some of the human biopsy gtr studies have demonstrated new attachment level with bone fill 67. the most common periodontal pathogens to inoculate on the gtr membrane are a. actinomycetemcomitans and p. gingivalis 8. a clinical study 9 reported that within three minutes of the procedure there is bacterial contamination of the gtr membrane.

metronidazole showed level of significance against p. gingivalis.discussionmicrobial colonization of the gtr membrane adversely affects the treatment outcomes of the periodontal treatment 9. attachment of the periodontal pathogens onto the gtr membrane may expedite the recurrence of periodontitis and loss of alveolar bone.

hence incorporating antimicrobial agents in the gtr membrane may help in preventing the surface colonization.several studies 10-12 have been reported that there is drastic reduction in colonization of periodontal pathogens on the gtr membrane and improvement in clinical sites followed by allopathic antimicrobial coating.

the gtr membrane was allowed to soak in the concentrated solution for 15 minutes and was dried for five minutes.microbial assayagar disc diffusion method was used to determine the antimicrobial activity of gtr membrane coated with 1 amoxicillin solution 1 metronidazole solution and 1 green coffee extract solution respectively in vitro.

green coffee extract showed no zone of inhibition against both the bacterial species.conclusion loading of commercially available antimicrobial agents onto gtr membrane can prevent its bacterial colonization leading to better treatment outcomes for periodontal regeneration.keywords amoxicillin aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans green coffee extract metronidazole porphyromonas gingivalisintroductionit has been well established that oral infections particularly perio- dontitis are associated with aerobic and anaerobic microbiota.

various other plant origin antibacterial agents should be tested and incorporated into non-surgical as well as surgical periodontaltherapy in order to avoid the side effects due to commercially available synthetic antimicrobial agents.conclusionvarious studies have documented that gtr membrane is one of the successful methods for periodontal regeneration but it is prone for bacterial contamination thereby impeding periodontal regeneration.

from the present study it can be concluded that usage of commercially available antimicrobial agents in such a low concentration can effectively reduce the number of periodontal pathogens colonizing the gtr membrane.acknowledgementsi would like to thank dr. kishore g bhat head of the department department of molecular biology and immunology maratha mandal's nathajirao g halgekar institute of dental sciences and research centre belgaum karnataka india for helping me in microbial assay of the study.references111213141516171819202122dowell p al-arrayed f adam s moran j. a comparative clinical study the use of human type i collagen with and without the addition of metronidazole in the gtr method of treatment of periodontal disease.

the conflict between usage of classical antibiotics and plant origin antimicrobial agents has recently been in the limelight.aim the aim of this study was to assess the in vitro antimicrobial activity of amoxicillin metronidazole and green coffee extract loaded onto gtr membrane against periodonto-pathogens.materials and methods pure form of amoxicillin metronidazole and green coffee extract were obtained.

to further evaluate the efficacy of green coffee extract higher concentrations of extract should have been tested for the present study.the present in vitro study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of 1 amoxicillin 1 metronidazole and 1 green coffee extract loaded onto gtr membrane against a. actinomycetemcomitans and p. gingivalis.

previous studies of loadingtetracycline and amoxicillin on gtr membrane have shown to drastically reduce the adherence of a. actinomycetemcomitans and streptococcus mutans 14.the present study consists of loading minimal concentration of antimicrobial agents onto reconstituted type-i collagen gtr membranes and evaluating its antimicrobial efficacy on a. actinomycetemcomitans and p. gingivalis.

nearly 10 ml of 1 amoxicillin 1 metronidazole and 1 green coffee extract solution was poured into sterile petridishes respectively in which the gtr membrane was placed.

the ideology behind the present study was to check the antimicrobial property of various allopathic and herbal antimicrobial agents against periodontogenic pathogens at a minimal concentration of 1. this is one of its kind studies in which green coffee extract was loaded onto the gtr membrane to evaluate its antimicrobial activity against a. actinomycetemcomitans and p. gingivalis.amoxicillin belongs to the family of b-lactam antibiotics 15. amoxicillin exhibits its antimicrobial property by inhibiting the cross linkage between linear peptidoglycan polymer chains and hence preventing the formation of bacterial cell wall synthesis 15. according to renvert s et al.

as green coffee extract showed negative results hence higher concentrations of the extract should have been tested for their efficacy by loading onto the gtr membrane.

efficacy of natural and allopathic antimicrobial agents incorporated onto guided tissue regeneration membrane against periodontal pathogens an in vitro studyneha mehrotra1 ajay reddy palle2 rajani kumar gedela3 sanjay vasudevan4doi 10.7860jcdr201723851.9227abstractintroduction periodontal disease is one of the most prevalent afflictions worldwide.

the quest for developing herbal remedies with extensive array of antimicrobial properties without the side effects of synthetic medications is still going on for treating periodontal disease 26. lately green coffee extract has received much attention amid all the various herbal products because of its antimicrobial properties against both gram-positive as well as gram-negative organisms 27. there are various components of coffee that have been documented to show antimicrobial properties these include volatile and nonvolatile organic acids caffeine phenols and aromatic compounds.

