in 2003 gpr41 and gpr43 were deorphanised as scfa receptors 7-9. anti-inflammatory functions refer to the property of scfas modulate immune cell chemotaxis adhesion production of reactive oxygen species and cytokines 10 11. butyrate elicits anti- inflammatory effects via inhibition of interleukin il-12 and upregulation of il-10 in human mono- cytes 12 inhibition of the tumor necrosis factor tnf-a-induced nuclear translocation of the proin- flammatory nuclear transcription factor-kb nf-kb in human colorectal adenocarcinoma ht-29 cell line 13 induction of colonic regulatory t cells dif- ferentiation which suppresses the inflammatory and allergic response 14. however in sites of anaerobic bacteria infection or after the loss of intestinal epi- thelial integrity high concentrations of scfas may lead to neutrophil accumulation and amplification of the inflammatory process 11.significant violations in gut and the whole body microecology often occur after using antibiotics and other chemotherapeutic agents that occupied a great place in modern medical practice 15. there is the increasing concern that antibiotic exposure may have long-term consequences for immune tolerance of the gastrointestinal tract and susceptibility to pathogens contributing to the development of inflammatory diseases 16. the effect of antibiotic therapy on the fecal scfas level has been studied before 17-19 but most studies were conducted during or immedi- ately after antibiotics administration.

scfas are saturated aliphatic organic acids that consist of one to six carbons of which acetate c2 propionate c3 and butyrate c4 are most abundant 95. acetate propionate and butyrate are present in an approximate molar ratio of 602020 in the colon and stool 4. depending on the diet the total maxi- mum concentration of scfas decreases from 70 to 140 mm in the proximal colon from 20 to 70 mm in the distal colon 5.these metabolites especially butyrate serve as an important source of energy for the intestinal epi- thelial cells providing about 60-70 of their energy demand.

moreo- ver the disruption of biochemical signaling between microbiota and host can profoundly affect inflamma- tory response leading to unresolving inflammation in the models of colitis arthritis and asthma 28. it should be noted that the decrease of butyrate-pro- ducing bacteria and scfas level detected in feces of patients with ulcerative colitis indicated the role of intestinal dysbiosis and decrease of butyrate during colitis development 29. similar changes were also observed in patients with nosocomial diarrhea and clostridium difficile-associated colitis 30. a reduc- tion in fecal butyrate has been found in patients with colorectal adenocarcinoma 31.acetic propionic and butyric acids are most important among scfas.

these changes promote activation of proinflammatory genes transcription and cytokines synthesis 35. thus observed changes may indicate a trend toward a proinflammatory condition in the colon.allowing for the fact that dysbiotic disturbance of mucosal microbiota were observed for a long time after ceftriaxone administration 27 we tested how these changes affect the scfas level in rat's feces.concentration of the short-chain fatty acids scfas in rats in 1 and 56 days after ceftriaxone 300 mgkg i.m.

conclusion antibiotic therapy induced long-term disturbance in colonic microbiota metabolic activity.k e y w o r d s antibiotics ceftriaxone colon short-chain fatty acids scfas.he interchange of low molecular weight me- tabolites between gut microorganisms and macroorganism have attracted a lot of at-tention during last years 1-3. the gut microbiota affects predominantly host physiology by the pro- duction of short-chain fatty acids scfas.

diishli vis-novku shcho antibakterial'na terapiia sprichiniuie trivale porushennia metabolichnoyi aktivnosti mikrobioti tovstoyi kishki.k l iu ch o v i s l o v a antibiotiki tseftri- akson tovsta kishka korotkolantsiugovi zhirni kisloti klzhk.fekal'nye korotkotsepochechnye zhirnye kisloty v raznye sroki posle vvedeniia tseftriaksona krysamiu.

2003 27813 11312-11319.le poul e loison c struyf s springael jy lannoy v decobecq me brezillon s dupriez v vassart g van damme j parmentier m detheux m. functional characterization of human receptors for short chain fatty acids and their role in polymorphonuclear cell activation.

2009 4617268 1282-1286.machiels k joossens m sabino j de preter v arijs i eeckhaut v ballet v claes k van immerseel f verbeke k ferrante m verhaegen j rutgeerts p vermeire s. a decrease of the butyrate-producing species roseburia hominis and faecalibacterium prausnitzii defines dysbiosis in patients with ulcerative colitis.

according to the fact that scfas are the main energy substrates for the enterocytes scfas loss might lead to disturbance of mucosal cells homeostasis in the rat colon.

zabolotny institute of microbiology and virology national academy of sciences of ukraine kyiv3bogomolets national medical university kyiv ukraine e-mailshort-chain fatty acids scfas are major products of the microbial fermentation of dietary fiber in the colon.

one day after ceftriaxone withdrawal the concentrations of acetic propionic butyric acids and total scfas were decreased 2.9- 13.8- 8.5- 4.8-fold p  0.05 respectively.

data handling was carried out with chem station data analysis d.01.02.16 software.the scfas were identified on chromatograms by their specific retention times of standard scfa mixture of acetic propionic i-butyric n-butyricn-valeric i-valeric n-caproic acids sigma-aldrich germany under the above gc conditions.

one day after ceftriaxone withdrawal the total concentration of the fecal scfas ss2-s6 was de- creased 4.8-fold r  0.05 table.concentrations of acetic propionic and bu- tyric acids were 2.9- 13.8- and 8.5-fold decreasedab62.552.041.531.0210.500controlceftriaxone in 1 day after withdrawalcontrolceftriaxone in 14 days after withdrawalfig.

nedavni doslidzhennia pokazali shcho tsi produkti mikrobnogo metabolizmu v kishechniku diiut' iak signal'ni molekuli vplivaiut' na energetich- nii gomeostaz organizmu khaziayina ta vidigraiut' golovnu rol' v imunologichnii vidpovidi.

sdelan vyvod o tom chto antibak- terial'naia terapiia vyzyvaet dlitel'noe naru- shenie metabolicheskoi aktivnosti mikrobioty tolstoi kishki.k l iu ch e v y e s l o v a antibiotiki tsef- triakson tolstaia kishka korotkotsepochechnye zhirnye kisloty ktszhk.referencesmathewson nd jenq r mathew av koenigsknecht m hanash a toubai t oravecz- wilson k wu sr sun y rossi c fujiwara h byun j shono y lindemans c calafiore m schmidt tc honda k young vb pennathur s van den brink m reddy p. gut microbiome- derived metabolites modulate intestinal epithelial cell damage and mitigate graft-versus- host disease.

