hence we found that b. pseudomallei induces actin polymerization in infected a549 human lung epithelial cells.infected a549 lung epithelial cells using 3d-laser scanning confocal microscopy lscm and immunofluorescence microscopy confirmed the intranuclear localization of b. pseudomalleithe presence of b. pseudomallei within the nucleoplasm needs to be further confirmed as a real event and not due to artefacts or effect of sectioning and processing of the samples.intracellular survival of b. pseudomallei k96243 in a549 human lung epithelial cells determined following 4 8 and 12 hours of infection.doi10.1371journal.pntd.0005241.g002therefore we set forth to further confirm the encroachment of nucleoplasm of living intact cells by b. pseudomallei.

at each time point the infected monolayers were washed and lysed using 0.25 triton x-100 and the intracellular bacteria released were enumerated by plating the serial dilution of the lysate on nutri- ent agar.lscm of a549 cells infected with b. pseudomalleithe a549 cells were maintained in roswell park memorial institute rpmi 1640 medium supplemented with 10 foetal bovine serum fbs sigma usa 1mm penicillin-streptomy- cin flowlabs australia 2mm glutamine flowlabs australia and the cells were grown in 5 co2 incubator at 37c.

subsequently the cells were infected with b. pseudomallei k96243 at an moi of 110 for two hours after which the cells were washed with pbs 3x and the extracellular bacteria were killed by incubating the cells for two hours using imipenem 250mgml plus ceftazidime 250mg ml cocktail in rpmi 1640 medium.

hence we asked if b. pseudomallei could be traf- ficked into the nucleus as a survival strategy.resultstransmission electron microscopy tem investigations revealed intranuclear localization of b. pseudomallei in cells of infected human lung and guinea pig spleen tissuesingress and egress of b. pseudomallei from the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells reportedly induces actin rearrangement .

initial invasion and intracellular survival assays were performed to determine the ability of b. pseudomallei to invade and survive intracellularly in a549 cells followed by lscm observation of these cells.

the conundrum as to whether the bacterium invades the nucleus to a obtain a protective environment from degeneration of host cells b evade from intrinsic restriction factors and c render 'pass-over' to newer cells in order for its prolonged survival within the host remains a gray area of investigation.

briefly confluent monolayers of human lung epithelial cells a549 atcc ccl-185 5 x 105 cells in a 24-wells tissue culture plate were infected with the bacterial inocu- lum at a multiplicity of infection moi of 110. subsequently the plates were incubated for 2 hours at 37c in 5 co2 environment to allow invasion.

following this the cells were washed with 3x pbs and counterstained with dapi molecular probes oregon usa for five minutes a stain for delineating the nucleus of eukaryotic cells or dapi followed by rhodamine-conjugated phalloidin molecular probes oregon usa to stain actin fibers.

the cells were washed once again with 3x pbs mounted with glyceryl gel and the stained cells were observed using a lscm with tcs sp5 imaging system and a dmi 6000b microscope leica germany.

however it still remains a tip of the ice- berg as to where persistent pathogens namely burkholderia pseudomallei b. pseudomallei residehide to escape from host immune sensors and antimicrobial pressure.methodswe used transmission electron microscopy tem to investigate post-mortem tissue sec- tions of patients with clinical melioidosis to identify the localisation of a recently identified gut microbiome b. pseudomallei within host cells.

the intranuclear presence of b. pseudomal- lei was confirmed using transmission electron microscopy tem of experimentally infected guinea pig spleen tissues and live z-stack and imagej analysis of fluorescence micros- copy analysis of in vitro infection of a549 human lung epithelial cells.resultstem investigations revealed intranuclear localization of b. pseudomallei in cells of infected human lung and guinea pig spleen tissues.

we also found that b. pseudomallei induced actin polymerization following infection of a549 human lung epithelial cells.

infected a549 lung epithelial cells using 3d-laser scanning confocal microscopy lscm and immunofluo- rescence microscopy confirmed the intranuclear localization of b. pseudomallei.conclusionb.

pseudomallei was found within the nuclear compartment of host cells.

a broad array of bacterial and viral target proteins are known to co-localize in the perinuclear   and nuclear regions  of host cells.

