univariate associations between collected predictor variables and clostridium difficile-infection.1 all patients that were administered another antibiotics as well removed2 only regular use 5 or more days per week was considered statistically significant associationdoi10.1371journal.pone.0169386.t002 multivariate logistic regression models determining associations between the regular use of any gaba-modulator and cdi as well as cdi treated with antibiotics.1 the p-value was 0.1 in the final model and thus the predictor was removed.doi10.1371journal.pone.0169386.t003 final multivariate logistic regression models determining the associations between the regular use of zolpidem and cdi as well as cdi treated with antibiotics.doi10.1371journal.pone.0169386.t004the association between regular zolpidem use and cdi as well as cdi that received antibi- otic treatment was assessed separately.

in a model including only patients with no history of depression n  473 81 of the pop- ulation regular zolpidem use was significantly associated with cdi or 5.58 95 ci 1.17-p  0.031 model au-roc  0.76 and with cdi that needed treatment or 6.57 95 ci 1.33-32.50 p  0.021 model auc-roc 0.79. in a model including only patients with his- tory of depression n  111 19 of the population regular zolpidem use was not associated with cdi or 1.18 95 ci 0.23-5.91 p  0.842 model au-roc  0.73 or cdi that needed treatment or 0.69 95 ci 0.06-7.47 p  0.760 model au-roc  0.78. the hosmer-leme- show test for goodness of fit indicated that all models had acceptable fit.propensity score regressiona propensity score for the use of zolpidem was created using potential confounders and inter- action variables  added as a covariate in a regression model evaluating the associa- tion between cdi development and regular zolpidem use.

four covariates were significantly associated with cdi in the models nursing home residency recent cephalosporin use recent clindamy- cin use and recent fluoroquinolone use.

in the present study we investigated the association between gaba-modulating pharmaceuticals and cdi development.methodsin july-december 2013 we performed a matched retrospective case-control study in skane county sweden to assess the association between the use of gaba-modulators defined as regular use of at least one of the following zolpidem zopiclone benzodiaze- pines gabapentin pregabalin or baclofen and cdi.

the regular use of any gaba-mod- ulator was not associated with cdi or  1.07 95ci 0.69-1.66 p  0.76. the association between regular use of the selective gaba-agonist zolpidem and cdi trended towards sig- nificance or  2.31 95ci 0.91-5.86 p  0.078. these associations remained when only cases treated with antibiotics were included.

two models assessing the association between the use of any gaba modulator defined as regular use of at least one of the included gaba-modula- tors zolpidem zopiclone benzodiazepines gabapentin pregabalin and baclofen and cdi were fitted with cdi and with cdi that needed antibiotic treatment.

since the use of zolpidem was significantly associated with cdi in a univariate model the multivariate cdi models above were also tested for the association with regular use of zol- pidem.

the multivari- ate model assessing the association between zolpidem use and cdi was stratified on individu- als with and without history of depression since history of depression was suggested as an effect modifier in the association between zolpidem use and cdi .

among non-anti- biotic pharmaceuticals no association was seen between the regular use of gaba-modulators from the included drugs and cdi when grouped together but a significant association between regular use of zolpidem and cdi was identified.

however the predictors in this analysis did not predict recurrence well and the final model  had poor discriminatory accuracy au-roc 0.60. there was no evidence of an association between the use of any gaba-modulator and cdi recurrence.discussionin this matched retrospective case-control study we did not identify an association between the regular use of a gaba-modulator and cdi.

when patients with a recent history of depression were excluded from the analysis regular zolpidem use was identified as a statistically significant risk factor for cdi whereas zolpidem use had no effect on individuals diagnosed with depression.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data are within the paper and its supporting information files.funding research reported in the publication was supported by national institute of diabetes digestive and kidney disease niddk r21 dk096323-01 and the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases r01 niaid ai10094001 and u01 ai124290-01 ts.research articlethe association between gaba-modulators and clostridium difficile infection - a matched retrospective case-control studyjonathan stro m1 johan tham1 fredrik mansson1 jonas ahl1 tor c. savidge23 sara m. dann4 fredrik resman1infectious diseases unit department of translational medicine lund university malmo  swedendepartment of pathology and immunology baylor college of medicine houston texas united states of america 3 texas children's microbiome center texas children's hospital houston texas united states of america 4 department of internal medicine university of texas medical branch galveston texas united states of america abstractobjectiverecently metabolomics studies have suggested that the neurotransmitter g-amino butyric acid gaba may modulate c. difficile infection cdi pathogenesis.

in a multivariate regression model only recent antibiotic use clindamycin cephalosporins and fluoroquinolones and nursing home residency was significantly associated with cdi.

the use of antibiotics that disrupt the gastrointestinal flora is the most important risk factor for cdi development with the vast majority of cdi cases preceded by antibiotic treatment .

although most gaba ligands are non-specific and bind several receptor isoforms some medications such as the hypnotic agent zolpidem are selective for certain gabaa-receptor isoforms .the purpose of this study was to investigate the association between gaba-modulating drug use and cdi through a retrospective matched case-control design.materials and methodsstudy settingthe study was performed in skane county sweden population approx.

