in fact antigens probiotics and probiotic-derived products taken up by m cells are delivered to antigen pre- senting cells apcs mainly macrophages and dendritic cells dcs.

 openreceived 13 july 2016accepted 30 november 2016published 09 january 2017weissella cibaria wikim28 ameliorates atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions by inducing tolerogenic dendritic cells and regulatory t cells in balbc miceseul ki lim1 min-sung kwon1 jieun lee1young joon oh1 ja-young jang1 jong-hee lee1 hae woong park2young-do nam3 myung-ji seo4 seong woon roh5  hak-jong choi1the occurrence of atopic dermatitis ad a chronic inflammatory skin disease has been increasing steadily in children and adults in recent decades.

moreover the intake of w. cibaria wikim28 increased the proportion of cd4cd25foxp3 regulatory t treg cells in mesenteric lymph nodes mlns and il-10 levels in polyclonally stimulated mln cells.

the rate of degranulating or degranulated mast cells indicated by the arrow in red among total mast cells was analyzed.

as antigen-presenting cells dcs allow for enhanced activation of t cells and determination of the th1th2 polarization upon stimulation.

apoptotic cell administration enhances pancreatic islet engraftment by induction of regulatory t cells and tolerogenic dendritic cells.

weissella cibaria wikim28 ameliorates atopic dermatitis-like skin lesions by inducing tolerogenic dendritic cells and regulatory t cells in balbc mice.

furthermore the production of type 2 helper t th2 cytokines such as interleukin il-4 il-5 and il-13 decreased in peripheral lymph node cells.

on the basis of isolation from human faces acid tolerance and attachment to intestinal epithelial cells weissella cibaria strains have been proposed as potential probiotics.

d paraffin-embedded sections of skin samples from ad mice were stained with toluidine blue and the number of mast cells indicated by the arrow in black was countedbar  100 mm.

recently regulatory t cells tregs in ad have been estimated to play an essential role in controlling immune tolerance by balancing the immune response in inflammation and are characterized by the dominant induction of forkhead box protein 3 foxp3.

the schematic experimental procedure is described in we found that the oral administration of w. cibaria wikim28 significantlyfigure 2. oral administration of w. cibaria wikim28 decreases the secretion of il-4 il-5 and il-13 and increased the production of il-10 by pln cells of ad-induced mice.

after pln cells were treated with anti-cd3cd28 mabs for 24 h the production of il-4 il-5il-13 b il-10 c and ifn-g d in the supernatant was detected by the cytometric bead array kit.

similar effects were also observed on hematoxylin and eosin he staining of sections and local infil- tration of mast cells in ad-induced dorsal skin lesions.

edema and dense infiltration of mast cells occur in the skin layers of ad mouse models.

