66 No 2 245-250ORIGINAL PAPERIn vitro Interaction between Fumonisin B1 and the Intestinal Microflora of PigsHUU ANH DANG1 ATTILA ZSOLNAI1 MELINDA KOVACS1 2 ISTVAN BORS2 ANDRAS BONAI1 BRIGITTA BOTA2 and JUDIT SZABO-FODOR21 Kaposvar University Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences Kaposvar Hungary2 MTA-KE Mycotoxins in the Food Chain Research Group Kaposvar University Kaposvar Hungary Submitted 21 November 2016 and 12 January 2017 acceptedA bs t rac tThe caecal chyme of pigs was incubated anaerobically in McDougall buffer with and without fumonisin B1 5 ugml for 0 24 and 48 h. The plate count agar technique was applied for enumerating the amount of bacteria including aerobic anaerobic bacteria coliform Escherichia coli and Lactobacillus sp.

The log10 ofTable IIINumber of bacteria in the pigs' caecal chyme incubated with experimental group and without control 1 group fumonisin B1 measured by culturing log10 CFU1g means -SD.1CFU colony forming unita b c significant P 0.01 difference between incubation times within groups.Table IVNumber of bacteria in the pigs' caecal chyme incubated with experimental group and without control 1 group fumonisin B1 measured by QPCR log10 copies numberg means -SD.a b significant P 0.05 difference between incubation times within groups.Lactobacillus Bacteroides and Prevotella in control 1 and experimental groups augmented after 24 h incu- bation P  0.05.

The comparative means were performed by Independent Samples t-Test one- way ANOVA with Tukey post-hoc test and non-para- metric Kruskal-Wallis test if the normal distribution was not presented.Results and DiscussionEffect of microflora on fumonisin B1.

The effectof fumonisin B1 on the growth of bacteria.

Fumonisin B1 and hydrolysed fumonisin B1 concentration were analysed by liquid chromatograghy - mass spectrometry.

These results indicate that fumonisin B1 can be metabolised by caecal microbiota in pigs though the number of studied bacteria did not change.K e y w o r d s caecal microbiota fumonisin B1 intestinal microflora pigIntroductionThe fumonisins are known as important mycotoxins produced mostly by several Fusarium species which are found mainly in maize and its products all over the world.

Detection was performed using selected ion monitoring SIM mode.The efficiency of FB1 conversion to fully hydrolysed FB1 HFB1 was calculated on the basis of the mole-cular weight of the compounds FB1 721 gmol HFB1 405 gmol and described as belowHydrolysed fumonisin B1 molg x 721 gmol 405 gmol x Fumonisin B1 molgStatistical analysis.

The quantitative polymerase chain reaction was also performed to estimate the number of copies of the total bacteria Lactobacillus Bacteroides and Prevotella.

The gut microbiota balance should be concerned as a crucial factor keeping body health.

The bottles were put in anaerobic plastic bags with Anaerocult gas generator Merck Darmstadt Germany.

