biofilm-bound cells were assumed to be non-motile no self-propelling force no tumbling torque.the dynamics of extracellular potassium ion field were implemented via a reaction-diffusion model where the biofilm cells played the role of sources and sinks of potassium periodicallyhumphries et al.page 128here ka is the extracellular potassium concentration and rj is the location of the j-th cell ft is the periodic function describing periodic excretion with rate ak and absorption with rate-bkke cycles of extracellular potassium by the biofilm cells and dk is the potassium diffusion constant.each simulated motile cell carried a set of equations 1-7 describing its membrane potential dynamics in response to the local extracellular potassium concentration.

1977 miller  koshland 1980. the relationship between extracellular potassium membrane potential and tumbling frequency of motile cells suggests a possible mechanism for the observed attraction of motile cells to biofilms.the role of the potassium ion channel in motile cell attractionto determine the mechanism of motile cell attraction we first confirmed that potassium ion channel activity in the biofilm generates the extracellular potassium signal that results in motile cell attraction.

bottom the computational model encompassing 1 spatiotemporal reaction-diffusion model for the extracellular potassium ke dynamics 2humphries et al.page 25intracellular electrophysiological model for the cell membrane potential v ion channel state n metabolic stress s intracellular potassium ki and energy needed to drive the flagellar motor e we can think of this energy as pmf or atp 3 discrete biomechanical model for individual cell motion influenced by their internal motility and interaction with other cells.

specifically the function fits a least-squares line to the data and subtracts this linear trend from the data.the motile cell response reported in figure 3d was obtained by averaging the intensities of motile cell attraction peaks from multiple experiments to obtain a single motile cell response measurement.

for all these measurements the exact value of n is presented in the corresponding figure legend and represents the number of independent experiments of each genetic background used.motile cell density lag and oscillation period measurements the motile cell density lag measurements reported in figure 1d and figure 6c were obtained using the peak of motile cell attraction and biofilm tht.

the python based cell tracking software trackpy and the anaconda python platform trackpy authors 2016 continuum analytics 2016 were used to track single cell movement over time and compile this movement into trajectories for each tracked cell.

using this model we computed how a change in extracellular potassium altered the cell's membrane potential and how this in turn affected the tumbling probability of each motile cell fig.

in addition to the inlet used to flow in the motile cell suspension a potassium concentration gradient could be produced by flowing msgg supplemented with 300 mm kcl from the inlet furthest from the biofilm.time-lapse microscopy growth of biofilms was tracked using phase contrast microscopy and motile cell behavior was tracked by fluorescence microscopy of the phyp-mkate2 reporter only present in motile cells.

indeed if a cell swims up the gradient it experiences rising levels of potassium and strongly hyperpolarizes thus increasing the mean proton motive force and the level of energy in the cell.

together these results show that electrical oscillations generated by the biofilm are correlated in time with periodic attraction of distant motile cells to the biofilm.sufficiency of extracellular potassium in directing cell motilitywe next asked whether the observed attraction of motile cells was due to changes in extracellular potassium generated during biofilm oscillations prindle et al.

these results demonstrate that changes in extracellular potassium gradients are sufficient to direct motile cell behavior.we then began to investigate the potential mechanism by which waves of extracellular potassium released by the biofilm could influence the motility of distant cells.

these results show that potassium ion channels in biofilm cells play an important role in generating the electrical signal that attracts motile cells.motile cell membrane potential influences attraction to biofilmswe speculated that attraction of motile cells depends not only on the signal emitted by the biofilm but also the sensitivity of motile cells to the potassium signal.

specifically the sensitivity to changes in extracellular potassium depends on the resting membrane potential of the cell hille 2001. we anticipated that motile cells with a more negative resting membrane potential would be more sensitive to the potassium signals emitted by the biofilm.

the first term in the right hand side describes the change in membrane potential by potassium ions escaping the cell through potassium ion channels while the second term describes the leak current.

d plot of average peak biofilm signal vs. average peak motile cell response for wt gray circle compared to dtrka purple circle and dktra yellow circle mutants shows that reducing the amplitude of the potassium signal reduces attraction while increasing the sensitivity to the potassium signal increases attraction mean - st. dev.

