E Relative expression TPM of tsetse odorant binding protein-encoding genes in GmmWT larvae and their differential expression measure as fold-change in gene expression in GmmWT compared to GmmApo larvae.

Obp6 expression can be restored in GmmApo larvae when their symbiont-cured moms are fed a diet supplemented specif- ically with Wigglesworthia cell extracts  thus demonstrating that expression of this gene is stimulated by a Wigglesworthia derived molecules.

C Genes exhibiting significant differential expression measure as fold-change in gene expression in GmmWT compared to GmmApo larvae and a minimum TPM value of 1000.

Subsequent analysis of larval offspring from siRNA treated moms revealed that obp6 and lozenge expression was significantly reduced in siOBP6 compared to siGFP and siOBP6R larvae while serpent expression was similar in all individuals tested .

As such odorant molecules derived from tsetse and Drosophila enteric microbes could modulate the expression of obp6 and obp28a in the gut of larval flies thus serving as the signal that activates hematopoiesis.In larval tsetse Wigglesworthia is found exclusively within the gut-bacteriome axis and obp6 expression is restricted to this same environment.

Herein we demonstrate that the obligate mutualist Wigglesworthia up-regulates expression of odorant binding protein six in the gut of intrauterine tsetse larvae.

This process is necessary and sufficient to induce systemic expression of the hematopoietic RUNX transcription factor lozenge and the subsequent production of crystal cells which actuate the melanotic immune response in adult tsetse.

We also dem- onstrate that Drosophila's indigenous microbiota regulates expression of an orthologousfunctionally conserved OBP-encoding gene.

Our findings detail a newly characterized evolutionarily conserved component of a blood cell differentiation regulatory pathway that occurs in response to the presence of enteric symbionts.ResultsEnteric symbionts stimulate expression of odorant binding protein 6 in intrauterine tsetse larvaeDrosophila hematopoiesis occurs primarily during early larval development  .

RNA-seq analysis revealed that 1166 genes exhibited a differential expression profile in GmmWT compared to GmmApo larvae and approximately 76 of these genes were expressed at higher levels in GmmWT individuals  .

