in both studies human saliva had a stronger effect than artificial saliva possibly due to specific interactions between tannins and proteins in real saliva as these proteins are not included in artificial saliva.

it also considers the indirect impact of saliva such as changes of aroma diffusion through modification of the physicochemical properties of the food matrix.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.contentsintroduction212interactions between saliva components and aroma molecules213binding of aroma molecules to salivary proteins213aroma enzymatic conversion by human saliva214impact of oral microbiota on aroma release215potential sensory relevance215effect of saliva on aroma release from food matrix217conclusion219acknowledgements219references219introductionretronasal olfaction is a part of flavour together with taste and trigeminal sensation and it is a key factor driving food choices and acceptability.

in an in vivo experiment aiming at determining the relative contribution of the main food oral pro- cessing events in aroma release during cheese consumption it was found that aroma release was poorly linked to the composition of resting saliva but it was explained by the characteristics of stim- ulated saliva  emphasizing the importance of saliva composition and flow.

the authors proposed thatprotein-protein interactions could preclude the access to a part of the binding sites of the proteins modifying the total number of binding sites available for aroma molecules  .regarding differences between artificial and human saliva did not observe any significant difference on aldehyde release from rehydrated diced bell peppers in pres- ence of whole human saliva or artificial saliva  .

however proteomic investigations did not report the presence of aldose reductase in human saliva .thiols have been also reported to be sensitive to degradation in the presence of non-denatured human saliva while they are not affected by heated saliva suggesting that they are degraded by salivary enzymatic activity .

while these studies suggest an effect of saliva on aroma release using a dynamic mouth model system and monitoring aroma release in the few seconds after saliva addition did not observe any effect of artificial saliva on initial flavour release from solutions .

among the different physiological parame- ters involved the literature reports that saliva has various effects on vocs and therefore appears as a major actor impacting the perception of aroma.this article reviews how saliva takes part in aroma release considering both in vitro and in vivo approaches and how it may affect perception.

inter-individual variability of saliva impacts both the flow and the composition of saliva.

finally we will review how saliva can influence aroma release from food matrices through dilution or modification of the matrix or food bolus properties.interactions between saliva components and aroma moleculesbinding of aroma molecules to salivary proteinsproteins have demonstrated their ability to interact with aroma compounds and consequently to modify aroma release and per- ception .

in contrast demonstrated a stronger effect of human whole saliva than artificial saliva on ester release.

reported a stronger effect of human saliva compared to artificial saliva composed of mucin and alpha-amylase on the release of esters and the production of their acid forms.

these observations led to the conclusion that esters undergo hydrolysis in the presence of saliva which can be attributed to enzymatic activity of an esterase in whole saliva .

however adsorption desorption mechanism of aroma compounds ontofrom salivary components and production of odorant molecules from odorless precursor or by conversion of aroma molecules are mech- anisms likely to influence aroma perception in particular after swallowing.effect of saliva on aroma release from food matrixto deeply understand the effect of saliva on aroma perception it is important to consider the food systems in which aroma mole- cules are initially present.

concentrations of molecules in the different phases namely food saliva and air are characterized by two inter-related food-saliva and saliva-air equi- libria  consequently the dilution of aroma molecules in saliva directly affects their release to the oral cavity.

when artificial saliva was added to water oil emulsions hydrophilic compounds were preferentially diluted in saliva which is essentially made of water resulting in a lower release of these compounds in the air phase.

