organelles were almost normal in patients without infectious complications e. and those in surg group f. x20000 while organelles were swollen in patients with infectious complications g. and those in nact group h. x20000.prevotella ruminococcus and faecalibacterium were enriched in the surg group all of which were key bacteria that segregated the intestinal microbiota in the nact and surg group.discussionwe conducted this study to explore the hypothesis that nact could increase the incidence of postoperative infection in gastric cancer patients via damaging the intestinal barrier.in our study significantly higher incidence of infectious complications was shown in patients of the nact group this result is consistent with a previous study 8. while the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon is still unclear some reports suggested that damage of the immune system caused by using chemotherapy might be a key point 9 and multiple patient and animal experiments had confirmed the changes 11-13. however studies focused on other localized changes such as intestinal tissue damage caused by chemo drugs were scanty.

while in thepatients with infectious complications mucosal atrophy could be found and destruction of the villi were evident when contrasted with those without the same pattern was also observed between the surg group which exhibited lower incidence of infectious complications and nact group figure 1. chiu's grade scores are shown in table 4.differences in ultrastructural characteristicsthe ultrastructure of intestinal mucosa in patients with infectious complications and those in nact group were significantly changed when compared to the patients without infectious complications and those in surg group.

1-3 and nowadays most rct randomized control trial focus on the long-term effects that patients canbenefit from nact rather than the side effects it brings in the short term 3 4. although many studies which engaged in proving the safety of using nact exhibited no significant difference in overall postoperative complications 5-7 few papers mentioned that postoperative infections were more common in patientstable 1 the clinicopathological characteristics of enrolled patients statistically significant p0.05 bmi body mass index asa american society of anesthesiologists scores nrs2002nutrition risk screening 2002.who underwent nact 8. given that chemotherapy has been known to cause bone marrow suppression 9 and intestinal barrier structural damage 10 in animal models which might raise the risk for infection so we hypothesize that intestinal barrier injuries are the key point between preoperative chemotherapy and postoperative infections.in this paper we designed a cohort study which enrolled 90 patients to exam the specific correlation between nact and patients' postoperative infection- related complications.

34 therefore the changes of microbiota after nact can also annihilate the function of intestinal barrier and lumen pathological micro-organisms as well as their toxic products can invade the human systemic circulation to cause remote infectious diseases.one limitation of our study is that we detected bacteria that might be changed when patients received nact but the exploration of unknown mechanisms by which chemotherapy influence microbiota are surely needed by conducting animal or tissue based experiments in the future.in conclusion our study showed a higher incidence of postoperative infectious complications in patients who underwent nact and we used patients' intestinal mucosal samples to demonstrate that intestinal barrier dysfunction manifesting as damaged mucosal ultrastructure lower expression of tj protein and mucosal related dysbiosismight be critical in this process.

there were no significant differences with regard toage p  0.818 gender p  0.393 bmi p  0.091table 2 infectious complications based on clavien-dindo classificationin the brackets cases in nact groupcases in surg group.table 3 the difference of infectious complications between nact and surg groups mann-whiteny test statistically significant p  0.05table 4 grade of intestinal mucosal injury in different groups statistically significant p  0.05abbreviation infection patients with infectious complications in overall non-infection patients without infectious complications in overallnrs2002 p  0.333 asa score p  0.528 resectionrange p  0.113 intraoperative blood transfusion p  0.488 fever time p  0.072 and lauren's classification p  0.869 between the nact and surg groups.

the differences in postoperative infectious complications were determined between nact group in which patients received nact before surgery and surg group in which received surgical treatment immediately after diagnosis.

the result exhibited that the morbidity rate of infectious complications was elevated in the nact group compared with the surg group 43.3 vs. 13.3 and the incidence was significantly higher in patients who underwent nact table 3.histopathological examinationthe histopathological findings showed that the villi of the patients without infectious complications was intact and there was no epithelial disruption.

marked differences in observed species index 132 - 33 vs. 164 -47 p  0.001 chaodiversity index 147 - 36 vs. 184 -53 p  0.001 andshannon diversity index 1.88 - 0.25 vs. 2.15 -0.46 p  0.008 were detected between the nact group and surg group which demonstrated that both microbial diversity and evenness were significantly decreased in the nact group.for beta diversity analysis bray-curtis distance matrix and weighted unifrac distance matrix were adapted to analyze and compare the microflora and compositions between these two groups based on the otus 97similarity.

the first three principal component scores were 29 11 10 and 34 19 12 of explained variance respectively figure 4b and 4c.the dominant phyla of both groups wereproteobacteria 86.7-95.2 firmicutes 2.2-5.5bacteroidetes 2.2-5.9 and actinobacteria 0.4- 0.6. when comparing the relative abundance of phyla between the groups we found that higher abundance of proteobacteria was exhibited in the nact group than in the surg group 94.6 vs. 87.5 fdr  0.004 while firmicutes 2.3 vs. 4.9 fdr  0.016 bacteroidetes2.2 vs. 5.5 fdr  0.0046 and actinobacteria 0.37 vs. 0.54 fdr  0.043 were lower in the nact group.the microbial composition was different at the genus level.

patients who underwent radical resection right after diagnosis were assigned to the surg group and those who received nact before and then underwent radical surgery were assigned to the nact group.

and similarly the patients in the nact group also showed damaged intestinal barrier compared with those in surg group.

the intestines of patients without infectious complications a. and those in surg group b. showed normal villous architecture and glands with no obvious destruction while the intestinal mucosa injuries of patients with infectious complications c. and those in nact group d. were shown with massive epithelial lifting down the sides of the villi and ulceration at the villous tips.

considering the link between the integrity of tjs and normal intestinal barrier function as well as gut health these studies accompanied by ours demonstrated that tjs disruption might play an important role in the gut toxicity causedfigure 3 immunohistochemistry was used to analysis the expression of claudin-1 occludin and zo-1 in tissues and they all showed higher expression in patients without infectious complications and those in surg group than patients with infectious complications and those in nact group respectively.

in conclusion our study identifies a higher incidence of postoperative infection in gastric cancer patients who underwent nact treatment and these changes might be caused by a significant damage in the intestinal barrier as well as reduced probiotics.introductionneoadjuvant chemotherapy nact have been employed to improve the survival rate for cancer patients.

consequently chemotherapy via inflicting cytotoxic effects on intestinal epithelial cells could cause damage to intestinal barrier junctions consequently a disrupted gut barrier allows pathogenic bacterium to invade the human body and cause a higher incidence of infectious disease in the nact group.moreover disordered expression of tj proteins can also damage the tj structure disrupted protein- protein interactions accompanied by cell polarity loss and barrier destruction have been shown in several states of infections.

