the toxicity of ppcps to plants and their microbiota needs to be established as well as any toxic effects on herbivores including humans.ppcps in plants and food webs plants act as excellent tracers of global pollution because they are present in almost all areas of the planet and accumulate chemical compounds present in the atmosphere in the water with which they are irrigated and in the soil on which they grow.

3 c 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.table 1. examples of ppcps 259tddiffound in plants and the environment.accumulated and metabolized by plants and they can affect the plants their microbiota and the organisms feeding on them including humans.

opinionpharmaceuticals and personal-care products in plantsmireia bartronsand josep penuelaspharmaceuticals and personal-care products ppcps derived from agricultural263tddif urban and industrial areas accumulate in plants at concentrations ng to mg kg-1ddif126tthat can be toxic to the plants.

importantly the dietary intake of these ppcp-contaminated plants may also pose a risk to human health but currently little is known about the fate of ppcps in plants and their effect on or risk to the ecosystem.

ppcp removal from plants for wastewater treatment is incomplete and the dispersal of these compounds into the environment and accumulation in plants mostly occurs from irrigating with reused water and from the application of biosolids and manure to land.

plants accumulate ppcps at levels from ng to mg kg-1265tddif.at these concentrations ppcps can be toxic to plants plant microbiota and soil microorganisms that affect plant-microor- ganism symbiosis and nutrient cycling.

in this opinion article we propose that in-depth research on the use of plants as a monitoring device for assessing the use and environmental presence of ppcps is warranted.

several have been documented by using plants as natural bio- monitors of environmental pollution .

we present here the current limited knowledge on the life cycle of ppcps and their effects on the environment and call for further research on the use of plants as a monitoring device for assessing the fate and environmental presence of ppcps.

research is needed into the toxicity of these compounds for herbivores including humans as well as any toxic effects on plants and their microbiota.environmental sources and pathways of transport to plantsppcps in the environment are mainly associated with municipal agricultural and industrial wastewater sources and pathways .

diffuse pollution includes agricultural runoff from biosolids treated sewage sludge intended for agricultural use as a soil conditioner and manure storm-water and urban runoff leakage from reticulated urban sewage systems and diffuse aerial deposition.ppcpswastewater treatment plantreused irrigation waterbiosolidsmanureppcpsfood webplant uptake depends onphysicochemical properties of ppcpsplant physiologysoil propertiesexposure concentrationsplant microbiotasoilsoil microbiotafigure 1. main sources and fates of pharmaceuticals and personal-care products ppcps in plants and the environment.

human activities are the main source of ppcps in the environment and these are concentrated in municipal agricultural and industrial plants for treating wastewater.

ppcps affect plants their microbiota and the subsequent food-web organisms feeding on them including humans.the pathways of transport for ppcps through air water and soil are difficult to characterize owing to the scarcity of information on the fate and behavior in the environment of most of these compounds but will depend on their physicochemical properties such as solubility in water octanol-water partition coefficient kow surrogate for chemical partition between an organic and an aqueous phase and persistence as well as on the properties of the surrounding matrices such as water or soil .

dust or microplastics may also play an important role in the entry of non-volatile ppcps into the environment.ppcps reach plants predominantly from the use of reclaimed wastewater for irrigation the application of biosolids treated sewage sludge and manure for the fertilization of agricultural soils and from deposition from volatilized compounds.

the concentrations of ppcps in irrigated agro-ecosystems will accordingly increase as a resultof the presence and accumulation of ppcps in reused water also increasing the potential for plant uptake and subsequent human exposure by ingestion .biosolids are rich in minerals and organic compounds and are therefore added to soils to improve soil fertility restore organic matter improve the physicochemical and biological features of soils facilitate the resettlement of plants and restore altered communities .

