pubmed .vahedi h merat s rashidioon a ghoddoosi a malekzadeh r. the effect of fluoxetine in patients with pain and constipation- predominant irritable bowel syndrome a double-blind randomized- controlled study.

the selective serotonin re- uptake inhibitor fluoxetine does not change rectal sensitivity and symptoms in patients with irritable bowel syndrome a double blind randomized placebo-controlled study.

citalopram provides little or no benefit in nonde- pressed patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

pubmed .lee kj kim jh cho sw. gabapentin reduces rectal mechanosensi-tivity and increases rectal compliance in patients with diarrhoea- predominant irritable bowel syndrome.

effect of a second-generation alpha2delta ligand pregabalin on visceral sensation in hypersensitive patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

clinical endoscopical and morphological efficacy of mesalazine in patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

in light of the severe side effects and moderate benefits narcotics should not be prescribed to ibs patients with chronic visceral pain.benzodiazepines that are effective in treating psychi- atric disorders are also commonly used for ibs patients as both type of disorders often co-exist.

so far three drugs of this category are available for ibs patients which are all 5-ht3 receptor antagonists.alosetron is one of the 5-ht3 receptor antagonists for treating ibs-d patients.

from another large scaled clinical trial on 120 ibs- d patients ondansetron significantly improved stool con- sistency increased gi transit time and relieved urgency and intestinal bloating in many ibs-d patients.

however common side ef- fects of eluxadoline include constipation  especially in elderly patients with a higher rate of comorbid hep- aticbiliary tract disease .chloride channel activatorlubiprostone is a chloride channel activator approved by the fda for treating female ibs-c patients   which acts locally on the apical membrane of epithelial cells in the gastrointestinal lumen  .

mesalamine reportedly improved the global symptoms in a small trial of 20 patients with ibs  and reduced fecal bacterial counts in a separate trial on 12 ibs-d patients .

effect of cromoglycate in treat- ing ibs-d patients with food intolerance was supported by a clinical study on 66 ibs-d patients selected from 120 ibs- d population showing concomitant symptoms of food in- tolerance .

pain arising from the viscera is the cardinal symptom of patients with irritable bowel syn- drome ibs a prevalent disease afflicting 10 - 20  of the world population -.

reversal of visceral and cu- taneous hyperalgesia by local rectal anesthesia in irritable bowel syn- drome ibs patients.

intestinal permeability in irritable bowel syn- drome patients effects of nsaids.

