4 t-test results P  0.047 for pre-experiment ants vs. ants on carbohydrate-rich diet P  0.048 for pre-experiment ants vs. ants on pro- tein-rich diet.

In addition the presence ofthese mixed community types showed a strong correla- tion with relative 16S rRNA band intensities all were found exclusively in ants with 0.77 relative 16S rRNA band intensity scores while ants scoring above this value possessed communities dominated mostly by sin- gle taxa Fig.

Our frequent failure to amplify 16S rRNA from Argentine ants appears instead to be part of an emerging phenomenon across the ants Rubin et al.

Variance was high for introduced Argen- tine ants in Rice Canyon and in ants fed in the labora- tory on experimental diets.

In contrast variance was generally low with some outliers for field-caught Argentine ants from their native range and for the small number of surveyed introduced ants from California when reared under standard laboratory conditions Fig.

Thus while most Argentine ants have few bacteria there are several strong exceptions under both natural and artificial con- ditions.Functional analysisTo infer the potential functions of common bacteria from Argentine ants we utilized published genomes from close relatives addressing whether these microbes encoded intact pathways for nitrogen metabolism.

So in addition to a lack of support for symbiont-driven nitrogen-provisioning our findings argue against wholesale changes in symbiosis with invasion and changing L. humile ecology.Stability of symbioses between Argentine ants and their microbesClose relatedness between the dominant microbes of Argentine ants and those in other habitats clearly argue against long-term specialization.

At this point however we cannot rule out the possibility that these ants regularly acquire related bacterial strains from the environment and that these bacteria while symbiotic are not solely confined to the guts of Argentine ants.

Might large masses of gut bacteria then represent one strategy in a series of trade-offs that ants navigate to meet the chal- lenges imposed by natureBeyond the ants it is worth noting that other insectsshow variability in microbial biomass and that some including honeybee larvae Martinson et al.

Might the pre- sumably lowered N-requirement be a key to these ants so successfully exploiting their new dietsAnother area of needed study relates to the impacts of recurring symbionts on L. humile and hence their importance in the global invasions of Argentine ants.

