41. the same authors demonstrated that constipation treatment results in the disappearance of recurrent urinary tract infections in all patients who had no anatomical abnormality of the urinary tract 41. what about gram negatives cai et al.

the aim of the present manuscript is to review the published data about the role of nutraceuticals and phytotherapy in the management of patients affected by recurrent uti and also to address compounds that can modify the patient's related risk fac- tors and improve the treatment outcome.state of the artinternational guidelines recommendationsthe latest version of european association of urology eau guidelines on urological infections states that there are many non-antimicrobial measures for preven- tion of recurrent utis but only a few of them are basedon well designed studies which are needed to make evi- dence-based recommendations 18. in particular eau guidelines highlight that there is no convincing benefit for lactobacillus products or cranberry extracts as pro- phylaxis of recurrent uti 18. the scottish intercollegiate guidelines network confirmed the recommendations from the eau guidelines highlighting that cranberry products juice tablets capsules are not standardized and the concentrations of active ingredients are not known hence the concentration may also fluctuate between batches of the same product 19. there is no evidence to support the effectiveness of cranberry prod- ucts for treating symptomatic episodes of uti 19. the society of obstetricians and gynaecologists of canadas guidelines suggest to inform the patients about the effi- cacy of cranberry products in reducing recurrent urinary tract infections ia 20. moreover they suggest to not use probiotics and vaccines due to lack of demonstrated efficacy ii-2c 20.take home messageinternational guidelines agree that there is no convinc- ing benefit for the use of nutraceuticals andor phy- totherapy as prophylaxis of recurrent utis.new rcts are needed.actual scenarioalternative non-antibiotic measurescontemporary reviews identify four alternative com- pounds for non-antibiotic management of recurrent utiscranberryprobioticschinese herbal medicined-mannosecranberry extractsa cochrane review from 2008 concluded that cranberry products significantly reduced the incidence of utis at 12 months rr 0.65 95 ci 0.46-0.90 compared with placebocontrol in women with recurrent utis 21. in a more recent cochrane review it was concluded that cran- berry products did not significantly reduce the occur- rence of symptomatic uti in women with recurrent utis 14. the changed view is based on the inclusion of two additional trials in their meta-analysis 14. in these two rcts the effectiveness of cranberry extract was com- pared with low-dose antibiotic prophylaxis 14. mcmurdo et al.

2014 21929-34.loening-baucke v. urinary incontinence and urinary tract infection and their resolution with treatment of chronic constipation of childhood.

a tailored approach according to bacterial characteristics and the patient risk factors profile is a promising option.key words nutraceuticals phytotherapy urinary tract infections.submitted 13 january 2017 accepted 28 january 2017no conflict of interest declared.common community-acquired infectious diseases with annual costs estimated to be higher than 1.5 billion in the united states 1-2. the impact on public health is significant due to the high recurrence rate and the effect on patients' quality of life 4. the mortality rate must also be taken into account reported to be as high as 1 in men and 3 in women due to development of pyelonephritis and urosepsis.

developed and vali- dated a nomogram that accurately predicts the recur- rence risk of urinary tract infection at 12 months and which can assist in identifying women at high risk of symptomatic recurrence that can be suitable candidates for a prophylactic strategy 40. in this model they found the following independent predictors of uti recurrence number of sexual partners bowel function type of pathogens isolated gram-positivenegative hormonal status number of uti recurrences and previous treat- ment of asymptomatic bacteriuria 40. in this model they excluded use of food supplements because of the high variability of products used.

the economic burden of urinary tract infections in women visiting general practices in france a cross-sectional survey.

the role of asymptomatic bacteriuria in young women with recurrent urinary tract infections to treat or not to treat clin infect dis.

asymptomatic bacteriuria treat- ment is associated with a higher prevalence of antibiotic resistant strains in women with urinary tract infections.

increased urothelial cell apoptosis and chronic inflammation are associated with recurrent urinary tract infection in women plos one.

chinese herbal medicine for treating recurrent urinary tract infections in women.

prospective cohort study of microbial and inflammatory events immediately preceding escherichia coli recurrent urinary tract infection in women.

cranberry or trimetho- prim for the prevention of recurrent urinary tract infections a ran- domized controlled trial in older women.

cranberries vs. antibiotics to prevent urinary tract infections a randomized dou- ble-blind noninferiority trial in premenopausal women.

vaginal mucosal vaccine for recurrent urinary tract infections in women results of a phase 2 clinical trial.

1988 34339-43.kranjcvec b papes d altarac s. d-mannose powder for pro- phylaxis of recurrent urinary tract infections in women a random- ized clinical trial.

