instead only a thin layer of connective tissue the lamina propria separates the mucosa from244chapter 10 modeling intestinal disorders using zebrafishfigure 2mammalian and teleost intestinal architecture this schematic compares intestinal layers within the mammalian a and teleost b intestines.the underlying muscularis propria which is comprised of an inner circular and outer longitudinal smooth muscle layer.

while mouse models have not clearly demonstrated a role for msperon signaling in intestinal inflammation juvenile zebrafish lacking a functional msp developed spontaneous intestinal inflammation as evidenced by intestinal eosinophilia increased expression of inflammatory marker mmp9 and alteration of goblet cells  .

this elevation in tnf levels was microbe dependent and led to widespread epithelial degeneration and intestinal permeability defects that were reversed by tnf-a knockdown.in addition to studies involving candidate ibd genes forward genetic screens have identified mutations that result in intestinal epithelial disruption a hallmark254chapter 10 modeling intestinal disorders using zebrafishpathological feature of ibd .

instead the intestine is joined directly to the esophagus forming a tapered tube that is folded into three segments the large caliber anterior intestinal bulb the mid-intestine and the small diameter posterior intestine a. the anterior and mid-intestine characterized by long epithelial intestinal folds that shorten in length posteriorly are primarily involved in nutrient absorption bed.

the microbiota are also required for normal intestinal development in zebra- fish  as evidenced by the lack of brush border intestinal alkaline phosphatase iap activity immature glycan expression and a paucity of goblet and enteroendocrine cells in gf larvae.

subsequent studies in mice further confirm the importance of iap in enhancing hostemicrobe symbiosis  .3. intestinal inflammatory conditionsthe optical transparency of the zebrafish and its suitability for chemical screens provide unique opportunities to study the fundamental mechanisms underlying intestinal inflammation and injury.

here we discuss key findings from zebrafish ibd models that can be broadly categorized into two groups the chemically induced and the genetically engineered models.chemically induced models of intestinal inflammation four chemically induced models of intestinal injury and inflammation have been described in zebrafish .

oxazolone-mediated injury was manifested as disruption of the intestinal folds depletion of goblet cells and a pronounced inflammatory cell infiltrate consisting of neutrophils and eosinophils resulting in pronounced thickening of the intestinal wall  .

in contrast this effecttable 1 four chemically induced models of intestinal injury and inflammationcontinuedtable 1 four chemically induced models of intestinal injury and inflammationdcont'd3.

tnbs exposure also led to an increase in252chapter 10 modeling intestinal disorders using zebrafishthe intestinal expression of melanin-concentrating hormone mch an evolution- arily conserved appetite-regulating neuropeptide that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of human ibd .

these studies illustrate the usefulness of the zebrafish model in investigating the role of er stress in mediating intestinal injury and inflammation.intestinal inflammatory conditions253genetic models of intestinal inflammationto date more than 160 ibd-associated genomic loci have been identified and this list continues to expand  .

the best studied condition is hirschsprung's disease hscr a heritable form of intestinal agangliosis of the distal colon that is the most common cause of neonatal intestinal obstruction.

conversely we also anticipate that studying missense variants in zebrafish genes that modulate larval enteric neuromuscular function may lead to the identifi- cation of novel clinically relevant variants in humans .chronic intestinal pseudo-obstruction cipo is another motility disorder that is an important cause of delayed intestinal transit in pediatric and adult patient populations.

morpholino258chapter 10 modeling intestinal disorders using zebrafishknockdown of rad21 in zebrafish larvae recapitulated the cipo phenotype as evi- denced by a significant reduction of enteric neurons in the distal intestine as well as delayed intestinal motility.

concluding remarksthe large degree of functional conservation of intestinal anatomy and physiology between zebrafish and mammals makes zebrafish an attractive animal system to model human intestinal physiology and disease.

