these findings suggest that cdk- associated increase in circulating tmao may impair enos- derived no production through vascular oxidative stress and inflammation contributing to endothelial dysfunction in ckd.in summary the present study demonstrates that ckd leads to increases in gut microbiota-generated metabolite tmao in the circulation which promotes vascular oxidative stress and inflam- mation contributing to endothelial dysfunction in ckd f. these findings may provide new insights into the mechanisms responsible for ckd-associated endothelial dysfunction and car- diovascular disease.

endothelial dysfunction has been reported in patients with all stages of ckd e and in different animal models of chronic renal failure e. although multiple factors have been proposed to contribute to endothelial dysfunction in ckd the precious underlying mechanisms remain largely elusive.trimethylamine n-oxide tmao a gut microbiota-dependent metabolite has recently gained much attention due to its poten- tial role in mediating cardiovascular disease cvd pathogenesis e. for example elevated tmao worsens the outcomes of pressure overload-induced heart failure  exacerbates hyper- tensive effect of angiotensin ii  and promotes atherosclerotic development .

recent studies revealed that increased tmao causes vascular oxidative stress and inflammation leading to reductions in enos activity and no production which are associ- ated with impaired endothelial function and cardiovascular events in aged animals or in endothelial cells .

schematic diagram showing possible mechanisms responsible for endothelial dysfunction in ckd f.inflammatory cytokines in ckd group to the same extent as those observed in sham-vehicle group.discussionthe major findings of the present study are as follows 1 rats with ckd have increased circulating tmao which is prevented by dmb treatment an inhibitor of trimethylamine formation 2 endothelium-dependent but not endothelium-independent vaso- dilation is impaired in rats with ckd and is restored by dmb treatment 3 rats with ckd exhibit decreased vascular enos ac- tivity along with elevated superoxide production and proin- flammatory cytokines 4 dmb treatment of ckd rats normalizes vascular enos activity superoxide production and proin- flammatory cytokines.

to examine whether elevated circulating tmao in ckd reduces enos activity we measured expression of total enos and enos phosphorylation at ser1177 and thr495.

no significant differences in above renal function parameters were observed between two sham groups or between two ckd groups.circulating tmao levelsat the end of the study protocol ckd-vehicle group showed markedly higher levels of plasma tmao compared with sham- vehicle group a. dmb treatment significantly reduced plasma tmao levels not only in ckd group but also in sham group compared with respective vehicle groups.vascular reactivitythe dose-response curves of ach-mediated endothelium- dependent relaxation in aortic rings are shown in b. ckd- vehicle group exhibited a significant reduction in ach-induced relaxation when compared with all other groups.

biochemical and biophysical research communications 495 2018 2071e20772075actnf-a il-6b-actinshamckdfckdvehicleddmbvehicledmbgut dysbiosis tmao synthesis renal function tmao excretion b250200ecirculating tmao 150100500shamckdendothelial dysfunctionfig.

additionally impaired renal function may reduce the capacity of the kidney to excrete tmao especially when tmao synthesis is elevated resulting in increased circulating tmao levels.

phosphorylation of enos at ser1177 leads to increase in enos activity whereas phosphorylation of enos at thr495 results in decrease in enos activity .

circulating tmao is elevated in patients with ckd and associated with increased cardiovascular events e. to date however no studies have directly examined the role of tmao in mediating endothelial dysfunction in ckd.

these find- ings clearly demonstrate that increases in circulating tmao con- tributes to endothelial dysfunction in ckd.no deficiency plays a major role in the pathogenesis of ckd- associated endothelial dysfunction .

emax to ach was decreased by 42 in ckd-vehicle group as compared to sham- vehicle group but was restored by dmb treatment c. auc was significantly reduced by 52 in ckd-vehicle group when compared with sham-vehicle group but was normalized by dmb treatment d. sensitivity to ach measured by the log ec50 values was similar among four experimental groups e. the dose-response curves of snp-mediated endothelium-independent relaxation in aortic rings are presented in f. there was no significant difference across groups in the relaxation responses to snp as analyzed by emax and logec50 data not shown indicating no ckd- or dmb treatment-related alteration in endothelium- independent vasodilation.vascular enos activitynitric oxide no produced by endothelial nitric oxide synthase enos plays a critical role in maintaining vascular function.

moreover the ratio of ser1177 to thr495 was significantly lower in ckd-vehicle group as compared to sham-vehicle group e. importantly dmb treatment normalized phosphorylation of enos at both sites as well as the ratio of ser1177 to thr495 in ckd group without effects in sham group.vascular oxidative stress and inflammationincreased oxidative stress and inflammation have been sug- gested to account for endothelial dysfunction in ckd by decreasing no bioavailability via reduction in enos activity .

as shown in  there was no significant difference in total enos expression across groups b. however phos- phorylation of enos at ser1177 c a positive regulatory site associated with increased enzymatic activity  was significantly decreased whereas phosphorylation of enos at thr495 d a negative regulatory site associated with decreased enzymatic ac- tivity  tended to be increased in ckd-vehicle group when compared with sham-vehicle group.

3. representative western blots a and quantitative comparison of protein levels for total enos b enos phosphorylation at ser1177 c and thr495 d and the ratio of enos phosphorylation at ser1177 to at thr495 e in the aorta in ckd and sham rats treated with dmb or vehicle.

