6. it is noteworthy that statistical analysis of these results showed that the mmse values obtained for the three cohorts of the severe moderate and mild stages of ad ranged from 10 10-19 20 respectively were found statistically significant ver- sus normal group ad mmse 0-10 versus normal p  0.01 ad mmse 10-19 versus normal p  0.016 ad mmse 20-30 versus normal p  0.038. on the contrary mci mmse values versus normal group values were not statistically significant mci mmse 0-10 versus normal p  0.097. no other compar- isons between the values gave statistically significant differentiations.these results are consistent with old data reporting that microorganisms of helical shape were found in the csf blood and cerebral cortex of ad patients while they were absent in the control samples 50. rls characterized as small bacterial metabolites are expected to circulate in the blood and pass rather eas- ily in the csf.

ad groups with mmse 10 10-19 and 20 displayed statistically significant rl levels compared to the nor- mal group ad mmse 0-10 versus normal p  0.01 ad mmse 10-19 versus normal p  0.016 ad mmse 20-30 versus normal p  0.038. on the contrary when comparing mci versus normal group rls values no statistical significance was observed mci versus normal p  0.097. statistical analysis was also performed between the different ad groups and mci group but no significant correlation was found.the first question raised is what is the possible origin of the detected rls except for the numer- ous strains of pseudomonas the most frequent human colonizers various other bacteria have been reported to produce rls including actinobacteria bacilli betaproteobacteria deltaproteobacteria and gammaproteobacteria acinetobacter enter- obacter pantoea burkholderia 32. numerous non-pseudomonas urpb uncommon-rls pro- ducing bacteria have also been reported including both gram - like pseudoxanthomonas sp.

this increase was reflected in a proportionally-dependent degree of blood monocytes activation which was positively associated with the genesis of ad 15. bacterialcells in the blood of ad patients in dormancy were visualized with ultrastructural microscopy when iron deficiency has been overcome it leads to their reviv- ification 16. the surviving cells are able to expel strongly inflammatory components including lpss 16. the imputed role of pathogens in ad has been extensively reported for about over 200 differ- ent helical bacterial spirochete species 17 which may co-infect with other gram-negative phylotypes 18-29.among the extensively-studied bacterial infectious components and their inductive role in immune and inflammatory responses the involvement of rls as microbiota-derived metabolites in ad has never been accounted for.

dot blot demonstrated elevated rl levels in sera of ad patients compared to controls p  0.014. moreover elisa showed similarly elevated rl levels in cerebrospinal fluid of both ad 0.188 versus 0.080 p  0.04 and mild cognitive impairment 0.188 versus 0.129 p  0.088 patients compared to healthy and are well- correlated with the ad stages severity assessed using the mini-mental state examination.

8-12. research highlights the contribution of amyloids and other bacterial components ligands andor products like lpss to the appearance or progression of ad 11 12 even within the developing intestine which plays a key role in the early programming of the cns and the regulation of the intestinal innate immu- nity 13. amyloids despite their sufficient solubility as proteinaceous monomers can be assembled by auto-aggregation resulting in fibrils which are often associated with ad pathogenicity 14. the concen- tration of endotoxin lpss in plasma from ad patients increased compared to controls.

rls are glycolipids initially reported to be produced by p. aeruginosa but later sev- eral other bacteria were added to the list 30-33. rls are composed of a gluconic and a lipidic seg- ment commonly comprising one or two rhamnoses and hydroxyl-substituted fatty acids 33. rls pro- duction is regulated by the quorum sensing system depending on the bacterial density in the culture medium 33. they are released from the periplasm toward the extracellular environment and have been characterized as bacterial virulence factors 32. sev- eral biological activities of rls emanating from and being attributed to their detergent-like proper- ties have been identified 30 34 including immune system modulation 34 promotion of early infil- tration of primary human airway epithelia by p. aeruginosa morphological alterations in the mem- brane provoking alterations to its integrity especially by causing selective tight-junction changes to the respiratory epithelium 35 cytotoxicity induced on the fibroblastic cell line 36 hemolytic activity of erythrocytes 37 and induction of cytogenetic damage in human lymphocytes and bind dna in vitro 38.therefore based on the concept that ad could be attributed to bacterial infections and given that rls are bacterial virulence factors secreted by a wide range of pathogens residing in humans the objectives of this study were a to investigate the pos- sible and temporary presence of rls in blood serum using methods such as thin-layer chromatography tlc attenuated total reflection fourier transform infrared atr-ftir and immune-detection meth- ods dot blot and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay elisa and antibodies against bacterial rlsb furthermore we endeavored to elucidate whether there are visible differentiations in the quantities of rls present in serum and cerebrospinal fluid csfof small cohorts of both mild cognitive impairment mci and ad patients in comparison with nor- mal individuals and finally c to evaluate whether the increased amounts of plasma rls would be reflected proportionally in the clinical ad progres- sive stages.materials and methodsmaterialsantibodies against rls anti-rls were prepared after immunizing rabbits subcutaneously with rls using standard techniques.

whiskers characterize lower and upper quartiles for 95 confidence interval ci of data.detection of rls in sera from ad patients probed with polyclonal antibodies against rls by dot blot assaybased on the detection of rls in blood the ques- tion raised was whether their levels may vary in the sera of ad patients and whether they could be associated with ad as bacterial metabolites.

4.the median value of the rls immuno-signal was 37374 versus 25380. the standard deviation value for ad patients was 14696.87 while the control group one was 5902.7. as shown in the mann-whitney test tables 1 and 3 the increase of rls levels observed in patients with ad as compared to controls was statistically significant p  0.014.this result indicates that the increased concentra- tion of rls as bacterial metabolites in ad patients revealed a possible abundant microbiota residing temporarily or nearly permanently in these patients as it was reflected in the increased rls secretion.

5 the rls levels in the csf of ad patients were elevated compared to healthy individuals 0.188 versus 0.080. the difference in rl levels between mci and healthy controls was smaller compared to healthy individuals 0.188 ver- sus 0.129. the p-values of the ad and mci patients against the control group were 0.04 and 0.088 respec- tively while the p-value of the ad patients against the mci group was 0.023 table 4.the csf donors of the experiment were assessed based on the mini-mental state examination mmse and were classified in three groups accord- ing to the obtained mmse values 10 10-19 and20 which correlate with the severe moderate and mild stages of the disease respectively.

the increased levels of rls in ad patients may be well explained by the hypothesis suggesting a microbial population diversity residing within each individual and secreting rls.discussionthis article revolves around the idea of the pos- sible microbial embroilment in ad pathology via infection by pathogens an issue that constitutes a long-standing debate 3 11 12 18-29 50 51.table 4statistical analysis of the immune reactivity of alzheimer's disease ad and normal groups against rhamnolipids rls in cerebrospinal fluid samples with the elisa methodthe depicted values shown represent mean values with standard deviations appearing in parentheses.

these results provide conclusive evidence for the newly-reported implication of rls in ad adding it to the list of bacterial components opening new avenues for ad investigation.

moreover they strengthen and vindicate the divergence of research toward the exploration of bacterial involvement in ad generation and progression.keywords alzheimer's disease bacteria blood serum cerebrospinal fluid rhamnolipidsintroductionalzheimer's disease ad is a human neurode- generative disorder that displays several pathological features including the bundles of amyloid-3 plaques in the brain that occur alongside tau neurofibrillary tangles and exhibits misfolded structure and deteri- orated clearance.

nitrocellulose membranes were of the whatmantm company protran ba 85 germany polystyrene 96 wells plates were of the greiner bioone company germany.participantsfifty-nine ad patients recruited from the memory and dementia outpatient clinic of the g. papani- colaou general hospital of thessaloniki greecetable 1demographic and clinical characteristics of alzheimer's disease ad and normal groups in serum samplesthe depicted values shown represent mean values with standard deviations appearing in parentheses.

measuring the con- centration of rls may be considered as a potential predictive factor for ad associated with the bacterial potential.the elisa method for rls immunodetection in csf from ad patients probed with polyclonal antisera against rlswhat we further examined was the possible differ- entiation in the rl levels in another biological fluid directly related to the cns yet not easily accessible the csf.

thirty-four out of 43 samples contained 1 bacterial reads which was regarded as a cross- or environmental contamination 83. the involvement of bacteria the relevance and the mechanisms of infectioninflammation to ad pathogenesis has been recently reviewed 84.the obtained results provide strong evidence for the association of rls with ad.

