to further confirm that the c. subhashii soil isolate was indeed the same species as the clinical isolate the mitochondrial genome of the swiss c. subhashii isolate was sequenced available at ncbi under the accession number kx781248 and phylogenetic analyses were performed.the mitochondrial genome sequence of the c. sub- hashii soil isolate fga 2.2 was identical to the c. subhashii type strain fr 392cbs 10753 except that the former had an insertion of 135 bp in a non- coding region between two genes bases 15872 to 16006 in the assembly of fga 2.2. consequently the fga 2.2 mitochondrial genome exhibited the same peculiarities as the corresponding genome of the type strain exceptionally high gc content 52.7 a lack of introns in coding sequences and telomere-like termini of the linear molecules.

in fact c. subhashii was considered a human pathogen because it has been isolated from a patient sample nevertheless it must be noted that only one case report of a c. subhashii infection exists a pa- tient on a long-term peritoneal dialysis treatment devel- oped a peritonitis that was ascribed to a c. subhashii infection and successfully treated with fluconazole ampicillin and amoxicillin .

the ther- motolerance growth at 37 degc of c. subhashii also ob- served for the isolates described here and for an isolate similar to c. subhashii described from japan is a re- quirement for human pathogenicity but many isolates exhibiting this property more frequently found within the ascomycota than the basidiomycota have not yet been described as mammalian let alone human patho- gens here c. subhashii was repeatedly isolated from soil samples and from commercially available potting sub- strates where it occurred in large concentrations among the most frequent fungi in potting substrate approx.

the c. subhashii strain fga 2.2 mitochondrial genome was annotated by reference to the c. subhashii type strain cbs10753 to construct a phylogenetic tree the mtdna sequences of 22 diverse yeast species selected based on previous stud- ies and the availability of complete and annotatedmitochondrial genomes were obtained from ncbi table the amino acid sequences of the conserved pro- teins atp6 atp8 atp9 cob cox1 cox2 and cox3 were ex- tracted from the downloaded sequences as well as from thec.

however identical or almost identical mitochon- drial genomes have also been reported for example in penicillium isolates from spain and china respectively and may indicate a rapid global spread of one particular isolate of c. subhashii on the other hand the identical mitochondrial genomes are in contrast to stud- ies reporting considerable intra-species variation in size intron content and recombination in fungal mitochon- drial genomes -at present it is not clear why the c. subhashii mitochondrial genome is so conserved and future studies will have to address the conservation and evolution of the mitochondrial genome in more de- tail as well as reveal the entire genome sequence of c subhashii as a basis for identifying genes mediating an- tagonistic functions.conclusionsthe work presented here combines a broad screening of the antagonistic activity of naturally occurring yeasts against saprophytic and pathogenic filamentous fungi with growth analyses to compare the metabolic potential of the most antagonistic yeasts.

on different carbon sources growth in root exudates c. subhashii was identified as a competitive and antagonistic soil yeast with potential as a novel biocontrol agent against plant pathogenic fungi.keywords antagonism biocontrol candida fungal plant pathogen mitochondrial genome plant protection yeast correspondence 1agroscope institute for plant production sciences ips schloss 1 p.b.

of the six yeast isolates tested here the soil isolate sha 17.2 of c. sargentensis grew best in root exudates.candida subhashii is an abundant soil fungusone of the overall strongest antagonists was c. subha- shii a species that has previously only been described in a patient sample in canada and was considered a human pathogen .

only the two yeasts c. subhashii and m. pulcherrima were able to grow with n-acetyl-glucosamine as carbon source.conclusions the competition assays and physiological experiments described here identified known antagonists that have been implicated in the biological control of plant pathogenic fungi in the past but also little characterised species such as c. subhashii.

this species has only been re- ported from a patient suffering from peritonitis during a long-term peritoneal dialysis treatment and an isolate highly similar to this type strain 99.8 identity in the 26s rdna d1d2 domain 1.3 se- quence difference for the 5.8s-its region was ob- tained from a soil sample from east japan except for these two reports only one additional pub- lication reporting the mitochondrial genome of c. subhashii has appeared here we describe c. subhashii as a common and frequent soil fungus that has broad metabolic capabilities grows in root exu- dates and that strongly antagonizes a wide range of filamentous fungi all species tested in this study in- cluding notorious plant pathogens saprophytes but also other antagonists of the genus trichoderma.

specifically the particular large number of c. subhashii cells in potting substrate comprised of white and black peat of european ori- gin suggests that either or both of these components are a natural reservoir of this antagonistic soil yeast.the extremely high similarity of the mitochondrial ge- nomes of the swiss and clinical canadian c. subhashii isolates is surprising and unexpected particularly when considering the vastly different origins of the two iso- lates.

the results presented here thus define c. subhashii as a com- mon and competitive soil yeast.additional fileacknowledgementskenneth h. wolfe and geraldine butler are greatly acknowledged for the annotation of the c. subhashii mitochondrial genome and for helpful comments during the planning and preparation of this manuscript.

the iden- tification of c. subhashii as a strongly antagonistic soil yeast is particularly noteworthy because previously the natural habitat of this species was unknown and it was described in one publication as a human pathogen.

noteworthy was the strong antagonistic activity of the soil yeast c. subhashii which had so far only been described from a clinical sample and not been studied with respect to biocontrol.based on binary competition assays and growth analyses e.g.

in order to identify common and distinguishing characteristics that may affect the poten- tial as biocontrol agents these six most antagonistic yeasts were further characterized with respect to their growth requirements.all six yeast isolates grew well at temperatures up to 30 degc and two isolates one isolate each from apple and soil apc 11.10 b p. kluyveri fga 2.2 c. subhashii re- spectively were able to multiply at 37 degc fig.

ny7122 a pentose-fermenting soil yeast that is similar to c. subhashii and that was iso- lated from a japanese soil.

