importantly this tlr expression profile was consistent with the tlr expression profile in primary endometrial tissue  and in primary human endometrial epithelial cells  reported by others.to study the functionality of tlrs in our model we treated 3-d eec aggregates with selected microbial products for 24 h after which expression of proinflammatorycytokine and chemokine mrnas was quantified by qrt-pcr.

overall these data illustrate that selected bacterial species that reside in the lower frt can adhere to cells in the human 3-d eec model suggesting that our 3-d model could be used to study host-microbe interactions and potentially the steps in biofilm formation.cells in the human 3-d endometrial epithelial cell model produce proinflam- matory cytokines and chemokines following infection with pathogenic gonococci but not following infection with vaginal bacterial species.

to summarize we have shown that polyic a viral product and flagellin a bacterial product but not fsl-1 or lps are able to significantly induce the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines in the 3-d human eec model in a dose-dependent manner.vaginal bacterial species and n. gonorrhoeae colonize cells in the human 3-d endometrial epithelial cell model.

nevertheless these data demonstrate that mams are expressed in the human endometrial cells in the 3-d cell culture.cells in the human 3-d endometrial epithelial cell model produce proinflam- matory cytokines and chemokines following exposure to microbial products.

two other immortalized normal epithelial cell lines human endometrial surface epithelial cells hes and human telomerase reverse transcriptase-immortalized eecs were recently shown to be hela cervical carcinoma and mcf-7 breast cancer cells respectively .

the lack of tlr4 signaling in our model is not surprising as it has been shown that hec-1a cells do not respond to lps  and we have previously shown that epithelial cells lining the lower frt generally do not respond to lps   .we also examined the expression of mucins given that the mucus layer that coats the human frt plays a crucial role in host defense against microbial pathogens.

mrna levels were significantly higher in human endometrial cells in the 3-d cell culture treated with either dose of polyic 23.1-fold for 10 ugml p  0.05 and 103.3-fold for 100 ugml p  0.01 and flagellin 73.3-fold for 0.5 ugml p  0.05 and 97.9-fold for 5 ugml p  0.05. ccl20 expression levels also increased following exposure to flagellin 237.1-fold for 0.5 ugml p  0.05 and 396.2 for 5 ugml p  0.05. we observed a 71.1-fold increase in the level of ccl20 expression after polyic treatment 100 ugml however it was not statistically significant.

our results from hec-1a cells grown in 3-d cell culture are in agreement with those of all three studies of biopsy specimens or primary endometrial epithelium demonstrating expression of all tested tlrs tlr1 to tlr9  with the level of expression of tlr7 being the lowest .beyond monitoring their expression we also determined the ability of the tlrs expressed in our 3-d eec aggregates to respond to their cognate agonists.

furthermore the observed morphology of the cells from the bioreactor-derived aggregates was similar to the morphology of nonciliated cells from human endometrial tissue in the early proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle as evidenced by sem.

overall the studies highlighted in this report demonstrate that the human 3-d eec model is a robust tool to study the host innate immune responses to microbial challenges in the upper frt.resultsmorphological characteristics of the human 3-d eec model.

those strain-dependent interactions of n. gonorrhoeae with epithelial cells show that our 3-d eec model is a robust tool to study gonorrheal pathogenesis.overall the ability of our model to be colonized with vaginal species combined with microbe-specific responses that are consistent with clinical findings demonstrate thatour 3-d eec model is a robust tool to study host-microbe interactions.

these phenomena could not be detected infig 1 structural characteristics of cells in the human 3-d endometrial epithelial cell model.

transmission electron microscopy tem and scanning electronfig 2 cells in the human 3-d endometrial epithelial cell model express membrane-associated mucins muc1 muc4 muc17 and muc20.

other tested mucins namely muc2 muc3fig 3 innate immune response of cells in the human 3-d endometrial epithelial cell model following microbial product exposure.

the location of microcolonies in the crevices and folds offig 4 vaginal bacterial species and n. gonorrhoeae effectively colonize cells in the human 3-d endometrial epithelial cell model.

