Internalin A InlA and InlB two members of a fam- ily of 25 proteins called internalins bind to eukary- otic cell membrane receptors E-cadherin and Met the receptor of the hepatocyte growth factor HGFBox 1  Listeria phylogenyCurrently there are 17 identified Listeria species of which 2 are pathogenic Listeria monocytogenes and Listeria ivanovii and 6 share sufficient genotypic and phenotypic similarities to be considered ListeriaaFSLR2-503FSLN1-017961029559CLIP8045955125sensu stricto6119.

Two species Listeria monocytogenes and Listeria ivanovii are pathogenic to humans and ruminants respectively.

It can then cross the blood-brain barrier in32  JANUARY 2018  VOLUME 16REVIEWS Listeria monocytogenes-contaminated foodb LLOFigure 1  Overview of Listeria monocytogenes infection.

L. monocytogenes also secretes cyclic di-AMP and releases other pathogen-associated molec- ular patterns PAMPs during infection both of which activate the cellular innate immune response see BOX 2 for details37-39.36  JANUARY 2018  VOLUME 16REVIEWS Box 2  Innate immune sensing of Listeria monocytogenesUpon infection Listeria monocytogenes pathogen-associated molecular patterns PAMPs are sensed on the surface of cells by Toll-like receptors TLRs.

Genome-wide siRNA screen identifies complementary signaling pathways involved in Listeria infection and reveals different actin nucleation mechanisms during Listeria cell invasion and actin comet tail formation.

1.Until recently the genus Listeria was thought to con- tain only eight species and two subspecies.

All Listeria spp.

Listeria spp.

a  Schematic of Listeria monocytogenes infection of a human host.

Listeria nuclear targeted protein A LntA interacts with the Bromo adjacent homology domain-containing 1 protein BAHD1 complex to derepress interferon-stimulated genes ISGs andNAD-dependent protein deacetylase sirtuin 2 SIRT2 shuttles into the nucleus to deacetylate histone 3at lysine 18 leading to changes in chromatin packing that alter downstream gene expression.

