survivin level was discerned to be decreased significantly in treated patients with disease modifying antirheumatic drugs dmards .studies identified that survivin was overexpressed significantly in peripheral blood mononuclear cells pbmcs from ra patients com- pared to oa patients .

de- myelinating igg was found in some patients and complement activation were also pathogenic in ms patients .in ppms survivin level was about 5-fold higher in resting t cells in comparison to other patients groups .

il-22 and downstream genes like survivin were upregulated in inactive uc patients compared to active uc patients and healthy controls .survivin upregulation was suggested as high risk factor in devel-opment of cancer in ibd patients.

inhibition of survivin reduces the development of follicular helper t tfh cells and auto- antibody production in mice .it was identified that expression of survivin-2b in serum of ra patients was higher than both healthy controls and oa patients .

survivin level was significantly lower in patients who received dmard treatments .survivin expression in rasfs was higher than those in oa patients .

il-17 production correlates with disease activity in sle patients .autoantibodies in sle patients suggest abnormalities in activation and development of b cells .

survivin overexpression ex vivo stimulated t cells from patients with active ms when compared with patients with stable ms or inflammatory and non-inflammatory neurologic diseases or healthy controls .

increased ratio of cd19cd22 in ssc patients may cause activation of b cells to produce variety of autoantibodies  which play pathogenic roles in ssc patients.

anti-fibroblast antibodies induce production of il-1 and il-6 which cause fibrosis .serum level of survivin was significantly higher in patients with ssccompared with healthy control and sle patients .

survivin overexpression in rasfs from ra patients re- sults in long survival and high proliferation in these cells that have very important pathogenic roles in these patients.

investigations reported overexpression of survivin in basal layer of epithelium in olp patients that may suggest the transforming of olp to oscc .

chronic in-flammation leads to destruction and disability of joints in ra patients.

about 80 of oa patients are more than 50 years .

more than 90 of patients with ra have hla-dr4 and dw4 antigens .

in ra patients rasfs show hyperplasia secretion of matrix-degrading en- zymes and inflammatory cytokines that were associated with joints destruction .

