by contrast compared with il-17 ko mice colonized with aiec wt mice colonized with aiec showed a significant increase in il-22 production a b.in the dss-induced colitis group we observed il-22 in the colon of il-17 ko mice colonized with aiec decreased significantly compared with wt mice colonized with aiec c. these suggest that il-17 can promote il-22 secretion in aiec-colonized mice.

the results were analysed for statistical significance with student's t-test for unpaired samples in spss 16.0 and p  0.05 was considered significant.resultsexpression of il-17 is induced in colon infected by aiec strain e. coli lf82to examine the impact of aiec strain e. coli lf82 on the colon of mice wt mice were inoculated with 1 x 109 cfu aiec by oral gavage for 10 days.

in contrast to uncolonized wt mice colonized mice showed markedly disordered epithelium and more extensive infiltration of inflammatory cells by he staining a b. immunohistochemical staining revealed elevated levels of il-17 in the colon colonized with aiec mainly in infiltrating inflammatory cells in the lamina propria c d. real-time rt-pcr also showed the mrna expression of il- 17 remarkably increase in wt mice colonized with aiec e. our study shows that in the colon of wt mice aiec could enhance il-17 secretion.

thus we hypothesized il-17 may play a critical role in the inflammatory colon infected with aiec.il-17 is critical for host defence against aiec strain e. coli lf82to verify the role of il-17 in inflammatory colon infected with aiec we then inoculated il-17 ko mice with aiec for 10 days.

based on these findings we suspected that intestinal il-17 is critical for or- chestrating antibacterial immunity against aiec.il-17 protects the colon colonized with aiec strain e.coli lf82 during dss-induced colitisto explore the role of il-17 in colitis when infected with aiec wt or il-17 ko mice were orally inoculated with aiec and their colonic colonization were monitored by qpcr analysis.

the concentration of mucosa-associated aiec dna amounts expanded equivalently a.then mice were subjected to a single 5-day course of dss to induce acute colitis while untreated mice were used as controls.we found the severity of dss-induced colitis is not markedly dif- ferent between uncolonized aiec and colonized aiec in wt mice figures.

in d f and k data are means - sem n  6. p  0.05p  0.01 p  0.001 ko  aiec  dss 3 vswt  aiec  dss3.p  0.05p  0.01 p  0.001 ko  dss 3 vs ko aiec  dss 3.colitis by promoting il-22 production.discussionalthough substantial improvements have been made in the diag- nosis and therapy of ibd the risk of morbidity still remains high.

aiec reference strain e.coli lf82 is able to adhere to intestinal epithelial cells and to invade epithelial cells via a mechanism involving type 1 pili flagella outer membrane proteins and outer membrane vesicles omvs abbreviations cd crohn's disease uc ulcerative colitis ibd inflammatory bowel disease aiec adherent invasive escherichia coli rt-pcr reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction dss dextran sodium sulfate tem transmission electron microscope sem scanning electron microscopy corresponding auhtors at state key laboratory of cancer biology national clinical research center for digestive diseases and xijing hospital of digestive diseases fourth militarymedical university 127 changle western road xi'an shaanxi province 710032 pr china.e-mail addresses s.-m. sha m.-b.

li.1 these authors contributed equally to this work.received 15 may 2017 received in revised form 16 november 2017 accepted 20 november 20170161-5890c2017elsevierltd.allrightsreserved.. in particular the er-localized stress response chaperone gp96 acts as a host cell receptor for aiec invasion via omvs rich in ompa protein  the type 1 pili is essential through the recognition of ceacam6 to promote the adhesion of aiec  .

histopathological analysis revealed that il-17 ko mice exhibit more severely damaged colonic mucosa with extensive loss of crypt struc- tures and epithelial cell denudation larger areas of ulceration and more extensive infiltration of inflammatory cells a b which were also reflected in the pathological assessment of colitis severity scores c. furthermore microvilli were found broken shed and shortened in the intestinal epithelial cells with obviously changed or- ganelles in the il-17 ko mice of aiec group observed by transmission electron microscope d. however the changes in intestinal mu- cosa ultrastructure were not so obvious in the wt mice of aiec group.

scanning electron microscopy indicated that aiec infection was predominantly superficial in wt mice whereas large numbers of bacteria penetrated deeply into the colonic epithelium in il-17 ko mice e-h. to- gether these data support the hypothesis that colonic epithelial in- tegrity is compromised in il-17 ko mice during aiec infection.

pcr analysis revealed that il-17 is produced at significant levels in the wt colon with colonized aiec after daily ad- ministration of dss compared to uncolonized aiec mice figures.

these results suggested aiec could promote the secretion of il-17 in the colon.because il-17 expression is highly induced during inflammation of these tissues we sought to examine the role of il-17 in the colon co- lonized with aiec during dss-induced colitis.

but in wt mice levels of il-22 were lower in the dss-treated group compared to the aiec  dss-treated group c. moreover severity of colitis was more mild in the dss treated group compared to the aiec  dss- treated group in il-17 ko mice including weight loss d colon shortening e-f and severe colonic mucosa damage i-k but there was no significant difference in wt mice.

il-17 could maintain the colonic epithelial integrity under colonization of aiec we simultaneously discovered il-17 could protect the colon colonized with aiec during dss-induced colitis.

