principal component analysis also showed that the gut microbiota of rig-i-- and wt mice were different additional file figure s4b.furthermore to determine whether the susceptibility of rig-i-- mice to induced cac was caused by imbal- anced gut flora we removed most of the bacteria via treating mice with a cocktail of antibiotics abx.interestingly rig-i-- mice were still more susceptible to induced cac than wt mice although all mice held de- crease tumor number and tumor load than that before abx intake fig.

increasing evidences demonstrate the crucial role of the gut microbiota in carcinogenesis -and several bacterial groups have been identified as crc- associated bacteria including bacteroidetes proteobac- teria and fusobacterium  host recognition of various microbial components known as pathogen- associated molecular patterns pamps mainly depends on pattern-recognition receptors prrs such as toll- like receptors tlr nod-like receptors nlrs rig-i- like receptors rlrs and c-type lectin receptors clrs -retinoic acid-inducible gene-i rig-i also known as ddx58 a main member of rlrs is an intracellular viral rna receptor which specifically recognizes double-stranded viral rna initiating antiviral innate im- munity in our previous studies we found that rig-i knock-out rig-i-- mice were susceptible to colitis which was similar with human ibd accompanied with decreased expression of g protein subunit a-i2 gai-2 and abnormal t cell activation rig-i-- mice were also found to be more susceptible to infection with e. coli as compared to wt mice due to decreased phagocyt- osis of bacteria furthermore rig-i-- mice were susceptible to spontaneous infection with a commensal bacterium s. xylosus in the skin around eyes and neck accompanied with defects in b cell development specific igg3 immunoglobulin class switch recombination un- published data and p105 translational inhibition these results indicate that the regulatory functions of rig-i are strikingly broad.

after mice were treated with the antibiotics for 5 weeks colon cancer was induced in wt or rig-i-- mice as described above.sample collection sequencing and bioinformatics analysis for intestinal microbiotato obtain well-matched wt and rig-i-- mice for the com- parison of intestinal microbiota wt and rig-i-- littermates from a single heterozygous intercross were selected to start homozygous intercross that were housed separately from this point on.

we used samples of off- spring of male mice from the same brood mating with another brood of female mice to avoid the ef- fects of the feeding cage and the female mouse hor- monal cycle  our study found that the variation of intestinal flora between wt and rig-i-- mice exactly existed in different ages.

this pro- vides novel insights on crc and reveals the potential therapeutic strategy.methodsmice and tumor inductionthe rig-i-deficient rig-i-- mice had been reported previously mice were kept in specific-pathogen free conditions and fed by free access to a standard diet and water.

during the experimental proced- ure rig-i-- mice showed reduced survival time and higher mortality than wt mice fig.

moreover we found that the co- lons of rig-i-- mice were much shorter and thicker than those of wt mice additional file figure s3b.

the untreated co- lons were comparable between rig-i-- and wt mice add- itional file figure s3c but rig-i-- mice loaded more severe dysplasia and adenocarcinoma fig.

taken together these results showed that rig-i loss could promote the progres- sion of induced cac in mice.rig-i-- mice displayed intestinal flora disturbanceintestinal flora has a key role in colorectal carcino- genesis  to evaluate the effect of rig-i on intes- tinal microbiota regulation we collected stool samples from rig-i-- and wt mice in different ages.

rig-i-- mice devel- oped colitis similar to human ibd accompanied withdown-regulation of gai2 and disturbed t-cell homeostasis 2. rig-i-- mice were more susceptible to infection withe.

it should be noted that the study of the micro-bial community in genetic modified mice was prone to systematic errors such as the impact of cages and the genetic background of mice.

most of crc is associated with colitis inflammation and chronic infec- tion given that rig-i-- mice showed a similar phenotype with human colitis and intestinal flora dis- order we speculated that rig-i-- mice were more sus- ceptible to colorectal cancer.

however when we removed microbes in the intestines of mice using mixed antibi- otics all mice held decrease tumor number and tumor load than that before abx intake.

only our collaborators reported that rig-i was a tumor suppressor and mice lack of rig-i were more sus- ceptible to den-induced hepatocellular carcinoma  we also found decreased expression of rig-i in colorec- tal tumor samples from patients and induced crc of mice.

additionally rig-i was down-regulated in intestinal epi- thelial compartment of ibd patients accompanied with apparent disorder of intestinal flora and 18 of ibd patients may eventually develop into colorectal can- cer but the influence of rig-i on the colorectal car- cinogenesis and its association with gut microbiota are still unclear.in the present study we analyzed the composition ofgut microbiota in rig-i-- mice and evaluated its effect on colorectal carcinogenesis.

