however these methodologies developed for microarray data are not suitable for analyzing metagenomic count data obtained from sequencing technology.many methods have been developed for time series rna-seq data.

conventionally rna-seq data and metagenomic sequencing data share some commonality but they are different in library compos- ition library preparation protocols and research purpose.

in other words rna-seq data lack ability in revealing the species genus composition of a microbial sample but the metagenomic data can be used to access the microbial diversity.

simply borrowing methods developed for rna-seq data might lead to inappropriate description of the charac- teristic of metagenomic data.

the p-value for one feature is calculated by comparing the calculated f-statistic on the original data to the empirical null distribution on the permutated data.

we also include the method next-masigpro as a representative method on analyzing time-course rna-seq data.settingsdue to the over-disperse nature of metagenomic count data the negative binomial nb distribution is widely used in modeling gene expression sequencing data  .

the size parameter c in the nb distribution was modeled as a function of the means meaning the count data that have larger means also have higher dispersion and data with smaller means have lower dis- persion within each time point.the abundance of some features in a microbial community may increase or decrease or may have more complicated patterns over time due to certain treatments.

we found out metadprof still outperforms the other methods and all methods achieve better performance compared with the results based on normalized data this may indicate the ne- cessity of developing appropriate normalization methods on meta- genomic count data.

compared to static metagenomic data time-course data contains more information about the communities which can result in more accurate and powerful detection of dafs.the comprehensive simulation studies show all of three meth- ods metadprof metagenomeseq and next-masigpro can detect the true dafs very well.

furthermore the simulation results for the data generated by zigp model also show that metadprof can handle count data with excess zero.

however currently available statistical methods lack power in detecting differen- tially abundant features contrasting different biological or medical conditions in particular for time series metagenomic sequencing data.

the proposed method is also applied to a real meta- genomic dataset and the results provide an interesting angle to understand the relationship be- tween the microbiota in mouse gut and diet type.availability and implementation r code and an example dataset are available at contact supplementary information supplementary data are available at bioinformatics online.introductionas the direct genetic analysis of genomes from environments e.g.

appropriately the added dimension of time will af- fect dafs detection.some researchers suggest borrowing the methods for analyzing genomic data from other types of technology e.g.

many methods have been developed to analyze time series microarray data   .

for instance next-masigpro was developed to model rna- seq time series count data by taking into account the temporal di- mension through fitting a polynomial regression  .

