hound labs inc. have also developed a miniature portable breath thc detection device with a patent-pending approach with low detection limits below 500 pg .laboratory-based breath testing using bench top instrumentation such as liquid chromatography tan- dem mass spectrometry lc-ms-ms equipped with positive electrospray ionisation and selected reaction monitoring and gas chromatography gc coupled with ms have shown the capability of multiple detec- tion of drugs of abuse in exhaled breath -.

some vocs are associated with exhaled breath where research is moving from individual breath testing volatilome to cell breath microbiome and most recently to crowd breath metabolites exposome.

journal of breath researchpaperadvances in chemical sensing technologies for vocs in breath for securitythreat assessment illicit drug detection and human trafficking activityto cite this article s giannoukos et al 2018 j. breath res.

the complexity and richness of human volatilome components from exhaled breath skin emanations urine saliva human breast milk blood and feces has been reviewed  .this article outlines a the chemistry of human body odour with the principal focus being human detection and tracking in security applications b the breath detectable illegal activities associated with exposures to threat compounds e.g.

beck o stephanson n sandqvist s and franck j 2013 detection of drugs of abuse in exhaled breath using a device for rapid collection comparison with plasma urine and self- reporting in 47 drug users j. breath res.

wang c and sahay p 2009 breath analysis using laser spectroscopic techniques breath biomarkers spectral fingerprints and detection limits sensors natale c d macagnano a paolesse r tarizzo e mantini a and amico a d 2000 human skin odor analysis by means of an electronic nose sens.

pleil j d risby t and herbig j 2016 breath biomonitoring in national security assessment forensic thc testing biomedical technology and quality assurance applications report from pittcon 2016 j. breath res.

q-technologies ltd liverpool uk williams j and pleil j d 2016 crowd-based breath analysis assessing behaviour activity exposures and emotional response of people in groups j. breath res.

12 027106view the for updates and enhancements.this content was downloaded from ip address 129.219.8.139 on 09042018 at 1902paper advances in chemical sensing technologies for vocs in breath forreceived24 june 2017accepted for publication25 october 2017published17 january 2018securitythreat assessment illicit drug detection and humantrafficking activitys giannoukos a agapiou and s taylor1 university of liverpool department of electrical engineering and electronics liverpool l69 3gj united kingdom2 university of cyprus department of chemistry po box 20357 1678 nicosia cyprus3 q technologies ltd 100 childwall road liverpool l15 6ux united kingdome-mail and keywords human chemical signatures chemical sensing technologies national securityabstracton-site chemical sensing of compounds associated with security and terrorist attacks is of worldwide interest.

finally the outlook for rapid and precise real-time field detection of threat traces in exhaled breath is revealed and discussed.introductionthe world community is witnessing a complex multi- level and rapidly evolving international security crisis.

in this content they develop risk analysis plans for designated stand-alone or joint actions for migrants or refugees' detection train staff members and border guard teams to work effectively invest in the development and use of innovative technologies develop best practices for migrants return operations and share information via online platforms and workshops.the composition of human body odour is the combination of vocs originating from both the exhaled breath and secreted sweat from the human skin.

hand-held breathalysers allow the instantaneous detection of drugs of abuse in the exhaled human breath of a suspect in situ .

recently cannabix technologies inc. and the yost group university of florida worked together and developed a lightweight hand-held device similar to the alcohol breathalysers based on field asymmetric ims for the detection of --trans-d9-tetrahydrocan- nabinol thc in human breath  .

specialised personnel sample preparation time and cost consuming in-field breath testing could be a fast and valid analytical methodology for law enforcement that will provide accurate confident and efficient sci- entific evidence of acquittal or guilt at the point-of- analysis.field-deployable chemical sensing technologies and instrumentationtraditionally canines are considered to be the gold- standard for threat and hidden human detection.

hand-held or stand-off distance analy- tical tools with real-time accurate gas sniffing and trace detection capabilities can accommodate the creation of human exposome storage databases and the use of breath and skin vocs as biometric identifiers along- side fingerprint face recognition and retinal scans.

