a caco-2bbe1 monolayers n 3 and intestinal organoids n 3 were treated with inulin 10 wv or scfos 10 wv for the indicated time periods 15-480 min and blotted for phospho-panpkc.b caco-2bbe1 monolayers were treated with varying doses 0-15 wv of inulin or scfos at 15 minutes of exposure n 4. c inulin 10 wv and scfos 10 wv induced phosphorylation of pkcd after 15 min exposure in caco-2bbe1 cells n 4. d in caco-2bbe1 cells pretreated with pkcd inhibitor rottlerin 1 3 and 5 mm 1 h inulin and scfos showed diminished phospho-panpkc response at 5 mm n 4. cells that were not treated with rottlerin were exposed to vehicle control 0.5 dmso solubilized in caco-2bbe1 medium.e stimulation of cells with either inulin or scfos 10 15 min no longer induced a phospho-panpkc response in the presence of pkcd sirna compared to prebiotic-treated cells with pkca sirna n 4. cells that were not treated with pkca or d sirna were treated with scrambled sirna provided by manufacturer in equal volumes of opti-mem and oligofectamine.

d transwell- grown intestinal organoids were incubated with inulin and scfos 10 16 h and then challenged with ehec moi100 10 h. both inulin and scfos increased the ter of ehec-challenged cells n 5-7. e ehec challenge was continued for 35 h to induce dextran permeability and signal intensities of translocation were measured from the basolateral culture media and expressed as percentage of ehec-control n 3. data are expressed as means -sem and tested using anova with bonferonni post-hoc testing p  0.05.figure 2. inulin and scfos regulate tj protein expression.

while both inulin and scfos induced mapk signaling in contrast to the effects observed using caco-2bbe1 cells the panpkc phosphorylation response to inulin or scfos was not evident using organoids.figure 4. inulin and scfos induce activation of host pkc signaling in a time- and dose-dependent manner.

ab in caco-2bbe1 cells pretreated with the broad spectrum pkc inhibitor go6893 1 10 100 nm 1 h rottlerin 1 3 and 5 mm 1 h or pkcd sirna inulin and scfos lost the capacity to maintain ter following ehec challenge n 4-5. c inulin and scfos failed to reduce ehec-inducedincreases in dextran permeability in the presence of pkcd inhibitor rottlerin but not go6893 or pkcd sirna n 4. d immunofluorescence microscopy of epithelial cells inhibited with go6893 rottlerin or pkcd sirna showed more disrupted zo-1 localization following inulin or scfos exposure with more punctate staining compared to prebiotic exposure in the absence of inhibitors or pkcd sirna n 3. e pkc inhibition with go6893 blocked prebiotic-mediated upregulation of zo-1 and occludin protein expression n 4. cells that were not treated with go6893 or rottlerin were treated with vehicle control 0.5 dmso solubilized in caco- 2bbe1 medium while for sirna experiments untreated cells were transfected with scrambled sirna provided by manufacturer in equal volumes of opti-mem and oligofectamine.

inulin quadra burlington canada and scfos nutraflora  nutrition gtc golden co are inulin-type fructan polymers that differ in chain lengths where scfos contains 2-9 degrees of polymerization dp of fructose monomers while inulin has a dp of 10. to treat cells inulin and scfos 1-15 wv were solubilized in pre-warmed antibiotic-free dulbecco's modified eagle medium for caco-2bbe1 cells or 2d culture medium for intestinal organoids formulation listed below.bacterial culture.

inulin and fos differ mainly in chain length with a degree of polymerization of greater than 10 for inulin and less than 10 for fos.the health-promoting benefits of prebiotics have been attributed mainly to indirect effects through either bifidogenic or anti-adhesive properties.

to check whether pkc is involved in prebiotic modulation of barrier function and tj expression we measured pkc activity in prebiotic-treatedfigure 1. inulin and scfos reduce ehec o157h7-induced barrier disruption in caco-2bbe1 monolayers.a polarized caco-2bbe1 monolayers were treated in duplicates with inulin or scfos 10 wv 16 h prior to infection with ehec 107 cfu 5 h. both prebiotics attenuated ehec-induced decrease in ter and maintained barrier function n 5. b fitc-dextran 10 kda was added apically to monolayers and signalintensities of translocation were measured from the basolateral culture media and expressed as absolute dextranquantities in nanograms n 5. c representative immunofluorescent micrographs of zo-1 organization in caco-2bbe1 monolayers n 3. fixed monolayers were labeled with rabbit anti-zo-1 green and dapi blue for nuclear staining.

one such strategy is the use of dietary prebiotics which are non-digestible food ingredients that resist absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and are fermented by selected intestinal microbes to stimulate the growth and activities of health-promoting gut microbes including lactobacilli and bifidobacteria.fructans are a group of carbohydrates that fall under the definition of prebiotics and include inulin and fruc- tooligosaccharides fos which are plant-derived polysaccharides comprised of fructose monomers connected via b2-1 glycosidic bonds linked to a terminal glucose residue.

these results demonstrate a specific and direct host-nutrient interaction and elucidate a novel mechanism whereby prebiotics maintain gut homeostasis to protect the host against chal- lenge by enteric pathogens.in this study we showed that the prebiotics inulin and scfos maintain ter and decrease dextran flux in an ehec injury model by upregulating occludin and zo-1 expression.

in the challenged state ehec decreased ter to 13.3 - 1.6 of baseline but pre-incubation with either inulin or scfos attenuated the ehec-induced decline in ter resulting in post-challenge ter of 49.9 - 3.7 and 48.9 - 5.6 for inulin and scfos respectively .

a caco-2bbe1 monolayers pretreated with inulin or scfos 10 wv 16 h and challenged with ehec 107 cfu 5 h showed no significant changes in claudin-1 mrna n 4 and protein levels n 3. b scfos increased zo-1 mrna levels in ehec-challenged cells and prevented the ehec-induced decline in zo-1 protein levels n 4 compared to inulin.neither inulin nor scfos affected occludin mrna expression n 4 but both significantly increased protein levels in both ehec-challenged and non-challenged cells n 4. relevant gel bands were cropped from the original blots.

here we demonstrate two commercial prebiotics inulin and short-chain fructo-oligosaccharide scfos when applied onto intestinal epithelia in the absence of microbes directly promote barrier integrity toprevent pathogen-induced barrier disruptions.

two commonly used commercial prebiotics inulin and scfos were employed and their1cell biology program research institute division of gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition hospital for sick children toronto ontario canada.

all values are presented as means -sem and tested using anova with bonferroni post-hoc testing denotes p 0.05. ctrl control veh vehicle scr scrambled.next to identify which pkc isoforms was targeted by prebiotics we determined the levels of phosphorylated isoforms a and d. following 15 min of exposure inulin and scfos induced phosphorylation of pkcd 4c but not pkca supplementary fig.

4. taken together these results indicate that pkcd activity is required for the protective effects of inulin and scfos on epithelial barrier integrity.discussionalthough it is generally recognized that prebiotics affect human health by altering the gut microbiota much less is known about the extent of direct effects on the host mucosal surface.

