studies on shallow-water communities have shown that prokaryotic communities associated with corals are species specific rohwer et al.

only sparse information on the prokaryotic community associated with corals from the upper meso- photic is available reviewed by olson and kellogg  and data from lower mces are virtually non-existent but see ainsworth et al.

these results are consistent with the widespread host specificity of prokaryotic community composition over space and time rohwer et al.

however might host the most favorable prokaryotic composition for the surrounding environment as also shown by pantos et al.

their exact function and metabolic potential remain elusive and require further investigation.the observed spatial dynamics in prokaryotic com- munity composition over depth for these three studied coral species closely resemble those reported earlier for their dominant symbiodinium communities as determined within the detection limits of its2-dgge by bongaerts et al.

although we cannot decisively differentiate between the effect of depth and the effects of the holobiont itself there is evidence that the holobiont symbiodinium andor coral host modulates the prokaryotic community associ- ated with the coral tissue ainsworth et al.

here we provide a first detailed assessment of the prokaryotic community associated with scleractinian corals over a depth gradient to the lower mesophotic realm 15-85 m. speci- mens of three caribbean coral species exhibiting differences in their depth distribution ranges agaricia grahamae madracis pharensis and stephanocoenia intersepta were collected with a manned submersible on the island of cur- acao and their prokaryotic communities assessed using 16srrna gene sequencing analysis.

corals with narrower depth distribution ranges depth-specialists were associated with a stable prokaryotic community whereas corals with a broader niche range depth-generalists revealed a higher variability in their prokaryotic community.

in this study we aimed at 1 determining whether the lower mesophotic corals host a distinct prokaryotic community or indicator assemblages and 2 addressing the respective roles of depth and host in prokaryotic community structure.materials and methodscoral specimens of agaricia grahamae wells 1973 madracis pharensis heller 1868 and stephanocoenia intersepta lamarck 1836 were collected in march-april 2013 at two locations on the leeward side of the island of curacao--buoy 01 and seaquarium--as part of the catlin seaview survey.

there were no significant differences in alpha diversity richness or evenness of the prokaryotic communities based on prokaryotic families among the three studied coral species or in response to depth within each species esm tables s3 s4 s5.

consequently the community com- position rather than alpha diversity is responsible for the observed variation in prokaryotic communities across sampling depths and among host species.tissue-associated prokaryotic community composition differed significantly permanova p  0.05 tables s6 s7 among a. grahamae m. pharensis and s. intersepta at a single depth 55 m which seems driven primarily by the large differences between a. grahamae and m. pharensis fig.

1 non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination visualizing the prokaryotic community structure based on relative abundance of prokaryotic families a among the three different host species for asingle depth at 55 m b c d within agaricia grahamae madracis pharensis and stephanocoenia intersepta respectively over their natural depth range at 15 55 and 85 mcommunity composition permanova p  0.01 esm table s14.

likely included a large portion of coral surface mucus whose associated prokaryotic communities are more exposed to the ambient reef environment and therefore more likely to vary spatially.452coral reefs 2017 36447-452this study provides the first detailed assessment of the prokaryotic community associated with multiple sclerac- tinian corals toward the lower mesophotic reef.

coral species with narrower depth dis- tribution ranges retained a stable prokaryotic community whereas corals with a broader depth distribution revealed higher taxonomic flexibility in their associated prokaryotic community.

pedro r. frade 1 department of limnology and bio-oceanography university of vienna althanstrasse 14 1090 vienna austria2 present address college of science and engineering australian institute of marine science aimsjcu james cook university townsville australia3 carmabi piscaderabaai zn po box 2090 willemstad curacao4 global change institute the university of queensland st. lucia qld 4072 australia5 arc centre of excellence for coral reef studies the university of queensland st. lucia qld 4072 australia6 department of marine microbiology and biogeochemistry nioz royal netherlands institute for sea research utrecht university po box 59 1790 ab den burg the netherlands7 centre of marine sciences ccmar university of algarve campus of gambelas 8005-139 faro portugalintroductionmesophotic coral ecosystems mces represent an exten- sion of shallow-water coral reefs and provide an extensive habitat for light-dependent corals in subtropicaltropical regions starting at 30-40 m and reaching down to depths of about 150 m lesser et al.

