mouse cafs cultured with tumor organoid-conditioned media also increased il6 and concomitantly lost acta2 expres- sion n. although to a lesser extent this pattern was also present in primary cafs isolated from human primary and metastatic pda samples when cultured with conditioned media from patient-matched tumor organoids o.previous studies have shown that pancreatic cancer cells induce il-6 secretion in fibroblasts and pscs and that pscs are a major source of il-6 in pda four data confirm this trait in cancer-naive pscs that are allowed to interact with cancer cells as well as in mouse and human pda-derived cafs.

electron micros- copy of co-cultures revealed the close relationship between cancer cells and pscs with only a thin gap filled with ma- trix separating the two cell types d. activated pscs deposited ecm e containing collagen i f that was organized into collagen fibrils g. thus our co-culture system is the first to recapitulate the desmoplastic reaction of pda in vitro with pscs converting from a resting quiescent state to activated stroma-producing cafs.pscs were nonproliferative until organoids were in- cluded in co-culture h and the co-cultures also promoted the proliferation of organoids i. moreover whereas organoid monocultures could be passaged indefi-nitely in complete media reduced media conditions precluded prolonged passaging of organoids un- less pscs were present in co-culture j. the mutual proliferative benefits for both epithelial cells and pscs are consistent with prior reports of similar symbiotic interactions that promote pda analysis by ish identified a clear distribution of asmahigh pscs surrounding the organoids in co-culture k recapitulating the in vivo finding of a subpopulation of fi- broblasts expressing high levels of asma mycafs in closeproximity to neoplastic cells this result alsosupports the premise that pscs are a source of myofibroblas- tic cafs in addition to bm-derived mesenchymal stem cells bm-mscs which have previously been reported to givefigure 2. co-cultures of mouse pscs and pancreatic cancer organoids recapitulate properties of pda desmoplasia.

bars 50 um.rise to myofibroblasts in cancer more- over this novel co-culture platform confirms the existence of cooperative interactions between cancer cells and pscs and provides a way for their systematic characterization.a population of cafs secretes inflammatory cytokines and loses myofibroblastic featuresto identify soluble factors that may mediate the symbiosis observed in co-culture we analyzed the secretome of psc and organoid co-cultures.we found that several secreted pro- teins including inflammatory cytokines and chemokines ma- trix remodeling proteins and growth factors were elevated specifically in co-culture a. one of the induced cy- tokines was interleukin 6 il-6 which has been reported to be up-regulated in pda and to promote cancer progression cachexia and immune suppression the increased cytokine production observed when tumor organoids and pscs are co-cultured could be the re- sult of a direct physical contact between these populations or alternatively it could be caused by paracrine signaling between them.

all three ligands robustly activated stat3 in organoids and this effect was prevented when neutralizing antibodies against each ligand were added h. interestingly il-6 was able to strongly activate stat3 in tumor organoids in contrast to studies using acinar cells isolated from krasg12d mice that concluded that il-6 trans-signaling is necessary to mediate robust stat3 activa- tion in pancreatic tumor cells stat3 was also activated by the addition of co-culture conditioned media to tumor organoids in monoculture and this activation was again blocked by addition of neutralizing antibodies with the anti-il-6 neutralizing antibody having the most prom- inent effect i.as stat3 activation is known to control cell survival and proliferation we investigated its role in co-culture by using crisprcas9 gene editing to knockout il-6 in two psc lines.

s1 k. interestingly whereas organoids co-cultured with wt pscs showed as expected prolonged passaging ability in reduced media conditions compared with monocultured organoids continued passaging of organoids was impaired in co-cultures with il-6-deficient pscs j.these re- sults demonstrate that tumor organoids in co-culture activate pscs to secrete multiple factors which in turn activate sig- naling pathways in organoids that sustain survival.to further investigate the secretory phenotype of or- ganoid-activated pscs we exposed quiescent pscs to organ- oid-conditioned media fig.

indeed the current systemic therapies for patients with advanced pda provide only temporary benefits highlighting the need for new therapeutic strategies.pda is characterized by abundant desmoplasia that con- stitutes up to 90 of the total tumor volume and contains extracellular matrix ecm immune cells vasculature andcancer-associated fibroblasts cafs cafs secrete ecm and soluble factors that stimulate cancer pro- gression and are believed to be derived from mesenchymal cells of different origins that are resident or recruited to the pancreas by neoplastic cells a major source of cafs in pda is pan- creatic stellate cells pscs which are resident mesenchymal cells of the pancreas that store lipid droplets and express fibro-blast-activation protein a fap upon activa- tion pscs express the myofibroblast protein a-smooth mus- cle actin asma gene name acta2 and secrete factors thatd.

immunofluorescence analysis of fap a psc marker and asma expression in human pda tissues revealed that the majority of fibroblasts expressed fap and low levels of asma whereas a subpopulation of fap cells showed substantially elevated expression levels of asma a. these fap asmahigh cells could also be delin- eated by rna in situ hybridization ish and were locatedin direct proximity to neoplastic cells forming a periglandular ring surrounding cancer cell clusters b. a gradient of asma expression was similarly observed in tumors from kpckraslsl-g12d trp53lsl-r172h pdx-1-cre mice d a mouse model that recapitulates the human dis- ease as a result of the selective high expression of asma we refer to these periglandular fapasmahigh fibroblasts as myofibroblastic cafs mycafs.to exclude the possibility that mycafs are neoplasticcells that have undergone epithelial-to-mesenchymal transi- tion emt we analyzed tissues of a kpcy mouse model in which all neoplastic pancreatic cells express yellow fluores- cent protein yfp periglandular cells ex- pressing high asma levels did not coexpressyfp confirmingthat mycafs are of a nonneoplastic origin e. thesefindings identify mycafs as a distinct subpopulation of cafs with a unique spatial distribution pattern in pda.a novel three-dimensional co-culture platform recapitulates in vivo caf heterogeneityto further characterize cafs in pda we studied pscs which are believed to be a major source of fap cafs in pda stroma quiescent and lipid-storing pscs were isolated from wt c57bl6j mice pancreata fig.

although cancer-naive pscs embedded alone in matrigel re- mained quiescent pscs in co-culture with tumor organoids acquired a caf phenotype demonstrated by morphologi- cal activation with cellular extensions in close contact with tumor organoids b. importantly freshly isolated and nonimmortalized pscs seeded directly in matrigel showedfigure 1. high expression of asma is a distinctive property of periglandular cafs in mouse and human pda.

br ief definitive reportdistinct populations of inflammatory fibroblasts and myofibroblasts in pancreatic cancerdaniel ohlund123 abram handly-santana12 giulia biffi12 ela elyada12 ana s. almeida14 mariano ponz-sarvise125vincenzo corbo1267 tobiloba e. oni128 stephen a. hearn1eun jung lee12 iok in christine chio12 chang-il hwang12 herve tiriac12 lindsey a. baker12 dannielle d. engle12 christine feig9 anne kultti9 mikala egeblad1 douglas t. fearon1james m. crawford10 hans clevers11youngkyu park12 and david a. tuveson121cold spring harbor laboratory and 2lustgarten foundation pancreatic cancer research laboratory cold spring harbor ny 117243department of surgical and perioperative sciences surgery umea university 901 85 umea sweden 4apc microbiome institute and school of microbiology university college cork cork ireland 5department of oncology clinica universidad de navarra cima idisna pamplona 31008 spain6arc-net centre for applied research on cancer and 7department of diagnostic and public health university and hospital trust of verona 37134 verona italy8graduate program in molecular and cellular biology stony brook university stony brook ny 117949university of cambridge cancer research uk cambridge institute cambridge uk10hofstra northwell school of medicine hempstead ny 1155011hubrecht institute royal netherlands academy of arts and sciences knaw university medical centre utrecht and cancergenomics.nl 3584 ct utrecht netherlandspancreatic stellate cells pscs differentiate into cancer-associated fibroblasts cafs that produce desmoplastic stroma thereby modulating disease progression and therapeutic response in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma pda.

such heteroge- neity has previously been unappreciated likely due to the fact that monolayers of fibroblasts uniformly express highlevels of asma in culture.notably the marked drop in bulk asma expression induced by organoid-conditioned media k con-trasted with the presence of cafs expressing high levels of asma in proximity to neoplastic cells observed in co-cul- tures k and in vivo we therefore hypothesized the coexistence of two distinct subtypes of cafs in co-culture and pda tissue one being asmahighil-6low and proximal to the neoplastic cells mycafs andthe other being asmalow il-6high induced by paracrine sig- naling from the tumor compartment and more distantly dis- tributed throughout the tumor.

s2 l demonstrating the mutual exclusivityof these two markers.we further confirmed the purity of the three sorted cell populations by qpcr for additional fibro- blast epithelial and immune markers and demonstrated that pdgfra cafs contain the majority of il-6 transcripts inpda d. additionally we found that il-11 mrna isalso predominantly present in cafs further supporting the presence of an inflammatory caf phenotype d.to investigate the spatial distribution of il-6high cafs in vivo immunohistochemical analysis of kpc tumor tissue was performed.

jaks in turn phosphorylate and activate sig- nal transducer and activator of transcription stat factors most notably stat3 which plays key roles in cell growth and proliferation immunofluo- rescence staining revealed detectable activation of stat3 in kpc tumors both in cancer cells and the surrounding stroma g. to confirm that tumor organoids activate stat3 in response to paracrine stimuli we measured stat3 phos- phorylation in organoids after the addition of recombinant il-6 il-11 and lif to the media.

we termed these asmalow il-6high cafs inflammatory cafs icafs for their cyto-kine-secreting properties.cafs coexist as two mutually exclusive and reversible subtypesto determine whether distinct caf subtypes coexist in co-culture flow cytometry was used to detect asma and il-6 expression in pscs co-cultured with tumor organoids fig.

in total two il-6 ko lines and two control lines were made from two parental psc lines.co-culture and passaging of tumor organoids and cafsfor co-cultures mouse or human organoids were split at a 16 ratio and mixed with 1x104 pscs or cafs seeded in matrigel and cultured in dmem containing 5 fbs and 1 penicillinstreptomycin.

importantly secreted factors from icafs such as il-6 likely contribute to systemic effects in pda patients such as cachexia and immune sup- pression f in summary we have identified two spatially sepa- rated reversible and mutually exclusive subtypes of cafs d. icafs which are activated by paracrine factors secreted from cancer cells are located more distantly from neoplastic cells within the dense tumor stroma.

