Both L. reuteri strains were able to inhibit the growth of five of the tested Candida strains but not the two C. krusei strains.

In general L. reuteri DSM 17938 was significantly better at inhibiting the growth of the Candida strains than L. reuteri PTA 5289 was p 0.001 the latter showed no complete inhibition of any of the Candida strains.

Co-aggregation ratio  between Candida strains and the Lactobacillus reuteri strains after 4 h of incubation.

Growth inhibition of six clinical isolates and six reference Candida strains by two strains of the probiotic Lactobacillus reuteri at different cell concentrations.Inhibition scores according to Simark-Mattsson et al.

In this study both L. reuteri strains were able to inhibit the growth of most of the Candida strains except for C. krusei and to some extent C. tropicalis.

reuteri ATCC PTA 5289 and L. reuteri DSM 17938 showed the ability to co-aggregate with both clinicaland reference Candida strains.

For C. tropicalis CCUG 47037 an even weaker inhibition tendency was observed at high L. reuteri DSM 17938 cell concentrations compared with lower cell concentra- tions whereas C. glabrata CBS 863 was completelyinhibited at high L. reuteri DSM 17938 cell con- centrations compared with slight inhibition at lower concentrations.Bacterial acid production measured by phTypical results of the pH microsensor measurements in the agar overlay cultures of the lactobacilli and Candida strains and control plates are shown in and .

Hence superior interference of L. reuteri DSM 17938 must likely be explained by other factors such as an enhanced H2O2 or reuterin production which has been sug- gested in other studies .It is likely that the observed inhibition of the yeasts is caused by the acidic environment in the agar due to lactic acid and other organic acids produced by the two L. reuteri strains either directly or due to the production of bacteriocins at low pH .

For all the tested Candida strains L. reuteri PTA 5289 showed a statistically significantly higher co-aggregation ratio than L. reuteri DSM 17938 after4 h incubation p 0.001.

The Candida strains used were six laboratory reference strains from the Culture Collection University of Gothenburg Sweden C. albicans CCUG 46390 C. dubliniensis CCUG 48722C.

