a. al-homaidan j. a. alabdullatif a. a. al-hazzani a. a. al-ghanayem and a. f. alabbad adsorptive removal of cad- mium ions by spirulina platensis dry biomass saudi journal of biological sciences vol.

c elekli m. yavuzatmaca and h. bozkurt an eco-friendly process predictive modelling of copper adsorption from aque- ous solution on spirulina platensis journal of hazardous materials vol.

cain r. vannela and l. k. woo cyanobacteria as a biosorbent for mercuric ion bioresource technology vol.

dalay equilibrium thermodynamic and kinetic studies for the biosorption of aqueous leadii cadmiumii and nickelii ions on spirulina platensis journal of hazardous materials vol.

binding characteristics of copper and cadmium by cyanobacterium spirulina platensis journal of hazardous materials vol.

leb 18 journal of colloid and interface science vol.

k. singh a. rahman k. dixit a. nath and s. sundaram evaluation of promising algal strains for sustainable exploita- tion coupled with co2 fixation environmental technology vol.

nitrification and microalgae cultivation for two-stage biological nutrient val- orization from source separated urine bioresource technology vol.

r. siva kiran g. m. madhu and s. v. satyanarayana spiru- lina in combating protein energy malnutrition pem and protein energy wasting pew--a review journal of nutrition research vol.

w. b. holman and a. e. o. malau-aduli spirulina as a live- stock supplement and animal feed journal of animal physiol- ogy and animal nutrition vol.

a systematic review and meta-analysis of the impact of spirulina supplementation on plasma lipid concentrations clinical nutrition vol.

iyer uma a. sophia and v. mani uliyar glycemic and lipemic responses of selected spirulina supplemented rice- based recipes in normal subjects international journal of diabetes in developing countries vol.

v. torres-duran a. ferreira-hermosillo and m. a. juarez- oropeza antihyperlipemic and antihypertensive effects of spirulina maxima in an open sample of mexican population a preliminary report lipids in health and disease vol.

iwata t. inayama and t. kato effects of spirulina platensis on plasma lipoprotein lipase activity in fructose-induced hyper- lipidemic rats journal of nutritional science and vitaminology vol.

muthuraman r. senthilkumar and k. srikumar alterations in beta-islets of langerhans in alloxan-induced diabetic rats by marine spirulina platensis journal of enzyme inhibition and medicinal chemistry vol.

