in contrast to b cell-deficient mice infected animals that lack ab t cells or were depleted of cd4 cells failed to accumulate naive b cells in their draining meslns figure 3b c.mesln from hp-infected do11.10 mice containing a monoclonal population of cd4 tcells specific for chicken ovalbumin also failed to accumulate naive b cells figure 3d indicating that not just cd4 t cells per se but activation of this population by cognate antigen was required.king et al.page 4lymphotoxin-b receptor signaling is required for naive lymphocyte accumulationbecause naive lymphocyte accumulation required cd4 t cell activation but was not required for the increase in il-4 effector cd4 t cells after 1 week of infection we sought to identify factors that regulated naive t cell accumulation independent of the th2 response.

comparing immunized mice with or without concurrent hp infection the frequency of class-switched igd- np-specific b cells was similar between groups suggesting that activation of antigen-specific b cells on a per cell basis was not compromised figure 6a and supplemental figure 2. in contrast the absolute number of np-specific b cells in immunized mice infected with hp was significantly decreased compared to uninfected controls figure 6b.

data are representative of two independent experiments.figure 3. cd4 t cell activation is required for naive b lymphocyte accumulationa b cell deficient jhd mice and balbc wt controls were infected with hp or remained uninfected and the number of naive phenotype cd4 t cells in the mesln was analyzed 2 wk later.

to determine whether b cells also contribute to naive t cell accumulation in a th2-dominanted immune response balbc or b cell-deficient jhd mice were infected with hp and naive t cells were enumerated in the mesln 2 weeks later.

b t cell deficient tcra ko mice and balbc wt controls were infected with hp or remained naive and the number of naive phenotype cd19 b cells in the mesln was analyzed 2 wk later.

however again we did not observe any difference in the number of il-4 effector cd4 t cells at this time point figure 2a b. collectively these data indicated that the accumulation of naive t cells in the reactive mesln beginning one week after infection does not affect il-4 effector cd4 t cell response and that the reactive mesln represents a sustained reservoir for naive lymphocytes due to an increased homeostatic set-point.cd4 t cell activation is required for naive b lymphocyte accumulationa previous study using subcutaneous immunization with antigen in th1-polarizing cfa adjuvant demonstrated that b cells were important for ln enlargement4.

however we also found b cells to be dispensable for naive t cell accumulation indicating an additional source of ltbr ligand that compensates for b cell production of ltb.

in addition experiments using mice deficient in tnfa or type i interferon receptor ifnar signals two pathways previously shown to promote ln hyperplasia1617 demonstrated that these factors were not only dispensable for naive lymphocyte accumulation following hp infection but may actually exert regulatory effects at least on t cell accumulation figure 4c d and supplemental figure 3a b.lymphotoxin b receptor ltbr has been previously shown to play a role in type 2 immunity following hp infection and mice deficient in the ltbr ligands experience compromised ln hyperplasia following subcutaneous immunization with cfa18-20.

1 week after hp infection figure 1 we blocked lt signaling by administering ltbr-ig on days 7 and 10 and assessed naive t cell accumulation and the il-4 effector cd4 t cell response on day 14. compared to control animals naive t and b cells failed to accumulate in the mesln of ltbr-ig-treated mice figure 4e.

using cd19igdcd44lo b cells as a readout for naive lymphocyte accumulation balbc tcra -deficient balbc and cd4 t cell-depleted balbc mice were infected with hp and the number of naive b cells was determined 2 weeks later.

although the thymus generates new naive t lymphocytes and the spleen contains a large number of naive t and b cells that could potentially be recruited to inflamed sites neither thymectomy nor splenectomy of adult mice prior to infection affected the accumulation of naive t and b cells unpublished observations.

ns not significant p  .05 p  .001.figure 4. lymphotoxin-b receptor signaling is required for naive lymphocyte accumulation a b il-4ra deficient and wt balbc 4get mice were infected with hp or remained naive and the number of naive a or il-4gfp effector b cd4 t cells in the meslnwas analyzed at 2 wk post-infection.

2006 the number of naive t cells was not decreased in the absence of b cells but in fact increased compared to wt controls suggesting a potential regulatory role for b lymphocytes in naive t cell accumulation figure 3a.

b ova-specific cd4 t cells from thy1.2 do11.10 mice were transferred into uninfected or day 11 hp infected thy1.1 congenic mice.

analysis on day 14 post-infection revealed a dramatic reduction in naive t and b cell accumulation as measured by a gfp-cd44lo or igdcd44lo phenotype in lieu of cd62l respectively in the mesln of infected mice figure 2a however no significant defect in the number of il-4 effector cd4 t cells was observed figure 2b.

