in addition to compartment sampling site pseudo-f 4.0646 p  0.001 and region pseudo-f  6.5495 p  0.001 both had significant effects on the bacterial community structures although these factors had less impact than compartment table 3. permanova performed on each of the compartments separately revealed that region and sampling site had the greatest influence on the structure of bulk soil communities pseudo-f  9.1503 p  0.001 and pseudo-f  7.6707 p  0.001 respectively with their influence decreasing for the rhizosphere pseudo-f  5.9962 p  0.001 and pseudo-f  5.0728 p  0.001 respectively and endosphere pseudo-f  2.7877 p  0.001 and pseudo- f  2.1418 p  0.001 respectively table 3. interestingly region shaped community structures more than sampling site for all compartments indicating an impact of bioclimatic conditions table 3. thus in further analyses we focused on comparing communities from the different regions and plant species.plant species and region both impact endosphere bacterial community structurespermanova identified both plant species and geographic region as significant drivers of the community structures of the rhizosphere soil communities permanova p  0.01 but region pseudo-f  5.8857 had more impact on the differences than plant species pseudo-f  2.9879 table 3. in contrast while plant species region and their interactionall had significant impact on endosphere community structures permanova p  0.01 plant species had stronger impact on the differences between the communities pseudo-f  4.0332 than region or interaction between these factors pseudo-f 2.9678 and pseudo-f  1.6249 respectively table 3. the endosphere communities from all three regions being relatively similar to each other tended to diverge based on plant species o. digyna or s. oppositifolia on the first two axes in the pcoa ordination figure 5c while we did not observe plant species specific clustering in the pcoa of the corresponding rhizosphere communities data not shown.on the basis of the above analyses we found partial support for our hypothesis that plant species strongly shape the plant-associated bacterial communities as this factor emerged as the major albeit not the only significant driver of the endosphere bacterial community structures over multiple sites and several regions climate zones.

significantly eleven of these core otus all except otus 171 and 429 table 5 were among the main drivers of the divergence of the endosphere communities of the two plant species table 4. they also explained the differences between the endosphere and the soil bacterial communities and those between the endosphere communities in the different geographical regions table 4. of the 13 core otus 11 were predominantly present in the plant associated compartments as over 75 of their reads were detected in the endosphere and over 80 in the endo- or rhizosphere figure 7.discussionfactors shaping the bacterial diversity in soils across three climatic regionsin this study we examined the bacterial communities in three regions spanning over 3000 km in distance i.e.

pseudo-f and p- values or t and p- values from permanova are given for each factor and group pair respectively.the increased relative abundances of proteobacteria in mayrhofen acidobacteria and ad3 in kilpisjarvi and actinobacteria in ny-alesund were also consistent in the communities in the different compartments bulk soil rhizosphere soil endosphere supplementary file s2 with the exception of ad3 which was present at very low abundances in the endosphere 0.9 in all three regions table 2. additionally the relative abundances of firmicutes in the endosphere samples increased with increasing latitude being lowest in mayrhofen and highest in ny-alesund.firmicutes proteobacteria and bacteroidetes dominate endosphere communitiesbacterial community structures were clearly different in the different compartments at the phylum level permanova pseudo-f  64.371 p  0.001 table 2. these differences were mainly driven by strong relative enrichment of firmicutes in the endosphere-derived sequence data sets compared to their very low abundances in the bulk and rhizosphere soils figure 4 table 2. the relative abundances of proteobacteria and bacteroidetes increased progressively from bulk to rhizosphere soil to the endosphere with a concomitant decrease in those of candidate division ad3 gemmatimonadetes and chloroflexi which collectively constituted 4 of endosphere communities table 2 figure 4b.

these were also identified as the main otus responsible for plant species specific community structures in the simper analysis table 4. in addition to the shared bacterial taxa 162 otus 1749 reads 1.1 of the total endosphere reads and 57 otus 879 reads 0.6 were observed only in o. digyna and s. oppositifolia respectively figure 6a.table 4  twenty key otus shaping the endosphere communities in o. digyna and s. oppositifolia in the three regions identified by simper contributions of variables to similarity analysis.numerical values indicate  contribution of the respective otus in determining the difference in community composition between endosphere and rhizosphere between o. digyna ands.

2001. we focused on the root endophytic bacteria and also examined the bacterial communities in the relevant rhizosphere and bulk soil samples.we hypothesized that 1 geographic region related to climate zone determines the diversity and community structure of the soil bacterial communities in the selected habitats and 2 plants strongly shape the plant-associated communities resulting in plant species specificity regardless of the geographic region.

this trend was similar in all threegeographic regions.the divergence of the endosphere communities from the soil communities was also evident at the class level.

the latter were dominated by the class actinobacteria class ordercontinuedand family level analyses in supplementary file s2.compartment impacts bacterial diversity and community structures more than geographic region or sampling sitethe diversity values of the endosphere communities analyzed at the otu level were significantly lower than those of the bulk or rhizosphere soil communities figure 2a.

clearly even though the bulk soil bacterial communities were influenced by region and sampling site which may relate to soil edaphic factors the plant endospheres shared similar bacterial endophytes across the three regions.this points to a strong and specific filtering effect of the two pioneering plants that were studied allowing similar bacteria to colonize plants from the widely divergent soils in different regions.as a token of the plant-incited filtering effect members of the proteobacteria actinobacteria bacteroidetes and firmicutes dominated the endosphere bacterial communities.

the higher relative abundances of clostridia in ny-alesund and rhizobia in mayrhofen in the endosphere communities is one such example as discussed above.in summary we here report that on the basis of data obtained with two plant species host plant-specific endophytic communities can be acquired despite a distance of over 3000 km and differences in climate and chemistry between soils.

oppositifolia endosphere communities in all three regions constituting a major portion of thesewe examined the bacterial taxa that were highly conserved belonging to the tight core in the o. digyna or s. oppositifolia endospheres using as a criterion otus present in at least three out of four endosphere samples per plant species across all sampling sites and regions.

oppositifolia had similar sr and si indices in the rhizo- as well as the endosphere communities.also the community structures of the endosphere bacterial communities differed clearly from those of the bulk and rhizosphere soil ones across all three regions as demonstrated by pcoa figure 5a.

this was supported by permanova where compartment was identified as a significant and strong driver of the differences between bacterial community structures pseudo-f  30.962p  0.001 table 3. pair-wise analyses of the community structures supported the pcoa analyses with significant p 0.001 differences between the endosphere and bulk soil endosphere and rhizosphere and rhizosphere and bulk soil communities and t-values of 6.339 6.39 and 3.134 respectively.

alternatively their absence from the previous data sets might be due to different 16s rrna targeting primers used in the different studies.table 5  highly conserved core otus of o. digyna and s. oppositifolia endospheres.otu phylaclassorderfamilygenusspecies additional core otus of s. oppositifoliaotus present in minimum of three endosphere samples out of four in all sampling sites in all regions per plant species are included.compartment is the primary driver of bacterial community structuresa striking observation was that both o. digyna and s. oppositifolia sampled in any of the three regions exhibited quite similar endosphere bacterial communities.

here we hypothesized that the bacterial communities associated with pioneer plants in these regions have major roles in plant health support and this is reflected in the formation of climate and host plant specific endophytic communities.

75 915-924. doi berg g. and smalla k. 2009. plant species and soil type cooperatively shape the structure and function of microbial communities in the billings w. and mooney h. 1968. the ecology of arctic and alpine plants.

