however there was a positive effect on the asthma control ques- tionnaire score in the high-reversibility subgroup post-bronchodila- tor fev1 improvement 20. as the significance of this effect is currently not known further studies are required to unravel the complexities of the contribution of il-17 to asthma pathogenesis.il-31il-31 is constitutively expressed by non-hematopoietic cells such as the lung epithelium and is also selectively produced by activated cd4 t cells skewed towards th2 cytokine production.

however more recent stud- ies indicate that il-25 can be produced by a great variety of cells including eosinophils basophils mast cells macrophages epithelial cells and tuft cells among others highlighting its importance as an initiator of th2 responses.

fibroblast responses to il-4 and il-13 contribute indirectly to the lung remodeling that occurs in chronic asthma by eliciting the production of adhesion molecules and chemokines as well as cytokines that then stimulate epithelial cells to secrete tgf-b1.the eosinophilia observed in asthma and allergic diseases is par- tially controlled by the th2 cytokine il-5.

the activity of il-4 and il-13 on the structural cells of the lung such as vascu- lar endothelial cells and airway epithelial cells elicits the expres- sion of adhesion molecules chemokines and transforming growth factor tgf-b production.

although the critical role of antigen-presenting cell interactions with cd4 t cells in the differentiation of naive t cells into type-2 cytokine-producing cells has long been appreciatednew informa- tion is emerging regarding the complex regulation of dc-t cell interactions that result in th2 immune responses.

in addition to potential nuclear func- tions il-33 is released primarily from endothelial and epithelial cells and binds its functional receptor on a variety of cells includ- ing mast cells eosinophils and ilc2s.

understanding this delicate balance and how it is disturbed in asthma may inform the development of novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of asthma.il-4ragiven the importance of il-4ra in triggering th2 inflammation and the strong association between polymorphisms in this gene and asthma risk understanding the mechanisms by which il-4ra expression is controlled is critical.

a randomized controlled phase iia trial showed that treatment with dupilumab sar231893regn668 nct01312961 prevented asthma exacerbations when long-acting b-agonists and inhaled corticosteroid were withheld in patients with moderate-to-severe asthma as compared to placebo.

in contrast many but not all studies suggest that ykl-40 is increased in severe asthma andor neutrophilic asthma.

this appears to have direct relevance to asthma as snps at the human dennd1b locus have been associated with increased th2 responses and asthma in young children.e3 ubiquitin ligase regulation of th2 cellsrecent studies suggest that e3 ubiquitin ligases are critical regu- lators of t cell activation and cytokine production.

blockade of il-17ra with broda- lumab a human anti-il-17ra monoclonal antibody in subjects with inadequately controlled moderate-to-severe asthma taking regular inhaled corticosteroids did not have a significant impact on asthma.

blockade of the il-25 receptor il-17ra in bronchial rings from donors with asthma significantly reduced acetylcholine-induced contraction com- pared to that seen in donors without asthma.

although these studies suggested that blocking il-17ra in asthma might be promising studies with the anti-il-17ra monoclonal antibodybrodalumab have failed to show benefit in asthma implying that blocking il-25 alone is insufficient to modify disease.il-33.

asthma endotypes a new approach to classification of disease entities within the asthma syndrome.

this common subtype of asthma is characterized by the release of signature cytokines interleukin il-4 il-5 and il-13 from cells of both the innate and the adap- tive immune systems.

