in this context linear ion trap quadru- pole-orbitrap-mass spectrometry ltq-orbitrap-ms provides single- stage mass analysis delivering molecular mass information two-stage mass analysis msms and multi-stage mass analysis msn allowing structural information.

mass molecular formula mf mda of error between the mass found and the accurate mass of each polyphenol and the ms-ms fragments ions used for identification.shows the list of 77 compounds identified in the collected urine samples along with their retention times rt accurate mass mea- surements acc.

.vallverdu-queralt a. jauregui o. medina-remon a. andres-lacueva c.  lamuela- raventos r. m. 2010. improved characterization of tomato polyphenols using liq- uid chromatographyelectrospray ionization linear ion trap quadrupole orbitrap mass spectrometry and liquid chromatographyelectrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry.

journal of agricultural and food chemistry 57 1084-1092. http dx.doi.org.avarez-fernadez m. a. cerezo a. b. canete-rodriguez a. m. troncoso a. m.  garcia- parrilla m. c. 2015. composition of nonanthocyanin polyphenols in alcoholic- fermented strawberry products using lc -ms qtrap high-resolution ms uhplc-orbitrap-ms lc-dad and antioxidant activity.

thereafter 1 ml of hydrochloric acid 0.1 m was added to 1 ml of gp or 1 ml of each urine sample which were then filtered through a 0.22 mm ptfe membrane filter.lc-high resolution mass spectrometry and experimental conditionsan ltq orbitrap velos mass spectrometer thermo scientific hemel hempstead uk equipped with an esi source working in negative mode was used for accurate mass measurements.

mass molecular formula mf mda of error between the mass found and the accurate mass of each polyphenol and the ms- ms fragments ions used for identification.phenolic acidshydroxybenzoic acids and derivativesall of the spectra generated for benzoic showed the deprotonated molecule m-h-.

.panighel a. de rosso m. dalla vedova a.  flamini r. 2015. putative identification of new p-coumaroyl glycoside flavonoids in grape by ultra-high performance liquid chromatographyhigh-resolution mass spectrometry.

2011. tresserra-rimbau a. rimm e. b. medina-remon a. martinez-gonzalez m. a. de la torre r. corella d. ... lamuela-raventos r. m. 2014. inverse association between habitual polyphenol intake and incidence of cardiovascular events in the predimed study.

overall high resolution mass spectrometry hr-ms enhances the identification of a large variety of polyphenols and their metabolites with great mass accuracies for all molecular ions.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionthe mediterranean lifestyle has often been defined as a healthy way of living with the consumption of cereals fruits vegetables and red wine playing a central role .

the observed isomers were 2-hydroxyphenylacetic 3-hydroxyphenylacetic 4- hydroyphenylacetic and 2-hydroxy-2-phenylacetic some of them con- firmed by standards.table 1identification of phenolic metabolites in the gp through ltq-orbitrap-ms.a analytes compare with pure standards rt retention time mda millidalton of error between the mass found and the accurate mass of each polyphenol.homovanillic acid 4-sulfate mz 261.0074 was also identified in the ion trap quadrupole system as revealed by a neutral loss scan of 80 u corresponding to the sulfate unit.in these terms the formation of hydroxyphenylacetic acids has been described through a-oxidation the cleavage of the upper unit of dimeric procyanidins or via ring fission of quercetin degradation by the colonic microflora .hydroxyphenylpropionic acids and derivativesas in several recent studies investigating a complete phenolic profile in grapes or wine hyroxyphenylpropionic acid and its metabolites were not been identified in the gp .

the loss of co2 m-h-44- was observed.several studies have revealed changes in the urinary excretion of mi- crobial-derived phenolic acids after the intake of red wine or grapetable 2identification of phenolic metabolites in the urine of volunteers through ltq-orbitrap-ms.3-hydroxyphenylacetic aciddihydrocaffeic acid 3-o-glucuronidec16h20o10continued on next pagetable 2 continueda analytes compare with pure standards rt retention time mda millidalton of error between the mass found and the accurate mass of each polyphenol.products.

therefore this instrument is useful for the characterization of molecules with a wide range of mass is crucial for elucidating com- pounds in complex matrices and provides very good mass accuracies with low errors.phenolic compounds were confirmed by comparing with pure stan- dards whenever possible and highly sought scientific references.

natural product reports 268 1001-1043. org.di lecce g. arranz s. jauregui o. tresserra-rimbau a. quifer-rada p.  lamuela- raventos r. m. 2014. phenolic profiling of the skin pulp and seeds of albarino grapes using hybrid quadrupole time-of-flight and triple-quadrupole mass spectrometry.

.lopez-gutierrez n. romero-gonzalez r. martinez vidal j. l.  frenich a. g. 2016. de- termination of polyphenols in grape-based nutraceutical products using high resolu- tion mass spectrometry.

.prasain j. k. peng n. dai y. moore r. arabshahi a. wilson l. ... watts r. l. 2009. liq- uid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry identification of proanthocyanidins in rat plasma after oral administration of grape seed extract.

