tma itself is absorbed and readily oxidized to trimethylamine-n-oxide tmao by hepatic flavin-containing monoox- ygenases fmos .thus tmao is an indirect measure of the generated pc breakdown product tma in the gut.

s-4532013.determination of tmao and tma levels in plasmatmao and tma were analysed by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry esi-msms as described previously with some modifications  .

in the second step total tma was determined as the sum of free and oxidized tma.

p  0.05 was considered as statistically significant and p  0.001 was considered highly significant.resultsafter the application of each of the pc preparations dose of 6.9 g plasma and urinary tma concentrations were not detectable in the plasma or were low 9 mmolmol creatinine n- oxidation capacity  90 respectively and not statistically different between the examined conditions indicating that tma was rapidly oxidized to tmao by the liver with normal fmo3 enzymatic activity .

the determined tmao and tma levels are summarized in .statistical analyses of tmao and tma levels determined in both body fluids plasma and urine focused on 2 different aspects 1 changes of these compounds as a shape comparison over time chronological sequence of increase maximum and decrease evaluation by 2-tailed anova with repeated measures p-values given in the text and 2 comparison of the observed levels at each time point depending on the different pc loadings.

tmao originates from the microbiota- dependent breakdown of food-derived phosphatidylcholine pc to trimethylamine tma which is oxidized by hepatic flavin-containing monooxygenases to tmao.

our aim was to investigate the predominant site of absorption of the bacterial pc-breakdown product tma.

plasma and urine concentrations of tma and tmao were determined by electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry plasma and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry urine.

our results showed that the microbiota in the small intestine generated the pc breakdown product tma.

however this simple assumption that absorption occurs only in the small intestine is often neglected and textbooks still propose the colon as an absorptive organ also for ammonium.recently it was reported that in the gut the bacterial breakdown of choline-containing nutrients mainly lecithin generates trimethylamine tma in the human liver  .

some species of bacteroidetes particularly b. thetaiotaomicron and b. fragilismay be involved in tma formation because they express phospholipases that hydrolyse die- tary pc to choline .

in addition it was reported that bacteria from the erysipelotrichia class firmicutes phylum can produce tma from choline .

this contention is challenged by data presented in this report where the generation and absorption site of the pc breakdown product tma was evaluated after exposure of a healthy volunteer to native and delayed-release pc preparations.

it indeed showed that tma is produced and absorbed only by the small intestine.materials and methodspc application to probandfor this proof-of-principle study an individual healthy volunteer male 60 years 185 cm 82 kg no disease no medication no diet was chosen to reduce individual differences in metabo- lism determined by the genetic make-up dietary habits and microbiota.

data was obtained by multiple reaction monitoring mz 75.958.0 for tmao and mz 84.666.0 for d9-tmao mz 146.1118.1 for tma and mz 155.1127.1 for d9-tma.

