although risk factors of cdi in ibd have been poorly investigated some authors found that ulcerative colitis compared to crohn's disease and more generally colonic involvement were associated with cdi in a previous retrospective study we observed that intake of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs nsaids within the two months before admission for ibd flare was a risk factor for cdi importantly cdi has been associated with poor ibd outcome with increased severity of relapse longer hospital stay higher rate of colectomy and mortality moreover toxin- producing cdi can trigger or worsen an ibd flare and the diagnosis should thus be done as soon as possible in order to start the appro-1590-8658c 2017 editrice gastroenterologica italiana s.r.l.

conversely eias for toxins have a low sensitivity and are thus not recommended as a standalone detec- tion method the efficacy of these diagnostic methods in ibd populations is not well characterized.the aims of our prospective study were to look for clinical pre- dictive factors of cdi in patients hospitalized for ibd flare and to evaluate a rapid testing strategy in this population.patients and methodsstudy populationall consecutive patients with ibd hospitalized for flare in the gastroenterology department of the saint antoine hospital paris france from september 2012 to may 2014 were prospectively tested for c. difficile infection.

our study has several limitations including insufficient sample size to detect factors with small effect on cdi risk and the impossibility to evaluate the long term effect of cdi on ibd outcome.one of the limitations of our study is that it is performed in asingle tertiary centre and thus the results might not be generaliz- able.the high frequency of cdi in patients hospitalized for ibd flare and its potential severity in ibd populations require a strategy to rapidly test for cdi and start an appropriate treatment.

digestive and liver disease 49 2017 643-646alimentary tractclostridium difficile infection in acute flares of inflammatory bowel disease a prospective studyharry sokolvalerie lalandececilia landmananne bourrier isabelle nion-larmuriersylvie rajcajulien kirchgesnerphilippe seksikjacques cosnesfrederic barbutlaurent beaugeriea department of gastroenterology saint antoine hospital ap-hp and grc-upmc 03 upmc university paris 06 paris franceb sorbonne university--upmc univ paris 06 inserm erl 1157 avenir team gut microbiota and immunity umr 7203 saint-antoine hospital paris francec inra umr1319 micalis  agroparistech jouy en josas franced inflammation-immunopathology-biotherapy department dhu i2b paris francee department of microbiology saint antoine hospital ap-hp upmc university paris 06 paris francef national reference laboratory for clostridium difficile saint antoine hospital ap-hp upmc university paris 06 paris franceg clinical research group epidiff upmc university paris 03 paris francea r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 30 november 2016received in revised form 18 january 2017 accepted 19 january 2017available online 30 january 2017keywords clostridium difficile crohnulcerative colitisobjectives clostridium difficile infection cdi is a common complication in inflammatory bowel disease ibd and has been associated with poor ibd outcome.

the aims of our study were to look for predic- tive factors of cdi in patients hospitalized for ibd flare and to evaluate a rapid testing strategy in this population.methods consecutive patients hospitalized for ibd flare in saint-antoine hospital paris france were prospectively tested for cdi with a defined strategy involving rapid testing and reference methods.

the early diagnosis of cdi in a patient with ibd is thus very important but is particularly difficult as clinical symp- toms of cdi cannot be distinguished from those of an ibd flare.

the variables taken into account were age gender type of ibd duration of disease current smoking status medical history intestinal resection psc appendectomy disease activity in the previous 2 years ibd treatment corticoste- roid equivalent dose equal to or greater than 20 mg of prednisolone immunosuppressants anti-tnfa or other treatment ppi antibi- otics nsaids in the two months prior to admission.

digestive and liver disease 49 2017 643-646finally we showed that rapid testing is feasible in ibd patient populations.cdi is a well-known complication in ibd.

risk factors for cdi were investigated and performances of diagnostic tests were evaluated.results c. difficile testing was performed at admission in 461 hospitalizations for ibd flare.

conclusion cdi is frequent in patients hospitalized for ibd flare.

only toxigenic strains have a pathogenic potential and approximately 3 of healthy adults are asymptomatic carriers of c. difficile beside post-antibiotics and nosocomial set- tings c. difficile infection cdi has been repeatedly associated with inflammatory bowel disease ibd.

dysbiosis is present in patients with ibd a cdi can occur even without antibiotics trigger.

clinical data were obtained from the micista registry a prospective clinical database of all ibd patients evaluated by the same physicians at saint antoine hos- pital.

beside treatments for ibd we specifically recorded the use of antibiotics nsaids and proton-pump inhibitors ppi within two months before admission.c.

the data were processed using jmprsoftware version 7.0 sas institute inc. cary nc.resultscharacteristics of the study populationbetween september 2012 and may 2014 c. difficile testing was performed at admission in 461 hospitalizations for ibd flare in 342 patients.

