overall hrp-positive bacteria can be enriched in the rhizosphere   andmycorrhizosphere of different plant species      and so we surmised that t3sss are often involved in bfi which may include plants bf-plant interactions - bfpi.what did we learn - conclusion and perspectiveswe here provide evidence for the contention that bacterial t3sss particularly of the hrp1 and hrp2 families are often involved in interaction processes of bacteria with fungi in soil and plant habitats as well as with other eukaryotic organisms.

overall the analyses of the collective data set revealed that diverse t3sss have assumed diverse roles in the interactions of bacteria with host fungi as driven by ecological and evolutionary niche requirements.keywords bacteria fungi interactions microbial ecology soil type three secretion system mycorrhizaintroductionbacteria can interact closely with eukaryotic hosts as recently illustrated in studies on the core microbiomes that are associated with plants and supported by the proposal that plants and their associated microorganisms may be considered as superorganisms denoted holobionts .

summarized the interactions of soil fungi and bacteria including the binding of soil bacteria to fungal spores followed by molecule injection volatile compound production and degradation of fungal cell walls.

in this review we critically examine the literature on this topic with the following specific objectivesconsideration of the evolution of the t3ss and its connection with interactions with particular hostsevaluation of the potential role of the t3ss in bfi in soil and soil-related habitatsoutlook and identification of future research directions.t3sss - origin evolution and divergencetype iii secretion systems are intricate proteinaceous systems which span two membranes in gram-negative bacteria thus offering an outlet from the cytoplasm to the outside milieu.the t3ss machinery is composed of 20-odd conserved proteins up to 30 in some bacteria forming a structure containing an elaborate base an inner rod and a needle  .

grosso modo obligatorily intracellular bacteria that live in animals insects and protozoa harbor the chl-type t3ss whereas the spi-1 spi-2 and ysc systems are mostly present in animal- and protozoan-associated bacteria.

along with this role bacteria and fungi mediate the growth development and health of their host plants   .concerning the mutual interactions fungi clearly impact the composition of bacterial communities in their sphere of influence the mycosphere  .

in particular bacterial type three secretion systems t3ss which for a long time were only considered to constitute virulence determinants of gram-negative bacteria may play roles in the modulation of bacterial-fungal interactions bfi in soil and thus soil functioning.

phylogenetic analyses confirm that often t3ss proteins from one bacterial group are related to the ones from other bacteria rather than being novel and different  .

in contrast sipb and sipc were detected at the bacterial surface only following the contact with the target cell  .plant-pathogenic bacteriatype iii secretion system genes have been found in almost all gram-negative plant-pathogenic bacteria such as erwinia spp.

2009. bacterial effects on arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and mycorrhization as influenced by the bacteria fungi and host-plant.

as acidovorax species are known to have functional t3ss   we here posit a key role for these species and their t3sss.although t3sss thus indeed appear to mediate a suite of bacterial-fungal interactions one should keep in mind that in addition to other bacterial traits including bacterial metabolites other secretion systems are known to also contribute to bfi      .ecological effects and mechanisms of t3ss-mediated bfithe t3ss-mediated bfi may involve different mechanistic strategies.

overall we conclude that the t3ss has been evolutionarily employed in varying manners as an ecologically important cellular device that promotes bacterial fitness in a suite of diverse interactive situations.phylogenetic analysis of the t3sss of fungal-interactive bacteriaphylogenetic analysis of bacterial t3sss based on the sctn gene sctn is a t3ss-encoded atpase syn.

comparative analysis of different burkholderia genomes reveals the basis of fungal interactive bacterial strategies in proceedings of the 12th symposium on bacterial genetics and ecology bageco ljubljana.nazir r. warmink j. a. voordes d. c. van de bovenkamp h. h. and van elsasj.

 12 sylvie mazurier3  4  3 and 41 department of environmental sciences comsats institute of information technology abbottabad pakistan2 department of soil environmental science research centre for eco-environmental sciences - chinese academy of sciences beijing china 3 agroecologie agrosup dijon institut national de la recherche agronomique universite bourgogne franche-comte dijon france 4 department of microbial ecology gelifes university of groningen groningen netherlandsedited bydominique sanglard university of lausanne switzerlandreviewed bysusana rodriguez-coutoikerbasque spain marcela claudia pagano universidade federal de minasgerais brazilcorrespondencerashid nazir jan dirk van elsas specialty section this article was submitted to fungi and their interactions a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 18 october 2016accepted 06 january 2017published 31 january 2017citation nazir r mazurier s yang p lemanceau p and van elsas jd 2017 the ecological role of type three secretion systemsin the interaction of bacteria with fungi in soil and related habitats is diverse and context-dependent.front.

838. doi bacteria and fungi constitute important organisms in many ecosystems in particular terrestrial ones.

