this was evidenced by comparing weighted unifrac distances d5-14 to d0 be- tween treatment groups figure 2 microbiotas showed a greater change in relative proportion of community members a greater weighted unifrac distance relative to d0 in figure 2 after 5 to 14 days of treatment with prednisolone than after 5 to 14 days of gavage with water p  0.05.after 5 to 14 days of treatment only the overall microbial composition of prednisolone-treated mice differed from con- trol mice who received 5 to 14 days of water using weighted unifrac distance p  0.001. this is evidenced in figure 1a by the red full circles fecal samples from prednisolone- treated mice that are significantly more dispersed than the black full circles gavage controls after 5 and 14 days of wa- ter.

amova of weighted and unweighted unifrac distances indicated no dif- ference in overall community structure at day 14 between is- treated mice and gavage controls amova p  0.181. in addition no treatment group was significantly different fromthe others and the ileal microbiotas of all is treated mice were not closer to each other than to water treated control mice.no significant difference was observed between the ileal microbiota of is treated mice and that of controls at the phylum class figure s2 sdc or family levels.clostridium sensu stricto was the only bacterial genus sig- nificantly altered in ileal figure 5 and was depleted in com- bined is drugs p  0.005 and predinosolone-treated mice p  0.05. although the change in clostridium sensu strictofigure 2. weighted unifrac distances after treatment compared with day 0. a higher weighted unifrac distance from day 0 indicates a greater change in or a greater impact on the relative proportion of members of the bacterial community in response to treatment.

feces were collected at day 0 before treatment initiation and at day 5 and 14 of treatment.

nmds nonmetric multidimensional scaling.prednisolone and combined is treatment alter ileal microbiotaileal and fecal microbiota compositions are known to be different.21 for this reason we also analyzed the microbial community in the ileum of the canadian mice who were sacrificed after 14 days of treatment or of oral water.

combined is associa- tion of prednisolone mmf and tacrolimus.was shared between mice who received the combined is treat- ment and mice who received prednisolone alone the ileal mi- crobiota of these 2 groups were not more similar to each other than other treatment groups at the community level.all is drugs except mmf alter c-type lectin expression in the ileuminnate antimicrobial defenses and in particular the expres- sion of c-type lectins are important in controlling the micro- biota at the intestinal mucosal surface.5 based on this we examined whether these antimicrobials might be altered after is drug treatment which could impact microbiota composi- tion.

e. coli fecal counts were higher after 2 and 7 days of combined is treatment than prior to treat- ment figure 7 increasing from 2.51 105 cfug of feces at day 0 to 1.26 106 cfug of feces at day 2 p  0.001 and 7.94 105 cfug of feces at day 7 p  0.04. in all the other treatment groups no difference in the absolute quan- tity of e. coli was observed.

also note that before treatment or water initiation d0 the proportion of several bacterial families significantly differed between the first and the second replicate.at day 0 between groups and between the individuals of a same treatment group.

in each treatment group the first column represents the fecal count before is treatment the second column the second day posttreatment and the third column the seventh day posttreatment.

immunosuppressive treatment alters secretion of ileal antimicrobial peptides and gut microbiota and favors subsequent colonization by uropathogenic escherichia colijerome tourret md phd123 benjamin p. willing phd14 sara dion rlat35 jayden macpherson bsc4 erick denamur md phd35 and brett b. finlay phd1idirectional interactions between gut microbiota and the immune system have been the subject of a grow- ing research effort.

more recently microbiota was used as a signature to distin- guish rejecting and nonrejecting rat liver recipients.9fricke et al10 looked at the impact of kidney transplantation including immunosuppressive is treatment on oral urinary and fecal microbiotas at 1 and 6 months posttransplantation.

because many parameters other than is treatment can influence gut microbiota after solid organ transplantation in humans a mouse model was used with 4 is drugs administered separately or in combination.

fecal pellets were collected at day 0 before is drug treatment at 2 5 7 and 14 days after is drug initiation.

weighted unifrac data can be visualized in a nonmetric multidimensional scal- ing plot figures 1a-e and in a diagram representing the distance of d5-14 samples relative to d0 figure 2. the overall community changed in all treatment groups and in the control group at days 5-14 full circles in figure 1relative to day 0 empty circles except in the combined is group as indicated by amova and corrected for multiple comparisons p  0.05 using both unweighted unifrac dis- tances which considers the presence or absence of otus and weighted unifrac distance which considers the relative abundance of otus.

in the first experiment it was associated with an increase in unclassified clostridiales whereas in the second replicate it was associated with an increase in lactobacillaceae figure 4. several other significant changes were observed after treat- ment with prednisolone tacrolimus or mmf at the family level in each replicate but were not consistent between the 2 replicates figure 4. however it is important to note that fecal microbiota composition prior to treatment was significantly different in the 2 replicates of the experiment.

weighted unifrac distances are visualized on a nonmetric multidimensional scaling plot comparing each treatment to water gavage controls.

