Meanwhile the daily food intake of the two DEX-treated groups was lower than that of the Con group and the liver weight showed a similar trend B C. However there was no significant difference in the liverbody ratio among the groups D. The fat mass of the two DEX-treated groups was higher than that of the Con group whereas the Dex0.01 group had the maximum fat mass E. Similarly the ratio of fatbody weight was higher in the two DEX- treated groups compared with that in the control group F. Oil red O staining of the liver indicated that the two doses of DEX did notalter hepatic lipid content.

Also there was no difference among the three groups in serum IL-2 levels.Effects of exogenous GC administration on the expression of lipid metabolism-related genes and mitochondria-associated genes in ratsAs shown in  two doses of DEX exposure had little effect on the expression of lipid metabolism-related genes in the liver.

Moreover Tnf-a Il-1b Tlr-2 and Defa8 which are involved in inflammatory responses and anti- microbial peptide secretion showed high expression levels in the Dex0.05 group C. AB-PAS staining analysis revealed that the two DEX-treated groups especially the Dex0.01 group showed a significant reduction in colonic mucus secretion D E. The expression levels of Muc2 and Muc3 related to mucus secretion showed the same result F.Effects of exogenous GC administration on expression of circadian clock-related genesTo further investigate the involvement of circadian clock system inthe GC mediated physiological alterations in rats the circadian phase of core clock genes were examined in both the master and peripheralreduce bone density and result in body weight loss .

However Dex0.05 treatment caused a marked decrease in Pgc-1a CytC and Cpt1a expression leading to levels close to that of the Con group.Effects of exogenous GC administration on gut microbiota in ratsAfter 7 weeks of DEX treatment the Chao 1 analysis revealed thatthe total species abundance in cecal contents was decreased in the DEX treatment groups compared with the control group A.

However both the DEX-treated rat groups showed in- creased serum CORT levels B.As shown in  the serum level of TG of the Dex0.05 group was lower than that of the Con group which was similar to the serum levels of FFA and IFN-g.

The results showed that the expression levels of Fabp1 Pparg and Gpat in the DEX-treated groups were all down- regulated in the liver whereas the levels of Pparg Acc Fas Dgat2 and Gpat were all upregulated in epididymal fat.

All rats were kept for 7 days to adapt to this environment before experiments were initiated.In total 90 male Wistar rats were divided randomly into three ex- perimental groups n  30 each a control group received sterile water daily at ZT0 Con the other two groups were gavaged with DEX 0.01 mgkg body weight and 0.05 mgkg body weight per day re- spectively at ZT0 and were named Dex0.01 and Dex0.05 respectively.

Significant differences between the control and DEX-treated groups are indicated by asterisks P  0.05 and P  0.01.were similar.The expression levels of mitochondrial synthesis and function-re- lated genes in the liver such as Sirtuin 1 Sirt-1 peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor gamma coactivator-1a Pgc-1a nuclear respiratory factor-1 Nrf-1 and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1a Cpt1a were all downregulated in the Dex-treated group compared with the control group.

Furthermore a principal component analysis indicated that DEX treatment altered the main components of microbiota in cecal contents C. Meanwhile chronic DEX exposure resulted in varying degrees of gut microbiota changes at the phylum and family levels Fig.

We also found that DEX treatment upregulated the expression levels of colonic antimicrobial peptide-related genes such as Tlr-2 and Defa8 which is also a direct factor that can alter bacterial structure.

