However the pathophys- iology of small intestinal damage is different from that of upper GI damage as the small intestine is indepen- dent of gastric acid.

The NLR fam- ily pyrin domain-containing 3 NLRP3 also known as NALP3 or cryopyrin is one of the most investigated mol- ecules among the inflammasomes and we previously re- ported that mature IL-1b induced by activated NLRP3 inflammasome acted as an important proinflammatory cytokine as well as TNF-a in the pathophysiology of NSAID-induced small intestinal damage 12.On the basis of these results we propose the mecha- nism underlying the pathophysiology of NSAID-in- duced intestinal damage.

These results indicated that PPIs exacerbate the NSAID-induced small intestinal damage by changing the enteric microbial populations.Consistent with the results of this experimental study the results of our previous clinical study showed that PPIs were the risk factors of NSAID-induced severe damage 3.

Thus metagenome analysis using a next-generation sequenc- er will provide further information about the rebamip- ide-induced modulation of the composition of the mi- crobiota.ConclusionThestrategyforpreventionandtreatmentfor NSAID- induced small intestinal damage has not been estab- lished thus far and further studies are required to eluci- date the mechanisms underlying this damage.

ReviewDigestion 20179522-28 DOI Microbiota Plays a Key Role in Non-Steroidal Anti-InflammatoryDrug-Induced Small Intestinal DamagePublished online January 5 2017Koji Otania Tetsuya Tanigawaa b Toshio Watanabea b Sunao Shimadaa Yuji Nadatania Yasuaki Nagamia Fumio Tanakaa Noriko Kamataa Hirokazu Yamagamia Masatsugu Shibaa Kazunari Tominagaa b Yasuhiro Fujiwaraa b Tetsuo ArakawaaaDepartment of Gastroenterology and bSamurai International GI Research Centre Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine Osaka JapanKey WordsToll-like receptor  High mobility group box 1 Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family  Pyrin domain-containing 3  Inflammasome  Probiotics  RebamipideAbstractBackground Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs NSAIDs damage the small intestine by causing multiple erosions and ulcers.

We reviewed the role of intestinal microbiota in NSAID- induced intestinal damage and identified potential thera- peutic candidates.

Summary The composition of the intestinal microbiota is an important factor in the patho- physiology of NSAID-induced small intestinal damage.

However several studies indicate that PPIs may induce dysbiosis which may exacer- bate the NSAID-induced small intestinal damage.

Our recent research suggests that probiotics and rebamipide could be used to prevent NSAID-induced small intestinal damage by regulating the intestinal microbiota.

Key Messages Intesti- nal microbiota plays a key role in NSAID-induced small intes- tinal damage and modulating the composition of the intes- tinal microbiota could be a new therapeutic strategy for treating this damage.c 2016 S. Karger AG BaselIntroductionCurrently non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs NSAIDs constitute one of the most frequently pre- scribed class of drugs.

