briefly fruit samples were aseptically transferred into a 2-treatment 5untreated fruitfruit from harvesting bins to be kept at room temperature for the duration of the degreening period 2-3 daysdegreening chamber with no ethylenefreshly harvested fruitharvesting binsfungicide drenchingtreatment 1 freshly harvested fruit fruit from harvesting bins at the packhouse just before drenchingtreatment 2 drenched fruitfruit just after drenching but before degreeningfigure 1 fruit sampling protocol showing the points where fruit samples were collected during commercial degreening.treatment 4non-ethylene degreened fruitdegreening chamber with no ethylenedegreening chambertreatment 3 degreened fruitfruit just after degreening but before chlorine dumpl sterile glass beaker containing 1 l sterile 01 wv buf- fered peptone water bpw supplemented with 002 vv tween 80 associated chemical enterprises johan- nesburg south africa.

2003 with tem- peratures varying according to region.notwithstanding its advantages in improving fruit visual appearances studies have shown that ethylene degreening can result in increased postharvest fruit decay of citrus fruit smilanick et al.

fruit samples were collected from the same batch moving through commercial postharvest practices including har- vesting bins prior to fungicide drenching freshly com- mercially harvested drenched fruit prior to degreening drenched and degreened fruit before chlorine treatment degreened with ethylene.

2006. peel colour is an important criteria determining marketability as consumers associate the green colour with immature fruit eckert and brown 1986. to meet consumers' expectations of the 'perfect orange' degreening of oranges is used as a postharvest treatment to hasten the natural colour break of earlyseasonal fruit smilanick et al.

2004.our results support the concept that drenching fruit prior to degreening reduces microbial loads on fruit sur- faces smilanick et al.

the genus deinococcus was present in all sam- ples accounting for 27 of the sequences of freshly har- vested fruit but greatly reduced by drenching 5 enriched during ethylene degreening 10 and 3-day storage under ambient indoor conditions 57. the high prevalence of the deinococcus group on untreated and freshly harvested fruit implies that they form part of the native microbiota of oranges.

journal of applied microbiology issn 1364-5072original article effect of postharvest practices including degreening on citrus carpoplane microbial biomesgomba l. chidamba and l. korstendepartment of plant and soil sciences university of pretoria hatfield south africakeywordsbacteria citrus biome degreening drenching fungi yeast pyrosequencing.correspondencelise korsten university of pretoria depart- ment of plant and soil sciences room 2-17 agricultural building private bag x20 hatfield 0028 south africa.e-mail 20161850 received 23 august 2016 revised23 november 2016 and accepted 13december 2016 doi10.1111jam.13396abstractaims to investigate the effect of commercial citrus packhouse processing steps on the fruit surface microbiome of clementines and palmer navel oranges.methods and results viable bacteria yeast and fungi counts and the pyrosequencing analysis of the 16s rrna and its were used to evaluate the community structure and population dynamics of phylloepiphytic bacteria and fungi associated with commercial postharvest processing.

degreening was accomplished by exposing fruit to continuous ethylene flow in regulated degreening rooms 3 ll l-1 ethylene 21-23degc and 94 rh for 3 days.

a close examination of the microbiota of fruit and the impact of intervention strategies on the ecological balance may provide a more durable approach to reduce losses and spoilage.introductionthe carpoplane fruit surface is colonized by a variety of micro-organisms that include several species of bacteria fungi and yeasts abdelfattah et al.

the epiphytic microbiota on plant surfaces adapts differently to different environmental conditions due to fitness within the community context brandl 2006.although no change was observed in microbial popula- tions of untreated palmer navels held under ambient con- ditions for 3 days it is still recommended to promptly wash and disinfect fruit after harvest as microbial popula- tions can increase as was seen with clementine fruit.

2016. ten fungal genera dominated the orange surfaces including some important groups such as davidiella cryptococcus penicillium epicoccum and sporobolomyces.the genus davidiella was the most dominant at all pro- cessing stages with similar proportions observed in freshly harvested drenched and untreated fruit but relatively less on degreened fruit.

beginning with freshly harvested fruit fungal diversity declined significantly after drenching but had little effect on bacteria and populations recovered during degreening treatments including those for penicillium sp.conclusion packhouse processing greatly influences microbial communities on the citrus carpoplane.significance and impact of the study a broad orange biome was described with pyrosequencing and gave insight into the likely survival and persistence of pathogens especially as they may affect the quality and safety of the packed product.

2006. degreening is achieved by exogenous applications of ethylene gas to freshly harvested fruit at 5-10 ll l-1 90-95 relative humidity for 1-5 days ritenour et al.

griffon and maubl brown 1986 and anthracnose caused by colletotrichum gloesporioides penz eckert and eaks 1989.fungicide drenching is a common postharvest practice applied to freshly harvested fruit just before degreening to reduce microbial populations and the incidence of decay ritenour et al.

a close examination of themicrobial diversity of the citrus carpoplane as affected by packhouse procedures can improve our understanding of the behaviour of these communities especially as they may affect the quality and safety of the packed product.this study was carried out to investigate changes in fungal and bacterial community profiles on citrus fruit subjected to commercial postharvest practices including degreening treatments using traditional plate count meth- ods and pyrosequencing.

