For analysis of the effects of acute challenge with M. vaccae relative to vehicle-challenged controls on Tb and LMA we analyzed a baseline time period from 2 h prior tochallenge until challenge with M. vaccae or vehicle time 0 and a post-challenge time period from time 0 until 11 h after challenge whereby each individual's scores were averagedfor successive 30-min interval blocks at the start time of each averaged 30-min interval.In Experiment 2 cages containing individually housed mice were moved to receivers for telemetric recordings atspecific time points on the day of the M. vaccae or vehicle challenge only during three 30-min periods 1 a baseline period from -30 min to 0 min immediately before acutechallenge with M. vaccae or vehicle 2 from 2 h to 2 h 30 min following challenge and 3 from 10 h to 10 h30 min following challenge.

A main effect of M. vaccae F155.23  2.699 p  0.11 and an M. vaccae by FST interaction F152.848  2.204 p  0.14 did not reach statistical significance.Among mice challenged with M. vaccae mice that were exposed to the FST compared to home cage controls had a greater number of c-Fos-irTph-immunonegative non-serotonergic cells in the DRI and DRC at -5.14 mm bregma.Total Tph-ir Serotonergic NeuronsLinear mixed model analysis of the total number of sero- tonergic neurons sampled i.e.

Neither Tb nor LMA was different between M. vaccae-and vehicle- immunized mice at any other time point studied.Forced Swim TestIn Experiment 1 using continuous telemetric recordings and undisturbed mice M. vaccae-immunized mice that were challenged with M. vaccae compared to M. vaccae- immunize mice challenged with vehicle spent less timeimmobile in the FST Fig.

3 Effects of s.c. M. vaccae challenge in undisturbed M. vaccae- immunized mice on forced swim test FST behavior in ExperimentAll mice were immunized s.c with M. vaccae 0.1 mg100 ul s.c. on Days - 28 and - 14 and were challenged s.c. with eitherM.

5 Effects of s.c. M. vac- cae challenge in M. vaccae- immunized mice on homecage behavior in ExperimentAll mice were immu- nized s.c with M. vaccae 0.1 mg100 ul s.c. on Days28 and - 14 and were chal- lenged s.c. with either M. vaccae 0.1 mg100 ul s.c. or borate-buffered saline BBSvehicle on Day 1.

Together these data suggest that peripheral immune activation is sufficient to activate DRI serotonergic neurons but that systemic inflammation and fever are not necessary.To further characterize the effects of acute challenge with M. vaccae we investigated the effects of acute chal- lenge with heat-killed M. vaccae NCTC 11659 on c-Fos expression in brainstem serotonergic neurons body tem-perature locomotor activity and antidepressant-like behavioral responses in M. vaccae-preimmunized adult male BALBc mice.

All mice were preimmunized s.c with heat-killed M. vaccae NCTC 11659 0.1 mg100 ul s.c. on Days - 28 and - 14 and were challenged s.c. with either M. vaccae 0.1 mg100 ul s.c. or borate-buffered saline BBS vehicle on Day 1.

7 Effects of s.c. M. vaccae challenge in M. vaccae-immunized mice on c-Fos expression in non-serotonergic cells in subregions of the dorsal raphe nucleus DR in Experiment 2. a Photomicrographs illustrating subregions of the DR. b Cell count data for c-Fos-immu-noreactivetryptophan hydroxylase Tph-immunonegative neurons inselected subdivisions of the DR measured 13.5 h following immuni- zation with either vehicle or M. vaccae and 1.5 h following exposure to home cage control conditions or a 6-min forced swim test FST.

Each cage transfer was associated with a transient stress-induced hyperthermia data not shown which may have interfered with subsequent antidepressant-like behav- ioral responses.Although previous studies have shown that challenge with a heat-killed preparation of M. vaccae in M. vaccae- immunized mice activates DRI serotonergic neurons this study expands that finding to show that M. vaccae activatesboth DRI serotonergic neurons and DRVLVLPAG seroton- ergic neurons.

In Experiment 2 acute M. vaccae challenge in M. vaccae-immunized mice decreased home cage locomotion in alignment with findings in Experiment 1 as measured byvideo-based behavioral analysis and among mice exposed Christopher A. LowryPhilip H. Siebler Jared D. Heinze Drake M. Kienzle Matthew W. Hale Jodi L. Lukkes Nina C. Donnernina.donnergmail.com Jared M. Kopelman jared.kopelman88gmail.com Orlando A. Rodriguez 1 Department of Integrative Physiology and Centerfor Neuroscience University of Colorado Boulder 1725 Pleasant Street Boulder CO 80309-0354 USA2 School of Psychology and Public Health La Trobe University Melbourne VIC Australia 30863 Center for Neuroscience University of Colorado Boulder Boulder CO 80309 USA4 Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Center for Neuroscience University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus Aurora CO 80045 USA5 Rocky Mountain Mental Illness Research Education and Clinical Center Denver CO 80220 USA6 Military and Veteran Microbiome Consortium for Research and Education MVM-CoRE Denver CO 80220 USA7 Present Address Department of Psychiatry Indiana University School of Medicine Indianapolis IN 46202 USA8 Present Address Department of Psychiatry Center for Neuroscience University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh PA 15219 USAto the forced swim test increased c-Fos expression in sub- sets of serotonergic neurons within the dorsal raphe nucleus DR measured 13.5 h following challenge.

