2012. the composition of the gut microbiota can be affected by the host's genetic background lifestyle feeding habits and selective pressures on the gut habitat zoetendal et al.

the unclassified sequences constitute up to 787 -036 in group iii.a multivariate anova analysis of all families in the gut microbiome of the analysedfish found no significant differences between groups at different development stages glm pfamily  0424248.discussionalthough studies on fish gut microbiota have already been reported balcazar et al.

2012. the proteobacteria phylum however not only dominates the gut of freshwater species but also the gut of other perciformes living in a marine environment such as notothenia coriiceps richardson 1844 and chaenocephalus aceratus lonnberg 1906 ward et al.

the informa- tion obtained on the gut microbiome could be useful in determining juvenile s. lucioperca health and improving rearing conditions by welfare monitoring in aquaculture.c 2017 the fisheries society of the british isleskey words 16s rrna intestines microbiome next generation sequencing pikeperch sander luciop- erca.introductionpikeperch sander lucioperca l. 1758 is a freshwater species that is an important cul- tivated fish of great economic interest steenfeldt et al.

in contrast the fish gastrointestinal microbiota has attracted less attention and knowledge of fish gut microbiota is still limited li et al.

microbes that first colonize the gut have long-term effects on the host costello et al.

2014. despite large evolu- tionary and geographic distances between their fish hosts commonality of phylotypes suggests that fish harbour bacteria that are typical for the fish gut roeselers et al.

proteobacteria was also a dominant phylum in the fish gut of coho salmon fry oncorhynchus kisutch walbaum 1792 romero  navarrete 2006 and o. mykiss fry ingerslev et al.

a better understanding of how the gut microbiota interact will help to improve the design microbial management and nutrient cycling of fish rearing systems giatsis et al.

2015. sander lucioperca is an apex predator in terms of ecosystems and fisheries in many brackish water ecosys- tems in northern europe hempel et al.

as a commercially valuable species s. lucioperca is still regu- larly stocked in both its native and non-native ranges eschbach et al.

in the past s. lucioperca was extensively farmed in ponds or lakes hilge  steffens 1996 ruuhijarvi  hyvarinen 1996 while nowadays s. lucioperca is successfully reared under recirculation aquaculture system ras conditions molnar et al.

48 89 523 41 64 email tomasz.dulski uwm.edu.pl94c 2017 the fisheries society of the british islespolicar et al.

moreover it is predicted that the production of marketable s. lucioperca with intensive culture will increase due to its excellent flesh quality high growth rate good market value blecha et al.

2016 suitability for intensive culturing wang et al.

