25Multiple isotope labels targeted delivery and additional stable isotope end-points including breath 13CO2 will potentially move this strategy forward for understanding gut dysfunction in EED.Stable Isotopes Macronutrient Bioavailability and Host ResponseClassical stable isotope dilution techniques which utilize steady-state tracer infusion protocols have become an essential tool for determining metabolite flux in humans.

Here we review and discuss the potential of available stable isotope techniques as nonless-invasive and safe tools for advanced diagnosis and research of gastrointestinal dysfunction.The Principle of Using Stable Isotopes in GastroenterologyThe basic principle of all stable isotope techniques in gastroenterology is to administrate a stable isotope-labeled compound to the body i.e.

69 While these single-cell methods were initially developed and applied in animal models stable isotope analysis of individual cells can be readily performed on fecal samples or tissue biopsies obtained from patients that are subject to some of the more routine stable isotope tests mentioned above.

57 The most commonly applied approach to measurement of zinc absorption is the dual isotope tracer ratio method which involves oral administration of one isotope and intravenous administration of another isotope.Measurement of the ratio of the isotope enrichment in plasma or urine several days later provides a determination of the fractional absorption of zinc multiplication of this times the amount of ingested zinc yields the amount of absorbed zinc.

As a potential biomarker of zinc status and response to zinc interventions EZP is expensive but it could usefully be measured in subsets of subjects participating in intervention trials to evaluate response to intervention and to link to functional outcomes.IronThe gold standard for measuring iron absorption and bioavailability from foods or supplements both in healthy individuals and those with malabsorption is the iron stable- isotope technique based on erythrocyte incorporation of the stable isotope labels 14 days after intake.

This would provide insight into the severity of iron malabsorption and the etiology of anemia in EED as well as assessing changes in absorption in children recovering from EED.Single Cell Isotope Methods for Probing Microbiota-Gut FunctionSpatially highly resolved isotope imaging emerges as an important complement to common stable isotope labelling techniques which essentially measure whole body or population averages that mask relevant differences between individual cells.

Together these may be important drivers of the outcomes observed in EED such as growth faltering reduced vaccine response and impairments in cognitive development.Butler et al.Page 16Figure 2.The 3 domains of a human stable isotope labeling experiment using labeled macronutrients.Stable isotope labelling of macronutrients from plant sources has been achieved byboth 13CO2 enrichment of the plant atmosphere use of 15N nitrate ammonium fertilizers or 2H2O labelling of plant feed water.

Excretion of endogenously secreted zinc in the intestine a critical aspect of zinc homeostasis can also be estimated by the isotope dilution method by determination of the ratio of the amount of an intravenously administered isotope in feces to that in urine over the same time period.

2017 January  641 8-14. doi10.1097MPG.0000000000001373.Stable Isotope Techniques for the Assessment of Host and Microbiota Response During Gastrointestinal DysfunctionRoss N. Butler PhD1 Margaret Kosek MD2 Nancy F. Krebs MD3 Cornelia U. Loechl PhD4 Alexander Loy PhD5 Victor O. Owino PhD4 Michael B. Zimmermann MD6 and Douglas J. Morrison PhD71School of Pharmacy and Medical Sciences Division of Health Sciences University of South Australia Adelaide Australia 2Bloomberg School of Public Health John Hopkins University Baltimore Maryland USA 3Department of Pediatrics School of Medicine University of Colorado Aurora Colorado USA 4Nutrition and Health-Related Environmental Studies Section Division of Human Health International Atomic Energy Agency Vienna Austria 5Division of Microbial Ecology Department of Microbial and Ecosystem Science Research Network Chemistry meets Microbiology University of Vienna Vienna Austria 6Institute of Food Nutrition and Health Department of Health Sciences and Technology ETH Zurich Zurich Switzerland 7Scottish Universities Environmental Research Centre University of Glasgow East Kilbride Scotland UKAbstractThe International Atomic Energy Agency convened a technical meeting on environmental enteric dysfunction EED in Vienna 28th - 30th October 2015  to bring together international experts in the fields of EED nutrition and stable isotope technologies.

Advances in stable isotope labelling techniques open up new possibilities to improve our understanding of gastrointestinal dysfunction and the role of the microbiota in host health.

