at this point animals weighed between 200-220 g. the animals were then randomly grouped and subjected to 10-day water avoidance wa stress.at the end of the study ani- mals weighed between 300-350 g. the study and experiments were approved by the university of michigan committee on use and care of animals fol- lowing national institutes of health guidelines.experimental stressorthirteen male rats were repeatedly exposed to wa stress as described previously.briefly the animals were placed on a glass platform in the center of a tank filled with water 25oc to 1 cm below the height of the platform.

how- ever richness and diversity indices indicate a trend of richer and more diverse microbial communities among wa animals compared with control animals .

as the tree is rooted in a hypothetical gnotobiotic individual animals with lower diversity are sorted to the base of the tree cluster composed mostly of hcs and animals with increased diversity are sorted to the terminal branch ends of the tree mostly wa ani- mals.

the wa dominated cluster is defined by the shared presence of microbial taxa synapomorphies belonging to the genera corynbacterium facklamia anearocuccus and methylobacterium the familiesfigure 1. a observed richness and the b ace diversity indices indicate significantly p  0.05 increased diversity in the microbiome of wa animals the c chao1 index tended to significance p 0.05 whereas the d shannon's index and e species accumulation curve did not show differences in diversity in the microbiome of control and wa animals.sphingobacteriaceae and methylobactriaceae and the order actinomycetales in contrast to animals with more basal positions control dominated on the tree in which these taxa are predominantly absent .differential microbial abundancelefse analysis performed on microbial abundance data revealed otus and microbial clades that were perturbed by the experimental stressor.

of these 19 had higher abundances in control animals and 76 had higher abundances in wa animals .

red indicates higher abundance in control animals green indicates higher abundance in wa animals and yellow is non-signifi- cant.

forty-two of these kos were over-abundant in wa animals and 6 were depleted in wa animals compared with controls.

functional domains which exhibited increased potential in wa animals included biotin- and sulfur-metabolism and the biosynthesis of fatty acids .discussionwa animals exhibited an increased richness and diversity of microbes and predominance of over- abundance among differentially abundant taxa.

evidence from a noxious-stress mouse model indicates differ- ential responses of the mucosa-adherent and lumi- nal microbial communities and further describes increased richness and diversity in response to an acute dose versus decreased richness and diversity in response to chronic administration.several microbial taxa were found to be uniquely predominantly present in wa animals compared with controls contributing to the increased diver- sity observed in wa animals.

red indicates higher abun- dance in control animals green indicates higher abundance in wa animals.

various metabolic functions mainly relating to energy lipid and amino acid metabolism appeared to be decreased in the microbiome of wa animals whereas the capacity for fatty acid metabolism and sulfur metabolism were enhanced in the colonic microbiome of wa animals compared with controls.

the proteobacteria as a phylum was prominently over abundant in wa animals wa 38ss 21 control 20 ss 15 including the classes g- and b-proteobacteria approximately 2-fold higher in wa respectively so were the class flavobacteriia wa 6.8 ss 4.7 control 3.0 ss 3.5 the orderspseudomonodales wa 10.0 ss 10.2 control 3.9 ssfigure 2. a pcoa of abundance based bray-curtis distances of the colonic microbiome from control orange and wa blue rats plotted on the first 2 principal coordinates pc which account for approximately 48 of the observed variation b hierarchical clustering using ward's method on bray-curtis distances reflect the clustering of microbial communities by treatment condition control and wa stress observed in the pcoa analysis.3.9 and bacillales wa 6.8 ss 4.7 control 3 ss3.6 the families weeksellaceae wa 6.8 ss 4.7control 3 ss 3.5 rhodocyclaceae wa 1.0 ss 0.8control 0.6 ss 0.8 and moraxellaceae wa 0.9 ss0.5 control 0.7 ss 1.4 and the genus cloacibacte-rium wa 5.23.6 control 2.32.6 figs.

among these otus belonging to the genera akkermansia and parabacteroides  2-fold lower in wa were sig- nificantly less abundant in wa animals whereas otus belonging to the genera corynbacterium  3- fold higher in wa and acinetobacter  2-fold higher in wa were significantly over-abundant in the wa group .

maximum parsimony was used as the optimality criterion to select the tree that best described the descendant relationships between animals.

this clade is primarily repre- sented by wa animals.figure 4. circular cladogram of statistically and biologically consistent differences in colonic microbial clades between wa and control animals.

