t. moreover because a patient who is not in remission after treatment from a particular donor pool would not achieve remis- sion for as long as treatment is continued with this donor pool all patients who are not in remission after treatment in round t are reassigned to a different donor pool in round t  1.therefore the proportion of patients in remission at the end of round t is nondecreasing in t.turning to the effect of pooled donors because it takes up to 14 days of treatment to observe whether remission is achieved we assume that daily cycling of pills from several donors e.g.

if remission is not achieved then the patient never achieves remission in subsequent rounds when treated by a pool with all ineffective donors and if the patient is subsequently treated by a pool with at least one effective donor then remission isachieved with probability r1j-r0j so that the patient's overall remission probability is also r .1-r0j1jthe first step in deriving the posterior marginal probability cdt that donor d is of type 1 at the end of round t is to compute the likelihood ptdeth of the data observed for patient l of type j through the end of round t conditioned on the vector e of donor states.

in words at and bt are the number of effective and ineffectivetlldonors respectively who have unsuccessfully treated patient l by the end of round t and mtand nt are the number of effective and ineffective donors respectively who have achieved remission in patient l by the end of round t. note that mt th nt 14 s or 0 depending uponwhether or not patient l is in remission at the end of round t.the key to the analysis is the computation of the posterior joint distribution pde 14 ejhtth of each donor's type at the end of each round given all previous treatment results ht where e e1 e2 .

kt and let ak be the set of s donors in pool k. for each patient l let ut be the set of all donors from which he has received unsuccessful treatment by the end of round t and vt be the set of donors who achieved remission in patient l by the end of round t. note that vt is either empty or contains the donors in the pool that achieved remission in patient l. furthermore vt  ut is empty for all values of t and l because a patient is never reassigned toa donor from whom he previously received unsuccessful treatment.

although results from a placebo-controlled randomized trial of fmt for uc  show that fmt is only moderately effective 24 remission probability vs. 5 for placebo they also reveal two interesting phenomena remission probabilities are highly dependent on the fecal donor one of five donors achieved seven of the nine remissions and on the length of time that a patient has had uc three of four patients with uc for 1 year experienced remission.

an ineffective donor is incapable of achieving remission in a patient that did not achieve remission from an effective donor and hence a patient's overall remission probability is independent of the number of previous times that he was unsuccess- fully treated by an ineffective donor.one way to think about these two versions of the model is that each effective donor pos- sesses an effective unobservable factor e.g.

treatment results are binary where patients are either in remission or not in remission after receiving treatment in any given round.in each round each patient receives 14 days of treatment from a particular donor pool.

hence a patient can fail treatment from a donor in round t and then achieve remission from a different donor of the same type in a later round.

via the time with uc heterogeneity in the efficacy of donor material is not observableprior to treatment under the current state of scientific knowledge in particular it is not cur- rently possible to predict whether a donor's stools will lead to remission based on an analysis of 16s rrna data or a more general metagenomic analysis.this unobservable heterogeneity suggests that remission rates might be improved by pooling several different donors' stools into each patient this could be achieved via an encapsulated stool protocol  with daily cycling of pills e.g.

in particular if a patient is in remission after treatment from a particular donor pool then he remains in remission for as long as he receives treatment from this donor pool.

a microorganism that achieves a relatively high remission probability and each ineffective donor possesses an ineffective factor that achieves a lower remission probability.

but if that patient does not achieve remission then the patient never achieves remission in any future rounds regardless of treat- ment.

dt  d1  st - 1 for s  4 and 5. for this set of parameter values the addi- tion of naive donors during step 3 of the algorithm was primarily caused by patients exhaust- ing all available donors not because donors were deemed ineffective.dependence version of the modelin the dependence version of the model the maximum remission probability for a type jpatient is r1j and hence rt converges ton1r11 th n2r12 03861n1 th n2as s  1 or t  1 which is the remission proportion if everyone is eventually treated by a pool with an effective donor.

more specifically if a type j patient is treated by a pool with at least one effective donor in round 1 then remission is achieved with probability r1j.

if a patient is treated by a pool with all ineffective donors in round 1 then remission is achieved with probability r0j.

