for example the drug aktoflor-c which contains some carboxylic acids and amino acids and serves as a model complex of bacterial metabolites derived from the microf lora stimulated proliferation of immune sys- tem cells in experiments in vivo and in vitro 3-5.the action of 37 blood metabolites and model cell culture-derived exometabolites which together repre- sented a part of human and animal blood metabo- lome was investigated in this study.chinese hamster ovary cho cells which are a eukaryotic equivalent of escherichia coli bacterial cul-a national research institute of highly pure biological preparations russian federal biomedical agencyst.

issn 0012-4966 doklady biological sciences 2017 vol.

petrov a.d. nozdrachev 2017 published in doklady akademii nauk 2017 vol.

491-493.physiologylow-molecular-weight components of the metabolome control the proliferative activity in cellular and bacterial culturesya.

methods of organotypic culturing of rat tissues and escherichia coli bacterial culturing have been used.

it has been found that all the tested com- pounds either stimulate or inhibit cell proliferation in tissue cultures and proliferation in bacterial cultures.

the metabolites that are present in blood and interstitial fluids can exert regulation effects on the tissues of the body and intestinal microbiota.doi 10.1134s0012496617010069many low-molecular-weight substances from interstitial f luid and intestinal organisms are parts of the blood metabolome 11. bacterial microf lora within human or animal body is considered today as an extracorporal organ that takes part in almost all physiological processes of the macroorganism.

bacterial growth was stimulated in the m-9 liquid glucose-mineral medium with the addition of the studied substances at concentrations of 10-10 000 ngml or the bacteria were seeded into petri dishes with the minimal m-9 glucose-mineral medium and agar and ai of the colonies was calcu- lated.the results of the study showed that all cho lines not only took up amino acids and carboxylic acids but also released them into the culture medium.

the similarity between the metabolite dynamics in bacteria in bacterial and tissue cultures and the data obtained in other studies 6 7 allows us to suggest that tissue metabolites and bacte- rial metabolites fulfill similar regulatory functions.to test this statement we studied biological activity of the metabolites.

aktof lor-c exerted the maximum positive action on bacterial cul- ture while glutaric acid on the liver and the kidney explant cultures.

the maximum growth stimulation of the spleen cells was induced by tartaric acid and the maximum growth of the pancreas by aktoflor-c. succinic acid stimulated the bacterial culture as well as spleen and liver tissue cultures.

biokhimiya 2015 vol.

mikrobiologiya2006 vol.

2009 vol.

2012 vol.

