bmi did not differ between pcos patients and controls study subject characteristics.auc area under the curve homa2-ir homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance hdl high-density lipoprotein.according to the world health organizationaccording to the american diabetes associationdepending on menstrual cycle stagessreference range not defined.doi10.1371journal.pone.0168390.t001p  0.147. pcos patients were significantly younger than controls p  0.003 with median ages of 27 and 32 respectively.when classifying pcos patients based on the four possible phenotypes under the rotter- dam criteria the majority 42 of patients displayed the phenotype d oapcom whilepcos diagnostic criteria and phenotypes.

we conclude that although the pcos patients in our study had a relatively mild metabolic phenotype with only slightly higher indi- ces of insulin resistance and dyslipidemia than the control group and no significant difference in bmi these disturbances may nevertheless be reflected in the gut microbiome of these patients.

weaknesses of the study include the small sample size which precluded stratification of pcos patients based on diagnostic criteria or metabolic parameters the high prevalence of pcos patients with a mild phenotype and the assessment of gut barrier function using surrogate parameters rather than an in vivo lactulose-mannitol test.

similar to the gut microbiome gut barrier changes may become more pronounced in specific pcos phenotypes such as those meeting all three rotterdam criteria or with more pronounced insulin resistance andor obesity.strengths of our study are the thorough metabolic and reproductive characterization of our pcos patients including androgen measurements by mass spectrometry the use of relative abundance filters to reduce otu inflation due to sequencing errors and the consideration of possible confounding factors such as age diet and adult-type hypolactasia.

data on gut per- meability in pcos patients are likewise scarce though an increase in serum zonulin a regula- tor of tight junction function has been reported .considering the unclear knowledge of the etiology of pcos and new insights from recent human and animal microbiome studies we sought to investigate the gut microbiome in pcos to assess its relevance in this condition.

unclassified the lowest classified taxonomic level is shown fdr benjamini-hochberg false discovery rate correction.bacteroidetestenericutes.doi10.1371journal.pone.0168390.t003differences were observed between pcos patients and controls in bacterial taxa with a relative abundance 1 or in the firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio.when comparing rare taxa relative abundance 1 bacteria from the phylum teneri- cutes showed a significantly lower relative abundance in pcos patients p0.0001 .

one unclassified genus from this phylum belonging to the order ml615j-28 was less abundant in pcos patients p  0.026. an unclassifiedrelative abundance of tenericutes in fecal samples from pcos patients and controls assessed by real-time qpcr.

serum dao a marker for intestinal epithelial damage was significantly higher in pcos patients p  0.044. serum endotoxin was not different between pcos patients and controls.

stool calprotectin a marker for intestinal inflammation was unchanged between patients and controls.in the assessment of systemic inflammatory status pcos patients had significantly higher blood leukocytes and lymphocytes than controls p  0.042 and 0.001 respectively .

if some of the taxa which were reduced in our pcos patients are heritable as was suggested recently for ml615j-28 and tenericutes they may regulate hor- monal and metabolic development in the small or proximal large intestine in early life up to puberty and decline in abundance thereafter .we found significant or borderline significant increases in several parameters of intestinal barrier dysfunction and inflammation in pcos patients.

in this pilot study we compared the stool microbiome gut permeability and inflammatory status of women with pcos and healthy controls.methods16s rrna gene amplicon sequencing was performed on stool samples from 24 pcos patients and 19 healthy controls.

gut barrier integrity endo- toxemia and inflammatory status were evaluated using serum and stool markers and asso- ciations with reproductive metabolic and anthropometric parameters were investigated.resultsthe stool microbiome of pcos patients showed a lower diversity and an altered phyloge- netic composition compared to controls.

patients showed alterations in some but not all markers of gut barrier function and endotoxemia.conclusionpatients with pcos have a lower diversity and an altered phylogenetic profile in their stool microbiome which is associated with clinical parameters.

in a noteworthy human study stool transfer from healthy donors improved peripheral insulin sensitivity in patients with metabolic syndrome suggesting a causal link between the gut microbiome and glucose metabolism .

to date no published data on the gut microbiome in human pcos patients exist though there have been recent reports of alterations in the fecal microbiome in pcos rodent models .

