Using nonculture-based techniques specifically polymerase chain reaction recent studies have shown that preterm infants have very different microflora than full-term neonates with a predomi- nance of more pathogenic organisms and a paucity of commensal organisms.1213 Similar to the microflora in full-term infants the flora in preterm infants is quite variable in the first 2 weeks before it ma- tures into a more consistent and predictable pattern.

In 1999 Gewolb et al11 sampled stool specimens from extremely low-birth-weight infants and using cul- ture-based methods showed that patients had minimal diversity by age 10 days with only 3 different bacterial species identified in most infants.

Most of the reported studies have described trajectories of biomarker lev- els following the diagnosis of NEC in an effort to discriminate infants with sepsis andor NEC from infants with feeding intolerance or ex- acerbation of other neonatal morbidities.

Furthermore some bio- markers appear to portend a more severe presentation possibly indicating those infants at high risk of requiring surgical intervention.Specifically urinary intestinal fatty acid-binding protein a marker for cell wall integrity damage has been reported to be significantly higher in infants diagnosed with NEC compared with unaffected con- trols.

JAMA Pediatrics  ReviewNew Medical and Surgical Insights Into Neonatal Necrotizing EnterocolitisA ReviewBrandy L. Frost MD Biren P. Modi MD Tom Jaksic MD PhD Michael S. Caplan MDeonatal care has evolved greatly over time but despite improvements in ventilation nutrition and temperature regulation necrotizing enterocolitis NEC remains amajor cause of morbidity and mortality in infants.

Infant survivors may develop significant sequelae including short bowel syn- drome cholestasis and impaired neurodevelopment.12 Necrotiz- ing enterocolitis is an inflammatory bowel necrosis most com- monly affecting preterm infants.

Re- cent evidence suggests that NEC results from an altered intestinal microbiome that activates an uncontrolled proinflammatory response.3 In preterm infants this proceeds briskly without ad- equate anti-inflammatory regulation.

A recent study by Azad et al10 dem- onstrated that even at age 4 months intestinal flora differed be- tween infants' diet and delivery method yetby 1 year of life the flora between individuals becomes much more similar.Flora differs significantly between the preterm infant and thefull-term neonate and these differences are proposed to contrib- ute to the development of NEC in part by activation of unbalanced proinflammatory signaling.

Taft et al14 sampled stool flora from a group of infants multiple times during 2 different years from 2 different hospitals during the first 2 weeks of life.

Separately Mai et al16 collected stool samples sequentially from preterm infants and described amarked change in flora in the week before diagnosis in those ba- bies who developed NEC.

