authors torow and hornef emphasize that the nature of this microbial community in human and mouse early neonates impacts immune homeostasis throughout life 1. grigg and sonnenberg explore the reciprocal influence of the identity and localization of the microbiome components on the balance between inflammation and immune homeostasis both within and outside the gut and point to the therapeutic potential for diseases of chronic inflammation pro- vided by manipulation of the microbiota-host interactions 2. elinav and coauthors describe the microbially derived and mi- crobially modified small metabolites whose bioactivity mediates much of the influence on sterile host tissues described in the ac- companying reviews in part by modulating nutrient content digestion inflammation and epigenetic control of transcription 3. recognizing the sweeping impact of lifestyle changes in the western world plunkett and nagler highlight the influence of the microbiota and environmental exposure to microbial products on the acquisition of food allergies 4 whereas the focus of the brief review by paun yau and danska is the effect of the resident gutmicrobiota on the rapid rise in the incidence of type i diabetesamong genetically stable populations 5. colpitts and kasper document the influence of the gut microbiome on autoimmunity in the cns mediated by alterations in the balance of effector and suppressor cells along the bidirectional gut-brain axis 6. landay and coauthors highlight the clinical consequences of microbiome dysbiosis through the documented cross-talk between the gut microbiome and the immune system during hiv infection with an eye to some of the recent technical advances that have illu- minated this field 7. taken together these brief reviews provide an impressive illustration of the ongoing dialogue between the gut microbiota and the immune system which when balanced at the ideal set point maintains immune homeostasis and when dis- rupted drives far-ranging clinical consequences.we are excited that this collection of topical brief reviews on the macro influence of the microbiome inaugurates the 101st year of continuous publication of the journal of immunology and underscores the breadth of the journal's scope and the eclectic research interests of its readership.

through seven brief reviews this issue of the ji high- lights the pervasive impact of the gut microbiome on immune functions both in the gut and at distal sites and features a coverchosen from a themed competition for this issue.these compiled brief reviews underscore our recent appreci- ation that the far-reaching influence of commensal gut microbes on immune function reflects the coevolution of this symbiotic mi- crobial ecosystem and its mammalian hosts.

sign up at the macro influence of the microbiomeam pleased to draw your attention to this the first ever topical issue of brief reviews in the journal of immunology.

image provided by dr. t. bergsbaken university of washington.in washington dc may 12-16 2017 for the focus of next year's topical issue of brief reviews.pamela j. fink ph.d.editor-in-chiefreferencestorow n. and m. w. hornef.

2017. the neonatal window of opportunity setting the stage for life-long host-microbial interaction and immune homeostasis.immunol.

2017. host-microbiota interactions shape local and systemic inflammatory diseases.

2017. microbiome-modulated metabolites at the interface of host immunity.

2017. the influence of the microbiome on allergic sensitization to food.

2017. the influence of the microbiome on type 1 diabetes.

2017. influence of the gut microbiome on au- toimmunity in the central nervous system.

2017. inside out hiv the gut microbiome and the mucosal immune system.immunol.

