The vector was digested using BsaI and annealed with the insert using T4 DNA polymerase.

Sitting drop crystallization trials were set up using a Mosquito crystallization robot TTP Labtech using commercial screens Molecular Dimensions Structure Index PACT and JCSG screens.

The protein was crystallized using the sitting drop method using a Mosquito robot TTP Labtech.

Sitting-drop crystallization trials were set up using a Mosquito crystallization robot TTP Labtech using commercial screens Molecular Dimensions MemGold 1 and 2 and in-house screens.

Data were scaled using Aimless.After obtaining well-diffracting crystals for native BT2261-64 we performed molecular replacement trials in Phaserwith both crystal forms using components available within the PDB at that time.

We then obtained crystals of soluble BT2263 and solved its structure using molecular replacement using BT2259 as a search model 26 sequence identity.

However anomalous difference maps could be produced that provided a useful independent registry check using the 51 methionine residues present in the tetrameric BT2261-64 complex.The structures of the BT2261-64 complex in space groups P212121 and P21 were solved by molecular replacement in Phaser using the individual components from the P1 crystals as search models and refined with Phenix.

The ion current trace was filtered using a low pass Bessel filter at 10 kHz and was recorded using a sampling frequency of 50 kHz.

These data provide mechanistic insights into outer membrane nutrient import by members of the microbiota an area of major importance for understanding human-microbiota symbiosis.To elucidate the mechanism of substrate acquisition by SusCD complexes using X-ray crystallography we initially tried to overex- press several B. thetaiotaomicron B. theta SusC homologues in the outer membrane of Escherichia coli but were unsuccessful.

A four-component complex produced by B. theta in minimal medium could be purified to homogeneity using ion-exchange chro- matography  and was identified as comprising BT2261 to BT2264 hereafter BT2261-64 by mass spectrometry.

