among them were a bunyavirus-like virus of leptomonas moramangoas well as narnavirus-like viruses of leptomonas seymouriand the dixenous plant pathogen phytomonas serpens 39. provocatively leptomonas seymouri has been recovered from cultures from visceral leishmaniasis patients infected with leishmania donovani and many of such leptomonas seymouri strains bear nlv1 40. thus there appears to be considerable unexplored viral diversity in trypanosomatids the study of which may contribute to our understanding of the biology of trypano- somatids and their insect andor plant hosts as well as the origins of viruses in leishmania.results and discussionscreening of trypanosomatid isolates.

viral discovery and diversity in trypanosomatid protozoa with a focus on relatives of the human parasite leishmaniadanyil grybchuka natalia s. akopyantsb1 alexei y. kostygovac1 aleksandras konovalovasd lon-fye lyeb deborah e. dobsonb haroun zanggere nicolas fasele anzhelika butenkoa alexander o. frolovc jan votypkafg claudia m. d'avila-levyh pavel kulichi jana moravcovaj pavel plevkaj igor b. rogozink saulius servadljulius lukevsgm stephen m. beverleyb23 and vyacheslav yurchenkoagn23alife science research centre faculty of science university of ostrava 710 00 ostrava czech republic bdepartment of molecular microbiology washington university school of medicine saint louis mo 63110 czoological institute of the russian academy of sciences st. petersburg 199034 russiaddepartment of biochemistry and molecular biology institute of biosciences life sciences center vilnius university vilnius 10257 lithuania edepartmentof biochemistry university of lausanne 1066 epalinges switzerland fdepartment of parasitology faculty of science charles university 128 44 prague czech republic gbiology centre institute of parasitology czech academy of sciences 370 05 ceske budejovice czech republic hcolecao de protozoarioslaboratorio de estudos integrados em protozoologia instituto oswaldo cruz fundacao oswaldo cruz 21040-360 rio de janeiro brazil iveterinary research institute 621 00 brno czech republic jcentral european institute of technology - masaryk university 625 00 brno czech republic knational center for biotechnology information national library of medicine national institutes of health bethesda md 20894 ldepartment of chemistry andbioengineering faculty of fundamental sciences vilnius gediminas technical university vilnius 10223 lithuania muniversity of south bohemia faculty of sciences 370 05 ceske budejovice czech republic and ninstitute of environmental technologies faculty of science university of ostrava 710 00 ostravaczech republiccontributed by stephen m. beverley november 26 2017 sent for review october 11 2017 reviewed by said a. ghabrial max l. nibert and larry simpsonknowledge of viral diversity is expanding greatly but many lineages remain underexplored.

however the possibility of multiple acquisitions of lbvs by trypanosomatids from insects or other trypanosomatids cannot be formally excluded given that trypanosomatid lbv1s bear hallmarks of infectious bunyaviruses and reports of mixed trypanosomatid infections 75-78. currently we favor a model with a single transition of an ancestral insect virus to a trypanosomatid but further investigations will be re- quired to rigorously establish this hypothesis.narnaviridae.

retain the rnai pathway 96. it is thus possible that rnai plays only a weak role in the evolutionary distribution of trypanosomatid viruses.several studies have established a role for trypanosomatid viruses in the vertebrate host 6 27-29 40 98. our studies now suggest that potential roles for trypanosomatid viruses in par- asite biology within their insect hosts should be considered.

leptomo- nas pyrrhocoris was a hotbed for viral discovery carrying a virus leptomonas pyrrhocoris ostravirus 1 with a highly divergent rna- dependent rna polymerase missed by conventional blast searches an emergent clade of tombus-like viruses and an example of viral endogenization.

exhibited dsrna bands while the remainder appeared to lack them table 1. most rna segments were sequenced and the sequences of those encoding viral rna- dependent rna polymerase rdrp were used to assign affil- iations to the known viral families.rna viruses of leptomonas pyrrhocoris.

2b 60-62. analysis of the base frequencies of codon third positions of the viral orfs showed significant differences between tlv1 and ov1 and a greater degree between these and the nuclear ge- nome of leptomonas pyrrhocoris table s5.thus we conclude that rnas o1-o6 comprise a previ- ously undescribed virus leptomonas pyrrhocoris ostravirus 1 leppyrov1.

resolution of these questions may benefit from the serendipitous identification of virus-free isolates of phytomonas serpens and leptomonas seymouri and their use in studies assessing potential functional roles.previously unidentified viruses were found in considerable numbers in the speciesisolates tested table 1. the actual di- versity of trypanosomatids is not known but at least 600 species have been already described 100. in addition the example of leptomonas pyrrhocoris with its multiple isolates showing varia- tion in viral presence and composition illustrates another level of diversity.

viral loss was occasionally observed in culture providing potentially isogenic virus-free lines enabling studies probing the biological role of trypanosomatid viruses.

1073pnas.1717806115-dcsupplemental.e506-e515  pnas  published online december 28 2017sickness chagas disease and kala-azar in humans 13. monoxenous with one host parasites of invertebrates primarily insects were ancestors of these dixenous with two hosts pathogens and still represent the majority of trypanosomatid lineages 14 15. phylo- genetic analysis of the trypanosomatidae has shown convincingly that the transition from a monoxenous to a dixenous state occurred at least three times giving rise to the genera trypanosoma and leishmania both parasites of vertebrates as well as plant-dwelling phytomonas 16.vlps were reported from a number of trypanosomatid species including endotrypanum schaudinni leishmania hertigi now classified as paraleishmania hertigi 17 phytomonas spp.

including leishmania rna virus 1 lrv1 from leishmania guyanensis and leishmania braziliensis 24 25 and an unrelated rna virus in phytomonas 21. the biological significance of these lays fallow until the finding that lrv1 was associated with increased disease pa- thology parasite numbers and immune response in animal models 6 26-29. subsequent studies provided evidence linking lrv1 to the severity of human leishmaniasis including acute pathology and drug-treatment failures 30-33 although data relating the viral presence to the chronic mucocutaneous leishmaniasis are mixed 32 34-36.recently molecular descriptions have been made for the viruses from several additional trypanosomatid species.

superimposed upon or alternative to this is the possibility of viral exchange via infectious shedding during coinfections as mixed trypanosomatid infections are quite frequent see above.

the orf2 showed a clear homology to viral rdrp cd01699 in the ncbi conserved domain database cdd with closest relationships to positive-strand rna viruses of the tombusviridaenodaviridae group 1. the two orfs showed an overlap of 880 nt fig.

2a albeit with modest statistical sup- port ncbi cdd amino acids 767-870 e  0.89 phyre 2 amino acids 684-874 confidence  56 hhpred amino acids 693-874 confidence  89.7 58 59. within this regionwe identified conserved viral rdrp motifs responsible for cat- alytic activity and ribonucleotide selectivity fig.

amino acid motifs typically found in viral rdrps are highlighted in yellow.table 1. within each completely sequenced lbv1 segment we identified a single large orf fig.

