fewer studies have addressed the microbiota of non-biting insect vectors such as filth flies and often with limited taxonomic resolution of host species .the present study provides an in-depth analysis of the adult housefly microbiota and unlike other microbiota studies of filth flies  we looked at the microbiota of single whole flies sampled within and between locations to insure that we included the entirephylogenetic tree and heatmap of selected families.

individual flies were used to assess variation in the bacterial com- munities within and between farms and multiple flies were collected at each farm.

in the laboratory flies were allocated into individual sterile vials and handled with a pair of sterile forceps to minimize contamina- tion between flies.

was present in 38 flies out of 90 but only classified as abundant in 5 flies .

cross contamination during collection of flies could also affect the variation between flies.

it is evident that some genera or species potentially harboring human pathogens are only present at single flies or farms whereas other species or genera are present across all sites and on most flies .

this is in agreement with results showing that the epi- demics of human pathogens transmitted by insect vectors often correlate with environmental factors  and that the vector competence of insect vectors is affected either indirectly or directly by environmental factors .many synanthropic flies including blood-feeding species live in close association with bac- teria and breed and feed in habitats such as animal manure human excrement garbage ani- mal bedding or decaying organic matter rich in microorganisms .

both the feeding mechanisms and breeding behavior of synanthropic flies make them efficient biological or mechanical vectors of human pathogens.

especially muscoid flies such as the housefly musca domestica diptera muscidae are known as carriers of many disease causing microorganisms including bacteria virus fungi and parasites .

few studies have addressed the variation in the microbiota of filth flies under natural conditions although such variation is likely to affect the phenotype of the fly.

flies were collected from the inside of the farms in closed areas with calves walking on deep litter.

musca domestica species identity of flies was established as described else- where .

only male flies were investigated to avoid any potential sex-dependent variations and thus enable testing a higher number of individuals per site.

large differences between the sexes affecting dispersal range and activity of houseflies have been reported elsewhere  and these could potentially influence the composition of the microbiota.dna extraction and 16s rrna gene amplicon sequencingtotal dna of whole male flies was extracted using the dneasy1 blood  tissue kit qiagen inc. hilden germany and following the qiagen supplementary protocol for purification of total dna from insects.

flies were grinded in liquid nitrogen using a pestle in 1.5 ml micro- centrifuge tubes.

