The funders had no role in the preparation of the manuscript and decision to publish.Competing Interests The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.AbstractEarly-life microbial exposure is of particular importance to growth immune system develop- ment and long-lasting health.

This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.Data Availability Statement All relevant data are within the paper and its supporting information files.Funding The study was funded by INVIVO-NSA LaSalle Beauvais and INRA Institute and no additional external funding was received for this study.

The other 7 pigs did not have diarrhea during the whole post-weaning experimental periodand were defined as healthy H pigs.

The sPLS regression method indicates that these bacterial families were strongly correlated to a higher Bacteroidetes abundance observed in PND 30 H pigs one week before diarrhoea.

The current experiment was conducted in preclinical facilities of LaSalle Insti- tute that received the agreement from the French veterinary services to conduct animal Research LaSalle facilities agreement number C60-200-001 delivered in 2013.

The protocol was conducted on supervision of Dr Thibaut Larcher from the French veterinary school of Nantes UMR703 PAnTher who assists the scientific and technical staff of LaSalle Beauvais during animal euthanasia and tissue collection in compliance with the relevant laws and institutional guidelines.Animals and experimental designA total of 5 multiparous sows Large-white x Landrace and their litters Large-white x Land- race x Pietrain from the experimental research center of INRA Saint-Gilles France were used.

The experiment was conducted in one batch.

The litters were selected regarding the rank parity of sows from 3 to 5 and the litter size.

The 4 pigs from each litter were allocated in the same 3 m2 pen.

The remaining colostrum was centrifuged at 400 g for 12 min at 4C to collect the aqueous phase which was stored at -20C until TGFb1 assay.

