3d lower row.gosmann et al.page 6we further examined cytokines associated with specific t helper th subsets as recent work suggests that th17 cells are the first targets of siv and hiv infection in the fgt rodriguez-garcia et al.

pubmed 22509319gosmann et al.page 11byrne eh anahtar mn cohen ke moodley a padavattan n ismail n bowman ba olson gs mabhula a leslie a et al.

please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain.gosmann et al.page 27department of medicine division of rheumatology immunology and allergy brigham and women's hospital and harvard medical school boston ma 02115 usa8vincent obstetrics  gynecology massachusetts general hospital boston ma 02115 usa9howard hughes medical institute chevy chase md 20815 usa10division of infectious diseases massachusetts general hospital boston ma 02115 usa11institute for medical engineering and science massachusetts institute of technology cambridge ma 02139 usasummaryelevated inflammation in the female genital tract is associated with increased hiv risk.

these findings may be leveraged to reduce hiv acquisition in women living in sub-saharan africa.graphical abstractgosmann et al.page 3keywordsfemale genital tract fgt vaginal microbiome mucosal immunology hiv susceptibility sub- saharan africa hiv acquisitionintroduction24 million people in sub-saharan africa are infected with hiv with the majority of new transmission events occurring following heterosexual sex.

young african women have an up to 8-fold increased hiv prevalence compared to young men unaids 2014 emphasizing the need for a better understanding of the factors in the female genital tract fgt that influence hiv acquisition.elevated inflammation is associated with an increased risk of hiv infection masson et al.

2015 and cervicovaginal bacteria have been shown to impact baseline inflammation in the fgt anahtar et al.

a small number of prospective studies indicate that women with cervicovaginal bacteria deficient in lactobacilli a bacterial genus considered beneficial for vaginal health spurbeck and arvidson 2011 are at higher risk of acquiring hiv low et al.

2011 martin et al.

1999 myer et al.

2005. however the depth of these studies has been limited by the use of gram-stained vaginal smears to assess the genital bacterial composition and by investigation of sex-worker and clinical cohorts not representative of the average healthy female population.the recent development of high throughput sequencing technologies to characterize the human microbiome has significantly improved our understanding of the role of the microbiome in diseases such as obesity inflammatory bowel disease colorectal cancer marchesi et al.

2016 and hiv-induced aids handley et al.

2016 monaco et al.

we additionally identified specific bacterial taxa that were closely associated with genital inflammation and hiv acquisition and showed that these same bacteria induced inflammation in in vitro and in vivo models thus establishing their mechanistic potential for directly increasing hiv acquisition.gosmann et al.page 4resultssouth african women have distinct bacterial but not viral cervicovaginal communitieswe followed 236 hiv-uninfected women prospectively with a median follow-up time of 336 days iqr 178.5 to 347 days and a total follow-up time of 198.2 person-years.

similar to our previous findings in a smaller cohort anahtar et al.

this contrasts with white women in developed countries 90 of whom have lactobacillus-dominant cervicovaginal communities ravel et al.

