ldb study design literature search data collection data analysis data interpretation and writing.what is the key question do mechanical ventilation antibiotic exposure and the development of ventilator-associated pneumonia influence the composition of the respiratory microbiomewhat is the bottom line duration of mechanical ventilation was associated but exposure to antibiotic therapy was not associated with dysbiosis of the respiratory microbiome and this was related to the development of ventilator-associated pneumonia.why read on the respiratory microbiome may play an important role in the development of lung disease.

the adapted island model predicts several changes in the respiratory microbiome during intubation and mechanical ventilation.objectives we hypothesized that mechanical ventilation and antibiotic administrationdecrease the diversity of the respiratory microbiome and that these changes are more profound in patients who develop vap.methods intubated and mechanically ventilated icu-patients were included.

this is in line with previous studies that report that the respiratory microbiome is disturbed markedly during pneumonia 29 30. we extend the finding of the limited studies done in icu-patients 25 31 32 as no control group was included in those studies and thus it was previously unknown what the normal dynamics in the respiratory microbiome were during mechanical ventilation.

the dynamics of the pulmonary microbiome during mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit and the association with occurrence of pneumoniatetyana zakharkina ignacio martin-loeches sebastien matamoros pedro povoa antoni torres janine b kastelijn jorrit j hofstra b. de wever menno de jong marcus j schultz peter j sterk antonio artigas and lieuwe dj bos.word count 3213. figures 7. tables 1corresponding author lieuwe dj bos phd.

duration of mechanical ventilation was associated with a decrease in alpha diversity shannon index fixed-effect regression coefficient ss -0.03 95ci -0.05 - -0.005 but the administration of antibiotic therapy was not fixed- effect ss 0.06 95ci -0.17 - 0.30. there was a significant difference in change of beta diversity between patients that developed vap and control patients for bray-curtis distances p  0.03 and for manhattan distances p  0.04. burkholderia bacillales and to a lesser extent pseudomonadales positively correlated with the change in beta diversity.conclusions mechanical ventilation but not antibiotic administration was associatedwith changes in the respiratory microbiome.

dysbiosis of microbial communities in the respiratory tract was most profound in patients that developed vap.introductionventilator-associated pneumonia vap is a frequent complication of mechanical ventilation 1 and has a considerable morbidity and mortality 2. micro-aspiration from oropharyngeal microbes seems to play a role in the etiology of vap 3. this claim is supported empirically by the effectiveness of topical antibiotics aimed to prevent pneumonia through prevention of oral colonization 4. notably the respiratory tract of many intubated and mechanically ventilated patients gets colonized with microorganisms without development of vap 5.during the past ten years the paradigm of a healthy lung is a sterile lung was challenged 6-10. the healthy lung appeared to be populated by multiple resident bacterial species that migrate to the distal airways from the oral cavity 7. according to the adapted island model the respiratory microbiome represents a dynamic community where the equilibrium point is achieved by the balance between immigration and elimination mechanisms 11.mechanical ventilation is assumed to imbalance this equilibrium due to several factors.

once a certain bacterial load is achieved because growth conditions are sufficient because of an altered lung physiology decreased ph presence of sputum potential pathogens may cause pneumonia 12.the above-described ecological perspective predicts several changes in the lung microbiome during mechanical ventilation.

our secondary hypotheses were that 2 duration of mechanical ventilation is associated with dysbiosis of the microbiome and 3 that these changes are more profound in patients that develop vap.

we also postulated that 4 bacteria that are relatively independent from the rest of the microbiome in a co- occurrence network are the ones that are recognized as potential pathogenic micro- organisms as has been shown for cystic fibrosis previously 13.methodsdesign and settingthis is a post-hoc analysis of tracheal aspirates of patients that were originally included in an international multi-centre prospective observational cohort study of the predictive value of biological markers for development of vap 14. the study protocol was reviewed and approved by the medical ethical committee of parc tauli sabadell spain irb 2008524. written informed consent was obtained from all patients or their legally authorized surrogates in accordance with local requirements.inclusion and exclusion criteriawe recruited patients on invasive mechanical ventilation for a non-infectious cause of respiratory failure between september 2008 and september 2010 without evidence of pneumonia on the chest radiograph at admission to the icu i.e.

beta diversity was given as weighted unifrac distances and summarised using principal coordinate analysis of bray-curtis and manhattan distances as these three combined represent most features of beta diversity 23. antibiotic exposure and the composition of the respiratory microbiome was visualised per day per patient.

the cultured pathogen was not always found to be highly abundant in the microbiome as measured by amplicon sequence analysis table s2.change in diversity during mechanical ventilation and antibiotic therapy.the changes in diversity over time are represented in figure 2 diversity decreased in all but 6 patients 83 during mechanical ventilation.

duration of mechanical ventilation was associated with a decrease in shannon diversity fixed effect regression coefficient ss -0.03 95ci -0.05 - -0.005 but the administration of antibiotic therapy was notfixed-effect ss 0.06 95ci -0.17 - 0.30. figure s1 shows the antibiotic exposure per patient.association of changes in microbiome with the development of vap.the changes in alpha diversity did not differ between patients that did and did not develop vap figure 2. there was a statistical difference in weighted unifrac distance between patients that developed vap and control patients without colonized airways figure 2 p  0.02 but not between patients that developed vap and patients with colonized airways p  0.24. beta-diversity was further studied by principal coordinate pco analysis of bray-curtis and manhattan distances.

bacteroidetes genera prevotella porphyromonas some bacillales genus gemella and several other otus had the highest connectivity at least 10 neighbors indicating a high prevalence and cooperative strategy.discussionthe data presented in this study support the adapted island model which predicts changes in the respiratory microbiome after intubation and start of mechanical ventilation.

in line with our hypothesis we found a difference in the dynamics of the respiratory microbiome between patients that did and did not develop pneumonia during mechanical ventilation.

dysbiosis in the respiratory tract seems to be more profound in patients that develop vap than in patients that do not develop pneumonia.duration of mechanical ventilation was found to be associated with a decrease in alpha diversity of the respiratory microbiome.

