established treatment strategies such as preoperative skin preparation are re-evaluated and novel ones such as vaccination prophylaxis against wound infection explored.infection in surgical patients may be split into two types that relatedto the surgical site or the wound and that which occurs at a remote site following the surgical procedure.

we have come a long way in under- standing and managing infection in surgical patients since listerian times and most patients undergo surgery without the complication of ssi.

doi 10.1002bjs.10468bjs is dedicating a special issue to surgical infection because infections in surgical patients are common debilitating and costly.

as surgery and perioperative care advance higher-risk patients includ- ing elderly patients and those with diabetes and jaundice many ofc 2017 bjs society ltdbjs 2017 104 e8-e10surgical infectione9whom would have previously been turned down for surgery are now offered operative management.

other infections occur in surgical patients including those related to indwelling catheters uri- nary and respiratory infections.

stakeholders are required to coord- inate their planning and actions and to report back to the un general assembly in september 2018. there is therefore a prescient need to discuss and develop alternative strategies to mitigate infection risk and develop appropriate robust antimicrobial stew- ardship in patients undergoing and recovering from surgery.

patients undergoing surgery however may also suffer the conse- quences of treatment with antimicro- bials designed to prevent or treat infections.

the sepsis six is now familiar to many surgeons as the name given to a bundle of medical therapies designed to reduce mortality in patients with sepsis.

these patients are also at high risk of ssi.

however the optimal management of these patients is still debated.

however non- elective surgery procedures are associated with a higher risk of ssi and many of these patients will have wounds that are difficult to close primarily or are contaminated.

biofilm formation may delay healing further and pose asignificant risk in patients with pros- thetic implants.

the gut microbiome has been recognized as key in both health and disease and can be harnessed as therapy in the form of nutrient enemas and faecal transplants in selected patients with antibiotic- associated colitis.

systematic review of the impact of hba1c on outcomes following surgery in patients with diabetes mellitus.

j. hinchliffe1 and j. j. earnshaw21bristol centre for surgical research school of social and community medicine university of bristol bristol and 2department of vascular surgery cheltenham general hospital sandford road cheltenham uk e-mail robert.hinchliffebristol.ac.ukpublished online in wiley online library www.bjs.co.uk.

