Ileal CD is restricted to the ileum and accounts for 30 of cases while colonic CD accounts for the remaining 20 of cases and may be particularly difficult to distinguish from ulcerative colitis UC The lowest incidence rates for CD are found in Asia and developing countries with higher rates in the Western World.For example the incidence of CD in Europe and North America is approximately 3 per 100000 people.

Depending on the specific region affected CD is classified as ileal CD or colonic CD.

Reduced expression of defensins was also found in patients with CD ileal CD is characterized-defensins while certain -defensins are implicated in colonic CD.

In this review the role defensins play in CD and the strategies aimed at overcoming bacterial resistance will be discussed.IntroductionCrohn's disease CD is one of the principal types of inflam- matory bowel disease IBD that can affect the intestinal mucosa.

Therefore the decreased abundance of B. fragilisand F. prausnitzii could contribute to the intestinal inflamma- tory status in patients with CD ii there is an increased level of the Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria phyla including the family of Enterobacteriaceae in patients with CD.

found significant differences between con- trol groups and patients with CD controls had a median of four copies while colonic patients with CD had a median of three .In the intestine HBD1 is partially under the control of the an essential mediator of intestinal homeosta- sis  Abnormal PPAR- production results in reduced antimicrobial activity of the mucosa.

Indeed a reduced immune tolerance to components of the intestinal commensal microbiota and inflammation of the intestinal barrier typifies patients with CD.

Recent studies have also identified a genetic association between CD susceptibility and autophagy genes including ATG16L1 Autophagy-Related 16-Like 1 and IRGM Immune-Related GTPase M Genetic immunologi- cal and microbial studies have shown that the etiology of IBD involves a reduced tolerance to components of the intestinal commensal microbiota Because of the large number of enteric bacteria in contact with the intestinal mucosal surface and the potential threat of opportunistic invasions a perfecthomeostasis is central for the maintenance of the intestinal- microbial interface.

Although these NOD2 mutations play a role in the etiology of CD several studies have demonstrated that they alone are not sufficient for the development of the disease.Restoring normal expression of AMPs may rebalance the intestinal microbiota and ameliorate intestinal inflammation.

CD can attack any part of the digestive tract but in 50 of cases it typically manifests in the gastrointestinal tract and can be classified based on the specific region affected as either ileal or colonic CD.

