the fasting glucose was measured using a biosensor based glucometer johnson  johnson inc. usa onetouch with a drop of blood from the tail vein and expressed as mgdl.oral glucose tolerance testogtt was performed to analyze how quickly the glu- cose is cleared from the blood the animals were fasted overnight prior to execution of ogtt blood was sampled by the tail vein and glucose was measured using the glucometer 0 min.

alterations in ecology and physiology of gut microbiota affects the host metabolism and thereby determines the transition between health and disease including diabetes for instance gut microbiota was proven to mediate the glucose in- tolerance induced by non-caloric artificial sweeteners thus the present study is designed to explore the effect of chronic op exposure on glucose homeostasis and to identify the role of gut microbiota in op-induced hyperglycemia.resultsplasma op residues associated with human diabetes based on the survey executed among the pesticide users including pesticide applicators farmers and pesticide sellersinthevillagesofvadapalanjipanchayat additional file figure s1 we found op constitutes nearly 50 of insecticide usage additional file figures2a additional file table s1.

collectively these results indicate that chronic op exposure induces glucose intolerance lead- ing to oxidative stress and hepatic damage.op-induced glucose intolerance mediated by gut microbiomeache inhibition is the prime mode of action of op but in our study both humans and mice exposed to chronic ops developed hyperglycemia but no changes in the level of plasma ache activity is observed.

though glucose intolerance was ob- served in oral treatment p 0.05 ri induced relatively significant glucose intolerance p 0.01 fig.

hence we provided the animals with 10x tmdi dose which is 47.2 times additional file figure s7a higher than the accept- able daily intake faowho 1996. in the absence of ache inhibition during chronic exposure the mechan- ism of op-induced glucose dyshomeostasis is not clearly defined the biodegradable nature of ops made them an ac- ceptable alternative to persistent organochlorines  recent studies showcased the role of gut microbiome in the action of drugs and other chemicals  fecal transplantation from mcp-fed animals induced glucose intolerance fig.

this is in concordance with previous reports that mal induces a gradual increase in blood glucose followed by decrease in blood glucose that can even reach hypoglycemia  chronic op exposure activates the expression of op metabolizing genes of the gut micro- biome fig.

b. intestinal gng was shown to induce benefits in glucose control since it initiates a neutrally mediated suppression of hepatic glucose pro- duction however when hepatic gng is strongly al- tered e.g.

subsequently the animals were gavaged with glucose solution 1.5 gkg body weight and blood glucose was monitored at 15 30 60 90 and 120 min.

200937 w652-60.mithieux g rajas f gautier-stein a. a novel role for glucose 6-phosphatase in the small intestine in the control of glucose homeostatis.

short-term effect of malathion on rats' blood glucose and on glucose utilization by mammalian cells in vitro.

genome biology 2017 188doi 10.1186s13059-016-1134-6gut microbial degradation of organophosphate insecticides-induces glucose intolerance via gluconeogenesisganesan velmurugan1 tharmarajan ramprasath2 krishnan swaminathan3 gilles mithieux4 jeyaprakash rajendhran5 mani dhivakar6 ayothi parthasarathy1 d.d.

altogether this study indicates a prob- able association between op accumulation and diabetic prevalence with no change in ache activity.chronic op impairs glucose tolerance and induces oxidative stresssince the human studies indicate the association be- tween plasma op residues and diabetes prevalence we examined whether chronic exposure to op is a risk fac- tor for hyperglycemia by studying a preclinical model of op exposure in balbc mice.

mcp-fed animals exhibited slow and steady increase in blood glucose levels especially after60 days p 0.0001 fig.

mcp-fed animals also showed impaired glucose toler- ance compared to untreated controls p 0.0001 fig.

ops are biodegradable by the microbes and xenobiotics were also reported to alter the gut microbiome and influence the physiology and pathology of mammals hence in the present study we analyzed the influence of gut microbiome in op-induced glucose dyshomeostasis.

