starch and cellulose.Celiac disease--a heritable autoimmune disorder where the ingestion of gluten can lead to severe damage of the small intestine.Cellulose--a polysaccharide that provides the structure of plant cell walls a source of dietary fiber that is indigestible by humans.Chemostat--a type of batch fermentation and culturing system that enables a controlled environment in order to regulate cell growth and allows for controlled input of fermentative substrate and removal of metabolites products of fermentation and cells pre- venting overgrowth as well growth limiting conditions.Cross-feed--when metabolites produced by one microbial group are used for energy by another.Crude fiber analysis--an analytical measurement that quantifiescellulose and lignin is no longer the standard practice for fiber analysis as it removes other components of fiber such as hemicel- lulose and pectin and is there an underestimate of total fiber content.Dicot--one of the two large groups of flowering plants or angio- sperms the other being monocot that is defined by having a pair of leaves called cotyledons in the seed embryo.Dietary breadth--the number and type of resources targeted and consumed not to be confused with the Dietary Breadth Model used in classic Optimal Foraging Theory that ranks resources distributed across the environment in different densities according to their nutritive value and processing costs.Dietary fiber--indigestible carbohydrates and structural compo-nents of plants.Diet-induced thermogenesis DIT--Energetic cost of digestion specifically related to the generation of heat above basal metabolic rate as a result of molecular reactions involved in digesting and incorporating nutrients into tissue.Drip loss--the loss of weight in food typically meat due to the dripping away of tissue juices and the evaporation of water that occurs during the process of cooking or thawing.Dry weight--refers to the weight of a particular food with the  moisture excluded may include inedible portion.Enzymatic gravimetric method--analytical measurement that quantifies total soluble and insoluble dietary fiber in foods.Eukaryote cells--cells with a membrane bound nucleus also called nucleated cells.FODMAPS--fermentable oligosaccharides disaccharides mono- saccharides and polyols typically derived from plants.Functional fiber--nondigestible carbohydrates that have healtheffects for consumers.Gelatinization--a process by which heating starch and water allows the water molecules to enter into the starch structure caus- ing the granules to swell.Glucose--a carbohydrate categorized as a simple sugar or mon- osaccharide that is broken down in the body to produce energy.Gluten--the naturally occurring proteins in found in wheat rye and barley.Glycoside hydrolases--universal and ubiquitous enzymes that hydrolyze glycosidic bonds in complex glycoside sugars.Hemicellulose--a matrix polysaccharide that is a structural com- ponent of plants that acts as an adhesive for plant walls a source of dietary fiber that is indigestible by humans.Hexose saccharide--a monosaccharide with six carbon atoms.Holobiont--the host plant or animal plus of all its microbial symbionts.Industrial food processing--the transformation of raw animal vegetable or marine resources into edible products through the application of labor machinery energy andor scientific knowledge includes grinding homogenization pasteurization defatting liquefac- tion and emulsification.Insoluble fiber--not soluble in water.Inulin--a polysaccharide of fructose molecules produced by plants a source of dietary fiber that is indigestible by humans.Joule--a form of kinetic energy that can be converted to calories and kilocalories.Kilocalorie kcal--the precise term in nutrition science used to refer to a unit of food energy equivalent to 1000 calories.Kilojoule kJ--Standard unit of food energy in many countries equates to 1000 joules.Large Calorie--spelled with a capital C also known as the kilo- gram calorie or food calorie equates to 1000 small calories or 1 kilocalorie technically refers to the amount of heat required at a pressure of one atmosphere to raise the temperature of 1 kilogram of water by 1 degree Celsius.Macronutrients--nutrients that provide the most energy include carbohydrates protein and fat.Metabolite--the products of metabolism.Metabolomics--the quantification of the profile of metabolites produced by a community of organisms or tissues.Metagenomics--the study of all genes and genomes in a given sample.Metataxonomics--the study of the taxonomic profile and rela-tionships of organisms in a given sample.Metatranscriptomics--the study of all expressed RNA in a given sample by sequencing the complimentary DNA cDNA.Methanogens--archaea that produce methane as a byproduct of metabolism.Microbiome--the sum of symbiotic i.e.

It equates to approxi- mately 4.2 joules.Strain level--characterization of subgroups microorganisms that otherwise share genetic homology at the level of species 98.9 based on the 16S rRNA gene based on the variance of specific genes across genomes.Soluble fiber--soluble in water.Starch--source of carbohydrate that can be divided into two components amylose and amylopectin digestible by humans.Sugar--general term for soluble carbohydrates.Third molar occlusion--when the upper and lower molars are in functional contact.Traditional food processing--the purposeful external modifica-tion of a resource to change its physical or chemical attributes in preparation for consumption uses non-mechanized technological methods of food processing such as fermentation germination mechanical processing thermal treatment dehydration and preservation.Wet weight--the fresh raw weight of a food with percent  moisture included may include inedible portion.Xenotoxin--a toxin originating outside of the body examples include pesticides or antibiotics.ACKNOWLEDGMENTS The authors would like to thank Daniel Benyshek Nancy Conklin- Brittain Amanda Henry Kim Hill Margaret Schoeninger and Peter Ungar for the stimulating and thought provoking discussions that were the inspiration for this article.REFERENCES Abrams E. T. Kwiek J. J. Mwapasa V. Kamwendo D. D. Tadesse E. Lema V. M. ... Meshnick S. R. 2005.

Interpretations of diet based upon the contribution of a food item to total diet per unit mass versus per unit energy will lead to wildly differ- ent perceptions about the value of that food item e.g.

Scientific Reports 6 1-9.Tyakht A. V. Kostryukova E. S. Popenko A. S. Belenikin M. S. Pav- lenko A. V. Larin A. K. ... Alexeev D. G. 2013.

NUTRITION SCIENCE AND FORAGER DIET The field of nutrition science most notably deals with the relationships between food composition physiology and disease while nutritional anthropology may be considered a more qualitative perspective on the role that food plays in sociocultural biological and evolutionary aspects of the human condition.

Fur- thermore even if we take the starting point of weight grams of food and assume that most studies in the Atlas used this unit of measure- ment there is no clear indication of how successive authors may select which categories of food to include in their summary andor how authors may go from field weight grams to energy for each specific food.

co-residing microbiota and their genomes metabolites and the surrounding environment.Microbiota--viruses bacteria archaea and single and multicellu- lar eukaryotes.Micronutrients--nutrients that include vitamins and minerals.Mismatch hypothesis--the idea that organisms including humans are adapted to a past evolutionary environment and pos- sess traits that conferred a selective advantage in that ecology which are currently mismatched to the current environment also referred to as evolutionary discordance.Moisture content--the amount of water in a food often expressed as a percent typically calculated as the difference in sam- ple weight of food from fresh to dry and then divided by the original fresh weight of the food and multiplied by 100.Monocot--one of the two large groups of flowering plants or angiosperms the other being dicot that is defined by having only one leaf called a cotyledon in the seed embryo.Monosaccharide--the most basic unit of a carbohydrate also called simple sugar an example of a monosaccharide is glucose.Monounsaturated fatty acids MUFAs--a type of fatty acids defined chemically as having one double bond in the fatty acid chain with all other carbon atoms single bonded.Native starch--starch granules derived directly from the plant source without altering their chemical structure i.e.

It is our sincere hope that work among foraging populations in both cultural and biological disciplines continues to include the voi- ces of the people themselves as the world documents the final stages of transition for these few remaining groups.GLOSSARYArabinoxylans--a polymer of the pentose sugars arabinose and xylose that comprises hemicellulose found in the cell walls of plants.Amylopectin--a polysaccharide that is one of two main compo- nents of starch the other being amylose which makes up approxi- mately 70-80 of native starch.Amylose--a polysaccharide that is one of two main components of starch the other being amylopectin which makes up approxi- mately 20-30 of native starch.Atwater system--a standard method of calculating the metaboliz- able energy ME content of food based on measurements of the heat of combustion of carbohydrates proteins and fats it has fre- quently been called into question for accuracy of ME because the system does not address diet induced thermogenesis DIT discrimi- nate between ileal and total tract digestibility or account for varia- tion in energy harvest due to the gut microbiome.Batch fermentation--a system for fermenting a substrate using adiverse community of microorganisms under anaerobic conditions usually in a bioreactor until the substrate is completely exhausted and converted into metabolites a type of batch fermentation is chemostat.Batch in-vitro culturing--system that simulates host physiological conditions to grow and maintain viable microbial communities that func- tion and produce metabolites as would be expected in the host organism.Binding sites--locations on a molecule that allow an enzyme to dock and interact with that molecule.Bioaccessibility--the portion of a substrate that is made available for absorption.Bioavailability--originally used refer to the rate and extent that a compound reached the site of activity has recently broadened to include the measurement of the fraction of a compound that may be absorbed into systemic circulation.Calorie Cal--the commonly used parlance for a unit of food energy.

The criteria for categorizing a foraging popula- tion based on diet composition shifted to mean that approximately 10-15 of the diet came from domesticated foods Kelly 1995.

The extracted data for 229 popula- tions from the Atlas suggests that in tundra circumpolar environmentswith limited foliage meat from hunted or fished animal foods contrib-utes approximately 85 of the diet of the diet.

