fec-ex colonic feces of ex-gf mice fec-gf colonic feces of gf mice col-ex colon of ex-gf mice col-gf colon of gf mice pp-ex portal plasma of ex-gf mice pp-gf portal plasma of gf mice cp-ex cardiac plasma of ex-gf mice cp-gf cardiac plasma of gf mice.c pca of metabolome profiles in each specimen.doi10.1371journal.pone.0169207.g002classification of metabolites according to the ex-gfgf ratioin the present study 146 colonic fecal metabolites detected in all mice were selected for analy- sis 122 metabolites that were detected in colonic feces and colonic tissue are shown in  and 24 metabolites that were detected in colonic feces but not in colonic tissue are shown in .

metabolites detected in only ex-gf or gf mice are indicated in red or green without the number respectively.although the ex-gfgf ratio was 0.8 in cardiac plasma the ratio was judged as similar because there was no significant difference between portal and cardiac plasma.doi10.1371journal.pone.0169207.t001feces indicating that many low-molecular-weight metabolites influenced by the intestinal microbiome are bioavailable.from the classification of metabolites based on the ex-gfgf ratio of each specimen we estimated the influence of these metabolites in health and disease.

although many blood metabolites have been reported to be different between gf and ex-gf mice  no compre- hensive data are available to indicate that blood and colonocytes contain bacterial metabolites derived from the colonic lumen because appropriate analytical methods are not available.there is a general concept that the role of the colon is mainly to absorb water electrolytes and some vitamins thus in the field of gastrointestinal physiology and nutrition there have been few reports indicating that low-molecular-weight chemicals are absorbed from the large intes- tine and physiologists and nutritionists have typically not considered metabolites produced by intestinal bacteria as research targets.

furthermore 56 metabolites all of the metabolites except for stachydrine lactic acid thiamine 5-oxopro- line trp and methionine sulfoxide showed differences between gf and ex-gf in colonic the exgfgf ratio and the influence of 3 gateways on each metabolite detected in the colonic feces colon portal plasma and cardiac plasma.continued table 1. continued continued table 1. continued continued table 1. continued  metabolites are transported without selection by the gateway.

we classified the metabolites according to the following influencing factors i the membrane transport system of the colonocytes ii metabolism during trans- cellular transport and iii hepatic metabolism based on the similarity in the ratio of each metabolite between gf and ex-gf mice and found 62 and 22 metabolites that appeared to be absorbed from the colonic lumen to colonocytes and blood respectively.

in con- trast the relationships between bacterial metabolites and healthdisease are not well known except for specific metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids scfa .

in this study we tried to identify the bioavailable low- molecular-weight metabolites transported to middle colonic tissue andor blood from the colonic lumen.it is theoretically possible for transportation of specific substances to be detected using sta- ble or radioactive isotopes   however it is impossible to comprehensively detect a large number of metabolites using these methods.

b metabolites with different ex-gfgf ratios between colonic feces and colonic tissue are controlled by i membrane transport system c metabolites with different ex-gfgf ratios between colonic tissueand portal plasma are controlled by ii metabolism during transcellular transport.

therefore in this study the ex-gfgf ratio of metabolites present at higher concentrations in ex-gf mice than in gf mice was defined as 21.25 and the ex-gfgf ratio of metabolites present at lower concentrations in ex-gf mice than in gf mice was defined as  0.8.statistical analysisibm spss statistics japan ibm tokyo software was used to conduct statistical analyses.

the levels of individual metabolites in gf and ex-gf mice were compared using fisher's exact test.resultsanalysis of the metabolomes of the colonic feces colon portal plasma and cardiac plasma of gf and ex-gf micece-tofms identified 170 246 166 and 193 metabolites from the colonic feces colonic tissue portal plasma and cardiac plasma respectively.

twenty-four metabolites were not detected in the colonic tissue .therefore these metabolites are not transported to the body from the colonic lumen.

although this study does not provide direct evidence that low-molecular- weight metabolites influenced by intestinal microbiome are absorbed into the body from the large intestine it contributes to the field of nutrition by providing a list of low-molecular- weight metabolites that are transported to the body from the colonic lumen.

research articlecolonic absorption of low-molecular-weight metabolites influenced by the intestinal microbiome a pilot studymitsuharu matsumoto12 takushi ooga3 ryoko kibe2 yuji aiba4 yasuhiro koga4 yoshimi benno2dairy science and technology institute kyodo milk industry co. ltd. hinode-mach tokyo japanbenno laboratory innovation center riken wako japan 3 human metabolome technologies inc. tsuruoka japan 4 department of infectious diseases tokai university school of medicine isehara japan current address department of veterinary pathobiology school of veterinary medicine nippon veterinary and life science university.

musashino tokyo japan abstractopen accesscitation matsumoto m ooga t kibe r aiba y koga y benno y 2017 colonic absorption of low-molecular-weight metabolites influenced by the intestinal microbiome a pilot study.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data are within the paper and its supporting information files.funding this work was in part supported by the programme for promotion of basic and applied researches for innovations in bio-oriented industry by the bio-oriented technology research advancement institution brain japan and by kyodo milk industry co. ltd. the funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of thelow-molecular-weight metabolites produced by the intestinal microbiome play a direct role in health and disease.

