the number of otus shared by 100 of the samples from each gi section varied from only two in the distal jejunum to 45 otus in rectal samples table h in .not surprisingly samples from the upper and lower gi tract formed two distinct clusters when analyzed using weighted unifrac distances and pcoa fig b in  p  0.001 r- value  0.57. when the gi section that the sample was derived from was included in the anal- ysis the samples still clustered largely by gi tract location upper and lower rather than by individual gi section although some duodenum samples appeared to cluster between the lower gi tract samples and the other upper gi tract samples fig ca in  p  0.05. in the lower gi tract samples clustered together mostly on the basis of host rather than on ana- tomical location within the gi tract fig cb in  p  0.001 r-value  0.67.discussionchanges in bacterial community structure along the gi tract has been well documented in humans    and more recently in other animals such as cats  horses  and dairy cows  using fingerprinting methods or 16s rrna gene clone libraries.

although turicibacter has been described as being relatively abundant in the cecum  colon  and feces  of feedlot cattle it has also been reported to be enriched in the ileum and jejunum of dairy cattle .the environmental conditions in the gi tract such as digesta ph reduced in the upper gi tract passage time faster in the upper gi tract or nutrient availability and composition are all factors that may account for differences in microbiota along the gi tract.

due to public health concerns and the role of cattle in disseminating e. coli o157h7 this microorganism has a significant negative impact on the beef production industry.heterogeneous shedding among cattle has been observed where most animals shed only transiently low levels  100 cfu g-1 feces of e. coli o157h7 while a small number of cattle excrete large quantities of this pathogen or shed lower levels over longer periods of time .

despite their low prevalence within a feedlot typically 1 of animals super-shedders are believed to be responsible for the majority of e. coli o157h7 shed in the feces of cattle and the largest transmitters of this pathogen in feedlots   .the primary site of e. coli o157h7 colonization in cattle has been shown to be the rectal- anal junction raj   and strong associations between raj colonization and super- shedder andor long-term shedder status have been established  .

within the upper gi tract sam- ples only the genus mogibacterium was found in each sample while in the lower gi tract tur- cibacter clostridium and ruminococcus were common to all samples.effect of e. coli o157h7 shedding status on the bovine gi tract microbiotadifferentially abundant phyla and genera between super-shedders and non-shedders were identified using lefse lda score log10  3.0 p  0.05 for pooled data of gastrointestinal samples.

cattle are con- sidered the primary reservoir of e. coli o157h7 with super-shedders defined as individuals excreting  104 e. coli o157h7 cfu g-1 feces.

however at the individual animal level the enrichment of ruminococcus within the super-shedding group appeared to be the result of one steer which had a relatively high proportion  26 of this genus within the duodenum proximal mid and distal jejunum and the descending colon.overall in terms of bacterial diversity none of the diversity or richness metrics differed sig- nificantly based on e. coli o157h7 shedding status when lower and upper gi tract samplesdifferentially abundant genera associated with e. coli o157h7 super-shedders as assessed using linear discriminant analysis effect size lefse.

these findings reinforced linkages between e. coli o157h7 colonization in cattle and the nature of the microbial community inhabiting the digestive tract of super- shedders.data availability statement all raw sequence data described in this study are available throughncbi's short-read archives bioprojectprjna258277 sra identifier srp047129.additional data has also been provided in the formof supporting information files.funding this research work was conducted with the funding from the 'alberta livestock and meat agency ltd. genome alberta as well as the abase program of agriculture and agri-food canada.

in addition both the pcoa and the alpha diversity analysis by section of the gi tract indicated more variability among the spiral colon samples in the non-shedders than in the super-shedders.in conclusion this study provides new insight into the total gut microbiota of cattle shed- ding e. coli o157h7.

when samples were grouped by upper vs. lower gi tract the upper gi tract samples had fewer otus and lower chao1 shan- non index and pd whole tree values than the lower gi tract samples  p  0.05. there were also 43 genera that were differentially abundant at one of the nine gi sections as assessed by lefse fig a in  lda score log10 3.0 p  0.05. among the most relatively abun- dant genera  1 of sequences overall turicibacter was enriched in the mid jejunum prevo- tella and lactobacillus in the duodenum smb53 in the distal jejunum clostridium in the rectum and cf231 and oscillospira in the cecum.

the present study is aimed at comparing the composition and structure of the gastrointestinal gi microbiota at several different gi locations in e. coli o157h7 super-shedders and non-shedders to deter- mine if previously observed differences in fecal communities were associated with specific regions of the intestinal tract.materials and methodssuper-shedder identification and study designthe identification of e. coli o157h7 super-shedders within the feedlot has been previously described in detail  .

e. coli o157h7 super-shedders 104 e. coli o157h7 cfug of fecal material were identified by enumeration on ct-smac sorbitol macconkey with tellurite and cefixime dalynn biologicals calgary alberta canada as described by niu et al.

research articlechanges in bacterial community composition of escherichia coli o157h7 super-shedder cattle occur in the lower intestinerahat zaheer1 eric dugat-bony2 devon holman1 elodie cousteix3 yong xu3krysty munns1 lorna j. selinger1 rutn barbieri1 trevor alexander1 tim a. mcallister1l.

2017 changes in bacterial community composition of escherichia coli o157h7 super-shedder cattle occur in the lower intestine.

a number of epidemiological studies have shown that up to 30 of feedlot cattle shed e. coli o157h7 inand analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.their feces    .

