all of the c. sporogenes isolates were able to degrade ergovaline with total degradation values ranging from 54 to 75 over 48 h table 2 p  0.01. additionally similar levels of degradation were observed by other hab tested c. sporogenes md1 67 c. aminophilum f 59 c. sticklandii sr 64 p. an- aerobius bg1 54. to control for the possibilities of sequestration and non-biological degradation the c. spo- rogenes tu2 isolate was heat killed autoclaved 121degctable 2. degradation  of ergovaline by select bac- teria fermenting fescue seed extract 48 h 39degc1indole.

1993 who observed a linear decline in ergova- line concentrations over 48 h in the soluble fraction of a rumen fluid fermentation of toxic endophyte-infect- ed tall fescue plant material ex vivo.984harlow et al.previous research has demonstrated that toxic com- pounds including ergot alkaloids are liberated from plant material by ruminal fermentation de lorme et al.

the results of the current study suggest that proliferation of a specific population of tryptophan-utilizing bacteria could be responsible for the degradation of ergovaline in the rumen.predominant tryptophan-utilizing bacteria from the highest enrichments containing fescue seed extract after 48 h of incubation were also characterized and identified table 1.. all 3 isolates were gram-positive spore form- ing rods that produced ammonia from tryptophan but notcato et al.

the results of this study indicate which rumen bacteria may play an important role in ergovaline degradation and that microbiological strategies for controlling their activity could have ramifications for fescue toxi- cosis and other forms of ergotism in ruminants.key words ergot alkaloids ergovaline microbial degradation protein ruminant tall fescue toxicosisc 2017 american society of animal science.

ionophores chen and russell 1989. however the re- sults of the current study suggests that these bacteria may play an important role in ergovaline degradation in the rumen but future work is required to determine if ergovaline degradation impacts tall fescue toxicosis.microbial ergovaline degradation end products were not measured in the current study.

2007 2009. consequently ruminants that graze toxic endophyte-infected tall fescue can exhibit poor reproduction and growth performance that can annually cost the forage-based livestock industry well over a billion dollars strickland et al.

2011.ergot alkaloids have been found to be susceptible to microbial degradation in the rumen moyer et al.

ergovaline is the er- gopeptine produced in the greatest concentration by the tall fescue endophyte representing 84 to 97 of the er- gopeptine fraction lyons et al.

the goats had previously received endophyte-infected tall fescue seed but the seed had not been included in the diet  1 y when the samples were taken.media compositionthe basal medium contained per liter 240 mg kh2po4 240 mg k2hpo4 480 mg na2so4 480mg nacl 64 mg cacl2 x 2h2o 100 mg mgso4 x7h2o 600 mg cysteine hydrochloride with additional vitamins and trace minerals as previously described russell et al.

a tall fescue seed extract was prepared as described by foote et al.

1. p  0.02. no differences in ergovaline degradation were observed between 24 and 48 h p  0.05. these results are similar to research by moyer et al.

furthermore in vitro fermentation studies with tall fescue have demonstrated that feeding rats a whole seed diet that was previously in- cubated with rumen fluid is less toxic than feeding a seed that was not incubated which suggests that rumen micro- biota reduce toxic compounds westendorf et al.

microscopic analysis of the cell suspen-982harlow et al.sions indicated that there were prokaryote-sized cells with little plant fiber or protozoa.ex vivo rumen ergovaline degradation experimentan initial experiment was conducted to determine the effect of substrate on ergovaline degradation by ru- men microorganisms.

therefore the following experiments were conducted to identify the rumen microorganisms responsible for ergo- valine degradation.preliminary experiments suggested that ergova-line degradation was enhanced by trypticase addition 100 degradation more than by glucose 4 degra- dation or the combination of glucose and trypticase 37 degradation data not shown.

similar results p  0.01 were also observed after 48 h of fermentation.rumen microbial community adaptation to changes in substrate availablity is a well-demonstrated phenom- enon church 1988. two possible ways that the mi- crobial community can rapidly adapt to changes in theergovaline degradation by rumen bacteria985table 1. closest phylogenetic relative  97 16s gene sequence identity and characterization of cap- rine tryptophan-utilizing bacteria isolated from rumen cell suspensions fermenting trypticase enzymatic casein hydrolysate  fescue seed extracttryptophan-utilizer isolate idgenetic idnh3 fromtryptophan1indole from tryptophan2tu1clostridium sporogenes-tu2clostridium sporogenes-tu3clostridium sporogenes-1ammonia was quantified using the method of chaney and marbach 1962.2indole production from tryptophan was assessed by the addition of kovac's reagent.figure 3. effect of fescue seed extract addition on the viable num- ber of total tryptophan-utilizing bacteria in caprine rumen cell suspen- sions n  3 fermenting trypticase enzymatic casein hydrolysate 15 mg ml-1.

