therefore a better understanding of bv-associated g. vaginalis biofilm physiology and virulence is needed to understand the high persistence and resistance of biofilm cells.the purpose of our study was therefore to identify the major transcriptomic features of bv-associated g. vaginalis biofilms as compared to their planktonic counterparts using high-throughput rna-sequencing rna-seq.transcriptomic comparisons between biofilm and planktonic cultures that have been carried out for staphylococcus aureusstaphylococcus epidermidisstreptococ- cus mutansand streptococcus pneumoniaindicate that gene- regulated processes in the biofilm led to a protective mode of growth by developing an effective cellular response to stress and decreasing metabolic activity.herein we sequenced the transcriptome of bv-associated g. vaginalis biofilms and planktonic cultures and used a data analysis approach based on direct and functional gene interactions namely gene set enrichment and cluster analysis.resultstranscriptome analysisa total of 561302 planktonic phenotype and 311643 biofilm phenotype sequencing reads were obtained for the complemen- tary dna cdna libraries.

moreover in bv-associated g. vaginalis biofilm cells transcript levels of the gene hmpref04240573 which encodes a lysm domain-containing protein possibly associated with autoaggrega- tion of g. vaginalis were also increased similar to what was observed for lactobacillus reuteri biofilms.transcripts encoding the comea protein hmpref04240943 which is involved in dna repair and nlpa lipoprotein hmpref04240888 gene which is involved in abc transporters were also found in greater abundance in biofilms cells.transcriptome analysis of gardnerella vaginalisj castro et al3fig.

importantly our findings provide key insights into the development of biofilms and the pathogenicity of g. vaginalis the predominant bacterial species isolated in women with bv.here we showed that bv-associated g. vaginalis biofilm cells alter their gene expression profile namely transcript levels of genes involved in metabolism with downregulation of genes associated with glycolysis and carbon metabolism and translation with downregulation of genes encoding ribosomal proteins as also reported for other microorganisms such as s. epidermidiss.

several studies have highlighted the role of vly gene in g. vaginalis virulence.the vly gene belongs to the cholesterol-dependent cytolysins cdcs a family of pore-forming toxins which cause cytotoxicity on vaginal epithelium.

rna-seq reads were aligned to the reference genome of g. vaginalis strain 409-05 genbank accession number nc013721.gene expression was normalized using rpkm that account for both library size and gene length as described by mortazavi and colleagues.to detect significant gene expression alterations kal's testwith fdrcorrection was applied.

 articleopencomparative transcriptomic analysis of gardnerella vaginalisbiofilms vs. planktonic cultures using rna-seqjoana castro123 angela franca1 katie r. bradwell4 myrna g. serrano4 kimberly k. jefferson3 and nuno cerca 1introductionbacterial vaginosis bv is the most prevalent vaginal condition in women of reproductive age and can cause several problems such as preterm birth endometritis and increased risk of acquisition and transmission of sexual transmitted diseases.examination of vaginal biopsy specimens has demonstrated that most cases of bv are characterized by the adherence of a bacterial biofilm to the vaginal epithelium and that gardnerella vaginalis is the pre- dominant species of the biofilm mass.however g. vaginalis colonization does not always lead to bv.

2 kegg pathways found significantly enriched p  0.05 within the genes with increased and decreased transcription in biofilm cellscluster analysisgene clustering analysis was based on direct and functional gene interactions using cytoscape.cytoscape was used to create a gene interaction network including all differently expressed genes and neighbors yielding a total of 764 nodes and 7685 edges complete gene network of differently expressed genes is shown in the supplementary material fig.

normalized gene expression was determined by using the delta ct method edct a variation of the livak method where dct  ct reference gene--ct target gene and e stands for the reaction efficiency experimentally determined.

furthermore bv- associated g. vaginalis biofilm cells showed decreased transcript levels of genes encoding several factors involved in energy production such as hmpref04241336 a gene encoding primary receptors for chemotaxis and transport of many sugar based solutes.

taken together these results imply that g. vaginalis biofilm cells are characterized by the reduction of basic cell processestranslation and metabo- lism glycolysis and carbon metabolism.among the transcripts elevated in biofilm cells we found hmpref04240563a gene with a molecular function related to hydrolase activity.

in conclusion our findings showed that the gene expression profile of bv-associated g. vaginalis biofilms charac- terizes a distinct physiologic status that may promote the chronic and recurrent nature of bv.materials and methodsbacterial strainsg.

transcripts uniquely expressed in each condition were identified using bioinfogp.data were deposited at gene expression omnibus database accession number gse8012 available at .biological interactionsin order to determine the function of differentially expressed genes gene ontology go and kegg pathway assignations and enrichment analysis were performed using the search tool for the retrieval of interacting genesproteins string version 10.in addition uniprot repositorywas used to determine the function of proteins that were not identified by string.

dynamics of gene expression revealed by comparison of serial analysis of gene expression transcript profiles from yeast grown on two different carbon sources.

in addition the expression levels of genes associated with glucose metabolic pathways were also lower in biofilms cells namely gap that also has a role in oxidoreductase activity and gpma that displays an important role in a subpathway of the glycolysis pathway glycolysisgluconeogenesis pathway of g. vaginalis 409-05 is shown in the supplementary material fig.

biological process indicates enrichment p  0.05 in translation and metabolic process a cell-wall biosynthesis biogenesis and mismatch repair b and kegg indicates b-lactamase resistance cupregulation of the transcription of potential virulence genes in g. vaginalis biofilmsbiofilm formation by pathogenic bacteria is often associated with altered virulence.

