2012. this system which has also been found in p. acnes may cause phage ineffectiveness bruggemann and lood 2013.another limitation associated with the application of p. acnes phages is the high homogeneity within p. acnes phages which may be beneficial with the use of phage formulations of broad activity and application of available ready to use phages of limited activity avoiding phage typing.

however acquisition of resistance to one phage may result in resistance to others bruggemann and lood 2013. the effect of p. acnes phages' homogeneity may limit the efficacy of the phage therapy.the term pseudolysogeny for p. acnes phages was first mentioned in 2011 by lood and collin 2011. probably most if not all p. acnes phages characterized to date display pseudolysogeny farrar et al.

currently there are data regarding isolation of p. acnes phages and there have been numerous studies on phage killing of p. acnes but no data are available on phage application specifically in acne treatment.

in this review we have summarized the current knowledge on the phages active against p. acnes described so far and their potential application in the treatment of acne associated with p. acnes.

2008. the presence of specific phylotypes of p. acnes is thought to be associated with the disease rather than the abundance of p. acnes tomida et al.

2013. another sequencing analysis suggested that acquired dna sequences of p. acnes and its immune elements were important in determining the virulence of p. acnes and these elements should be the therapeutic target fitz-gibbon et al.

moreover factors that have only been suggested to play a part in p. acnes pathogenesis there is no experimental evidence are co-hemolytic camp factor 5 geha lipase putative hemolysin tly sialidases neuraminidases endoglycoceramidases bruggemann 2005. the facts that p. acnes may persist inside macrophages prostate-infiltrating macrophages and the human macrophage cell line thp-1 and that it survives phagocytosis are very important for the pathogenesis of other diseases associated with this pathogen.

in the skin microenvironment where there is a lack of bacteria other than p. acnes and their phages p. acnes phages are proved to be closely related.

the characteristics of described p. acnes bacteriophages are presented in table 2.antibiotic resistance of p. acnes is emerging liu et al.

these enzymes probably bind to essential elements of the p. acnes cell wall and may kill a broad range of p. acnes strains.

2013.the etiology of acne is multifactorial but probably the main agent associated with acne is the bacterium p. acnes.

this pathogen is associated with acne but the causality of the disease is not clear and the exact role of p. acnes in acne is controversial.

this therapy may replace or supplement conventional antibiotictherapy help eliminate antibiotic resistance of bacterial strains and eliminate deleterious effects of chemical antibiotics.there is a need to develop phage therapy of acne but more research is needed to understand bacteria-bacteriophage interactions in the skin community to obtain comprehensive knowledge on how to use phages to combat p. acnes when it becomes pathogenic in the pathogenesis of acne vulgaris.

j. burns trauma 4 66-73.salmond g. p. and fineran p. c. 2015. a century of the phage sardana k. gupta t. kumar b. gautam h. k. and garg v. k. 2016. a cross-sectional pilot study of antibiotic resistance in propionibacterium acnes strains in indian acne patients using 16s-rna polymerase chain reaction a comparison among treatment modalities including antibiotics benzoyl peroxide and isotretinoin.

9 2078-2093. doi loc-carrillo c. and abedon s. t. 2011. pros and cons of phage therapy.bacteriophage 1 111-1114. doi lood r. 2011. propionibacterium acnes and its phages.

