DGGE is a powerful tool based on the direct analysis of the extract of DNA from the microbial environment and does not require cell cultivation This method has been used success- fully to evaluate the bacterial composition of probiotic products and to identify or profile bacteria in dairy products As DGGE could only identify bacteria representing more than 1-3 of total bacteria this method only identified three dominant bacteria namely L. gasseri L. johnsonii and L. plantarum of which L. gasseri and L. johnsonii could tolerate the extremely low pH in the stomach and were dominant in all groups with or without the administra- tion of H. pylori SS1 or herb residue fermentation supernatant both in bacterial DGGE and lactobacilli DGGE L. gasseri has long been used as a probiotic and in the treatment of H. pylori SS1 infection Moreover although outside interference exhibited lit- tle influence on the dominant lactobacilli species it seemed that the addition of H. pylori SS1 had disturbed the microbial diversity in H. pylori SS1 infection model and the administration of herb residue fermentation supernatant helped to restore the former microbial balance in the mouse stomachs In conclusion we have shown in the H. pylori SS1 mouse modelthat herb residue fermentation supernatant can inhibit urease activity reduce the level of the gastric inflammatory cytokines IL-6 IL-8 and TNF-a alleviate histological lesions and help to recover the disturbed microbiota to a normal level.

In addition the histologi- cal image of the gastric area indicated that the gavage of the herb residue fermentation supernatant had clearly lowered the chronic inflammation of the gastric mucosa and reduced the colonization of H. pylori SS1  and C and the ELISA results confirmed that the herb residue fermentation supernatant had significantly reduced the production of IL-6 123.43 - 20.52-85.87 - 16.64IL-8110.83 - 18.23-76.34 - 16.31andTNF-a132.44 - 25.65-97.45 - 16.89 in the gastricmucosa.Effects of the herb residue fermentation supernatant on the microbial diversity in the stomachAs shown in the dominant bacteria in the stomach were relatively low in number and only several lactobacilli species mostly L. gasseri GU417842.1 and L. johnsonii HQ828141.1 maintained dominance regardless of the administration of H. pylori SS1 or herb residue fermentation supernatant The lacto- bacilli DGGE results also confirmed the same trends DiscussionIn China Jianweixiaoshi tablets bring more than 1.2 billion RMB income for the enterprise each year but they also pro-duce approximately 100 000 t of herb residue.

Therefore the medicinal components remaining in the herb residue should be useful for stomach diseases.In our previous studies L. plantarum HM218749 was isolated from the human intestine and was shown to tolerate low pH and high concentrations of salt bile as well as to possess high adher- ence capability and anti-adherence properties against food-borne pathogens both in vivo and in vitro In this study its high sur- vival rate in extreme acid pH  1.5-3.5 and bile salt conditions 0.3 ensure its survival in the stomach to exert its probiotic effect and strong anti-H. pylori SS1effect Moreover the high num- ber of L. plantarum HM218749 in herb residue 8.5 LG CFUg without any additives offers us more options for the development of drugs or healthcare products.To verify the anti-H. pylori effect of the herb residue fermenta- tion supernatant we employed the SS1 H. pylori mouse model and verified its reliability using urease activity testing and histological imaging S-1.

The experiment was conducted in duplicate Preparation of herb residue extract and fermentation supernatantThe herb residue of Jianweixiaoshi tablets was obtained from River Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. and was mashed using a pulper within 2 h. The probiotics L. plantarum HM218749 L. reuteri EU547310 L. rhamnosus RS05630 L. Johnsoni RS03965 andL.

All the data showed that we had successfully established the H. pylori SS1 infection model.Treatment of H. pylori SS1-infected mice with herb residue fermentation supernatantBefore the formal experiment 0.1 ml 0.3 ml 0.5 ml and 0.7 ml of herb residue fermentation supernatants were used to evaluate the suitable dose for SS1-infected mice and the dose of 0.5 ml was chosen for its sound treating effect.

pylori infection and our results showed that the herb residue fermentation supernatant successfully inhibited urease activity in the treatment group Moreover H. pylori achieved the sub- stantial infiltration of lymphocytes and neutrophils in the infected group while the herb residue fermentation supernatant clearly slowed the inflammatory response of the gastric mucosa and reduced the colonization of H. pylori SS1 which was con- firmed by the IL-6 IL-8 and TNF-a protein levels evaluated by ELISA.

The PCR products for sequencing were purified using the QIA quick PCR purification kit and were sub-cloned using the pMD18-T vector sys- tem I Takara according to the manufacturer's instructions and the transformants were randomly picked and sequenced in Invitrogen Shanghai China.ResultsAcid salt and antibacterial test of the probioticsThe populations of L. plantarum HM218749 L. reuteriEU547310 L. rhamnosus RS05630 L. Johnsoni RS03965 andL.

plantarum HM218749 could be used as a potential strain for the development of herb residues and D.Evaluation of the H. pylori SS1 infection modelThe urease experiments showed that the mice administered H. pylori SS1 were urease positive S-1 and the histopathological evaluation revealed a significant increase in mucosal inflamma- tion in the gastric body HE.The Giemsa stain also indicated a high colonization number of H. pylori SS1 S-1B and S-1C.

Therefore the combination of Jianweixiaoshi herb residue and L. plantarum HM218749 pro- vides a novel method for the use of herb residue to better address the environmental pollution problem and waste of medicinal ingre- dients contained in herb residues.FundingNo funding sources.Competing interestsNone declared.Ethical approvalNot required.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by grants from the National Natural Science Foundation of China No.

In addition the DGGE results indicated that the herb residue fermentation supernatant was beneficial for the recovery of the disturbed microbiota in the infected model to the normal condition in which L. gasseri GU417842.1 and L. johnsonii HQ828141.1 were dominant in all groups.

