we performed 71 transmitter implantation surgeries 24 of these were transmitter replacement surgeries in previously implant- ed snakes 20 snakes had two surgeries two had three.before surgery a regional block was performed with mepivacaine carbocaine-v 20mgml pfizer-pharmacia  upjohn com-pany new york new york usa 2-6 mgkg subcutaneously divided between three inter- costal spaces 20 cm cranial to the cloaca at the implantation site wellehan et al.

591-595c wildlife disease association 2017radio transmitter implantation and movement in the wild timber rattlesnake crotalus horridusvanessa l. hale1 brian macgowan2 lorraine corriveau3 david c. huse4 andrea f. t. currylow25 and steve thompson67 1center for individualized medicine microbiome program mayo clinic 200 1st st. sw rochester minnesota 55905 usa 2department of forestry and natural resources purdue university 715 w state st. west lafayette indiana 47907 usa 3veterinary teaching hospital purdue university college of veterinary medicine 625 harrison st. west lafayette indiana 47907 usa 4department of basic medical sciences purdue university college of veterinary medicine 625 harrison st. west lafayette indiana 47907 usa 5department of biological sciences integrative and evolutionary biology university of southern california 3616 trousdale pkwy.

distance traveled for each snake did not differ before or after surgery or between weeks 1 and 2 postsurgery indicating that the transmitter implantation did not alter snake movement.key words crotalus horridus gis melox-icam nsaid radio transmitter.use of radiotelemetry devices in ecologic studies provides insight into wildlife biology and behavior but transmitter application or implantation can be associated with fitness costs including increased energy expenditure godfrey et al.

intracoelomic radio transmitter holohil systems ltd. carp ontario canada models ai-2t or si-2t implantation was performed under general anesthesia with the use of aseptic technique and under surgical proto- cols described previously reinert and cun- dall 1982 frye 1991 martin-bashore and bashore 2001 anderson et al.

we performed 71 transmitter implantation sur- geries 90 of them n1464 in may june or july.for surgery the anterior third of the snake was placed in a clear restraining tube connected to an isoflurane vaporizer isoflo abbott laboratories chicago illinois usa.

once found snake sex length and weight measured on a spring scale pesolat schindellegi switzerland were recorded and the capture location was documented with the use of a handheld gps device garmin ltd. olathe kansas usa table 1. snakes were transported to the indiana department of591table 1. average weight and snout-vent length svl of radio-tracked timber rattlesnakes crotalus horridus in southern indiana usa during 2007-11.natural resources office bloomington in- diana usa and housed in secure 76-l glass aquariums for 1-5 d before surgery.

2007. in reptiles intra- coelomic implantation of radio transmitters is associated with additional surgical risks in- cluding pain inflammation and infection rudolph et al.

radio transmitter implantation and movement in the wild timber rattlesnake crotalus horridusauthors vanessa l. hale brian macgowan lorraine corriveau david c. huse andrea f. t. currylow and steve thompsonsource journal of wildlife diseases 533591-595. published by wildlife disease association url bioone  is a nonprofit online aggregation of core research in the biological ecological and environmental sciences.

however little is known about how transmitter implantation surgery affects the mobility of some species including the timber rattlesnake crota- lus horridus.

tracking snake movement can provide insights into the effects of transmitter implantation.

because all snakes had transmitters implanted we could not determine how transmitters affect snake movement compared to snakes without trans- mitters we could only make observations on whether movement of transmitter-implanted snakes was altered perioperatively.though we cannot decisively conclude that our analgesic protocol achieved therapeutic concentrations and mitigated pain our results suggest that transmitter implantation surgery in concert with analgesics does not alter snake movement in the short term 14 d postsur- gery or long term over the season.

ahf 252 los angeles california 90089 usa 6department of veterinary clinical sciences purdue university college of veterinary medicine 625 harrison st. west lafayette indiana 47907 usa 7corresponding author email drtpurdue.eduabstract radiotelemetry transmitters have be- come critical to studies of wildlife ecology.

2006. snakes received three postsurgical injections of meloxicam metacam 5 mgml boeh- ringer ingelheim fort dodge iowa usa 0.2 mgkg and enrofloxacin baytril 22.7 mgml bayer healthcare llc shawnee mission kansas usa 5-10 mgkg intramuscularly every 24 h. both injections were adjacent to the dorsal spinous processes in the anterior half of the snake but caudal to the restraining tube.snakes were released at their original capture locations after 2-5 d of postsurgical monitoring and tracked 2-3 times weekly until they returned to their hibernacula in the fall.

2003 decreased mobility knapp and abarca 2009 diminished repro- ductive success reed et al.

2005 and deaththeuerkauf et al.

