from soft rot disease are due to their ability to scavenge starch via amya and malswas proven null.transposon insertion analysis reveals differences between metabolic path- ways necessary for growth in the intact and soft rot tomatoes.

overall there was a large number of mutations that reduced salmonella fitness in the soft rot and nearly as many mutants that benefited from the soft rot.

dots represent significant differences fdr 0.05 in the fold change of mutants grown in both tomatoes with soft rot and with no sot rot.

additionally with the exception of rfaf which was less competitive in both the soft rot and intact tomatoes mutants in the lipopolysaccharide lps genes were less compet- itive in the intact tomato than in soft rot.

these data show that s. typhimurium 14028 does not use the same essential functions in soft rot and intact tomato tissue.nucleotide synthesis is required for growth of salmonella in soft rot.

the log10 of the out ratios of tomatoes with no soft rot no sr and those with soft rot sr were then compared.

our finding that motility is disadvantageous in tomato soft rot compared to intact tomatoes is surprising but consistent with the previously described transcriptome of salmonella typhimurium in cilantro and lettuce leaf macerated by a closely related soft rot pathogen d. dadantii .

here we aimed to uncover the mechanisms that enable salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium strain atcc 14028 to benefit from the degradation of plant tissue by a soft rot plant pathogen pectobacterium carotovorum.

the hypothesis that in the soft rot the liberation of starch not utilized by p. carotovorum makes this polymer available to salmonella spp.

to identify the functions in- volved in salmonella soft rot colonization we carried out transposon insertion se- quencing coupled with the phenotypic characterization of the mutants.

while csrbc and flhd appear to be of importance in the soft rot the global two-component system encoded by bara sira which controls csrbc and flhdc under laboratory conditions does not appear to be necessary for the observed phenotype.

sense production of the population density-dependent signals by other bacteria within the soft rot and respond accordingly .

detected ahls from pectobacterium strains in vitro the sdia gene was expressed at a low level inside the tomato fruit or the soft rot and consequentially the deletion of this regulator did not significantly impact fitness within soft rots .

the deletion of the salmonella second quorum sensing qs system mediated by the autoinducer 2 ai-2 had no effect on growth in tomatoes with or without pectobacterium carotovorum providing further evidence that these two qs-mediated signal exchanges are not a driving force of this interaction .nutrient exchange or environmental change due to soft rot likely explains the growth benefit gained by salmonella species.

in d. dadantii soft rot lesions on cilantro and lettuce have shown that salmonella spp.

