MC- corals in contactless interaction with mimic macroalgae MC coral in contact interaction with mimic macroalgae AC- corals in contactless interaction with macroalgae AC corals in contact interaction with macroalgae.

CTRL corals alone for controls MC- corals in contactless interaction with mimic macroalgae MC corals in contact interaction with mimic macroalgae AC- corals in contactless interaction with macroalgae AC corals in contact interaction with macroalgae.

a all samples and definition of the three main metabolic groups b CTRL macroalgae alone for controlc AC- macroalgae in contactless interaction with corals d AC macroalgae in contact interaction with corals e AC  S- macroalgae in contact interaction with corals treated for the removal of surface metabolites.

Reference macroalgae without interaction with corals exhibited a higher mean bioactivity of 3.7 - 0.9 mean-SE than those interacting with corals 2.4 - 0.4 but this difference was not supported by statistics Mann-Whitney test p 0.635.DiscussionThe overall decline of coral reefs in tropical seas facing global change and their replacement by macroalgae in many reefs have been a source of motivation to study biotic interactions between corals and macroalgae see refs and for a general review on coral-macroalgal competition.

CTRL macroalgae alone for control AC- macroalgae in contactless interaction with corals AC macroalgae in contact interaction with corals at different sampling dates day 0 at experimental start day 5 and day 10.

At day 4 corals in contactless interaction with mimic macroalgae and contact interaction with macroalgae differed from the control with few active polyps Kruskal-Wallis K  23.2 p 0.001 SDCF post hoc test.

At this date corals in contactless interaction with macroalgae showed the highest activity while coral in contact interaction with macroalgae showed the lowest one with intermediate values for coral controls.Associated microbial communities.

Physical effects have been confirmed with the use of mimic plastic macroalgae that exhibited the same adverse effects as natural macroalgae.

b Astroides calycularis metabolomic fingerprints of coral sampled in situ in contact interaction with the macroalgae Asparagopsistaxiformis and references no interaction with macroalgae methanolic extracts analyzed in -ESI scores plot.

13 1192-1204 doi 10.1111j.1462-2920.2010.02419.x 2011.Lachnit T. Blumel M. Imhoff J. F.  Wahl M. Specific epibacterial communities on macroalgae phylogeny matters more than habitat.

