however given the very large burden of illness imposed by mental disor- ders and the evidence supporting the importance of nutrition to mental and brain health it will be critical to continue to liaise with key allies in public health to advocate for policy change to improve the food environ- ment at the population level  and to develop knowledge and capacity within clinical settings to pro- mote the benefits of dietary improvement for those with mental illnesses.conflicts of interestnothing to declare.author contributionsfnj conceived and wrote this manuscript.acknowledgementsfundingfnj has received grantresearch support from the brain and behav- iour research institute the national health and medical research council nhmrc app1121510 1021347 1021345 1026265australian rotary health the geelong medical research foundation the ian potter foundation eli lilly the meat and livestock board d.mhn.0610 woolworths limited and the university of melbourne and has received speakers honoraria from sanofi-synthelabo janssen cilag servier pfizer health ed network nutrition angelini farmaceutica eli lilly and metagenics.

moreover given the role of pre- natal and early life nutrition in influencing physical and mental health outcomes in children public health strategies for improving nutrition during pregnancy should also be developed implemented and evaluat- ed .another key imperative is to home in on the biological pathways that mediate the diet-mental health link.

more human data are urgently needed to understand the complex ways in which dietary intakes influence gut microbiota com- position and activity and to explicate the relationships between gut mi- crobiota and health and a range of environmental exposures health behaviours medical conditions blood biomarkers and mental health.another imperative is to move beyond a focus on common mental disorders to investigate diet as well as diet-related factors including food allergy and gut health as modifiable risk factors in the serious spectrum of mental illnesses.

2013. maes m. kubera m. leunis j.c. berk m. 2012.

study  the study failed to find evidence of publication bias.concordant with these meta-analyses arising from adult data thereare now many cross-sectional and prospective observational studies reporting inverse associations between adherence to healthy dietary patterns and reduced risk for or likelihood of mental health distur- bances in children and adolescents while unhealthy dietary habits are positively associated with mental health problems.

given that there is also error associated with the measurement of mental health the relationships between diet and health outcomes may be obscured and attenuated by measurement error.

however newer methods such as the use of a dii  are less influenced by cultural contexts and are starting to be more widely applied.another methodological issue that can obscure and complicate the assessment of the diet-mental health relationship relates to the covari- ance between health behaviours such as diet physical activity and smoking.

.akkasheh g. kashani-poor z. tajabadi-ebrahimi m. jafari p. akbari h. taghizadeh m. et al.

berk m. de silva-sanigorski a.m. moodie m. leslie e.r.

fava m. berk m. et al.

reviewnutritional psychiatry where to nextfelice n. jacka food  mood centre impact strategic research centre deakin university geelong 3220 australia department of psychiatry the university of melbourne parkville 3052 australiacentre for adolescent health murdoch children's research institute melbourne australia black dog institute sydney australiainternational society for nutritional psychiatry research isnpra r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 13 january 2017received in revised form 15 february 2017accepted 20 february 2017available online 21 february 2017keywords diet nutrition depression psychosismental disorder neurodevelopment neurodegenerative nutraceutical prevention treatmentcontentsa b s t r a c t the nascent field of 'nutritional psychiatry' offers much promise for addressing the large disease burden associ- ated with mental disorders.

finally new studies focused on understanding the biological pathways that mediate the observed rela- tionships between diet nutrition and mental health are pointing to the immune system oxidative biology brain plasticity and the microbiome-gut-brain axis as key targets for nutritional interventions.

we coined the term 'nutritional psychia- try' in order to promote a new field of research focused on developing a comprehensive cohesive and scientifically rigorous evidence base to support a shift in thinking around the role of diet and nutrition in men- tal health .

these relationships are also in common with the adult data usually observed to be inde- pendent of other key health behaviours including physical activity and smoking but are also independent of key environmental factors such as socioeconomic circumstances family conflict poor family func- tioning and social support and adolescent dieting behaviours  .

what is also notable is that the relationship between both healthy and un- healthy diets and mental health are consistently independent of each other indicating that each i.e.

