fems microbiology letters 364 2017 fnx046 doi 10.1093femslefnx046advance access publication date 23 february 2017research letterr e s e a rch l e t t e r - food microbiologyeffect of butyrate and lactobacillus gg on a butyrate receptor and transporter during campylobacter jejuni exposuregail a. m. cresci paul c. mayorand stuart a. thompson1pediatric research center department of gastroenterology pediatrics institute and department of pathobiology lerner research institute cleveland clinic oh 44195 usa 2department of gynecologic oncology roswell park cancer institute buffalo ny 14263 usa and 3department of medicine division of infectious diseases augusta university augusta ga 30912 usacorresponding author department of gastroenterology pediatric institute pediatric research center cleveland clinic 9500 euclid avenue m17 cleveland oh 44195. tel 216-445-8317 fax 216 444-9415 e-mail one sentence summary this study shows that butyrate and lactobacillus gg protected against losses of a butyrate receptor and transporter in caco-2 cells during campylobacter jejuni exposure.editor ce'lia ferreiraabstractcampylobacter jejuni frequently infects humans causing many gastrointestinal symptoms fever fatigue and several long-term debilitating diseases.

the localization of c. jejuni on the caco-2 cell surface was maintained with lgg pretreatment which coincided with re- duced c. jejuni invasion.effects of butyrate on hcar2 and slc5a8 expression during campylobacter jejuni adhesion and invasionsteady-state mrna levels of hcar2 or slc5a8 during adhesion or invasion were not altered by pretreatment of caco-2 mono- layers with butyrate prior to infection with c. jejuni fig.

since camp has profound effects on water and electrolyte absorption in the intestinal tract decreased presence of this receptor caused by pathogenic bacteria could potentially contribute to the exces- sive water and electrolyte losses that occur following infection field .this study investigated the hypothesis that pretreatment of caco-2 cells with a probiotic lactobacillus gg andor butyrate could diminish c. jejuni invasion and maintain expression of a butyrate transporter and receptor.materials and methodsmaterialssodium butyrate came from sigma-aldrich st. louis mo.

a previous study showed that butyrate not only protects against c. jejuni invasion and translocation into caco-2 cells but also preserves the integrity of the caco-2 monolayer van deun et al.

these results suggest that the first stages of c. jejuni infection of caco-2 cells may be minimized by lgg and butyrate pretreatment.keywords butyrate lactobacillus gg campylobacter jejuni caco-2backgroundcampylobacter jejuni a gram-negative bacterium is zoonotic pathogenic in humans but a common commensal in birds swine and cattle.

cells were pretreated with - lgg 5 x 107 cfu or - sodium butyrate 5 mm for 1 or 48 hfigure 1. butyrate and lgg effects on c. jejuni adherence and invasion of caco-2 monolayers.

in addition to serving as a main fuel source for the colonic ep- ithelial cells butyrate enhances electrolyte and water absorp- tion thangaraju et al.

a gai-protein-coupled niacin receptor niacr1 hcar2 or gpr109a expressed in intestinal epithelial cells also recognizes butyrate thangaraju et al.

c. during adhesion c. jejuni im- munoreactive staining was positive on the caco-2 cell surface however this staining intensity was lost during c. jejuni inva- sion.

preservation of these butyrate-linked mediators during c. jejuni infection could potentially lessen the diarrheal symptoms of wa- ter and electrolyte losses caused by campylobacteriosis.in conclusion these findings illustrate protective effects of butyrate and lgg during c. jejuni infection.

protection against c. jejuni adhesion by butyrate and invasion by lgg was associated with the presence of hcar2 and slc5a8 a butyrate receptor and transporter respectively.trillions of predominantly anaerobic bacteria reside within the intestine with 90 of species coming from the figure 3. effects of lgg on culture media ph and protein expression of hcar2 and slc5a8.

.we found that butyrate's defense against c. jejuni was as- sociated with the localization of a butyrate transporter and re- ceptor.

liquid cultures of c. jejuni were grown in brucella or mueller-hinton mh broth and cultured in microaerobic en- vironments according to pajaniappan et al.

we hypothesized that adherence andor invasion of c. jejuni and alterations in hcar2 and slc5a8 expression would be minimized with butyrate or lactobacillus gg lgg pretreatment of caco-2 cells.

caco-2 monolayers were pretreated with - sodium butyrate 5 mm for 48 h a or - lgg 5x107 cfu for 1 h b prior to being inoculated with c. jejuni at an moi of 40. after 3 h the cells were washed and bacteria adhered were enumerated.

