supplementa- tion of vitamin b6 also attenuated infec-tion and promoted recovery from the gut inflammation.the mechanism through which vitamin b6 affects the progression of s. typhimu- rium infection is still unclear.

for example vitamin b12 enhances expansion of bacteroidesmurium infection regiiib enhanced mucosal inflammation by elevating thefigure 1. during s. typhimurium infection regiiib kills bacteroidetesthis change in the microbiota composition leads to decreased levels of vitamin b6 delaying remission of disease.130 cell host  microbe 21 february 8 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc.cell host  microbepreviewsthetaiotaomicron .

for example s. typhimurium is an enteric pathogen that triggers inflammation which reprograms the metabolic and immunological environment of the gut thus facilitating s. typhimurium expan- sion aeur.the intestinal mucosa secretes a rangeof antimicrobial peptides into the gut lumen including the lectin regiiib which has bactericidal activity against certain types of bacteria .

however vitamin b12 is also necessary for the utilization by enteropathogens of ethanolamine which enhances s. typhi- murium growth and also moonlights as a signal to enhance its virulence expression  .

vitamin a has protective effects against listeria monocytogenes infection  and vitamin d3 alters the mucosal defense thus changing host susceptibility to citrobacter rodentium  .the new work from il- lustrates the intricate connection among the innate immune system microbiota composition and the intestinal metabo- lome and reveals how these multi-facto- rial relationships change the outcome of an enteric infection.

the observation that supplementa- tion of bacteroides or vitamin b6 to mice infected with s. typhimurium accelerated remission opens novel avenues to com- bat infectious diseases by reprograming the microbiota to produce specific me- tabolites.

dallas tx 75390-9048 usacorrespondence the gut microbiota plays a chief role in vitamin production.

in this issue of cell host  microbe show that regiiib impacts microbiota composition decreasing vitamin b6 production and promoting sustained colonization by salmonella.the gut microbiota is largely responsible for the synthesis of vitamins and other metabolites that are key to mammalian health.

in this issue of cell host  microbe showed that regiiib plays an important role in the remission stages of s. typhimurium infection.

found that regiiib was not involved in enteropathy during the acute stage of infection but rather promoted sustained gut colonization by s. typhimu- rium delaying remission of the gut pathol- ogy.

regiiib's effect on s. typhimurium gut colonization was pleiotropic and involved enhanced inflammation as well as changes to the microbiota compositionand the gut metabolome.

during s. typhi-levels of the tnfa and il-6 cytokines the kc and mpi2 chemokines and lipoca- lin-2 all of which are known to be conducive to the pathogen's gut coloni- zation.

regiiib directly killed bacteroides but was not bactericidal to s. typhimurium.

indeed supplementation of bacteroides during a s. typhimurium infection augmented pathogen clearance.

these changes in the microbiota contributed to modifica- tions of the metabolome with metabolites indicative of vitamin b6 metabolism being the most impacted.

