e-mail bracstu3konkuk.ac.krfax 82 2 3436 4128 tel 82 2 450 4121bdepartment of food  nutrition college of human ecology hanyang university 222 wangsimni-ro seongdong-gu seoul 04763 korea these authors contributed equally to this work.including its anti-tumorigenic anti-stress immunomodula- tory hypocholesterolemic and antimicrobial properties.9 lactobacillus kefiranofaciens is the key bacterium in kefir grain formation and is thus one of the most extensively investigated microorganisms among the kefir microbiota.11 from the first report of the isolation of this bacterium from kefir grain in 198812 its anti-allergenic anti-carcinogenic anti-inflamma- tory and immunomodulatory effects have been intensively investigated worldwide.13-15 to address the mechanisms underlying the beneficial properties of kefir and more specifi- cally l. kefiranofaciens it is necessary to investigate the effects of oral consumption of l. kefiranofaciens on the intestinal microbiota.in a previous study we demonstrated improvements in intestinal microbial profiles caused by kefir consumption using metagenomic analysis.16 although the modulatory effect of kefir on the gut microbiota has been investigated the effects induced by a single strain of kefir lactic acid bacteria are unknown.

several pre- vious studies have reported that l. kefiranofaciens is themain producer of the exopolysaccharide kefiran in kefir.910 exopolysaccharides may act as bulking and smoothing agentstable 3 body weight and food intake of control mice and mice admi-nistered with lactobacillus kefiranofaciens dn1 lkfdn1increasing the water content of feces.24 in addition l. kefiranofaciens is a homofermentative bacterium that pro-parametercontrollkfdn1duces a marked excess of lactic acid which may stimulate bowel movement.1225 future studies should focus on the mechanisms driving these changes in fecal quality by using low-fiber feeds or constipation-inducing agents such as loperamide.ences in the body weight or food intake between the lkfdn1 and the control group table 3. in addition all mice were healthy and exhibited normal behavior throughout the experi- mental period.we compared the fecal qualities of the lkfdn1 and control groups after two weeks of treatment table 4. although there was no significant difference between the groups in the number of stools produced in 30 min the total fecal weight of the lkfdn1 group was higher than that of the control group p  0.05 by 43.3 g. similarly the fecal weight per stool was significantly higher in the lkfdn1 group 3.27 g increase p  0.05 as was the fecal water content 16.67 increase p  0.05.constipation significantly impacts the health-related quality of life of those who suffer from it.21 although medical therapy for constipation employs traditional laxatives and agents probiotics may be used to alleviate constipation by stimulating bowel movement bulking intestinal contents and causing acidification of colonic contents.22 kefir has been used anecdotally for the treatment of diarrhea and consti-change in mouse gut microbiota following administration of l. kefiranofaciens dn1weassessedtheeffectsoforaladministrationofl.

this genus has gained increasing attention as a commensal microbe in thehuman large intestine owing to its ability to degrade a broad spectrum of polysaccharides.3536 in addition prevotella is responsible for the biosynthesis of vitamin b1 in the intestine and the formation of the gut barrier and a significantly reduced prevotella population in the gut has been found to be associated with autism.3536 recent studies found an increased population of intestinal prevotella in both animals and humans fed a polysaccharide-rich diet.83738 oral administration of wheat arabinoxylan increased the number of gut prevotella in diet- induced obese mice.39 in addition children in rural africa and south america consuming traditional plant-based meals har- bored an increased ratio of the phylum bacteroidetes especially prevotella which is associated with fiber utilization.3840as discussed above l. kefiranofaciens is a large producer of exopolysaccharides.910 in a previous study we demonstrated that l. kefiranofaciens dn1 produces capsular and secretory exopolysaccharides that exhibit antimicrobial activity.41 this may explain the increased population of prevotella in the lkfdn1 group.4243conclusionsadministration of the novel probiotic strain l. kefiranofaciens dn1 isolated from kefir successfully altered the gut micro- biota by increasing the numbers of total bacteria firmicutes bacteroidetes lactobacillus and prevotella and decreasing the numbers of proteobacteria and enterobacteriaceae and the pro- portion of genus clostridium.

fecal water content was calculated after drying the fecal samples for 24 h in an 80 degc dry oven according to the equation fecal weight before drying - fecal weight after dryingfeces weight before drying x 100.dna extraction from fecal samplesgenomic dna was extracted from 50 mg of the fecal sample using the nuclisens easymag system biomerieux according to the manufacturer's instructions.16 briefly 1.4 ml of lysis buffer was added to each fecal sample and thoroughly mixed by vortexing and pipetting until the feces had disintegrated.

we used real-time pcr as a powerful alternative method for this investigation focusing specifically on changes in the major bacterial phyla opportunistic pathogens and beneficial microbes.16 in addition the effects of l. kefiranofaciens admin-istration on fecal quality were also investigated to provide pre- liminary information for the development of a constipation- alleviating probiotic agent based on kefir lactic acid bacteria.materials and methodsisolation of l. kefiranofaciens from kefirkefir drink manufactured with natural kefir grains was pur- chased from sensorgen inc. seoul korea.

kefiranofaciens dn1 was considered safe in vivo.change in mouse fecal quality following administration of l. kefiranofaciens dn1following administration with either l. kefiranofaciens dn1 lkfdn1 or saline control there were no significant differ-table 2 survival of 22 lactobacillus kefiranofaciens strains isolated from kefir under gastric and intestinal conditionstable 4 comparison of fecal parameters in control mice and mice administered lactobacillus kefiranofaciens dn1 lkfdn1.

this genus con- sists of opportunistic pathogens such as clostridium difficile and clostridium perfringens.32 a reduced population of clostridium bacteria may be associated with the immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory effects of kefir and l. kefiranofaciens.23 in addition an increase in clostridium in the gut is related to the development of constipation.33 therefore the reduction in gut clostridium may have been involved in the improvement of fecal quality in this study.

fresh fecal samples were collected in a sterile plastic box after natural defecation for 30 minintestinal environment a-bmeans within a row with different superscripts differ according to student's t-test p  0.05.a fecal water content   feces weight before drying - feces weight after dryingfeces weight before drying x 100.a  growth final bacterial count exceeded initial  50 survival 50 survival - no survival.pation for centuries.23 however limited information is avail- able on the mechanisms and key players in its constipation- alleviating effects.in this study administration of l. kefiranofaciens dn1 for two weeks altered the fecal quality in mice.

the lkfdn1 group exhibited higher total fecal weight and fecal weight per stool sample than the control group  p  0.05. interestingly the fecal water content was significantly higher in the fecal samples of the lkfdn1 group than in those of the control group  p  0.05. the numbers of total bacteria firmicutes bacteroidetes lactobacillus and prevotella were significantly higher in the lkfdn1 group than in the control group  p  0.05. in contrast the number of opportunistic pathogens including proteobacteria and enterobacteriaceae and the percentage of genus clostridium among the total bacteria were significantly reduced in the lkfdn1 group  p  0.05. our data suggest that regularl.

2.there has been increasing interest in the use of probiotics to improve the gut microbiota because of the discovery of a close relationship between mechanisms underlying several metabolic diseases and changes in microbial patterns in the host intes- tine.26 in a previous study we demonstrated that administration of kefir for three weeks to mice fed a normal diet resulted in an altered composition of the gut microbiota.16 specifically kefir administration yielded increases in lactobacilluslactococcus and yeast as well as decreases in the proportions of proteobacteria and enterobacteriaceae.

differences were considered significant at p  0.05. for calculation of the firmicutesbacteroidetes fb ratio the gene copy number for firmicutes was divided by that of bacteroidetes for each mouse.16 for cal- culation of the percentage of clostridium bacteria counts of the bacteria belonging to the genus clostridium were divided by the counts of total bacteria.results and discussionacid and bile tolerances of l. kefiranofaciens from kefirwe isolated a total of 22 l. kefiranofaciens strains from kefir and these strains were subjected to acid and bile tolerance assays to determine their survivability in gastric and intestinal environ- ments table 2. based on the acid tolerance assay the only strains likely to survive a gastric environment were strain dn1 2 5 6 7 8 and k15041.

excess lps permeates the mucosal barrier of the intestine and is absorbed into blood vessels inducing low-grade inflammation in various tissues and organs that can lead to metabolic syn- dromes such as diabetes and obesity.31 the results of our present study demonstrate that l. kefiranofaciens dn1 adminis- tration can improve intestinal health by inhibiting the prolifer- ation of harmful enterobacteriaceae.in addition kefir and l. kefiranofaciens administration both decreased the proportion of clostridium bacteria.

the strain with the highest acid and bile toler- ance l. kefiranofaciens dn1 was selected and subjected to further experiments.virulence attributes of l. kefiranofaciens dn1using methods described by murphy and kavanagh18 the viru- lence attributes of l. kefiranofaciens dn1 were investigated by assessing hemolytic activity on blood agar to address the possibility of hemolysis in septic patients gelatinase activity screening proteinase activity to investigate the poten- tial for degradation of antibodies and penetration into adja- cent organs and growth inhibition at 42 degc survivability in the febrile immune response.

considering these assays together l. kefiranofaciens dn1 was regarded as the best candidate for use in the animal experiment.virulence attributes of l. kefiranofaciens dn1to demonstrate the safety of l. kefiranofaciens dn1 its hemo- lytic activity on blood agar gelatinase activity and growth inhi- bition at 42 degc were tested.

four-week-old balbc mice were divided into two groups n  8 each and administered 0.2 ml of saline control group or saline containing 2 x 108 cfu l. kefiranofaciens dn1 lkfdn1 group for two weeks.at the end of the experiment their fecal samples were collected and the fecal quality and microbiota were assessed.

