to the best of the author's knowledge the healthy microbiota in ax- illary skin has not previously been visualized by the use of clsm and may therefore be used in other microbiome studies for comparison.considering the fact that the intertriginous regions of the human skin and in particular the axilla offers highly favourable conditions for bacteria to proliferate 36 our observation of a reduced presence of bacterial aggrega- tes in axillary hs skin appears even more interesting.

the nodules may expand progressively to abscesses and subsequently rupture causing suppuration and malodorous discharge 1. the prevalence of hs has been estimated as 1-4 in european populations 2-4 while a mean incidence of 6 per 100000 person per year has been found in an american study 5. although the pathogenesis of hs is unknown the role of the cutaneous commensal bacterial community microbiota and its potential relationship to the innate immune system in hs appears to be of increasing interest 6-9. several studies have hypothesized that a synergistic interaction between the commensal microbiota and aberrant innate immune responses could be a pivotal factor in the pathogenesisof hs 10-12. however the structure of the bacterial population as well as the diversity at strain level is po- orly investigated in patients with hs 13-17. previous studies have furthermore been restricted to lesional skin without inclusion of healthy control groups and micro- biological investigations of clinically normal hs skin of the intertriginous regions are limited.the clinical course of hs is compatible with a biofilm- driven disease.

the homogeneity observed in the 2 groups is statistically significant and it is therefore suggested that the results may be extrapolated to hs populations and healthy individuals on a larger scale.pna-fish and clsm are often used as the gold standard when spatial insights on the distribution of bac- terial aggregates are required 27 28 30-32. although pna-fish and clsm does not depict the extracellular matrix of the bacterial aggregates the applicability of the technique has been demonstrated in various skin diseases 25 31 33-35. previous studies have suggested a pos- sible pathogenic role for biofilm in the development of hs 25 26. a histological retrospective study of biopsies from lesional skin in 27 patients with hs was performed using clsm and fish 25. biofilm formations were seen in one-fifth 20 of the samples and were primarily situated in hair follicles and sinus tracts.

we have chosen a minimum of one month after the last antibiotic treatment as a cut- off which is in agreement with a previously published guideline on optimized sampling methods in hs 7. in addition we did not visualize the extracellular matrix of the bacterial aggregates.we detected fewer bacteria and less biofilm indicatinga relative lack of skin microbiota in clinically unaffected axillary hs skin.

only 3 samples were found positive for small bacterial aggregates.quantification of bacterial aggregates in skin biopsies shown in a dot plot with median of 0 zero and of 2 for the hs patients and controls respectively.

this also appears to be in agreement with the bacterial findings from lesional hs skin often revealing a wide spectrum of commensal bacteria biofilm producing such as cns bacteria 8. this study also verified the presence of cns in the axilla of healthy controls 35 table ii.apart from the findings in the hs group our study alsoimportantly demonstrated the normal spatial distribution as well as quantification of bacterial aggregates in healthy212h.

208investigative reportnormal skin microbiota is altered in pre-clinical hidradenitis suppurativahans christian ring1 lene bay2 klaus kallenbach3 iben m. miller1 errol prens4 ditte m. saunte1 thomas bjarnsholt25 and gregor b. e. jemec1departments of 1dermatology and 3pathology university hospital zealand faculty of health and medical sciences university of copenhagen roskilde 2department of immunology and microbiology costerton biofilm centre university of copenhagen copenhagen denmark 4department of dermatology erasmus university medical center rotterdam the netherlands and 5department for clinical microbiology section 9301 copenhagen university copenhagen denmarkhidradenitis suppurativa hs is a chronic inflamma- tory skin disease defined by recurrent nodules tunnels sinus tracts and scarring involving the intertriginous regions.

we did not obtain specific information on oral contraceptives among patients with hs or healthy controls.biopsies and he stainingprior to injection of anaesthetics the skin was cleansed with etha- nol swabs fastcarer 70 isopropyl alcohol zhejian china to reduce the number of surface microorganisms.axillary skin was anesthetized using a 2 solution of lidocaine and adrenaline no preservatives.

however taking our recent findings into account the presence of biofilm found in lesional hs skin may thus primarily reflect se- condary colonization of biofilm-producing bacteria most likely due to rupture of the innate skin barrier.

remarkably alterations in the composition of the skin microbiota dysbiosis has been shown in the context of other skin inflammatory disorders such as acne vulgaris psoriasis and atopic dermatitis 37. thus it may be spe- culated whether an altered shift in the resident microbiota may be implicated in the pathogenesis of hs.although bacteria are often referred to as catalysers of inflammation recent studies have demonstrated that symbiotic factors produced by the cutaneous and intesti- nal commensal microbiota beneficially modulate the host immune systems i.e.

furthermore general investigations of the complex cross-talk between the resident microbiota and epithelial cytokines in the skin are needed to clarify the mechanisms that modulate skin immune homeostasis and subsequent inflammation.acknowledgementsthe authors would like to thank the lundbeck foundation for financial support of professor thomas bjarnsholt.the authors declare no conflicts of interest.referencesjemec gb.

thus the pathobiology of hs may elicit formations of bacterial aggregates biofilms in particular in anoxic cavities such as sinus tracts ordilated hair follicles.if biofilm plays a role in the aetiology of hs we hypothesized that clinically unaffected hs skin also would have an increased presence of bacteria and biofilm compared with that of healthy controls.

with additional cns pna- fish staining of universal pna-fish-positive samples n  25 positive the overall investigation yielded in total investigations of 217 slides.overall pna-fish and clsm examinations of pre- clinical hs skin showed an absence of bacterial aggre- gates at the stratum corneum sc and in hair follicles 5 um or ssc 10 cells 0888positive aggregate sizes5-10 um or ssc 10 142510-50 um 285050 um 3017distribution of aggregates in positive samplesstratum corneum036hf infundibulum3346hf isthmus suprabulbar bulb6618morphology and species in positive samplescocci10092rods08cns-positive035histopathologylow-grade inflammation5016bacterial findings and histopathology by the use of confocal laser scanning microscopypeptide nucleic acid fluorescent in situ hybridization and light microscope hematoxylin eosin respectively.

in b and c magnification of the area clsm images visualize the morphology of the bacterial aggregates white arrows.axillary skin of patients with hs compared with healthy controls fig.

pna-fish probes target specific bacterial ribosomal rna sequences in the bacterial cells 25 27. pna diffuses through the bacte- rial cell wall due to its uncharged backbone.

