although meat undoubtedly possesses all these benefits we need to cautiously consider information provided in recent studies which show that high consumption of red meat is associated with atherosclerosis cancer diabetes and the pro- gression of kidney failure .the quest for red meat in ckd patients the other side of the coinbecause high protein intake can accelerate the progression of ckd  the current recommendation for daily dietary protein intake is 0.6 to 0.8 gkg for nondialysis ckd patients conserva- tive treatment and 1.2 gkg for those on dialysis .

additionally we report on a pilot study that focused on the effect of a low-protein diet on tmao plasma levels in nondialysis ckd patients.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionpatients with chronic kidney disease ckd have a high risk for cardiovascular diseases cvd due to accelerated arterio- and atherosclerosis .

over time this process will lead to chronic glomerular injury fibrosis mesangial cell proliferation and consequently progressive ckd .classic studies support the premise that a high-protein diet increases urinary protein excretion and it is well known that proteinuria is a predictor of kidney disease progression in pa- tients with preexisting ckd .

the authors observed that red meat intake was associated with increased ckd risk whereas other protein sources such as nuts legumes and low-fat dairy products were associated with a lower risk for ckd .

felids such as cats and tigers are at high risk for ckd .cvd is the leading cause of death in patients with ckd thus it is important that high consumption of red and processed meat also relates to a significantly increased risk for heart disease .

elevated dietary acid load in patients with ckd is independently associated with an increased risk for ckd  and acid load reduction in the diet reduces the risk for kidney disease progression .

however a prescription of 1.2 g proteinkg daily patients on dialysis is able to increase the phosphate levels.proinflammatory and prooxidative effects of red meatoxidative stress and chronic inflammation are common fea- tures in ckd and are considered major mediators of disease progression and cv mortality in ckd .

it has been suggested that uremic toxins are a potential missing link between ckd and cvd because traditional cv risk factors are insufficient to explain the high incidence of cvd in patients with ckd .

finally kimura et al identified 16 metabolites including tmao that predicted the risk for ckd progression .based on recent literature colongut microbiota has become the focus of new therapies targeting the site of toxin production as a new prospect for early intervention in ckd.

accordingly it was proposed that an lpd could be a good strategy to reduce uremic toxins produced by the fermentation of amino acids or other substrates by gut microbiota .novel data link a low-protein diet to lower tmaoin a prospective pilot study we evaluated the effects of lpd prescription 0.6 g proteinkg daily for 6 mo on tmao plasma concentrations in nine seven females patients with ckd on conservative treatment ckd stage 3-4 age 53 13 y body mass index bmi 27.6 7 kgm2 egfr 37 13 mlmin1.73 m2.

limiting the intake of red meat in patients with chronic kidney disease ckd thus may be a good strategy to reduce cv risk and may slow the progression of kidney disease.

in the present review we discuss the role of red meat in the diet of patients with ckd.

several cardiovascular cv risk factors for ckd have been established in the literature  such as hyper- tension dyslipidemia diabetes oxidative stress and inflamma- tion.

recently the accumulation of uremic toxins caused by the imbalance in the composition of gut microbiota has been studied as another potential cv risk factor for patients with ckd .

in the present review we discuss the two sides of red meat consumption by patients with ckd as illustrated in .

