the indigenous gut microbial community also has the ability to restrain the growth of exogenous microbes through a process called colo-nization resistance .most of the bacteria in the gut microbial community of the adult honey bee a. mellifera belong to phyla firmicutes acti- nobacteria and proteobacteria alphaproteobacteria betapro- teobacteria gammaproteobacteria which comprise more than 95 of the detected 16s rrna sequences and are considered the core gut bacteria .1319-562xc 2017 the authors.

in addition to the core bacteria highly diverse transient bacteria are also found in honey bees and within the hive environment which may be transmitted by envi- ronmental sources .

similarly a phy- logenetic tree was constructed for 64 partial 16s rrna gene sequences from the gut bacteria from the honey bees in the al- baha region and 53 selected related sequences of honey bee gut bacteria isolated in other countries that were obtained from ncbi .

the possible reason for non-detection of bifidobac- terium may be its leower abundance   as it comprised only 1.6-3.9 of the bacteria in adult a. mellifera and 0.1-0.4 in a. cerana .lactobacillus firm-4 and firm-5 are considered to be core gut bacteria of a. mellifera and they have been consistently detected irrespective of geography environment and subspecies .

original articleinvestigation of gut microbial communities associated with indigenous honey bee apis mellifera jemenitica from two different eco-regions of saudi arabiakhalid ali khan  mohammad javed ansari  ahmad al-ghamdi  adgaba nuru  steve harakeh javaid iqbal a bee research chair department of plant protection college of food and agricultural sciences king saud university riyadh saudi arabiab special infectious agents unit king fahd medical research center king abdulaziz university saudi arabiac yousef abdullatif jameel chair of prophetic medicine application king abdulaziz university hospital kauh faculty of medicine kau ksaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 22 december 2016revised 24 january 2017accepted 24 january 2017available online 1 february 2017keywords bacteria alimentary tract honey beesapis mellifera jemeniticaa b s t r a c t the microbial communities associated with the alimentary tract of honey bees are very important as they help with food digestion provide essential nutrients protect the host from pathogens detoxify harmful molecules and increase host immunity.

bacteria in the phylum proteobacteria were the most dominant 17 species followed by firmicutes 13 species and actinobacteria 4 species.

some of the identified bacteria citrobacter sp.

providencia vermicola exiguobacterium acetylicum and planomicrobium okeanokoites were reported for the first time in the genus apis while others identified bacteria belonged to the genera proteus enterobacter bacillus morganella lactobacillus and fructobacillus.

one approach to address these challenges is to increase bee health by studying the interactions between gut bacteria and the host .

gut bacteria play significant roles in health and vitality  contribute enormously to host immunity  ameliorate nutrient- deficient diets degrade recalcitrant food ingredients and protect host from parasites and pathogens .

gut bacteria play sig- nificant roles in host survival and fitness and can be transmitted either vertically or horizontally .beekeeping is an enduring practice in the rural communities of the kingdom of saudi arabia and it contributes significantly to the incomes of the rural residents.

it is hypothesized that the distinct gut bacteria of native honey bees may be the reason for their adaptation to the harsh environment of saudi arabia.

although the literature on the gut bacteria of honey bees is continuously increas- ing there is no detailed information about the bacterial communi- ties associated with the alimentary tract of the native honey bees in saudi arabia.

therefore the aim of this study was to explore and characterize the bacteria colonizing the alimentary tract of the native honey bees using culture-dependent methods and com- pare the results to the gut microbiota from other honey bees.materials and methodssample collectionincoming workers of a. m. jemenitica were collected with sterile forceps from two different geographic regions riyadh and al-baha in march-april 2015-2016. five apiaries each from al-baha al-makhwa and biljurashi in al-baha and five from the riyadh region were selected .

all gaps and missing data were removed from the dataset by the complete deletion option.comparing the gut bacteria from riyadh and al-bahagut bacterial isolates from the riyadh and al-baha regions were compared based on the percentages of unique and shared species.

