samples were analyzed using an established method for assessing vitamin d3 25-oh vitamin d3 2425-oh2 vitamin d3 4b25-oh2 vitamin d3 and 1a25-oh2 vitamin d3supplemental table s4.for treatment in the bbbnvu module the combined intestinalliver-conditioned media was diluted 13 inblank egm-2 vascular compartment media.functional coupling of the static liver with skeletal muscle for terfenadine toxicity testing.

examples such as these highlight the need to continue research into methods that reduce the dependence on laboratory animals for toxicity testing of environmental chemicals determine efficacy and toxicity in drug development serve as a mimic of human diseases and provide patient-specific guidance in the emerging field of precision medicine.recent advances in bioengineered materials microfluidic technology and the availability of human primary immortalized and induced pluripotent stem cell ipsc-derived cells are enabling development of human micro- physiological systems mps sometimes called organs-on-a-chip or human-on-a-chip that use multiple organ-specific human cells to recapitulate many functional and structural properties of a human organ.

however approximately 6 of the 25-oh vitamin d3 infused into the vascular side of the bbbnvu was found in the neuronal efflux media after 24 h. this would be consistent with the penetration of the 25-oh vitamin d3 through the bbbnvu.vitamin d3 is a fat soluble vitamin with a clogp of 7.98 and in the body it is transported from the intes- tine in chylomicrons and systemically by vitamin d binding protein dbp.

finally an oral administration model of vitamin d3 was chosen to evaluate the liver and kidney metabolic conversion to 1a 25 oh2 vitamin d3 and to evaluate transport of vitamin d3 and its metabolites across the bbb.resultsthese results are from the collaborative effort of six universities to evaluate the transport and metabolism of three test agents in four independently developed and functionally coupled multicellular mps organ models as described in 1. a second experiment evaluated terfenadine toxicity in a human liver model functionally coupled to a muscle model.

in order to further refine the ptk module for the quantitation of the metabolism of vitamin d and other highly adsorptive compounds fbs and purified human vitamin d binding protein dbp were evaluated as vitamin d delivery vehicles.

in the liver experiments the use of dbp at a stoichiometric ratio of 31 dbp vitamin d3 improved recovery of vitamin d3 from 20 to 57 at 24 h and to 100 at 48 h. in addi- tion the formation and recovery of the 25-oh vitamin d3 metabolite from the system was improved 2-3 fold supplemental table s4.summary of results.

finally vitamin d3 added to intestinal apical media in micelles was transported without metab- olism across the jejunal monolayer metabolized to 25-oh vitamin d3 by the liver model and penetrated the bbb model parameters all consistent with oral uptake of vitamin d3.

based on the vitamin d3 treatment passing organ to organ however we did confirm liver metabolism bbb penetration and oral uptake.after realizing the extensive vitamin d3 loss to some of the mps materials a second series of experiments was carried out including vitamin d binding protein dbp as a carrier in the liver and kidney models.

moreover the ability of lab animal target organ toxicity to predict dose-limiting toxicity in the corresponding human organ varies widely from a low of 30 for human cutaneous toxicity to 50-60 for human hepatotoxicity to a high of 90 for hematological drug toxicity.

summarizes the in vivo uptake and metabolism of vitamin d3 and the transport and clearance of the vitamin d3 metabolites see details in supplemental table s4.

the liver model metabolized vitamin d3 to the 25-oh vitamin d3 metabolite consistent with in vivo findings although the kinetic rate was only 2.7 of in vivo rates.

in the initial four-organ functional study 80 of vitamin d3 perfused into the liver and 90 of the 25-oh vitamin d3 perfused into the kidney were unrecoverable.

our initial experiments with vitamin d3 demonstrated that the jejunal enteroids did not metabolize the vitamin d3 during uptake via intestinal luminal micelles which is the physiologically relevant result.

however the metabolic conversion of vitamin d3 by the liver did not produce enough vitamin d3 metabolite to demonstrate the kidney hydroxylation step within the limits of the mass spectrometry quantitationt2 supplemental s4.

in the four-organ vitamin d3 experiments we found that including a stoichiometric amount of dbp allowed the hydrophobic vitamin d3 to be transported and metabolized in the sql-sal and ptk models.

