department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.martinez a. department of health government of catalonia barcelona spain.martinez c. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.martinez-huelamo m. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy xarta insa school of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain ciber cb0603 physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn madrid spain.massot-cladera m. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.mercader-marti m. miguel torres vilafranca del penedes barcelona spain.miranda i. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy catalonian reference network on food technology xarta nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub university of barcelona food and nutrition torribera campus santa coloma de gramenet spain.miro l. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences nutrition and food safety research institute university of barcelona ub barcelona spain.montes r. university of santiago de compostela nutritional research and analysis institute santiago de compostela spain institute of health carlos iii ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn madrid spain.moreno-gonzalez r. department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences nutrition and food safety research institute-ub university of barcelona barcelona spain.moreto m. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences nutrition and food safety research institute university of barcelona ub barcelona spain.pereira p. instituto superior de ciencias da saude egas moniz egas moniz cooperativa de ensino superior monte da caparica portugal.perez-bosque a. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences nutrition and food safety research institute university of barcelona ub barcelona spain.perez-cano f.j. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.perez-rodriguez j.m.

section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.rios-hernandez a. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy university of barcelona barcelona spain.riu-aumatell m. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.rodriguez r. department of basic sciences faculty of medicine and health sciences international university of catalonia sant cugat del vallus barcelona spain.rossell c. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.rodriguez-lagunas m.j. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.sabrio a. enteric virus group department of microbiology university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub university of barcelona santa coloma de gramanet spain.salas i. university of barcelona faculty of pharmacy and food science department of nutrition food science and gastronomy barcelona spain.salas-salvado j. human nutrition unit university hospital of sant joan de reus department of biochemistry and biotechnology faculty of medicine and health sciences iispv rovira i virgili university reus spain ciber fisiopatologia de la obesidad y nutricion ciberobn instituto de salud carlos iii government of spain.saldana-ruiz s. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.sanchez-perez s. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet barcelona spain.sandoval v. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.sasot g. nutrition food science and gastronomy department pharmacy and food science school university of barcelona av.

section of crystallography mineralogy and mineral deposits faculty of earth sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain.de almeida l. university of barcelona faculty of pharmacy and food science department of nutrition food science and gastronomy barcelona spain institute for research on nutrition and food safety insa-ub barcelona spain.de caria s. universito degli studi di udine udine italy.de la garza a. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy university of barcelona- faculty of pharmacy and food science barcelona spain institute for research on nutrition and food safety insa-ub barcelona spain.de simon m. laboratory of the public health agency barcelona spain.dinarus m. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy-xarta-insa school of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain.dominguez a. ciber epidemiologia y salud publica ciberesp instituto de salud carlos iii madrid spain department of public health university of barcelona barcelona spain.duelo a. department of nutrition instituto clinico del deficit de dao icddao cpere i pons 1 08195 sant cugat del vallus barcelona spain.eksi h. department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences nutrition and food safety research institute-ub university of barcelona barcelona spain.estruch r. department of internal medicine hospital clinic idibaps university of barcelona bellaterra spain ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn health institute carlos iii madrid spain observatorio del cacao.farran-codina a. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.ferrucci l. clinical research branch national institute on aging baltimore md usa.fito m. cardiovascular risk and nutrition research group carin regicor study group imim hospital del mar medical research institute barcelona spain ciber fisiopatologia de la obesidad y nutricion ciberobn instituto de salud carlos iii government of spain.franch a. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.garcia-aloy m. biomarkers and nutrimetabolomic lab department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa faculty of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain ciber frailty and healthy aging ciberfes institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.garcia-guasch m.t.

institute of health carlos iii spain insa-ub nutrition and food safety research institute university of barcelona barcelona spain.segura-moreno m. university of granada centre of excellence for paediatric research euristikos granada spain.soler-singla l. department of neurology hospital general de catalunya sant cugat del vallus barcelona department of basic sciences universitat internacional de catalunya sant cugat del vallus barcelona spain.soriano a. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.termes-escale m. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.torner n. department of health government of catalonia barcelona spain ciber epidemiologia y salud publica ciberesp instituto de salud carlos iii spain department of public health university of barcelona barcelona spain.torres-castro p. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.torres-espinola f.j. university of granada centre of excellence for paediatric research euristikos granada spain.tran c. nutrition food science and gastronomy department xarta insa pharmacy and food science school university of barcelona barcelona spain.tresserra-rimbau a. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy xarta insa-ub school of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.tresserras j. departament of history and archaeology faculty of geography and history university of barcelona barcelona spain.urpi-sarda m. biomarkers and nutrimetabolomic lab department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain ciber frailty and healthy aging ciberfes institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.valderas-martinez p. department of internal medicine hospital clinic idibaps university of barcelona ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobnhealth institute carlos iii madrid spain.vazquez-fresno r. biomarkers and nutrimetabolomic lab department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.veciana-nogues m.t.

m. centre of excellence for paediatric research euristikos university of granada granada spain.arranz-martinez s. department of internal medicine hospital clinic idibaps university of barcelona ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn health institute carlos iii madrid spain.arteaga c. toxicology unit department of pharmacology toxicology and medicinal chemistry faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain.azagra-boronat i. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain institute for research on nutrition and food safety insa-ub barcelona spain.bandinelli s. geriatric rehabilitation unit azienda sanitaria firenze florence italy.barcelo a. service genomics and bioinformatics institute of biotechnology and biomedicine ibb research park autonomous university of barcelona bellaterra spain.bartolome r. laboratory of microbiology hospital universitari vall d'hebron barcelona spain.bayes-garcia l. section of crystallography mineralogy and mineral deposits faculty of earth sciences university of barcelona bellaterra spain.boix n. toxicology unit department of pharmacology toxicology and medicinal chemistry faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona bellaterra spain.bonilla m. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy-xarta-insa school of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain.bosch a. enteric virus group department of microbiology university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub university of barcelona santa coloma de gramanet spain.bosch n. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.bover-cid s. irta-food safety programme institute for food and agricultural research and technology monells girona spain.bravo clemente l. institute of food science and technology and nutrition ictan-csic.buxaderas s. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.calvet t. section of crystallography mineralogy and mineral deposits faculty of earth sciences university of barcelona bellaterra spain.campoy c. university of granada centre of excellence for paediatric research euristikos granada spain university of granada paediatrics granada spain.camps-bossacoma m.section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.carpio-arias t. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy university of barcelona bellaterra spain.castell.

national university of chimborazo school of medicine riobamba ecuador.guo x. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy xarta insa-ub school of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain.guix s. enteric virus group department of microbiology university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub university of barcelona santa coloma de gramanet spain.haro d. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.hrvolova b. faculty of science university of ostrava ostrava czech republic.hurtado-barroso s. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy school of pharmacy and food science insa-university of barcelona barcelona spain ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.illan m. nutrition food science and gastronomy department xarta insa pharmacy and food science school university of barcelona barcelona spain.izquierdo-casas j. department of neurology hospital general de catalunya sant cugat del vallus barcelona department of basic sciences universitat internacional de catalunya sant cugat del vallus barcelona spain.izquierdo-pulido m. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy school of pharmacy and food science insa-university of barcelona barcelona spain ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.jauregui o. scientific and technological centers of the university of barcelona ccit-ub barcelona spain.juan m.e.

department of nutrition food science and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain institute for research on nutrition and food safety insa-ub barcelona spain institute of health carlos iii ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn madrid spain.lopez-tamames e. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.lorente-gascon m. department of basic sciences universitat internacional de catalunya sant cugat del vallus barcelona spain.luna o. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.martinez-gonzalez m.a.

department of nutrition food science and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.garrido p. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.gil f. museu de la xocolata barcelona spain.gomez-catalan j. toxicology unit department of pharmacology toxicology and medicinal chemistry faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain.gomez-contreras a. department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food science nutrition and food safety research institute-ub university of barcelona barcelona spain.grases-pinto b. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.guerendiain m.e.

faculty of health sciences nutrition university of san francisco de quito quito ecuador.coll x. chocolates amatller simon coll barcelona spain.colman-martinez m. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy xarta insa school of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain.comas-baste o. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy xarta insa faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet barcelona spain.cordero-garcia m. national center of food science and technology universidad de costa rica costa rica.corella d. department of preventive medicine and public health university of valencia spain ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.cornejo t. laboratory of microbiology hospital universitari vall d'hebron barcelona spain.creus-cuadros a. nutrition food science and gastronomy department pharmacy and food science school university of barcelona av.

institute of health carlos iii spain.quintanilla-casas b. university of barcelona barcelona spain.rabanal m. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona barcelona spain nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spain.rabassa m. biomarkers and nutrimetabolomic lab department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain ciber frailty and healthy aging ciberfes institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.relat j. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain.rigo-adrover m.m.

nutrition food science and gastronomy department xarta insa pharmacy and food science school university of barcelona barcelona spain.amat c. section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences nutrition and food safety research institute university of barcelona ub spain.andres-lacueva c. biomarkers and nutrimetabolomic lab department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa food and nutrition torribera campus faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet spain ciber frailty and healthy aging ciberfes institute of health carlos iii madrid spain.arias garcia.

department of nutrition food science and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona barcelona spain institute for research on nutrition and food safety insa-ub barcelona spain institute of health carlos iii ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn madrid spain.cherubini a. geriatrics and geriatric emergency care italian national research centre on aging irccs-inrca ancona italy.chiva-blanch g. cardiovascular research center csic-iccc barcelona spain department of internal medicine hospital clinic institute of biomedical investigation august pi i sunyer idibaps university of barcelona barcelona spain.chisaguano am.

cicitex junta de extremadura badajoz spain.quifer-rada p. department of nutrition food science and gastronomy xarta insa school of pharmacy and food science food and nutrition torribera campus university of barcelona barcelona spain ciber physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn.

department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy xarta insa faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona santa coloma de gramenet barcelona spain.vicente f. instituto superior de ciencias da saude egas moniz egas moniz cooperativa de ensino superior monte da caparica portugal section of physiology department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona institute for research on nutrition and food safety insa-ub barcelona spain.vichi s. department of nutrition food sciences and gastronomy university of barcelona barcelona spain.vidal-carou m.c.

conference reportcocoa and chocolate science and gastronomy--the second annual workshop of the research institute on nutrition and food security insa 9 november 2016malen massot-cladera 1 francisco perez-cano 1 rafael llorach 2 and mireia urpi-sarda 2department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food sciences university of barcelona 08028 barcelona spain m.m.-c.f.p.-c.department of nutrition food science and gastronomy faculty of pharmacy and food sciencescampus torribera university of barcelona 08921 santa coloma de gramanet spain correspondence murpiub.edu tel.

