these results indicated that dietary fibres modulate the abundance and activity of butyrate-producing bacteria in the large intestine of suckling piglets and that a moderate supplementation of alfalfa and cellulose may benefit early-life gut health through the delivery of butyrate to the mucosa.keywords dietary fibres  butyrate-producing bacteria  mucosal microbes  suckling pigletsintroductiondietary fibres have been widely recognized as bene- ficial additives that improve gut health through modulation of gut microbiota composition and func- tion.

in the present study both the alfalfa diet and the pure cellulose diet increased the numbers of clostridium cluster xiva bacteria in the colon of suckling piglets.

the alfalfa diet decreased p  0.05 the numbers of firmicutes and bacteroidetes compared with the control diet while the pure cellulose diet increased p  0.05 the numbers of clostridium cluster xiva compared with the control diet the alfalfa diet and wheat bran diet in the cecal digesta fig.

this may partly explain the higher fermentation ability of gut microbiota in suckling piglets fed the alfalfa diet.increases in the number of fibre-degrading bacteria and induction of their fibre-degrading activity are the first response to alterations in the entry of fer- mentable fibre substrates in the gut.

.discussionby analyzing functional genes and microbial fermen- tation products this study demonstrated that dietary fibres especially alfalfa and pure cellulose modulated the abundance and activity of butyrate-producing bacteria in the large intestine of suckling piglets.

considering the importance of the colonic mucosa with respect to its function as a barrier against pathogen invasion these results may be important for strategies for enhancing intestinal func- tion in piglets at early life.in conclusion we showed that dietary fibres modulate abundance and activity of butyrate-produc- ing bacteria in the large intestine of suckling piglets with differences being observed for different fibres and between gut locations.

b. among the three treatments the alfalfa diet increased the numbers of total bacteria firmicutes and bacteroidetes p  0.05 compared with the wheat bran diet in the mucosa of the distal colon.

twelve litters of healthy neonatal piglets 10-antonie van leeuwenhoek 2017 110687-69668911 piglets in each litter from a commercial maternal- line herd landrace-yorkshire-duroc were ran- domly divided into four treatments fed with a basal creep diet or creep diets supplemented with 1.3 alfalfa 2.92 wheat bran or 1 pure cellulose respectively table s1.

the higher copies of genes encoding enzymes involved in butyrate production and higher butyrate concentrations in alfalfa-fed piglets as compared to piglets fed wheat bran indicated that alfalfa inclusion stimulated butyrate fermentation in the digesta of the proximal colon.

a.in addition to affecting the bacterial numbers in the digesta dietary fibres also affected the numbers of bacteria and copies of butyrate production-associated genes in the mucosa.

a. along with the higher numbers of clostridium cluster xiva the copy numbers of butyryl-coaacetate coa-trans- ferase were also higher p  0.05 in the alfalfa diet than in the control diet in the colonic digesta fig.

it is therefore difficult to estimate the number of buty- rate-producing bacteria in complex fecal samples by only targeting the 16s rrna gene as these bacteria do not form a homogeneous phylogenetic group and often butyrate producers and non-butyrate producers are found within the same phylogenetic clusters pryde et al.

collectively the observed increase in clostridium cluster xiva bacteria might have given rise to the increase of fibre degradation and the subsequent scfa production.despite the relatively small sample sets that were used in the present study our data clearly showed the concomitant increase in clostridium cluster xiva butyrate production-associated genes and butyrate concentrations in the digesta of the proximal colon after alfalfa inclusion compared to wheat bran.

further research may be needed in order to clarify whether alfalfa inclusion may change butyrate absorp- tion by the gut epithelium.interestingly the mucosa-associated bacteria as well as bacterial genes that code for proteins involved in butyrate production were also affected by dietary fibres.

means within a gut location lumenmucosawithout a common letter differ p  0.05. no letters above the columns mean there are no statistically significant differences within a gut locationthe copies of the butyryl-coaacetate coa-transferase gene compared to the alfalfa diet.with respect to the effect of dietary fibres on the concentrations of scfas the alfalfa diet increased p  0.05 the concentrations of total scfas acetate propionate and valerate compared with the control diet and wheat bran diet in the digesta of the proximal colon fig.

