The complex and diametric roles ofKarki et al.Page 6inflammasome components in different forms of cancer suggest that anti-cancer therapies must be tailor to the specific cancer type and stage of disease.ConclusionsIn this review we provided a brief overview of the biological importance of inflammasomes in different forms of cancer.

Inflammation associated with tumor development is triggered by a variety of immune cells including macrophages neutrophils dendritic cells natural killer NK cells and T and B lymphocytes 2.

In contrast withprevious studies showing that mice lacking IL-18 are susceptible to DSS-induced intestinal inflammation and tumorigenesis 91617 a study has found that mice with a conditional deletion of IL-18 in either epithelial cells or hematopoietic cells were more resistant to DSS- induced colitis compared with cohoused wild-type mice indicating an IL-18-dependent function in both enterocytes and hematopoietic cells 18.

IL-22 also maintains IL-18 expression in epithelial cells of the ileum whereas IL-18 itself is required for IL-22 expression in CD4 T cells and innate lymphoid cells 21.The diametric roles of IL-18 have also been observed in lung metastasis.

A knockdown of the gene encoding ASC increases the viability and growth of primary melanoma cells whereas it reduces the viability and growth of metastatic melanoma cells when these cells were injected into nude mice 38.

The IL-18 axis can also induce tumoricidal activity of NK cells against metastasized colonic tumor cells 19 downregulation IL-22 binding protein IL-22BP 20 and inhibiting the colonization of colitogenic microbiota 27 possibly through its role in MUC2 secretion by goblet cells 2931.

However injection of recombinant IL-18 into mice lacking inflammasome components reduces the prevalence of tumors in responseKarki et al.Page 3to AOM and DSS 9 suggesting that this inflammasome-associated cytokine could be considered a potential candidate in immunotherapy against certain cases of colorectal cancer.NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated secretion of IL-18 can also induce tumoricidal activity of NK cells against metastasized colonic tumor cells in the mouse liver 19.

PubMed 25879280Karki et al.Page 7Girardelli M Maestri I Rinaldi RR Tognon M Boldorini R Bovenzi M et al.

PubMed 25680273Karki et al.Page 8Terme M Ullrich E Aymeric L Meinhardt K Desbois M Delahaye N et al.

PubMed 23090995Karki et al.Page 9Tu S Bhagat G Cui G Takaishi S Kurt-Jones EA Rickman B et al.

