xys intervention may effectively adjust the gut dysbacteriosis in fd.key words functional dyspepsia with liver depression- spleen deficiency syndrome illumina sequencing gut microbial diversity xiaoyaosanc the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.impacts the patient's quality of life.

telephone 86-411-83635963fax 86-411-83622844received august 29 2016peer-review started august 30 2016first decision november 9 2016revised november 21 2016accepted december 8 2016article in press december 8 2016published online february 7 2017abstractaimto investigate gut microbial diversity and the inter- ventional effect of xiaoyaosan xys in a rat model of functional dyspepsia fd with liver depression-spleen deficiency syndrome.methodsthe fd with liver depression-spleen deficiency syn- drome rat model was established through classic chronic mild unpredictable stimulation every day.

gut microbial diversity of functional dyspepsiathe rat weight sucrose test result and open-field test result.

many molecular biology techniques have been used to illustrate gut microbial diversity including denaturing temperature gradient gel electrophoresis terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and high- throughput sequencing12.

gut microbial diversity analysis using illumina sequencing for functional dyspepsia with liver depression-spleen deficiency syndrome and the interventional xiaoyaosan in a rat model.

fd is not life-threatening but adverselyinformation on microbial diversity with high accuracy and thus has been widely used in the study of gut microbial diversity.

here we used the illumina se- quencing to analyze gut microbial diversity of fd.

the goal of the current study was to describe gut microbial diversity on fd with liver depression-spleen deficiency syndrome in a rat model and to assess the effect of xys on microflora.materials and methodsestablishment and validation of rat modelsmale sprague-dawley rats of clean grade were su-qiu jj et al .

gut microbial diversity of functional dyspepsiapplied by the experimental animal center of dalian medical university dalian china.

gut microbial diversity of functional dyspepsia1.5of bacteroidetes in the fd model group was lower than observed in the normal group.

on the contrary the relative abundancein this study we modeled fd with liver depression- spleen deficiency syndrome in rats and observed changes in gut microbial diversity with or without xys intervention.fd is a common clinical digestive disease with epigastric discomfort postprandial full bilge abdominal bloating belching anorexia nausea vomiting heartburn and other symptoms that occur persistently or recurrently20.

these stimulations led to successful fd with liver depression- spleen deficiency syndrome through making rats nervous and depressive for a long time.some studies have indicated the influence that gut microbial diversity may have on different diseases including gastrointestinal disease incretion disease and mental disease22.

these groups of microorganisms have in fact been indicated as the three predominant phyla in the gut of animals and humans24.

firmicutes was the most favored microflora and the highest in proportion in the gut of mammals.

gut microbial diversity of functional dyspepsiafigure 2 agarose gel electrophoresis of pcr products of the v4 region of 16s rdna.

