there is also growing evidence that chronic endoplasmic reticulum stress through regulation of several pathways leading to oxidative stress inflammation perturbed hepatic lipid homeostasis apoptosis and autophagy can induce hepatic steatosis and its progression to nash.

together these results suggest that adipose tissue lipolysis plays a major role in the development of nicotine plus hfd-induced hepatic steatosis.mechanistically nicotine activates ampka2 in adipocytes which phosphorylates map kinase phosphatase-1 mkp1 at serine 334 resulting its proteasome-dependent degradation .nicotine-induced reduction in mkp1 in turn activates both p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 mapk and c-jun-nh2- terminal kinase jnk which phosphorylates insulin receptor substrate 1 irs1 at serine 307. phosphorylation of irs1 leads to its degradation and the subsequent inhibition of akt resulting in increased adipose tissue lipolysis and circulating ffa levels .the role of er stresschronic er stress induces several pathways leading to oxida- tive stress inflammation perturbed hepatic lipid homeostasis apoptosis and autophagy that can lead to hepatic steatosis and its progression to nash reviewed in ref.

there is also growing evidence that chronic er stress through regulation of several pathways leading to oxidative stress inflammation perturbed hepatic lipid homeostasis apoptosis and autophagy can also induce hepatic steatosis and its progression to nash.

this review discusses emerging evidence of contribution of nicotine when combined with obesity to the development of hepatic steatosis and insights into the molecular mechanisms by which nicotine contributes to non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld.nafld is highly prevalent in obese individuals and can be exaggerated by smokingnon-alcoholic fatty liver disease is the most common liver disorder and is associated with metabolic syndrome and diabetes mellitus.

smoking is a major risk factor for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung cancer and devastating cardiovascular disease cvd such as myocardial infarction sudden death strokeand peripheral vascular disease - with a dose-response cor- relation between cvd morbidity and mortality and the number of cigarettes smoked .

hispanics have the highest prevalence of hepatic steatosis followed by caucasians and then african- americans .mechanisms linking nicotine to nafldthe hallmark of nafld is accumulation of triglycerides tg in the hepatocytes steatosis.

we found that nicotine alone did not lead to hepatic steatosis but it caused hepatic steatosis only when combined with hfd  .

decisive evidence that increased adipose tissue lipolysis contributes to nicotine plus hfd-induced hepatic steatosis derives from studies showing that acipimox an inhibitor of adipose tissue lipolysis treatment significantly prevented nico- tine plus hfd-induced increase in hepatic tg levels and hepatic steatosis  .

activation of jnk has also been documented in hfd-induced hepatic steatosis in apoplipoprotein e knockout mice  or nicotine plus hfd-induced hepatic steatosis in obese mice .

emerging evidence now suggests that nicotine exacerbates hepatic steatosis triggered by hfd through increased oxi- dative stress and hepatocellular apoptosis decreased phosphorylation inactivation of adenosine-5-monophosphate-activated protein kinase and in turn up-regulation of sterol response-element binding protein 1-c fatty acid synthase and activation of acetyl-coenzyme a-carboxylase leading to increased hepatic lipogenesis.

mechanistically this is commonly mediated by the prevalent two-hit hypothesis that implies accumulation of tg in hepatocytes steatosis in the first hit followed by triggering progression to inflammation oxidative stress and apoptosis in the second hit   .

the effect of first-hand smoke on the severity of hepatic steatosis was associated with increased oxida- tive stress hepatocyte apoptosis expression of key genes involved in hepatic fibrogenesis and inactivation of akt but stimulation of extracellular signal regulated kinase erk signaling.

the additive effects of nicotine on the severity of hfd-induced hepatic steatosis was associated with significantly greater oxidative stress increased hepatic tg levels higher inci- dence of hepatocellular apoptosis inactivation dephosphoryla- tion of ampk and activation of its downstream target acc .

thus it is possible that nicotine plus hfd could generate severe hepatic er stress leading to hepatic steatosis.

a novel cystine based antioxidant attenuates oxidative stress and hepatic steatosis in diet-induced obese mice.

