The atypical physiological profiles were observed in E. hirae 13 strains were negative for production of acids from raffinose E. faecalis 25 strains positive for MGP and one strain negative for arginine testing E. casseliflavus 4 strains positive for sorbose testing and E. hermanniensis 2 strains positive for pyruvate and sorbitol testing.

Nine 81.8 strains of E. casseliflavus showed decreased susceptibility to cip- rofloxacin and enrofloxacin while decreased susceptibility to quinupristindalfopristin was observed in eight 72.7 strains.Nonsusceptibility to quinupristindalfopristin was detected in E. hirae E. casseliflavus and E. gallinarum strains 41.4 9.2 and 3.4 re- spectively.

E. hirae was the species most frequently associated with multiresistance corresponding to 55.0 of the strains followed by E. faecalis 34.2 E. casseliflavus 8.1 and E. gallinarum 2.7.Occurrence of antimicrobial resistance genesAmong the 10 tetracycline-resistant strains observed two harbored the tetM gene only one harbored the tetL gene only and seven har- bored both tetM and tetL genes.

Therefore knowing the commensal microbi- ota of clinically healthy animals is an important step in the epidemiolo- gy of their infectious diseases.Atypical physiological profiles were observed in E. hirae E. faecalis E. casseliflavus and E. hermanniensis isolated from fecal samples of A. aestiva in the present study.

In addition mechanisms resistance to b- lactam are usually investigated in E. faecalis and E. faecium and studies with other species such as E. hirae are required.Although most E. faecalis remain susceptible to b-lactams high-level resistance to aminoglycosides has been largely reported among strains from humans  and ani- mals  representing an important problem for the traditional combination therapy.

Resistance to rifampicin was detected in 81 35.0 strains being 59.2 4881 identified as E. hirae 38.3 3181 as E. faecalis and 2.5 281 as E. casseliflavus.

The streptogramin A resistance gene vatD was found in 46 quinupristindalfopristin-resistant strains thir- ty-five E. hirae eight E. casseliflavus and three E. gallinarum.

Lanes 1 and 14 molecular size markers lanes 2 3 5 12 and 13 clonal group HA lanes 7 10 and 11 clonal group HB lanes 8 and 9 clonal group HC lane 6 clonal group HD lane 4 clonal group HE.in a more recent study by involving wild and cap- tive A. aestiva E. faecium and E. faecalis were the predominant entero- coccal species followed by E. hirae.

The 16S rRNA gene sequences obtained for the two strains identified as E. hermanniensis showed 99.70 and 99.40 of sequence identity to that of the type strain of E. hermanniensis GenBank accession number GQ337028 respectively.Antimicrobial susceptibilityAll the strains were evaluated for their susceptibility to 18 antibiotics representing twelve classes.

AntimicrobialNumber  of strains according to the institution and the category of nonsusceptibilityCETAS-RJn  130Category of nonsusceptibilityRIO-ZOOn  101Totaln  231a Antimicrobial AMP Ampicillin CIP Ciprofloxacin CLO Chloramphenicol ENR Enrofloxacin ERY Erythromycin STR Streptomycin FOS Fosfomycin GEN Gentamicin LEV Levofloxacin LZD Linezolid NIT Nitrofurantoin NOR Norfloxacin PEN Penicillin QID Quinupristindalfopristin RIF Rifampicin TEC Teicoplanin TET Tetracycline VAN Vancomycin.b Category of nonsusceptibility I intermediate R resistant.c NA Not applicable.Table 3Distribution of antimicrobial nonsusceptible strains among the different enterococcal species isolated from the fecal microbiota of captive Amazona aestiva in Rio de Janeiro Brazil.IsolatesCNS Percentage of nonsusceptible strains according to the category of nonsusceptibility and the antimicrobiala CNS category of nonsusceptibility I-intermediate R-resistant.b AMP Ampicillin CIP Ciprofloxacin CLO Chloramphenicol ENR Enrofloxacin ERY Erythromycin STR Streptomycin FOS Fosfomycin GEN Gentamicin LEV Levofloxacin LZD Linezolid NIT Nitrofurantoin NOR Norfloxacin PEN Penicillin QID Quinupristindalfopristin RIF Rifampicin TEC Teicoplanin TET Tetracycline VAN Vancomycin.c NA Not applicable.while penicillin resistance was present in E. hirae and E. faecalis strains 7.5 and 5.0 respectively.

