approximately 100 ml blood was collected into heparin-con- taining tubes for future quantification of tracer and insulin.the clamp period 0 to 120 minutes began with an insulin bolus of 20 mu kg-1 min-1 for 2 minutes porcine insulin sigma-aldrich canada co. oakville on canada followed by a continuous jugular infusion of 4 mu kg-1 min-1 insulin and 0.8 mci kg-1 min-1 of 3-3hglu- cose.

research articleof the milk sugars galactose but not prebiotic galacto-oligosaccharide improves insulin sensitivity in male sprague-dawley ratspriska stahel1 julie j. kim1 changting xiao2 john p. cant11 department of animal biosciences university of guelph guelph canada 2 departments of medicine and physiology university of toronto toronto canada abstractopen accesscitation stahel p kim jj xiao c cant jp 2017 of the milk sugars galactose but not prebiotic galacto-oligosaccharide improves insulin sensitivity in male sprague-dawley rats.

stimulation of pgu by insulin was not affected by gal  which means that all of the whole-body response to gal can be attributed to an improved hepatic insulin sensitivity.

vehicle- and insu- lin-stimulated phosphorylation of glycogen synthase did not differ  but insulin's abil- ity to suppress inhibitory phosphorylation of gs was significantly greater with gal compared to glc and frc .discussionthe objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of milk sugars on insulin sensitivity when given at 15 of dry matter intake.

injection of insulin or vehicle n  6. d insulin effect on hepatic gs phosphorylation expressed as a ratio of phosphorylation state in vehicle-stimulated rats to phosphorylation state in insulin-stimulated rats n  6. p  0.05 for gal vs glc and frc contrast.doi10.1371journal.pone.0172260.g002dietary fructose is exclusively catabolized in the liver where fructokinase ec 2.7.1.4 and aldolase ec 4.1.2.13 split fructose into 2 triose phosphates bypassing the highly regulated phosphofructokinase step  and yielding acetyl-coa building blocks for de novo lipogenesis more readily than glucose.

although inefficient hepatic uptake of galactose from diets containing  30 galactose leads to hypergalactosemia that is used to mimic symptoms of diabetes  whether the preferential diversion of galactose intohepatic glycogen influences the sensitivity of glucose flux to insulin has not been investi- gated previously.here we report that isocaloric substitution of galactose for glucose or fructose at 15 of dietary dry matter improved hepatic insulin sensitivity with no alteration in plasma glucose concentration.

found no difference between glucose fructose or lactose con- sumed at 15 of dry matter intake by young cattle in the quicki index of hepatic insulin sen- sitivity estimated from fasting plasma glucose and insulin concentrations.

the tendency for gal to increase colonic proglucagon expression may provide a link between intestinal microbiome effects and improved insulin sensitivity although basal plasma insulin was not affected.in contrast to galactose galacto-oligosaccharides from milk are indigestible but exert prebi- otic effects which can increase colonic short-chain fatty acid production  and ameliorate high-fat diet induced endotoxemia thereby improving inflammatory status and glucose toler- ance .

supplementing diets containing 72 of calories from fat with 10 oli- gofructose improved hepatic insulin sensitivity via increased insulin-stimulated phosphoryla- tion of irs1 and akt  along with increased intestinal proglucagon expression and noeffect on peripheral insulin sensitivity.

these results indicate that milk sugars particularly the galactose moiety of lactose has beneficial effects on insulin sensitivity while the more com- monly consumed glucose and fructose had negatively affected insulin sensitivity.

effect of fructose feeding on insulin secretion and insulin action in the rat.

galactose from milk lactose is readily converted to glycogen in the liver but its effects on insulin sensi- tivity have not been assessed.

our objective was to assess the effect on insulin sensitivity of dietary galactose compared to glucose and fructose and fermentable galacto- oligosaccharides compared to non-fermentable methylcellulose.methodsdiets containing 15 of dry matter from glucose fructose galactose galacto-oligosaccha- rides or methylcellulose were fed to 36 rats per diet for 9 weeks.

hyperinsulinemic-euglyce- mic clamps with 3-3hglucose infusion and a steady-state 2-1-14cdeoxyglucose bolus injection were used to assess insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake indices.

fed-state hepatic gly- cogen content was greater with galactose compared to glucose and fructose consistent with a potentiation of the insulin effect on glycogen synthase by dephosphorylation.

