elimination of ctxs e. coli popula- tions further demonstrated the return of the efficacy of the antibiotic that had been rendered ineffective by the presence of the resistance plasmids.in control mice that received the resistance plasmid but not the interference plasmid ctxr bacteria remained  tables and  and specific rep and resistance genes in vivo cure of pel1573-colonized mice.e.

theoretically homologous recombination might restore toxin or antibiotic resistance genes to an interference plasmid although a less resistant addictive plasmid or a non-addictive resistance plasmid both seem preferable options to persistence of the original addictive resistance plasmid.

modern resistance plasmids may spread through a range of different member species of the enterobacteriaceae asa plasmid epidemic but host strain contributions to plasmid-encoded antibiotic resistance phenotypes  further complicate surveillance and control  .

a conjugative resistance plasmid in the microflora directly increases risk of therapeutic failure  and may spread resistance to others.

even when spread of a particular resistance plasmid is defined early enough for implementation of containment strat- egies the only available option is to use an antibiotic to which the plasmid does not confer resistance in an attempt to entirely eliminate all bacterial populations that carry it.older antibiotics and those not used as primary therapy in severe sepsis may provide options for killing bacterial populations harbouring dangerous plasmids.

plasmids encoding resistance to carbapenems andor third-generation cephalosporins which often also carry aminoglycoside resistance determinants are the highest priority for elimination.

the resistance region and principal toxin gene of pjibe401 and pjie512b were replaced with teta or fosa3 retaining the antitoxin gene and introducing resistance to tetracycline tetr and fosfomycin fosr .

coli k. pneumoniae citrobacter freundii or morganella morganii  carrying the respective ctxr resistance plasmid pel1573 or pjie512b appeared to result in loss of the resistance plasmid only after purifying selection on rif-tet agar with bystander plasmids preserved .

protocols based on published work  were used to introduce resistance and then inter- ference plasmids in bacteria with different chromosomal resistance markers rifampicinrifr or azide azir  to allow tracking of both strains and plasmids by differential subculture.

only antibiotic-susceptible origi- nally resident tets ctxs e. coli azir tets ctxs e. coli and rifr tets ctxs e. coli bacteria used to introduce resistance or interference plasmid now carrying neither were retrieved and these were present in comparable proportions 104-105 cfumg of faeces tables and .ctx was finally re-administered days 23 24 to select for any residual resistance ctxr plasmids or transferred genes that may not have been detected by culture or direct pcr.

effective targeting of incompatibility and addiction may provide solutions for a variety of antibiotic resistance plasmidsin vivo cure of antibiotic resistance plasmids.

2005 4394918- 4919. doi pmidvan hal sj wiklendt a espedido b ginn a iredell jr. immediate appearance of plasmid-mediated resistance to multiple antibiotics upon antibiotic selection an argument for systematic resistance epide- miology.

research articleplasmid interference for curing antibiotic resistance plasmids in vivomuhammad kamruzzaman1 shereen shoma1 christopher m. thomas2 sallyr.

partridge13 jonathan r. iredell131 centre for infectious diseases and microbiology the westmead institute for medical research the university of sydney westmead new south wales australia 2 institute of microbiology and infection university of birmingham birmingham united kingdom 3 westmead hospital westmead new south wales australia abstractopen accesscitation kamruzzaman m shoma s thomas cm partridge sr iredell jr 2017 plasmid interference for curing antibiotic resistance plasmids in vivo.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data are within the paper and its supporting information files.funding this work was funded by grant numbers g1001021 and g1084672 national health and medical research council nhmrc australia.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.antibiotic resistance increases the likelihood of death from infection by common pathogens such as escherichia coli and klebsiella pneumoniae in developed and developing countries alike.

