the following mother and daughter ions were followed arginine 175.20  69.90 citrulline176.00  113.00 ornithine 133.00  69.90 l-2-aminobutyric acid internal standard 104.10  57.80 and urea 60.90  43.90. due to matrix interference all quantifications were carried out through standard addition a.extracellular concentrations of glucose lactic acid acetic acid and acetoin were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography with refractive index detection hplc-ri using aduring the microaerobic experiments the glucose level g in mol liter-1 was linked to the evolution of the biomass concentration x and its conversion into lactic acid l in mol liter-1 as followsdgdt 14 -1.yxgdxdt - mgx1dldt 14 -ylgdgdt2with yxg in cfu mol-1 mg in mol cfu h -1 and ylg in mol mol-1 being the cell yield coefficient on glucose the cell mainte- nance coefficient related to glucose consumption and the lactic acid yield coefficient on glucose respectively.during the aerobic experiments the conversion patterns were more convoluted and consisted of three phases see below.

also the mean rate ka at which the acetic acid levels declined upon lactic acid deple- tion during the stationary growth phase was lower for s. carnosustable 1biokinetic parameters mean - standard deviation related to bacterial growth and arginine conversion under microaerobic or aerobic conditions and in the absence or presence of glucose.table 2biokinetic parameters mean - standard deviation related to glucose conversion under microaerobic or aerobic conditions in a meat simulation medium with glucose and arginine.833 than for s. haemolyticus g110 p0.05 d2.1.for the two adi-positive strains addition of glucose slowed down arginine conversion as compared to the experiments in the absence of added glucose.

2. growth in log cfu ml-1 x in a meat simulation medium supplemented with arginine and glucose and extracellular concentrations in mm of arginine c citrulline  ornithine b glucose - lactic acid  acetic acid  and acetoin th of staphylococcus carnosus 833 a and d s. pasteuri as3-13 b and e and s. haemolyticus g110 c and f under microaerobic conditions.

3. growth in log cfu ml-1 x in a meat simulation medium supplemented with arginine and glucose and extracellular concentrations in mm of arginine c citrulline  ornithine b glucose - lactic acid  acetic acid  and acetoin th of staphylococcus carnosus 833 a and d s. pasteuri as3-13 b and e and s. haemolyticus g110 c and f under aerobic conditions.

the mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.4 ml min-1 wascomposed of ultrapure water containing 0.05 volvol hepta- fluorobutyric acid 0.05 volvol formic acid and 1 acetonitrile volvol eluent a as well as of ultrapure water containing 0.1 volvol heptafluorobutyric acid 0.05 volvol formic acid and 99 acetonitrile volvol eluent b. the following gradient was used composition  in volvol at different time points with a linear profile imposed in between 0.0 min 100 a and 0 b4.0 min 50 a and 50 b and 5.7 min 100 a and 0 b until7.0 min.

upon aeration the three cns strains studied simultaneously produced acetic acid lactic acid and acetoin after which a conversion of lactic acid into acetic acid was found.

the group of cns can metabolise arginine via the arginine deiminase adi pathway generating ornithine acid- neutralizing ammonia and atp  a. whereas adi activity is important for the anaerobic competitiveness of staphylococci they can also switch to the conversion of arginine into ornithine and urea by the arginase enzyme under aerobic conditions.

in this study the conversion of the amino acid arginine by two strains with arginine deiminase adi activity staphylo- coccus carnosus 833 and s. pasteuri as3-13 and a strain with nitric oxide synthase nos activity s. haemolyticus g110 was modelled as a function of glucose and oxygen availability.

when changing from microaerobic conditions to aerobiosis a switch from homolactic fermentation to a combined formation of lactic acid acetic acid and acetoin was found in all cases after which lactic acidand acetic acid were used as substrates.

once glucose is depleted and catabolic repression of the tricarboxylic acid tca cycle is lifted lactic acid and acetic acid are taken up by the cells0740-0020c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.and catabolised .

calibration was performed using external standards.dldt 14 -ylgdgdt4dadt 14 -yagdgdt5dacdt 14 -yacgdgdt6with yag and yacg being the acetic acid and acetoin yield co- efficients from glucose in mol mol-1 respectively.in a second phase when the stationary phase was reached lactic acid was quantitatively converted into acetic acid until depletion.modelling and statisticsall model equations were integrated using the euler integration technique with a time step of 0.25 h in microsoft excel 2007. in adldt 14 -klxdif l 2 0 else dldt 14 0th7first step the growth data were fitted as biomass concentrations x in cfu ml-1 using a modification of the logistic growth model encompassing a lag phase l in h a maximum specific growth rate mmax in per h and a maximum cell population xmax in cfu ml-1 .

this approach remains speculative and encounters major technological difficulties such as the reliance on oxygen a .the aim of the present study was to examine the conversion kinetics and co-metabolism of the energy sources glucose and arginine by meat and cow's teat apex-related cns strains as a function of oxygen availability using a quantitative rate-based approach.materials and methodsmicroorganisms and mediathree cns strains were used to explore the conversion kinetics of glucose and arginine encompassing i an adi-positive meat starter culture strain s. carnosus 833 ii an adi-positive strain originating from a spontaneously fermented meat product s. pasteuri as3-13 and iii an isolate from teat apex skin of a dairy cow with nos-type phenotypic behaviour s. haemolyticus g110.

1. growth in log cfu ml-1 x in a meat simulation medium supplemented with arginine and extracellular concentrations in mm of arginine c citrulline  and ornithine b of staphylococcus carnosus 833 under microaerobic a or aerobic conditions d s. pasteuri as3-13 under microaerobic b or aerobic conditions e ands.

the data shown are representative for all independently repeated fermentation experiments.bacterial growth and arginine consumption in the absence of glucoseduring the microaerobic cultivation experiments without glucose both adi-positive strains s. carnosus 833 and s. pasteuri as3-13 showed similar patterns of growth and arginine conversion .

aerobicity also decreased the arginine conversion rate compared to the similar microaerobic experiments with glucose in particular for s. pasteuri as3-13 p 0.007 d 4.0. for s. haemolyticus g110 aerobic arginine metabolism led to similar results independent of the addition of glucose.

