Despite the lack of clear serological markers indicat- ing food allergy in ADHD future studies should further investigate this open question and examine whether food allergy or hypersensitivity could play a role in ADHD and mediate elimination diets' effects particularly given the previous findings suggesting a link between ADHD and allergies   .Microbiome-gut-brain axisDiet and the role of the microbiome in health and diseaseThe intestinal microbial flora is involved in appetite regula- tion energy utilization digestion and absorption of nutri- ents  .

Although the etiology of ASD and ADHD remains largely unknown a complex interaction of genetic and environmental factors is thought to contribute to the development of ASD and ADHD   .One of the potential environmental risk factors for neu- rodevelopmental disorders is diet .

More knowledge about the mechanisms underlying elimi- nation diets' effects in ADHD and ASD is needed.Clinical implications and future researchThe GFCF diet might be beneficial for children with ASD and food intoleranceallergy or underlying gastrointesti- nal disease.

Proc Natl Acad Sci 11214105-14112. doiGraham J Banaschewski T Buitelaar J et al 2011 European guidelines on managing adverse effects of medication for ADHD.

Thus an elimination diet can be regarded as a 'diagnostic' tool for determining whether specific foods cause adverse physical andor behavioral reactions.Evidence for elimination diets' effects on ADHD and ASD symptomsGluten-freecasein-free diet in children with ASDThere is increasing research into the effectiveness of the GFCF diet in children diagnosed with ASD.

J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry 45346-354. doiFoley M 2011 A comparison of family adversity and fam- ily dysfunction in families of children with attention defi- cit hyperactivity disorder ADHD and families of chil- dren without ADHD.

Therefore a dietary treatment that is able to restore the gut permeability can be effective as a treatment for children with ASD -.The role of the microbiome-gut-brain axis in ADHDAlthough direct evidence for a role of changed microbi- ome-gut-brain interaction is currently lacking in ADHD converging evidence suggests that similar alterations in microbiome-gut-brain interaction can contribute to ADHD symptoms as well  .

In Table  an overview is provided for several charac- teristics of the respective diets including the excluded food items main target group efficacy and nutritional elements that would require attention in case of long-term exclusion to avoid deficiencies.Gluten-free diet andor casein-free diet in ASDThe focus on GFCF diets in ASD originates from the evidence of comorbid gastrointestinal tract problems in patients with ASD -.

J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry 47921-929. doiPelsser LM Frankena K Buitelaar JK Rommelse NN 2010 Effects of food on physical and sleep complaints in children with ADHD a randomised controlled pilot study.

In ASD the gluten-free andor casein-free GFCF diet has been mainly investigated whereas in ADHD clinical tri- als examined the effects of food additives exclusion diets and the oligoantigentic diets.

