these therapeutical effects prevent bone loss and improve bone formation the principal aim of this experimental work was to evaluate and to compare the effects of two itf in experimental models of colon cancer and calcium metabolism in rats and mice.materials and methodsexperimental model of colon cancer.

butyrate also causes apoptosis reduces metastasis in colon cell lines and protects from genotoxic carcinogens by enhancing expression of enzymes involved in detoxification 17.mexican agave plant tequilana weber blue variety is an interesting source of fructans which are formed by a complex mix of fructooligosaccharides with prebiotic actions 18 9. indeed the bifidogenic and physiologic effects of these fructans in vitro and in animal models had been demonstrated  0. in our experimental study it was not possible to associate the effect of fructans in colonblue agave and from chicory showed beneficial effects inin tnfintestine which prevented development of colorectal cancer.

protective effect of agave salmiana fructans in azoxymethane-induced colon cancer in wistar rats natural product communications vol.

itf can be consideredas prebiotics and their consumption has been associated with beneficial health effects for example to improve lipid profile antioxidant function and colon cancer prevention and to improve bioavailability of calcium and magnesium in our results about aomdss-induced colon cancer in balbcannhsd mice model there were several histopatho- logical changes in intestinal mucosa such as villous atrophy polyp formation intestinal cell dysplasia and lymphoid hyperplasia.

histological results after oophorectomy on rats are shown in figure histology results in femur of rats showed that different fructan treatments did not produce damage.a significant weight increase was observed in oophorec- tomized rats with inulins and isoflavones treatments com- pared with control rats not oophorectomized.

cieslik k. topolska w. praznik and j. m. cruz rubio effect of agave fructans on selected parameters of calcium metabolism and bone condition in rats the journal of aging research  clinical practice vol.

we evaluated and compared the effects of chicory inulin synergy 1r and inulin from mexican agave metlinr in two experimental models of colon cancer and bone calcium metabolism in mice and rats.

hindawi publishing corporation biomed research internationalvolume 2017 article id 9758982 10 pages research articlefunctional effects of prebiotic fructans in colon cancer and calcium metabolism in animal modelsmarisol rivera-huerta1 vania lorena lizarraga-grimes1 ibrahim guillermo castro-torres2 mabel tinoco-mendez1 lucia macias-rosales1 francisco sanchez-bartez1graciela guadalupe tapia-perez3 laura romero-romero4 and maria isabel gracia-mora11 unidad de investigacio'n precl'inica uniprec facultad de qu'imica universidad nacional auto'noma de me'xico ciudad de me'xico mexico2colegio de ciencias y humanidades plantel sur universidad nacional auto'noma de me'xico ciudad de me'xico mexico3departamento de gene'tica y bioestad'istica facultad de medicina veterinaria y zootecnia universidad nacional auto'noma de me'xico ciudad de me'xico mexico4departamento de patolog'ia facultad de medicina veterinaria y zootecnia universidad nacional auto'noma de me'xico ciudad de me'xico mexicocorrespondence should be addressed to mar'ia isabel gracia-mora received 8 october 2016 revised 27 december 2016 accepted 11 january 2017 published 15 february 2017 academic editor anna k. walduckcopyright c 2017 marisol rivera-huerta et al.

the mechanism of action in increasing absorption is unknown but may be related to increased colonic calcium bioavailability.conclusionsthe data suggest that fructans from chicory synergy 1 and from mexican agave metlin may contribute to a reduction in the risk of colon cancer.

chicory inulin has been identified as an effective prebiotic to promote active fermentation and lactobacilli proliferation in the large intestine and to enhancetable 1 experimental design of colon cancer model.1synergy 1-preinduction1 month with inulin treatmentaomdss8 months without inulin treatmentmetlin-pre- and postinductiondss8 months with inulin treatmentsynergy 1-postinductionaomdss9 months with inulins treatmentcalcium digestive absorption and deposition in bones the mexican agave plant is an important source of fructans which had demonstrated bifidogenic effects in animal models however itf of agave genus have been poorly studied for their possible protective effects in others diseases for example cancer and osteoporosis.

l. pool-zobel inulin-type fructans and reduction in colon cancer risk review of experimental and human data british journal of nutrition vol.

inulins weresynergy 1dissolved in water and the rats had free access to water and normal dietisoflavones were administered at doses of 33.5 mgdayrat at the same conditions as that of the inulinsmetlin  isoflavonesa mixture of inulins and isoflavones was administered under dosessynergy 1  isoflavonesindicated abovewithout inulinsoophorectomized experimental group without inulins treatmentswithout inulinsexperimental group not oophorectomized without inulins treatmentall the rats of experimental groups 1-6 were oophorectomized and only the experimental group 7 had rats without oophorectomy.shows in table .

fructans from mexican agave showed a decrease of calcium concentration in urine these results can be associated with a favorable calcium absorption in small intestine.

inulins inhibited the development of dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis and colon cancer in mice these fructans reduced the concentration of tumor necrosis factor alpha and prevented the formation of intestinal polyps villous atrophy and lymphoid hyperplasia.

concentration of tnf and interleukin- il- 10 in the aomdss group was sig- nificantly increased in the colon and jejunum figure .showed in figure model of calcium metabolismhistology and calcium concentration.

