The ileal hormone FGF19 is secreted into the portal blood in response to FXR activation and although levels were increased after small-bowel resection OCA treatment did not alter portal FGF19 levels in OCA-treated sham or SBS piglets C. FXR gene expression was measured in liver and intestine samples D. FXR gene expression was increased significantly within the liver of OCA-treated sham piglets and untreated SBS piglets whenFigure 3.

Although chronic FXR activation is beneficial in primary biliary cirrhosis diabetes-associated nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis the chronic activation of FXR in a perinatal mouse model led to unexpected partial perinatal lethality and spontaneous liver toxicity.In this study we examined FXR agonist adminis- tration in a novel pathologic setting that of liver disease associated with short-bowel syndrome.

OCA treatment in SBS piglets resulted in a significant reduction in portal unconjugated HCA levels when compared with untreated SBS piglets however levels remained significantly increased compared with sham controls.A Dichotomous Gene Response to OCA Treatment Between the Intestine and Liver in SBSGiven our previous findings of disturbed FXR signaling in SBS pigletsand the OCA-induced modulation of bile acid composition in SBS piglets we investigated the relative expression of key intestinal and hepatic FXR target genesinvolved in the regulation of bile acid synthesis and trans- port.

Circulating OCA was confirmed to be of similar levels in both treated SBS and sham animals A. SBS piglets showed common clinical manifes- tations of SBS including failure to gain weight persistent diarrhea and fat malabsorption B-D. OCA treat- ment did not influence weight gain or resolve diarrhea in SBS piglets however OCA-treated SBS piglets showed decreased stool fat suggestive of improved fat absorption.OCA treatment has been efficacious in preventing the development of liver disease in a range of animal models.

In the liver OCA treatment of sham and SBS piglets resulted in increased MRP2 gene expression whereas small heterodimer partner SHP bile salt export pump BSEP organic solute transporter beta OSTb and Sulfotransferase Family 2A Member 1 SULT2A1 were increased only in OCA-treated SBS piglets when compared with untreated SBS piglets.

Gene expression of key FXR targets was assessed in intestinal and hepatic tissues via quantitative polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS OCA-treated SBS piglets showed decreased stool fat and altered liver histology when compared with nontreated SBS piglets.

The expression of FXR target genes involved in bile acid transport and synthesis increased within the liver of SBS piglets after OCA administration whereas paradoxically intestinal expression of FXR target genes were decreased by OCA administration.CONCLUSIONS Administration of OCA in SBS reduced fat malabsorption and altered bile acid composition but did not prevent the development of SBS-ALDs.

Furthermore although the expression of FXR target genes was increased in the liver of SBS piglets treated with OCA paradoxically the expression of FXR target genes in the in- testine was decreased.OCA treatment was effective in reducing fat malabsorp- tion which may offer clinical benefit in patients with SBS.

OCA treatment resulted in increased gene expression of FXR targets within the liver but paradoxically a decrease in FXR target gene expression in the intestine of SBS piglets.

A recent report also suggested efficacy in patients with primary bile acid diarrhea.Given the success of OCA administration in the prevention of liver disease in both mouse models and human disease we postulated that administration of OCA to SBS piglets would prevent the development of SBS-ALD via preservation of bile acid composition and FXR signaling pathways within the liver and intestine.

