prior studies of the antimicrobial activity of hd6 have mainly focused on bacteria and demonstrated that hd6 provides neither bacteriostatic nor bactericidal activity against various gram-negative and -positive bacterial strains.it was also reported that both oxidized and reduced the linear peptide that has six free cysteine thiols forms of hd6 did not exhibit activity against c. albicans in an agar plate assay in which growth inhibition zones were quantified.building upon this prior work we first conducted antifungal activity assays with native 32-residue hd6 and a single-point variant named f2a both in the oxidized form with three disulfide linkages.

incontrast no planktonic cells were detected in the untreated or f2a-treated cultures b. these results demonstrate that the population of c. albicans shifts from the biofilm to the supernatant when hd6 is present.to investigate whether the effect of hd6 on c. albicans biofilm formation is reversible we treated c. albicans with hd6 for 24 h washed the planktonic cells to remove hd6 and then resuspended the cells in fresh medium without the peptide.

neither hd6 nor f2a exhibited antifungal activity against c. albicans in either growth phase a. moreover we monitored the growth of c.albicans 30 degc 150 rpm in the presence of hd6 and f2a and these peptides had a negligible effect on the fungal growth rate under these experimental conditions b. in agreement with the prior workour studies indicate that hd6 does not exhibit antifungal activity against c. albicans.

once hd6 was removed from the culture c. albicans formed biofilms to an extent similar to that of the untreated control c. on the other hand when hd6 was added back to the culture after the wash step the amount of c. albicans biofilm was reduced to 20 relative to that of the untreated control which was comparable to the amount of biofilm formed after a single treatment with hd6.

when c. albicans hfgp3 was treated with hd6 and imaged we observed no distinct difference in the fungal morphology among untreated hd6- treated and f2a-treated cultures by dic microscopy c. moreover comparable gfp emission was observed for untreated hd6-treated and f2a-treated c. albicans indicating that the fungi underwent the transition into true hyphae in the absence and presence of hd6 c. these data indicatethat hd6 does not inhibit the fungal transition to the hyphal form.summary and conclusionsin this work we consider how a self-assembling host-defensepeptide deployed by the intestinal innate immune system mediates the virulence of the opportunistic fungal pathogen c. albicans.

fungal invasion of the host epithelium and subsequent dissemination as well as biofilm formation pose serious challenges to the host and can complicate the treatment of candidiasis and confer enhanced resistance to antifungal drugs.further studies of how hd6 prevents c. albicans adhesion and biofilm formation may lead to development of new strategies for preventing and treating candidiasis and other microbial infections.associated contents supporting informationthe supporting information is available free of charge on the at doi .table of c. albicans strains used in this study table s1 additional images of c. albicans adhesion assays with different concentrations of hd6 images of c. albicans morphology in ypd medium and additional sem images of c. albicans treated with different concen- trations of hd6 figures s1-s4 author informationcorresponding authore-mail .orcidelizabeth m. nolan fundingthis work was supported by the camille and henry dreyfus foundation the mit research support committee wade fund award and the mit undergraduate research opportunities program urop funding to i-l.c.. p.c.

hd6 monomers oligomerize into elongated structures termedreceived october 31 2016revised december 16 2016published december 27 2016c 2016 american chemical society1033doi figure 1. overview of hd6 structure and function.

b primary sequence of 32-residue hd6 secondary structure depiction regiospecific disulfide bond linkages solid black lines and the arg- glu salt bridge dashed line.nanonets that entrap bacteria in the intestinal lumenwhich prevents the bacteria from invading host epithelial cells and subsequent dissemination.on the basis of the ability of hd6 to block bacterial invasionwe questioned whether this biological function extends to fungi which are both commensals and pathogens in the gut.

we report that hd6 prevents adhesion of c. albicans to host cells and suppresses its virulence traits and demonstrate that the self- assembly of hd6 is required for these biological functions.

a 90 ml aliquot of the resulting solution was transferred to a new well and the absorbance at 550 nm was recorded using a plate reader.for the assays in which hd6 was removed during the incubation 400 ml of the c. albicans sc5314 culture in rpmi was treated with 20 mm hd6 and 100 ml of the mixture was added to each of four wells of a 96-well plate.

the phenylalanine f at position 2 of hd6 contributes to formation of a hydrophobic pocket among four hd6 monomers and hence oligomer formation.the f2a variant contains an alanine a at this position and we previously reported that this peptide cannot form higher-order oligomers and lacks functional activity against the gram-positive bacterial pathogen listeria monocytogenes.we examined the antifungal activity of these two peptides against c. albicans sc5314 in liquid culture using either mid-log- or stationary-phase cultures because the fungi exhibit different metabolic activity depending on the growth phase.

moreover disruption of the self-assembly does not confer fungicidal activity for hd6 and this observation is reminiscentfigure 2. hd6 is not fungicidal against c. albicans sc5314.

b growth curves of c. albicans sc5314 in the presence of hd6 or f2a in ypd while being shaken mean - sdm n 3. an asterisk indicates that the culture exhibited no colonies on the 10 dilution plate.of our prior study in which f2a and other oligomerization- defective hd6 variants displayed no antibacterial activity against gram-negative and gram-positive bacterial strains.hd6 prevents c. albicans from adhering to human intestinal epithelial cells.

because previous studies demonstrated that hd6 protects host cells against invasion by both gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial pathogens we evaluated whether hd6 also protects host cells from fungi.

in contrast the f2a-treated culture exhibited fungal adherence comparable to that of the untreated control  indicating that self- assembly of hd6 is required for inhibiting adhesion of thefigure 3. hd6 protects human t84 epithelial cells against adhesion ofc.

