e representative histological sections stained by may grunwald giemsa 100x magnification of mice treated with skim milk and administrated control tnbs or not heathy mice with tnbs and mice that were treated with fresh or spray-dried b. lactis inl1 and bb12 before and one day after tnbs administration.

moreover we found that both b. lactis strainsfigure 4. fresh and spray-dried b. lactis inl1 and bb12 rescued mice from chronic tnbs-induced colitis.a experimental protocol used for the mouse model of chronic colitis induced by intrarectal administrations of 3 increasing doses of tnbs 25 mgkg day 0 37.5 mgkg day 7 and 80 mgkg day 14 at one week interval while control healthy mice received only 50 etoh.

f representative histological sections stained by may-grunwald- giemsa 100x magnification of mice treated with skim milk and administrated control tnbs or not heathy mice with tnbs and mice that were treated with fresh or spray-dried b. lactis inl1 and bb12 during all the experiment.

mice were treatedwith the probiotics by daily intragastric administration 2 x 108 cfu in 200 ml 20 wv skim milk or by 20 wv skim milk control healthy mice and control tnbs for five consecutive days before colitis induction intrarectal administration of tnbs at 110 mgkg and 1 day after tnbs administration.

lactis b. lactis inl1 a probiotic strain isolated in argentina from human breast milk with the commercial strain b. animalis subsp.

email table 1. resistance of b. lactis inl-1 and b. lactis bb12 to spray drying in 20 wv skim milk.mean -sd.

lactis b. lactis inl1 and b. lactis bb12 largely described as beneficial in a number of inflammatory conditionsand study the impact of spray-drying on the anti-inflammatory functionality of both strains.resultsthe spray-drying did not decrease bacterial survival.

the mean value of moisture of the powders obtained after spray dry- ing was 3.89 - 0.09 and 4.22 - 1.59 wtwt for b. lactis inl1 and b. lactis bb12 respectively.

both b. lactis strains were able to rescue mice against acute colitis and were also able to limit the inflammation levels as confirmed by the strong decrease of gene expression for pro-inflammatory cytokines.figure 5. fresh or spray-dried b. lactis inl1 and bb12 abrogated colonic inflammatory gene expression and increased foxp3 in the chronic tnbs-induced colitis model.

as expected tnbs treatment after 48 h induction reduced body weight by 13 and induced a strong colitis highlighted both by a high macroscopic score wallace score of 5.9 - 0.6 as well as a high histological score ameho score of 5.7 - 0.2 e. both fresh cultures of b. lactis inl1 and bb12 were able to significantly protect mice from colitis as shown by a strong and significant reduction of both macroscopic p  0.01 and histological p  0.001 e scores of inflammation leading to a pro- tective effect of 53.8 and 56.8 respectively.

the latter because of the tnbs treatment exhibited a strongfigure 1. impact of the drying process on the immunomodulatory potential of b. lactis inl1 and bb12.

results indicated levels of il-10 il-12 and ifng released by bacteria-stimulated and control human pbmcs for 24 hours and levels of il-10il-12 ratio mean-sem of 5 independent experiments.the indications or  meaning p 0.05 refer to the comparison of bifidobacteria-stimulated pbmcs versus untreated cells medium control or versus l. acidophilus-stimulated pbmc  l. acidophilus effect respectively.upregulation of these pro-inflammatory genes  in comparison to control healthy mice that received only skim milk but not challenged with tnbs normalized to 1.the anti-inflammatory capacity of fresh and spray-dried forms of b. lactis inl1 and bb12 strains was confirmed in a model of chronic colitis.

we indeed observed a significant p  0.05 increase of the expression of this gene in all probiotic-treated animals in comparison to tnbs control mice 5. again spray-dried and fresh bacteria displayed the same efficacy in counteracting chronic colitis.figure 2. fresh and spray-dried b. lactis inl1 and bb12 alleviated severity of acute tnbs-induced colitis in mice.

p  0.05 p  0.01 in comparison to tnbs control samples.we also set up a model of chronic colitis induced by the administration of 3 subclinical but increasing doses of tnbs.

for acute colitis induction mice were anesthetized and received an intrarectal administration of a 50 ml solution of the hap- ten reagent tnbs sigma-aldrich france dissolved in 0.9 naclethanol 5050 vv at a final concentration of 110 mgkg while control healthy mice received only 50 etoh.the chronic model of colitis was performed by administration of 3 increasing doses of tnbs with one week interval as described in n  10 mice per each experimental group randomly co-housed in two cages per group n 5 cage.

