If we consider this an additional red arrow from the microbiome box to the endophenotype box should be added.Improve Complex TraitsMeanwhile can we do nothing to improve complex traits in livestock before having collected and analyzed all of the data mentioned above Although the above-mentioned information is needed to explain the regulation of a complex trait and this information is needed to guide the improvement of a complex trait partial information associated with a complex trait is still useful to improve the phenotype of a complex trait.

This clearly shows the power of such studies for understanding complex traits by linking the genotype and several phenome levels to the external complex trait phenotype.Although integrating less biological levels studies on human complex diseases such as metabolic syndrome also provide good examples on this .

The lack of knowledge about the existing metabolites in the tissues and how to measure them hampers the knowledge about the influence of the metabolome on complex traits but it is clear that many complex traits are influenceddetermined by the metabolome often requiring the interaction of severalmany reactions to create the best combination of metabolites for the trait.The metabolome is also influenced by the environment.

Two important questions remain 1 how can we integrate all of this knowledge to explain the regulation of the complex traits and 2 how can we use this knowledge to modulate the complex traits The answer may be that we need to start thinking of biological systems instead of a collection of genes or components.

Using all of this information we discussed a road to implement the knowledge for improvement of complex traits in livestock science.Acknowledgments The authors acknowledge the possibility to work on the manuscript given by the head of the department Lucia Kaal.Author Contributions Marinus F. W. te Pas prepared the manuscript and edited the various version of the manuscript Ole Madsen discussed the data and added parts of the text Mari A. Smits discussed the data and added parts of the text Mario P. L. Calus's discussed the data and added parts of the text.Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no conflict of interest.ReferencesFujii J. Otsu K. Zorzato F. DeLeon S. Khanna V.K.

We conclude that a detailed understanding of complex traits requires not only understanding of variation in the genome but also its expression at all functional levels.Keywords livestock science genomic variation and environment methylome transcriptome proteome metabolome phenome integration bioinformatics systems biologyThe Definition of Complex Traits in Livestock ScienceAlthough most livestock traits are found to be complex there are a few examples where a trait is caused by a single gene.

Thus genotype and environment interact to determine the complex external phenotypes of livestock.Exploring the genotype-phenotype relationship of livestock to explain the complex traits in livestock science requires investigating the genome genomic and epigenomic variation genome expression transcriptome and proteome and the genome functioning metabolome of the genes in relation to the pathways and networks that the genes are active in Figure .

Furthermore they showed that DNA methylation is associated with complex metabolic and molecular traits indicating the importance of epigenetics for complex traits.

However if genetic markers and biomarkers can be used together  and combined with additional data such as gut metabolome profiles a comprehensive analysis will be possible leading to real understanding of complex traits and establishing causal testing methods to improve complex traits of livestock .Summarizing we have described a road leading from the genotype and the environmental effects via endophenotypes towards understanding of the biological regulation of traits.

The sum of all of the genetic variations in genes and their regulatory elements changes the phenotype of complex traits.

