this antioxidant activity of plant polyphenols was consistent with their ability to abrogate lps-enhanced production of ros a. interest- ingly preconditioning of cells with a. borbonica extract caffeic acid chlorogenic acid or kaempferol also blocked the elevation of intracellular ros levels mediated by lps b. taken together these findings demonstrate the antioxidant effects of a. borbonica polyphenols on adipocytes exposed to lps and suggest the possi- ble contribution of caffeic acid chlorogenic acid and kaempferol to the beneficial action of a. borbonica polyphenol-rich extract.discussionthis study evaluated the possible benefits of a. borbonicapolyphenols on adipose cells exposed to lps from p. gingivalis ande.

results show that a. borbonica polyphenols exhibited free radical-scavenging activity as well as caffeic acid chlorogenic acid and kaempferol used as positive controls suggesting their possible contribution to a. borbonica extract antioxidant activity.anti-inflammatory effects of a. borbonica polyphenols on lps-treated adipose cellsit is well known that lps mediates pro-inflammatory effects via activation of innate immunity receptors.

preconditioning of cells with caffeic acid chlorogenic acid or kaempferol identified among a. borbonica major polyphenols led to a similar protective.curcumin-enriched fractions this provides new perspec- tives for the use of a. borbonica polyphenol-rich extract as a source of bioactive compounds with potential uses in pharmaceutical preparations.conclusionsthis study demonstrates that a. borbonica polyphenols exerted anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects on adipocytes exposed to p. gingivalis or e. coli lps.

first adipose cells were exposed to vehicle controlcoli ec lps or p. gingivalis pg lps in the presence or not of a. borbonica ab polyphenols for 24 h a. second adipose cells were pretreated with a. borbonica polyphenols or caffeic acid chlorogenic acid and kaempferol.

total polyphenol content was expressed as gallic acid equivalent g gallic acid100 g plant powder.evaluation of free radical-scavenging capacity of a. borbonica polyphenolsto assess free radical-scavenging activity of a. borbonica polyphenols the 22-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl dpph and oxy- gen radical absorbance capacity orac assays were performed according to the methods previously described briefly 0.25 mm dpph diluted in methanol was incubated with 25 um plant polyphenols.

significant differences were considered for p values 0.05.resultsidentification and free radical-scavenging capacity of a. borbonica polyphenolsuplc-ms analysis of a. borbonica polyphenol-rich extract led to identify two major groups of phenolic acids namely chloro- genic acids and dicaffeoylquinic acids which are derivatives of caffeic acid moreover kaempferol belonging to the family of flavonoids was detected under its kaempferol-o-hexoside- o-rhamnoside forms.

of note the extent of these anti-inflammatory properties varied depending on the bacterial origin of lps and the adipokine marker considered.antioxidant effects of a. borbonica polyphenols on lps-treated adipose cellsoxidative stress is reported to alter adipokine production contributing to adipose tissue chronic inflammation and obesity- related insulin resistance we evaluated the impact of a. borbonica polyphenol-rich extract on the redox status of adi- pose cells exposed to p. gingivalis or e. coli lps.

even if this dose is higher than cir- culating concentrations reaching less than 10 um in nutritionalconditions it is the pharmacological dose broadly used in the liter- ature and in our published studies concerning a. borbonica polyphenols we previously showed that they did not affect 3t3-l1 cell viability for doses ranging 25-250 um thus the biological effects of plant polyphenols used at 25 um were not related to an altered viability of adipose cells.our study demonstrates the ability of a. borbonica polyphe- nols to improve the inflammatory response of adipose cells exposed to lps.

it will be of major interest to assess a. borbonica polyphenol benefits against obesity-related metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance in vivo.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionabbreviations ab antirhea borbonica dcfh-da 27-dichlorofluorescein- diacetate dpph 22-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl ec escherichia coli erk extracel- lular signal-regulated kinase gapdh glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase il-6 interleukin-6 inos inducible nitric oxide synthase jnk c-jun n-terminal kinase lps lipopolysaccharide mapk mitogen activated protein kinase mcp-1 monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mnsod mn-dependent superoxide dis- mutase myd88 myeloid differentiation primary response 88 nfkb nuclear factor kappa b nox nadph oxidase od optical density orac oxygen radi- cal absorbance capacity pai-1 plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 pbs phosphate buffer saline pg porphyromonas gingivalis ppar-y peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor gamma ros reactive oxygen species rt-qpcr reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction tlr toll-like receptor uplc-ms ultra-high performance liquid chromatography coupled to mass spec- trometry.

borbonica polyphenols29.9 - 3.72.6 - 0.04caffeic acid53.4 - 1.15.9 - 0.2chlorogenic acid54.3 - 1.23.7 - 0.3 kaempferol38.4 - 0.50.9 - 0.1 values are means - sem of three independent experiments.polyphenol content yielding 4.0 ww gallic acid equivalent indi- cating their abundance in a. borbonica extract.

then polyphenol effects on the production of tlr- dependent intracellular signaling factors adipokines and redox markers were determined.materials and methodspreparation and composition analysis of a. borbonicapolyphenol-rich extractthe medicinal plant a. borbonica was collected in reunion island france by prof. j. smadja from the university of reunion island and its botanical identification performed by prof. d. strasberg from the university of reunion island rubiaceae run052-f voucher number.

noticeably preconditioning of cells with caffeic acid chlorogenic acid or kaempferol identi- fied among a. borbonica major polyphenols led to similar protective properties.

altogether these findings demonstrate the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of a. borbonica polyphenols on adipocytes in response to p. gingivalis or e. coli lps.

indeed periodontal disease is associated with obesity and related bacteria such as p. gingivalis from the oral cavity may contribute to the production of lps which is able to reach the adipose tissue after being released into the blood stream.this study aimed at evaluating the anti-inflammatory andantioxidant activities of a. borbonica polyphenols on 3t3-l1 adipocytes exposed to p. gingivalis lps or e. coli lps used as a positive control.

first polyphenol identification and free radical-scavenging activity assessment of a. borbonica polyphenol-rich extract were performed.

