o the original fecal samples vi vis via and vip samples collected after cultured using vi media vi media plus soluble starch vi media plus seaweed alginates and vi media plus bacterial alginates respectively.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171576.g004the capacity to stimulate the proliferating of fecal microbiota in samples bsf and txz in the bacterial alginate-added group was apparently superior than that of the other groups.

the microbial communities at the genus level were analyzed a. o original fecal samples vi vis via and vip samples collected after cultured using vi media vi media plus soluble starch vi media plus seaweed alginates and vi media plus bacterial alginates respectively.

vi vis via and vip represent samples collected after cultured using vi media vi media plus soluble starch vi media plus seaweed alginates and vi media plus bacterial alginates respectively.

the control group indicates no microbiota was inoculated fb txz cxx bsf and wys represent fecal bacteria from these volunteers that were inoculated in the batch chemostat the letters vi vis via and vip on the tlc plate represent vi media vi media plus soluble starch vi media plus seaweed alginate and vi media plus bacterial alginate respectively.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171576.g002to taxonomically classify the alginate-degrading bacteria a3 and p9 16s rrna gene uni- versal primers 27f and 1492r were used for pcr amplification and sequencing.

vi vis via and vip indicate the samples collected after culturing in vi media vi media plus soluble starch vi media plus seaweed algi- nates and vi media plus bacterial alginates respectively.

vi vis via and vip represent the samples collected after culturing in vi media vi media plus soluble starch vi media plus seaweed alginates and vi media plus bacterial alginates respec- tively.

vi vis via and vip represent the samples collected after culturing in vi media vi media plus soluble starch vi media plus seaweed alginates and vi media plus bacterial alginates respec- tively.

the degradation function of a3 and p9 on alginates was detected by using tlc a. via culture media of vi plus seaweed alginate vip culture media of vi plus p. aeruginosa alginate no bacteria were represent in the control a3 and p9 alginate-degrading bacterial strains a3 and p9 were inoculated.

box plot figures were generated using graphpad prism version 5.01. the differences between means were assessed using anova as provided in the spss 20.0 software.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171576.g006degradation of bacterial and seaweed alginates may be different b. xylanisolvens strains they harbor the same lysis genes.

seaweed alginate-degrading bacteria a3 was isolated from the plates of vi plus seaweed alginate.

briefly genomic dna was extracted by using an omega bacterial genome dna extraction kit and the 16s rrna gene was pcr amplified by using primers 27f 5'-cag agt ttg atc ctg gct-3' and 1492r 5'-agg agg tga tcc agc cgc a-3'.

the concentration of the extracted dna was determined by using a nanodrop nd-2000 nanodrop technologies usa and its integrity and size were confirmed by performing 1 agar gel electrophoresis.pcr-dgge analysisto analyze the microbial communities the v3 region of the 16s rrna gene positions 341 to 534 of the e. coli gene was analyzed using pcr-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge as described elsewhere .

dgge was performed by using a dcode universal mutation detection system bio-rad hercules usa in an 8 wtvol polyacrylamide gel containing a linear 30-to-60 denaturant gradient with a constant voltage of 200 v at 60c for 4 h. the gels were then visualized by staining with sybr green i nucleic acid sigma usa for 45 min and then washed twice with deionized water.16s rrna gene high-throughput sequencing and analysisbacterial 16s rrna genes were amplified from the extracted dna using barcoded primers 338f 5'- act cct acg gga ggc agc a-3' with 806r 5'-gga cta chv ggg twt ctaat-3'.

peaks were integrated using the gc solution software and scfa content was quantified by using the single-point internal standard method.

peak identity and internal response factors were determined using a 20-mm calibra- tion cocktail that included acetic propionic isobutyric butyric isovaleric and valeric acids.statistical analysisto compare illumina-based high-throughput sequencing data pearson correlation coefficients were analyzed using the spss software version 20.0 spss inc. usa.

