Proteins which are not absorbed or digested in the small intestine are further metabolized in the colon by the gut proteolytic bacteria which will cause an increase of urinary p-cresol concentration  an indicator of colonic p-cresol generation .

Next to phenol the main tyrosine end products of several Clostridium species are p-cresol and 4-hydroxyphenylacetate the precursor of p-cresol.

Additionally Bacteroidaceae Bifidobacteriaceae Eubacteriaceae Lachnospiraceae Porphyromonadaceae Ruminococcaceae and Veillonellaceae have the property to ferment tyrosine to p-cresol and to 4-hydroxyphenylacetate while Fusobacteriaceae only generate p-cresol Table .

demonstrated in healthy volunteers that a diet consisting of high resistant starch decreased faecal p-cresol and phenol concentrations by about 29 - 2 ugg and 1.0 - 0.1 ugg respectively however without a significant effect on urinary p-cresol concentrations .

Acarbose was shown to lower serum p-cresol concentration and urinary p-cresol excretion the latter reflecting its colonic generation rate .

Administration of AST-120 in CKD rats resulted in a decrease of serum pCS  and of p-cresol levels and a reduction of p-cresol urinary excretion .

We will especially focus on the intestinal origin of pCS and the contributing bacterial species which could be a future target to decrease levels and hence toxicity even at earlier stages of CKD aiming at slowing down the progression of the disease and decreasing the cardiovascular burden.Characteristics of p-Cresyl SulfateChemical Structure and Molecular WeightThe aromatic pCS originates from sulfation para- of the intestinally generated p-cresol MW 108.1 gmol.

Predominantly in the distal part of the colon the aromatic amino acids tyrosine and phenylalanine are converted into phenolic compounds such as phenol and p-cresol through a series of deamination transamination and decarboxylation reactions by bacterial fermentation  Figure .

p-cresol is sulfated into pCS and a small fraction is glucuronated into p-cresyl glucuronide pCG .

In many studies plasmaserum and urine levels of p-cresol are reported.

