1299table 1. source and culture conditions of yeasts isolated from the midguts of larval b. tryoniisolatehost larva idtree locationagar plateaisolate ida pda potato dextrose agar tsa tryptone soya agar ydc yeast dextrose carbonate kb king's b.materials and methodsa range of fruits infested with b. tryoni larvae were sourced from lo- cations in new south wales and from the applethorpe research facility in queensland australia .

here we demonstrate that cultivable yeasts are commonly found in the gut of b. tryoni larvae from fruit hosts.

sterile male mating perfor- mance is critical to the success of sit which may be improved through an increased understanding of nutrition and the roles ofgut microbiota in tephritid quality and performance    .numerous studies have described bacteria associated with b. tryoni in nature  but there have been no re- ports of yeasts associated with this species.

report that yeast cells were present in the crop of anastrepha ludens loew the only study to identify yeasts in the alimentary canal of tephritids.here we present the first evidence of yeasts in the midgut oflarval b. tryoni sampled from fruits and we highlight that tephritid-yeast associations is an area that could lead to improve- ments in fruit fly rearing and performance which will benefit sit programs.vc the authors 2016. published by oxford university press on behalf of entomological society of america.all rights reserved.

isolate identification was based on database sequence matches in the national center for biotechnology information ncbi non-redundant nucleotide col- lection with 99-100 identity high confidence e values of 0.0 and 100 query coverage.results and discussionthis is the first study showing that diverse cultivable yeasts are fre- quently found in the alimentary canal of wild b. tryoni larvae.

the types and prevalence of yeasts in the alimentary canal have not been demonstrated previously for any larval tephritid.yeast cells were identified in the dominant colony types isolated from 15 of 17 b. tryoni larval midguts.

vertical transmission of yeasts is possible but the reported absence of yeasts in the alimentary canal of adult b. tryoni  suggests this is unlikely.

preliminary results indicate yeasts are negligible in the midguts of domesticated b. tryoni larvae feeding on carrot diet compared to lar- vae from fruits data not shown.

further investigation of this along with whether the yeasts within the b. tryoni gut are symbionts and the host benefits conferred by different species could result in im- provements in the artificial diet of flies.consuming yeasts could be nutritionally beneficial to the lar- vae.

further characterization of tephritid-microbial symbiont interactions could advance our knowledge of the functional relationships between gut microbiota nutrition and tephritid physiology leading to improve- ments in artificial diets and consequently in the quality of mass-reared tephritid flies used in sit programs.acknowledgmentswe thank nicholas deutscher bernie dominiak cheryl jenkins leigh pilkington and phil taylor for useful comments and discussions bernie dominiak james boyce daryl cooper wei liang alicia melberg brendan missenden peter nimmo lara senior peter treloar and deane woruba for providing b. tryoni-infested fruit ossie wildman for performing the ctab dna extractions and two anonymous reviewers.

this project has been funded by horticulture innovation australia using the summerfruit industry levy with co-investment from nsw department of primary industries and funds from the australian government as part of the sitplus initiative.references citedbehar a. m. ben-yosef c. r. lauzon b. yuval and e. jurkevich.

3. crc press boca raton fl.broderick n. a. and b. lemaitre.

elsevier amsterdam netherlands.fanson b. g. and p. w. taylor.

plant health australia canberra.reynolds o. l. and b. a. orchard.

76 24-32.rosa c. a. p. b. morais m. a. lachance r. o. santos w.g.p.

