materials and methods the present study was undertaken as part of a group of studies on experimental pd and t2d in rats the additional results are presented elsewhere grauballe ostergaard schou flyvbjerg  holmstrup 2015 grauballe ostergaard schou flyvbjerg  holmstrup 2016. animalsthe present study was undertaken as part of a group of studies on experimental pd and t2d in rats and the additional results are pre- sented elsewhere 1718.four week old male zors hsdhlrzucker-lepr fafa n45 andlean controls zucker-lepr fan 17 harlan laboratories livermore usa were included.

2003. male zucker obese rats zor display a mutation in their leptin receptors and will therefore develop obesity hyperlipidemia and mild hyperglycemia.thus zucker obese rats are widely used in t2d studies chen  wang 2005.the development of high throughput molecular methods primar- ily based on analysis of the bacterial 16s rrna gene has enabled comprehensive analysis of bacterial community changes in relation to health and disease paster  dewhirst 2009. thus in the present study we used the human oral microbe identification microarray homim for analysis of ligature-associated bacterial profiles in a rat model with t2d and pd.

veterinary microbiology 127 79-88.romo-vaquero m. selma m. v. larrosa m. obiol m. garcia-villalba r. gonzalez-barrio r. ... garcia-conesa m.-t. 2014. a rosemary extract rich in carnosic acid selectively modulates caecum microbiota and inhibits beta-glucosidase activity altering fiber and short chain fatty acids fecal excretion in lean and obese female rats.

adjusted p-value0.05  adjusted p-value0.01  adjusted p-value0.05costich  gordon 1966. thus progressive bone loss in the ligature- induced pd model in rats seems to be dependent on bacterial accumu- lation and subsequent colonization which suggests that the model is suitable for studies on subgingival bacterial profiles in pd.since sterile silk 4.0 ligatures were used to induce pd disparities in frequency of ligatures being replaced and lost and variation of subgingival placement of ligatures may account for variation in pd and biofilm composition in each group.

before pd was induced all rats were examined to exclude rats with pre-existing pd defined by probing depths 0.5 mm bjornsson et al.

subcutaneous saline injections 3 times a week as placebo throughout the study.the obese rats were randomly divided into three groupsobese t2d  pd obese animals with pd.

2004 ficara levin grower  kramer 1975. recent studies have demonstrated different bacterial profiles of subgingival plaque in t2d patients with chronic pd as compared to pd patients without t2d casarin et al.

2008. it is however interesting that while trauma from the ligature obviously play a role in periodontal disease pro- gression in the pd rat model a study in germfree rats showed that no bone loss occurred in the absence of biofilm accumulation rovinfigure 2 ligature-associated bacterial profiles in ldp lean and opd t2d groups.

inflammatory bowel diseases 18 935-942.duarte p. m. tezolin k. r. figueiredo l. c. feres m.  bastos m. f. 2010. microbial profile of ligature-induced periodontitis in rats.

lean normoglycemic control rats non-t2d  pd lpd n17 control animals with pd.

2007. thus subgingival placement of the liga- ture increases biofilm formation and a direct comparison between liga- ture-induced pd in rats and naturally occurring pd in humans is not possible graves et al.

however since few to none methods are developed specifi- cally for analysis of rat-associated bacteria this might be the most fea- sible and cost-effective choice even though the composition of theoral biofilm in rats with experimental pd is likely different from that of humans with pd.

animal models with both t2d and pd have increased inflammatory cytokine responses elevated oxidative stress raised age levels altered glucose metabo- lism and increased severity of pd pontes andersen flyvbjerg buschard  holmstrup 2007. in addition to being a local irritant the ligature serves as a reservoir for bacteria which mediates peri- odontal tissue destruction bjornsson et al.

opd n15 subcutaneous saline injections 3 times a week as placebo throughout the study.obese t2d  pd  etn anti-tnf-a obese animals with pd.

opde n15 subcutaneous injections of 0.5 ml of 0.78 mgml etn wyeth glostrup denmark 3 times a week throughout the study.obese t2d  pd  ara anti-rage obese animals with pd.

