In CF patients probiotics have been shown not only to restore intestinal flora and increase bacterial diversity but also to cause simulta- neous reduction in markers of inflammation faecal calprotectin and rectal nitric oxide production    .Recent studies indicate that intestinal bacterial dysbiosis is associated with a reduction in anti-inflammatory short-chain fatty acids SCFA e.g.

A high intestinal fat environ- ment as a result of a malabsorbed intestinal load and high- fat intake recommended to CF patients may contribute by selecting for SCFA-degrading bacteria.

Further studies investigating the impact of ivacaftor and lumacaftor as well as future therapies currently in the pipeline individually and incombination therapy on intestinal inflammation and dysbiosis in CF patients are required.There may be a role for microbial modulation in treating intestinal inflammation.

Disrupted intestinal microbiota and intestinal inflammation in children with cystic fibrosis and its restoration with Lactobacillus GG a randomised clinical trial.

Intestinal permeability was increased in CF patients with PI compared with healthy controls  .As a result of CF-related manifestations and complications patients are commonly exposed to medications that could po- tentially affect the intestinal environment including acid blockers commonly prescribed to aid digestion or treat gastro- esophageal reflux and antibiotics  .

The first study evaluating intestinal inflammation in patients with CF performed whole gut lavage fluid analysis this study showed increased concentrations of albumin IgG IgM IL- 1b IL-8 neutrophil elastase and eosinophil cationic protein in CF patients with PI compared with healthy controls .

Another inflammato- ry biomarker rectal nitric oxide is also elevated in CF patients compared with healthy controls  .In the only invasive study to date duodenal biopsies from 14 CF patients with PI exhibited normal intestinal morpholo- gy.

The study reported presence of dif- fuse or localised small bowel lesions including intestinal er- ythema mucosal breaks and oedema in the jejunum and ileum in 20 of 28 71 patients with PI and 6 of 13 47 patients with pancreatic sufficiency PS.

20091192613-22. doi.Gelfond D Ma C Semler J Borowitz D. Intestinal pH and gastro- intestinal transit profiles in cystic fibrosis patients measured by wireless motility capsule.

Evidence of intestinal inflammation in patients with cystic fibrosis.

