labeled means without a common letter differ p0.05.figure 2. butyrate and fba treatments reduced body weight gain lipid gain and energy efficiency in diet induced obese mice.gross intake a fecal energy b metabolisable energy intake c body weight gain d lipid gain e lipid gainmetabolisable energy intake f energy expenditure g and efficiency h protein gain i and protein gainmetabolisable energy intake j were measured in std hfd and hfd animals treated with butyrate or fba.

labeled means without a common letter differ p0.05.254x338mm 300 x 300 dpifigure 2. butyrate and fba treatments reduced body weight gain lipid gain and energy efficiency in diet induced obese mice.gross intake a fecal energy b metabolisable energy intake c body weight gain d lipid gain e lipid gainmetabolisable energy intake f energy expenditure g and efficiency h protein gain i and protein gainmetabolisable energy intake j were measured in std hfd and hfd animals treated with butyrate or fba.

energy balance assessments were conducted over the 18 weeks of feeding by the comparative carcass evaluation 26. the gross energy density for the std or hfd 15.8 or 21.9 kjg respectively as well as the energy density of the faeces and the carcasses were determined by bomb calorimetric parr adiabatic calorimetric parr instrument co. moline il usa.

metabolizable energy me intake was determined by subtracting the energy measured in faeces and urine from the gross energy intake which was determined from the daily food consumption and gross energy density.

energy efficiency was calculated as the percentage of body energy retainedper me intake and energy expenditure was determined as the difference between me intake and energy gain.mitochondrial parameters and basal and inducible proton leakmitochondrial isolation oxygen consumption and proton leakage measurements were performed as previously reported 27. oxygen consumption polarographically measured using a clark-type electrode was measured in the presence of substrates and adp state 3 or with substrates alone state 4 and respiratory control ratiorcr was calculated.

finally the shift of mitochondrial dynamic toward fusion by butyrate and fba resulting in the improvement not only of mitochondrial cell energy metabolism but also of glucose homeostasis.in conclusion butyrate and its more palatable synthetic derivative fba modulating mitochondrial function efficiency and dynamic can be considered a new therapeutic strategy to counteract obesity and insulin resistance.obesity is a major risk factor for insulin resistance ir and type 2 diabetes due to an imbalance between energy consumption and expenditure that leads to lipid accumulation 1. the excessive energy intake and particularly the inadequate fat processing may evoke complex biochemical processes such as inflammation oxidative stress and impairment of mitochondrial function 2. liver plays a central role in the development of obesity-associated metabolic alterations.

indeed we have previously demonstrated that a synthetic more palatable derivative of butyrate n- 1-carbamoyl-2-phenyl-ethyl butyramide fba improves glucose homeostasis and hepatic steatosis in rats fed high fat diet hfd showing a comparable efficacy of butyrate 21. here we have we have comparatively evaluated the effects of sodium butyrate butyrate and fba on liver glucose metabolism and mitochondrial function efficiency and dynamic in a mice model of obesity and ir.research design and methodsethics statementall procedures involving animals and their care were conducted in conformity with international and national law and policies eu directive 201063eu for animal experiments arrive guidelines and the basel declaration including the 3r concept and were approved by the institutional committee on the ethics of animal experiments csv of the university of naples federico ii and by the italian ministry of health under protocol no.20130040360.diets and drugsstandard diet std had 17 from fat without sucrose while high fat diet hfd purchased from harlan had 45 of energy derived from fat 7 of sucrose.

at the onset of the study mice were fed either std or 45 high fat diet hfd harlan teklad  93075. twelve weeks after hfd mice were divided into three experimental groups n7 as following hfd fed animals hfd-fed mice treated by gavage with butyrate hfdbutyrate 100 mgkgdie or with fba hfdfba 212.5 mgkgdie the equimolecular dose of sodium butyrate.

moreover we found that hfd-treated animals exhibited an increase in body lipids percentage and energy that was partially reverted by butyrate and to a higher extent by fba figure 1d and f. no variation was observed in body protein content figure 1e.all groups on hfd showed a similar energy intake data not shown however when this parameter is reported as kj100g miceweek fig.

fecal energy decreased in all hfd groups figure 2b and no difference was reported in urine energy among all groups data not shown.

butyrate and fba showed a significant reduction in energy efficiency compared to hfd mice figure 2h and a significant increase in energy expenditure figure2g.

no modification was shown in protein gain or protein gainme intake figure 2i and j.taken together these data indicate that butyrate and fba treated mice had an improved capability to utilize fat as metabolic fuel.butyrate and its derivative fba modulated serum and hepatic inflammatory markers and metabolic parametersserum triglycerides cholesterol and alt were significantly increased by the hfd compared to std and reduced by butyrate and fba figure 3a and b. similarly hormonal profile altered by hfd was improved by both butyrate-based treatment as shown by leptin and adiponectin serum levels figure 3c and d. the increased pro-inflammatory serum markers such as tnf-a mcp-1 and il-1b were significantly reduced in butyrate-treated animals and even more by fba figure 3e-g. consistently the highest endotoxemia found in hfd mice was reduced by both treatments figure 3h.

interestingly mitochondrial protein contents calculated as the ratio between citrate synthase activity in the homogenate and isolated mitochondria was significantly lower in hfd compared to all groups and butyrate and even more fba significantly increased this parameter figure 5d.in mitochondrial basal conditions or after free fatty acid ffa stimulation hfd showed the lowest proton leak that was increased by butyrate and fba compared to std and hfd figure 5e and f.in particular mice treated with both formulations exhibited the highest oxygen consumption to maintain the same membrane potential among the groups figure 5e.

as index of ir homa-ir homeostasis model assessment was calculated homafasting glucose mmol l-1 x fasting insulin uu ml-1 22.5. in another set of experiments one week before killing in overnight fasted mice ogtt was measured as previously described 25.body composition and energy balancebody weight and food intake were monitored daily to obtain body weight gain and gross energy intake.

analyses were performed using graphpad prism graphpad software san diego ca usa.resultsbutyrate and fba reduced lipid accumulation lowering body energy efficiency and increasing energy expenditurethe mean body weight of all mice groups measured during the whole experimental period is shown in figure 1a.

