however the simultaneous use of all 3 amplification mixes with the selected combination of primers pro- vided an acceptable rate of positivity 98. furthermore internal negative and positive controls were always satisfied in all the assays performed by the rls using the different instruments.ngs analysisto confirm the presence of the specific gut microbiota on the pos- itive samples and exclude accidental contaminations or real-time pcr artifacts samples identified as positive were tested by ngs whenever sufficient dna was available for a total of 48 positive samples analyzed.

false negatives were considered all those samples testing negative in used andor not fully sanitized devices false positives were all those samples testing pos- itive in unused andor fully sanitized devices.ngs analysisngs samples were prepared according to the 16s metagenomic sequencing library preparation guide part 15044223 rev a illumina san diego ca.

regard- ing the used devices 98 resulted clearly positives and only 1 sample was not amplifiable by any indicator in any of the multiplex am- plification mixes sample 10 s. the majority of samples collected from fully reprocessed colonoscopy devices resulted in clear nega- tives 90.4 whereas in 5 samples mfdna traces were detected at least 2 markers in at least 2 amplification mixes suggesting atable 1multicentric survey summary.

testing of colonoscopy devices by the microflora dna real-time polymerase chain reaction methodusedreprocessedtotaltotal samples5952111positive samples58563negative samples14748at least 1 positive indicator cycle threshold  33 in at least 2 mixes.possible failure in reprocessing samples 23p 26p 28p 31p and 43p.no single microbial indicator could explain all the observed pos- itive samples but the combination of the different target genes for the selected microbial markers produced satisfying results.

initially raw in-field data provided acceptable but lower values for sensibility 92. however not all true-positive samples were confirmed by microbiology and or ngs as clean and fully reprocessed samples.

all laboratories successfully applied the pro- tocol performing dna extraction and real-time amplification of spiked samples and obtaining consistent results with ct values ranging from 11.0-15.1 mean 13.2 - 1.7. an additional interlaboratory test was performed comparing the amplification outputs obtained by amplifying the dna standard controls using different pcr instruments.

severalbacteroides genus was most represented reads 13.7-68.2 mean 33.3 - 15.3 with the exception of some samples dominated by enterococcus genus 6s 22s 39s 41s and 5s mean 83.5 - 10.1 in agreement with real-time pcr data.

next-generation sequencing ngs analysis on selected mfdna samples was carried out to confirm the molecular data.

each rl performed dna extraction and amplification as well as sam- pling and processing of their own samples.

the rl received all supplementary materials for processing the samples including dna extraction kits qiamp dna mini kit and dneasy blood  tissue kit qiagen hilden germany nao nucleic acids optimizer basket copan italia lysozyme solution and glass beads 1 spiked sample as an internal positive control the microsan-f kit mdd university spin off viterbo italy containing standardized amplification mix with aliquots of positive and negative controls and the protocol.

samples were collected using aseptic techniques in a dedicated room.

in addition to routine moni- toring randomly selected additional samples n  40 were also collected to be analyzed by classic microbiology following centers for disease control and prevention and european society of gas- trointestinal endoscopy and european society of gastroenterology and endoscopy nurses and associates esge-esgena protocols.briefly the swabs were vortexed for 5 minutes in 10 ml sterile phos- phate buffered saline and an aliquot of 1 ml was inoculated onto tryptic soy agar total microbiology count violet red bile dex- trose agar enterobacteriaceae and baird-parker agar staphylococci and plates were incubated aerobically at 37degc for 24-48 hours.

the comparison of the protocols and the optimization tests were performed preparing mock contaminated swabs about 104 cfu using a solution from fecal samples or a pure culture of enterococ- cus faecalis atcc 7080.protocol 1 has been described elsewhere but appeared too labor- and time-consuming for routine surveillance.

dna elution was completed in 60 ml elution solution 10 mm trishydroxymethylaminomethane-hydrochloride and 0.5 mm ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid at ph 9.0.preparation of spiked samples for interlaboratory validationthe 5 rls participated in an internal survey to validate the adopted approach.

the spiked samples consisted of 100 ml fresh bacterial suspension of e faecalis corresponding to 105 cfu spotted on nylon swabs and sent from the coordinating laborato- ry unit to each rl.

