however p. intermedia was showed a statisti- cal difference between the case group and control group with positive rate of 94.73 in cases and 31.58 in controls p0.01 t. forsythia was detected in 63.16 of case group and 26.31 of control group with a significant difference p0.05.at t2 the frequencies of pathogens in the case group were 89.50 for a. actinomycetemco- mitans 73.68 for p. gingivalis 52.63 for p. intermedia 47.39 for t. forsythia and no sig- nificant difference between the two groups p0.05.

all parameters were reassessed after 1 month t1 and 3 months t2 in the case group and compared with that of the controls.resultsat baseline t0 clinical parameters including gi pd sbi of the test sites in the case group were significantly higher than that of the control group p0.05 or p0.01.

the funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors declare nobackgroundfixed orthodontic treatment is the most common method for malocclusion but has the potential risk of periodontal complication with unclear outcomes of whether microbiologic and clinical changes could be reversible in adolescents after orthodontic therapy.methodstwenty adolescents with orthodontic treatment were enrolled in the study as the case group at end of the therapy while 19 periodontally healthy adolescents were involved in the control group.

the average value of mean and standard deviation sd of four pathogens a. actinomycetemcomitans p. gingivalis p. intermedia and t. forsythia in gingivitis or mild periodontitis group and health control group were calculated and transformed in logarithmic form .sample size was determined by pass 2008 power analysis and sample size v08.0.3.

a two-sided two sample t test was used with the following assumptions a of 0.05 power of 80 differences in mean amount and standard deviation of periodontopathogens between case group and control group using information from previous studies- .

finally a minimum of 18 subjects in each group were predicted to detect the difference in the counts of pathogens.subjectssubjects of both case and control groups were recruited from department of orthodontics jinan stomatological hospital during june 2015- october 2015. the case group consisted of 20 adoles- cent subjects 8 males and 12 females mean age 14.42-0.86 years who underwent fixed ortho- dontic therapy for 17.9 months to 22.9 monthsmean timing 20.07-1.57 months from july 2013 to september 2015 without clinical signs of gingivitis or periodontitis before orthodontic therapy.

there was no significant change for a. actinomycetemcomitans p. gingivalis and t. forsythia over time from t0 to t2 p0.05 while the significant decreases were noticed for p. intermedia p0.01 from t0 to t2.detection of clinical specimensthe absolute bacterial counts log10 transformed from copy numbers of p. gingivalis p. inter- media a. actinomycetemcomitans t. forsythia and total bacteria were quantified in both groups of clinical specimens containing 19 samples of case group and 19 samples of control group.

at baseline t0 all clinical parameters including gi pd sbi in case group were found significantly higher than those in control group p0.01 .

however pd was still higher in case group than that in control group p0.01.discussionthe previous studies on the periodontal pathogens of orthodontic patients mostly focused on the prevalence of pathogens using regular pcr with very little information on the exact quantitative variation.

furthermore at t2 pd in case group was still higher than control group which provide a favorable environment for the colonization and maturation of p. intermedia.

the prevalence and counts of periodontopathogens tend to be normal p0.05 while pd and the amount of p.interme- dia were still significantly higher compared with that of the control group p0.05 or p0.01.conclusionafter removal of appliances the periodontal changes induced by orthodontic therapy are only partially reversible at 3 months after removal.conflict of interest.

the control group was comprised of 19 periodontally healthy individuals without receiving ortho- dontic therapy 9 males and 10 females mean age 14.24-0.62 years  matched for age and sex according to the following criteria 1 no smoking 2 no known systemic disease 3 noalveolar bone loss visible on x-ray 4 no fixed restorations or removal dentures 5 no use ofantibiotics within 3 months before the study 6 no periodontal therapy within the previous 6 months.

in the case group measurements were made at three time points baseline t0  before appli- ances removal t1  one month after removal and t2  three months after removal.periodontal examination and sample collection were performed by the same orthodontist.

the significance for all statistical tests was predetermined at p0.05.resultsthere was no statistical difference in the sex and age of the members of the two groups p0.05 .specificity of the real-time pcr primersto determine the specificity of the qpcr primers the recombinant plasmid dna of the four target bacteria were tested with the five pairs of primers individually displaying that all spe- cies-specific primers could only amplify the correct target dna and no cross-reactivity was observed while the universal primes for all the bacteria could amplify the four bacteria of p. gingivalis p. intermedia a. actinomycetemcomitans t. forsythia.prevalence of subgingival microorganisms in case and control group.

at baseline a. actinomycetem- comitans and p. gingivalis was detected in 89.50 and 94.73 of cases respectively with no difference from that of control group p0.05.

