this study provides the first data on the microbiota living inside the gut of the larvae of m. dusmeti as well as the microbiota in the hollow where these larvae develop.

the filter-feeding mechanism characteristic of m. dusmeti larvae is selective in enabling ingestion of bacteria only above 2.1 mm in diameter.key words bacteria-insect association filter-feeder larvae vulnerable hoverfly mallota dusmeti quercus rotundifoliasaproxylic organisms are dependent on dead or dying wood sap wood-inhabiting fungi or other saproxylic species during some part of their life cycle  .

to extract microbiota saprophagous syrphid larvae possess the typical filtering mechanism of cyclorrhaphan diptera larvae the cibarial or pharyngeal ridges  which en- able separation of particulate food from a fluid suspension .cibarial ridges are a series of up to 10 longitudinal somewhat parallel t- or y-shaped ridges that run along the floor of the phar- ynx contained within the basal sclerite of the head skeleton.

for permissions please email 137their feeding and locomotion these larvae accelerated the rate of decay of dead cactus tissue o. whether syrphid larvae similarly affect rates of decay in tree hollows is un- known.

these saprophagous syrphid larvae are filter feeders   and the hypothesis is that the larvae of m. dusmeti may feed on the bacteria in the tree hollows.

the liquid substrate was collected at the same level as the live larvae and was kept in sterile containers 100 ml at 4oc.identification preservation and measurementthe collected larvae were immediately stored in the field at 4oc and transported to the laboratory where they were killed and preserved by freezing -80oc and then dissected.

in order to make the identi- fication of the larvae to the species level easier dissected specimens were preserved by placing larvae in water and heating slowly for about 4 min and then fixed separately in kaad solution followingfig.

it causes lesions on the trunk bark of quercus species intable 1. bacteria species found within intestinal tract of the larvae of m. dusmeti and their liquid breeding media from tree hollowsspecies of bacteria found  identityintestinal tractcamp cab breeding media intestinal tract of the larvaef foregut m midgut h hindgut codes corresponding to each part of intestinal tract of the larvae of m. dusmeti.

developing on them are the larvae of mallota dusmeti andre' u 1926 diptera syrphidae a vulnerable species iucn cate- gory marcos-garcia and quinto .

dusmeti larvae bacillus cereus bacillus toyonensis and lysinibacillus sphaericus.

our previous studies in the mediterranean iberian peninsula have shown that old trees maintain particular habitat islands tree hol- lows considered one of the most important microhabitats for the conservation of these species of insects  ia  o   .in most of the world's forests species of diptera syrphidae can be found whose larvae develop in water-filled tree hollows or rotholes .

the main sources of food for larvae of these syrphids are rich communities of microbiota associated with their development sites   walker et al.

ingested microbial suspensions are pressed against the cibarial ridges through which liquid passes while microbiota are retained that are too large to pass through the gaps between the ridges .however relationships between saprophagous syrphid larvae and microbiota associated with development sites are poorly known  .

o analyzed feeding in larvae of the syrphid genus copestylum macquart in decaying tissues of the columnar cactus isolatocereus dumortieri scheidw.

special permis- sion to collect these vulnerable larvae was obtained from the re- spective managing authorities.at each locality 30 tree hollows of quercus spp.

