for example the cyanobacterial component of biofilm can contribute 80 of the primary production in a system whereas other biofilm components such as hetero- trophic bacteria employ complex metabolic pathwaysthat can quickly remediate harmful substances the composition of biofilm is radically transformed by alterations in stream conditions  with deterioration directly impacting the aquatic food base such that ram- ifications are quickly translated into higher trophic levels although biofilm communities play a major role in the dynamics of stream ecosystems they have been traditionally difficult to monitor due largely to a time-consuming process of optical identification coupled with an inability to initiate andor sustain la- boratory cultures for identification molecular advances have now largely ameliorated these issues by facilitating identification and quantification of bacterial constituents in the biofilm community.

our results could then be evaluated against biofilm communities recorded within other shale play studies as well as those utilizing non- microbial indicators within the fayetteville shale  in addition to assaying for potential effects of fracking on stream biofilm communities other potential anthropogeniceffects that drive biofilm communities such as agriculture silviculture urbanization etc.

microbial communities are also extraordinarily diverse composed of numerous rare otus and display a rapid response to changes in temperature ph and stream metabolism  this also provoke taxonomic turnover in stream biofilm communities as an ecosystem-scale response  given this stream biofilm communities can be employed to only to gauge ecosystem health but also its potential im- pacts on humankind .

although our multivariate analyses did not provide statistical probabilities within a hypothesis- testing framework they more easily depicted the disparity within- and among-groups as promoted by watershed land use and water chemistry.the variability in biofilm communities among study sites having established the environmental context for our sampling sites by group we could then contrast their biofilm communities fig.

unfortunately the breadth and depth of biofilm communities are also confounding factors that can limit diagnostic and taxonomic projections par- ticularly with regard to bioremediation.region specific issues also predominate for example biofilm communities are quite sensitive to changes in landuse this is important in that both the fayetteville and barnett shale catchments display pre-existing anthropo- genic disturbances that can easily confound more focused analyses regarding the impacts of ung-activity.

biofilm communities at picz-sites were significantly less variable than those at micz-sites.conclusions study streams differed by group according to morphology land use and water chemistry but not in biofilm community structure.

in this sense a reduction in carbon sources would be an ecological explanation for the observed reduction in species richness at these sites although this was not stated as such.the richness and evenness of species within biofilm communitiesin our study the species richness evenness and num- ber of otus in biofilm communities were not signifi- cantly different when compared between micz- and picz-sites.

suspensions were transferred to individual centrifuge tubes and pelleted by centrifugation 8000 g for 20 min with biofilm quantified via wet weight mg. standard laboratory protocols were used for all procedures to prevent sample contamination.dna from pelleted biofilm was extracted for all 16 samples 2 per site using a mobio commercial kit powerbiofilmr dna isolation kit following manufac- turer's instructions.

bmc microbiology 2017 1729doi 10.1186s12866-017-0926-5do biofilm communities respond to the chemical signatures of fracking a test involving streams in north-central arkansaswilson h. johnson1 marlis r. douglas1 jeffrey a. lewis1 tara n. stuecker1 franck g. carbonero2 bradley j. austin1 michelle a. evans-white1 sally a. entrekin3 and michael e. douglas1abstractbackground unconventional natural gas ung extraction fracking is ongoing in 29 north american shale basins 20 states with 6000 wells found within the fayetteville shale north-central arkansas.

furthermore the advent of high-throughput dna sequencing technologies has improved accuracy and reduced costs  making community characterization an attractive procedure with which to gauge ecosystem health.a molecular genetic approach was utilized in the current study to assay biofilm communities of selected streams within a 932-km2 region of fayetteville shale located in the boston mountains of northwest arkansas fig.

previous studies have assessed the potential impacts of fracking in these streams by focusing on either stream metabolism or the presenceabsence of aquatic insects as bioindicator species the objectives of this study were to characterize and compare the biofilm communities at sampling sites a priori characterized by fracking impacts.

it also allowed us the opportunity to test if potential fracking effects could be parsed from those engendered by other anthropogenic activities.resultsbiofilm collectionto understand the potential effects of fracking on stream microbial communities we collected biofilm at eight stream sites.

probability represents the statistical significance of each f-value as determined by bonferroni adjusted alpha  0.025 with significance indicated by anaboundaries of the pool extracted dna and used illumina sequencing to evaluate a 16s rdna molecular marker that delimits representative biofilm communities.

the biofilm samples 2site n  16 averaged 153 mgsample wet weight with significantly greater amounts from down- stream sections of pools as compared to those upstream average lower  174.4 mg average upper  131.1 mg f  7.09 p  0.011 one-way anova dna concentra- tion per sample averaged 39.8 ngml and did not differ by site or pool location results not shown.univariate analyses of site hydrology land use and stream chemistrywe characterized ten variables at each site so as to determine whether our designated groups differed with regard to environmental or anthropogenic factors that could in turn affect microbial communities.

probability represents the statistical significance of each f-value as determined by bonferroni adjusted alpha  0.017 with significance indicated by anadid not differ by group at the adjusted bonferroni- probability level.microbial community compositionwe performed illumina sequencing of a 16s rdna marker as a means of identifying and quantifying micro- bial biofilm communities at each site.

