articlethe bactericidal lectin regiiib prolongs gut colonization and enteropathy in the streptomycin mouse model for salmonella diarrheagraphical abstracthighlightsd regiiib prolongs the duration of salmonella diarrhea in the streptomycin mouse modeld regiiib alters the composition of the gut microbiota and colonic metabolismd supplementation with bacteroides acidifaciens promotes remission of salmonella diarrhead the gut microbiota-derived vitamin b6 may be a key factor forsalmonella gut infectionauthorstsuyoshi miki ryosuke goto mayuka fujimoto nobuhiko okada wolf-dietrich hardtcorrespondencein brief gut infection with enteropathogens elicits expression of the antimicrobial regiiib lectin.

2017 cell host  microbe 21 195-207 february 8 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. cell host  microbearticlethe bactericidal lectin regiiib prolongs gut colonization and enteropathy in thestreptomycin mouse model for salmonella diarrheatsuyoshi mikiryosuke gotomayuka fujimotonobuhiko okadaand wolf-dietrich hardt 1department of microbiology school of pharmacy kitasato university 5-9-1 shirokane minato-ku 108-8641 tokyo japan 2the institute of microbiology department of biology eth zueurrich vladimir-prelog weg 4 8093 zurich switzerland3lead contactcorrespondence summarythe bactericidal lectin regiiib is inducibly produced by intestinal epithelial cells as a defense against infection by enteropathogens.

in the gut lumen regiiib kills not only certain enteropathogens but also some commensal bacteria thus regiiib is also thought to be an innate immune effector shaping microbiota composition and establishing in- testinal homeostasis.

we found that this lectin affects the composition of the micro- biota community the gut luminal metabolite profile and disease kinetics.resultspathogen clearance and remission are accelerated in regiiib-- mice in the streptomycin mouse model for salmonella diarrheawe first investigated whether regiiib is required for induction of acute colitis in the streptomycin-treated murine salmonella diar- rhea model .

these results sug- gest that regiiib either directly or indirectly promotes sustained gut luminal colonization by s. tm and that deficiency of regiiib accelerates s. tm clearance from the gut.s.

however the causal link between regiiib deficiency reduced pathogen loads and the reduced inflammation remains to be established.induced expression of regiiib alters the composition of microbiota in the inflamed gutthe composition and density of the microbiota play a critical role ins.

to this end comparative micro- biota analysis of the colon content of wt and regiiib-- mice was performed by 16s rrna gene pyrosequencing a. no significant differences in microbiota composition were observed between unperturbed wt and regiiib-- mice.

in contrast 2 days after infection the proportion of bacteroidetes was markedly higher in regiiib-- mice than in the wt mice a. interest- ingly the proportion of bacteroidetes remained higher in the regiiib-- mice than in the wt controls until the end of the exper- iment at day 10 p.i.

this provided a first hint that one or more of these microbiota members may contribute to the accelerated disease resolution and pathogen elimination from the gut lumen of regiiib-- mice.regiiib can kill bacteroides spp.we speculated that regiiib may affect bacteroides mib ore. rectale in vivo.

to this endabcdeffigure 1. impaired colonization of s. tmatt in regiiib-- micea-f streptomycin-treated c57bl6 mice wt or regiiib-- mice n  10 were infected with s. tmatt dspibkan by gavage.

ns not significant p r 0.05 p 0.05 p  0.01 mann-whitney u test.the microbiota from regiiib-- mice was exposed to regiiib or polymyxin b for 30 min at 37oc.

ns not significant p r 0.05 p  0.05 one sample t test.recombinant regiiib 200 mg or buffer control was infused into isolated colonic segment from regiiib-- mice.

which is a major member of mi- crobiota in the gut and investigated their susceptibility to regiiib in vitro andor in vivo.we examined whether regiiib can kill bacteroides spp.

the gut commensal bacteria from feces of untreated regiiib-- mice were isolated and exposed to purified recombinant regiiib proteins.

purified recombinant regiiib or buffer control was infused into isolated colonic segments of regiiib-- mice.

