Intriguingly the phenotype of the nitrate reductase-deficient mutant was significantly smaller than the phenotype of the DmoaA mutant 6.3-fold versus 31- fold raising the possibility that other MoCo-dependent enzymes might contribute to growth of E. coli in the inflamed gut.The E. coli genome harbors two DMSO reductases encoded by the dmsABC and ynfFGH operons and three TMAO reduc- tases encoded by the torCAD torYZ and yedYZ operons   Figure S1F.

Formate in the Intestinal Lumen Is Microbiota DerivedA and B Germ-free Swiss Webster mice were pre-colonized for 3 days with E. coli alone E. coli and B. thetaiotaomicron or E. coli and a fecal transplant from a healthy conventionally raised mouse.

Formate Oxidation Contributes to the Expansion of the E. coli Population during ColitisSPF C57BL6 mice were pre-colonized with an equal mixture of the E. coli Nissle 1917 EcN wild-type strain WT and the isogenic DfdnG fdoG mutant.

The E. coli inoculum consisted of an equal mixture of the E. coli Nissle 1917 EcN wild-type strain WT and the DfdnG fdoG mutant.

We generated a mutant lacking the major subunit DcydA mutant as well as a mutant lacking both CydAB and formate dehydrogenase activity DcydA DfdnG fdoG mutant.

Furthermore the D8 mutant out- competed the DmoaA mutant 7-fold A and S4A prompting us to investigate MoCo-dependent enzymes other than terminal reductases.Respiratory Formate Dehydrogenases Enhance Fitness of E. coli in the Inflamed IntestineE.

p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001 ns not statistically significant.To directly test the idea that formate dehydrogenases promote fitness of E. coli in the inflamed gut we generated an EcN mutant lacking FDN and FDO activity DfdnG fdoG mutant.

Formate Dehydrogenases Enhance Growth of E. coli in the Inflamed Gut A and B SPF C57BL6 mice treated with 3 DSS for 4 days were intragastrically inoculated with an equal mixture of the indicated E. coli wild-type WT strains and isogenic mutants.

To exclude the possibility that formate utilization is a unique property of EcN we analyzed the lab-adapted E. coli strain K-12 as well as the Adherent Invasive E. coli strain AIEC NRG857c   originally isolated from an IBD patient A S5C and S5D.

ArticleMicrobial Respiration and Formate Oxidation as Metabolic Signatures of Inflammation-Associated DysbiosisGraphical AbstractHighlightsd Genes encoding respiratory pathways are overrepresented in the dysbiotic microbiomed Utilization of microbiota-derived formate enhances E. colifitness in the inflamed gutd Formate concentrations in the gut are elevated during inflammation-associated dysbiosisd During gut inflammation formate utilization by E. coli requires oxygen respirationAuthorsElizabeth R. Hughes Maria G. Winter Breck A. Duerkop ... Renato L. Santos Lora V. Hooper Sebastian E. WinterCorrespondenceIn BriefIntestinal inflammation is associated with changes in the microbiota composition dysbiosis such as the expansion of the commensal Enterobacteriaceae population.

