am j clin nutr 62 1424s-1426s.13 riso p. visioli f. grande s. guarnieri s. et al.

nutr res 34 907-929.17 linnewiel k. ernst h. caris-veyrat c. ben-dor a. et al.

j am coll nutr 14 614-620.24 bohn t. blackwood m. francis d. tian q. et al.

2016 lycopene-induced nuclear hormonereceptor signalling in inflammation and lipid metabolism via still unknown endogenous apo-10'-lycopenoids.int j vitam nutr res in press.28 aydemir g. kasiri y. birta e. beke g. et al.

j nutr 145 1740-1747.34 borel p. desmarchelier c. nowicki m. bott r. et al.

it rather appears that our understandingof carotenoid bioavailability and bioactivity especially regarding the active compounds and possiblydose-related aspects is incomplete it can be hypothesized that carotenoids administered at highdoses supplements may override the body's metabolism capacity increasing the ratio of nativecompounds to metabolites resulting in more pro-oxidant and pro-inflammatory conditions.indeed several studies have suggested that b-carotene oxygenase 12 bco12 cleavagemetabolites due to their enhanced electrophilic properties with improved binding ability to cysteineresidues of nf-kb and nrf2 and higher solubility in the cytosol are better alterators of thesepathways resulting in anti-inflammatory effects and stimulating the bodies' own antioxidant system17.

10-20 mg 20 have in part been related to pro-oxidative effects insome though not all studies as reviewed earlier 16. for example in some cellular trialsconcentrations of 1 um of all-trans retinoic acid atra a potential metabolite of b-carotenehave been associated with pro-oxidative effects 21 as opposed to lower nutritionally plausibleconcentrations 1 um 16. earlier results in smoke-exposed ferrets 22 have likewise suggestedarbitrary effects at high vs. low concentrations of b-carotene 0.4 vs. 2.4 mgkg bw.

4500 participants showing that plasma b-carotene in elderlymen was associated with an overall reduced total mortality of almost 30. though the mechanismsof action remained unclear at the time it was speculated that carotenoid antioxidant capacityinvolving quenching of free radicals such as of lipid peroxides was likely to be associated with theobserved effects 7.67intervention trials with carotenoid supplements - hard endpointsthese positive findings and related antioxidant activity seen in many in vitro trials 8 sparked anumber of large-scale supplementation trials especially with b-carotene.

also in this respect more is known for other phytochemicals such as for polyphenols32 but little on carotenoids.when highlighting potential dose effects it is also important to stress out inter-individualdifferences in dose-responses possibly related to genetic differences such as single nucleotidepolymorphisms snps altering carotenoid metabolism and bioavailability 33 34. possibly alsoepigenetic differences do play a role however no information on this is available.finally several aspects of potential carotenoid metabolism have never been investigated.

doses 1 um cells 2 mgkg animals10 mgd humans higher doses 1 um cells 2 mgkg animals  30 mgd humans rosderivatives bco12rosfigure 1. potential interrelation between carotenoid exposure oxidative stress inflammation and toxicological relevant pathwayspattern fill.higher carotenoid concentrations depending on carotenoid type organism bioavailability etc.

similarly in a study with over70000 female participants dietary intake of a- and b-carotene was significantly associated with areduced risk 25 and 20 respectively of coronary artery disease when comparing quintiles ofhighest vs. lowest intake 5. a comparable result was found by buijsse et al.

similar findings were encountered in a meta-analysis by bjelakovic et al.

caris-veyrat et al.

stampfer m.j. rimm e. spiegelman d. et al.

schlettwein-gsell d. ferry m. et al.

