production of trimethylamine tma from choline choline trimethylamine-lyase cutc 14 is associated with heart 15 and liver diseases 16.decarboxylation of p-hydroxyphenylacetate gives p-cresol p-hydroxyphenylacetate decarboxylase hpad 17 which interferes with human drug metabolism and is elevated in children with autism 18 19. despite these intriguing connections to human biology little is known about the abundance and distribution of different types of gres in human microbiomes.

we identified many uncharacterized family members including a universally distributed enzyme that enables commensal gut microbes and human pathogens to dehydrate trans-4-hydroxy-l-proline the product of the most abundant human posttranslational modification.

this 'chemically-guided functional profiling' workflow can therefore use ecological context to facilitate the discovery of enzymes in microbial communities.communities of microorganisms microbiomes occupy nearly every environment on earth and these complex assemblages carry out metabolic processes that affect surrounding habitats and organisms 1. for example the human gut microbiome metabolizes non- digestible dietary components produces essential vitamins and nutrients and synthesizes metabolites that are linked to human disease 2 3. despite their importance we have extremely limited knowledge of the specific biochemical reactions performed by microbiomes and the precise mechanisms by which this chemistry shapes microbial ecosystems 4.corresponding author these authors contributed equallysupplementary materials materials and methods figs.

for instance 78-86 of genes in human microbiome project hmp metagenomes cannot be assigned a metabolic function and50 cannot be given any annotation 4 5. moreover genes that can be annotated are typically mapped to large enzyme superfamilies without considering that a single superfamily can catalyze many different chemical reactions and that as many as 80 of enzymes within a superfamily can be uncharacterized or misannotated 6 7. thus functional profiling strategies that can accurately identify enzymes in microbiomes are needed including both characterized enzymes and enzymes of unknown function that play important but unrecognized roles in these habitats.the significance of this problem can be appreciated by considering the difficulties associated with studying the activities and roles of glycyl radical enzymes gres in the human gut microbiome.

1b and deoxyribonucleotide synthesis class iii ribonucleotide reductase 8 10. previous metagenomic and metaproteomic studies have indicated that the glycyl radical enzymes gres are one of the most abundant protein superfamilies in the human gut microbiome 11-13. furthermore activities of characterized gres from gut microbes are strongly linked to human health.

the presence of uncharacterized gres reflects a larger trend within the ssn 195 of the 241 clusters in the final ssn have no assignable biochemical function suggesting that this enzyme superfamily contains substantial unexplored diversity.integrating the ssn with shortbred reveals the distribution and abundance of gres in human microbiomeswith an ssn in hand we used shortbred to profile the abundance of the entire gre superfamily in 378 high-quality first-visit metagenomes from healthy participants sequenced during the human microbiome project hmp 5 focusing on six body sites stool reflective of the lower gastrointestinal tract buccal mucosa oral supragingival plaque oral tongue dorsum oral anterior nares skin and posterior fornix vaginal.

unlike pfl hpad and cutc are detected in only a subset of stool metagenomes which is consistent with the observed variability in the levels of downstream metabolites p- cresol sulfate and trimethylamine-n-oxide in humans 14 17 and could potentially contribute to interindividual differences in drug metabolism and disease susceptibility.we also obtained information about the abundance of uncharacterized gres in human microbiomes and our data suggest that many unappreciated gre-mediated activities exist in the human gut.

human gut bacteria consume l-fucose derived from host glycans producing beneficial short chain fatty acids like propionate as end products 35 36. a key transformation required for bacteria to convert l-fucose to propionate is the dehydration of s-12-propanediol to propionaldehyde by b12-dependent propanediol dehydratase 37. the l-fucose metabolizing human gut bacterium roseburia inulinivorans lacks this enzyme and instead encodes a member of gre cluster 16. this gre was hypothesized to be a b12-independent propanediol dehydratase pd based on its co-localization with other fucose utilization genes in the r. inulinivorans genome and upregulation during growth on l-fucose fig.

this observation suggests that pd may make a greater contribution to propionate production from l-fucose in the healthy human gut.however the presence of both enzymes indicates that this gut microbial metabolic process may also proceed under conditions of increased oxygen such as during inflammation 42. overall this analysis demonstrates how chemically-guided functional profiling can provide insights into the ecology of enzymes that are well-characterized biochemically.a prominent gut microbial gre dehydrates trans-4-hydroxy-l-prolineour analysis of dehydratases in the ssn revealed the characteristic dehydratase motif in sequences from cluster 15 the most abundant uncharacterized gre in the human gut fig.

our analysis of the gre superfamily in human microbiomes provided both new insights about gres of known activity including enzymes linked to human disease and the ability to identify enzymes of unknown activity in these communities revealing intriguing targets for further study.

each of the 1843 nodes within the resulting ssn contains sequences with 95 amino acid identity.levin et al.page 23figure 4. chemically-guided functional profiling of glycyl radical enzymes gres in the human microbiomeheatmap showing the abundance and distribution of the 50 most abundant gre clusters in 378 human microbiome project metagenomes from six body sites as quantified using shortbred.

doi10.1126science.aai8386.a prominent glycyl radical enzyme in human gut microbiomes metabolizes trans-4-hydroxy-l-prolineb.

chan school of public health boston ma 02115 usa4broad institute cambridge ma 02139 usaabstractthe human microbiome encodes vast numbers of uncharacterized enzymes limiting our functional understanding of this community and its effects on host health and disease.

using a workflow that combines protein sequence similarity network ssn analysis with quantitative metagenomics we first determined the abundance and distribution of individual members of the gre superfamily in healthy human microbiomes.

this previously unknown enzyme is found in all subjects and thus likely plays a prominent role in the human gut microbiome.chemically-guided functional profiling incorporates an understanding of enzymatic activity into quantitative metagenomicsour approach which we call 'chemically-guided functional profiling' fig.

