however due to the lack of more of epidemiological and in vivo studies the presence of a high number of variables such as human age interindividual and gender differences metabolism microbiota the complex wine chemistry and the wide array of in vivo biological effects of these compounds suggests that only cautious conclusions may be drawn from studies on red wine and a specific health issue.nowadays the knowledge of red wine phenolic composition has increased considerably - and numerous scientific studies have revealed the in vitro biological properties of some red wine flavonoids.

the conjugation with methyl groups decreased or did not alter the antiproliferative effect of the original anthocyanin .due to the paucity of human studies concerning red wine bioavailability and biological interactions this review will include some data using the main red wine flavonoids as purified compounds or as included in other food matrices.when consuming red wine there is a long journey before its components can exert a health-promoting effect.

this review is divided in three sections aiming to revise the absorption of major red wine flavonoids their metabolism and influence of gut microbiota topic 1 followed by the discussion of their interaction with biological proteins topic 2 and revisiting some of the health-promoting effects of red wine reported so far topic 3.figure 1. schematic representation of the journey of red wine components after being ingested.

most of the studies carried out used native unmodified forms of flavonoids found in red wine and hence should be interpreted with caution.bioavailability of red wine phenolicsabsorption and metabolism of red wine anthocyanins and derivativesanthocyanins are water soluble pigments found in plants flowers and fruits making them naturally consumed in the human diet .

therefore colon is being considered as an active site for metabolism rather than a simple excretion route and has been receiving much attention from the scientific community .these transformations may contribute to the absorption and modulation of the biological activity of red wine phenolics which is different between metabolized and natural forms .in a human intervention study modulation of gut microbiota using red wine was already described as an effective strategy for managing metabolic diseases associated with obesity .an intervention study with red wine revealed significant changes in eight metabolites 35-dihydroxybenzoic acid 3-o-methylgallic acid p-coumaric acid phenylpropionic acid protocatechuic acid vanillic acid syringic acid and 4-hydroxy-5-phenylvaleric acid  without any effect of ethanol on the microbial action.

these authors studied a wide library of compounds and identified several structural features of polyphenols that diminished this effect such as saturation of the c-2 c-3 double bond lack of the c-4 carbonyl glycosylation at c-3 and a high number of hydroxyl substituents.ruf and colleagues were able to reproduce the protective effect of red wine that they previously observed on platelets by condensed tannins procyanidins extracted from grape seeds or red wine and added to 6 ethanol .interaction with neurotoxic proteinsa very important neuroprotective activity has been attributed to some red wine polyphenols namely neuroprotection due to interaction with proteins in the brain.

2015 63 7685-7692.  bub a. watzl b. heeb d. rechkemmer g. briviba k. malvidin-3-glucoside bioavailability in humans after ingestion of red wine dealcoholized red wine and red grape juice.

it is known that excessive alcohol consumption increases the risk of liver cirrhosis and cancers mostly those of the upper digestive and respiratory tract while low to moderate red wine consumption has been associated to health-promoting properties .many reported health-promoting activities associated to red wine consumption have been positively correlated with their flavonoid compounds composition -.

in this model absorbed levels of anthocyanins reached around 10 of the apical amount after 3 h of incubation.some previous studies evaluated the bioavailability of anthocyanins using red wine and dealcoholized red wine .

increases in plasma of malvidin-3-o-glucoside mv3glc concentrations were not significantly different after the consumption of either red wine or dealcoholized red wine .in a human trial study in which a grape anthocyanins extract in a sugar-sweetened yogurt was consumed the main pigment detected in plasma was native mv3glc followed by peonidin-3-o-glucoside pn3glc but glucuronyl conjugates of malvidin and peonidin were also detected .

astringency is a tactile sensation described as dryness tightening and puckering sensations perceived in the oral cavity well-known for red wine consumers and highly associated with red wine quality.

however an interaction was recently reported between the major red wine anthocyanin malvidin-3-glucoside with salivary acidic prp  as well as with anthocyanin-derived pigments namely pyranoanthocyanins.the interaction of polyphenols with sp is quite significant because the oral cavity is the first point of contact between the human body and red wine polyphenols.

in this field of research a number of foods showed potential anticaries activityincluding red grape seeds and red wine proanthocyanidins -.

the fact that red wine procyanidins bind to both proteins suggests that they may have a role in reverse cholesterol transport and in oxidizing iron.several red wine polyphenols inhibit platelet aggregation .

a greater decrease in urinary neuropeptide pf2 was observed in those who were given red wine as compared to white wine which was attributed to the higher polyphenol content of red wine.

