all of these data suggest that either higher or lower ph or iron creates potentially pathogenic conditions and thus a single product for daily oral care probably should be avoided the ranges of ph and iron concentration necessary for maintaining a healthy oral environment require further investigation.relationships among the dmft index ph and iron concentration based on correlations with salivary microbiomes.

s4 boldface font indicates a correlation of 0.996 -5deg.bhot indicates the human oral taxon id in the human oral microbiome database  .cnon-caries-associated species.dcaries-associated species.elow-abundance species with a community-wide impact.fcorrelation value of 0.985 -10deg .however higher ph and lower iron may not necessarily be safe for oral health.

microbial ecologyinfluences of ph and iron concentration on the salivary microbiome in individual humans with and without cariesjianye zhoua nan jiangb zhenzhen wangc longqing lid jumei zhanga rui mac hongbing niea zhiqiang liakey laboratory of oral diseases of gansu province key laboratory of stomatology of the state ethnic affairs commission northwest university for nationalities lanzhou gansu chinaa institute of applied ecology chinese academy of sciences shenyang chinab school of stomatology lanzhou university lanzhou chinac institute of modern physics chinese academy of sciences lanzhou chinadabstract this study aimed to identify the differences in the oral microbial com- munities in saliva from patients with and without caries by performing sequencing with the illumina miseq platform as well as to further assess their relationships with environmental factors salivary ph and iron concentration.

different distribution patterns at different taxonomic levels were also previously reported in the oral cavity of healthy individuals  and we believe that the interactions of species are complex and that a deeper investigation of microorganisms at the species level is required.relationships of the bacterial profiles with ph and iron concentration.

2003. the world oral health report 2003 continuous improvement of oral health in the 21st century-the approach of the who global oral health programme.

alternatively prevotella multisaccharivorax oral taxon 794 and enterococcus italicus oral taxon 803 exhibited strong negative correla- tions with the salivary ph and iron concentration respectively.

therefore the early diagnosis and prevention of dental cariesis important in the 21st century .the oral microbial community structure rather than a single bacterial species has been reported to have a stronger influence on oral health including caries.

the se- quencing data for the two groups revealed that i particular distribution patterns synergistic effects or competition existed in the subjects with and without caries at both the genus and species levels and ii both the salivary ph and iron concentra- tion had significant influences on the microbial community structure.importance the significant influences of the oral environment observed in this study increase the current understanding of the salivary microbiome in caries.

the salivary ph oral iron concentration and dmft index significantly influenced the bacterial community structure at the genus and species levels p  0.01 .

as expected the structure of the salivary bacterial community was significantly influenced by the ph and iron concentration p  0.01. however in the rda plots at both the genus and species levels obtuse angles between the ph and iron concentration were observed suggesting opposite trends of the two factors.

among these species for example olsenella profusa oral taxon 806 was detected only in healthy individuals at a low relative abundance 0.003 but with a prevalence of over 31. in addition we compared our results with those of previous studies comparing individuals with and without caries and the overlapping genera and species are listed in table s2 discrep- ancies among the results were due to differences in the sample types sampling positions and methods used.different cooccurrence patterns in subjects with and without caries.

it is well accepted that the development of dental caries involves the dissolution of the tooth structure by acid produced by oral bacteria as a result of the fermentation of dietary carbohydrates and aciduric or acid-producing species are the major cariogenic species .

s4 and the species exhibiting strong correlations are further listed in .moreover at the species level the salivary ph iron concentration and dmft index also exhibited substantial effects.

therefore we hypothesize that both a low ph and high iron concentration influence salivary species which further increases the risk of caries.table 1 details for species with high correlations with the three variablesfpositiveironnegative phcontinued on following pageano.

2010. the human oral microbiome database a web accessible resource for investigating oral microbe taxonomic and genomic information.

