we examined oligosaccharides in relation to bacterial composition and extracted more detailed information on the study characteristics bacterial strains andor species identified in the publication and the direction of change in strainspecies frequency increased decreased or remained the same in response to the fiber intervention.resultsa total of 188 distinct studies with at least one outcome related to the gut microbiota were identified in the dietary fiber database version 3.0. the study design and population characteristics of these studies are summarized in table .table 1. study design characteristics.top three fiber typesadolescents 12-17 years only one study had an age range of 17-61 years all other studies in adults included subjects 18 years.the majority 96 were randomized controlled studies with only two studies not randomized and three studies with unknown randomization.

therefore the relationship between diet the gut microbiota microbial activity and gut physiology is complex.the distribution of different strains or species of bacteria within the gut will determine the metabolic profile of the microbiota which could have potential physiologic effects on health .

notably resistant starch had a higher proportion of studies with a sample size of fewer than 10 subjects while oligosaccharides were more often examined in studies of much larger sample sizes and longer duration.table reports the frequency and percentage of three major microbiota outcomes bacterial composition 47 of studies colonicfecal ph 32 and fermentation 76. fermentation is further broken down by the specific measurement used to determine the degree of fermentation.

however new research is interested in the role of the gut microbiota with respect to observed beneficial effects .nutrients 2017 9 125 doi10.3390nu9020125research on the human gut microbiota sometimes referred to as the forgotten organ  has exponentially increased over the past decade with recent advances in technology.

much of the current literature has shown positive effects of dietary fiber on gut function or beneficial bacterial species or positive effects of dietary fiber on specific health outcomes but few seem to be directly measuring these outcomes together to provide evidence of a dietary fiber-modulated gut microbiota and health outcome .over the last 25 years there has been a rapid increase in interest on dietary fiber and the microbiota particularly with respect to prebiotics such as oligosaccharides and inulin as well as chemically synthesized fibers such as polydextrose pdx soluble corn fiber and polyglycoplex pgx.

in doing so we demonstrate how this evidence map can be used as a platform to build on the existing evidence by answering the following two questions 1 can we identify specific gut microbial species that are modulated bydietary fiber 2 is there evidence that modulation of the gut microbiota is correlated with fermentation or physiological effects on host healthmaterials and methodsevidence mapping involves three major steps 1 clearly defining a topic area and setting criteria around the questions of interest 2 systematically searching for and selecting relevant studies based on pre-defined criteria such as study design and outcomes of interest and thereby creating a map of available evidence and 3 reporting on study characteristics and the extent of existing research -.

scfa concentration 52 and breath gas excretion 27 were the most commonly measured markers of fermentation but others included bacterial enzyme activity bile acid metabolism and fecal starch recovery.table 3. microbiota outcomes total studies  188.figure is a weighted scatter plot of the microbiota outcomes by fiber group.

further because this database was designed to specifically capture certain health outcomes other publications of interest to microbiota research may not be represented.a major strength of this evidence map is that it is a cost effective way of summarizing the data on dietary fiber and the gut microbiota.

the subjects were described as healthy in the majority of studies 81. fewer studies involved subjects that were overweight or obese 4 diabetic 1 hyperlipidemic 3 had metabolic syndrome or at-risk for metabolic syndrome 4 digestive issues 3 or risk factors for developing colon cancer 2.within the 188 studies 47 different fiber types were captured.

we hope that this evidence map will provide a resource for researchers to direct new intervention studies and meta-analyses.keywords dietary fiber gut microbiota evidence map colonic fermentation oligosaccharides resistant starch cereal fiber bifidobacteria lactobacilliintroductionaccording to the 2009 codex alimentarius definition of dietary fiber which aims to unify the definition among all countries dietary fiber includes all carbohydrate polymers of three or more monomeric units that resist digestion in the small intestine .

despite the considerable number of studies showing this bifidogenic effect few have actually examined direct relationships of this modulation of the gut microbiota to other physiological health outcomes.

as more emphasis is put on the importance of dietary patterns rather than individual foods or food components  more whole-diet intervention studies need to be conducted to understand how these relationships among diet the gut microbiota and health work in the context of a whole diet.

with respect to microbiota outcomes fewer studies have measured bacterial enzymeactivity which may be more important than simply measuring changes in the bacterial composition because some strains or species may alter their function and therefore their metabolites in response to changes in the gut environment rather than their absolute number.

louis p. links between diet gut microbiota composition and gut metabolism.proc.

these interactions can greatly impact host health and risk of disease  and the microbiota have been linked to numerous diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome ibs asthma allergy metabolic syndrome diabetes obesity cardiovascular disease and colorectal cancer .a number of factors can cause the composition of the microbiota to shift including changes in diet .

