enterica serovar typhimurium manipulates the gut-brain axis to inhibit anorexia which reduces its virulence but promotes its transmission.s.

typhimurium causes enteric and systemic typhoid disease in humans and mice.

when specific pathogen-free c57bl6b6 mice were orally infected with an s. typhimurium strain sl1344 that was negative for slrp dslrp they exhibited faster death kinetics increased weightloss and more pronounced anorexia than mice that were infectedwith wild-type s. typhimurium.salmonella enterica subsp.

enterica serovar typhimurium manipulates the gut-brain axis to inhibit anorexia which reduces its virulence but promotes its transmissionremarkably food-restricted mice that were infected with wild-types.

typhimurium showed a similar phenotype to mice that were infected with the dslrp strain and had faster death kinetics.

typhimurium.

typhimurium and injected with recombinant il-1b showed increased anorexia.

to investigate its role in sickness- induced anorexia gene expression analysis was carried out on thehypothalamus of infected mice genes involved in feeding and metabolism were differentially expressed between mice that were infected with wild- type and dslrp s. typhimurium and a subset of these genes was regulated by il-1b.

thus pathogen-induced anorexia is dependent on signalling through the gut-brain axis.finally investigating the effects of anorexia on pathogen transmission revealed that mice that were infected with the dslrp strain were more likely to have disseminated infection in secondary organs than mice infected with wild-type s. typhimurium which explains the increased viru- lence of this strain.

moreover mice with disseminated infection were less likely to shed salmonella in faeces.salmonella-induced inhibition of anorexia may therefore promote host survival and pathogen transmission.in summary this study reports that the s. typhimurium effector pro- tein slrp manipulates the gut-brain axis and prevents sickness-induced anorexia in the host.

although this reduces virulence it is ultimately beneficial for s. typhimurium as it increases pathogen transmission.shimona starlingnature reviews  microbiology

