for example atopic dermatitis ad is a disease characterized by dry itchy and inflamed skin that is frequently subject to infections of the skin and has been clearly shown to have an altered skin bacterial flora when compared to non-ad subjects 7 8. although it is not clear why this occurs the skin of subjects with ad has a decreased capacity to express certain amps such as cathelicidins and b-defensins despite the presence of skin inflammation 9-13. this relative deficiency in amps has been proposed to result in an inability of the skin to resist growth of pathogens such as staphylococcus aureus.the high abundance of s.aureus in ad contributes to the pathophysiology of this disease and has been linked with immune dysfunction including t helper cell 2 lymphocyte skewing 14 reduced amps 12 15 exacerbated allergic reactions 16 17 and disruption of the skin barrier 18. mice develop ad-like lesions when they are experimentally colonized by s.aureus 19 20. however in contrast to the exacerbation of disease and inflammation caused by s.aureus other bacterial species found on normal skin appear to aid in normal immune homeostasis 21. for example staphylococcus epidermidis a prevalent species of bacteria on healthy human skin can diminish inflammation after injury 22 enhance development of cutaneous t cells 23-25 and promote expression of amps 23 24 26- 28. furthermore some bacteria have been shown to produce their own amps that can synergize with amps produced by mammalian cells 29 30.nakatsuji et al.page 3here we hypothesized that normal human skin is populated by commensal bacteria that promote health by producing antimicrobial activity.

s.aureus culture-positive lesional skin had decreased bacterial diversity when compared to lesional skin that was s.aureus culture-negative fig.

s. hominis a9 grown on agar generated a clear zone of inhibition of s.aureus growth thus confirming that this strain spontaneously secreted activity into culture medium at a level sufficient to directly inhibit s.aureus fig.

to directly test whether this clone could reduce colonization by s.aureus on the skin we applied s. hominis a9 or an equal density of control s. hominis isolates without antimicrobial activity to the surface of sanitized pigskin 31 on which a defined amount of s.aureus had first been applied.

similarly after colonization of the back skin of mice with a known amount of s.aureus a single application of s. hominis a9 reduced s.aureus but control strains of s. hominis had no effect fig.

6 c and d 35. ll-37 alone 8 mm decreased s.aureus survival by 3-log whereas 4 mmnakatsuji et al.page 6ll-37 alone did not affect s.aureus survival in vitro.

combination with 4 and 8 mm ll-37 concentrations consistent with those measured on human skin enhanced the antimicrobial activity of each sh-lantibiotic by 4-fold with 4 mm ll-37 and 16-fold sh-lantibiotic-a with 8 mm ll-37 or 32-fold sh-lantibiotic-b with 8 mm ll-37 respectively suggesting synergistic action between prokaryotic and host amps.application of bacteria with antimicrobial activity decreased s.aureus in adto investigate the capacity of commensal bacteria to inhibit s.aureus on human skin we tested the effect of applying these bacteria to subjects with ad.

in particular patients with ad are frequently colonized by s.aureus that then exacerbates the disease by further promoting inflammation 7 8. we hypothesized that the commensal bacteria residing on normal skin might contribute to host defense by producing molecules that inhibit colonization by s.aureus.

indeed no subject was colonized by s.aureus if they also had a normal abundance of cons bacteria that produced antimicrobial activity and application of antimicrobial cons strains to animal or human skin greatly reduced s.aureus colonization.

1. dysbiosis of the skin microbiome in ad is associated with s.aureus colonizationa live s.aureus cfus on skin of non-ad subjects and on nonlesional and lesional skin of subjects with ad.

b shannon diversity index of bacterial community on skin from non-ad and s.aureus culture-positive or s.aureus culture- negative subjects with ad.

c principal coordinate analysis plot analysisdisplaying composition of bacterial communities on non-ad and s.aureus culture-positive or s.aureus culture-negative subjects with ad.

sa s.aureus culture-positive sa- s.aureus culture-negative l lesional nl nonlesional.

2. s.aureus colonization correlates with a lack of antimicrobial activity in consa schematic of a high-throughput antimicrobial screening of cons against s.aureus.b cfu of cons without red or with antimicrobial activity against s.aureus green.

d correlation between proportion of cons strains that have the capacity to inhibit s.aureus growth and abundance of live s.aureus cfu on the skin surface.

