Microbiome alternations were most pronounced in current chewers particularly those using betel nut for 10 years or longer.Although some microbial differences were seen in formal betel nut chewers most of the differ- ences were observed in current chewers which may indicate that disruption of the oral micro- biome induced by betel nut chewing is reversible.Prolonged use of betel nut may disrupt the bacterial composition of the oral including reduced levels of commensal bacteria critical to maintaining homeostasis.

Within-sample diversity was significantly lower in nonsmoking current betel nut users who chewed without added tobacco compared to non- smoking never chewers indicating that the changes in microbial diversity observed in betel nut chewers were due to betel nut use alone rather than cigarette smoking.Excessive alcohol consumption may explain some of the oral microbial differences observed with betel nut chewing.

Over 300 bacteria inhabit the oral cavity of healthy individuals and most are commensals which play an important role in maintaining homeostasis including pro- tection against pathogenic species down-regulation of inflammation including proinflamma- tory cytokine production and reduction of nitrate and nitrite to nitrogen oxide and other reactive nitrogen intermediates.- Betel nut chewers often experience poor oral hygiene and chronic periodontitis  both of which have been linked to changes in oral bac- terial composition and oral cancer risk.The early development of oral cancer in betel nut chewers typically manifest as specific lesions of the oral cavity including leukoplakia erythroplakia and oral submucous fibrosis the precursor lesion most strongly linked to oral cancer in betel nut chewers.

When limited to those who had never chewed betel nut beta diversity did not differ among smokers and non-smokers.Taxonomic comparisons by betel nut useThe relative abundances of specific bacterial taxa were compared by betel nut use and oral lesion status.

One hundred twenty-two adults were enrolled including 64 current betel nut chewers 37 former chewers and 21 with no history of betel nut use.

In Guam a U.S. territory in the western Pacific where betel nut chewing is prevalent  oral cancer mortality rates among the native Chamorro population are six times higher than that of the U.S.Betel nut chewing is considered the fourth most commonly used addictive substance in the world after tobacco alcohol and caffeine.

The Areca nut can be chewed whole or cut in half or as quid a mixture contain- ing crushed Areca nut combined with betel leaf tobacco slaked lime alcohol or other sub- stances.

Sixty-four individuals reported current use of betel nut 37 were former chewers and 21 had no history of betel nut use.

To Comparison of Oral Bacteria Within-Sample Alpha Diversity by Betel Nut Chewing Historya.a 4 subjects with fewer than 100 sequences not includeddoi10.1371journal.pone.0172196.t002evaluate the influence of cigarette smoking separate from betel nut use never betel nut chewers were compared by smoking status.

All 10 individuals with oral lesions were Relationship of oral premalignant lesions with betel nut chewing and other factors.a Odds ratios could not be estimated due to null cell valuesb Adjusted for current betel nut chewing yesno smoking yesno oral HPV DNA positivenegative Streptococcus infantis relative abundance Streptococcus anginosus relative abundancedoi10.1371journal.pone.0172196.t004cigarette smokers compared to 68.8 77112 of those without oral lesions p  0.036 all were positive for S. anginosus compared to 87.5 98112 of those without lesions p  0.235 and 80 810 of individuals with oral lesions were positive for S. infantis compared to 93.8 105112 without lesions p  0.111.

