18 recently reported that the levels of clostridium were elevated in subjects on a high-fat diet .prebiotics that can restore healthy gut microbiota by changing its composition are being developed as new therapeutic approaches to treat various diseases 3. because the gut microbiota plays an important role in maintaining physiological reactions of the host new dietary treatments such as g-pga have been developed to modulate the gut immune response and restore intestinal homeostasis.

it is suggested that oral administration of g-pga can be helpful for modulating the gut microbiota as a prebiotic.keywords poly-g-glutamate gut microbiota prebiotics organ distributionspoly-gamma-glutamate g-pga is an anionic polymer of glutamic acid bonded by g-amide linkages 1. it is a natural biopolymer obtained by the fermentation of bacillus species from traditional fermentation foods.

theresults of this study indicate that high-molecular-weight g-pga with its viscous characteristics can stabilize the gut microorganisms and low-molecular-weight g-pga reaching the colon can be utilized as a prebiotics able to increase the diversity of the microbial composition in gut.

2017 272 412-415 httpsdoi.org10.4014jmb.1611.11023jmbprebiotic effects of poly-gamma-glutamate on bacterial flora in murine guthee-eun jin1 jae-chul choi12 yong taik lim3 and moon-hee sung12department of bio and fermentation convergence technology kookmin university seoul 02707 republic of korea bioleaders corporation daejeon 34028 republic of koreaskku advanced institute of nanotechnology school of chemical engineering sungkyunkwan university suwon 16419 republic of koreaprebiotics improve the growth or activities of specific microbial genera and species in the gut microbiota in order to confer health benefits to the host.

in this study we investigated the effect of poly-gamma-glutamate g-pga as a prebiotic on the gut microbiota of mice and the organ distributions of g-pga in mice.

2.we confirmed that g-pga affected the composition change of the gut microbiota in mice.

heat map circle type profiles and dendograms of the most abundant otus at the order c and species d levels in the gut microbiota.

2014. impact of the gut microbiota prebiotics and probiotics on human health and disease.

2008. culture-independent analysis of the gut microbiota in colorectal cancer and polyposis.

2010. gut microbiota in human adults with type 2 diabetes differs from non-diabetic adults.

plos one 5 e9085.armougom f henry m vialettes b raccah d raoult d. 2009. monitoring bacterial community of human gut microbiota reveals an increase in lactobacillus in obese patients and methanogens in anorexic patients.

2015. the composition of the gut microbiota throughout life with an emphasis on early life.

2015. obese-type gut microbiota induce neurobehavioral changes in the absence of obesity.

the gut microbiome can be altered by prebiotics by inducing the growth of probiotic microorganisms and providing beneficial effects 2 3. the human microbiome and its relationship with diseases such as irritable bowel syndrome 4 polyposis or colorectal cancer 5 type ii diabetes 6 and obesity 7 have been proven.

the composition of the microbial community impacts directly or indirectly the host's conditions and can contribute to health or illness 8. this microbial colonization processing promotes health benefits with other factors that modify the microbial composition 9. the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of g-pga as a prebiotic on the gut microbiome.

