The increase in regulatory Foxp3CD4 cells similarly to our and others' previous studies2430 is likely important toCase characteristicsA 72-year-old female who suffered from frequent watery diarrhea and was diagnosed with collagenous colitis CC six months after debut of symptoms in 2008.Laboratory diagnosisShe had normal biochemical and hematologic parameters whereas faecal calprotectin levels were increased from 160 mgkg in 2009 to 500 mgkg when the CC deteriorated in 2013.

Despite microbiota showing dysbiosis in CC patients1920 FMT as a possible treatment for CC has not been reported before.

We here present a case with medically refractory CC who responded to FMT.CASE REPORTPatient and donor characteristics procedures and clinical results of FMTThe patient was a 72 year old female who suffered from frequent watery diarrhea and was diagnosed with CC six months after debut of symptoms in 2008.

As FMT has not been documented in CC she was offered thisHistopathologic findings before the first transplant and after the second transplant showed typical and similar features of CC.

FMT in a CC patientameliorate the ongoing inflammation whereas the role of Foxp3CD8 T cells in CC pathology remains elusive.

Our observation showing that FMT can result in clinical improvement of CC supports the hypothesis that luminal factors including or influen- cing the intestinal microbiota are involved in the pathogenesis of CC.

Despite dysbiosis in CC patients FMT as a possible treatment for CC has not been reported before.Term explanationFMT is a process of transplantation of fecal bacteria from a healthy individual into a recipient to modify microbiota dysbiosis.Experiences and lessonsFMT is apparently a potential treatment for refractory severe CC.Gunaltay S et al .

The effect of faecal microbiota transplantation FMT in active collagenous colitis CC has to the best of our knowledge never been reported before.

FMT in a CC patientCollagenous colitis Flow cytometry Lymphocytesc The Authors 2017.

The histopathology before the first transplant and after the second transplant showed typical and unaltered features of CC.

