natural variation in microbiota between experiments or facilities may be important for repli- cation efforts to ascertain that a given effect is robust to mi- crobial background for example when testing a drug that may be administered to patients with different microbiota.the confounding of environment genotype and micro- biota effects that occurs when parents transmit microbiota to their offspring may be the most problematic aspect of microbiota-mediated effects for researchers.

not only immunity and metabo- lism but also traits as diverse as bone density blood-brain barrier integrity and behavior are influenced by the non- pathogenic microbes bacteria and eukaryotes with which animals come into contact.some effects are seen when examining the differences be- tween microbiologically sterile axenic and conventional animals whereas others are observed between animals with natural variations in the microbiome.

for many experiments it may be sufficient to randomize theeffects of microbiota across treatment groups such that var- iation in microbiota may add a certain amount of noise but not create a spurious signal.

fur- thermore some microbiota may have a different phenotypic effect in host animals with different genetic backgrounds and vice versa.

in some cases it may be necessary to standardize the mi- crobiota of the experimental animals--for example by ar- tificially creating a standard microbial mixture similar to but even more rigorously standardized than the schaedler flora sometimes used in mice or by autoclaving or irra- diating food and water to prevent the introduction of new microbes.

parallel experiments using axenic animals may also be necessary.

when studying in- tact animals variability comes from many sources including the microbial organisms that associate with the animals being studied.

these measures include rearing animals in identical conditions for several generations prior to the start of an exper- iment co-housing or cross-fostering animals before assigning them to treatments or conducting experiments in which re- plicates are matched pairs from the same litter littermate controls or split-brood designs.

the effect of microbes on a certain trait can be independent of the host's genotype or the microbiota composition may be shaped by traits of the host and in turn confer a phenotypic trait.

in a genome-wide association study of nutritional traits of flies for example some genetic polymorphisms re- sulted in phenotypic differences only in the presence of mi- crobiota whereas others did only in the absence of microbiota 1. the diversity of these effects means that the microbiota may contribute to unexplained variation either within or be- tween experiments in a number of different often difficult-to- predict ways.clearly the best way to take microbiota into account when designing experiments depends on the research question being asked and the parameter being studied.

changes in microbiota over the course of an experiment may need to be monitored which involves culturing and sequencing microbial communities.

in other types of research such measures may obscure im- portant differences between genotypes produce a biologi- cally irrelevant phenotype or simply be ineffective.

en- vironmentally acquired microbes can also be transferred to offspring or to animals that are housed together.

