Approximately three closest relative sequences repre- senting uncultured organisms were selected for each independent lineage made by the OTU representatives and exported to the LTP123 database.A subset of sequences containing i all PacBio OTU representative sequences ii the selection of the reference type strains and the SILVA REF123 recruited sequences and iii the neighbor-joining supporting sequence data set was used to reconstruct a neighbor-joining tree.

Forty-five species have been reported to be responsible for human outbreaks or infections and 23 yet to be described species belong to genera that include pathogenic species.

Those sequences were classified into 314 OPUs including 102 known species 50 yet to be described species and 161 unknown new lineages of uncultured representatives.

Using the metataxonomic approach we could assign approximately 72.9 of the total reads to known species and 15.9 to yet to be described species.

Insertion and deletion rates were obtained by comparing the final alignment of all representative selected sequences with the corresponding reference sequence in the LTP123.Microbiome-guided culturingThe species with putative medical significance as suggested by the microbiome analysis such as C. perfringens were attempted to be isolated from fecal swabs and analyzed for virulence genes and genetic diversity.RESULTSUse of the almost full-length 16S rRNA gene for OPU assignment The PacBio platform rendered a total of 89 412 raw 16S rRNA sequence reads for the nine vultures with an average of 9935 - 1182 each.

aquatilis respectively.The 102 known species gathered between 57.6 and 91.4 of the reads in each vulture and 73.0 of the total reads for all vultures.

These 50 new species accounted for between 3.6 and 27.5 of the reads in the individual vultures and 15.9 of the total reads for all vultures 3 Supplementary Table S4.

The sequences that were identical or nearly identical 498.7 identity to the type strain sequences were considered members of the same species.

Data containing ambiguous bases was removed primer sequences and adapters were excised from the filtered reads and sequences outside of the 10-1490 nucleotide positions were trimmed.For the Illumina MiSeq sequencing the PCR amplification of the V3-V4 region of the bacterial 16S rRNA was performed using universal primers 341F 5'-CCT ACG GGN GGC WGC AG-3' and 805R 5'-GAC TAC HVG GGT ATC TAA TCC-3'.

The most frequent read of each OTU was selected as a representative to be added to the LTP123 database The All-Species Living Tree Project and aligned using the SINA tool SILVA Incremental Aligner.The aligned sequences were inserted into the default tree using the Parsimony tool implemented in the ARB software package.The resulting insertions were manually inspected to recognize all representative sequences affiliating closely with either type strain sequences or clearly within a genus lineage.

