the 16s rrna gene applicons obtained were attached after cleanup with ampure xp beads to dual indices and illumina sequencing adapters using the nextera xt index kit illumina china shanghai with the follow- ing pcr also prepared with 2 y kapa hifi hotstart readymix condition initial denaturation at 95c for 30 s followed by 8 cycles of denaturing at 95c for 30 s annealing at 55c for 30 s and extension at 72c for 30 stable 1.physiochemical characterization of soil invaded by ageratina adenophora at different degrees.abc represent the soil micro-sites with three aboveground vegetation types a ageratina adenophora as monoculture b a mixture of ageratina adenophora and native plant species and c only native species.table 2.biodiversity index and similarity of bacterial communities in soils invaded by ageratina adenophora at different degrees.hq represents high quality.abc represent the soil micro-sites with three aboveground vegetation types a ageratina adenophora as monoculture b a mixture of ageratina adenophora and native plant species and c only native species.before a final extension at 72c for 5 min.

to investigate the effects of a. adenophora's invasion on the soil microbiome four micro-site samples were collected in may 2015 from each zone with a. adenophora as a monoculture a mixture of a. adenophora and native spe- cies elsholtzia ciliata artemisia indica and setaria plicata and native species only.

2. phylum composition of bacterial communities at 12 soil micro-sites invaded by a. adenophora at different densities.monoculture mixed-species and native-species represent surface vegetation with a. adenophora as a monoculture a mixture of a. adenophora and native plant species and only native plant species respectively.impacts of this invasion on the soil microbiome are also apparent at the genus and group levels.

adenophora invasion intensity with vegetation consist- ing of a. adenophora as monoculture a mixture of a. adenophora 40-50 coverage and native species elsholtzia ciliata artemisia indica and setaria plicata and native species only.

2009 and verrucomicrobia may play an important role in methanol transformation fierer 2015. their selection in bulk soil below a. adenophora found in the current study indi- cates that invasion of this weed significantly modified soil microbiota close to its rhizosphere which could be mainly due to plant litters produced by the fast growth of a. adenophora.we also noticed that a. adenophora's invasion selected bacterial species from a-proteobacterial genera bradyrhizobiumphenylobacteriumand prosthecomicrobium planctomycetes genus singulisphaera and chloraflex genus ktedonobacter.

in this study we have in- vestigated the composition and diversity of the microbiome in soil invaded by a. adenophora using 16s rrna gene high throughput sequencing to assess the possible influ- ence of the invasion of a. adenophora on the composition and diversity of the soil microbiome.

no sig- nificant differences p  0.05 in soil nh4-n available k and total n were found between these three sites.effect of invasion of a. adenophora on biodiversity and composition of soil bacterial microbiome16s rrna amplicon sequences table 2 retrieved fromthe 12 micro-sites colonised with the three vegetation types four replicas for each were used to investigate any ef- fect the invasion of a. adenophora might have on the com- position of each local soil microbiome.

1. venn diagram produced using 16s rrna gene sequences ob- tained in this study.the venn diagram is produced with soft mothur to show the numbers of otus of bacterial communities in soil with a. adenophora as a monoculture abbreviated as monoculture a mixture of a. adenophora and native plant species abbreviated as mixed-species and only na- tive plant species abbreviated as native-species respectively and the numbers of otus shared among the bacterial communities with differ- ent vegetation types.soils colonised with the three different vegetation types shared 3778 otus.

moreover bajpai and inderjit 2013 reported that a higher availability of soil microbial-generated nitrogenous compounds positively impacts a. adenophora's biomass accumulation.moreover for the first time our results show that al- though invasion by this weed changed the composition of bacterial populations and increased total species biodiversity 1.2 times of that measured in soil without a. adenophora it did not significantly change the structure of the underlying soil bacterial microbiome.

63 114-121 2017 doi 10.2323jgam.2016.08.0022017 applied microbiology molecular and cellular biosciences research foundationfull papereffect of ageratina adenophora invasion on the composition and diversity of soil microbiomereceived june 26 2016 accepted august 10 2016 j-stage advance publication date february 24 2017yunhong kong1 james kong2 dingkang wang1 heping huang3 kaiyou geng3 yonxia wang4 and yun xia31 key laboratory of special biological resource development and utilization of universities of yunnan province kunming university kunming china2 department of computer science waterloo university waterloo canada3 agricultural school kunming university kunming china4 microbiology institute of yunnan university kunming chinaintroductionageratina adenophora sprengel synonym eupato- rium adenophorum sprengel a notorious weed originat-ing in mexico and costa rica has now invaded more than 30 tropical and subtropical countries and regions xie et al.

2001 and is continuing to spread eastwards and northwards at an estimated 20 km per annum wang and wang 2006. a. adenophora replaces native crops and trees by outcompeting them for the available fertilizer water sun- light and space and very rapidly becomes the single pre- dominant plant species mcgeoch et al.

2006.existence of a positive interaction between a. adenophora and its associated rhizosphere microbiome is speculated to play a key role in its successful establish- ment and dominance in its invasion of native habitats yu et al.

the limitation of these culture-dependent tech- niques is such that meaningful information about the di- versity and population composition of the soil microbiome located in close proximity to a. adenophora is still lack- ing.

furthermore it remains unclear to what extent inva- sion of a. adenophora may affect the native soil microbiome.

we believe this information is an essential first step in understanding interactions between a. adenophora and its immediate soil microbiome before proposing new measures to control this weed.in recent years as a result of the accelerated advances in sequencing technology metagenomic analysis has been increasingly used in the study of the interaction of soil- plant-microorganisms.

