from these women specimens were selected to represent the following six overall sexual activity categories 1 women with no past sexual contact with others and no sexual contact over 12 months 2 women with no past sexual contact with others who commenced non-coital sex andor 3 atflow chart of number of specimens assessed according to sexual activity categories at enrolment and over the study duration.

gardnerella vaginalis clade distribution according to sexual activity category or bv status n  65 specimens 32 women.aspecimens that were positive for gardnerella vaginalis were analysed by clade-specific qpcr to characterise the g. vaginalis clade present gv1234 bthere was no difference in clade type between specimens from women reporting no sexual activity or non-coital sex only no sexnc so these were combined for analysis and compared to specimens from women reporting unprotected penile-vaginal sex who don't get bv pvs or all specimens from women who develop bv bvcg.

community state type cst groupings shown based on previous literature    where cst i aligns with specimens dominated by lactobacillus crispatus cst ii with specimens dominated by l. gasseri cst iii with specimens dominated by l. iners cst iv with specimens dominated by g. vaginalis and cst v with specimens dominated by l. jensenii.

specimens pre-bv or bv from women who went on to develop bv were more likely to con- tain gv4 or  11.82 95ci 1.87 74.82 p  0.009. furthermore specimens were more likely to contain multiple g. vaginalis clades rather than a single clade if women engaged in penile-vaginal sex 3 vs 1 clade rrr  9.55 95ci 1.33 68.38 p  0.025 or were diag- nosed with bv 2 vs 1 clade rrr  11.82 95ci 1.87 74.82 p  0.009 3 vs 1 clade rrr  31.50 95ci 1.69 586.87 p  0.021. multinomial logistic regression of factors associated with having a vaginal microbiome dominated by different bacterial species.amultinomial logistic regression with specimens dominated by other heterogeneous non-lactobacilli predominately a. vaginae and prevotella spp.

vaginalis clade abundances were analysed using logistic regression with women reporting no sexnon-coital sexual activity only as the referent group clustering by participant to take into account multiple specimens provided longitudinallydmultinomial logistic regression with specimens containing a single clade as the referent group clustered for multiple specimens from participants 32clusters.

thus we validated our 16s rrna gene amplicon dataset based on the v34 variable regions with a subset analysis of v12 sequencing and qpcr screening for l. crispatus l. iners and g. vaginalis.conclusionsin this longitudinal study of young women with a range of sexual experience ethnicity and engaging in penile-vaginal sex influenced the composition of the vaginal microbiota.overall there was a very high level of consistency of vaginal bacterial communities betweenconsecutive pairs of specimens over 12 months particularly when either l. crispatus l. iners or l. gasseri or l. jensenii were the dominant bacterial species present in the reference speci- men.

scores were given a value from 0-1 samples with a score of 0 being having all species genera in common and those scoring 1 with no bacterial speciesgenera in common.aregression analysis using a random-effects model adjusting for all listed characteristics and clustering by participant to account for multiple specimens 52clustersbcompared to the combined ethnicity groups central or south-east asian and indian or sri-lankanccompared to non-oral contraceptive pill ocp usersdsexual activity categories for this analysis were specified as non-coital experience or progression from no activity to non-coital sex or unprotected penile- vaginal sex or initiation of unprotected penile-vaginal sex throughout the follow up period and both were compared to women who had no sex during the paired intervalsecompared to first specimen of each consecutive pair reference specimen dominated by other heterogeneous non-lactobacilli predominately a. vaginaeand prevotella spp.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171856.t003sampled older and predominantly sexually-active women have shown that while the vaginal microbiota can be quite stable its composition can also fluctuate quite rapidly and be influ- enced by a range of factors including menses sexual behaviour and antimicrobials   - .

g. vaginalis clade type in young women particularly with differing sexual experience has not been described.we aimed to determine how sexual activity affects the composition and stability of vaginal bacterial communities and g. vaginalis clade types present in young women who participated in a female university student study fuss in melbourne australia  .methodsparticipants and specimens for this study were selected from the original fuss cohort com- prising 413 female university students aged 17-21 without bv at enrolment .

nineteen women with no sexual activity at enrolment provided 77 speci- mens 19 with non-coital activity only at enrolment provided 60 specimens and 14 who reported penile-vaginal sex provided 47 specimens.

the vaginal micro- biota was characterised using roche 454 v34 region 16s rrna sequencing and g. vaginalis clade typing by qpcr.resultsa lactobacillus crispatus dominated vaginal microbiota was associated with caucasian ethnicity adjusted relative risk ratioarrr  7.28 95ci1.3738.57p  0.020. an l. iners arrr  17.51 95ci2.18140.33p  0.007 or g.vaginalis arrr  14.03 95ci1.22160.69 p  0.034 dominated microbiota was associated with engaging in penile- vaginal sex.

penile-vaginal sex did not alter the consistency of microbial communities but increased g.vaginalis clade diversity in young women with and without bv suggesting sexual transmission of commensal and potentially pathogenic clades.introductionthere is limited information on how commencement of sexual activity affects the composition and stability of the vaginal microbiota.

outcome refers to a composite outcome whereby the relative risk of having a specimen dominated by each group were compared simultaneously using multinomial logistic regression modelsbmultinomial logistic regression as before adjusting for all other characteristics analysedcrelative to non-caucasian women which included women from central or south-east asia india or sri-lankadspecimens were from women who reported continuous oral contraceptive pill ocp use at each interval of follow-up to study endpoint relative to non-ocp userseunprotected penile-vaginal sex relative to no sexual activityfspecimens dominated by l. gasseri and l. jensenii were combined for analysis due to smaller sample sizes for both spp.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171856.t002discussionthis longitudinal study examining the vaginal microbiota of young women showed that sexual activity and ethnicity influenced the dominant bacteria detected.

key sd  standard deviation ocp  oral contraceptive pill.adigital or receptive oral sexbanalysis of variance anova of age by sexual activity categorycfisher's exact or chi-squared analysis across all three sexual activity categoriesdchi-squared analysis comparing each ethnicity with the other two across all sexual activity categoriesecomprises women of chinese malay and vietnamese ethnicities.

the bv inci- dence rate in this cohort was strikingly low 2.2100 woman-yearswy 95cis 0.8 4.9 100wy   and in addition to the specimens selected we included all of the specimens from the seven woman from the cohort who had a bv diagnosis by nugent score.

detected presented as an adjusted arrr clustering for multiple specimens per participant.bray-curtis dissimilarity scores were calculated between consecutive paired longitudinal specimens over multiple time points from each participant.

