the information gleaned in the present study regarding the endophytic microbial communities in this unique ecological system of two plants connected by their vascular system highlights the potential of exploiting alternative environmentally friendly approaches for parasitic weed control.keywords broomrapes parasitic weed endophytic bacteria tomato solanum lycopersicum biocontrolintroductionphelipanche aegyptiaca broomrapes is an obligate holoparasite that attacks the roots of almost all economically important crops in the solanaceae fabaceae compositae brassicaceae and umbelliferae plant families    .

thus the changes in endophytic community occurring in the host plant may be affected by the parasite in an indirect manner.alternatively the endophytic community composition is affected in direct manner by an exchange of endophytic bacteriabetween the p. aegyptiaca and its host.

by using molecular tools we were able to show that even though the dominant endophyte taxonomy in the parasite is similar to that in other known plant endophytes   the microbial ecology of these endophytic communities in p. aegyptiaca is greatly affected by its connection to the host.the greater similarity between the endophyte communities of the parasitic weed in the different post-attachment stages to each other than to those detected prior to attachment to the host pre- haustorium stage indicate that connection to the host is affecting the endophytic community composition of the parasite as well as the host.

the fact that both the parasitic weed and its host endophytic communities changed following parasitization interaction and become more similar to each other can be explained by the following the parasite affects the environment of the inner tissue of the host plant.

 12  tamar lahav3  jacline abu-nassar1  guy achdari1  raghda salami2  3 and 11 department of weed science newe ya'ar research center agricultural research organization ramat yishay israel2 department of biotechnology engineering ort braude college karmiel israel 3 the institute of plant sciences newe ya'ar research center agricultural research organization ramat yishay israeledited bymaurizio vurro national research council italyreviewed by grama nanjappa dhanapal university of agricultural sciencesbengaluru india katarzyna turnau jagiellonian university polandcorrespondenceradi aly specialty section this article was submitted to crop science and horticulture a section of the journal frontiers in plant sciencereceived 28 december 2016accepted 14 february 2017published 01 march 2017citation iasur kruh l lahav t abu-nassar j achdari g salami r freilich s and aly r 2017 host-parasite-bacteria triangle the microbiome of the parasitic weed phelipanche aegyptiaca and tomato-solanum lycopersicum mill.

indeed investigating indicator bacteria such as novosphingobium and methylophilus from the host p. aegyptiaca will enable the understanding of their unique interaction with the parasitic weed.endophytes may be equipped with a rich arsenal of metabolites involved in defense as well as in interaction with the plant     supporting their host plant in different aspects.

therefore the first step in clarifying the role of these bacteria in the parasitism is to investigate the endophytic communities during the phases of parasitization and compared them with parasitized and non- parasitized host tissues.to do so we used tomato solanum lycopersicum as a host and p. aegyptiaca as the parasitic weed.materials and methodsplant materialsthe parasitic weed and its host were grown as was previously described   solanum lycopersicum l. 'mp- 1' plants were served as hosts for p. aegyptiaca parasitization.

the diversity of the isolated endophytes was reduced containing only one bacillus species in the shoot stage and in its host .to examine the effect of different endophytic isolates on the interactions between the parasitic weed and its host we then examined the effect of the isolates on development of the parasitic weed.

tomato is hosting both endophytic fungi and endophytic bacteria some of them showing the ability to promote seed germination and protect tomato plants from pathogens         .

furthermore since endophytic mycorrhizal fungi contain a large amount of bacteria in the ectomycorrhizal root tips   it might spread endophytic bacteria while colonizing the tomato.

in the current study we showed for the first time that bacterial endophytic communities changed with different stages of parasitism and that they also affect the host's endophytic composition.

endophytic bacteria may also contribute resistance to their hosts by suppressing pathogens and enhancing the plant's immune system        .

to ensure that only endophytic bacteria from the plant tissue were being examined samples were surface-sterilized twice by 2-min incubation in 70 ethanol and 10 min in 6 sodium hypochlorite followed by a double rinsing in sterile double-distilled water ddw 10 min each.

no external contamination was detected.characterization of community composition of associated endophytic bacteria in p. aegyptiaca and its host rootdna was extracted from plant tissue using the cetyltrimethylammonium bromide ctab method   .dna from sterilized tissues of non-parasitized tomato roots parasitized tomato roots collected a few cm from parasite-attachment point and from the tubercle of the parasite spider stage.

therefore changes in parasite endophytic communities may affect parasitism and as a consequence plant community makeup.

