crc have been revealed to be associated with microbiota dysbiosis 3 and this dysbiosis further accelerates crc development 4. even susceptibility to crc is associated with the composition of gut microbiota 5-6. however the relationship between regulation of host gene expression and the gut microbiome that is critical for crc pathogenesis remain largely undefined limiting mechanistic experimentation and the development of preventative and adjunct therapies.as a microbiota modulator probiotics from a healthy human gut can adhere to mucosa and colonizethe colonic epithelium 7. an abundance of data support the notion that probiotics might have protective effects for crc 8. mechanistic findings have revealed that the use of probiotics could prevent crc by reducing fecal enzyme activity 9 inducing cancer cell apoptosis and ameliorating inflammation 10-11 as well as increasing production of tumor-suppressive ferrichrome 12. the action of probiotics may not be limited to these effects as more systematic evaluations of probiotic are needed in crc.over the past decade the understanding of crc- associated gut microbiota at the genus level was well- established with the development of culture-independent next generation sequencing ngs technology 13-14. however ngs was limited by short length reads with more operational taxonomic unit otu inference and the featured species could only be identified by sequencing the whole complex gut metagenome which came at a high expense 15. recently third generation sequencingtechnology based on whole length bacterial 16s rrna sequencing has been shown to be a more precise tool for evaluating gut microbiota composition 16. by using the pacbio rsii system crc-associated gut microbiota were characterized at the species level.in our previous work we demonstrated that lactobacillus casei zhang could enrich bacteroides fragilis and stimulate adiponectin receptor 2 signaling 17. it has reported that vitamin k2 also enrich bacteroides and vitamin k2-dependent osteocalcin can increase adiponectin expression18-19.

the expression of claudin15 clic4 and tgf-b were significantly higher in the colon tissue of za and nc mice compared with the colon tissue of cc mice figure 3b.consistently clcn3 expression in liver and colon were enhanced in the za group compared with the cc group figure 3c.sequencing data for the whole 16s rrna gene revealed variations in gut microbial composition following l. casei zhang or vitamin k2 administration suggesting that each intervention modulated the gut microbial community structure in distinctive ways figure 4a.

casei zhang with cancer induction group 6 miceza 4 x 109 cfud vitamin k2 with cancer induction group 6 micevk mk-7 addition was 50 mgkg diet and untreated controls 6 mice nc group.induction of colitis-associated colon cancerchronic colitis-associated colon cancer was induced using the well-established azoxymethanedextran sulfate sodium aomdss model 39. briefly mice received a single intraparietal injection of aom  12.5 mgkg body weight sigma.

together these data show that l. casei zhang and vitamin k2 can suppress gut risk microbes and promote beneficial microbial metabolites to reduce colonic tumor development in mice.introductioncolorectal cancer crc is a complex multifactorial digestive disease that is a major public health threat accounting for the third most cancer-related mortalities worldwide 1. the human colon harbors one hundred trillion gut microbes and approximately 80 of the body's immune cells 2 and both are directly related to the pathogenesis of crc.

casei zhang-treated mice also exhibited significantly increased osteocalcin levels compared with the cc group p  0.05 but the effect of vitamin k2 was modest figure 1e p  0.05.in the evaluation of colon histology the cc mice had severe inflammation and hyperplasia  while za and vk intervention resulted in reduced granulocytic infiltrate and hyperplasia suggesting an attenuated response to the aomdss treatment compared with the cc mice figure 2a.

moreover adiponectin exhibited anti-carcinogenic effects in colon tumorigenesis 20-21. thus we hypothesized that l. casei zhang and vitamin k2 might affect colon cancer by modulating the adiponectin.

caecum acetic acid and butyric acid levels from the nc mice were significantly raised compared with the cc group figure 5 p  0.05. l. casei zhang and vitamin k2 administration significantlyenhanced the secretion of caecum butyric acid and acetic acid figure 5 p  0.05.discussionhuman and animal studies have demonstrated that gut microbes and microbial products contribute to the etiology of crc 23. here we showed that both l. casei zhang and mk-7 were able to preserve liver metabolic functions and delay polyp development in the aom dss model of crc.

expectedly administration of l. casei zhang or vitamin k2 decreased susceptibility to colon carcinogenesis as fewer tumors and large-sized tumors were found figure 1b and 1c p  0.05. in addition serum adiponectin levels were significantly increased after l. casei zhang or vitamin k2 treatment compared with the model group figure 1d p  0.05. furthermorel.

a synergistic preventive effects against colon cancer was observed with vitamin d3 and the ampk agonist metformin 36. and vdr signaling has been associated with gut microbiota and chronic inflammation 37-38. however what is upstream of vdr signaling and its relation to gut microbes has not been fully explored.

this is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the creative commons attribution license cc-by which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.abstractthe incidence of colon cancer has increased considerably and the intestinal microbiota participate in the development of colon cancer.

our data showed gut microbiota and its product vitamin k2 determined the susceptibility to colon cancer via a complex mechanism.

additionally we examined signaling molecules potentially involved in the anti-carcinogenic effect.resultsto investigate whether l. casei zhang or vitamin k2 protect mice against intestinal carcinogenesis we subjected mice to a chemically-induced intestinal tumor protocol.

b comparison of colon polyp numbers from the nc cc za and vk mice n  6. c comparison of the number of large colon tumors from the nc cc za and vk micen  6. d serum adiponectin levels from the different groups.

2016 712365.wang t cai g qiu y fei n zhang m pang x jia w cai s zhao l. structural segregation of gut microbiota between colorectal cancer patients and healthy volunteers.

furthermore another study revealed that lactobacillus fermented yoghurt can boost the absorption of menaquinone-7 in human suggesting a synergistic effect of lactobacillus and menaquinone-7 22. considering all these we tried to compare the mechanical similarities and differences of l. casei zhang and vitamin k2 by enrolling these two treatments.to determine whether specific microbes participate in the pathogenesis of crc we used third generation sequencing technology to quantify gut species.

