most species within the acinetobacter genus are opportunistic pathogens especially acinetobacter baumannii which is one of the major problems in infectology due to the high frequency of drug multiresistance and its wide distribution in the environment.a.

values possibly indicating the presence of other antibodies cross-reacting with acinetobacter or less probably a wide-spread colonization by this microorganism.conclusionin the present work colonization of l. glama by bacteria of the acinetobacter genus was demonstrated for the first time.

2007. catheter-related bacteremia and multidrug- turton j. f. shah j. ozongwu c. and pike r. 2010. incidence of acinetobacter species other than a. baumannii among clinical isolates of acinetobacter evidence for emerging species.

edited byleonard peruski centers for disease control andprevention usareviewed by konstantin v. korotkov university of kentucky usa raul hector roosadiouniversidad de san marcos spaincorrespondence alejandro ferrari specialty sectionthis article was submitted toinfectious diseases a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 12 july 2016accepted 09 february 2017published 02 march 2017citation ledesma mm diaz am barberis c vay c manghi ma leoni jcastro ms and ferrari a 2017 identification of lama glama as reservoirs for acinetobacter lwoffii.front.

nevertheless we report for the first time the colonization of l. glama by bacteria of the acinetobacter lwoffii at a reliable level in 19.4 of the animals.

acinetobacter species are found in different environmental sources as well as vegetables animals and humans and their role in infections has recently gained relevance.

the results presented herein contribute to a better understanding of the respiratory microbiota in camelids and increase the knowledge about environmental distribution of acinetobacter non-baumanii species.

given that these respiratory bacteria might be the cause of infection among cattle and even humans this report highlights the need for further research.keywords lama glama acinetobacter serology malditof-msintroductionthe family of south american camelids sacs comprises four species llama lama glama alpaca lama pacos guanaco lama guanicoe and vicugna vicugna vicugna.

glama by respiratory bacteria belonging to the genres acinetobacter pasteurella and mannheimia and to assess the value of serology for clinical diagnosis.

biochemical reactions were observed after inoculation of 1-2 colonies of pure culture.colonies matching biochemical characteristics of acinetobacter pasteurella mannheimia were selected for further identification.

although one of the 14 proved to be arthrobacter oxydans with a score of 2.11 and 6 out of 14 had not reliable scores for acinetobacter lwoffii the remaining 7 were confirmed to be a. lwoffii with a reliable score 4 of them with scores ranging from 1.70 to 1.99 and 3 of them with scores ranging from 2.00 to 3.00 as seen in table 1. taken together these results show that at least 19.4 of the animals 7 out of 36 carried a. lwoffii as identified with a reliable score by the malditof-ms method.

this value could be used as an estimation of a. lwoffii colonization rate in the herd.detection of specific antibodies by elisaaccording to the microbiological analysis positive and negative populations were defined for the presence of acinetobacter spp.

the antigen-recognition pattern did not differ significantly among culture-negative and culture-positive serum samples.serological survey in animals from other regions within argentinain order to assess whether the high prevalence of acinetobacter colonization and the lack of difference in serological tests between colonized and non-colonized animals was exclusivevalues.

nevertheless no specific pattern could be assigned to neither positive nor negative samples.discussionbacteria belonging to the genus acinetobacter are short pleomorphic gram-negative bacillococci.

acinetobacter infection may be endemic or epidemic with important and hard-to-limit outbreaks.

