The major TMA-producing bacterial genera could be from the genera that positively correlated with TMA concentration.Key words flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 rapeseed meal trimethylamine trimethylamine-producing bacteria laying henINTRODUCTIONThe inherited metabolic disorder trimethylaminuria known as fishy-egg tainting in hens and fish malodor syndrome in humans is characterized by high lev- els of malodorous trimethylamine TMA in egg yolk Hobson-Frohock et al.

These mutations impair or abolish the ability of FMO3 to convert TMA to trimethylamine N-oxide TMAO and cause TMA accumulation and metabolism disor- der Ward et al.

510.Caporaso J. G. J. Kuczynski J. Stombaugh K. Bittinger F. D. Bushman E. K. Costello N. Fierer A. G. Pena J. K. GoodrichJ.

Our data also indicate a sig- nificantly positive correlation of abundance of Firmi- cutes and Proteobacteria with TMA concentration in the cecal chyme while abundance of Bacteroidetes neg- atively correlated with TMA concentration in the cecal chyme Figure .

This mutation was fur- ther confirmed to be responsible for the elevated levels of yolk TMA and the subsequent fishy flavor in eggs Ward et al.

TMA metabolism load and fish odor syndrome of lay- ing hens are often induced by feeding rapeseed meal Ward et al.

It also was supposed that both Enterobacteriaceae and gram-positive bacteria were involved in TMA forma- tion in the gut Zentek et al.

The other chyme samples were quick-frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at -80C until processed for DNA extraction.TMA determinationThe TMA analysis in egg yolk and in the cecal chyme was performed by head-space gas chromatography as described previously Yamazaki et al.

TMA levels in the cecal chyme of hens fed a high choline-containing diet 4000 mgkg were significantly higher than the levels of hens fed a control diet Danicke et al.

These phylaRAPESEED MEAL AND CECAL MICROBIOTA1757might also play an important role in TMA produc- tion.ThecutCgenewhichencodescholine-TMA- generating enzymes was acquired through horizontal gene transfer Martinez-Del Campo et al.

