the journal of immunology 2017 198 3195-3204.elicobacter pylori is a microaerophilic gram-negative spiral-shaped bacterium that selectively establishes lifelong colonization of the gastric mucosa in .50 ofthe human population 1 2. approximately 10-15 of h. pylori- infected individuals will eventually develop gastroduodenal ulcers and h. pylori carriers have a .2-fold greater risk of de- veloping gastric cancer in the form of b cell lymphoma of malt lymphoma or adenocarcinoma 3 4. despite the reported links between gut pathologies and h. pylori its role as a beneficial and dominant member of the human gastric microbiota is emerging through epidemiological clinical and experimental data illus- trating that it might actually protect from esophageal cancer asthma obesity-induced insulin resistance and inflammatory bowel disease ibd 5-10. this dual role of h. pylori as a commensal and pathogenic organism denotes a complex context- dependent interaction with its host and provides a means oftracking the induction of mucosal effector or regulatory responses to a single organism.h.

these data suggest that the increase in il-10-producing mnps that follows colonization of the gastric mucosa by h. pylori could condition the tissue environment to favor the induction of cd4pd-1 tr1-like and foxp3 treg cell-mediated regulatory responses.il-10 is required for high levels of h. pylori colonizationto further evaluate the role of il-10 during the initial phases of colonization we performed il-10 neutralization studies in mice infected with h. pylori and compared their response to control mice that received an isotype ab.

thirty years after this discovery it isbroadly accepted that h. pylori can predispose carriers to develop serious gastric pathologies 51 52. however emerging clinical and epidemiological data support the theory that h. pylori might also be a beneficial commensal organism and its disappearance has been linked to an increased incidence of diseases such as asthma or ibd 53 54. indeed h. pylori's ability to establish life-long chronic colonization of the gastric mucosal niche has been linked to the induction of potent regulatory responses that dampen effector mechanisms of bacterial eradication although the induction of these responses has been attributed mainly to the modulation of dcs as opposed to macrophages 55-57. in any case the mechanisms underlying the induction of these protective responses are not fully understood.

pylori-associated atrophic gastritis compared with uncompli- cated gastritis indicating the potential contribution of m1-like macrophages to lesion development 60. furthermore pparg polymorphisms in humans are associated with an increased risk of developing h. pylori-related gastric cancer 61. although the importance of pparg in the host response to h. pylori has been established in previous studies the mechanisms underlying the protective actions of gastric h. pylori colonization remain in- completely understood.

although cx3cr1 was constitutively expressed in monocytes only pparg activation upregulated cx3cr1 expression by directly binding to pparg response element consensus sites on the cx3cr1 promoter 62.indeed infection with h. pylori caga strains has been associ- ated with increased levels of oxidized low-density lipoproteins in the plasma of human subjects with more severe coronary athero- sclerosis 63. in line with this we demonstrate r. hontecillas unpublished observations that coculture of h. pylori with bone marrow-derived macrophages upregulates cx3cr1 although mrna expression is suppressed in pparg-deficient bone marrow-derived macrophages.to further investigate the mechanisms by which mnps are implicated in facilitating bacterial colonization we first performed a depletion study to confirm that the temporary loss of phagocytic cells results in suppressed h. pylori burden in the stomach.

h. pylori was grown on plates prepared with difco columbia agar base bd biosci- ences supplemented with 7 of laked horse blood lampire biological laboratories and h. pylori selective supplement containing 10 mgl vancomycin 5 mgl trimethoprim 5 mgl amphotericin and 5 mgl polymyxin from oxoid at 37c under microaerophilic conditions.

these analyses demonstrate the presence of a complex system of myeloid cells in the stomach mucosa that has not been previously described and its composition is signifi- cantly altered due to the loss of pparg in lysmcre mice.macrophages accumulate in the gastric mucosa of h. pylori- infected micewe performed a time-course study spanning the first 7 wk post- infection because the drop in h. pylori loads in lysmcre mice consistently occurs between weeks 2 and 3 postinfection.

to assess how the absence of il- 10 could affect downstream effector responses we cultured cells obtained from gastric lymph nodes of h. pylori-infected mice that were either treated with il-10 neutralizing or control abs and stimulated them ex vivo with inactivated whole h. pylori ss1.

we provide evidence that mnps can fa- cilitate h. pylori colonization by promoting il-10 responses.the prevailing theory is that the regulatorysuppressor responses associated with h. pylori gastric infection are induced by dcs 18 19 55 58 and not by macrophages.

although our profiling data do not provide definitive evidence of this subset being responsible for the induction of the regulatory responses that facilitate optimal colo- nization that they 1 accumulate in the stomach following h. pylori infection 2 are the subset most affected cell by clodronate treat- ment and 3 produce il-10 constitutively make them the cell type most likely responsible for inducing a regulatory microenvironment in the gastric mucosa during h. pylori infection.

these macrophages expand following h. pylori infection most likely by proliferating locally based on brdu data and they impose an il-10-dominated tissue microenvironment that dampens effector responses particularly th17 against h. pylori and thereby facilitate a more effective colonization.

h. lee m. ricote c. k. glass h. b. brewer jr. and f. j. gonzalez.

depletion of phagocytic cells by clodronate liposomes in wild-type mice resulted in a reduction of gastric h. pylori colonization compared with nontreated mice.

il-10 neutralization during h. pylori infection led to increased il-17- mediated responses and increased neutrophil accumulation at the gastric mucosa.

in conclusion we report the induction of il-10-driven regulatory responses mediated by cd11bf480hicd64cx3cr1 mononuclear phagocytes that contribute to main- taining high levels of h. pylori loads in the stomach by modulating effector t cell responses at the gastric mucosa.

