the cells were mounted using vectashield mounting medium with dapi vector laboratories burlingame ca usa and the cells were counted in at least 10 different high power fields and the percent of apoptosis induction was calculated.annexin v-pi assayhuh 7 cells 2x105 cellswell were incubated with butyrate alone or butyrate and n-acetyl cysteine or butyrate and anti-mir-22 oligos for 24 h. after incubation the cells were detached using 0.05 trypsin from the plates washed and incubated with annexin v-conjugated with fluorescein isothiocyanate fitc and propidium iodide for 30 min.

addition of nac in mir-22 transfected cells resulted in increased bcl2 expres- sion 2.8 fold and decreased expression of cytochrome c cleaved caspase-3 and cleaved caspase-9 3.37 4.7 and 6.1 fold respectively compared to mir-22 transfected cells a.to study whether the butyrate-mediated effects are through mir- 22 the cells were transfected with anti-mir-22 oligos followed by butyrate incubation.

although several scanty reports show the mechanisms by which butyrate mediates apoptosis in cancer cells no clear relationship is available between butyrate and theinduction of apoptosis.sirt-1 a member of histone deacetylase protein family is widely expressed in the hepatoma cells which helps in the tumor cell survival and growth .

sirt-1 knockdown enhanced the chemosensitivity of h292 cells to cisplatin and reduced the tumor volume and the metastatic ability of the cells in nude mice .

in the present study we demonstrated that butyrate induces apoptosis through up-regulation of mir-22 followed by the downregulation of sirt-1 resulting in increased ros production and apoptosis in hepatic cells.materials and methodscell culture butyrate treatment and mirna transfectionhuh 7 cells 1x105 cellswell were cultured in 6-well plates containing dmem medium with 10 fbs and 1 penicillin-strepto- mycin for 24 h. the cells were incubated with varying concentrations 0-8 mm of sodium butyrate for 24 h under serum-free conditions.

the percent of ros production was calculated by counting in at least 10 different high power fields averaged and the results were presented.measurement of mitochondrial membrane potentialthe cells 4x105 cellswell were incubated with butyrate alone or mir-22 alone or butyrate and anti-mir-22 together for 24 h. the cells were fixed by 4 paraformaldehyde washed and 100 nm dioc6 was incubated for 15 min in dark as described previously .

the cells were washed using phosphate buffered saline and observed under fluorescence microscope.abts assayin order to quantitate the total free radicals scavenging activity or the total cellular antioxidants the cells 2x105 cellswell were plated and incubated with butyrate alone butyrate and anti-mir-22 oligos for 24 h. the cell lysates were prepared and equal amount of protein was incubated with 22'-azino-bis 3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulphonic acid abts 200 ul of 7 mm for 5 min at room temperature .

the percentage of sod activity was calculated.tunel terminal deoxynucleotide transferase dutp nick end labeling assayhuh 7 cells 2x105 cellswell were incubated with butyrate alone or butyrate and n-acetyl cysteine or butyrate and anti-mir-22 oligos for 24 h. after incubation the cells were washed fixed using 4 paraformaldehyde and the apoptosis was detected using the in situ cell death detection kit roche diagnostics basel switzerland as per the manufacturer's instructions.

e the target sequence of the mir-22 was positioned at 530-537 of 3' utr region of sirt-1.butyrate inhibits sirt-1 expression via mir-22incubation of huh 7 cells with butyrate inhibited the sirt-1 expression in a concentration-dependent manner 1-5 mm and inhibition at 5 mm concentration was most significant 73 inhibition a. sodium butyrate 5 mm was incubated with cells for different time periods for up to 24 h and the data showed maximum inhibition of sirt-1 was found at 24 h 90 inhibition b. next the effect of mir-22 on sirt-1 expression was determined.

b. the positive cells and the total cells were counted in at least 10 different high power fields and the average is calculated and presented as percent of ros production.

the results showed that incubation of cells with either butyrate alone or mir-22 alone showed increased green colour compared to control while addition of anti-mir-22 with butyrate did not result significant change in m compared to control .butyrate induces ros-mediated intrinsic apoptosisros is known to induce apoptosis via mitochondrial pathway in various cancer cells.

the treatment of cells with butyrate in presence of anti-mir-22 oligos increased bcl-2 expression 2.4 fold and decreased the expression of cytochrome c caspase 9 and caspase 3 1.3 5.1 and 8.1 fold respectively compared to butyrate alone treatment group b. similarly addition of nac along with butyrate induced bcl-2 expression 2.1 fold and inhibited the apoptotic genes including cytochrome c 1.8 fold cleaved caspase 9 6.3 fold and cleaved caspase 3 7.3 fold compared to the cells treated with butyrate c. further apoptosis induction was determined by annexin v-pi assay which showed that there was a significant increase in apoptosis with butyrate treatment while butyrate-induced apoptosisfig.

n3 p  0.05.was inhibited by co-incubating with either nac or anti-mir-22 d. to confirm these findings a tunel assay was performed and found that butyrate treated cells showed increased percentage of the tunel positive cells 79.1 while addition of either nac or anti- mir-22 inhibited the butyrate-induced cell death 28.3  38.4 respectively e and f.butyrate inhibits cell proliferationfurther to determine the effects of the butyrate on cell proliferation the key proteins involved in the cancer cell growth was estimated by western blotting.

in the butyrate-treated cells abts free radicals were found to be significantly decreased 12.2 and was reversed significantly in the presence of anti-mir-22 a. real time rt-pcr analysis of the sod2 gene indicated that there was a significant decrease 0.3 fold in butyrate treated cells and the presence of anti-mir-22 along with butyrate could significantly prevent the butyrate-mediated sod2 gene expression b. the sod activity from the total cellular protein was found to be inhibited 63.8 by butyrate treatment while this was partially recovered 88.1 by anti-mir-22 c.discussionbeing an hdac inhibitor butyrate has been evaluated in clinical trials as a potential anticancer drug for treating human cancer .

it has been shown that it can inhibit tumor progression via suppressing histone deacetylase and can induce apoptosis in cancer cells.

