To provide increased resolution of the diseases that may have affected Neanderthals we also deeply sequenced 147 million reads dental calculus from the best-preserved Neanderthal El Sidron 1 which suffered from a dental abscess.Size-based PCR-amplification biases can confound standard metabar- coding analyses for example sequencing of 16S ribosomal rRNA amplicons of ancient dental calculus.

Here we report the first genetic analysis of dental calculus from five Neanderthals two individuals from El Sidron cave in Spain two individuals from Spy cave in Belgium and one individual from Breuil Grotta in Italy and compare these data to a historic wild-caught chimpanzee n  1 and modern human n  1 as well as to low coverage sequencing of calculus from a wide-range of ancient humans Supplementary Table 1.

24Department of Archaeology University of Aberdeen Aberdeen UK.25Department of Archaeology Simon Fraser University Burnaby British Columbia Canada.2 0 A P R I L 2 0 1 7  V O L 5 4 4  N A T U R E  3 5 7 Modern humanSpy IIEISidron1 16S FilteredSpyI 16S Filtereda SpyI 16S UnfilteredEISidron2 16S Unfiltered SpyII 16S Unfiltered Chimp 16S UnfilteredSpyII 16S Filtered EISidron1 16S unfiltered Modern 16S Filtered Modern 16S UnfilteredModern Shotgun 16S Modern Shotgun Unfiltered Modern Shotgun Filtered SpyI Shotgun 16SSpyI Shotgun Unfiltered SpyI Shotgun Filtered Chimp 16S FilteredEISidron2 16S Filtered SpyII Shotgun 16SSpyII Shotgun Unfiltered SpyII Shotgun FilteredChimpanzeeNeanderthalsBacteria Actinobacteria Bacteria Firmicutes Bacteria Bacteroidetes Bacteria Fusobacteria Bacteria Proteobacteria Bacteria Spirochaetes Bacteria Synergistetes Bacteria otherArchaea Euryarchaeota Archea otherVirusesEl Sidron 1Chimpanzee 16S amplicon sequencingElSidron1 Shotgun 16SElSidron1 Shotgun Unfiltered ElSidron1 Shotgun Filtered ElSidron2 Shotgun 16S ElSidron2 Shotgun UnfilteredElSidron2 Shotgun Filtered Chimp Shotgun Filtered Chimp Shotgun Unfiltered Chimp Shotgun 16SModern humanPlantsFungi EukaryotaForager-0.07Shotgun sequencingFigure 1  Comparison of 16S amplicon and shotgun sequencing datasets obtained from ancient historic and modern dental calculus samples.

Only 4 appeared to be under putative positive selection dNdS1 and include regions for conjugal gene transfer that is uptake of foreign or plasmid DNA traB and DNA-mismatch repair mutT.Preserved dental calculus represents a notable source of informationabout behaviour diet and health of ancient hominin specimens as well as a unique long-term system that can be used to study how hundreds of different microbial species have evolved and spread among hominins.Online Content Methods along with any additional Extended Data display items and Source Data are available in the  references unique to these sections appear only in the online paper.Received 2 August 2016 accepted 30 January 2017.Published online 8 March 2017.Green R. E. et al.

The shotgun-sequencing datasets from the three remaining robust Neanderthal samples El Sidron 1 El Sidron 2 and Spy II contained an average of 93.76 bacterial 5.91 archaeal 0.27 eukaryotic and 0.06 viral identifiable sequences similar to previously published ancient and modern human dental calculusand .

Preprint at 2016.Germonpre M. Udrescu M.  Fiers E. The fossil mammals of Spy.Anthropologica et Praehistorica 1232012 298-327 2013.Cregut-bonnoure E. Nouvelles donnees paleogeographiques et chronologiques sur les Caprinae Mammalia Bovidae du Pleistocene moyen et superieur d'Europe.

Here we describe the shotgun-sequencing of ancient DNA from five specimens of Neanderthal calcified dental plaque calculus and the characterization of regional differences in Neanderthal ecology.

DNA preserved within dental calculus represents a notable source of information about the behaviour and health of ancient hominin specimens as well as a unique system that is useful for the study of long-term microbial evolution.Neanderthals remain our closest known extinct hominin relatives who co-existed and occasionally interbred with anatomically modern humans across Eurasia in the Late Pleistocene epoch.

Raw and analysed sequence data and all analytical codes used in this study are publically available in the Online Ancient Gene Repository  under the study 'Reconstructing Neandertal behaviour diet and disease using ancient DNA from dental calculus.'

...Bacteria FirmicutesII Bacteria ActinobacteriaExtended Data Figure 6  The composition of DNA sequences within ancient dental calculus in contrast to laboratory and environmental controls.

