egcg effectively attenuated the level of sope2-cpg2-ha in a dose-dependent manner with an ic50 of 2.15 lm a-c. moreover fluorescence and western blot analysis of the bacterial lysates from egcg-treated s. typhi- murium indicated that the expression of the sope2-cpg2-ha wasnot impaired a b. to alleviate the concern of bacterial tox- icity by egcg we showed that egcg did not affect s. typhimurium growth at 100 lm d. taken together these data show thategcg is a non-bactericidal and potent plant-derived metabolite that inhibits spi-1 t3ss substrates.epigallocatechin gallate inhibits spi-1 t3ss-mediated invasion of host cellswe then investigated the invasion of s. typhimurium into hela cells with the presence of egcg.

s. typhimurium grown in the presence of egcg showed significant reduction in its ability to invade the cultured hela cells a. the inhibitoryeffect of egcg at 100 lm was similar to that of a non-invasive s.typhimurium strain with an insertion mutation in the inva genea b. the inhibition of bacterial invasion could also be readily observed by immunofluorescence analysis of intracellu- lar s. typhimurium c. collectively our results demonstrated that egcg did not affect bacterial growth but could potently inhi- bit spi-1 t3ss-dependent s. typhimurium invasion of host cells.conclusionthe flavonoid egcg is most abundant and bioactive catechin in green teawith diverse pharmacological activities in mammalian cellsand virusesbut its effects on gram-negative bacte- ria t3ss-mediated virulence have not been described.

c dose-dependent effect of egcg epicatechin gallate chrysin inp0007 and baicalein on the levels of spi-1 t3ss secreted proteins sipa sipb sopb sipc and sipd and flagella components in s. typhimurium growth media.epigallocatechin gallate inhibits secretion of s. typhimurium spi-1 t3ss substrates in vitroas epigallocatechin gallate egcg is the major polyphenolic components among the tea derived catechins we compared the activities of egcg and ecg with previously reported t3ss inhibi- tors baicalein and inp0007 on endogenously secreted spi-1 t3ss effectors from the growth media of s. typhimurium c. with chrysin as the inactive control all active compounds treated s. typhimurium growth media exhibited dose-dependent reduction of spi-1 t3ss substrates such as sipa sipb sopb sipc and sipd c. in addition both egcg and ecg also exhibited a pronounced effect on the level of flic and flid two proteins asso- ciated with bacterial flagella.

epigallocatechin-3-gallate inhibits bacterial virulence and invasion of host cellslun k. tsou  jacob s. yount  howard c. hang a laboratory of chemical biology and microbial pathogenesis the rockefeller university new york ny 10065 usab institute of biotechnology and pharmaceutical research national health research institutes zhunan town miaoli county 35053 taiwan rocc department of microbial infection and immunity center for microbial interface biology the ohio state university columbus oh 43210 usaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 19 january 2017revised 8 march 2017accepted 9 march 2017available online 10 march 2017a b s t r a c t increasing antibiotic resistance and beneficial effects of host microbiota has motivated the search for anti-infective agents that attenuate bacterial virulence rather than growth.

here we demonstrate that egcg targets bacterial virulence with potent inhibitory activity in blocking spi-1 t3ss-dependent s. typhimur- ium invasion of host cells.

as egcg also contains polyphenolicfunctionality similar to baicalein and quercetin the uptake and reactivity of these plant metabolites may covalently react with t3ss substrates and inactivate these secreted bacterial protein effectors to attenuate pathogen virulence pathways.

3. egcg inhibits spi-1 t3ss-mediated bacterial invasion of epithelial cells.

here we show epigallocatechin-3-gallate from green tea extracts also inhibits the activity of s. typhimurium type iii protein effectors and significantly reduces bacterial invasion into host cells.

these results reveal additional dietary plant metabolites that can attenuate bacterial virulence and infec- tion of host cells.c 2017 published by elsevier ltd.introductionthe discovery of specific microbial virulence mechanisms has motivated the search for anti-infective agents that attenuate bacte- rial pathogenesis mechanisms instead of growth.for example the essential function of type iii secretion systems t3sss in gram-negative bacteria virulence has highlighted these protein translocation organelles as prime targets for next-generation anti-infectives.

in the absence of t3sss bacterial pathogens such as salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium s. typhimurium cannot inject ''effector proteins into host cells to manipulate sig- naling pathways for invasion and intracellular replication.

beyond salmonella t3sss are also crucial for the pathogenesis of other gram-negative bacterial pathogens including shigella pseu- domonas enteropathogenic escherichia coli epec enterohemor- rhagic escherichia coli ehec chlamydia and yersinia.to identify t3ss inhibitors we have explored traditional medic- inal extracts and discovered that specific flavonoids could attenu- ate s. typhimurium invasion of epithelial cells through covalent inactivation of the salmonella pathogenicity island -1 spi-1 t3ss substrates and effectors.

based on these initial findings we explored additional plant metabolites from other medicinal and dietary sources with proposed anti-infective activities towards gram-negative bacterial pathogens.

here we show that epigallo- catechin-3-gallate egcg a major metabolite from green teaa corresponding author.e-mail address h.c. hang.previously reported inhibitor of a-synuclein amyloid forma- tionand hepatitis c viral entryalso effectively inhibits s. typhimurium t3ss and invasion of host cells.results and discussionanalysis of polyphenolic catechins on s. typhimurium type iii protein secretionto explore other anti-infective plant metabolites we used a sensitive two-component enzymatic reporter system sope2- cpg2-haglu-cyfur for monitoring type iii protein secretion ins.

this two-component assay takes advantage of the unique enzyme activity of carboxypeptidase g2 cpg2 that when attached to the c-terminus of a known s. typhimurium bacterial effector sope2 can rapidly and specifically report on type iii protein secre- tion through cleavage of fluorogenic substrates glu-cyfur a.amongst the plant metabolites we explored polyphe- nolic catechins such as catechin gallate cg and epicatechin gal- late ecg completely inhibited sope2-cpg2-ha reporter activity whereas catechin and gallic acid had less than 20 inhibitory activ-ity at 25 lm b. in addition co-incubation of catechin withgallic acid showed marginal improvement in the inhibitory activi- ties when compared to either catechin or gallic acid alone b. these data suggest the catechin core must be covalently coupled with gallic acid for optimal inhibitory activity against the t3ss- dependent sope2-cpg2-ha reporter activity.

sope2-cpg2-ha spi-1 t3ss adopts enzymatic activity of carboxypeptidase g2 cpg2 that when fused to the c-terminus of sope2 a known s. typhimurium t3ss bacterial effector can be secreted and used for monitoring type iii protein secretion via cleavage of fluorogenic substrates glu-cyfur.

