this hypothesis is based on the observation that cvb3 replicates equally well in the hearts of male and female mice yet only male mice develop increased cardiac damage due to sex-specific immune responses .while previous mouse experiments have provided vital insights into cvb3 patho- genesis they are based on systemic infection of cvb3 rather than infection by the natural fecal-oral route.

overall these data suggest that cvb3 replicates more efficiently in the intestine of male ifnar-- mice than in female ifnar-- mice.next to determine if the loss of the type i ifn response contributed to sex- dependent cvb3 replication in the intestine we quantified cvb3 fecal titers in wild- type immunocompetent c57bl6 mice.

here we orally infected mice with coxsackievirus b3 cvb3 and found that cvb3 replication in the intestine is sex de- pendent.

here we describe an oral inoculation mouse model of cvb3 to examine cvb3 replication and lethality following initial intestinal infection.

to investigate replication of cvb3 in the gastrointestinal tract we orally inoculated male and female c57bl6 ifnar-- mice deficient for the alphabeta-interferon ifn-af3 receptor with 5 x 107 pfu of the nancy strain of cvb3 cvb3-nancy.

therefore we differen- tiated between inoculum and replicated cvb3 in feces of male mice using light- sensitive cvb3.

overall these data suggest that survival following oral inoculation of cvb3 is sex dependent in ifnar-- mice.the type i ifn response affects sex-dependent replication of cvb3 in periph- eral tissues following i.p.

however we found that viral titers in the liver and spleen of male mice were significantly higher than those in female mice  suggesting that replication of cvb3 in the liver and spleen of ifnar-- micefig 3 cvb3 replication in peripheral tissues following i.p.

these data indicate that orally inoculated female ifnar-- mice do not elicit a strong immune response at 72 hpi.next we investigated whether cvb3 infection of male and female ifnar-- mice by the oral route induces an adaptive immune response to cvb3.

these data suggest that male but not female ifnar-- mice produce neutralizing serum against cvb3 following oral inoculation.sex hormones alter intestinal cvb3 shedding and lethality.

while ovariectomy did not enhance cvb3 lethality ovariectomized female mice shed significantly more cvb3 than surgery-control female mice at 24 hpi and .

overall these data suggest that female mice are resistant to cvb3 intestinal infection and that factors in the intestinal environment may play a key role in sex-dependent cvb3 replication.

therefore sex-specific bacteria may contribute to the replication of cvb3 within the intestine.in conclusion we found that cvb3 replication and lethality are higher in orally inoculated male mice than in female mice due to differential viral replication in the intestine.

cvb3 replicated efficiently in the intestine of male mice but not female mice.

overall these data suggest that sex and the immune response play a vital role in cvb3 replication in the intestine and should be considered in light of the sex bias observed in human disease.importance sex bias in severe sequelae from enteric viral infections has been ob- served.

