All p-values are compared with SBR WT  p  0.03  p  0.02 B Representative HE staining 4x magnification of liver from mice at 10 weeks following 50 SBR in TLR4 KO and WT mice unoperated WT mice subjected to the same diet and sham-operated WT mice.

We also measured proliferation and apoptosis at 10 weeks after resection and found that while there was no difference in apoptosis however proliferation was significantly increased in the TLR4 KO mice p  0.005 A-B.Resection-associated steatosisAt 10 weeks after SBR WT mice had significant liver steatosis 4.6 - 1 compared to unoperated mice 0.14 - 0.03 p  0.001 or sham-operated mice 0.0013 - 0.03.

Data are presented as mean-SEM N  4 WT N  4 TLR4 KO  p  0.005.liver steatosis after SBR 0.08 - 0.03 was similar to both unoperated and sham-operated mice A-B.TLR4 expressionGiven the clear lack of steatosis in the TLR4 KO mice we sought to investigate TLR4 mRNA expression in the liver after SBR in WT mice.

These findings have been previously reported in rats in which intestinal resection increases TLR-4 mRNA and ligand protein expression in the remnant bowel .We have previously described significantly greater culturable Gram- negative organisms in the liver and mesenteric lymph nodes in mice after SBR when compared to mice undergoing sham operation transection of the bowel with reanastomosis alone .

Since SBR is associated with alterations in the gut microbiome the purpose of this study was to determine whether TLR4 signaling is critical to the development of resection-associated hepatic steatosis.Methods Male C57BL6 control and TLR4-knockout KO mice underwent 50 proximal SBR.

So we designed an experiment in which we operated on TLR-4 global knockout mice and control mice gave them a 50 bowel resection waited ten weeks and sacrificed the an- imals.

When we looked up their livers of the control mice you see significant steatosis but in the TLR4 knockout mice there was no steatosis.

We recently demonstrated accelerated hepatic steatosis after 50 small bowel resection SBR in mice.

Intestinal TLR4 mRNA expression was measured at 7 days and 10 weeks.Results Compared to controls TLR4 KO mice demonstrated similar weight gain and morphological adaptation after SBR.

At present it remains unknown whether IFALD and NAFLD NASH share the same mechanistic pathways to induce liver steatosis.Recently we discovered significant liver steatosis after SBR compared with unoperated mice with similar food intake and body weight .

