polarity differentiation and tight junction integrity are critical for the study of the functionality of epithelial transport systems.with respect to models the typical cell lines used currently in intestinal epithelial transport research are caco-2 a model of fully differentiated absorptive small intestinal epithelial cells and t84 cells or ht-29 subclones models of crypt-derived large intestinal epithelial cells1.

taking into consideration the challenges in the field with respect to models and the measurement of transport function we demonstrate here a protocol to grow caco-2 cells in 3d and describe the use of an ussing chamber as an effective approach to measure serotonin transport such as in intact polarized intestinal epithelia.correspondence to ravinder k. gill these authors contributed equallyvideo linkthe video component of this article can be found at disclosuresthe authors have nothing to disclose.anabazhagan et al.page 2keywordscellular biology issue 121 transport function stripping mucosa ussing chamber 3d caco-2 staining of 3d cells serotonin transporter sertintroductionthe intestinal epithelium is equipped with various transport proteins channels atpases co- transporters and exchangers that perform numerous functions ranging from the absorption of nutrients electrolytes and drugs to the secretion of fluid and ions in the lumen.

in addition we describe methods to study sert function and regulation by tgf-b1 a pleiotropic cytokine in small intestinal mucosa by utilizing an ussing chamber technique.protocolstudy of intestinal transporters in a 3d culture system of caco-2 growing 3d caco-2 cell culture on a gelatinous protein mixturethaw growth factor reduced gelatinous protein mixture on ice for 8 h or on at 4 degc.

please click here to view a larger version of this figure.anabazhagan et al.page 12figure 2. sert protein expression in caco-2 cells grown in 2d and 3dlysates from caco-2 cells cultured on a plastic support and caco-2 3d spheres were resolved by sds-page blotted onto nitrocellulose membranes and analyzed with the sert antibody and gapdh.

however to mimic the physiological organization of intestinal epithelial cells there has been considerable interest in the development of a caco-2 culture in 3d.

in all cases the magnitude of the gt or rt can be a real-time indicator of viability and can be useful in discriminating between the specific and nonspecific effects of tested reagents.in summary the methods described here can facilitate our understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms governing the function and regulation of epithelial transporters inanabazhagan et al.page 9healthy and diseased conditions such as intestinal inflammation infectious diarrhea malabsorption or metabolic disorders.acknowledgmentswe thank mr. christopher manzella mdphd student in the rkg laboratory for helping to edit and proofread our manuscript.referencessimon-assmann p turck n sidhoum-jenny m gradwohl g kedinger m. in vitro models of intestinal epithelial cell differentiation.

thus ecm-based natural hydrogels containing common components such as laminin collagen iv and heparin sulfate proteoglycan are extensively used for the generation of 3d cell cultures16.the protocol described here demonstrates the suitability of 3d caco-2 cells grown in gelatinous protein mixture an ecm-based natural hydrogel extracted from engelbreth- holm-swarm ehs mouse tumors for epithelial transport research.

 methods to study epithelial transport protein function and expression in native intestine and caco-2 cells grown in 3darivarasu n. anabazhagan1 ishita chatterjee1 shubha priyamvada1 anoop kumar1 sangeeta tyagi1 seema saksena12 waddah a. alrefai12 pradeep k. dudeja12 and ravinder k. gill11department of medicine university of illinois at chicago2department of research jesse brown va medical centerabstractthe intestinal epithelium has important transport and barrier functions that play key roles in normal physiological functions of the body while providing a barrier to foreign particles.

this is further evident from an increase in the accumulation of radiolabeled 5-ht in the cell which was sensitive to inhibition by fluoxetine reflecting the activity of sert expressed on the luminal membrane.discussionfully differentiated caco-2 cell monolayers have been used extensively as polarized epithelial monolayers to study intestinal transport101112131415.

the 3d caco-2 cysts at 10 - 12 days show polarity and more differentiation than 2d caco-2 cells grown on transwells17 unpublished observations.

2008 1834625-633. pubmed 19001128martel f monteiro r lemos c. uptake of serotonin at the apical and basolateral membranes of human intestinal epithelial caco-2 cells occurs through the neuronal serotonin transporter sert.

further to minimize the influence of the intrinsic neuromuscular system seromuscular stripping of intestinal mucosa can be performed to investigate the regulation of transporters in the epithelium8.we demonstrate that caco-2 cells grown in 3d on gelatinous protein form a hollow lumen expressing distinct apical and basolateral markers.

sert is a known target of anti-depressants and has recently emerged as a novel therapeutic target of gi disorders such as diarrhea and intestinal inflammation.methods to investigate 5-ht uptake in intestinal epithelial cells have been previously described.

using the in vitro 3d cell culture and mouse intestinal mucosa we describe here simple methods to study the regulation of the intestinal serotonin transporter slc6a4 sert.the sert transporter regulates the extracellular availability of an important hormone and neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine 5-ht by rapidly transporting it through a nacl-- dependent process.

change medium every 3 - 4 d.anabazhagan et al.page 4immunofluorescence staining for epithelial transporters in 3d caco-2 cells day 1aspirate the medium and fix the cells with 400 ml of 2 paraformaldehyde pfa in pbs with the ph adjusted to 8.5 with naoh for 30 min at rt.note pfa solution should not be stored for more than 1 week at 4 degc and freshly made solution can be used.

