murciaspain and black peat klasmann were used for the bioassay and their physico-chemical and chemical characteristics were compost ph 6.71 electrical conductivity ms cm-1 1.89n  0.89 p  0.06 k  0.69 cn 43.58 humidity  69.93. peat ph 6.34 electricalconductivity ms cm-1 0.51 n  0.97 p  0.7 k  0.6 cn 50 humidity  70.four treatments were assayed cpth compost and black peat fortified with t. harzianum 106 cfu g-1 substrate cpta compost and black peat fortified with t. asperellum 106 cfu g-1 substrate cp compost and black peat p black peat 100. seeds of pepper capsicum annuum cv.

pcpth compost and black peat fortified with t. harzianum pcpta compost and black peat fortified with t. asperellum pcp compost and black peat pp peat inoculated with p. nicotianae.

cpth compost and black peat fortified with t. harzianum cpta compost and black peat fortified with t. asperellum cp compost and black peat p peat.

cpth compost and black peat fortified with t. harzianum cpta compost and black peat fortified with t. asperellum cp compost and black peat p peat.

cpth compost and black peat fortified with t. harzianum cpta compost and black peat fortified with t. asperellum cp compost and black peat p peat.

cpth compost and black peat fortified with t. harzianum cpta compost and black peat fortified with t. asperellum cp compost and black peat p peat.

quantification of t. asperellum and t. harzianum in different treatments at the beginning of the experiment 0 days and after harvesting 28 days.nd not detectedthe relative abundance at the phylum level varied across the different samples .some differences were found between p. nicotianae non-infected compost treatments cpth cpta and cp and peat treatment p. peat treatment showed higher relative abundance of gammaproteobacteria tm7 and chlorobi and lower relative abundance of gemmatimonadetes and chloroflexi.

the lowest number of p. nicotianae was observed in treatment pcpta fortified with t. asperellum p0.05 while the treatments with compost treatment pcp showed the highest values p0.05 compared with the rest of treatments .abundance of bcas in the rhizosphere of different substratesqpcr showed that the amount of t. asperellum did not change significantly p0.05 with the pathogen after 28 days of inoculation pcpta  while in the absence of the pathogen p. nicotianae cpta the amount of t. asperellum decreased significantly p0.05 .on the other hand t. harzianum did not change with or without pathogen inoculation after 28 days of inoculation pcpth cpth .

peat p also showed natural t. harzianum but it was significantly lower than the amount of t. harzianum in compost and did not change along the bioassay with or without pathogen inoculation pcpth cpth.bacterial composition of different treatments by ngs analysisafter filtering the readings based on quality control 868.608 sequences with an average length of 181 bases were obtained from 8 samples and assigned to 65.643 otus.

p. nicotianae infected peat treatment pp showed higher relative abundance of tm7 chlorobi acidobacteria and beta- proteobacteria and lower relative abundance for firmicutes and chloroflexi.at this level three clear groupings of the samples could be observed on axis 1 69.2 of the pca  one group that grouped p. nicotianae infected fortified compost treatment with both trichoderma strains pcpth pcpta a second group that grouped peat treatments independently of pathogen inoculation p pp and the third group that grouped the rest of treatments cp pcp cpth and cpta .pca of the 22 most abundant genera obtained  with a relative abundance 0.5 resulted in a similar separation to phylum level on axis 1 86 .

nevertheless peat treat- ments were enriched by gammaproteobacterias  and candidate division tm7 as first identified in a german peat bog  and as has been shown to be present in soil sediments wastewater animals and a host of clinical environments .pca of bacterial community showed that the variation at phylum level is more due to the infection with the pathogen than the introduction of trichoderma strains.

t. harzianum fortified compost showed a different fungal diversity by increasing ascomycota and by decreasing basidiomycota to the other two compost treatments.it can be considered that different genera as trichoderma fusarium and myriococcum were the most abundant of compost treatment compare to peat independently of pathogen infectionthat have been related with suppressiveness.

the remaining high quality sequences were grouped in operational taxonomic units otus following open-refer- ence otu picking protocol for qiime where sequences were clustered against the unite database using the uclust ref algorithm at 97 similarity.quantitative pcr qpcrquantification of t. harzianum t. asperellum and p. nicotianae were performed in a 7500 fast real-time pcr system applied biosystems waltham ma usa with microamp1 fast optical 96-well reaction plate with barcode life technologies carlsbad california.

principal component analysis of bacterial and fungal communities was performed with canoco for windows 4.5.resultssuppressive effect and p. nicotianae abundance in the different substratesthe suppressive effect of the compost fortified with t. asperellum pcpta was significantly p0.05 more effective than the one fortified with t. harzianum pcpta .

values were 4 log times higher for t. harzianum compared with t. asperellum.

