rabbits with a diet of 106 cfu g-1 mixed b. subtilis exhibited the best growth performance andhigher serum igg and iga than controls p  0.05. moreover dairy with b. subtilis can promote the balance of intestinal flora.

rabbits fed a diet with 107 cfu g-1 b. subtilis showed highergrowth performance than the controls but the difference was not significant p  0.05. however no significant differences were observed between rabbits fed with 105 cfu g-1 b. subtilis diets and the controls after 4 5 6 and 7 weeks of feeding.

based on these results research above rabbits fed with the diet of 106 cfu g-1 b. subtilis were chosen for the following assays.immune organ indexas shown in  the relative weights of the thymus and spleen were significantly increased by diet with b. subtilis after 5 weeks of feeding.

similarly the expression of defb127 defb 128 and defb 134 upregulated by 2.5- 2.6- and 2.3-fold respectively after stimulation with live b. subtilisp  0.05 which were not obviously changed after stimulation with killed cells.survival ratethe survival rate of rabbits fed b. subtilis was significantly higher than the controls after the e. coli challenge.

rabbits fed a diet of 107 cfu g-1 b. subtilis did not grow as well as those fed with 106 cfu g-1 perhaps because nutrients in the gut of rabbits was absorbed by the addition of b. subtilis.

to the best of our knowledge this research is the first report on the innate immune response to b. subtilis in rabbits.in return the survival rate of rabbits fed b. subtilis was higher than that of the controls after they were challenged with e. coli.

b. subtilis may be competitive exclusion approaches in the control of infec- tion with enteric pathogens.in conclusion the five b. subtilis that were selected for in vitro experiment showed good probiotic potential in rabbits.

previous reports have demonstrated that bacillus subtilis b. subtilis was a potential probiotic for animals.

in this research 180 b. sub- tilis were isolated from the soil identified and investigated in vitro.

after 7 weeks of feeding the survival rate of the rabbits fed with b. subtilis was significantly higher than those in the control groups postinfected with escherichia coli.

at the same time this study detected higherexpression of b-defensin and reduced bacteria contents of the heart and cecal contentsfrom the diet mixed with b. subtilis compared with the control groups.

in conclusion dietary supplementation with b. subtilis for rabbits could improve growth performance intestinal homeostasis and immune organ index and enhance innate immune responseas well as disease resistance.

in a previous study bacillus subtilis b. subtilis djm-51 isolated from soil demonstrated strong antago- nism toward the tomato pathogen clavibacter michiganense subsp.

recently it was reported that dietary b. subtilis reduced clinical signs of enteric diseases such as salmonella or clostridial diseases such as necrotic enteritis which correlated with increased innate immunity in broiler chickens  .several bacterial diseases afflict the rabbit breeding industry including pathogenic escherichia coli e. coli infection and rabbit clostridium perfringens disease  .

many studies involving both pig and poultry diets with b. subtilis led to a reduction of clostridium and coliforms in host guts  .

