a strong understanding of the connection between the sequencing result and the individuals therapy based on that sequencing result will be essential for the most effective nurse-provided care and support for patients.the international society of nurses in genetics isong international society of nurses in genetics 2012 issued a position statement on the role of nurses in the newborn screening process in 2012 which recommends the following for nursingactive participation in current knowledge of nbs as an advocate for patients and familiesprovide patient education prior to testing for nbsoffer counseling to families post testingexplain use of results and if being utilized in research studies explain their benefits andinclude information about nbs in newborn care curriculum for patient education.we have adapted key features of the isong newborn screening position statement to propose how nurses and nurse scientists can broadly utilize dna sequencing technology participate in policy development translate findings obtained from these methods and ensure adequate education and dissemination of information to patients and the public figure 2. nurses have the knowledge and skills to be involved with clinical care that incorporates results from sequencing technologies and must stay abreast of new developments to provide competent care for diverse patient populations.

2017  662 198-205. doi10.1097nnr.0000000000000211.genome sequencing technologies and nursing what are the roles of nurses and nurse scientistsjacquelyn y. taylor phd pnp-bc rn faha faan associate professor and associate deandiversity and inclusion school of nursing yale university orange ctmichelle l. wright phd rn postdoctoral associate school of nursing yale university orange ctkathleen t. hickey edd fnp anp faha faan associate professor and school of nursing columbia university new york nydavid housman phd virginiak.

we hope to inspire nurses to continue utilizing innovative omics approaches in their research consider where the field of nursing research may be heading and envision the use of multi-omic strategies as the basis for development of useful interventions and subsequent translation for nursing practice in the us and abroad.newborn screening-- a framework for genome based population screeningpopulation-based genetic screening has great potential to improve health outcomes for individuals and health care costs for society.

nurses are at the focal point in educating patients regarding relevant healthcare needs therefore an understanding of sequencing technology and utilizing these data are critical.aim--the objective of this paper is to explicate the role of nurses and nurse scientists as integral members of healthcare teams in improving understanding of dna sequencing data and translational genomics for patients.approach--a history of the nurse role in newborn screening is used as an exemplar.discussion--this paper serves as an exemplar on how genome sequencing has been utilized in nursing science and incorporates linkages of other omics approaches used by nurses that are included in this special issue.

from this vantage point we provide an overview of the roles of nurse scientists in genome sequencing research and provide recommendations for the best utilization of nurses and nurse scientists related to genome sequencing.corresponding author jacquelyn y. taylor phd pnp-bc rn faha faan yale university school of nursing 400 west campus drive orange ct 06516-7399 jacquelyn.tayloryale.edu.michelle l. wright phd rn was a postdoctoral associate school of nursing yale university orange ct at the time this workwas completed.

additionally it is imperative that nurses consider how the omics data deluge will influence nursing research in order to develop new knowledge relevant to nursing practice.

this nursing research special issue on omics in nursing science showcases nurse scientists conducting multi-omic research from various methods such as targeted candidate genes correa-rodriguez rio-valle  blanca 2017 zahari et al.

2015 as new sequencing and therapeutic modalities based on this screening are brought into practice wright housman  taylor 2016. for nurses already in practice it is critical that in- service education programs be made available so that nurses will have useful resources to integrate the new information into their day-to-day nursing activities effectively.taylor et al.page 7clear effective and ethical communication of the relevance and impact of the results of these technologies is the most significant barrier to development of potentially life-saving therapeutic intervention strategies and dramatic overall improvements in health.

however the reliability accuracy and clinical manifestations associated with genetic variants identified by whole genome sequencing remain largely unknown because research studies focused on affected individuals do not evaluate population-based data or individuals with the variant who are unaffected williams cashion  veenstra 2015. as public policy statements evolve the practical implications of new developments in dna sequencing for nurses will include the need to keep curricula in nursing education programs up-to-date calzone et al.

content within this special issue includes examples of how nurses are working to bridge the gap from omics research results to clinical application.dna sequencing technologies are already in routine use in the clinic and nurses play a crucial role in turning genetic information into concrete action plans for their patients.

currently there are programs available that train nurse scientists in complex genomic data analysis and big data computation including the national institute of nursing research big data bootcamp   and the national heart lung and blood institute programs to increase diversity among individuals engaged in health-related research pride .

this paper will show how genome sequencing has been utilized in nursing science and will incorporate linkages other omics approaches used by nurses that are included in this special issue.

first we must incorporate advances into nursing curricula so that clinical nurses and nurse scientists have the knowledge to develop and incorporate innovative interventions into practice to improve or maintain patient health.

she is now assistant research professor school of nursing emory university atlanta ga.author contributions jyt conceptualized and drafted the manuscript mlw kth and deh added critical content and revisions.

in 2012 the genomic nursing state of the science advisory panel was held at the national institutes of health and made recommendations that research should focus on building capacity for using genomic information in a clinically meaningful way to reduce costs and improve health outcomes in diverse patient populations calzone et al.

