these data could explain why f. spiralis showed the lowest planctomycetes di- versity and richness of all the three macroalgae studied here.the ability to utilize the macroalgae exudates as well as the structural polysaccharides of their cells walls by the as- sociated bacteria is also an important factor that modulates the communities on macroalgae goecke et al.

tel 351 220402724 fax 351 220402799 e-mail one sentence summary the epiphytic planctomycetal communities on three macroalgae are significantly host specific which may be determined by nutritional molecules provided by the alga.editor riks laanbroekjoana bondoso abstractplanctomycetes a unique group of widespread and understudied bacteria are known to be associated with macroalgae.

micro- bial biofilms associated with macroalgae have increasingly been studied in the last years but the understanding of their ecology and interactions is still very limited.epiphytic bacteria can have positive effects on the host macroalgae through nutritional and protective roles wahl  goecke et al.

bacteria isolated from macroalgae are known to produce growth factors and nutri- ents through matter mineralization and nitrogen fixation that are needed by the macroalgae dimitrieva crawford and yuksel  goecke et al.

here we analyzed the temporal and ge- ographical variation of the planctomycetes communities on three different macroalgae and the existence of a possible association of these communities to specific macroalgae.dgge fingerprinting showed that the planctomycetal com- munities of macroalgae did not vary significantly during the sea- sonal cycle.

which showed that the epibacterial communities from macroalgae sampled in the baltic and north seas were more similar between representatives of the same species than between macroalgae in the same location.

this highly specific association of bacteria with macroalgae is mostly due to a combination of physiological and biochemical properties of the macroalgae goecke et al.

suggested that the specific associations existent between bacteria and macroalgae are mainly due to substrate preferences of the bacterial strains and to antifouling and antimicrobial metabolites produced by the macroalgae goecke et al.

no planctomycetes core community was associated with the three macroalgae which are representatives of the main groups of macroalgae.

we hypothesize that the specific association of planctomycetes and their macroalgal hosts is likely determined by nutritional molecules provided by the algae and the set of sulfatases inherent to each planctomycetes species.keywords planctomycetes macroalgae 16s rrna gene clone libraries dggereceived 18 august 2016 accepted 30 december 2016qc fems 2017. all rights reserved.

sponges corals ascidians bryozoans and microalgae and macroalgae have established a wide range of interactions with prokaryotes that have been par- ticularly investigated because of the potential production of new bioactive products egan thomas and kjelleberg .

however bacteria can also have noxious effects on macroalgae by inducing diseases and causing decom- position vairappan et al.

.members of many bacterial phyla have been detected by molecular studies to be associated with macroalgae.

but a great variety exists among the various macroalgae lage and graca .

firmicutes actinobacteria and planctomycetes are more frequently found as- sociated with red and brown algae while bacteroidetes and al- phaproteobacteria are more abundant on green macroalgae hol- lants et al.

