early experiments suggested negative effects of higher pco2 on production and calcification in e. huxleyi  but other studies have indicated that the effect of increased pco2 is minimal for other coccolithophore species .

after equilibration the ph of each of the high pco2 treatments was 7.8 and the ambient treatment mesocosms were all ph 8.15. high precision alkalinity and pco2 measurements were made throughout the experiment and ph was calculated .

enclosures m1  m2  m3   m4  m5  m6 .traditional microscopy neither light nor electron is capable of distinguishing between e. huxleyi genotypes with figure showing that identical morphology typical type a was present in both pco2 treatments throughout the experiment.figure 3. tem images of identical emiliania huxleyi morphologies typical type a present in both pco2 treatments throughout the experiment.however molecular analysis showed a large genetic diversity that was not revealed by microscopy.

in this study we have no evidence to support the hypothesis that higher pco2 conditions might benefit certain e. huxleyi genotypes we could detect no restructuring of the e. huxleyi population in the different pco2 treatments.contradictory results are constant features of experiments to investigate the effect of pco2ph change on coccolithophores.

e. huxleyi growth rate was not affected by the different pco2 treatments but the burst size of ehv-99b1 was lower in present-day compared with higher and lower pre-industrial pco2.

alternatively other unknown factors that are not related to pco2 cannot be dismissed and might be the cause of the different coccolithophore response in enclosure m3.our study demonstrates the need for further investigations on the effects of elevated pco2 on the e. huxleyi ehv system since there are ecological impacts of virus competition on biogeochemical cycles.

brussaard and mathias middelboereceived 12 january 2017 accepted 2 march 2017 published 8 march 2017abstract effects of elevated pco2 on emiliania huxleyi genetic diversity and the viruses that infecte.

triplicate enclosures were bubbled with air enriched with co2 to 760 ppmv whilst the other three enclosures were bubbled with air at ambient pco2 phytoplankton growth was initiated by the addition of nitrate and phosphate.

chlorophyll concentrations and primary production were lower in the three elevated pco2 treatments than in the ambient treatments.

in laboratory experiments both negative and positive effects of increasing pco2 have been described see for example -.

time series analysis of natural populations has been another approach and a recent analysis of coccolithophore abundance in the north sea concluded that increasing pco2 on decadal scales has resulted in larger coccolithophore populations .

the contradictory results make it difficult to robustly predict how natural populations will respond to ph change in a future ocean.we suggest that real understanding of the effect of ph changehigher pco2 requires more detailed information than has been obtained to date particularly in relation to phytoplankton genetic variability and virus infection.

in this study the response of a population of e. huxleyi to increased pco2 at the early stages of a phytoplankton bloom in a mesocosm experiment has been investigated.

huxleyi and ehv assemblages may come to eventually dominate natural communities it is important to know the impact of elevated pco2.

virus infection may be an explanation for some of the variability reported from different mesocosm experiments that were designed to investigate potential effects of higher pco2.

