LETTERS TO THE EDITOROn the Pathogenesis of Central Liver Nodules in Alagille Syndromelhammad et al 1 described central hyperplastic liver nodules in Alagille syndrome patients and Rougemont et al 2 proposed that vascular anomalies lead to the development of central liver nodules with intact bile ducts while bile duct integrity isaffected in the peripheral liver.Based on our findings in the explant liver of an Alagille syndrome patient we proposed that defects in postnatal bile duct branching and elongation lead to bile duct paucity in the peripheral liver while normal bile ducts are present in the central portion 3.

Our hypothesis was supported in an animal model 4.Although bile duct paucity causes cholate statis in the liver periphery intact bile ducts in the central portion prevent the accumulation of hepatotoxic bile salts 3.

DNA extracted from feces collected from the healthy donor and recipient pre-fecal microbiota transplantation FMT -1 day 1 th1 day 7 th7 day 14 th14 of after FMT was subjected to16S rDNA V6 libraries construction and sequencing.

DNA extracted from feces collected from the healthy donor and recipient pre-fecal microbiota transplantation FMT -1 day 1 th1 day 7 th7 day 14 th14 of after FMT was subjected to 16S rDNA V6 libraries construction and sequencing.

Pediatr Radiol 2010401696-8.16S rDNA Gene Sequencing Analysis in Functional Dyspepsia Treated With Fecal Microbiota Transplantationo the Editor In recent years fecal microbiota transplantation FMT has been developed into a therapeutic method for0.450.40.350.30.250.20.150.10.050Dobor-11714next to a central regenerating nodule.

Now we report the first pediatric FGIDs case who has 2-month symptom free after single FMT with remarkably changed 16s rDNA.A 5-year-old boy with 6-month recurrent abdominal disten- sion after meals combined with nausea and vomiting was referred for further evaluation to our hospital.

On his 6th month from disease initial single FMT via nasal jejuna feeding tube was performed 34.

1 the FMT treatment significantly increased the species richness of the youngDonor-11714Day of FMTAlcaligenacaeae Neisseriaceae Lactobacillaceae Pasteurellaceae Streptococcaceae Bacillaceae Erysipelotrichaceae Bifidobacteriaceae Conriobacteriaceae Ruminococcaceae Rikernellaceae Desulfovibrionaceae Porphyromonadaceae Bacteroidaceae Vibrionaceae Enterobacteriaceae Peptococcaceae Streptophyte Akkermansiaceae Peptostreptococcaceae Actinomycetaceae Micrococcaceae Lachnospiraceae Eubacteriaceae Paenibacillaceae Clostridiaceae10.50-0.5-1-1.5patients Fig.

It showed that the child's bacterial population after FMT was close to the donor Fig.

Our results show FMT could be efficient treatment for pediatric FGIDs.

