the application was increased to 10 l and suc- cess was obtained in room 18 but not in room 1. af- ter treating the room 1 drain with steam under pressure we poured 5 l of the same disinfectant and only found raoultella with vim the bacteria that colonized this sink in the first months of the study before it was colo- nized by oxa48.the second step was following inpatients admitted to this floor during another 9 months fig.

moreo- ver oxa48 was only detected in sinks of 4 of the 21 rooms room 1 only in the last month the other months it showed raoultella with vim and room numbers 12 18 and 20. in other rooms vim microorganisms such as citrobacter k. oxytoca enterobacter etc.

the or room with oxa48 to room without oxa48 was 3.1 1.4-7.1 p  0.01 that is we have a suggestive coincidence causality between a water reservoir for specific rooms and their patients but that is only true in the case of bacteria with oxa48 but not with vim.drains were not changed in the traumatology area be- cause it would have required construction work.

the or room with oxa48 to room without oxa48 10-8.5 was 1.2 p  0.1 non significant.in the oncology hospitalization area fig.

therefore if a new patient is contaminated it must be due to microor- ganisms being carried by healthcare workers who have not followed contact precautions or from microorganism reservoirs that are difficult clean during the inter-patient room cleaningdisinfection 17 18.reservoirs have sometimes been seen with hydrophilic bacteria like p. aeruginosa or b. cepaciae or enterobac- teriaceae as kpc-k. pneumoniae 19 but not among oxa-k. pneumoniae or vim-klebsiella oxytoca carbe- penemase a metallo-b-lactamase that gives resistance to most antibiotics used in our hospitals.

moreover we took samples from the sinks in each room with a sterile swab either directly if the siphon could be reached without removing the drain or after disassembling it.

however this was not done in the rooms of the traumatology because it would have required construction work that could not have been done without closing the room to new admissions.

in cases where it had not we increased the vol- ume of the disinfectant poured down the sink by 5 l. in one room we failed to kill bacteria with this method so we applied heat by using steam through a steam cleaner la- vorwashr model starsteam type hp58ds-m which has been reported to destroy slime.

or b-lac- tamase type esbl bacteria or microorganisms without antibiotic resistance were detected.if we accept contamination from the water reservoir as possible only if species and strain match in each room this occurred in 10 of the 26 cases with oxa48-k pneu- moniae.

however none of the siphons colonized byvim matched the bacteria found in the patients in the same room being different species it was not neces- sary to type them see table i. the number of studied patients was 463. the incidence of oxa48-k. pneu- moniae in this period was 13.2 in the case of rooms with siphons positive for this bacterium and 4.7 if the siphons were negative.

pour- ing 5 l in the sinks of the 4 rooms achieved success in the 12th room where only serratia with vim had been detected and the 20th where k. pneumoniae with esbl had been found but rooms 1 and 18 continued to show oxa48.

the rooms with oxa48 to room without these bacteria or was 3.3 1.4-7.6 p  0.01. after the change the incidence dropped to 4.8 in rooms 13 and 14 and remained similar in the other rooms 9.7. the relative risk in rooms with oxawithout oxa48 was 0.48 p  0.1. all these da- ta suggest that oxa48 exposure from a contaminated sink is a probably interesting causal factor and can be eliminated by changing the siphons without changing the other factors that continue to operate normally in the other rooms.lastly the conjugation of oxa48-k. pneumoniae with other intestinal species of bacteria is not easy because less than 0.5 of colonized patients by oxa-bacteria in our hospital have two or more different species with oxa-plasmid having been studied a grand number of rectal swabs in oncology 2602 and traumatology 2733 during the investigate period.discussionprincipal featureshigh possibility of microorganism diffusion from contaminated hands which continue to transmit a large number of microorganisms after more than 10 successive contacts to surfaces but was more intense higher number of fcu in oxa than vim bacteria.

perhaps the main reasons were the lower microbial adherence to surfaces or fingers by vim-k pneumoniae after the first contact the number of fcu was low and it is not easily transferred between patients or from contaminated surfaces to patients prob- ably due to changes in the capsular polysaccaride very frequents in klebsiella 25.moreover based on the above obtained risk ratios we believe that water-born oxa48 bacterial colonization may be another risk factor for patients admitted to these rooms but not for vim bacterial colonization with the exception of k. oxytoca with vim with cases described in other hospitals 2 3 but not in these traumatology patients because we found 6 patients with this intesti- nal bacteria and 3 sink colonization but no coincidence in strains between patients and their room.

nevertheless these changes must be made without patients in the room as the water drops during the change are contaminated with oxa48 bacteria and if not thoroughly cleaned and disinfected the sprinkled surfaces may allow bacteria transmission to patients.in other rooms of our hospital where oxa48 was detect- ed in the sinks we used heat plus 5 l of chlorinated dis- infectant and in all of them the oxa48 bacteria were eliminated we now indicate this double treatment when it is not possible to change the siphons.

these facts allows to microorganisms be carried to patients in the same room given their high ability to survive on sur- faces and easy transfer through contaminated hands as demonstrated in our experiments.

