none of these patients developed repeat abscess formation at these sites on fol- low-up imaging table .the drainage technique in this study was ct-guided percutaneous catheter placement using relatively small caliber drainage catheters median 10 f range 8-14 f. early studies used the trocar technique and larger drainage catheters reported higher complication rates while modern series use seldinger technique and small-bore catheters reported rates similar to this study .

the purpose of this study was to review the outcomes of percutaneous lung parenchymal abscess catheter drainage after broad- spectrum antibiotic therapy failure and correlate with patient microbiologic samples.materials and methods retrospective review of patients who underwent percutaneous lung abscess drainage at a tertiary hospital system from 2005 to 2015 was performed.

additionally percutaneous drainage of lung parenchymal abscess cavi- ties may promote resolution of the abscess with high rates of therapeutic success and low complications.keywords pulmonary abscess  drainage  lung infection  microbiologyintroductionairway infections represent one of the most common causes of mortality worldwide.

the purpose of this study was to review the outcomes of percutaneous lung parenchymal abscess catheter drainage after broad-spec- trum antibiotic therapy failure and correlate with patient microbiologic samples.materials and methodspatient selection and data collectionin accordance with the institutional review board retro- spective review was performed of all patients who under- went percutaneous parenchymal lung abscess drainage between 2005 and 2015 at a tertiary academic medical center by examining the records in a dedicated quality assurance qa database compiled daily from the interventional radiology division's master qa database hi-iq conexsys lincoln ri usa.

technical success was defined as positioning of locking loop or all side holes of straight drains of the catheter into the lung abscess cavity.the electronic medical records of each patient were examined for procedure details including technical suc- cess and complications comorbidities age at drain placement duration of drainage therapy complications if applicable and outcome of drainage.

understanding the lung abscess microbiome outcomes of percutaneous lung parenchymal abscess drainage with microbiologic correlationchristopher duncan12  gregory j. nadolski12  terence gade12 stephen hunt12received 24 december 2016  accepted 2 march 2017  published online 20 march 2017c springer sciencebusiness media new york and the cardiovascular and interventional radiological society of europe cirse 2017abstractintroduction lung parenchymal abscesses represent an uncommon pathology with high mortality if untreated.

in compar- ison the specimens from initial catheter placement isolated a causative organism in 95 1819 of case p  0.0001. conclusion in cases of persistent lung abscess after broad- spectrum antibiotics percutaneous abscess drainage is highly sensitive for microbiologic sampling compared to sputumbronchoscopic or blood cultures.

many of these patients are poor surgical candi- dates due to multiple comorbidities or critical illness andpercutaneous drainage may be offered as an alternative to thoracotomy with wedge resection or lobectomy .

sev- eral case series have evaluated the efficacy of lungtable 1 patient and drain demographicsvalueparenchymal abscess catheter drainage demonstrating varying efficacy with clinical resolution of the abscess ranging between 37.5 and 100  -.

clinical documentation andor temporally related tai- loring of antibiotic therapy following the growth of abscess cultures were considered evidence of therapeutic change due to abscess cultures.in total 19 initial drainage catheter placements were performed on 16 different patients six females and ten males.

patient follow-up until tube removal or death was 100.median total duration of drainage was 8 days range 1-107 days.

in one patient the drainage catheter was removed at the time of thoracotomyand three catheters remained in place at the time of death.

standard peripheral blood cultures demonstrated microbial growth in 0 of patients 016. respiratory cultures sputum or bronchoscopy demonstrated microbial growth in 25 of patients 416. from the fluid samples obtained from the 19 drains during placement 95 1819 of the drainage cultures demonstrated microbial growth p  0.0001 compared to either blood or sputum see fig.

notably microbial speciation from percutaneous lung abscess drainage catheters changed antibiotic management in 56 916 of patients.commentlung parenchymal abscesses remain an uncommon pathology and failure of antibiotic therapy in this cohort is rare .

percutaneous abscess drainage is a well-accepted technique for managing intra- abdominal abscesses and has reduced the need for surgical abscess management in the abdomen .

