in several countries lab are present in yogurt in numbers of at least 106 to 5 x 108 cfuml depending on the type of yogurt 6. according to the turkish food codex the total microorganism count in yogurt must exceed 106 cfug 19. in this study on non-commercial yogurts we found lab counts of at least 3.7 x 108 cfug when the counts from m17 agar and mrs agar were considered togetherthat is adding the lowest number of cfu on mrs agar zero growth and the lowest number of cfu on m17 agar 3.7 x 108 cfug.

lactic acid which is produced via the fermenta- tion of the milk sugar lactose is the compound that conferspart of the typical textural and sensory characteristics of yo- gurt and acts on milk protein 2. yogurt which contains high concentrations of lactic acid bacteria lab has been de- scribed to have several potential health benefits it can in- crease lactose tolerance balance the intestinal microbiota act as an antimicrobial compound stimulate the immune system induce anti-tumor effects and induce anti-cholesterolemic ef-corresponding author a. karadumanfects 6. today the vast majority of yogurt needs are met bycommercially produced yogurts and the goal of companies isto produce more solid continuous sweet yogurt with a variety of additives.

commercial yogurts are produced using standard starters while in the production of non-commercial yogurt the microbiota is quite different since yogurts are used as starter for years.

lab are considered generally recognized as safe gras microorganisms 1623. they are cocci or rod- shaped bacteria that primarily produce lactic acid as the end product of carbohydrate fermentation 1323. the results of this study showed that the ph levels of then non-commer- cial yogurts from villages in turkey that we analyzed were acidic below 7 as a result of lactic acid fermentation their ph ranged from 3.9-6.0. as no standard inocula were ap- plied in this study the relatively high ph of some yogurts could be related to both yeasts and bacteria present in the yogurt total microbiota.

erkaya and sengul 9 have described ph levels of yogurts produced from different milk types ranged between 4.02 and 4.26 and they have reported that these ph values were related to the metabolic activities of the starter cultures and the fermentation time of the yo- gurt 9. in addition omafuvbe and enyioha 20 have found ph values ranging from 3.80 to 4.48 in yogurts ob- tained from villages in nigeria 20. they have also reported that these levels were lower than ph levels of commercial yogurts.

the yogurt bacteria isolated in this study are used in several combina- tions that allow the development of a starter culture that is the basis for the unique taste of yogurt.

to gain such knowledge it is crucial to identify and characterize the bacteria in a starter culture.analysis of protein profiles of microorganisms carried out with the maldi-tof matrix-assisted laser desorption-ion- ization time-of-flight mass spectrometry are compatible with the results of identification made by using molecular methods 25.therefore maldi-tof can be considered a robust and reliable method as well as fast and inexpensive to identify gram-positive bacteria such as lactic acid bacteria 2530.the purpose of this study was to isolate and characterize lab from collected non-commercial yogurts in southern anatolia and find out whether they differed from the lab used for the production of commercial yogurts.materials and methodstraditional yogurt production and samples collection.

a total of 208 non-commercial yogurt samples were collected from nine vil-lages in southeastern anatolia turkey from march to may 2015 the vari- ous locations are indicate with codes in the tables.. yogurts had been pro- duced with traditionally methods by people from those villages.

important results have been obtained for the provision of yogurts to turkish consumers who en- joy their local yogurt flavors.

these results suggested that non-commercial yogurts might develop in different ways and have a more wide profile of lab species than commercial yogurts.

these addi- tional species might represent factors underliying the flavors and properties of non-commercial yogurts different from commercial yogurts.

yogurt is a dairy product obtained by bacterial fermentation of milk.

in our study 208 non-commercial yogurt samples were collected from 9 different locations in anatolia southern turkey.

afterwards the four lactic acid bacteria were characterized physiologically and biochemically and we found that they differed from lactic acid bacteria used in commercial yogurt production.

int microbiol 201 25-30 2017keywords yogurt starters  lactic acid bacteria lab  southern anatolia turkeyintroductionyogurt is a dairy product obtained by the bacterial fermenta- tion of milk.

