ca cholic acid cdca chenodeoxycholic acid dca deoxycholic acid lca lithocholic acid mca muricholic acid udca ursodeoxycholic acid t taurine-conjugated species c4 7a-hydroxy-cholestene-4-one.hepatocytes incubated with d4-cdca contained significant amounts of d4-amca and d4-tcdca but no bmca a. in contrast incuba- tion with d4-udca generated d4-bmca and d4-tudca but no d4-amca.

cyp3a11 is not essential for the formation of murine bile acidsannika wahlstrom samer al-dury marcus stahlman fredrik backhedhanns-ulrich marschalla sahlgrenska academy institute of medicine department of molecular and clinical medicine and wallenberg laboratory university of gothenburg s-413 45 gothenburg swedenb novo nordisk foundation center for basic metabolic research section for metabolic receptology and enteroendocrinology faculty of health sciences university ofcopenhagen copenhagen dk-2200 denmarka r t i c l e i n f o keywords p450 enzymes mouse models fxr6-hydroxylationa b s t r a c t humans and mice differ substantially in their bile acid profiles as mice in addition to cholic acid ca predominantly synthesize 6b-hydroxylated muricholic acids mcas whereas humans produces chenodeoxy- cholic acid cdca and ca as primary bile acids.

farnesoid x receptor fxr is the most studied bile acid nuclear receptor and is efficiently activated by chenodeoxycholic acid cdca and cholic acid ca.

a-b concentrations of d4-labeled bile acids um in medium collected from primary hepatocytes incubated with d4-cdca 25 um a and d4-udca 100 um b for 24 h. primary hepatocytes were isolated from two individual mice and plated in triplicates cdca chenodeoxycholic acid mca muricholic acid udca ursodeoxycholic acid g glycine-conjugated species t taurine-conjugated species.applied biosystems or cfx96 real-time system bio-rad labora- tories.

in line with the minor changes in bile acid levels we found similar expression of the bile acid synthetic genes involved in the classical neutral and alternative acidic pathways of bile acid synthesis cyp7a1 cyp8b1 cyp27a1 and cyp7b1 in cyp3a ko and wild-type control mice a-d which is also reflected by similar hepatic c4 levels .

bile acid composition in liver gallbladder caecum and serum from cyp3a knock out mice and wild-type littermate controls was analyzed with uplc-msms and revealed no major differences in bile acid composition.

specifically besides different preferences in the formation of glycine or taurine conjugates mice synthesize alpha- and betamuricholic acids abmca in addition to chenodeoxycholic acid and cholic acid cdca and ca which are the primary bile acids found in humans.

another possible pathway for bmca formation could be 6b-hydroxylation of ursodeoxycholic acid udca which is the 7b-isomer of cdca and a primary bile acid in mice .

body weight and gallbladder weights did not differ but relative liver weights were slightly increased in the male cyp3a ko mice compared with their wild-type controls 48.2 - 1.0 versus 44.5 - 1.2 mgg body weight p0.04 a-c. analysis of cyp3a11 gene expression in liver showed that cyp3a11 was absent verifying that cyp3a11 was success- fully deleted in the cyp3a ko mice d.to determine if deletion of the cyp3a gene cluster would affect bile acid composition we analyzed bile acid levels in liver gallbladder caecum and serum from portal and caval veins.

however our in vitro experiments with primary murine hepatocytes did not show conversion from cdca to udca and only traces of 7-keto-lca a. this together with our previous findings that udca is a primary bile acid in mice and can be produced in the absence of bacteria suggests that udc a might be formed by an alternative pathway in the mouse liver .in the future cyp2c70 ko mice may become an attractive huma- nized animal model for studies of bile acid-regulated metabolism and it would be important to investigate if germ-free cyp2c70 ko mice also lack the murine bile acids and have a human bile acid profile.conflict of interestthe authors declare no competing financial interests of relevance for this manuscript.acknowledgementswe are grateful to antonio molinaro for isolation of primary hepatocytes anna hallen for excellent technical assistance and zakarias gulic for superb mouse husbandry.

identifying the gene performing 6b-hydroxylation would be useful for 'humanizing' the bile acid profile in mice for studies of the interaction between bile acids gut microbiota and host metabolism.

to test this hypothesis we analyzed bile acid profiles in cyp3a deficient mice which lack 7 genes in the cyp3a gene cluster including cyp3a11 and compared them with wild-type littermate controls.

it regulates metabolism of bile acids lipids and glucose and is therefore an attractive target for the treatment of metabolic diseases .bile acid-dependent regulation of metabolism via fxr has been widely studied in various mouse models but substantial differences between murine and human bile acid profiles limit the translation of findings into human pathophysiology.

ideal mouse models for the study of human gut microbiota and bile acid-regulated metabolism and diseases would be mice with a human bile acid profile i.e.

the p450-enzyme cyp3a11 is commonly presented as bile acid 6b- hydroxylase  however its involvement in the synthesis of murine bile has never been proven.

