we thank the women who participated in this study the pvi study team and study sites for their tireless work on data and sample collection and fhi 360 for their work on data management and study operations.j.

vaginae atopobium vaginae bvab bacterial vaginosis-associated bacterium ci confidence interval g. vaginalis gardnerella vaginalis l. crispatus lactobacillus crispatus l. iners lactobacillus iners l. jensenii lactobacillus jensenii lld lower limit of detection m. indolicus mageeibacillus indolicus roc receiver operating characteristic.prevalence of communities dominated by anaerobic species compared with women of european ancestry 32 33. few stud- ies have directly compared the vaginal microbiota of women living in different geographic regions using molecular methods 25 34. the prevalence of l. crispatus l. jensenii and l. iners among kenyan women was generally similar to the prevalence reported in a cross-sectional study of south african rwandan and kenyan women 34. in contrast at enrollment nearly 95 of kenyan women in our study had measureable quantities of g. vaginalis compared with 45-73 in the multicountry african study despite having a similar prevalence of bv in both studies.

this applies to both lld and roc cut-offsabbreviations a. vaginae atopobium vaginae bvab bacterial vaginosis-associated bacterium g. vaginalis gardnerella vaginalis l. crispatus lactobacillus crispatus l. iners lactobacillus iners l. jensenii lactobacillus jensenii lld lower limit of detection m. indolicus mageeibacillus indolicus roc receiver operating characteristic.aby the mantel-haenszel test stratified by site.bby the kh2 test.table 3. prevalence of bacteria at levels above the lower limit of detection lld and at or above the receiving operating characteristic roc curve cutoff by study arm during follow-upabbreviations arr adjusted relative risk a. vaginae atopobium vaginae bvab bacterial vaginosis-associated bacterium ci confidence interval g. vaginalis gardnerella vaginalis l. cris- patus lactobacillus crispatus l. iners lactobacillus iners l. jensenii lactobacillus jensenii m. indolicus mageeibacillus indolicus rr relative risk.athe numerator represents the number of follow-up visits where the bacteria of interest was detected at levels above the lld and the denominator is the number of follow-up visits with microbiome testing.bdata are from generalized estimating equations with a log link and exchangeable correlation structure and clustered by participant.cdata are from generalized estimating equations with a log link and exchangeable correlation structure and clustered by participant with adjustment for study site.dconvergence not achieved for the l. iners model with adjustment for site.kenyan participants we observed reductions in the proportion of visits with values below the lld in the intervention arm compared with the placebo arm for bvab1 bvab2 a. vagi- nae leptotrichiasneathia species megasphaera species andm.

bacterial detection at enrollment differed by country with a higher proportion of us participants having detectable levels of l. jensenii l. iners bvab1 and m. indolicusas compared to kenyan participants table 2 figure 1.in unadjusted bacterium-specific models the proportion of follow-up visits with bv-associated species at levels below the lld was lower in the ppt arm compared with the pla- cebo arm for the following bacteria bvab1 bvab2 a. vagi- nae leptotrichiasneathia species and megasphaera species table 3. the proportion of visits with l. crispatus l. jensenii or l. iners was higher for each species but these increases were smaller in magnitude and not statistically significant.

participant follow-up did not differ by study arm with 87 of participants in the intervention arm attending 80 scheduled study visits compared with 89 of participants in theplacebo arm p  .55. in contrast a number of baseline charac- teristics differed between us and kenyan participants table 1. at enrollment the proportion of participants with bacterial quantities below the lld cutoff did not differ by arm table 2 figure 1. overall l. iners and g. vaginalis were the most preva- lent species at enrollment 88.2 and 92.8 of visits respectively while l. jensenii and bvab1 were the least prevalent 20.8 and 21.7 respectively.

however among us participants the effect sizes were smaller in magnitude with no significant differences by arm figure 2 and supplementary table 2. in light of these differences by country we explored self-reported adherence by country and observed that 99 of kenyan participants reported using all 5 doses of study product at each visit where product was dispensed compared with 88 of us participants p  .001.in our exploratory analysis that assessed the impact of the intervention on the proportion of species with bacterial quanti- ties at or above the roc cutoff we noted a wide range of cutoffs table 2. consistent with the primary analysis no differences were noted by study arm at enrollment.

at enrollment we observed notable differences in species colonization with lower frequen- cies of lactobacillus species and some bv-associated species among kenyan women as compared to us women the major- ity of whom were african american.

the present analysis extends the findings of the original trial by showing that this ppt regimen also reduces detectionand concentrations of species that are highly predictive of bv persistence and recurrence including bvab2 a. vaginae leptotrichiasneathia species and megasphaera species.

results were similar after adjustment for study site table 3 and were also similar in a sensitivity analysis excluding visits where participants were pregnant and did not receive study product data not shown.

when study prod- uct use was evaluated it was noted that a higher proportion of kenyan women reported using all 5 does at visits where study product was dispensed compared with findings observed for us women.

the intervention reduced detec- tion and quantities of bvab2 and megasphaera species 2 bac- teria associated with both bv persistence and recurrence 24figure 1. bacterial detection at enrollment by study arm and country.

they were evaluated for pcr inhibitors using exogenously added dna aequorin plasmid and aequorin gene qpcr 22. to verify contact of the vaginal swab with a human mucosal surface we used a broad-range 16s rrna qpcr assay to measure total bacterial concentrations on all samples 12. bacterium-specific qpcr assays were performed using purified dna and targeted the following bacteria lactobacillus crispa- tus lactobacillus jensenii lactobacillus iners bv-associated bacterium 1 bvab1 bvab2 mageeibacillus indolicus atopobium vaginae leptotrichiasneathia species megasphaera species and gardnerella vaginalis as previously described 23 24. no-template water controls were included with all pcr runs to monitor contaminants from pcr reagents.statistical analysisour primary objectives were to assess the effect of the pvi trial intervention on detection and concentrations of vaginal bacteria associated with vaginal health or bv using a modi- fied intent-to-treat approach.

at monthly follow-up visits data were collected on study product use genital tract symptoms sexual behaviors intra- vaginal practices and contraceptive use and a urine pregnancy test was performed.

nonpregnant participants received a 1-month supply of study product and free male condoms.

enrollment characteristics stratified by study arm were summarized using descriptive statistics and differences were assessed using kh2 analysis or the fisher exact test where appro- priate for categorical factors and the wilcoxon rank sum test for continuous factors.

