with light microscopical features of the genus body length 33-81 um body width 34-59 um densely ciliated 14 kineties per 10 um dorsal brush on dorsal-lateral anterior right com- posed of 4 kineties three of them made of dikinetids with clavate cilia and a central kinety made of closely spaced monokinetids with normal cilia oral region with 10-15 kineties with densely packed kinetids on the right margin and 40 kineties on right posterior to left anterior margins entering the oral cavity or vestibulum which is 17 um deep with an opening 15 um long by 5.5 um wide prominent axial nematodesmata reaching from the anterior pole of the cell to the proximal end of the vestibulum comb-like vesicles invaginat- ing from plasma membrane macronucleus ovoid14.5 um long by 8 um wide micronucleus ellip- soid 3 um by 2 um contractile vacuoles may be multiple cytoproct posterior as small tube 2-3 um long found in the crop of the hoatzin opisthocomus hoazin.etymology.

thus we are prepared to see that future research on aviisotricha might justify the erection of a separate new family aviisotrichidae.taxonomic summaryphylum ciliophora doflein 1901 subphylum intramacronucleata lynn 1996 class litostomatea small and lynn 1981 subclass trichostomatia butschli 1889 order vestibuliferida de puytorac batisse bohatier corliss deroux didier dragesco fryd-versavel grain groliere iftode laval roque savoie and tuffrau 1974family isotrichidae butschli 1887genus aviisotricha n. gen. bardele schultheiss lynn wright dominguez-bello and obispo 2016species aviisotricha hoazini n. sp.

hoazini may have invaded the hoatzin crop long after its origin but perhaps also before ruminants invaded south america  is it possible that the ancestor of the hoatzin picked up aviisotricha from an ancient ruminant the genetic relationships would suggest a common ancestry with isotrichids but was this after or before their colonization of the rumenit is logical to assume that an early ancestor of aviisotricha and the isotrichids was a free-living cil- iate.

however the approximately equatorial position of its oral apparatus the location in the crop of the hoatzin and its significant genetic divergence from other isotrichids justify the estab- lishment of the new genus aviisotricha n. gen. with its new type species aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.aviisotricha n. gen.diagnosis.

unfortunately the phylogenetic posi- tion of a. hoazini and the actual morphogenesis of its axial nematodesmata are unknown.similar to other anaerobic ciliates a. hoazini has no mitochondria but numerous smaller organelles without cristae which we assume to be hydrogeno- somes  as in the closely-related vestibu- liferids dasytricha and isotricha these hydrogeno- somes are located preferentially close to the pellicle unlike dasytricha entodinium and free-swimming anaerobic ciliates like the plagiopy- lids which may have endosymbiotic methanogens no methanogens were found inside aviisotricha.

what is missing is a morphogenetic study of how the single central kinety develops between the normal brush kineties.phylogenetic position of aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.

cytological staining of this isotrichid-like ciliate with the chatton-lwoff and protargol staining procedures as well as sem and tem justified the establishment of the new genus aviisotricha n. gen. with its new type species aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.. phylogenetic analyses of a portion of the small subunit rrna gene supported the taxonomic placement of this new genus and species in the family isotrichidae.

viewed from the anterior pole the oral cavity is slightly concave on its right side and given this concav- ity its depth ranged from 15.5-18.9 um  c. the oral cavity is often also oriented slightly towards the anterior pole although this ori- entation varies see c. it is our interpretation that the somatic kineties that contact the oral open- ing at its right posterior margin around to the left anterior margin enter the oral cavity and line the posterior and left walls of the oral cavity figs a c c c. their kinetids are extremely densely packed and give rise to nematodesmata that merge with the axial nematodesmata to support the oralfigure 2. scanning electron micrographs of aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.

longitudinal section of the oral cavity showing the numerous oralised somatic kineties of monokinetids on the left l wall the non-ciliated right r wall and a lip-like structure li scale bars a  1 um b  1 um c  10 um.figure 7. electron micrographs of the axial nematodesmata a and mixed dorsal brush b c of aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.

used for light microscopy and genetic characterization was col- lected from the crop of a hoatzin collected in the apure river region apure state venezuela 6 55.61 n 68 31.501 w which we here desig- nate as the type host and type locality provided bya-d. g. wright see the sam- ple used for scanning and transmission electron microscopy was collected from the crop of a hoatzin collected in the gallery forest of san geronimo creek at pinero ranch in the cen- tral venezuelan plains llanos centrales cojedes state venezuela 8 571 n 68 181 w and providedby dr. m. g. dominguez-bello see bello molecular phylogenetic positionthe partial ssurrna gene sequence of avi- isotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.

endosymbionts of the crop of the hoatzin opisthocomus hoazin medium-sized spheroid to ovoid cells holotrichously ciliated oral region near equatorial somatic kineties on the right border of the vestibulum which do not enter the oral cavity having densely packed kinetids while somatic kineties on the posterior and left borders of the oral cavity extending inwards to line those walls of the vestibulum right wall of the vestibulum is naked.etymology.

confirmed by quantitative pcr that the proto- zoan abundances were in the range of 104 per gm reported by we now provide a morphological and genetical characterization of this isotrichid-like ciliate which we name as aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.. we also discuss the possible origin of this symbiotic association and emphasize that this association isfigure 1. schematic representation of part of the digestive tract of the hoatzin.

from this extracellular connection  b they branch into the cortex in 4-7 finger-like extensions like the teeth on a comb clv a b. there is often dense material on the cytoplasmic surface of these extensions similar to what one might observefigure 4. protargol stains of aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.

a and the oral cavity arrow whose left wall ciliature is schematically drawn in c. d. posterior view of a cell indicating the cytoproct arrow scale bars  20 um.table 1. morphometric characterization of the trichostome ciliate aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.

standard deviation n  sample size.body width umventral view chatton-lwoff stained47.36.934-5917body depth umlateral view chatton-lwoff stained38.65.131-5012macronuclear length um macronuclear width umfigure 5. a. electron micrograph of a longitudinal section of aviisotricha hoazini n. gen. n. sp.

