Glucagon acts on the liver by stimulating the cAMP-PKA-CREAB signaling pathway and increasing the hepatic production of kisspeptin.Nutritional and genetic models of insulin resistance- lacking Kiss1 gene present augmented glucose-stimulated insulin secretion GSIS and improved glucose toleranceand provide insights on the role of Kisspeptin on glucagon regulation of insulin secretion.Insulin-like growth factor binding proteins IGFBPs play a central role in insulin signaling and are expressed in a widespreadinhibits insulin secretionin a K -dependent manner.Theeffects of leptin on b-cells may be indirect and further studies are needed to elucidate the mechanisms of its action.Adipsin was among the adipokines identified early and observed to be reduced in obesity and diabetes.

GLP-1 and GIP are among the most famous incretins.GIP and GLP-1 are released from intestinal K and L cells respectively in response to glucose and lipids and improve GSIS.GLP-1 stimulates insulin secretion in response to glucose and also acts on a-cells through glucagon like peptide 1 receptor GLP-1R to inhibit glucagon secretion.Interestingly ablationof GLP-1R in b-cells does not disrupt GLP-1 effects on insulin secretion suggesting that GLP-1 acts on b-cells through a neuronal mechanism.Variants in the GIP receptor gene locus have been associated with higher susceptibility for T2Dbut its mechanism of action in b-cells are complex.Transgenic mice lacking glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor selectively on b-cells present with decreased GSIS in response to meals but preserve their insulin sensitivity.Nonetheless b-cells lacking glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide receptor are more susceptible to apoptosis and exhibit lower expression of T-cell specific transcription factor-1 from Tcf7 gene.Tcf7 has been relatively recently reported to be decreased in diabetic rodent islets and in T2D islets and suggested to be important for the anti-apoptotic effects of GIP.Although incretins stimulate insulin secretion in response to nutrients decretins act by inhibiting insulin secretion in fasting conditions.

Thyroid hormone has been linked to altered GSIS in people with prediabetes suggesting that thyroid hormones are involved in the regulation of insulin secretion from b-cells.Aguayo-Mazzucato et al.

Furthermore reference lists of reviews original papers and our personal knowledge were reviewed and an additional 16 publications were selected.CROSSTALK BETWEEN b-CELLS AND METABOLIC TISSUESLiverThe existence of circulating b-cell growth factors was hypothe- sized more than a decade ago when Flier et al.

Recently Jalabert et al.

Imai et al.

The brain also expresses Glut2 glucokinase and KATP channel and those three molecules in the brain play crucial roles in the regulation of glucagon secretion in response to glucose.Tarussio et al.

Interestingly Rodriguez-Diaz et al.

Lee et al.

Recently Bruin et al.

