there were no significant differences p  0.05 in the levels of serum tumour necrosis factor-alpha tnf-a and il-1b between the bfld and bcpd groups.there was no significant difference in the ph values of the jejunal luminal content between the bfld and bcpd groups p  0.05. however the ph values of the colonic luminal content collected from piglets in the bfld group were significantly lower than the ph values of the colonic luminal content collected from piglets in the bcpd group p  0.05.the jejunal luminal content collected from the bfld group had significantly higher lactic acid and lithocholicacid lca concentrations p  0.01 and significantly lower cholic acid ca concentrations p  0.05 than that collected from the bfld group.

there were no significant differences in chenodeoxycholic acid cdcatable 3. compositions and relative abundance of microorganism in colonic luminal content.and deoxycholic acid dca concentrations in the jejunal luminal content between the bfld and bcpd groups p  0.05.the colonic luminal content collected from the bfld group had significantly higher lactic acid chenode-oxycholic acid and lithocholic acid concentrations than that collected from the bcpd group p  0.01. thetable 4. differential metabolites in jejunal luminal content of weaned piglets between different treatments.table 5. differential metabolites in colonic luminal content of weaned piglets between different treatments.concentrations of cholic acid and deoxycholic acid in the colonic luminal content collected from the bfld group were not significantly higher than those in the colonic content collected from the bcpd group p  0.05.diarrhoea incidence.

data on otu and alpha diversity of the microorganism communi- ties in different dietary treatment groups are listed in the otu number chao 1 and shannon values of bacterial communities in the jejunal luminal content of weaned piglets from the bacillus subtilis fermented liquid diet bfld group were lower p  0.05 than those of weaned piglets from the bacillus subtilis-supplemented commercial pellet diet bcpd group.

in contrast the otu numbers and chao 1 values of bacterial communi- ties in the colonic luminal content of weaned piglets from the bfld group were higher p  0.05 than those of weaned piglets from the bcpd group which did not hold true for the shannon value.

the chao 1 values of the fungal community were lower p  0.05 in the jejunal luminal content but were higher p  0.05 in the colonic luminal content of weaned piglets from the bfld group than those of weaned piglets from the bcpd group.

compared with weaned piglets from the bcpd group weaned piglets from the bfld group had a higher p  0.05 relative abundance of firmicutes in the jejunal and colonic luminal contents a lower p  0.05 relative abundance of ascomycota in the jejunal luminal content and a higher p  0.05 relative abundance of ascomycota in the colonic luminal content.

the relative abundances of bacteroidetes actinobacteria and proteobacteria were lower p  0.05 in the jejunal and colonic luminal contents of weaned piglets from the bfld group compared with those from the bcpd group.

the relative abundance of lactobacillus in the jejunal and colonic luminal contents of weaned piglets from the bfld group was higher p  0.05 than that of weaned piglets from the bcpd group.

weaned piglets from the bfld group had a lower p  0.05 relative abundance of kazachstania in the jejunal luminal content and a higher p  0.05 relative abundance of kazachstania in the colonic luminal content compared with weaned piglets from the bcpd group.

the relative abundances of streptococcus clostridiumsensustricto bacteroides and flavobacterium in the jejunal luminal content of weaned piglets from the bfld group were significantly lower p  0.01 or p  0.05 than those of weaned piglets from thetable 2. compositions and relative abundance of microorganism in jejunal luminal content.bcpd group.

piglets from the bfld group had higher p  0.05 relative levels of 3-hydroxypropionic acid and orotic acid in their jejunal luminal content and higher p  0.05 relative levels of stigmasterol in their colonic luminal content than piglets from the bcpd group.

piglets from the bfld group had sig- nificantly higher serum interleukin-6 il-6 levels p  0.01 than piglets from the bcpd group t6.

the data in show that piglets from the bfld group had a higher incidence of diarrhoea than piglets from the bcpd group at each experimental time point but there was no significant differ- ence p  0.05 in the incidence of diarrhoea between the bfld and bcpd groups.discussionprevious studies have reported that the diversity composition and relative abundance of intestinal flora can be influenced by probiotic administration or dietary patterns.

regarding the relative abundances of flora in the colonictable 6. differences in serum cytokine ph lactic acid total bile acids and unconjugated bile acids between bfld group and bcpd group.table 7. difference in diarrhoea incidence between bfld group and bcpd group.luminal contents piglets fed a bacillus subtilis fermented liquid diet not only had higher p  0.05 relative abun- dances of organisms of the firmicutes phylum and lactobacillus genus but also had higher p  0.05 relative abundances of organisms of the ascomycota phylum and kazachstania genus than did piglets fed a bacillus subtilis-supplemented pellet diet.

piglets from the bfld group had significantly higher orotic acid levels in their jejunal luminal content than piglets from the bcpd group.

