addition of 2 enrichment culture did not enhance methane pro-keywords anaerobic digestion biogaslignocellulosic feedstock 454 amplicon sequencing t-rflpmcraduction whereas in set-2 the methane yield was increased by 27. the bacterial communities were examined by 454 amplicon sequencing of 16s rrna genes while terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism t-rflp fingerprinting of mcra genes was applied to analyze the methanogenic com- munities.

after the third transfer cultures were up-scaled in 450 ml batches with 4.5 g wheat straw to get enough inoculum for bio- methane potential bmp analysis.bmp assaythe potential effects of bioaugmentation with cellulolytic mixed cultures to enhance ad of wheat straw was assessed in batch tests at 37 oc using the automatic methane potential test system ampts ii bioprocess control.

the methane productionenrichment culture did not enhance the methane yield consider-in the bioaugmented reactors set up with an inoculum containingably 166 mln ch4g-1.

thus the standard inoculum and the reactor samples taken on the last day of operation of the 4 enrichment196 mln ch4g-1 representing an enhancement by 27. althoughculture added set-ups and non-bioaugmented control set-ups werethese methane yields are rather low indicating that wheat straw is not a suitable mono-substrate for biogas production our study shows the potential of the bioaugmentation approach to improve methane yields from lignocellulose-rich feedstocks in general.

in that study the authors observed a faster methane production in the beginning of the bmp tests but no sig- nificant enhancement of the cumulative methane yield.

eeffect of bioaugmentation by cellulolytic bacteria enriched from sheep rumen on methane production from wheat strawgozde ozbayram  sabine kleinsteuber   marcell nikolausz  bahar ince orhan ince a department of environmental engineering faculty of civil engineering istanbul technical university maslak istanbul turkeyb department of environmental microbiology helmholtz centre for environmental research - ufz leipzig germanyc institute of environmental sciences bogvazici university bebek istanbul turkeya r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 14 november 2016 received in revised form14 march 2017accepted 15 march 2017available online 18 march 2017handling editor kornel l. kovacsa b s t r a c t the aim of this study was to determine the potential of bioaugmentation with cellulolytic rumen microbiota to enhance the anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic feedstock.

to investigate the effects of bioaugmentation on methane production from straw the enrichment culture was added to batch reactors in proportions of 2 set-1 and 4 set-2 of the microbial cell number of the standard inoculum slurry.

the methane production in the bioaugmented reactors was higher than in the control reactors.

after 30 days of batch incubation the average methane yield was 154mln ch4 g-1 in the control reactors.

recently researchers have shown an increased interest in the bioaugmentation strategy to enhance the hydrolysis rate and consequently methane pro- duction from many plant residues such as wheat straw  sweet corn processing waste  corn straw and cattail .

the produced methane volume was measured online and automatically corrected for the n2 present in the system and normalized to standard conditions p 101.325 kpa t 273.15 k no humidity.

the methane content in the culture bottles increased over time.

it was 9 at the end of the first transfer and increased to 24 in the second transfer b. the highest methane content was recor- ded at the end of the third transfer 31. thus the enrichment procedure enriched not only bacteria but also methanogens and their metabolic contribution increased during the transfers.

however the ph slightly increased in the second and third trans- fers after day 14. this observation could be attributed to the con- sumption of vfa in the cultures and correlated with the higher methane production in the third transfer.

the control bottles produced no vfa or only low amounts of acetic and propionic acid 105 - 15 mgl on day 30 maybe due to the activity of some spore-forming bacteria that had survived the autoclaving procedure.bioaugmentation potential of the enrichment culture in ad of wheat strawthe methane production enhancement potential of the enrich- ment cultures was assessed in a batch experiment.

