the h. pylori prevalence observed in this study matched those previously described for the danish population.1827 when retested eradication was achieved in 82 of patients who initially tested positive for h. pylori which is in accordance with a previous danish study that reported an eradication rate of 87.27 as patients are less likely to be retested if symptoms are relieved after treatment we expect similar eradication rates or even higher to be present in the remainder of h. pylori-positive patients.interpretation of any beneficial effects of h. pylori colonization from this study is challenging as colonic diverticular disease codes cover heterogenic clinical pictures probably associated with a somewhat different etiology making the following hypothesis speculative.

however such a bias should have been preserved in the follow-up anda43210b2.01.51.00.50.0024681012years after test for h. pylori024681012years after test for h. pylorieliminated by the analysis of patients more likely to have complicated colonic diverticular disease which was not observed.there have been no studies investigating h. pylori infection as a risk factor for colonic diverticular disease.

ethicsthe study was approved by the national board of health and by the danish data protection agency journal number 2010-41-5020. approval from the danish committee on health research ethics was not necessary according to danish law.3  results  participants and descriptive dataaltogether 56 001 individuals underwent a first-time ubt resulting in an h. pylori prevalence in the entire cohort of 20. people born in 1910-1920 had an h. pylori prevalence of 34 and people born in 1980-1990 had an h. pylori prevalence of 11. patients who were h.aprimary is defined as patients who had been hospitalized with colonic diverticular disease as the principal diagnostic code.table 2 diverticular disease prevalence before urea breath testadjusted results are shown in bold whereas unadjusted results are shown in italics.

results were adjusted for the confounding variables of gender age and year of h. pylori test.aodds ratio and confidence interval compared with h. pylori-negative patients.bprimary is defined as patients who had been hospitalized with colonic diverticular disease as the principal diagnostic code.pylori positive were slightly older median 45.2 years than h. pylori- negative patients median 41.7 years.

results were adjusted for the confounding variables of gender age and year of h. pylori test.ahazard ratio hr and confidence interval ci compared with h. pylori-negative individuals.bprimary is defined as patients who had been hospitalized with colonic diverticular disease as the principal diagnostic code.eradication of h. pylori.

helicobacter pylori is known to be negatively associated with inflammatory bowel diseases2223 possibly achieved through higher levels of foxp3 regulatory t cells which decrease inflammation.3132 however no known effects of h. pylori can explain our observations.another reasonable explanation for the observed protective role of h. pylori is the possibility that h. pylori is linked to other factorsthat are important for the development of colonic diverticular disease.

we still found h. pylori to be associated with fewer registrations of colonic diverticular disease diagnoses for people born in denmark or0.63 ci 0.49-0.80 and people born outside denmark or0.66 ci 0.32-1.34. in the 6 years of the observation period following the ubt we found that the patients who tested positive for h. pylori were less likely to be diagnosed with colonic diverticular disease however this difference did not reach statistical significance hr0.88 ci 0.74-1.04 table 3 figure 1a.

however this is an unlikely scenario as a previous study did not show this phenome- non to be present for pathogenic escherichia coli.30 given that colonic diverticular disease may have an immunogenic aspect the observed inverse relationship between h. pylori and colonic diverticular disease may in part be caused by direct mucosal immune modulation by h. pylori.

patients registered before ubt were excluded in the statistical analysis tables 2 and 3.  statistical methodsthe prevalence of colonic diverticular disease was compared between patients with vs. without h. pylori infection by logistic regression adjusting for the confounding variables of gender age year of h. pylori test and country of birth denmark reference or any other country.

we found that patients who tested positive for h. pylori were less likely to have been reg- istered with a colonic diverticular disease diagnoses before the ubt or0.62 ci 0.50-0.78 table 2. as prevalence of both h. pylori infection and registered diverticular disease diagnoses dif- fered substantially between people born in- or outside denmark we performed a subanalysis.

after the ubt and after h. pylori eradication this inverse association did not persist.our study demonstrates a novel association between the absence of h. pylori infection and the registration of colonic diverticular disease diagnoses.

in the follow-up period colonic diverticular disease registrations were com- parable between h. pylori-positive and h. pylori-negative patients.

a previous study found no changes in orocecal transit time according to h. pylori status mak- ing this explanation less likely.29 as h. pylori changes the acidic milieufigure 1 incidence of colonic diverticular disease after a urea breath test ubt with presumed helicobacter pylori eradication after a positive test.

if our observations were due to such factors we would have expected the trend to persist even after h. pylori eradication which was not the case indicating that neither these biases can explain our findings.in conclusion our study demonstrated that the risk of being diag- nosed with colonic diverticular disease is significantly reduced in indi- viduals infected with h. pylori.

no difference in the increased incidence of colonic diverticular disease was found among patients who were h. pylori negative according to the ubt hazard ratio 0.90 ci 0.65-1.23in the stomach it may increase susceptibility to other enteropatho- genic bacteria which could also lead to diarrhea or protect against colonic diverticular disease in an alternative manner.

