in the clp group between t1 and t2a sta- tistically significant increase was observed in the prevalencetable 2 statistical comparison of microorganism frequency prevalence colonisation and growth intensity between clp group and cspgroup at t1.microorganism colonisation gip valuea colonisation gia1a2b1b2streptococcus mitis63.37310030.45860.053.393.33escherichia coli frequency that is percentage  of subjects from clp or csp group with a given microorganism colonisation percentage  of smears ofa given bacterial species from the palate andor from the tongue a1 smears were obtained from palatal mucosa on the cleft margin in clp subjects a2 smears were obtained from the dorsum of the tongue in clp subjects b1 smears were obtained from the palatal mucosa in csp subjects b2 smears were obtained from the dorsum of the tongue in csp subjects gi growth intensity achi- square test results printed in boldface have reached statistical significance p 0.05.of 9 bacterial species s. mitis p  0.006 s. sanguinis p  0.012 s. salivarius p0.001 s. aureus mssa p0.001cloacae p  0.021 k. pneumoniae p  0.006 and k. oxytocap 0.001. moreover a statistically significant decrease in the percentage of gemella morbillorum p  0.041 was revealed at t2.

k. clarren b. anderson and l. s. wolf feeding infants with cleft lip cleft palate or cleft lip and palate cleft palate journal vol.

we assessed the formation of the oral microbiota in infants with complete cleft lip and palate clp or cleft soft palate csp in the neonatal period t1 time and again in the gum pad stage t2 time.

however the researchers observed the species in only 2.3 of patients with cleft palate 32. in contrast chuo anditive smears taken from patients with cleft lip andor palate prior to surgical repair 18. the presence of -haemolytic streptococci in the oral cavity of subjects with clp is related to postoperative complications such as slow wound healing or the development of abscesses and fistulae .s.

this condition adversely affects natural sucking or even impairs the ability to swallow food moreover neonates and infants with orofacial cleft require specialised care to maintain proper hygiene of the incisive bone nasal passages and the oral cavity with special attention paid to preparation for future surgical procedures 14. cleft soft palate csp is a less severe form of orofacial cleft with the continuity of the lips and hard palate maintained.

neonates with complete cleft lip and palate clp are characterised by the existence of communication between oral and nasal cavities extending from the upper lip and nasal vestibule to the end of the soft palate.

furthermore changes in the amount and composition of oral microbiota have been reported in subjects with different types of cleft palate during deciduous or permanent dentition and as the result of surgical or orthodontic treatment 8-.both abnormal morphology and improper function of the oral cavity in newborns with cleft palate create a differentzabrze.

h. meskin r. j. gorlin and r. j. isaacson abnormal morphology of the soft palate i. the prevalence of cleft uvula the cleft palate journal vol.

the subjects with clp were delivered by caesarean section significantly more frequently compared to the csp group p  0.038. the study groups were age- and birth weight-matched table .the genus streptococcus was found most frequently in both the clp and csp groups in the neonatal period 63 whereas streptococcus mitis s. mitis was the most frequentlythe proportions in which the palate a1 b1 and the tongue a2 b2 were colonised by each microorganism were similar to that observed in the neonatal period.

sanguinis prevailed on the palate a1 b1 table .moreover infants from clp group and from csp group presented with streptococcus agalactiae s. agalactiae 6.6 16 and infants with clp also presented with streptococcus pyogenes s. pyogenes 13.3 table development of the microbiota between t1 and t2clp group.

this observation is consistent with the reports of other authors who confirmed a selective ability in the adherence of streptococci to oral epithelial cells 1. the majority of streptococci collected from the palate and the tongue showed abundant growth in both clp and csp group.-haemolytic streptococci were not found in clp or csp group subjects in the neonatal period.

the exclusion criteria were 1 the coexistence of orofacial cleft with other developmental abnormalities 2 antibiotic therapy 3 respiratory tract infections 4 tube feeding 5 treatment with palatal plate6 natal or neonatal teeth 7 deciduous teeth at t2 8 past surgical repair of cleft lip andor palate and 9 failure to appear for the follow-up visit between the eighth and eighteenth week of life.

hindawibiomed research internationalvolume 2017 article id 1460243 11 pages research articlea comparative study of oral microbiota in infants with complete cleft lip and palate or cleft soft palateagnieszka machorowska-pienidhek1 anna mertas2 mabgorzata skucha-nowak3 marta tanasiewicz3 and tadeusz morawiec41 department of orthodontics school of medicine with the division of dentistry in zabrze medical university of silesia in katowice traugutta square 2 41-800 zabrze poland2department of microbiology and immunology school of medicine with the division of dentistry in zabrze medical university of silesia in katowice jordana 19 41-808 zabrze poland3department of conservative dentistry with endodontics school of medicine with the division of dentistry in zabrze medical university of silesia in katowice akademicki square 17 41-902 bytom poland4department of dental surgery school of medicine with the division of dentistry in zabrze medical university of silesia in katowice akademicki square 17 41-902 bytom polandcorrespondence should be addressed to agnieszka machorowska-pieniaz.ek received 5 december 2016 revised 12 february 2017 accepted 7 march 2017 published 14 march 2017academic editor koichiro wadacopyright c 2017 agnieszka machorowska-pieniaz.ek et al.

costa j. e. de oliveira lima m. r. gomide and o. p. da silva rosa clinical and microbiological evaluation of the periodontal status of children with unilateral complete cleft lip and palate the cleft palate-craniofacial journal vol.

l. cheng s. l. moor and c. t. c. ho predisposing factors to dental caries in children with cleft lip and palate a review and strategies for early prevention cleft palate-craniofacial journal vol.

