Thirteenth Australian Wine Industry Technical Conference Australian Wine Industry Technical Conference Adelaide Australia 2007 p 400.Coulter A. D. Capone D. L. Baldock G. A. Cowey G. D. Francis I. L. Hayasaka Y. Holdstock M. G. Sefton M. A. Simos C. A. Travis B. Taints and Off-Flavours in Wine Case Studies of Recent Industry Problems 13th ed.

Hence it is increasingly clear that a key role of flavor precursors from grapes and in wine goes well beyond enhancing desirable aromas during winemaking and adding complexity during aging and comes from the likely contributions of flavor precursors toretronasal aroma formation and perception of wine flavor intensity length and aftertaste.With this in mind it appears very worthwhile for enologists and researchers to shift their focus from identifying aroma precursors in grapes to understanding aroma precursors present in bottled wine and to optimize winemaking practices that favor the retention of desirable and the formation of additional precursors during winemaking over early release of aromas prebottling.AUTHOR INFORMATIONCorresponding AuthorM.J.H.

Rather wines will gain their aroma characteristics from unique blends of many aroma compounds.- Flavor diversity subtlety and complexity are highly valued by wine experts and consumers alike indeed a great deal of diversity evident among white and red wines derives from quite subtle aroma nuances and distinct aroma profiles.The volatile compounds in wine arise from several sources directly from the grape berry from yeast and bacterial metabolism from extraction of heat-treated oak wood from chemical reactions upon storage and from enzymatic andor chemical reactions of nonvolatile precursors during grape processing winemaking andor storage.Knowledge of the identity of compounds that are responsible for wine aroma and flavor and of their origin formation and degradation pathways is highly desirable as a means of better understanding the consequences of climatic impacts seasonal conditions andplanting decisions and for improving grape-growing and winemaking practices.Anyone who has had an opportunity to taste both grape juice and the corresponding wine will realize that the flavors of juice and wine have little in common juice from most varietalsFrom a historical perspective Cordonnier and Bayonnove demonstrated as early as 1974 the enzymatic release of monoterpenes from precursors present in Muscat of Alexandria grapes.Further research demonstrated the ability to release free aroma compounds during winemaking and storageand hydrolysis studies followed by GC-MS profiling established the identity of a range of monoterpene aglycones.

2011 59 9717-9746.Janusz A. Capone D. L. Puglisi C. J. Perkins M. V. Elsey G. M. Sefton M. A. E-1-236-Trimethylphenylbuta-13-diene a potent grape-derived odorant in wine.

When present in wine at concentrations exceeding their perception threshold 4-ethylphenol and 4-ethylguaiacol impart elasto- plastBand-Aid medicinal barnyard and earthy aromas they can also contribute a metallic aftertaste in Brettanomyces- affected wines.Although there has been debate about the desirability of these characters most wine experts agree that 'brett' spoils wine if it is allowed to proliferate during wine aging and storage and metabolize the flavor precursors hydroxycinnamic acids and vinylphenols.The range of exogenous taints affecting wines across the world is large and the occasional formation of taint volatiles from additives or precursors present in winemaking additives and processing aids has been reported.

2015 21 40-48.Capone D. L. Sefton M. A. Hayasaka Y. Jeffery D. W. Analysis of precursors to wine odorant 3-mercaptohexan-1-ol using hplc-msms resolution and quantitation of diastereomers of 3-S- cysteinylhexan-1-ol and 3-S-glutathionylhexan-1-ol.

2011 59 4649-4658.Capone D. L. Sefton M. A. Jeffery D. W. Analyticalinvestigations of wine odorant 3-mercaptohexan-1-ol and its precursors.

D. Sefton M. A. Taylor D. K. Hydroxycinnamic acid ethyl esters as precursors to ethylphenols in wine.

2008 56 9575-9580.Capone D. L. Sefton M. A. Hayasaka Y. Jeffery D. W. Analysis of precursors to wine odorant 3-mercaptohexan-1-ol using HPLC-MSMS resolution and quantitation of diastereomers of 3-S- cysteinylhexan-1-ol and 3-S-glutathionylhexan-1-ol.

2003 51 7759-7763.Cox A. Capone D. L. Elsey G. M. Perkins M. V. Sefton M.Quantitative analysis occurrence and stability of E-1-236- trimethylphenylbuta-13-diene in wine.

