the first process which involves various virulence factors of animal and human sdse strains is adhesion which comprises biofilm formation the presence of m protein fibronectin laminin and collagen binding proteins as well as the production of blis bacteriocin-like inhibitory sub- stances enabling colonization of human skin microbiota  .in order to determine factors that might be specific markers enabling animal sdse strains to break interspe- cies barrier and colonize human organism the prevalence of virulence factors involved in adhesion and colonization processes both in groups of human and animal clinical sdse strains has been evaluated and compared.materials and methodsbacterial strainssix human sdse isolates from superficial infections from dermatitis wounds bedsores skin abscesses were obtained from synevo medical laboratory in lodz poland.

genetic identification of the selected strains was additionally confirmed by means of amplification of 16s rdna from the selected strains using specific primers .virulence genes detectionpcr reactions were conducted with primers as described in table and with 2xpcr master mix plus kit aa biotechnology poland.

wells incubated with thy without bacteria were used as blanks.blis productionblis activity of sdse strains has been evaluated against five staphylococcus epidermidis strains zmf r69 zmf p37 zmf r156 zmf p89 zmf r57 andfive corynebacterium spp.

the horizontal transfer of virulence genes between sdse strains and from s. pyogenes to sdse strains has already been reported  .

sdse is also prevalent on a skin of healthydogs cats and horses  which poses a risk also to peo- ple having contact with domestic companion animals.due to the presented threat caused by sdse strains this study tried to evaluate if there is any feature differ- entiating animal and human sdse isolates especially in virulence factors involved in the first stages of patho- genesis therefore sdse strains isolated from superfi- cial infections have been selected.

equal groups of human and animal sdse clinical strains were obtained from superficial infections skin wounds abscesses.

strains might constitute the virulence factors which are nec- essary to colonize human organism whereas they are not crucial in animal infections.

those virulence factors mightbe horizontally transferred from human streptococci to ani- mal sdse strains enabling their ability to colonize human organism.keywords streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp.equisimilis  animal-to-human transfer  virulence factors  adhesion  colonization resistance  biofilm formationintroductionstreptococcus dysgalactiae subsp.

hgt might also occur between sdse strains as marcin ciszewski 1 department of pharmaceutical microbiologyand microbiological diagnostics medical university of lodz 137 pomorska st. 90-235 lodz polandan element of adaptation to the new ecological niche i.e.

six animal sdse isolates from clinical cases in pets dogs--from wounds skin abscesses were obtained from vetcomplex veterinary diagnostic centre in lodz poland.identificationmaldi-tof technique matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight  which compares cell proteins specters with database biomerieux vitekr ms was used to identify the analyzed clinical strains.

strains zmf la80 zmf lb80 zmf lk54 zmf la43 zmf lb81 isolatedfrom healthy human skin.according to the method described by mohankumar et al.

with minor modifications overnight cultures of skin microbiota strains were suspended in 0.9 nacl solution obtaining respectively 0.5 mcfarland density for staphylococci and 1.0 mcfarland for corynebac- terium spp.

sdse strains were then spotted onto plates.

the plates were incubated at 37 degc for 24-72 h. inhibition zones around sdse cultures were measured and recorded.resultsthe identification of all sdse strains was confirmed using several methods maldi-tof risa and 16s rdna sequencing.

the prevalence of virulence factors was various in analyzed groups of strains.

