j. psychiatry 189 204-212. doi amani r. 2007. is dietary pattern of schizophrenia patients different from healthy subjects bmc psychiatry 715. doi andreasen n. c. arndt s. swayze v. cizadlo t. flaum m. o'leary d. et al.

inflammatory gi diseases especially colitis are thought to be highly prevalent in over 90 of samples in schizophrenia based on post mortem biopsy hemmings 1990 2004. sex specific gi dysfunction may also be present in males with schizophrenia due to candida albicans exposure severance et al.

empirically based dietary modifications that have been tested in schizophrenia or are potentially relevant to schizophrenia short chain fatty acids scfa immune and metabolic dysfunction will be reviewed.

2013.inflammation treatments and schizophrenia phenotypesmany of the abovementioned treatments are thought to target schizophrenia relevant phenotypes.

these and other potential relationships between o-3 intake and cardiovascular disease risk such as dyslipidemia should be further examined.overall clinical trials of o-3 fatty acids in schizophrenia have demonstrated improvement in psychopathology peet 2006.studies comparing epa and dha in schizophrenia primarily indicate symptom improvement with epa and not dha peet et al.

2015.dha is the primary o-3 fatty acid in the brain dyall 2015. although this is counterintuitive to the findings of beneficial effects for epa rather than dha or dpa in schizophrenia and mood disorder clinical trials significantly lower dha concentrations have been observed in the orbitofrontal cortex of postmortem schizophrenia brains relative to age and gender matched comparison brains mcnamara et al.

's findings and additional experiments will help determine if the elevated b-hydroxybutyrate levels in schizophrenia are a consequence of impaired energy metabolism or a compensatory neurodefense mechanism.however ketogenic diets can also lead to significant adverse effects that are salient for individuals with schizophrenia.

dietary and nutritional investigations that have been conducted in schizophrenia are few with randomized controlled trials of dietary modification being scarce thereby leaving a significant gap in the schizophrenia literature.schizophrenia patients are most likely to benefit from the implementation of individualized dietary interventions due to co-occurring nutritional deficiencies hoffer 2008 kale et al.

therefore it is unknown whether high-fiber mediterranean type dietary modification enriched for scfa production could have a direct effect on improving schizophrenia psychopathology an additive effect via concurrent modification of immune and metabolic markers that may trigger schizophrenia symptoms or primarily an indirect effect.

2005. prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in patients with schizophrenia baseline results from the clinical antipsychotic trials of intervention effectiveness catie schizophrenia trial and comparison with national estimates from nhanes iii.

2006. low rates of treatment for hypertension dyslipidemia and diabetes in schizophrenia data from the catie schizophrenia trial sample at baseline.

278 11312-11319. doi brown s. birtwistle j. roe l. and thompson c. 1999. the unhealthy lifestyle of people with schizophrenia.

9 68-76. doi cannon m. jones p. b. and murray r. m. 2002. obstetric complications and schizophrenia historical and meta-analytic review.

j. psychiatry 159 1080-1092. doi cantor-graae e. and selten j.-p. 2005. schizophrenia and migration a meta- analysis and review.

39 867-871. doi chambers r. a. krystal j. h. and self d. w. 2001. a neurobiological basis for substance abuse comorbidity in schizophrenia.

