thus the distinct ability of g- bacteria such as ecn in modulating frequencies and functions of dcs may have beneficial impacts on induction of protective immunity against pathogens.in our recently published study  we observed higher nk cytotoxic function and increased frequencies of pdcs in ecn colonized compared with lgg colonized or uncolonized piglets.the enhanced nk cell activity coincided with higher serum il-12 levels in vivo in ecn colonized piglets  and also dc production of il-12 in vitro .

further supplementation of ecn to infants for the first 5 days immediately after birth resulted in persistence of the probiotic for 6 months as indicated by fecal shedding of ecn .

similar to the higher beneficial effects of ecn than lgg on ameliorating hrv infec- tion higher protective effects against salmonella were observed in ecn compared with bifidobacterium choerinum-supplemented gn piglets .

the higher protective effect of ecn against salmonella was associated with increased expression of zo-1 and occludin in ileal epithelial cells and decreased inflammatory tnf-a cytokine levels in the ecn colonized gn piglets .

also mono ecn or dual ecn  lgg colonization significantly increased serum total iga and igg responses compared with lgg colonized or uncolonized piglets  .

indeed both the lps portion of ecn and whole ecn lysate were identified as potent inducers of il-10 production in peripheral blood mononuclear cells .

further higher frequenciesof splenic tlr9 mononuclear cells were detected in ecn  lgg colonized compared with the monocolonized ecn or lgg gn piglets .

thus we speculate that higher systemic tlr9 expression in ecn  lgg compared with ecn or lgg monocolonized piglets might be a contributing factor in enhancing immunoglobulin responses as reported in several earlier studies  .one unanswered question is the involvement of total iga lev- els in modulating immunopathology during microbial infections.

in our simplified in vivo gn piglet model system it appears that the induced beneficial effects of g- ecn against hrv disease may be accomplished by the integrated interaction of dcs nk cells and immunoglobulins as well as direct binding of ecn to virus .

the authors thank dr. j. hanson r. wood and j. ogg j. chepngeno and k. scheuer for their technical assistance.referencesnicholson jk holmes e kinross j burcelin r gibson g jia w et al.

annu rev food sci technol 2012 3425-47. doyatsunenko t rey fe manary mj trehan i dominguez-bello mg contreras m et al.

front immunol 2014 5427. dohuda mn lewis z kalanetra km rashid m ahmad sm raqib r et al.

dig dis sci 2002 472625-34. doi10.1023a1020501202369engelbrektson a korzenik jr pittler a sanders me klaenhammer tr leyer g et al.

0910307107walker clf rudan i liu l nair h theodoratou e bhutta za et al.

j pediatr gastroenterol nutr 1995 20333-8. donagata s asahara t ohta t yamada t kondo s bian l et al.

