the sediment texture  of sand silt and clay and sediment conductivity data was available from another parallel study in which sediment texture was analyzed from selected stations in similar seasons within our study period annual report .

however significant differences were observed in the community composition between bulk sediment communities sampled in monsoon winter and summer seasons unifrac weighted score 0.57 summer-winter 0.67 summer-mon- soon 0.67 winter-monsoon weight significance b 0.001. given the availability of data on bacterial communities from bulk sediment samples that were collected on different dates from the same sector or on the same day but from different sectors we were able to address the questions how bulk sediment bacterial communities changed at small geographic distances over time and space .

salinity and macrophyte drive the biogeography of the sedimentary bacterial communities in a brackish water tropical coastal lagoonpratiksha behera  sofia mahapatra  madhusmita mohapatra  ji yoon kim  tapan k. adhya vishakha raina  mrutyunjay suar  ajit k. pattnaik 1 gurdeep rastogi a wetland research and training centre chilika development authority barkul balugaon 752030 odisha indiab department of integrated biological science pusan national university geumjeong-gu 46241 busan south koreac school of biotechnology kiit university patia bhubaneswar 751024 odisha indiah i g h l i g h t sbulk and rhizosphere sediment commu- nities were investigated in a brackish water coastal lagoon.spatiotemporal patterns in bacterialcommunities were linked to salinity and 'the rhizosphere effect'.proteobacterial lineages revealed differ- ential response against the salinity gra- dient.metabolic mapping provided detailedinsights on the biogeochemical poten- tial of bulk and rhizosphere communities.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 3 february 2017received in revised form 28 march 2017accepted 29 march 2017 editor d. barcelokeywordscoastal lagoon illumina sequencing bulk sediment phragmites karka halodule uninervisa b s t r a c t brackish water coastal lagoons are least understood with respect to the seasonal and temporal variability in their sedimentary bacterial communities.

sediment tightly attached to the root surfaces of plants were con- sidered as rhizospheric sediment.

the ph of sediment samples was measured by mixing 5 g of sediment sample in 5 ml of water as described earlier  .

target copy numbers in sediment dna were es- timated from the standard curves regression coefficient r2  0.98- 0.99 and expressed as bacterial cells gram-1 of the sediment consider- ing 3.6 copies of 16s rrna genes in a bacterial cell .

table 1. in order to estimate bacterial carbon corresponding to the bacterial abundanceswe adopted a conversion factor of 1.79 x 10-14 g carbon per cell  which suggested that bacterial carbon  in sediment var- ied between 0.00004055 and 0.00575478. these estimations suggest that contribution of bacterial carbon to the toc of the bulk sediments  was almost negligible average 0.000269 g bacterial carbon g-1 sediment.

most of the bacterial sequences in bulk sediments were affil- iated to proteobacteria 53.1 actinobacteria 3.8 bacteroidetes 3.7 acidobacteria 3.6 firmicutes 2.9 nitrospira 1.9 chloroflexi 1.4 and verrucomicrobia 1.2 a. within the proteobacteria d-proteobacteria 19.8 g-proteobacteria 16.6 b- proteobacteria 9.4 and a-proteobacteria 3.5 were the most abun- dant classes in the bulk sediment communities b. firmicutes were mostly represented by the clostridia 1.7 and bacilli 1 where- as bacteroidetes were principally represented by the sphingobacteria 1.2 in the bulk sediment communities.sequencing of the rhizospheric sediments of seagrass yielded a totalof 85812 sequences with an average of 8581.2 - 5408.8 sequences per sample supp.

in brief rhi- zosphere communities were mostly represented by proteobacteria 59.8 bacteroidetes 10.1 firmicutes 5.6 actinobacteria 4.8 and chloroflexi 1.4 that all together constituted 82 of the total bac- terial population a. at the class level communities were mostly represented by b-21.4 g-12.8 d-12.1 a-10.6 proteobacteria actinobacteria 4.8 bacilli 2.7 clostridia 2.6 sphingobacteria 2 and flavobacteria 1.6 b.importantly it was observed that a significant proportion of bacteri- al 16s rrna gene sequences in the bulk and rhizosphere communities could not be assigned to any known phyla and were considered as 'un- classified' bacteria a. however the abundance of these 'unclassi- fied' bacteria was much higher in bulk sediment 26.8 as compared with the rhizosphere communities of p. karka 14.1 or seagrass 2.8. this indicated that in brackish water lagoonal environment bulk sediment communities were much more complex and poorly un- derstood with respect to their taxonomic identities compared to the rhi- zosphere communities.

verrucomicrobia are aerobic heterotrophs predominantly with carbohydrate degrading metabolism and show a wide-range of distribution in both freshwater and marine habitats .bulk and rhizosphere sediment communities were highly variablein general sediment communities were highly variable and their clustering appeared to be governed by many factors such as presenceand type of macrophyte seasons locations and site-specific environ- mental factors e.g.

6. the first two axis of rda for environmental variables water and sediment parameters associated with bulk sediment bacterial community composition in chilika lagoon a. each environmental variable is shown by an arrow and represents an axis while factors seasons sectors are represented by triangles.

using illumina sequencing of the 16s rrna genes from a total of 100 bulk surface sediments we investigated the sedimentary bacterial communities their spatiotemporal distri- bution and compared them with the rhizosphere sediment communities of a common reed phragmites karka and a native seagrass species halodule uninervis in chilika lagoon.

comparative assessment of communities highlighted bac- terial lineages that were responsible for segregating the sediment communities over distinct salinity regimes seasons locations and presence and type of macrophytes.

sediment particle provides a very complex and heterogeneous niche with respect to nutrients and oxygen availability thus supporting a di- verse assemblage of aerobic and anaerobic microbial communities .

additionally most of these studies were temporally limited in the sense that sediment com- munities were examined only in a single season which would notprovide any clue regarding their seasonal variability  .the advent of high-throughput sequencing of community dna i.e.

