openreceived 02 november 2016accepted 13 february 2017published 23 march 2017injections through skin colonized with staphylococcus aureus biofilm introduce contamination despite standard antimicrobial preparation proceduresyi wang valery leng viraj patel  k. scott phillipswhile surgical site preparation has been extensively studied there is little information about resistance of skin microbiota in the biofilm form to antimicrobial decontamination and there are no quantitative models to study how biofilm might be transferred into sterile tissueimplant materials during injections for joint spine and tendon aspiration biopsies and dermal fillers df.

there is increasing comprehension that biofilm is the default lifestyle of bacteria and recent studies suggest that many bacteria colonizing the skin produce biofilm which is resistant to dessi- cation.

using a log-log transfor- mation to compare bioburden in planktonic and biofilm forms the increase of surface bioburden was linear slope  0.3487 r2  0.9975 suggesting that the relationship between inoculum densities and both planktonic and biofilm burden fit closely to power law.

using the pig skin model we tested three of the most commonskin preparation wipes alcohol chlorhexidine and povidone iodine and found that during wiping they reduced the biofilm bacterial burden of s. aureus cfu cm-2 by three logs with no statistically significant differences between wipes.

when df biofilm matures even the highest tolerable doses of antibiotics are often insufficient to eradicate it.

clinical detection of biofilm colonized implants is challenging.

our group has also shown that bacteria can colonize and form biofilm on ultrasoft hydrogels throughout the range of elastic moduli used for most df.

during injection bacteria in biofilm can be introduced from the dermal matrix.

sebaceous glands have significant biofilm burden.

another source of contamination is injection through colonized oral or nasal mucosa which is more likely to have mature biofilm.

to reduce contamination we need to understand 1 how to better prepare the skin to reduce biofilm burden and 2 how to best perform injection to reduce the transfer of remaining burden.

most current antimicrobial test methodsare based on planktonic efficacy and may be less predictive of performance against bacteria in biofilm.

models have been developed to test skin preparation but do not use biofilm.

bacteria in biofilm are resistant to antimicrobials through a number of mechanisms.

it is important to test common preparation methods to determine how well they reduce biofilm burden on an organic matrix like skin.

