post challenge with s. enteritidis the seaweed supplemented sg and cc birds maintained higher p  0.0001 bw 1486-1526 g than control birds 1245 g. additionally birds fed with chlortetracycline also had higher bw 1554 g compared to the control.

at week-4 egg production rate was significantly higher p  0.0001 for birds fed sg and cc 71.4-91.8 compared to negative control birds 35.7. also egg production percentage for the birds fed chlortetracycline increased from week-1 44.9 to week- 4 80.6 which was significantly higher than control 35.7 in week-4 respectively .

fecal samples from chlortetracycline and cc4 supplemented birds tested negative for s. enteritidis on days 5 and 7 post inoculation lowest detection limit  10-1. s. enteritidis colonization in the ceca was also significantly reduced in birds fed cc 4 and chlortetracycline.

at week-4 birds supplemented with seaweeds and chlortetracycline showed an increase in fi 102.2-107.6 gday compared to the control birds 74.7 gday.

similar trends were observed on day 7-pi where dietary inclusion of cc 2 and 4 significantly reduced s. enteritidis counts in excrement of birds comparedto negative control birds.

no treatment effects were observed on day 1-pi on the recovery of s. enteritidis from the excreta samples of birds .red seaweed diets do not affect the recovery of salmonella enteritidis from the egg yolkno s. enteritidis was recovered from the egg yolk samples from seaweed treatment or control birds on days 1 3 5 and 7-post inoculation.red seaweed diets reduce salmonella enteritidis colonization of the ceca in laying henscolonization of s. enteritidis in the ceca was determined at the end of the trial.

there was a significant reduction in the cecal s. enteritidis count in birds fed seaweed diets compared to the control birds .

among the 96 birds used in the trial two birds in the sg2 group showed feed withdrawal symptoms and were euthanized at the beginning of the trial.

in all treatments 16 birdstreatment s. enteritidis was only recovered in the excreta and ceca of inoculated birds eight birds treatment.

however there is a major concern that the use of antibiotics leads to the development of antibiotic resistance and adverse effects on microbiota of the treated birds.

during week-4 48 birds were orally challenged with 2 x 109 cfuml of s. enteritidis.

birds were euthanized and organs ceca ovary liver and spleen were sampled and analyzed for the presence of s. enteritidis 7 days' post inoculation.

currently available vaccines induce specific immune responses in birds protecting them against pathogens.

however the development of a vaccine as a strategy to control s. enteritidis infection in birds has some disadvantages.

therefore a natural alternative that boosts immune responses in birds would be useful to combat pathogen infection.

