genbag anaer atmospheric generators biomerieux were used for incubation under anaerobic conditions.determination of probiotic bacteria growth stimulationthe modified method by su henrikson and mitchell was used to determine the growth of lactobacilli in the presence of mushroom polysaccharides.

the results were presented as the percentage of lactobacilli growth in the presence of each polysaccharide in comparison with the growth in the glucose-containing medium taken as 100.resistance toward acid digestibilitythe digestibility of the mushroom polysaccharides was tested by calculating their degree of hydrolysis when subjected to artificial human gastric juice imitated by the hydrochloric acid buffer containing in gl sodiumyield ww  weight of extracted polysaccharidesweight of dried material x 100chloride--8 potassium chloride--0.2 di-sodium hydro- gen phosphate dihydrate - 8.25 sodium phosphate anhy- drate--14.35 calcium chloride dihydrate--0.1 magne- sium chloride hexahydrate--0.18 adjusted to ph 1 and ph 5 with the addition of 5 m hcl .

relatively high values above 15 were obtained for r. maculata l. flaccida p. cap- noides m. procera and l. perlatum.probiotic bacteria growth stimulationthe ability of mushroom polysaccharides to promote the growth of lactobacilli was determined in vitro by measur- ing absorbance at 0 24 48 and 72 h of incubation.

the growth of the reference strain l. acidophilus in the presence of selected polysac- charides over the incubation time is presented in figure s1 online resource 1. among the 53 mushroom polysac- charides examined 11 did not stimulate the growth of l. acidophilus and were not subjected to statistical analysis.

the absorbance values for mushroom polysaccharides inu- lin fos and controls after 48 h as well as their respective p-values are given in table s1 online resource 1. spe- cies with p  0.05 were considered statistically significant the percentage growth intensity for these polysaccharides was calculated based on the glucose activity which was taken as 100. figure presents the influence of the poly- saccharides on the growth of reference strain l. acidophi- lus.

in comparison with the polysaccharides the com- mercially available prebiotics fos and inulin exhibited significantly lower level of enhancing lactobacilli growth 11.53 and 11.34 respectively.the next step of our study was the assessment of the influence of mushroom polysaccharides in relation to growth of two strains of l. rhamnosus isolated from the gastrointestinal tracts of healthy people.

the present study aimed to inves- tigate the potential of polysaccharides from 53 wild-grow- ing mushrooms to stimulate the growth of lactobacillus acidophilus and lactobacillus rhamnosus and to determine the digestibility of polysaccharide fractions.methods mushroom polysaccharides were precipitated with ethanol from aqueous extracts.

determination of growth promoting activity of polysaccharides was per- formed in u-shaped 96-plates in an elisa reader in rela- tion to the reference strain of l. acidophilus and two clini- cal strains of l. rhamnosus.

the digestibility of mushroompolysaccharides was investigated in vitro by exposing them to artificial human gastric juice.results obtained results revealed that fungal polysaccha- rides stimulate the growth of lactobacillus strains stronger than commercially available prebiotics like inulin or fruc- tooligosaccharides.

moreover selected polysaccharides were subjected to artificial human gastric juice and remain undigested in more than 90.conclusion obtained results indicate that mushroom polysaccharides are able to pass through the stomach unchanged reaching the colon and stimulating the growth of beneficial bacteria.

the concept of functional food includes prebiotics defined as non-digestible food ingredients stimulating the growth of beneficial bacteria in the gi tract.

these two genera exert wide- range activity bifidobacteria have been shown to stimulate the immune system restore the normal flora after antibiotic therapy inhibit pathogen growth and produce vitamin b while lactobacilli help to digest lactose in lactose-intolerant individuals as well as reduce constipation diarrhoea or irritable bowel syndrome .non-digestible carbohydrates including di- oligo- andpolysaccharides galactooligosaccharides and fructoo- ligosaccharides as well as inulin have been studied most extensively and are considered the best prebiotics.

given the growing demand for prebiot- ics new and relatively cheap sources compared to commer- cially available prebiotics must be found.as mentioned above mushrooms are also a very rich source of polysaccharides therefore the aim of our study was to investigate if fungal polysaccharides extracted from various wild-growing polish species might act as growth substrates for the reference lactobacillus acidophilus strain and two clinical strains of lactobacillus rhamnosus.

to the best of our knowledge this report describes the first such wide-range screening study on the stimulation of pro- biotic bacteria growth by polysaccharides from polish wild mushrooms and it constitutes preliminary study investi- gating if these compounds might comply with one of the prebiotic criteria.materials and methodsmaterialsthe wild-growing fruiting bodies of amanita citrina schaeff.

the percentage poly- saccharide yields  were calculated as followsbacterial strains and growth conditionslactobacillus acidophilus atcc 4356 lgc stand- ards and two strains of lactobacillus rhamnosus iso- lated from the gi tract of healthy patients were used.

