still the expression levels of irak1 traf6 and card10 showed the expected increase at convalescent stage in 2 3 and 4 patients respectively .the acute stage of v. cholerae infection induces an epithelial innate immune responseto investigate the degree of a potential immune response induced by v. cholerae o1 bacteria in the duodenal mucosa expression levels of mrna for the pro-inflammatory cytokines inter- feronifn-g il-17a tnf-a and il-6 the inflammasome cytokines il-1b and il-18 and the immune cell attracting chemokines il-8 cxcl9 cxcl10 cxcl11 and cx3cl1 wereexpression levels of target genes for mir-146a show only marginal differences between the acute and the convalescent stage of disease in patients with v. cholerae o1 infection.

furthermore live v. cholerae o1 bacteria but not their secreted products induced all three micrornas in polarized tight monolayers of intestinal epithelial cells.resultsmicrornas mir-146a and mir-155 are expressed in duodenal epithelium of v. cholerae o1 infected patientsto investigate whether the mirnas mir-146a mir-155 and mir-375 are induced by v. cho- lerae o1 and etec infection paired duodenal biopsies were collected from six v. cholerae o1 and four etec infected patients at acute stage day-2 and convalescent stage day-21 post- onset of infection of disease and compared to single biopsies of five healthy controls.

hybridization experiments showed that both mir-146a and mir-155 were highly detected in the mucosa of patients with v. cholerae o1 infection at acute stage with no expression detected in the mucosa from patients with v. cholerae o1 infection at convalescent stage at acute or convalescent stage of etec infection or in healthy controls .

cholerae o1 infection at acute a e and convalescent b f stage of disease one patient with etec infection at acute stage c g and one healthy control d h. i and j show the technical positive and negative control when staining of duodenal mucosa of the patient with v. cholerae o1 infection at the acute stage with a probe for u6 small nuclear rna i and a scrambled microrna-probe j. original magnification x400.

changes in expression levels of mrna for mir-146a target genes chemokines il-8 and cxcl9 and inflammasome cytokine il-1b from acute to convalescent stage of disease in patients with v. cholerae o1 infection.increased rq from acute to convalescent stage of disease.decreased rq from acute to convalescent stage of disease.

in contrast culture supernatants from all three strains cause significant increases in expression levels of mrna for all three cytokines  lower row.discussionin the present study we identified the increased expression of mir-146a and mir-155 in a major population of epithelial cells and in scattered cells presumably immune cells in the lam- ina propria of duodenal mucosa in patients at the acute stage of v. cholerae o1 infection while these micrornas were not induced by etec infection.

to the best of our knowledge this is the first time that increased levels of mir-146a and mir-155 have been demonstrated in the small intestinal mucosa of v. cholerae o1 infected patients and the first time that v. cholerae o1 bacteria have been shownsecreted products of v. cholerae o1 bacteria induce increased expression of genes involved in inflammation in t84 polarized tight monolayer cells while live bacteria do not.

expression levels of irak1 traf6 and card10 mrnas were determined in duodenal biopsies collected at acute stage acute and at the convalescent stage convalescent of disease caused by v. cholerae o1 infection.

expression levels of il-8 cxcl9 and il-1b mrnas were determined in duodenal biopsies collected at acute stage acute and at the convalescent stage convalescent of disease caused by v. cholerae o1 infection.

the counteracting effects anti-inflammatory from the bacteria themselves and pro-inflammatory from their secreted products may be the explanation for the unchanged lev- els of irak1 and traf6 mrnas in patients with acute v. cholerae infection.the increased expression levels of il-8 il-1b and cxcl9 mrnas in the duodenal mucosa at the acute stage of disease suggest an on-going local inflammation in the small intestine.however the magnitude of this inflammatory response was rather weak when estimated as cytokine mrna levels at acute compared to convalescent stage.

cholerae o1 bacteria induce increased expression levels of micrornas in intestinal epithelial cells while secreted products induce an inflammatory responseto address the question whether the bacteria per se are the causative agent for the increased microrna levels seen in the intestinal epithelium during v. cholerae o1 infection weexpression levels of il-8 mrna follow disease activity in patients with v. cholerae o1 infection.

furthermore we show that v. cholerae o1 bacteria including clinical isolates from patients that we demonstrated increased micro- rna expression in the duodenal epithelium induced an increased expression of mir-146a mir-155 and mir-375 in t84 polarized tight monolayer cells suggesting that v. cholerae o1 bacteria can indeed be the cause of the increased levels of mir-146a and mir-155 in the epithe- lium of the infected patients.

however there was no significant difference in their expression levels when these samples were compared to samples from the convalescent stage of disease andmir-146a and mir-155 are expressed in the epithelium and lamina propria of duodenal mucosa in patients with v. cholerae o1 infection at the acute stage.

the expression levels of both mir-146a and mir-155 were significantly higher at acute stage of v. cholerae o1 infection when compared to healthy controls median relative quantity rq 19.6 and 6.6 for mir-146a and mir-155 respectively  with parallel increase in levels of the two micrornas in each biopsy r  0.943 p  0.017. notably no elevated levels were seen for either of these micrornas in patients with acute etec infection .

as seen in  mir-146a and mir- 155 expression levels were significantly higher at the acute stage when compared to thepatients with vibrio cholerae o1 infection at the acute stage show significantly increased levels of micrornas mir-146a and mir-155.

