a ck samples vs. h1 samples b ck samples vs. h2 samples c h1 samples vs. h2 samples d ck samples vs cp samples.differences may be largely due to differences in cp dosage between studies and also due to variations in the physical characteristics of the soils which greatly influence fumigant efficiency  .

based on the qpcr data cp treatment also significantly increased the abundance of denitrifying population with nosz gene p  0.05 compared to that measured in the ck samples d. although some fluctu- ations in narg and napa gene abundance were identified in h1 and l1 samples compared with the samples collected before fumiga- tion no significant differences were found in h2 and l2 samples p  0.05 which suggests that cp treatment only temporarily influenced abundance of nitrate reducing bacteria with narg and napa genes.effects of chloropicrin on soil bacterial diversitya total of 938922 effective reads and 58662 otus were ob- tained from 16s rrna amplicon sequencing following quality trimming.

the levels of statistically significance relative to the control are represented by asterisks  p  0.05  p  0.01 p  0.001.suggesting that cp fumigation caused a long-term decrease in soil microbial diversity.effect of chloropicrin on soil bacterial community composition and shifts in predominant bacterial membersan unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic meanupgma clustering dendrogram  was used to assess the samples collected before and after cp fumigation and samples that were obtained at the same time were grouped together.

these results indicate that ammonia-oxidizing archaea aoa amoa gene abundance for the cp samples was significantly lower than for the ck samples p  0.05 b. however no significant difference p  0.05 was found between the cp and h2l2 samples suggesting that cp treatment decreased abundance of the aoa population.

for example terrimonas haliangium and steroidobacter were increased within h1 and l1 samples colwellia pseudoalteromonas and thalassospira were increased in h2 and l2 samples and flavisolibacter blastocatella and bacillus were increased in all samples.the top 10 most abundant genera between different samples were compared to discovery shifts of the predominant bacterial members data not shown.

furthermore for both unweighted unifrac and weighted unifrac the distances between samples from the different sampling periods achieved statistical significance a and b whereas the distances thetable 1diversity indices and estimated sample coverage of soil samples at the 97 sequence identity level.

the aim of the current study was to evaluate the effects of cp on the soil bacterial community under laboratory conditions.materials and methodssoil and microcosm set-upsoil samples were taken from the top 20 cm of greenhouse soil at beijing yanqing gps coordinates 40o 03024.600n 116o56014.600e.

however few studies have examined the effect of cp on soil microbial communities and few have assessed the ecological safety of cp using ngs.in this study in addition to using 16s rrna amplicon sequencing to investigate the effects of cp on soil microbial communities real- time quantitative pcr was performed to examine the effects of cp on genes encoding key enzymes involved in soil nitrogen cycling.

furthermore meta- transcriptome sequencing offers a powerful approach for investi- gating the effects of fumigants on soil bacterial functional diversity and may be used to verify the hypothesis that cp induces a type of fertilizer effect .conclusionsoil microbes especially bacteria play crucial roles in main- taining the soil ecosystem by regulating several significant soil processes such as degradation of organic pollution compounds nutrient recycling and mineralization.

the first set of samples collected post-fumigation with high and low dosage of cp are expressed as h1 and l1 respectively the second set of samples collected post-fumigation with high and low dosage of cp are expressed as h2 and l2 respectively.

in the first sampling time point the abundance of nitrosomonas increased significantly p  0.05 in h1 samples compared with ck samples.

but in the second sam- pling time point there was no significant difference between h2l2 samples and the ck samples suggesting that cp only increased aob populations at early time points.

the abundance of denitrifier nirs genes in the post-fumigation samples h1 l1 h2 l2 was significantly p  0.05 higher than ck samples although the differences between groups were not significant p  0.05 c. the qpcr data suggested that cp fumigation caused an increase abundance of denitrifiers with nirs gene.

these results indicate that the 16s rrna gene sequence database was sufficient to capture the di- versity of the bacterial communities.after fumigation with cp these diversity indices namely observed species shannon chao1 and ace decreased significantly p  0.05 in the second set of samples collected after fumigation especially in h2 samples .

the h2 samples were clearly distinct from the other samples.

