dnh4 in all three dipteran larva set-ups were significantly higher than prey only  2. dod600 was highest in prey only and lowest in culicids 2.discussionwe showed that the presence of dipteran larvae resulted in significantly higher and faster releases of ammonium and sol- uble protein into the fluids of the artificial pitchers and that the presence of fluid microbes did likewise for ammonium suggesting that both dipteran larvae and microbes facilitate nutrient sequestration in n. gracilis pitchers.

using dipteran larvae prey and fluid volumes mimicking in situ n. gracilis pitcherconditions we con- ducted in vitro digestion experiments and measured changes in available fluid nitrogen in response to dipteran larvae and microbe presence.

13 20160928.received 29 november 2016accepted 6 february 2017subject areasecologykeywordsnepenthes gracilis phytotelm digestive mutualism inquiline plant-microbe interactionauthor for correspondenceweng ngai lame-mail electronic supplementary material is available online at dipteran larvae and microbes facilitate nutrient sequestration in the nepenthes gracilis pitcher plant hostweng ngai lam kwek yan chong ganesh s. anand and hugh tiang wah tandepartment of biological sciences national university of singapore 14 science drive 4 singapore 117543 republic of singaporewnl kyc htwt introductioncarnivorous pitcher plants of the genus nepenthes produce modified water- holding leaf structures that capture and digest animal prey to supplement their nutrient requirements some organisms have adapted to living in the aquatic habitats provided by pitchers and may even be entirely dependent on nepenthes for their survival dipteran larvae are key components of such communities and are thought to facilitate pitcher nitrogen sequestration by converting insolu- ble protease-inaccessible prey protein into inorganic nitrogen which is then absorbed by pitcher glands the idea of digestive mutualism is certainly not restricted to the genus nepenthes and has been demonstrated variously across many unrelated carnivorous plant taxa  dipteran larvae inhabiting pitchers of the functionally similar north american sarracenia purpurea facilitate the conversion of protein into inorganic nitrogen which is then absorbed by the plant providing an energetically efficient nitrogen sequestration mechanism for their host scharmann et al.

this increase was likely attributable to microbial activity since prey th ampicillin set-ups yielded the lowest increments in ammonium.soluble protein da595 accumulated in pitcher fluids with time in all treatments perhaps due to the gradual release of oligopeptides by the action of fluid enzymes on insoluble prey proteins c. this occurred fastest in the presence of dipteran larvae with the most rapid protein accumulation taking place in the early phase of the experiment possibly because e. schuitemakeri greatly fragmented prey carcasses while feeding increasing the exposed surface areas and exoske- leton breakages in prey carcasses for the access of fluid proteolytic enzymes.

n 14 3. online version in colour.large-bodied prey species such as o. smaragdina can remain locked away from pitchers in the absence of dipteran larvae or microbes.while it is possible that the plant-dipteran larva mutual- ism breaks down at higher larval densities we demonstrated here using the 75 - 80th percentile of in situ dipteran larva num- bers that the facilitative relationship between n. gracilis and its most common inhabitants is likely to hold most of the time for the plant2dipteran larva relationship.

all rights reserved.table 1. combinations of dipteran larvae prey and fluid types used for the a digestion experiments and b interaction experiments.2 digestion experiments n 14 6prey th dip3 x e. schuitemakeri th10 x tripteroides spp.10 x o. smaragdinacoarse-filteredprey onlynone10 x o. smaragdinacoarse-filteredprey th ampicillinnone10 x o. smaragdinamicrobe-freecontrolnonenonecoarse-filteredinteraction experiments n 14 3cul th phor5 x e. schuitemakeri th5 x tripteroides spp.10 x o. smaragdinacoarse-filteredculicids10 x tripteroides spp.10 x o. smaragdinacoarse-filteredphorids10 x e. schuitemakeri10 x o. smaragdinacoarse-filteredprey onlynone10 x o. smaragdinacoarse-filteredcontrolnonenonecoarse-filteredsticky carnivorous plant roridula dentata and pameridea sp.

by contrast a growing number of studies in more recent years have shown that pitcher secretions are anti-microbial an obser- vation that seems to point in the direction of an antagonistic relationship between plant and fluid microbes - .in this study we examined the hypothesis of digestive mutualism between n. gracilis pitchers and both dipteran larvae and microbes.

experimental set-ups were similar to those of the digestion experiments with dipteran larva and prey combinations varied according to b. ammonium and microbe concentrations were examined as had been done in the digestion experiments on day 6 of the experiment.resultsdigestion experimentsturbidity dod600 increased with time in prey only set-ups but not in prey th dip and prey th ampicillin set-ups where filter-feeding tripteroides larvae and antibiotic ampicillin largely suppressed microbe populations a.ammonium concentrations dnh4 rose quickly in prey th dip set-ups and fell only after day 8 when large proportions of both e. schuitemakeri and tripteroides larvae had transi- tioned into metabolically inactive pupal stages b.a0.40.30.2b543c 3 0.250.200.150.100246day810 122100246day0.100.050810 120246day810 12figure 1. changes in fluid chemistry in digestion experiment set-ups over time day a turbidity dod600 a proxy for microbe concentration b ammonium concentration dnh4 and c soluble protein da595.

gracilis showing that fluid protein levels were even higher in the presence of dipteran larvae than in their absence.we also found evidence for niche segregation between culicid and phorid larvae.

2017 dipteran larvae and microbes facilitate nutrient sequestration in the nepenthes gracilis pitcher plant host.

however suggested that the predatory ant- mutualist camponotus schmitzi suppresses populations of dipteran larvae which would otherwise deprive n. bicalcarata pitchers of a significant proportion of prey nitrogen.

prey dipteran larvae and 3 ml aliquots of filtered pitcher fluids were transferred into each tube according to a. numbers of larvae selected for this experiment represented the 80th and 75th percentiles of culicid and e. schuitemakeri in situ abundances respectively.

these values were chosen so as to test the digestive mutualism hypothesis at a level where it is less likely to hold while still well within the natural range of dipteran larva densities.

it might also appear that dipteran larva-assisted digestion results in the conversion of prey protein into ammonium at the expense of an organic- nitrogen pathway as suggested by karagatzides et al.

scharmann m thornham dg grafe tu federle w. 2013 a novel type of nutritional ant-plant interaction ant partners of carnivorous pitcher plants prevent nutrient export by dipteran pitcherinfauna.

