associations were considered significant if fdr-adjusted p values were 0.25 for both re- gression and correlation analyses.resultsof 103 enrolled participants 90 subjects completed the run-in phase and were randomly assigned and 81 subjects completed the study supplemental figure 1 table 2. the group assignment p  0.72 sex p  0.72 age p  0.23 and preintervention physical activity level p  0.21 body fat percentage p  0.62 adjusted rmr p  0.68 fasting blood glucose p  0.66 and homa-ir p  0.16 of study completers did not differ from those of the 9 participants who withdrew after random assign- ment.

alkylresorcinol homologs are present primarily in the bran fractions of wheat rye barley and triticale and are con- sidered biomarkers of intakes of these whole grains 25 30.anthropometric measurementsanthropometric measurements were obtained during study weeks 2 and 8. height and waist and hip circumferences were measured in duplicate with the use of standard methods 31. seminude body weight and body density were measured in the morning after a 12-h fast with the use of air-displacement plethysmography bod pod gs cosmed 32.blood biochemistriesblood samples were collected via venipuncture after a 12-h fast during study weeks 2 and 8. serum glucose was measured with the use of an enzyme-coupled kinetic assay and serum insulin was measured with the use of a radioimmunoassay mil- lipore and these values were used to calculate the homa-ir 33 and quantitative insulin-sensitivity check index 34. plasma al- kylresorcinol concentrations were measured with the use of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry 25.stool characteristicsparticipants collected all stools produced over 72 h during study weeks 2 and 8 with the use of separate preweighed plasticcontainers for each sample.

15 did not observe increases in stool weight or energy content in a dietary intervention that achieved 105- and 7-gd between-group dif- ferences in whole grain and fiber intakes respectively but the difference in fiber intake in the study may have been too small to detect an effect 49. collectively these observations suggest that the substitution of whole grains for refined grains in the diet in amounts that exceed current dietary recommendations and in- crease fiber intake from the population mean to recommended amounts increases stool output which in turn increases energy loss in the stool.to our knowledge this study is the first to examine the effectsof whole grains compared with refined grains on energy me- tabolism during weight stability.

plasma alkylresorcinols which are biomarkers of whole-grain intake increased in the whole grain-rich diet group wg but not in the refined grain-based diet group rg p-diet-by-time interaction  0.0001. beta 6 se changes dwg compared with drg in the resting meta- bolic rate rmr 43 6 25 kcald p  0.04 stool weight 76 6 12 gd p  0.0001 and stool energy content 57 6 17 kcald p  0.003 but not in stool energy density were higher in the wg.

cova- riates in the model were means of ratings measured during the run-in phase weeks 1 and 2 age bmi sex and the weight change during the 6-wk intervention.pertaining to whole-grain consumption on favorable effects re- lating to the regulation of the energy balance.figure 3 mean 6 sem changes in the glucose auc p  0.10 and insulin auc p  0.54 that were measured during an oral-glucose-tolerance test that was administered before and after the consumption of a refined grain-based diet n  13 or a whole grain-rich diet n  8 for 6 wk a. change scores were compared with the use of an ancova with the pre- intervention value age bmi sex and the weight change during the 6-wk intervention entered as covariates.

however changes in the rmr stool weight stool energy content and glucose-ogttauc were not associated with changes in the relative abundance of any taxa supplemental table 5.discussionthis study tested current dietary recommendations to substitute whole grains for refined grains in the diet and to increase dietaryfigure 2 mean 6 sem combined changes in the rmr and fiber- adjusted stool energy content while consuming a refined grain-based diet or a whole grain-rich diet for 6 wk.

compared between groups the favorable energetic effects of the whole grain-rich diet translated into a 92-kcald 95 ci 28- 156-kcald higher net daily energy loss compared with that of the refined grain-based diet n  76 p  0.005 figure 2. this difference increased to 108 kcald 95 ci 34 182 kcaldn  61 p  0.005 in the secondary analysis that excluded participants who did not adhere to the diet.glycemiaa total of 41 and 24 study completers opted to participate in the cgm and ogtt measurements respectively see supplemental results for comparison with other study completers.

changes in stool total short-chain fatty acid concentrations were significantly correlated with changes in stool weight r  0.29 p  0.01 but not in stool energy density r  20.01 p  0.96. in the secondary analysis the exclusion of participants who did not adhere to the diet resulted in a slight increase in between- group differences in changes in stool weight and energy content supplemental table 2.rmrone volunteer in each group did not complete the post- intervention rmr measurement and one individual within the rg was excluded from rmr analyses because of suspected noncompliance with premeasurement instructions in addition to being an outlier.

ad- ditional study limitations are as follows ogtt and cgm measurements were conducted in a self-selected subset of the full cohort which resulted in these analyses being underpow- ered nutrient databases were used to determine the energy contents and compositions of study diets and a mean value was used for the combustible energy of fiber to correct stool energy values.in conclusion to our knowledge these findings provide newevidence of energetic benefits and improved oral glucose toler- ance when whole grains replace refined grains in the diet.

between-group differences in total stool energy content remained significant when values were recalculated to account for the esti- mated nonmetabolizable energy contribution of dietary fiber table 4 44. both changes in stool weight r  0.48 p  0.0001 and changes in the stool energy content r  0.37 p  0.001 were correlated with changes in plasma alkylresorcinol concentrations.

oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production were measured over 30 min and the last 20 min of data were used to calculate the rmr with the use of weir's equation 35. the residual method was used to adjust the measured rmr for sex age fat- free mass and fat mass 36. the calorimeter was calibrated with the use of test gases of known concentrations before each testing day and alcohol burn tests were conducted periodically to ensure that the accuracy of the calorimeter was maintained within 61. expired air was collected immediately before and after rmr measurements for breath hydrogen and methane measurements with the use of stationary gas chromatography supplemental methods.gut-microbiota compositionstool samples for gut-microbiota composition were delivered to the laboratory on ice within 24 h of production and frozen in al- iquots during study weeks 2 and 8. the full processing methods have been described elsewhere 29. briefly dna was extracted from stool samples with the use of the qiaamp dna stool mini kit qiagen with slight modifications from the manufacturer's rec- ommendations 29. amplicons of the v4 region of the bacterialtable 1actual dietary intakes during a 2-wk run-in diet and 6-wk refined grain-based or whole grain-rich intervention diets1refined grain n  40whole grain n  411 all values are means 6 sds.

total short-chain fatty acid concentrations decreased in the rg compared with in the wg p-time-by-diet interaction  0.05 which was attributable to a decrease in stool propionate in both groups p  0.001 and a decrease in stool acetate in the rg but not in the wg p-time-by-diet interaction  0.02.adherence weight change and body compositionplasma alkylresorcinol concentrations increased in the wg but did not change in the rg p-time-by-diet interaction  0.0001 figure 1. by design body weight was maintained p-main effect of time  0.13 and did not differ between groupsp-time-by-diet interaction  0.27 table 3. the number of participants who required an increase rg n  10 wg n  10 or decrease rg n  8 wg n  11 in prescribed energy intake did not differ between groups x2  0.56 p  0.76. changes in anthropometric measures supplemental table 2 table 3 and in total physical activity levels p  0.37 did not differ between groups in the primary and secondary analyses.stool characteristicsone participant in each group was noncompliant with one or more of the 72-h stool collections and both subjects were excluded from analyses of stool characteristics.

the weight-maintaining whole grain-rich diet and weight- maintaining refined grain-based diet were designed to differ in whole-grain and fiber contents but to be otherwise similar in energy and macronutrient compositions types of provided10 abbreviations used cgm continuous glucose monitoring fdr false- discovery rate glucose-ogttauc auc of the serum glucose response ogtt oral-glucose-tolerance test rg refined grain-based diet group rmr resting metabolic rate wg whole grain-rich diet group.foods and meal structures table 1 supplemental table 1. the diets differed primarily in whether grains were derived from whole-grain or refined-grain sources which was achieved by replacing refined grain-containing foods with similar whole grain- containing foods.

during the subsequent 6 wk participants were provided with either a weight-maintaining whole grain-rich diet whole grain-rich diet group wg10 or a weight-maintaining refined grain-based diet weight-maintaining refined grain-based diet group rg that did not contain any whole grains.study diets and dietary adherencethe run-in diet contained no whole grains and was designed to be consistent with the mean dietary intakes of us adults.

changes in the rmr were greater in the wg than in the rg table 3. this difference was not statistically significant when the participant who was noncompliant with premeasurement instructions was included or after the exclusiontable 2preintervention characteristics of study completers11 there were no significant differences x2 test or independent samples t test.2 mean 6 sd all such values.3 paee physical activity energy expenditure estimated with the use of the international physical activity questionnaire.4 all values are medians iqrs.figure 1 geometric mean  sem plasma total alkylresorcinol con-centrations before and after the consumption of a refined grain-based diet or a whole grain-rich diet for 6 wk.

