However hydrogen production through syntrophic reactions is not expected and desired in H2 production bioreactors due to the strict metabolic requirements of syntrophic bacteria imply- ing that H2 concentration must remain extremely low.Engineered ecosystems for H2 production far from pure culturesAll the findings discussed above clearly illustrate that even though known efficient HPB are present in the community the H2 production efficiency will also depend on the composition of the whole community including H2 consumers and competi- tors or inhibitors which counteract the HPB activity.

This limitation is partly due to the limited knowledge to date of the microbial ecology involved in hydro- gen production in mixed cultures.Biofermenters used for hydrogen production from mixed cul- tures can be considered as model ecosystems where environ- mental and operating parameters are reliably monitored and controlled and can therefore be useful to elucidate the links between microbial community features and ecosystem services such as organic matter degradation and H2 production.

However its H2 production effi- ciency depends on the species and substrate considered as evidenced for A. fermentans low hydrogen production from glutamate fermentation Rogosa  while the fermen- tation of citrate leads to significant hydrogen production Cook et al.

After exploring the effect of dif- ferent physicochemical pretreatments to maximize the hydro- gen production from sewage sludge substrate Kotay and Das  concluded that pretreatment was essential to reduce the abundance of microbial competitors and to improve the sludge nutrient solubilization but not sufficient to develop a suitable microbial consortium for H2 production without further inocu- lationbioaugmentation of the sludge.An alternative approach for the sustainable production of biohydrogen could be the application of ecobiotechnology.

Thus there is currently no generally accepted selection criterion for the most favorable fermentative hydrogen production route in mixed cultures which is one of the main limitations of the fer- mentative hydrogen production process Kleerebezem and van Loosdrecht .

For example C. acetobutylicum can switch from acidogenesis hydrogen production through the acetatebutyrate pathway to solventogenesis metabolism acetone and butanol production detrimental for H2 pro- duction Lu tke-Eversloh and Bahl .

H2 production by Enterobacter species has even been reported to exceed the clostridial production in some cases as evidenced from waste wheat powder Argun Kargi and Kapdan  and domestic landfill Shin et al.

was the most abundant genus in the class Gammapro- teobacteria in batch fermenters fed with sucrose inoculated with activated sludge and exposed to heavy metals sug- gesting that it stimulated hydrogen production and was ableto resist to a wide range of heavy metal concentrations Cho and Lee .Obviously all Enterobacteriaceae are not equivalent in terms of H2 production efficiency as demonstrated in pure strains isolated from various sources Kanso et al.

The hydrogen production yield of P. polymyxa increased when the substrate shifted from glucose to xylose together with a metabolic shift from alcohol production to acetate accumula- tion Marwoto et al.

Hydrogenase gene sequences of Paeni- bacillus have been detected during hydrogen production in batch system fed with sucrose and inoculated with heat-shocked cat- tle dung compost confirming it was involved in H2 production Huang et al.

