Pulegone is a terpene produced by intact M. aquatica plants to attract individ- uals of C. herbacea in contrast menthofuran is pro- duced by infested plants and has a potent repellent activity on C. herbacea ConclusionsThis study focuses on the multitrophic association among M. aquatica its specific herbivore C. herbacea and the insect gut microbial community.

This hypothesis could extend the possible role of the microorganisms living in the insect in- testinal tract which could be involved in biosynthesis of semiochemicals.In this study we have tested this hypothesis by charac- terizing the cultivable bacterial communities inhabiting the intestinal tract of C. herbacea female and male indi- viduals feeding on M. aquatica and then investigating the possibility that the microbial communities from the two sexes could be associated to specific metabolic pat- terns with respect to the ability to biotransform M. aqua- tica essential oil and release potential semiochemicals.ResultsChemical fingerprint of M. aquatica leaf and C. herbaceafrass volatilesThe discrimination of chemical patterns produced dur- ing the interaction between organisms represents one ofthe major challenges posed by multitrophic interactions -.

These inhibition values were similar to those found with the five gut isolates from females CHF- B4 CHF-B16 CHF-B17 CHF-B26 and CHF-B37 sup- porting their strong antibacterial activity.Ability of gut bacteria to metabolize M. aquaticaessential oilIn order to clarify the possible role of the gut bacter- ial communities from C. herbacea female and maleTable 2 Taxonomic identification of the gut bacterial isolates from females CHF and males CHM of C. herbacea on the basis of the 16S rRNA gene sequencingStrain designationClosest relative strain according to Ez-TaxonPhylumAccession number of theclosest relative strain16S rRNA similarity CHF-B4aSerratia marcescens subsp.

The carvone-rich M. spicata L. the menthol and menthone containing M. x piperita L. and a chemotype of M. longifolia L. particularly rich in piperitenone oxide were used to demonstrate the ability of C. herbacea to metabolize the plant terpenoids and the insect's amazing ability to catabolize biotransform them thereby producing new compounds.

female frass.Characterization of the cultivable bacterial communities of the intestinal tract of C. herbacea female and male individuals feeding on M. aquaticaGut microorganisms from 10 male and 10 female C. her- bacea were isolated in pure culture by means of the standard dilution plating technique on Luria-Bertani LB Yeast Extract Peptone Dextrose YEPD and Nutrient Agar NA solid media.

Although we only focused on cultivable gut bacteria we hypothesize that these new volatile organic compounds possibly derived from plant terpenoids as a consequence of gut bacterial metabolisms could be used as recruit- ment signals produced by both bacterial communities or sex pheromones produced by the bacterial commu- nity from female individuals by insects.

No strain was able to grow when DMSO replaced glucose without essential oil.Growth of gut bacteria in the presence of M. aquaticaessential oilWe also tested the capability of the bacterial isolates to grow both individually and in community by using the M. aquatica essential oil as sole carbon and energy source and biotransform it.

The diameters of the zones of growth inhibition were measured after subtracting the 1 cm-diameter of the agar disk containing the assayed bacterium and the mean - SD was calculated based on three independent experiments.Growth of gut bacteria on chemically defined mediaWe evaluated the ability of gut bacteria to grow in the chemically defined SRM SRM-0 without glucose or SRM-oil media by replacing glucose with DMSO- dissolved M. aquatica essential oil 0.0020.25 vv.

These results were indicative of a po- tential ability of the gut bacteria to modify the terpene profile of M. aquatica essential oil thereby modulating the plant-insect interaction.DiscussionThe interaction between bacteria and insects is becoming a major topic of discussion particularly when bacteria contribute to insect fitness through their involvement in food digestion.

Thus C. herbacea is attracted by pulegone produced by undamaged M. aquatica but is deterred by the metho- furan production by herbivore-infested M. aquatica.

