in addition sourdough fermentation of bran increases the amount of folates and free phenolic acids in breads.bioprocessing of wheat bran with enzymes and yeast fermentation has also been shown to alterthe kinetics of phenolic acids and their microbial metabolites from wheat bran fortified breads via changes in their in vitro bioaccessibility.

bioprocessingof rye bran was performed and the breads were baked as described by nordlund et al.shortly rye bran was first treated with a hydrolytic enzyme mixture of depol 740l biocatalysts dosing 200 nkatg of bran on the basis of xylanase activity and grindamyl a 1000 dosing 75 nkatg of bran on the basis of amylase activity at 65 water content in 40 degc for 4 h mixing at 0.5 1 2 3 and 4 h intervals.

the bioprocessed wheat bran bread showed a higher concentration of 3-phenylpropionic acid considered as the end product of the colonic metabolism of fa than native wheat bran bread at the end of the incubation.in a human study the bread fortified with native wheat bran had a larger variety of microbial metabolites in plasma compared to native branindicating the importance of the cereal matrix in delivering substrates for the conversion by colonic microbiota as also suggested by vitaglione et al.similar observations were also seen in mice fed with the wheat bran aleurone fraction by pekkinen et al.the lack of significant differentiating metabolites between the nb and bb fortified breads in this study may be due to the saturation of fa metabolism as a result of its slow release from the remaining fiber matrix which could result in the increased fa levels in both bread types compared to fecal background at the end of incubation.

rye bran bioprocessing may have an impact on the composition of metabolites with potential effects on human health but more investigation is required to determine the significance of these changes in vivo.associated contents supporting informationthe supporting information is available free of charge on the at doi .identification of the most significant microbial metabo- lites from the gc x gc-tof-ms data of nb bread formed in the in vitro colon model table s1 identification of the most significant microbial metabo- lites from the gc x gc-tof-ms data of bb bread formed in the in vitro colon model table s2 and identification of the phenolic acids and their metabolites from the uplc-qtof-ms data of in vitro fermented nb and bb bread table s3 author informationcorresponding authortelephone 358-40-820-8731. fax 358-207227071. e-mail.orcidville m. koistinen fundingfunding from tekes the finnish funding agency for innovation the academy of finland and the faculty of health sciences university of eastern finland is gratefully acknowledged for the financial support of this study.notesthe authors declare no competing financial interest.acknowledgmentsthe authors thank arja viljamaa eeva manninen sivmatomaa annika majanen niina torttila airi hyrkas and miia reponen for skillful technical assistance.abbreviations useddf dietary fiber ax arabinoxylan bb bioprocessed bran nbnative bran fa ferulic acid sina sinapic acid 4-ca 4- coumaric acid fc fold change id metabolite identification numberreferencesye e. q. chacko s. a. chou e. l. kugizaki m. liu s.greater whole-grain intake is associated with lower risk of type 2 diabetes cardiovascular disease and weight gain.

the importance of the intake of cereal df for health is well-established epidemiological studies have indicated that consumption of whole grain foods shows a consistently decreased risk of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseasesand the df complex has been suggested to be an underlying factor in the risk reduction.- among the phytochemicals of the bran df complex phenolic acids are mostly covalently bound to the bran matrix.hydroxycin- namic acids are the most abundant phenolic acids comprising mostly of ferulic acid fa but also of sinapic acid sina and 4-coumaric acid 4-ca.

subsequently bioprocessing alters the pharmacokinetic profiles of both phenolic acids and their microbial metabolites in healthy volunteers.bioprocessing of rye bran also has an impact on the release of phenolic acids in humans as shown by lappi et al.the main microbial colonic metabolites from native and bioprocessed wheat bran fortified breads in vitro are reported to include 3-3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid dihydrocaffeic acid 3-34-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid and 3-phenylpro- pionic acid.the anaerobic conversion route of isolated 8- o-4-diferulates and 5-5-diferulates in the human in vitro colon model has been proposed earlier by braune et al.

pubs.acs.orgjafceffect of bioprocessing on the in vitro colonic microbial metabolism of phenolic acids from rye bran fortified breadsville m. koistinen emilia nordlundkati katinaismo mattilakaisa poutanen kati hanhinevaand anna-marja aurainstitute of public health and clinical nutrition university of eastern finland post office box 1627 fi-70211 kuopio finlandtechnical research centre of finland vtt post office box 1000 tietotie 2 fi-02044 espoo finlandssdepartment of food and environmental sciences university of helsinki post office box 66 agnes sjobergin katu 2 fi-00014 helsinki finlandsteno diabetes center niels steensens vej 2 dk-2820 gentofte denmark introductioncereal bran is an important source of dietary fiber df.

however the same wheat bread was used as a basis for both bread types and the total phenolic acid content in rye bran is nearly 40 times higher than that in white wheat breadwith similar differences existing for other phytochemical classes as well therefore rye bran can be considered the main contributor to the phytochemical pool investigated in this study.

2007 4 e261.hemery y. m. anson n. m. havenaar r. haenen g. r. noort m. w. rouau x. dry-fractionation of wheat bran increases the bioaccessibility of phenolic acids in breads made from processed bran fractions.

the proposed structural transformations of phenolic acids of rye bran to their microbial metabolites are shown in .effect of bioprocessing on the release and con- version of phenolic acids.

for those phenolic acids that were detected with both methods used in this study the levels detected in the uplc-qtof- ms analysis were mainly consistent with the results from gc xgc-tof-ms data not shown as a result of the semi- quantitative nature of the uplc-qtof-ms data the gc x gc-tof-ms results quantitated with a standard ids 1-19 were prioritized.discussionmetabolic routes of phenolic acids from rye bran.

the results below concentrate on the unambiguously and tentatively identified compounds and their structural relevance in the metabolism of phenolic acids mainly fa derivatives.the changes in the metabolite profiles as analyzed by the non-targeted gc x gc-tof-ms approach are visualized in heat maps as metabolite-specific differences between the bb and nb breads a or between the nb or bb bread and the fecal control panels b and c of  respectively.shows the released phenolic acids and the quantitated or semi-quantitated significant microbial phenolic metabolites from nb and bb fortified breads.

bioprocessing of wheat bran has been used for improvement of the properties of wheat dough and bread containing bran i.e.

investigated the microbial metabolite content focusing on lignans and benzoxazinoids of rye bran soluble extract and its non-extractable residue using an ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time- of-flight-mass spectrometry uplc-qtof-ms metabolo- mics platform and showed that the extract and bran residue differed in their metabolic profiles.applications of mass spectrometry are widely used in metabolomics.

to prepare the wheat bread with native bran nb or bioprocessed bran bb 35 of the wheat flour was replaced with thebran based on dry matter.

