the columns show the average staining intensity relative to actin and is plotted as mean-s.e.m.i-k activity of total lipase i 6 mice amylase j 9 mice and trypsin k 3 mice in orai1flfl black and orai1-- acinar cells red.ahuja et al.page 18time course of exocytosis stimulated by 100 pm cck8 in acini obtained from age- matched orai1flfl and orai1-- mice 10 blue circles 30 red triangles and 112 green squares days after deletion of orai1.chymotrypsin in feces of orai1flfl mice black and orai1-- mice maintained on solidred and liquid diets blue for 10 days after final tamoxifen gavage.ahuja et al.page 19figure 3. inflammatory mediators and inflammatory in orai1flfl and orai1-- mice the pancreasa mpo was measured in extracts prepared from the pancreas of orai1flfl black andorai1-- mice red.b-g serum from orai1flfl black orai1-- mice maintained on solid red and liquid diets blue was used to measure mpo b tnfa c il2 d il4 e il6 f and il12 g. the number of mice is indicated in the column and the p values relative to the level in orai1flfl are listed above the columns.h-k fecal scfas were analyzed in orai1flfl maintained on solid black or liquid dietgreen and orai1-- mice maintained on liquid diet.

by contrast multiple serum inflammatory mediators were elevated in orai1-- mice on sd but not orai1-- mice on pld figures 3b-g. this was out of proportion to the mild pancreatic damage seen in orai1-- mice.deletion of orai1 causes intestinal bacterial overgrowth and systemic infectionthe gastrointestinal inflammation and bacterial infection noted in the pathological analysis led us to measure the intestinal bacterial burden in orai1-- mice.16s rrna sequencing in figure 4a showed increased cecal bacterial load in orai1-- mice on sd.

1b.necropsy of mice with orai1-- in pancreatic acini henceforth referred to as orai1-- mice and their orai1flfl littermates revealed that orai1-- mice on sd were lean with reduced ingesta and had a high prevalence of gastrointestinal inflammation and systemic bacterial infection supplementary table 1. we hypothesized that the orai1-- mice might be dying from gastrointestinal inflammation.

h shows the summary of inflammatory score for the three conditions.i-k bacterial infection of the spleen i liver j and pancreas k.l intestinal permeability of the indicated mice.ahuja et al.page 21figure 5. analysis of intestinal innate immunity in orai1flfl and orai1-- micea-d phloxine btartrazine staining of intestinal sections obtained from orai1flfl a and orai1-- mice maintained on liquid b or solid diet c. d shows the average number of paneth cellsfield analyzed in the indicated number of fields obtained from 3 mice in each line.e-h intestinal sections from 3 orai1flfl 3 orai1-- mice on liquid diet and 4 orai1-- miceon solid diet were stained for lysozyme green and counterstained for dapi blue.

as an additional control orai1-- mice maintained on liquid diet were gavaged with cecal bacteria from orai1flfl mice green.ahuja et al.page 23figure 7. analysis of the microbiome in orai1flfl and orai1-- micepcoa analysis in orai1flfl mice maintained on solid diet black orai1flfl mice maintained on liquid diet green orai1-- mice maintained on solid diet red and orai1-- mice maintained on liquid diet blue.

as controlsahuja et al.page 7survival was intact in orai1-- mice on pld transplanted with cecal material from orai1flfl mice and orai1flfl mice transplanted with cecal material from orai1-- mice on sd.lack of pancreatic antimicrobials disrupts the gut microbiome homeostasisthe results in figure 6 indicate that reduced antibacterial activity indeed caused intestinal bacterial overgrowth and that bacterial outgrowth is the cause of death in orai1-- mice on sd.

tx tamoxifenorai1-- mice maintained on solid sd or liquid ld diets were supplemented with digestive enzymes in the sd red or drinking water purple.consumption of solid food by orai1flfl and orai1-- mice.consumption of liquid food by orai1flfl and orai1-- mice.

shown are the total level of scfas h and the levels of acetate i propionate j and butyrate k.ahuja et al.page 20figure 4. bacterial burden and intestinal inflammation in orai1-- micea cecal bacterial 16s rrna was measured in orai1flfl mice and orai1-- mice maintained on liquid ld or solid diets sd.b-d duodenal b jejunal c and colonic d sections obtained from orai1-- micemaintained on liquid upper images or solid diets lower images were stained for adherent gram negative blue and positive red bacteria.

rescue by pld furtherahuja et al.page 4supports the notion that impaired digestive enzyme secretion is not the cause of orai1-- mouse death.the lack of ingesta and visceral fat suggested that the orai1-- mice do not eat normally so their dietary intake was monitored.

application of tamoxifen by gavage reduced eating by orai1flfl and orai1-- mice figures 1c and 1d for 2-3 days but orai1-- mice on sd continued to consume less food figure 1c.

by contrast orai1-- mice on pld gained weight normally for the first 7 weeks and then showed a significant but modest reduction figure 1f.deletion of orai1 inhibits ca2 signaling protein synthesis and exocytosisrescue of the orai1-- mice by pld allowed us to determine the roles of orai1 in ca2 signaling digestive enzyme synthesis and exocytosis.

notably intestinal permeability was markedly increased in the orai1-- mice figure 4l and the spleen liver and the pancreas were infected with bacteria figure 4i-k demonstrating bacterial translocation from the gut.to investigate the protective mechanism of feeding orai1-- mice pld we measured the levels of fecal short chain free fatty acids scfas.

2013 and is a confounding factor not seen in the other groups.gut innate immunity is intact in orai1-- miceintestinal bacterial outgrowth raised the question of whether intestinal innate immunity is functional in orai1-- mice.

the number of cd3 cells is higher in the intestine of orai1-- mice fed sd figure 5m-p as is the amount of intestinal iga figure 5q-t. bacterial burden figure 4b regiiig and iga levels figure 5 in the intestine of orai1-- mice on pld are significantly lower than that in orai1flfl mice on sd.

together the results in figure 5 show that the intestinal epithelial innate immune response is intact and potently activated in orai1-- mice on sd.a contributor to increased bacterial burden can be slow food transit time in the gi tursi 2001. this was not the case with the orai1-- mice.

