in ad- dition saccharomycopsis fibuligera appeared to ameliorate intestinal disease in a mouse model of ibd 29 and saccharomyces boulardii is often used as a probiotic underscoring an important role for fungi in human health.one limitation of our study is that numerous s. cerevisiae strains from a multitude of environmental industrial and clinical sources are known to exist 50 51. although s. cerevisiae like most yeast species is generally considered nonpathogenic it can cause disease in immunocompromised individuals 52. in the current study we chose to use an environmentally isolated diploid strain rm11 to represent how exogenous yeast acquired or encountered through diet can influence the course of ibd 53. although vaginal s. cerevisiae has been isolated and therefore could be passed vertically to offsprings.

cerevisiae but not r. aurantiaca exacerbates experimental colitisc57bl6 mice were orally gavaged with either s. cerevisiae orr.

to determine whether live s. cerevisiae was required to worsen colitis or whether a host reac- tion to fungal cell wall constituents was the cause we fed either live or heat-killed s. cerevisiae to c57bl6 mice and subsequently induced co- litis with dss.

whereas live s. cerevisiae induced aggravated colitis heat-killed s. cerevisiae failed to elicit heightened disease.

s1 d and e. these data imply that worsened disease in s. cerevisiae-treated mice was not the result of a greater inflammatory response and suggest that exposure to s. cerevisiae but not r. aurantiaca had the potential to exacerbate the course of intestinal disease.the prominent commensal fungus s. cerevisiae diminishes intestinal barrier functionwe next sought to better understand how commensal yeast could have such disparate outcomes during the course of intestinal inflam- mation using an unbiased approach.

2 a and b. many antimicrobial peptides and genes involved in cellular tight junction formation were more highly up-regulated by the presence of r. aurantiaca compared to s. cerevisiae suggesting that the presence of s. cerevisiae supported epithelial barrier integrity less strongly fig.

these data indicate that the presence of s. cerevisiae led to greater in-testinal leakage.to determine whether s. cerevisiae could directly influence perme- ability of the intestinal epithelium we developed an in vitro intestinal permeability assay fig.

1. s. cerevisiae but not r. aurantiaca exacerbates intestinal disease in two mouse models of colitis.a and b c57bl6 specific pathogen-free spf mice were orally gavaged daily for 7 days with 106 of s. cerevisiae n 7 or r. aurantiaca n  7 and control mice were mock-gavaged with phosphate-buffered saline pbs n  6 each day for 1 week.

to determine wheth- er s. cerevisiae can elevate serum uric acid in animals with an intact microbiota during disease we treated mice with s. cerevisiae or r. aurantiaca and subsequently inducedcdss colitis.

collectively these data demonstrate that uric acid production induced by s. cerevisiae can enhance intestinal permeability and increase disease.to demonstrate whether aggravated colitis induced by s. cerevisiae was dependent on the induction of purine metabolism we sought to block this pathway using a clinical inhibitor of xo allopurinol 41.s.

cerevisiae has not been reported to date to be a common vaginal commensal 54 55. therefore it is likely that most of the s. cerevisiae found in the gi tract is acquired initially from the environment making use of an environmentally isolated strain appropriate.

antibodies against the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae are found in some patients with crohn's disease cd suggesting that the mycobiota may contribute to disease severity.

we report that s. cerevisiae exacerbated intestinal disease in a mouse model of colitis and increased gut barrier permeability.

transcriptome analysis of colon tissue from germ-free mice inoculated with s. cerevisiae or another fungus rhodotorula aurantiaca revealed thats.

cerevisiae colonization affected the intestinal barrier and host metabolism.

