this re- sult also might be attributed to the altered composition of bile acids because the uptake of conjugated bile acids is mediated by active transport whereas unconjugated bile acids are absorbed by passive diffusion across the apical brush border membrane 29. farnesoid x receptor fxr is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily and has emerged as a key player in the control of multiple metabolicpathways including bile acid homeostasis 30. we there- fore investigated to determine whether altered bile acid composition in gf mice influences fxr signaling in the ileum.

taken together the gut microbiota regulate the composition of bile acids and the activity of fxr signaling in the ileum of apoe mice.considering that bile acids undergo the enterohepatic circulation we determined whether the altered bile acid composition in gf apoe mice was associated with mi- crobial regulation of hepatic enzymes in bile acid synthesis.

ca cholic acid cdca chenodeoxy- cholic acid dca deoxycholic acid gca glycocholic acid gcdca glycochenodeoxycholic acid gdca glycodeoxycholic acid hdca hyo- deoxycholic acid lca lithocholic acid udca ursodeoxycholic acid t taurine-conjugated ba bile acid tba total bile acids.absence of gut microbiota had less effect on other apical bile acid transporters ileal bile acid transporter ibat il- eal bile acid binding protein ibabp and basolateral transporters mrp3 ostb supplemental fig.

col- lectively our findings suggest that gf apoe mice have immune-regulatory properties including decreased plasma lps levels and decreased pro-inflammatory molecules in macrophages and plasma which may lead to the reduction of aortic inflammation and atherosclerotic lesion forma- tion in gf apoe mice.discussionanalyses of moma-2-positive macrophages c and cd4 t cellsin this study we demonstrated that gf apoemice ared in the aortic sinus from conv n  6 and gf n  5 apoemice.

collectively activation of the fgf15-fgfr4 axiswas associated with the suppression of bile acid synthesis viainhibition of cyp7a1 in gf apoe mice.the gut microbiota affect cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis in the livernext we determined whether the altered bile acid pro- file in gf mice was associated with microbial regulation of enzymes in the cholesterol homeostasis.

hepatic conversion of cholesterol to bile acid bal- ances fecal excretion and this process is the major route for cholesterol catabolism 21. indeed bile acids partici- pate in the regulation of dietary lipid absorption and act as signaling molecules modulating lipid metabolism and en- ergy homeostasis 22. we hypothesized that modified bileacid component in the presence of gut microbiota would affect the cholesterol metabolism and the development of atherosclerosis.the purpose of this study is to clarify the influence of gut microbiota on the development of atherosclerotic lesion formation systemic immune responses and cholesterol and bile acid homeostasis using conv and gf atherosclero- sis-prone apoe mice fed a chow diet.

to reveal the mechanism of plaque reduction in gf mice we focused on immune responses because several studies in gf animals have demonstrated that microbial populations of the gut are essential for the complete devel- opment of a normal immune response 34 35. plasma lps level was decreased in gf apoe mice compared with conv mice fig.

we confirmed that most of the fecal bile acids in conv mice were unconjugated bile acids whereas all bilen  7 and gf n  7 apoe mice were prepared for plasma total cholesterol a left and triglycerides tg b left.

next we investigated gene expressions involved in bile acid transporters in the distal ileum and found that the expressions of apical bile acid transporter multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 mrp2 and basolateral transporter organ solute transporter osta were upregulated in the distal ileum of gf mice while thetable 1. body weight and plasma lipid profile in conv and gfapoe miceconvgfbody weight g23.4 - 0.823.6 - 0.7hdl-cholesterol mgdl14.3 - 1.214.3 - 1.2ldl-cholesterol mgdl103.4 - 4.7192.0 - 6.2aresults are expressed as mean - sem.

uplc-q-tofms-based analysis of bile acids in the distal ileum and feces from gf and conv apoe mice revealed that the absence of gut microbiota affected the composition of bile acids both in the small intestine and the feces fig.

the distal ileum from gf mice exclusively contained taurocholic acid tca and tauro--muricholic acid tmca whereas that from conv mice included a variety of bile acids other than tca and tmca for example cholic acid and -muricholic acid mca indicating that the gut microbiota would ef- fectively deconjugate taurine-conjugated bile acids in the small intestine.

in the intes- tine bile acids restrict bacterial proliferation and over- growth whereas bacterial enzymes modify primary bile acid through deconjugation dehydrogenation dehydrox- ylation and sulfation reactions to produce secondary bile acids.

taken together these results indicate that gut microbiota could regulate cholesterol and triglyceride homeostasis in apoe mice.the gut microbiota regulate bile acid homeostasis in apoeko miceto assess how the gut microbiota regulate lipid metabo- lism we focused on the bile acids because they are synthe- sized from cholesterol in the liver then excreted into the intestine and converted into secondary bile acids by the gut microbiota.

2c d which was consistent with the previous report 32. in concordance with reduced bile acid synthesis analysis of bile acids revealed that the absence of gut micro- biota reduced the content of total bile acids in the liver fig.

manuscript received 22 september 2016 and in revised form 26 january 2017. published jlr papers in press january 27 2017doi 10.1194jlr.m072165abbreviations apoe apoe-deficient conv conventionally raised cyp7a1 cholesterol 7-hydroxylase fgf15 fibroblast growth factor 15 fgfr4 fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 fxr farnesoid x receptor gf germ-free il interleukin lps lipopolysaccharide mca muricholic acid srebf-2 sterol regulatory element-binding transcrip- tion factor 2 tca taurocholic acid tlr4 toll-like receptor 4 tmca tauro--muricholic acid.1 to whom correspondence should be addressed.e-mail the online version of this article available at httpwww.jlr.org contains a supplement.copyright c 2017 by the american society for biochemistry and molecular biology inc.this article is available online at journal of lipid research volume 58 2017519of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria that comprise about 70 of the total bacteria in the gut 10. lps contains lipid a that is a pathogen-associated molecu- lar pattern which activates pro-inflammatory pathways upon binding to its pattern recognition receptor toll-like receptor 4 tlr4 11. tlr4 expresses on the cell surface of monocytes macrophages and various other cell types 11. high-fat diet increases gut permeability and enhances the penetration of gut microbiota-derived endotoxins into the circulation resulting in metabolic endotoxemia 12. meanwhile germ-free gf mice are resistant to high-fat diet-induced insulin resistance and obesity 13. although associations with gut dysbiosis and various chronic dis- eases have been observed it remains to be clarified whether microbiota-derived lps results in the development of atherosclerosis.over the past years s. l. hazen and colleagues 7 14 have splendidly reported that the gut microbial-derived metabolites trimethylamine and trimethylamine n-oxide are pro-atherogenic in both mice and humans and their levels in circulation are strongly linked to cardiovascular disease risk.

