3 march 2017obstetrics  gynecologyfor the development of infectious and obstetric complications.1-6evidence for protective microbial communities specifically those of the gastrointestinal tract has led to investigations of the role played by the human microbiome in health and well-being.78 such research includes the identification of a biodiverse urinary mi- crobiome that is not isolated by conventional culture.9 similar to the influence of microbial communities in the vagina and gastrointestinal tract alterations to the urinary microbiome may have an effect on the devel- opment of lower urinary tract dysfunction.characterized by suprapubic pain and urinary frequency interstitial cystitis is a debilitating condi- tion with an estimated prevalence of 3-8 million u.s. women.10 the etiology of interstitial cystitis remains elusive treatment is variable and often unsatisfac- tory11 and affected individuals exhibit higher rates of psychiatric diagnoses and other chronic pain con- ditions.1213 although an inflammatory component of interstitial cystitis has been suggested little is known regarding the possible role played by the urinary mi- crobiome and its effect on the immune response.1415 our primary outcome was to investigate measur- able differences in the urinary microbiota and cyto- kine levels that exist among women with interstitial cystitis compared with healthy women.

l acidophilus was associated with less severe scores on the interstitial cystitis symptoms index 1 median range 0-17 interquartile range 5 compared with 10 median range 0-14 interquartile range 11 p5.005 and the genitourinary pain index 0 median range 0-42 interquartile range 22 compared with 22.5 median range 0-40 interquartile range 28 p5.03.

participants with interstitial cystitis demonstrated higher levels of macrophage-derived chemokine 13.32 median range 8.93-17.05 interquartile range 15.86 compared with 0 median range 8.93-22.67 interquartile range 10.35 p5.037 and interleukin-4 1.95 median range 1.31-997 interquartile range 11.84 compared with1.17 median range 0.44-3.26 interquartile range 1.51 p5.029.

categorical variables fisher exact test continuous variables wilcoxon rank-sum test.the median number of distinct operational taxo- nomic units found among the urine samples was three range 20 interquartile range 4. fewer distinct operational taxonomic units were found among pa- tients compared with women in the control group 2 interquartile range 1 compared with 3.5 interquartile range 5.25 p5.015.species-level data were available for 14 patients and 18 women in the control group.

original researchurinary microbiome and cytokine levels in women with interstitial cystitismelinda g. abernethy md amy rosenfeld phd james r. white phd margaret g. mueller md christina lewicky-gaupp md and kimberly kenton mdobjective to investigate differences in the urinary microbiome and cytokine levels between women with and without interstitial cystitis and to correlate differ- ences with scores on standardized symptom severity scales and depression and anxiety screening tools.methods our cross-sectional study compared women presenting to a pelvic floor clinic and diagnosed with interstitial cystitis over a 6-month period with age- matched women in a control group from the same institution.

published by wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.issn 0029-784417with interstitial cystitis contained fewer distinct opera- tional taxonomic units 2 median range 2-7 interquartile range 1 compared with 3.5 median range 2-22 inter- quartile range 5.25 p5.015 and was less likely to con- tain lactobacillus acidophilus 114 7 compared with 718 39 p5.05 compared with women in the control group.

wilcoxon rank-sum test.evaluated the microbiota of catheterized urine samples from 60 women with urgency urinary incontinence compared with healthy women and found that the urgency incontinence group had fewer lactobacillus sequences compared with women in a control group.

this is substantiated by a recent analysis among women with urgency urinary incontinence in which increased symptom severity was associated with less microbial diversity.22our finding of relative increases in two proinflam- matory cytokines among symptomatic women corre- lates with other studies supporting the role of urinary cytokines in syndrome development.1415 although these studies did not find an association with macrophage-derived chemokine or il-4 the number of specific cytokines evaluated in each study was small seven and three respectively and cytokine levels were not correlated with symptom severity.

our findings suggest the possibility of a pro- tective role played by a more diverse lactobacillus- dominated urinary microbiome because the urine of women with interstitial cystitis was found to have fewer distinct operational taxonomic units and was less likely to contain lactobacillus species specifically l acidophilus than that of healthy women.

specific to bladder pain syndromes a norwegian study compared sequences of clean catch urine samples from eight women with interstitial cystitis to healthy women.23 although their analysis noted a relative increase in lactobacilli in the urine of women with interstitial cystitis our study used straight catheterized specimens which better reflect the urinary microbiome than voided specimens.9 it is plausible that their collec- tion technique affected the analyzed microbial compo- sition.

nonparametric analyses were used for all comparisons.results participants with interstitial cystitis reported more disability bothersome urinary symptoms genito- urinary pain and sexual dysfunction and scored higher on depression and anxiety screens compared with women in the control group.

there was no association between the presence of lactobacil- lus genera and cytokine levels table 5.discussionthis investigation of the urinary microbiome demon- strated differences in the urinary microbiome of women with and without a clinical diagnosis of interstitial cystitis.

the female urinary microbiome a comparison of women with and without urgency urinary incontinence.

specif- ically lactobacillus acidophilus was observed in 1 of 14 7 patients compared with 7 of 18 39 control samples p5.05 odds ratio or 0.12. an additional lactobacillus assignment operational taxonomic unit not distinguished to the species level was found in 0 of 14 patients and 6 of 18 33 of women in the control group p5.023 or 0.07. participants with evidence of l acidophilus in their urine scored lower on the interstitial cystitis symptoms index 1.3 interquartile range 1.25 compared with those without 7 inter- quartile range 12.25 p5.01.

women in a control group were recruited from the same institution among women without genitouri- nary or pelvic floor complaints age-matched to within 3 years and met all exclusion criteria.after obtaining consent demographic informa- tion was collected and participants were administered validated questionnaires.

