indeed in patients with ibd in whom the disease is quiescent referring to no or only low-grade inflammation ibs-like symptoms are present in over 30 irrespective of whether the underlying diagnosis is crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis.1 in patients with ibd concurrent ibs confers a significantly worse quality of life23 so interven- tion is warranted.

in a large cohort of caucasian patients having breath hydrogen tests after lactose 50 g lactose malabsorption was found in over 40 of patients with crohn's disease n  92 or ulcerative colitis n  56 com- pared with half that proportion in healthy controls n  83 and in those with functional gastrointestinal disorders n  201.13 fructose malabsorption after a dose of 35 g was significantly more common in patients with crohn's disease 61 compared with the comparator populations 33-44. this was not related to rapid small intestinal transit or intestinal resection.

symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome in patients with inflammatory bowel disease examining the role of sub-clinical inflammation and the impact on clinical assessment of disease activity.

doi10.1111jgh.13695review article use of the low-fodmap diet in inflammatory bowel diseasepeter r gibsondepartment of gastroenterology alfred hospital and monash university melbourne victoria australiakey wordscrohn's disease ulcerative colitis dietary management nutritional adequacy microbiota gluten functional gastrointestinal symptoms.accepted for publication 25 november 2016.correspondenceprofessor peter gibson department of gastroenterology alfred hospital 99 commercial road melbourne vic.

he has published an educationalrecipe book on diet.abstractirritable bowel syndrome ibs-like symptoms are not uncommon in patients with quies- cent inflammatory bowel disease ibd.

the low-fodmap diet on the other hand has efficacy similar to that seen in patients with ibs in three unblinded or observational studies of ibd cohorts who had well-controlled inflammatory disease and in one small randomized cross-over study.

fodmap intake by patients with ibd is not elevated and in one study fructan intakes were lower in patients with crohn's disease than in controls.

the effects of fodmaps on the gut microbiota of patients with crohn's disease mimic that in ibs with a balance between prebiosis from the addition of fodmaps and loss of prebiosis from their reduction.

the symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease ibd do share simi- larities with those of irritable bowel syndrome ibs or other functional gastrointestinal disorders.

many studies have looked more closely at this patient group to determine what proportion of patients has in- flammatory activity and what proportion is in actual remission using endoscopic appearance or fecal calprotectin.4-6 the clinical problem however is defining the cut-off between active disease inducing the symptoms and remission with symptoms that are functional because therapeutic approaches are quite different.

utilizing the cnaq a food frequency questionnaire validated to assess fodmap intake10 james showed wide variations in intake of all fodmaps with no differences across ulcerative colitis n  64 crohn's disease n  57 and healthy controls n  72.11 there were no differences if a quartile analysis was performed for fodmaps or for dietary fiber.

no difference was seen according to the degree of disease activity.

a case- control study from king's college london identified a signi- ficantly lower mean fructan intake in patients with crohn's disease and lower intake in those with active versus quiescent40journal of gastroenterology and hepatology 2017 32 suppl.

thus there is greater exposure of the distal small bowel and proximal colon to fructose in crohn's disease and to lactose in ibd in general with greater potential for inducing symptoms from their osmotic and fermentative effects.

in a retrospective telephone survey of 72 patients with ibd 52 crohn's disease 20 ulcerative colitis and functional gut symptoms who received low-fodmap dietary advice at least 3 months prior from a specialized gastroenterology dietitian14 56 had clinically significant improvement overall ab- dominal symptoms abdominal pain bloating wind and diarrhea improved in all ibd patients p  0.02. more recently prince et al.

