The same experiment was repeated at least three times and representative results from three independent experiments were shown in this study.Hematoxylin and eosin HE staining for colon tissue and histopathological evaluationFor histopathological observation the fixed colon tissues were routinely processed embedded in paraffin sectioned into 6-mm thick segments Thermo Fisher Scientific Waltham MA USA stained with HE and examined by light microscopy BX41 Olympus Tokyo Japan.

The terminal ileum and the inflamed parts of colon mucosa show increased levels of T cells and IL-6 10-11.

The supernatant was collected and subjected to MPO activity measurement using a mouse MPO assay ELISA kit Hycult Biotech Uden Netherlands.The degree of lipid peroxidation was determined by measuring the level of malondialdehyde MDA formed within serum and colon tissue through thiobarbituric acid reactive substances TBARS assay 30.

The colon tissue was then homogenized with a pellet pestle and the supernatant collected after centrifugation at 1 600 x g and 4 C for 10 min.

The separation of cells from the colon LP was performed as reported previously 31.

The prepared cells were stimulated for 4 h with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate 100 ngmL-1 and ionomycin 1 mgmL-1 and the culture supernatant was subjected to cytokine analysis.In order to measure the mRNA levels of the genes involved in the inflammatory response total RNA was extracted from 20 mg of colon tissues using the RNeasy Mini kit Qiagen Hilden Germany according to the manufacturer's instructions.

The inhibitory effect on the level of TBARS shown in the serum of GS  PB 300 mgkg-1 body weight mice was also shown in the colon tissues from the same group of mice Fig.

The expression levels of genes involved in inflammation were significantly higher in the colon tissues from colitis-induced control mice in comparison to those from the normal untreated mice.

In order to measure the level of lipid peroxidation in colon tissues 250 mL of RIPA buffer Thermo Fisher Scientific containing proteinase inhibitor cocktail Roche Life Science was injected into 25 mg of colon tissue.

P  0.05 and P  0.001 indicate a significant differenceOral administration of probiotic-fermented red ginseng exerts inhibitory effects on the expression of genes involved in inflammation in colon tissuesWe determined the expression levels of the genes involved in the inflammatory response such as COX-2 iNOS IL-6 IFN-g and TNF-a from colon tissues Fig.

