tight- junction proteins including zonulins occludins and claudins bind epithelial cells while allowing transient movement of water electrolytes and some macromolecules between cells 46. recent data indicate lamina propria dendritic cells extend dendrites between epithelial cell tight junctions to the lumen for antigen sampling 53. around 90 of intestinal cells are enterocytes with the remaining 10 comprising specialized endocrine cells called enteroendocrine cells mucus-secreting goblet cells and the specialized microfold cells m cells that cover the peyer's patch 60. following pn epithelial perme- ability increases significantly 39 106 and the expression of tight-junctions is decreased.

the extensive gi neurological networks include the autonomic system and enteric nervous system ens 74 where the autonomic system sympathetic and parasympathetic fibers communicate with the spinal cord and central nervous system cns through the dorsal root ganglia.the ens however is autonomous from the cns and contains108 sensory motor and interneurons that release acetylcho- line and neuropeptides including gastrin-releasing peptide grp 74. in response to ingested nutrients and bulk grp normally stimulates enteroendocrine cell eec hormone cas- cades that orchestrate intestinal motility digestive enzyme production bile and bicarbonate release splanchnic bed blood flow and electrolyte section which collectively influence the microbial community 16.ens fibers are found in close approximation with epithelial cells and immune cells providing the ens with the ability to innervate up to 70 or 80 of the total active immune cells in the body 98. together these cells defend an enormous interface approaching 400 m2 in humans between the host and external gut environment.

changed in mucosal thickness and total dna content following pn remains minor around -10. atrophy occurs as a function of decreased galt cellularity and vascular perfusion which are related since naive lympho- cytes normally circulate systemically and interact with ligands as they enter the splanchnic vasculature 38.in mice the total number of peyer's patch lymphocytes decreases significantly within 24-48 h after starting pn reach- ing a nadir of 50 -75 reductions by 3 days compared with control animals 55. specialized epithelial cells m cells cover the luminal surface of peyer's patches and sample luminal antigen for dendritic cells and naive cxl3 t and b lymphocytes within the germinal centers 60. naive cells express high levels of the integrin l-selectin and moderate levels of the integrin cx4l37.

spe- cifically the ratio of cd4 to cd8 as well as the relative percent of memory cells activated cells and naive cells within both the t and b lymphocyte populations remain stable in the peyer's patch 36.madcam-1 expression on the peyer's patch high endothe- lial venules is regulated by activation of at least two pathways including lymphotoxin l3 receptor ltl3r and noncanonical nfkb signaling 13. active circulating lymphocytes express lymphotoxin cx and l3 on their surface that stimulates madcam-1 and the th2 cytokine il-4 through ltl3r binding 17. following pn the expression of ltl3r is significantly decreased within the peyer's patch structure as well as the lamina propria compared with enterally fed animals.

during this migration process b lymphocytes progressively mature into iga-producing plasma cells with only 2 of peyer's patch b cell population producing iga but this increases to 50 in the mesenteric lymph nodes mln 75 in the thoracic duct and nearly 100 in the lamina propria 77. within the lamina propria t helper th lymphocyte subpopu- lations include anti-inflammatory th2 proinflammatory th1 th17 and th22 and t regulatory treg cells 59. the th2 cells predominately produce the cytokines il-4 il-5 il-6 il-9 il-10 il-13 and il-25 which support plasma cell iga production and epithelial cell iga transport through the trans- port protein polymeric immunoglobulin receptor pigr ex- pression 37. pigr binds to dimeric iga at the basolateral surface of enterocytes where endocytosis carries the iga-pigr complex to the apical surface.

at the base of the small intestinal crypts lgr5 stem cells rapidly divide and proliferate feeding cells upward toward the villus tips that result in epithelial replacement every 3-5 days 2. exceptions are small bowel paneth cells that remain at the crypt base and live between 20 and 30 days.

similar to paneth cells goblet cell products are also under the regulation of th2 cytokines including il-4 il-13 and il-25 72. providing the cytokine il-25 during pn signifi- cantly enhances the total number of goblet cells elevates tissueil-4 and il-13 and increases tissue and luminal muc2 levels compared with either controls or pn alone 29.functionally these changes hallmarked by decreased th2 and elevated th1 cytokines have implications for pathogen susceptibility.

scfas downregulate inflammatory responses by monocytes and induce differentia- tion of treg and il-10-producing t cells 96. in human plasma cells scfas have been shown to enhance igg and iga production in vitro 42. furthermore scfas stimulate goblet cell mucin gene expression and improve barrier function 27 103.polyamines.

pn impacts the gut-associated lymphoid tissue functions especially adaptive immune cells changes the intestinal epithe- lium and chemical secretions and significantly alters the intestinal microbiome.

this review closes by describing recent advances in using enteric nervous system neuropeptides or microbially derived products during pn which may improve gi parameters by maintaining immunity and physiology.parenteral nutrition enteral nutrition gastrointestinal immunity galt siga paneth cells microbiome mucosal immunityparenteral nutrition pn provides essential caloric and mi- cronutrient support intravenously in individuals with contrain- dications to enteral feeding following trauma elective surgery or the need for bowel rest due to inflammatory conditions.

beneath the epithelial surface a stag- gering number of adaptive and innate immune cells reside in the gi termed the gut-associated lymphoid tissues galt.

approximately 70 of the total active immune cells in the body normally participate in this compartment 98. a primary galt function is luminal antigen sampling and release of siga on mucosal surfaces including the gi but also the respiratory mammary gland urogenital tract salivary glands and tear ducts.

through antigen-specific and nonspecific bind- ing siga protects mucosal surfaces by pathogen opsonization and exclusion 61. siga also mediates immune tolerance when antigens bound by siga are phagocytized by antigen-present- ing cells leading to dampened inflammatory immune re- sponses and treg induction 22. pn induces gut atrophy characterized by decreased organ wet weight and reduced bowel circumference.

furthermore refeeding enterally after pn reciprocally restores normal peyer's patch cellularity within 48 h showing these changes are sensitive and reversible 33.after leaving the peyer's patch cells migrate through themesenteric lymph nodes exit the thoracic duct and home back to mucosal effector sites.

il-17 cytokine production by th17 cells also supports iga functions while an increase in the th1 cytokines il-2 ifn--y and tnfcx de- creases the production and release of iga at mucosal surfaces through pigr expression inhibition 9. the more recently discovered th22 lymphocytes maintain epithelial defense by stimulating antimicrobial production and release.

