3. anxiety-like behavior in mouse recipients of fecal microbiota from ibs-d patients or healthy controls.a anxiety-like behavior was assessed by the step-down test in mice colonized with fecal microbiota from healthy controls healthy n  53 ibs-d patients with no anxiety ibs n  48 and ibs-d patients with anxiety ibs  a n  40. each mouse was placed in the center of an elevated platform and latency to step down from the pedestal was measured.

we elected to focus on the microbiota from patients with ibs-d not only because of re- ported changes in the microbiota but also because this subgroup of patients exhibits increased intestinal permeability 30 that may pre- dispose them to immune activation a putative mechanism of gut dysfunction in at least a subset of ibs patients 31 32.resultsselection of ibs-d patient donors with and without anxiety for fecal microbiota transplantation to germ-freerecipient micestool samples were obtained from five healthy control individuals two males and three females mean age 42 years and eight patients with ibs-d three males and five females mean age 40 years.

this increase may contribute to water movement across the intestinal epithelium and the faster gastrointestinal transit ob- served in mice with ibs-d patient fecal microbiota.fecal microbiota from ibs-d patients with moderate anxiety induces anxiety-like behavior in recipient micepsychiatric comorbidities such as anxiety and depression affect 50 to 90 of patients with all subtypes of ibs 35 including ibs-d 20. we segregated ibs-d donors into those with anxiety had-a score 11 to 14 and those without anxiety had-a score 5 to 7. behavior of colonized mice was evaluated using step-down and light preference tests.

there was more intra- group variation in gastrointestinal transit among mice with ibs-d microbiota compared to mice with microbiota from healthy controls.the fecal microbiota of ibs-d patients alters intestinal barrier function in recipient mice altered intestinal barrier function with associated low-grade inflamma- tion has been postulated as an early pathophysiological event in ibs 34. we studied intestinal permeability in vitro in a random subset of mice including two groups with microbiota from healthy controls h1 and h5 and two groups with microbiota from ibs-d patients p1 and p6 using the ussing chamber technique.

b left gastrointestinal transit in mice colonized with fecal microbiota from ibs-d patients n  88 or healthy controls n  53. right gastrointestinal transit in indi- vidual groups of mice colonized with fecal mi- crobiota from healthy controls h1 to h5 or ibs-d patients p1 to p8.

phosphatidylserine administration has been reported to improve endocrine and psycho- logical responses to mental stress 63 and ameliorate anxiety in pa- tients with alzheimer's disease 64 and has been shown to have antidepressive effects in rats 65 and patients 66. also acetyl- l-carnitine has multiple neurobiological properties including reduc- tion of oxidative stress regulation of brain energy and phospholipid metabolism as well as modulation of neurotrophins and neurotrans- mitters 67 68. finally we identified several metabolites differentially produced among mice colonized with ibs-d patient microbiota ver- sus control fecal microbiota such as palmitic acid that has been shown to affect the central control of insulin and leptin signaling in rats 69 and glycerophosphocholine which is a parasympatho- mimetic acetylcholine precursor with potential for the treatment of alzheimer's disease and dementia 70 71.overall our data suggest that fecal microbiota from ibs-d patients may induce gut and brain dysfunction in recipient mice through multiple mechanisms including immune and metabolic pathways.

p  0.05 versus healthy pooled data mann-whitney u test.serum metabolomic profiles are different in mice colonized with ibs-d patient fecal microbiota compared to a healthycontrol microbiotasera from 22 mice colonized with fecal microbiota from three healthy donors h1 to h3 and 30 mice colonized with fecal microbiota from five ibs-d patient donors p1 to p5 were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry using two orthogonal columns in tandem.

s1b.the fecal microbiota of ibs-d patients accelerates gastrointestinal transit in recipient micediarrhea was the dominant gastrointestinal symptom in the ibs-d patients included in this study.

b anxiety-like behavior was assessed by the light preference test in mice colonized with fecal micro- biota from healthy controls n  53 ibs-d patients with no anxiety n  48 and ibs-d patients with anxiety n  40. each mouse was placed in the center of an illuminated box connected to a smaller dark box and behavior was recorded for 10 min.

a cd3 t lymphocyte numbers were assessed by immunohistochemistry in the colon of mice colonized with fecal microbiota from healthy controls ibs-d patients with no anxiety and ibs-d patients with anxiety.

b b-defensin 3 was assessed by qpcr in the colon of mice colonized with fecal microbiota from healthy controls ibs-d patients with no anxiety and ibs-d patients with anxiety.

we chose ibs-d patients be- cause this subgroup is more closely associated with compositional changes in the microbiota 42 as well as predict- able changes in intestinal transit times increased intestinal permeability 43 and evidence of immune activation 32. mice colonized with fecal microbiota from ibs-d patients but not from healthy controls exhibited changes in each of these characteristics as well as in behavior.

post hoc analysis p values are shown on individual graphs.depression scores as well as overall gastrointestinal symptoms and quality of life in patients with ibs 46.the pathophysiology of ibs-d includes rapid intestinal transit and increased luminal fluid secretion 47 and these changes were induced in recipient mice after transplantation of fecal microbiota from ibs-d patients but not from healthy controls.

anxiety and depression are common in patients with ibs and have been associated with immune activation 32.low-grade gut inflammation commonly documented in ibs patients by an increase in cd3 t lymphocytes is a putative cause of altered gut physiology 32. this is supported by a previous study in which t cell activation in mice induced by anti-cd3 antibodies resulted in rapid intestinal transit and increased epithelial ion transport 48. we found differences in the numbers of cd3 t cells between groups of micecolonized with ibs-d patient fecal microbiota from different donors reflecting the heterogeneity observed in ibs patients.

although microbiota profiles from ibs-d patients and healthy controls were taxonomically similar and often overlapped as shown previously 24 in-depth statistical analysis revealed that lachnospiraceae and bacteroidaceae families were associated with ibs-d whereas desulfovibrionaceae and rike- nellaceae families were associated with healthy controls in agreement with earlier studies 23 24 58 59. although lachnospiraceae family was associated with both gut and brain dysfunction in mice gam- maproteobacteria families shewanellaceae and halomonadaceae and verrucomicrobiae akkermansia were linked to anxiety-like behavior in mice table 1. moreover the genus blautia lachnospir- aceae was associated with both brain and gut dysfunction in humans and mice table 1.although there were relatively minor differences in the microbial composition between mice colonized with the ibs-d microbiota compared to a healthy control microbiota their metabolomic pro- files differed fig.

