international journal of antimicrobial agents 51 2018 393-398prediction of recurrent clostridium difficile infection at the bedside the geih-cdi scorejavier cobo  esperanza merino  cristina martinez  alberto cozar-llisto  evelyn shaw  teresa marrodan  esther calbo  elena bereciartua  luis a. sanchez-munoz  miguel salavert m. teresa perez-rodriguez  dacil garcia-rosado  j. maria bravo-ferrer  juan galvez-acebal  cesar henriquez-camacho  jordi cuquet  berta pino-calm  luis torres  antonio sanchez-porto borja m. fernandez-felix for the nosocomial infection study groupa servicio de enfermedades infecciosas hospital universitario ramon y cajal irycis madrid spainb unidad de enfermedades infecciosas hospital general universitario de alicante isabial-fisabio alicante spainc servicio de enfermedades infecciosas hospital universitario ramon y cajal madrid spaind unidad de enfermedades infecciosas servicio de medicina interna hospital universitario puerta de hierro-majadahonda madrid spaine servicio de enfermedades infecciosas hospital universitario de bellvitge idibell barcelona spainf servicio de microbiologia clinica hospital de leon leon spaing servicio de medicina interna unidad de control de la infeccion hospital universitario mutuaterrasssa universitat internacional de catalunya barcelona spainh unidad de enfermedades infecciosas hospital universitario cruces bilbao spaini servicio de medicina interna hospital clinico universitario de valladolid valladolid spainj unidad de enfermedades infecciosas hospital universitario y politecnico la fe valencia spaink unidad de patologia infecciosa servicio de medicina interna complejo hospitalario universitario de vigo vigo spainl seccion de infecciones servicio de medicina interna hospital universitario de canarias vigo tenerife spainm unidad de enfermedades infecciosas hospital juan canalejo la coruna spainn instituto de biomedicina de sevilla ibishospital universitario virgen macarenaunidad de enfermedades infecciosascsicuniversidad de sevilla sevilla spaino servicio de medicina interna hospital universitario fundacion alcorcon madrid spainp proceso de infecciones servicio de medicina interna hospital general de granollers barcelona spainq servicio de microbiologia hospital nuestra senora de candelaria sta cruz de tenerife spainr servicio de microbiologia hospital san jorge de huesca huesca spains unidad de enfermedades infecciosas y microbiologia hospital del sas de la linea de la concepcion cadiz spaint unidad de bioestadistica clinica hospital universitario ramon y cajal madrid spainu irycis ciber epidemiologia y salud publica ciberespa r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c t article historyreceived 22 may 2017accepted 12 september 2017 editor j.-c. lagierkeywords clostridium difficile recurrenceclinical prediction toolrecurrence of clostridium difficile infection cdi has major consequences for both patients and the health system.

a com- posite score based on 3 ranges makes it possible to select a low- risk group 0-1 points 29.9 of patients risk of recurrence 8.8 an intermediate-risk group 2-3 points 46.4 of patients risk of recurrence 22.3 and a high-risk group 4 points 23.9 of cases risk of recurrence 52.8. the accuracy of the model applied to both cohorts was 0.76.discussionour study confirms that one-quarter of patients diagnosed with cdi and treated in a hospital experience a subsequent episode during the 2 months following completion of treatment.

in contrast prediction of recurrence would help physicians to better select candidates for new expensive treatments and fecal microbiota transplantation that have been shown to significantly reduce the frequency of recurrence of cdi .

the ability to predict which patients are at increased risk of recurrent cdi makes it possible to select candidates for treatment with new drugs and therapies including fecal microbiota transplanta- tion that have proven to reduce the incidence of recurrence of cdi.

predictors of recurrence of cdi were investigated using logistic regression in a prospective cohort of 274 patients diagnosed with cdi.

greater accuracy might be obtained by combining this model with specific biomarkers of cdi .in summary prediction of recurrence of cdi is increasingly im- portant because of its potential role in the management of patients and in decisions on therapy .

for example new treatments with monoclonal antibodies against c. difficile toxins are administered during the course of treatment with c. difficile-specific antibiotics .interestingly our predictive tool can identify some patients on first episode of cdi having higher risk of cdi recurrence than some patients on the second episode.our study has a series of limitations.

nevertheless only symptomatic pa- tients were accepted to have cdi or cdi recurrence and this was emphasized to investigators.

the area under the roc curve was 0.72 0.65-0.79. application of the tool makes it possible to select patients at high risk 50 of recurrence and patients at low risk 10 of recurrence.

our objective was to develop a clinical prediction tool the geih-cdi score to determine the risk of recurrence of cdi.

the impact of recurrence of cdi was recently reported it was shown to be asso- ciated with higher costs and increased mortality .

finally prediction tools could be used to improve the design of future clinical trials in this disease.most studies on clinical tools for prediction of recurrence of cdi are methodologically deficient or difficult to apply in clinical prac- tice .

recurrence was also defined as reappearance of symptoms suggestive of cdi that resolved with vancomycin metronidazole or fidaxomicin if a new sample had not been sent to the labora- tory.

in contrast if a sample sent to the laboratory was negative for toxigenic c. difficile despite a response to specific treatment for cdi reappearance of diarrhea was not considered a recurrence.

recurrence of cdi during follow-up was recorded in 70 cases 25.6 63 diagnosed using microbiological techniques and 7 by response to treatment .

