in more detailsynthesis of eewnsthe combined electrolysis step 1 electrosprayionization step 2 of the eewns synthesis process is presented in a. in more detailfor the electrolysis of de-ionized water step 1 500 ml highly purified de-ionized water 18.2 mu cm-1 thermo scientific nanopure underwent electrolysis in a stirred beaker with a tungsten oxide plate as the anode and a stainless-steel plate as the cathode 12.2 3.6 cm a. the electrolysis was powered in a galvanostat mode by an electrical power supply sorensen dcs 600e1.7 ametek programmable power san diego ca with a fixed current of 0.2 a. the electrolysis lasted for 1 h with the beaker immersed in a dry ice bath to prevent heating of the water.

the same experimental setup is used for the production of ewns di water used as the fluid and eewns water produced by electrolysis used as the fluid.physicochemical characterization of electrolysis water and eewnsphysical characterization of the water produced by electrolysis step 1during the electrolysis of water 1 ml samples were collected every 10 min and the conductivity was measured using the zeta- sizer malvern instruments westborough ma.

these ewns have been shown to effectively inactivate a wide range of food related microorganisms on food surfaces on food contact surfaces and in air   .

ean integrated electrolysis e electrospray e ionization antimicrobial platform using engineered water nanostructures ewns for food safety applicationsnachiket vaze   yi jiang   lucas mena  yipei zhang  dhimiter bello stephen s. leonard  anna m. morris  mary eleftheriadou   georgios pyrgiotakis philip demokritou  a center for nanotechnology and nanotoxicology harvard school of public health harvard university boston ma 02115 usab pathology and physiology research branch health effects laboratory division national institute for occupational safety and health nioshmorgantown wv 26505 usac department of life sciences european university cyprus 6 diogenis st. nicosia cyprusa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 18 july 2017 received in revised form 19 september 2017accepted 27 september 2017available online 29 september 2017keywords antimicrobial nanotechnologyengineered water nanostructures food safetyberriesa b s t r a c t engineered water nanostructures ewns synthesized utilizing electrospray and ionization of water have been recently shown to be an effective green antimicrobial platform for surface and air disin- fection where reactive oxygen species ros generated and encapsulated within the particles during synthesis were found to be the main inactivation mechanism.

this enhanced antimicrobial activity further underpins the ewns platform as an effective dry and chemical free approach suitable for a variety of food safety applications and could be ideal for delicate fresh produce that cannot withstand the classical wet disinfection treatments.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionfood borne disease as a result of consuming microbiologically contaminated food is a major public health problem with the annual worldwide toll reaching an alarming 600 million cases and 420000 deaths .

in addition to safety concerns food waste for reasons including mi- crobial spoilage is also reaching epidemic levels with estimates in the usa being in the order of 30e50 of the food produced .

the food industry is challenged to find solutions to a fast-changing food production environment dictated by new consumer preferences for 'green' and organic foods including consumption of more fresh fruits and vegetables  aeur.0956-7135c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.152n.

food control 85 2018 151e160currently there are a number of antimicrobial strategies used by the food industry across the farm to the fork chain.

indeed nanotechnology-based ap- proaches such as antimicrobial food surfaces nano-enabled sen- sors activeintelligent packaging and novel disinfection platforms are finding their way within the agrifoodfeed sector bringing great new opportunities to the food industry   .recently the authors have developed a novel dry organic chemical free nanotechnology-based antimicrobial platform uti- lizing engineered water nanostructures ewns synthesized as an aerosol using a combined electrospray and ionization process.

retrievedfrom .motarjemi y.  kaeurferstein f. 1999. food safety hazard analysis and criticalcontrol point and the increase in foodborne diseases a paradox food control 104 325e333.

comprehensive reviews in food science and food safety 2s1 161e173.

the ewns method on the other hand due to the a few hundred picogram amounts of water being targeted to the surface of interest is a very gentle dry disinfection method that leaves no chemical traces in the exposed product.conclusionthe presented integrated electrolysis - electrospray and ioni- zation method for the synthesis of eewns is suitable for a variety of food safety applications.

the iron sulfate feso4 used for fenton chemistry and the spin trap 55-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-n- oxide dmpo were purchased from sigma-aldrich st. louis mo.samples of the water produced during electrolysis were taken atq ielnsmps x 4elwhere iel amperes is the measured current nsmps1m3 is the31 10 20 40 and 60 min during the electrolysis process.

the water underwent electrolysis for 1 h. aliquots of 1 ml samples were taken during the electrolysis phase at 1 2 5 10 20 40 and 60 min.

after the electrolysis process was completed the remaining water was removed from the electrolysis setup and placed at room tempera- ture.

