the data that we recently report- ed demonstrated the following major results 1 the gf mdr2-- mice demonstrated significantly more severe serum biochemical abnormalities than the ch mice 2 the gf mdr2-- mice exhibited significantly more he- patic fibrosis ductular reaction and ductopenia com- pared to the ch mdr2-- mice 3 the cholangiocyte mi- croenvironment in the gf mdr2-- mouse was charac- terized by increased numbers of neutrophils and macrophages compared to the ch mdr2-- mouse and4 cholangiocyte senescence was increased in the gf mdr2-- mice relative to the ch mice.

indeed several lines of data suggesting the importance of the intestinal microbiota in psc were already pub- lished and addressed as mentioned above.with this in mind we began a series of experiments to directly test the hypothesis that the intestinal microbiome could influence disease progression in an animal model of psc the mdr2-- mouse 7. our approach involved assessing the mdr2-- phenotype in two subgroups of mice that is conventionally housed ch mdr2-- mice and gf mdr2-- mice.

an increasing body of litera- ture has begun to shed light on this 'gut liver axis' in the maintenance of health as well as in the pathogenesis of liver disease 1. in this review i will focus primarily on the relationship of the intestinal microbiome with pri- mary sclerosing cholangitis psc a fibroinflammatory cholangiopathy of unknown etiology with no established pharmacologic therapy 2.discussionthere are several lines of evidence supporting an im- portant role for the microbiome in psc 3-6. first in- flammatory bowel disease a condition itself associated with intestinal dysbiosis occurs in 75 of patients with psc.

while the generally accepted etiopathogenesis paradigm in- vokes unclear host genetic and immunological factors associated with an undefined environmental insult we recently proposed a new conceptual model for the pathogenesis of psc namely the concept of cellular se- nescence a replicative arrested but metabolically active state associated with progression to the senescence-as- sociated secretory phenotype sasp the latter charac- terized by hypersecretion of fibro-inflammatory mole- cules leading to chronic inflammation tissue dysfunc- tion and fibrosis 8. briefly the data supporting the importance of cholangiocyte senescence in the patho- genesis of psc include 1 increased expression of chol- angiocyte p16 mrna a molecular marker of senes- cence and increased expression of cholangiocyte sasp markers in psc livers and 2 similar evidence of chol- angiocyte senescence in the mdr2-- mouse model of psc.

bile acids and the gut liver axisdig dis 201735166-168 doi 10.1159000450906role of the intestinal microbiome in cholestatic liver diseasenicholas f. larussojames h. tabibiansteven p. o'haradivision of gastroenterology and hepatology mayo clinic rochester minn. usakeywordsmicrobiota  liver diseases  senescence  sclerosing cholangitisabstracthepatobiliary health and disease is influenced by multiple factors including genetics epigenetics and the environ- ment.

however exciting insights are continually being made that support both a central role of the microbiome and a need for further interrogation of the microbes or microbe- associated molecules involved in the initiation and progres- sion of select liver diseases.c 2017 s. karger ag baselintroductionharboring roughly 2-5 x 1011 bacteria per gram of fe- ces in humans the intestinal tract embodies an incredibly complex biological ecosystem.

receiving approximately 75 of its blood supply from the intestine via the portal circula- tion the liver is thus continuously exposed to a wide rep- ertoire of molecules be they beneficial or noxious fromthe intestinal microbiome.

what does seem in- creasingly clear is that the intestinal microbiome and the 'gut liver axis' are important in the maintenance of hepa- tobiliary health and in the pathogenesis of hepatobiliary diseases fig.

1. more specifically perturbations in the intestinal microbiome may lead to the initiation of se- lected liver diseases andor impact the features and pro- gression of existing hepatic disease.psc is characterized by a cholestatic biochemical profile and multiple alternating strictures and dilata- tions classically involving the entire biliary tree.

given the fact that we've also demonstrated in anin vitro model of cholangiocyte senescence that the mi- crobial-derived molecule lps can induce cholangio- cyte senescence we speculated that alterations in the intestinal microbiome might be associated with and rel- evant to the development of cholangiocyte senescence.

this work was ac- companied by an editorial that stated 'this article is like- ly to set a flurry of studies to further address the role of microbiota in psc which may eventually lead to novel therapeutic avenues for treating this disease' 9.role of the intestinal microbiome in cholestatic liver diseasedig dis 201735166-168 doi 10.1159000450906167fig.

in con- trast liver injury may be the result of in- creased production of cytodestructive molecules or loss of cytoprotective mole- cules.all of these data are consistent with the hypothesis that the intestinal microbiome and cholangiocyte senescence are both likely important in the pathogenesis of psc.

j immunol 2005 1757447-7456.mueller t beutler c pico ah shibolet o pratt ds pascher a neuhaus p wieden- mann b berg t podolsky dk enhanced in- nate immune responsiveness and intolerance to intestinal endotoxins in human biliary epi- thelial cells contributes to chronic cholangitis.

liver int 2011311574-1588.tabibian jh o'hara sp trussoni ce tietz ps splinter pl mounajjed t hagey lr larusso nf absence of the intestinal micro- biota exacerbates hepatobiliary disease in a murine model of primary sclerosing cholan- gitis.

fifth recent studies in germ-free gf mdr2 defi- cient mice an animal model of psc have suggested a pro- tective influence of the microbiome on disease development 7. finally treatment with select oral anti- biotics may offer therapeutic benefits in select patients with psc.

