The Journal of allergy and clinical immunology 2012 12951204-1208. doi PMIDGoodson JM Groppo D Halem S Carpino E Is obesity an oral bacterial disease J Dent Res 2009 88 6519-523. doi PMIDMager DL Haffajee AD Devlin PM Norris CM Posner MR Goodson JM The salivary microbiota as a diagnostic indicator of oral cancer A descriptive non-randomized study of cancer-free and oral squa- mous cell carcinoma subjects.

RESEARCH ARTICLEThe salivary microbiome is altered in the presence of a high salivary glucose concentrationMax Goodson1 Mor-Li Hartman1 Ping Shi1 Hatice Hasturk1 Tina Yaskell1 Jorel Vargas1 Xiaoqing Song1 Maryann Cugini1 Roula Barake2 Osama Alsmadi2 Sabiha Al-Mutawa3 Jitendra Ariga3 Pramod Soparkar1 Jawad Behbehani4 Kazem Behbehani21 Department of Applied Oral Sciences the Forsyth Research Institute Cambridge Massachusetts United States of America 2 The Dasman Diabetes Institute Kuwait City Kuwait 3 Ministry of Health Kuwait City Kuwait 4 Kuwait University Faculty of Dentistry Kuwait City Kuwait AbstractOPEN ACCESSCitation Goodson JM Hartman M-L Shi P Hasturk H Yaskell T Vargas J et al.

2017 The salivary microbiome is altered in the presence of a high salivary glucose concentration.

The funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.BackgroundType II diabetes T2D has been associated with changes in oral bacterial diversity and fre- quency.

The overall salivary bacterial load in saliva decreased with increasing salivary glucose concentration.

We propose that hyperglycemia due to obesity andor T2D results in HSG and subsequentCompeting interests The authors of this review received no financial support and declare no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the authorship andor publication of this article.Abbreviations ATCC American Type Culture Collection BMI Body Mass Index HSG high salivary glucose LSG low salivary glucose T2Dacidification of the oral environment leading to a generalized perturbation in the oral micro- biome.

The Human Microbiome Project and other related research efforts in both industry and academia including our own - are now striving to under- stand and clarify the variations in microbial communities found in people in conditions of both health and disease .The oral microbiome is one of the most diverse microbial communities in the body with as many as 700 species of bacteria colonizing the hard surfaces of teeth and the soft tissues of the oral mucosa  .

The prevalence of T2D among U.S. children and adolescents in 2009 was 0.461000  a 30 increase since 2001.

The focus of this analysis is saliva samples from 8173 ado- lescents in which salivary glucose concentration bacterial counts and relative bacterial fre- quencies were all measured.

The study was approved by the Dasman Diabetes Institute Ethical Review Committee in Kuwait.

