relative expression of foxp3 isoforms normalized to housekeeping gene 18s expression was measured before and after stimulation in hc n 5 7 and cd n 5 7 patients a. paired analysis was used to determine the differences between the two isoforms' expression within the same group of patients in both culture conditions b. each dot represents the mean among the mrna expressionvalues 6 standard error of the mean s.e.m.. the ratio between the relative expressions of foxp3 isoforms d2fl was calculated individually for each subject in hc and cd cultured with medium alone or stimulated with ptg.

the effect of lactate 1 lgml on foxp3 isoforms expression was evaluated by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr on pbmc from non-coeliac subjects hc n 5 16 and coeliac patients cd n 5 23 after a 48-h stimulation and normalized on 18s a. paired analysis was used to determine differences between the two isoforms' expression within each group of patients in both cultures conditions b. each dot represents the mean among the mrna expression values 6 standard error of the mean s.e.m.. the ratio between the relative expressions of foxp3 isoforms d2fl was calculated individually for each subject in hc and cd cultured with medium alone or stimulated.

s2.effect of butyrate and ifn-g on the expression of foxp3 isoforms in cd41cd251 tanalysis on hc and cd subjects did not show statistically sig-nificant changes in foxp3 isoforms expression between theand cd41cd25-t cellsregtwo culture conditions upon stimulation with lactate both foxp3 isoforms appeared to be expressed more significantly in cd patients compared to hc subjects p  0005 fig.it has been shown that upon activation foxp3 expression is up-regulated in cd41cd25- t cells 37. this confers a transient suppressive function to this subset of cells.

has been shown to characterize the preclinical phase of individuals predisposed genetically to cd 12. the interaction between this microbial-derived metabolite and antigen-presenting cells apc triggers a regulatory phenotype on the cells 3 that in a healthy subject hc will lead to the intestinal homing of forkhead box protein 3 foxp31 cells 4. cd patients however seem to be more responsive to lactate and show an increase in the total pool of foxp31 cells compared to hc as a possible compensatory mechanism to maintain a high level of functional foxp31 fl isoform 5. during the active state of the disease the small intestine of cd patients is characterized by a drop in lactate levels an increased intestinal permeability due to the interaction between gliadin and epithelial cells 6 and high production of butyrate from the microbial flora 7. furthermore expanded intraepithelial lymphocytes iels produce a high amount of proinflammatory cytokines such as interferon ifn-g and interleukin il-17 8. the increased intestinal permeability allows gliadin peptides to translocate to the lamina propria of the small intestine where they are recognized by apc 9. this triggers an adaptive immune response that is t helper type 1 th1th17-driven and characterized by high production of proinflammatory il-17 and ifn-g. in hc subjects the local micro-milieu characterized by this proinflammatory environment and microbiome-derived excess butyrate causes the foxp3 epigenetic switch toward the more functional and therefore more protective fl isoform restoring the equilibrium between foxp3 isoforms 10. conversely in cd patients treg cells are not capable of undergoing this epigenetic modification and persistently over-express foxp3 d2 less functional over fl leading to chronic inflammation and eventually autoimmune enteropathy 11. colour figure can be viewed at acetylation 44-46. based on our data we hypothesize that the balance between foxp3 isoforms in hc subjects after stimulation with ifn-g and butyrate may represent a compensatory mechanism of treg cells in becoming more efficient at responding to mucosal inflammation.

real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr was used to measure the relative expression of both foxp3 isoforms separately a and rorct d among healthy subjects hc n 5 12 active coeliac patients cda n 5 11 and cd patients in remission coeliac patients in remission following a gluten free diet cdgf n 5 6. the ratio between the relative expression of foxp3 d2 and fl d2fl was calculated individually for each subject and compared among the three groups of patients.

paired analysis was used to determine the differences between the two isoforms' expression within the same group of patients in pbmc from healthy controls hc n 5 12 for the ifn-g experiment and n 5 19 for the butyrate experiment and cd n 5 10 for the ifn-g experiment and n 5 20 for the butyrate experiment subjects were cultured for 48 h in medium alone or stimulated with either 100 ngml of ifn-g a or 1 lgml of butyrate b. each dot represents the mean among the mrna expression values 6 standard error of the mean s.e.m.. differences between the relative expression of foxp3 isoforms within each group was determined in hc and cd in both culture conditions.

in pbmc of hc and cd patients without stimuli black bars or stimulated with butyrate and ifn-g white bars b. paired analysis was used to determine further the differences between the two isoforms' expression within the same group of patients c. each dot represents the mean among the mrna expression values 6 s.e.m.

8d.effect of lactate on foxp3 isoforms expression on cd41cd251 and cd41cd25- t cellsto determine if lactate triggers the increased expression of both foxp3 isoforms by targeting treg or t effector cells directly we isolated cd41cd25- t cells and cd41cd251 treg from hc and cd patients and cultured them with or without lactate.

paired analysis was used to determine differences between the two isoforms' expression in both groups of patients and culture conditions unstimulated or stimulated with bi respectively in cd41cd251 treg a and cd41cd25- t cells c. each dot represents the mean among the mrna expression values 6 standard error of the mean s.e.m.. the ratio between the relative expressions of foxp3 isoforms d2fl was calculated individually for each subject in hc and cd cultured with medium alone or stimulated.

in pbmc of hc and cd patients without stimulus black bars or stimulated with ptg white bars c. relative expression of interleukin il6 was measured as a positive control of the efficacy of the pbmc stimulation with ptg in pbmc from hc n 5 6 and cd n 5 6 d. statistical comparisons were made using wilcoxon's test abd the mann-whitney u-test bd and the kruskal-wallis test c. p  005.evaluate more clearly the precise cells subset targeted by ifn-g and butyrate we isolated cd41cd25- t cells and cd41cd251 treg from hc and cd patients supporting information fig.

the same metabolomic profile was not detected in children who did not develop cd 36. in the present study we have shown that upon stimulation with lactate pbmc from cd patients expressed higher levels of both foxp3 isoforms compared to non-coeliac hc sub- jects therefore confirming once again how cells from cd patients respond differently to the same microenviron- ment.

the alternatively spliced isoform foxp3 d2 has been described to be less efficient in down-regulating rorgt expression 17. to evaluate if the elevated intestinal expression of foxp3 d2 that we found in cda patients matched with a higher expression of rorct we performed real time rt-pcr on the mrna extracted from whole biopsies of hc subjects cda and cdgf patients.

correlation between gene expressions wasmeasured by two-tailed spearman's or pearson's correlation analysis depending on the sample distribution.study approvalall protocols were approved by the partners human research committee institutional review board and written informed consent was obtained from all enrolled subjects.resultsaltered expression of foxp3 isoforms in the intestine of active coeliac patientswe measured the expression of total foxp3 in the small intestine of cda patients and hc subjects and also the expression of each foxp3 isoform in hc cda and cdgfpatients by performing a real-time reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr.

real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr was used to measure the relative expression of total foxp3 in healthy subjects hc n 5 18 and active coeliac patients cda n 5 20 a. specific primers were used to measure the relative expression of both foxp3 isoforms separately in hc cda and coeliac patients in remission following a gluten-free diet cdgf n 5 8b.

in small intestinal biopsies of hc white bars cda black bars and cdgf patients grey bars c. paired analysis was used to determine further the differences between the two isoforms' expression within the same group of patients d. each dot represents the mean among the mrna expression values 6 s.e.m.

