Therefore we performed a non-targeted comprehensive metabolomic analysis on blood urine adipose tissue and skeletal muscle tissue in middle-aged men with metabolic syndrome randomized to either resveratrol or placebo treatment for four months.

Resveratrol treatment reduced sulfated androgen precursors in blood adipose tissue and muscle tissue and increased these metabolites in urine.

Consequently metabolomic analysis requires tissue biopsies to allow a detailed examination of changes in the intracellular pathways within this specific tissue.

As the effects of resveratrol in humans are incompletely characterized we used a non-targeted metabolomics approach based on four different matrices plasma urine adipose tissue and skeletal muscle tissue from each study subject.

Venn diagram of significantly hRSV-altered metabolites detected in the four different matrices for metabolite details see Supplementary Table S6.Random forest analysis RF analysis of adipose tissue muscle tissue urine and plasma metabolic profiles resulted in 75 87 82 and 89 accuracy in differentiating the hRSV and placebo groups respectively indicating that the differences in biochemical profiles between the two groups were quite pronounced.

The present paper describes an exhaustive metabolomic profile of blood adipose tissue skeletal muscle tissue and urine from a comprehensive clinical trial of high-dose resveratrol-treated middle-aged males with metabolic syndrome.

In addition we find significantly lower intracellular amounts of sulfated androgen precursors in skeletal muscle tissue as well as adipose tissue.

Also despite the increase in these fatty acids in adipose tissue after resveratrol treatment no clinically relevant improvements in blood pressure or insulin sensitivity were observed in our study population .In the adipose tissue we also detected a significant increase in intracellular glycerol and free fatty acids in the resveratrol-treated subjects.

Before both biopsies were performed the area was anesthetized using 5 to 10 mL lidocaine.Metabolomic AnalysisUrine blood adipose tissue and skeletal muscle tissue samples were shipped to Metabolon Inc.r Durham NC USA on dry ice.

The main finding is that resveratrol lowered sulfated androgen precursors in blood adipose tissue and muscle tissue and concurrently increased the content in urine indicating increased urinary excretion of these sulfated steroids.

