these cytokines are also known to activate the sympathetic nervous system and hpa axis which in turn have direct effects on the brain74.in addition to these 'extrinsic' routes of immune regu- lation of brain function it is also important to realise the importance of brain 'intrinsic' immune regulation.

23 987-992 2014.hillila m. t. siivola m. t.  farkkila m. a. comorbidity and use of health-care services among irritable bowel syndrome sufferers.

to put these concepts into context it is necessary to understand the dynamics of the stress response and factors that modulate it including the immune system but also to consider the immune mechanisms operational in common gastrointestinal diseases including fgids.mucosal immune system ens and stress reciprocal interactions between mucosal immune system ens and stress response.

the study concluded that the gut was probably the driver of psychological morbidity in patients in whom gastrointestinal symptoms predated mood dis- order and the brain was probably the driver of fgids in patients in whom anxiety or depression symptoms manifested before gastrointestinal symptoms.

community health 55 716-720 2001.hauser w. janke k. h. klump b.  hinz a. anxiety and depression in patients with inflammatory bowel disease comparisons with chronic liver disease patients and the general population.

growing evi- dence supports the possibility that both scenarios exist and that different fgid phenotypes could exist with some patients presenting first with mood disorders without gut symptoms and then later developing gut symptoms brain driving gut whereas others first pres- ent with fgids and then emerge with psychological dis- turbance gut driving brain.

the bidirectional trafficking of these signals opens the pos- sibility of some gut diseases being driven by aberrant brain function and conversely disordered gut homeo- stasis being responsible for driving brain pathology and particularly mood disorders in other patients.

cortical effects of anticipationand endogenous modulation of visceral pain assessed by functional brain mri in irritable bowel syndrome patients and healthy controls.

21 389-398 2009.ohman l. isaksson s. lundgren a. simren m.  sjovall h. a controlled study of colonic immuneactivity and b7 blood t lymphocytes in patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

gut 63 1275-1283 2014.carroll i. m. ringel-kulka t. siddle j. p. ringel y. alterations in composition and diversity of the intestinal microbiota in patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.neurogastroenterol.

emphasis will be directed at pathways regulated by normal and aberrant host immune responses to exogenous stimuli including the intestinal microbiota.gastrointestinal disease and the brain gastrointestinal disease is linked to disordered brain function.

the immune system integrates and modulates bidirectional signals between the brain and the nervous system and the gut and consequently mechanistically links alterations in function in both brain and gut.

third circulating immune cells have the potential to traffic to the brain where they can liberate cytokines and other inflammatory mediators in close proximity to relevant brain structures.

37 245-255 2007.kurina l. m. goldacre m. j. yeates d.  gill l. e. depression and anxiety in people with inflammatory bowel disease.

science 345 1254009 2014.zimmerman n. p. vongsa r. a. wendt m. k.  dwinell m. b. chemokines and chemokinereceptors in mucosal homeostasis at the intestinal epithelial barrier in inflammatory bowel disease.

