adv immunol 107 243-74.kau al ahern pp griffin nw goodman al et al.

it is thus possible that the diversity of environ- mental bacteria is correlated to that of gut bacteria.latitude as a co-driver of the human gut microbial diversityin order to test whether in humans part of the observed difference in diversity between industrialized andnon-industrialized countries could be attributed to a confounding effect of latitude we reanalyzed data from nakayama et al.

we also rean- alyzed data from zhang et al.

indeed different predic- tions can be made depending on whether the decrease in diversity is observed solely for the gut or also for other microbiomes.interestingly clemente et al.

however li et al.

concerning the skin microbiome clemente et al.

on the other hand blaser et al.

finally perez perez et al.

44 compared the skin microbiome at three body sites scalp axilla and forearm of us residents from various ethnicities and noticed a significant increase in phylogenetic diversity in latin americans and african-americans as com- pared to asians with european americans having intermediate values suggesting a role for host genetics or cultural differencesbetween such communities.similarly fettweiss et al.

while such an initiative has started for indus- trialized gut microbiomes 50 we believe it would be even more relevant for non-industrialized societies.acknowledgments this work is funded by a public grant from the french national research agency anr-15-ce02-0003 anr-microregal.emma dikongue is a student in the magist'ere de genetique graduate program at universite paris diderot sorbonne paris cite.the authors have declared no conflicts of interest.referencesturnbaugh pj ley re hamady m fraser- liggett cm et al.

nature 449 804-10.chow j lee sm shen y khosravi a et al.

nature474 327-36.qin j li r raes j arumugam m et al.

curr opin gastroenterol 31 69-75.backhed f fraser cm ringel y sanders me et al.

cell host microbe 12 611-22.de filippo c cavalieri d di paola m ramazzotti m et al.

proc natl acad sci usa 107 14691-6.yatsunenko t rey fe manary mj trehan i et al.

