After the intervention period the mice fed with either probiotic referred to as the 'probiotic group' or 'LGG group' or sulindac 'sulindac group' were found to have significantly lower number of intestinal polyps compared with those given only normal diet referred to as the 'control' group Fig.

2014 were found to vary in three distinct ways i increased abundance in LGG group while decreased in control group Coprococcus Alistipes and Anaerostipesii increased in both groups with higher increase in LGG group Roseburia and Blautia iii decreased in both groups but with lower decrease in the LGG groupFigure 5 Taxonomic contribution to Clusters of Orthologous Group COG variations in the control group.

Since the faeces from some individual mouse sam- ples were in less quantity and could not meet the minimal DNA input requirement of sequencing library preparation stool samples from six equal to the size of the smallest group mice randomly chosen for other groups belong- ing to the same test group were first pooled together.

Moreover the control group in which the highest number of polyps was formed had a similar level of variation as the LGG-treated group after 8 weeks as shown by the similar beta-diversity values 0060-0073.

All phyla with the exception of Verrucomicro- bia 94-fold and 25-fold decrease in control and probiotic group respectively did not show obvious abundance changes neither in the control nor probiotic group Fig.

We found that the progression of intestinal polyps in the control group altered the community functional profile remarkably despite small variation in the taxonomic diversity.

After genotyping the ApcMin mice were housed in groups of six to eight.Study designThe 7-week-old ApcMin mice were weighted and ran- domly assigned to control sulindac-treated and LGG- treated groups respectively such that the difference between average body weight of each group was 01 g. The mice were housed in groups of two or three per cage and fed on normal chow diet ND for 1 week of acclimatization.

Organ weight was calculated as a ratio of the organ weight to the body weight of each mouse and then adjusted to the average ratio of the control group.

For the polyp scoring an individual who was blinded to the treatment of the mice group observed and scored the polyps according to their locations and sizes under a 209 dissecting micro- scope Meiji Techno America San Jose CA.Sample collection DNA extraction and metagenomic shotgun sequencingThe mice stool samples were collected before the start and at the end of the experimental period and were immedi- ately stored at -80degC after collection see Methods S1 for details.

Polyps with diameters 2 mm were greatly reduced but there was also a slight increase in polys sized between 31 and 4 mm within the sulindac group Fig.

