in its healthy state the small intestinal epithelium covers an area of 30-40 square meters and completely renews itself every 5-7 days 1. the highly dynamic gut epithelium serves as a barrier between a large population of gut immune cells and the greater than 100 trillion microorganisms living within the intestinal lumen far more bacteria than there are cells in the entire host body 2.our understanding of gut dysfunction in critical illness has evolved greatly in the past 30 years and the gut is now frequently referred to as the motor of critical illness 3.critically ill patients may demonstrate a number of clinical findings suggestive of intestinal dysfunction including abdominal distension loss of bowel sounds diarrhea emesis bleeding and intra-abdominal hypertension.

doi10.1097pcc.0000000000001046.pathophysiology of the gut and the microbiome in the host responsejohn d. lyons md1 and craig m. coopersmith md11department of surgery and emory critical care center emory university school of medicine atlanta gaabstractobjective--to describe and summarize the data supporting the gut as the motor driving critical illness and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome mods presented at the eunice kennedy shriver national institute of child health and human development mods workshop march 26- 27 2015.data sources--summary of workshop keynote presentation.study selection--not applicable.data extraction--presented by an expert in the field the data assessing the role of gastrointestinal dysfunction driving critical illness were described with a focus on identifying knowledge gaps and research priorities.data synthesis--summary of presentation and discussion supported and supplemented by relevant literature.conclusions--the understanding of gut dysfunction in critical illness has evolved greatly over time and the gut is now often considered as the motor of critical illness.

decreased mucus production coupled with increased intestinal permeability may facilitate some degree of pancreatic autodigestion of the gut epithelium 20. enzymatic injury can then potentially further increase permeability creating a positive feedback loop of worsening gut integrity.intestinal microbiomerecently there has been increasing recognition that the intestinal microbiome - the complex ecosystem of bacterial species living within the intestinal lumen - plays a crucial role not only in maintaining general health but also in mediating pathology in critical illness.microbial diversity and robustness appear to be critical for maintenance of health.

gut epithelial apoptosis intestinal hyperpermeability and perturbations in the intestinal mucus layer have all been associated with critical illness.

finally there is growing evidence that the intestinal microbiome plays a crucial role in mediating pathology in critical illness.

on icu admission increased plasma concentrations of intestinal fatty-acid binding protein a gut-specific protein whose presence in plasma suggests gut injury and decreased levels of citrulline a marker of gut cellular mass have both been associated with increased icu morbidity and higher mortality at 28 days 5.translocation and gut-derived products causing distal injuryinitial interpretations of the gut as the motor of critical illness focused on the idea of bacterial translocation.

it was hypothesized that critical illness caused intestinal hyperpermeability resulting in the translocation of intact bacteria into the bloodstream causing systemic disease.

gut epithelial apoptosis is markedly increased in both murine models of sepsis and a human adult autopsy study in the icu 13. importantly overexpression of the anti-apoptotic protein bcl-2 in the intestinal epithelium in transgenic mice significantly improves survival in models of both polymicrobial abdominal sepsis and p. aeruginosa pneumonia 1415. in addition enterocyte-specific overexpression of epidermal growth factor also limits enterocyte apoptosis restores villus length and improves survival in sepsis 16.intestinal hyperpermeability is a hallmark of critical illness 17. tight junction proteins form adhesions between neighboring cells that typically limit paracellular flux and alterations to these structures are associated with increased gut permeability.

notably when expression of bacterial virulence factors is prevented by administration of a non-antibiotic high-molecular-weight polymer mice inoculated with typically virulent organisms are protected from mortality 27.conclusionthe relationship between intestinal dysfunction and critical illness is supported by data from both animal models and clinical studies.

in addition research has linked critical illness with gut epithelial apoptosis intestinal hyperpermeability and perturbations in the intestinallyons and coopersmithpage 5mucus layer.

finally there is growing evidence that alterations in the intestinal microbiome may also contribute to critical illness and organ injury.

intestinal epithelial hyperpermeability update on the pathogenesis of gut mucosal barrier dysfunction in critical illness.

further research is needed to better understand the role of each of these mechanisms and their contribution to mods in children.address correspondence to craig m coopersmith 101 woodruff circle suite wmb 5105 atlanta ga 30322 phone 404 727-4273 fax 404disclaimer this information or content and conclusions are those of the authors and should not be construed as the official position or policy of nor should any endorsements be inferred by the national institutes of health the us department of health and human services or the us government.lyons and coopersmithpage 2keywordsmultiple organ dysfunction syndrome intestinal barrier microbiome pediatricsintroductionthe gut is central to human well-being and disease.

while intensive care unit icu mortality is not predicted by any single gastrointestinal symptom the number of symptoms is higher in icu non-survivors than in survivors and mortality increases three-fold when three or more symptoms are present on icu admission 4. intestinal biomarkers associated with gut dysfunction are also detectable in critically ill individuals.

inhibition of mlck prevents changes in adhesion molecule expression and decreases bowel inflammation in a murine burn model 18.the intestinal epithelium is shielded from luminal contents by a protective layer of mucus.

