after controlling for gender postnatal age weight and birth gestational age the diversity of gut microbiome increased over time and was constantly higher in infants fed mom relative to infants with other feeding types p  .01.discussion--mother's own breast milk benefits gut microbiome development of preterm infants including balanced microbial community pattern and increased microbial diversity in early life.keywordsgut microbiome preterm infant human milk 16s rrna gene sequencingthe maintenance of human health and well-being relies on the interrelationship with a diverse gastrointestinal microbiome.

2014 khodayar-pardo mira-pascual collado  martinez-costa 2014 putignani del chierico petrucca vernocchi  dallapiccola 2014. thus there is a research emphasis on identifying predictors of optimal microbiome development and associated health implications especially within the preterm neonate population as preterm neonates are much more vulnerable to medical and developmental complications.our recent study explored day-to-day gut microbiome patterns in preterm infants during their first 30 days of life in the neonatal intensive care unit nicu and investigated potential factors related to the development of the infant gut microbiome cong xu janton et al.

in term infants mom has been associated with favorable alteration of gut microbiome such as bifidobacterium and lactobacillus in addition to pathogenic inhibition jost lacroix braegger  chassard 2015. recent evidence also points to the milk glycobiome as an influential factor in gut microbiome development newburg  morelli 2015 pacheco barile underwood  mills 2015. the glycobiome is comprised of a complex array of carbohydrates commonly termed human milk oligosaccharides with varied structure and linkage pacheco et al.

our finding related to bifidobacteria in preterm infants fed mom diet necessitates further investigation.in hdm the human milk oligosaccharides may not be significantly affected by the pasteurization process however because of the lack of live bacteria in hdm this processing may result in loss of the early interaction of the gut microbiome and oligosaccharides which may be beneficial in early life neu 2015. potential impact of hdm on bioactive components in association with microbiome development would contribute to the existing literature and warrants further research li hosseinian tsopmo friel  beta 2009 montjaux-regis et al.

prediction of gut microbial diversity from feeding type was estimated using linear mixed models.results--preterm infants fed mom at least 70 of the total diet had highest abundance of clostridiales lactobacillales and bacillales compared to infants in other feeding groups whereas infants fed primarily human donor milk or formula had a high abundance of enterobacteriales compared to infants fed mom.

2014 rodriguez 2014. the feeding of mom is essential for preterm infants however this is not always a possibility due to insufficient supply of mom leading to the necessity for the use of pasteurized human donor milk hdm and preterm infant formula.

while it is well known that raw mom is the most optimal nutritional source for preterm neonates further evidence is needed regarding dose-effect and timing relationships for combined feeding of mom with hdm or formula for preterm neonatal feeding when raw mom supplies are insufficient.

evidence about the influence of feeding type on gut microbial colonization of preterm infants is limited.objective--the purpose of this study was to explore the effect of feeding types on gut microbial colonization of preterm infants in the neonatal intensive care unit nicu.methods--thirty-three stable preterm infants were recruited at birth and followed-up for the first 30 days of life.

2014. ultimately understanding the developmental process of the neonatal gut microbiome is important in learning the role of the gut microbiome in preterm neonatal health outcomes.both inter- and intra-participant variability within naturally occurring microbial communities is anticipated and our results show the same pattern.

microbiome is used to refer to the collective genomes of the microbes and to date the gut microbiome also refers to a collection of microorganisms as well as the habitat they colonize in the gastrointestinal track weinstock 2012.many factors early in the perinatal period influence the development of neonatal gut microbiome.

in considering specific microbes the infants receiving mom had a higher abundance of clostridiales lactobacillales and bacillales compared to both the hdm and formula groups figure 1. furthermore compared to infants who received no mom clostridiales lactobacillales and bacillales contributed to greater microbial diversity in infants fed alternate milks hdm or formula with a small quantity of mom combined with the feeding figure 1. hence a small quantity of mom was associated with a more favorable microbial community.

hdm  human donor milk mom  mother's own milk.cong et al.page 16figure 2.four examples of daily gut microbiome development from individual infants with different feeding types.

2011.purposethe purpose of this study was twofold a to explore the effect of different feeding types including mom hdm formula and mixed feeding types on gut microbial patterns and b to investigate the contribution of different feeding types on the development of gut microbial diversities over the first 30 days of life in preterm infants in the nicu.methodsstudy design and participantsa secondary analysis of data used for cong xu janton et al.

our evidence supports need for increased lactation support for mothers of hospitalized preterm infants for sustained breastmilk production during hospitalization.although hdm is a preferable alternative when mom is not available further work is necessary in processing safe human milk for donation while maintaining compositional integrity toward fostering more diverse microbiome development peila et al.

pubmed 22957008jost t lacroix c braegger c chassard c. impact of human milk bacteria and oligosaccharides on neonatal gut microbiota establishment and gut health review.

