the core microbiome showed an overall stability with functional diets except genus such as escherichia-shigella that suffered severe reductions on their abundances when feeding any of the functional diets.conclusions functional diets based on pre- or probiotics dynamically modulate intestinal microbiota of juvenile trout engaging taxonomical abundance shifts that might impact fish physiological performance.significance and impact of the study this study shows for the first time the microbiome modulation dynamics by functional diets based on mannan- oligosaccharides and s. cerevisiae and their synergy using culture independent high-throughput sequencing technology revealing the complexity behind the dietary modulation with functional feeds in aquatic organisms.introductionmicrobiota are key to regulating health in higher verte- brates belkaid and hand 2014 kelder et al.

this was performed at 7 14 and 30 days after start feeding functional diets and microbiome diversity increased when fish fed functional diets after 7 days and it was positively correlated with plasma cholesterol levels.

generally these two strains were more abundant in the functional diet groups as compared to the ctrl group after 30 days with the exception of the pro group in which one of the strep- tococcus strains evidenced eightfold lower abundances.1009080706050403020100figure 3 bacterial phyla found in the intestinal mucosa and contents of rainbow trout fed functional diets for 30 days.

fish were fed once daily with a com- mercial diet ewosr coronel chile in proportion to 13 of the total biomass for each tank.after acclimatization fish were fed for 30 days with functional diets 12 proportion of biomass table 1. three functional diets were formulated a prebiotic diet pre addition of mannan-oligosaccharides a probiotic diet pro addition of saccharomyces cerevisiae and a mixed preprobiotic diet mix addition of mannan-oli- gosaccharides and s. cerevisiae.

in all functional diets clostridium abundances increased in comparison with ctrl group's community especially after 30 days a sampling point at which ctrl group clostridium abundances did not reach 1. microbial community composition in fish fed functional diets seemed influenced by trial duration with changes occur- ring over time.two main clusters fig.

colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.comboth time and diet produced an effect on intestinal microbial communities table 3 and contrast analysis table s4 corroborated most of the differences observed by principal coordinate analysis indicating a separation of the microbial communities of the three ctrl groups together with pro 30 days and mix 14 days from the communities of all the other functional diets groups.microbiome modulation at taxonomic levelsthe dominant bacterial phyla identified in all ctrl sam- ples were in descending order proteobacteria 75 fir- micutes 146 actinobacteria 23 acidobacteria 2 bacteroidetes 18 and fusobacteria 06 fig.

the concentrations oftable 1 proximate composition of different experimental functional dietsmannan-oligosaccharides000606diet proximate composition available from ewos-cargill mannan- oligosaccharides provided from a commercial source with a minimum of 12 mannan-oligosaccharides in the mixture.cerevisiae in diets ranged between 39 9 104 and 47 9 104 cfu per g of feed from pro and mix whereas pre and ctrl group present no yeast growth under the tested conditions.fish n  3 per tank were randomly sampled 7 14 and 30 days after the start of the functional diet trials fig.

2014. future studies will evaluate how functional diets impact the condition index during the rainbow trout culture production cycle up to 18 months as well as if functional diets work better or more efficiently during specific periods.although this study was performed in a controlled environment fish were maintained under recirculating conditions.

2011. these mechanismsmight be linked to the functional capacities of each spe- cies and to respective roles in microbiota interplays but this hypothesis requires further investigation.this study identified a core microbiota that included 28 taxa 12 of which are also found in the core rainbow trout microbiota reported by wong et al.

one cluster was composed by the ctrl 7 14 and 30 days mix 14 days and pro 14 days groups.

acidovorax had increased abundances after 7 days followed by a reduction after 14 days before again increasing at 30 days.

these results indicate significant dietary effects on this parameter table 2. plasma triglyceride levels were highest in mix fish at 7 and 30 days whereas changes in total cholesterol were not significant between diets or sampling days.

however gamma glutamyl transpeptidase plasma levels were lower in the pre group after 7 days and in the pre and mix groups after14 days as compared to the pro and ctrl diets.

a dynamic shift of the microbiome composition was observed with changes after 7 days of feeding and the modulation by functional diets tend to cluster the corresponding groups apart from ctrl group.

1cd respectively showed a significant increase in intestinal bacterial community diversity for all functional diets after 7 days remaining elevated in the pre group over the entire feeding trial.

