OBG and HFC displayed similar diversitieswhile PSE BSH and STAT animals had further reduced diversities compared to HFC for phylogenetic diversity whole tree and observed species p  0.05.

depicts the taxa most associated with each of the interventions and HFC as determined by LEfSe.Phylum-relative abundance analysis revealed a signifi- cant increase in OBG p  0.01 and decrease in STAT p  0.05 Verrucomicrobia levels when compared to HFC Additional file Figure S1.

Apolipoprotein-E-deficient mice were fed for 24 weeks either high-fatcholesterol diet alone control HFC or high-fatcholesterol in conjunction with one of three dietary interventions as follows plant sterol ester PSE oat b-glucan OBG and bile salt hydrolase-active Lactobacillus reuteri APC 2587 BSH or the drug atorvastatin STAT.

All intervention groups received a high-fatcholesterol HFC 42 fat 1.25 cholesterol Harlan diet alongside treatment for a 24- week period.

In addition E HFC diet control and F normal chow control NC were run concurrently.Bacteria and culturingA rifampicin-resistant derivative of BSH was created and stored in 70 vv glycerol at -80 degC.

The analysis revealed levels of a range of specific amino acids biogenic amines BA acylcarnitines AC lysophosphotidylcho- lines lysoPC phosphotidylcholines PC sphingomyelins SM and hexoses.Statistical analysisBiochemical and biometric data were analyzed by one-way ANOVA against the HFC performed in PASW Statistics v18.0 IBM Corp. Chicago IL USA.

All groups were analyzed by Kruskal-Wallis followed by 2- tailed Mann-Whitney U pairwise comparisons solely be- tween HFC and each other group.MetaboAnalyst metabolomics analysis suite - was utilized for normalization and multivariate analyses of data.

PERMANOVA analyses of all groups together and direct comparisons of each treatment group against the HFC were performed using Adonis Vegan onBray-Curtis index of dissimilarity PCoA plot.

For all analyses a p value of less than 0.05 was consid- ered to be statistically significant.ResultsBiochemical and biometric analysisAnimal body weights stratified the six groups into two significantly separate clusters p  0.01 the high-weight cluster which consists of PSE HFC and BSH and a low- weight cluster consisting of STAT OBG and NC--named in order of descending mean body weight Fig.

Both OBG p  0.01 and STAT p  0.05 mice presented with reduced percentage body fat when compared to the HFC Fig.

