p  005 v. ref diet  p  005 v. c10 diet  p  005 v. cf diet.leptin concentration was not affected after the c10 diet but it was up-regulated as a result of the cf diet intake compared with that in the rest of the groups p  005 1.faecal igathe c10 diet intake resulted in a decrease in the secretory iga concentration compared with that in the other groups p  005 2. the cf diet did not produce any change in the secreted iga concentration which was similar to that quantified in the ref group.urinary metabolic profilean opls-da model with strong predictive ability q2y  093 p  0001 was returned comparing the metabolic profiles from rats receiving the c10 diet and the ref diet 3a and rats fed the c10 diet excreted cocoa-derived metabolites such as n-methylnicotinic acid nmna and nicotine mono- nucleotide nmn as well as methylxanthine metabolites that is theobromine xanthine 1-methylxanthine 1-mx 3-methylxanthine 3-mx 7-methylxanthine 7-mx imidazole dimethyluric acid dmu.

coefficient plots extracted from the opls-da models comparing rats receiving a ref diet with c10 diet b ref diet with cf diet and c c10 diet with cf diet.

sebacate 4-guanidinobutanoate creatinine allantoin and pseudouridine were also present in lower amounts in the urine samples of c10-fed animals compared with those in the ref group.with regard to the cf diet clear metabolic variation wasobserved in the urine samples of rats fed this diet compared with the samples of those fed the ref diet 3b and opls-da model q2y  065 p  0001. cocoa-derived meta- bolites such as nmna nmn theobromine xanthine 1-mx 3-mx 7-mx and dmu were found in the urine samples of rats receiving the cf diet but not in that of those receiving the ref diet.

p  005 v. ref diet  p  005 v. cf diet.table 1. metabolic hormones in plasma after 3 weeks of nutritional intervention mean values with their standard errors n 7ref reference diet c10 10  cocoa diet cf cocoa fibre diet glp-1 glucagon-like peptide-1.

the microbial metabolitesabbreviations 4-hpa 4-hydroxypropionic acid 3-is 3-indoxyl-sulfate c10 10  cocoa diet cf cocoa fibre diet iaa indole-3-acetic acid nmn nicotine mononucleotide nmnd n-methylnicotinamide opls-da orthogonal projection to latent structures-discriminant analysis pag phenylacetylglycine ref reference diet.

to this effect wistar rats were fed for 3 weeks a diet containing 10  cocoa c10 or two other diets with same the proportion of fibres one based on cocoa fibre cf and another containing inulin as a reference ref diet.

the c10 group received chow containing 10  cocoa that provided a final diet concentration of 04 polyphenols 085  soluble fibre and 255  insoluble fibre the cf group received a diet with the same cocoa soluble and insoluble fibre proportions as the c10 group but with a very low amount of polyphenols 002  and the ref group received the same amount of fibre as the c10 group with the soluble portion 085  as inulin in order to distinguish the particular effect of cocoa fibre as has been previously reported.

no changes in body weight gain were found as a result of cf diet intake.metabolic hormonesthe metabolic hormones quantified in plasma after the 3-week dietary intervention for all groups are summarised in 1. both the c10 and cf diets increased the concentration of ghrelin compared with the ref group p  005. this increase was higher in the c10 group compared with that in the cf group p  005. both diets also resulted in a lower plasma glp-1 concentration in comparison with that in the ref group p  005. moreover the c10 diet reduced the glucagon con- centration compared with the ref and cf diets p  005.downloaded from .

moreover rats receiving the c10 diet also excreted greater amounts of taurine compared with those receiving the ref diet.

conversely animals receiving the c10 diet excreted lower amounts of metabolites related to energy metabolism acetone citrate 2-oxoglutarate 2-og n-methylnicotinamide nmnd choline metabolism dimethylamine dma dime- thylglycine dmg choline and the metabolism of dietary components sucrose glucose tartrate compared with those receiving the ref diet.

profiles from animals receiving the cf diet clustered together and were separated from the ref diet.

lower amounts of 4-hpa hippurate 3-is pag aki dmg sebacate 4-guanidi- nobutanoate ethanol creatinine allantoin and pseudouridine were also measured in the urine samples of the cf group compared with those in the ref group.finally the opls-da model contrasting the urinary metabolic phenotypes from rats receiving the c10 diet and those fed the cf diet 3c and q2y  089 p  0001 also showed some clear differences.

as expected rats consuming thec10 diet excreted higher levels of cocoa- nmna nmn catechin- and methylxanthine- theobromine xanthine 1-mx and 3-mx imidazole dmu derivatives compared with that of the rats fed the cf diet.

interestingly nmnd 3-is and pseudouridine were excreted in lower amounts after the c10 diet compared with that after the cf diet.

whereas the cf diet did not affect the iga content the c10 diet in accordance with findings from previous studies resulted in a significantly lower faecal iga concentration.

