for instance strains biut2n and hma2n doubled their cell density in smrs 0.85 and 1.16 at l  600 nmgrowth curves of hbs-lab in non-supplemented mrs red and supplemented-mrs blue at measured od l 600 nm.compared to the growth in nsmrs a cell density of 0.31 and 0.58 respectively after 32 h of incubation.the remaining seven strains including five lactobacilli hon2n bin4n hma11n fhon2n and fhon13n and two bifidobacteria bin2n and bin7n were only able to grow in smrs medium .as previously shown  the bacterial strains fhon2n and fhon13n grew faster than the other hbs-lab in smrs and reached early stationary phase after 24 h. fhon2n reached the highest cell density  at early stationary phase followed by bin2n and fhon13n .

another objective was to evaluate a novel identification approach to differentiate the hbs-lab strains using a recently published illumina amplicon error-correction program  for retrieving 16s rrna gene sequences from illumina sequences.methodshoneybee specific lab and culture conditionsthirteen hbs-lab strains nine lactobacilli l. kunkeei fhon2n l. apinorum fhon13n l. mellis hon2n l. mellifer bin4n l. apis hma11n l. helsingborgensis bma5n l. melliventris hma8n l. kimbladii hma2n l. kullabergensis biut2n and four bifidobacteria b. asteroides bin2n b. asteroides bin7n b. asteroides hma3n and b. coryneforme bma6n were originally isolated and identified as previously described .

the 13 hbs-lab strains were sequenced in two miseq runs dna material extracted from the strains bin2n and hma8n were pooled in one sequencing run and the others were pooled in another run.sequence processingsince each bacterial strain was expected to contain only a few variants of 16s rrna gene sequences  we subsampled 10000 read pairs from each strain for the data analysis except hma8n which contained only 6664 reads and for which we used all reads.

the remaining strains hon2n bin4n hma11n bma5n hma2n hma8n biut2n and bma6n reached early stationary phase after approximately 30-32 h incubation in smrs figs and .growth curves of hbs-lab in non-supplemented mrs red with supplemented-mrs blue at measured od l 600 nm.16s rrna sequencing of hbs-labthe v1-v2 regions of the 16s rrna genes of each of the 13 hbs-lab strains were sequenced.

nine of the 13 strains were dominated  99.6 of reads by a single sequence type while the remaining strains where dominated by two or three sequence types.

besides the major sequences some strains had a few sequence reads that matched dominant sequences of other strains possibly caused by cross-contamination when preparing the sequencing library.due to biases and limitations of the commonly used techniques discussed earlier we sug- gest a simple approach for accurate identification of the 16s rrna sequence variants of the hbs-lab symbionts to strain level by combining targeted sequencing of the v1-v2 regions of the 16s rrna gene and the dada2 software for analysis of illumina data.

however these vital supplements fructose and l-cysteine have not been used in bacterial cultivation by other researchers - possibly explaining the inability to isolate more than a few hbs-lab.lab species occurring in low numbers are often out-competed in vitro by numerically more abundant microbial species making isolation of the less abundant bacterial strains diffi- cult.

the hitherto applied molecular approaches used in various studies have failed to identify and differentiate all individual species and strains of the hbs-lab micro- biota originating from the honey crop -.

inadequate isolation of genomic bacterial dna a key step in molecular biology techniques may be another explanation for underesti- mating the number of hbs-lab strains present in honeybees.

consequently the aim of the present study was to demonstrate the requirements for vital growth supplements of the 13 hbs-lab strains by monitoring growth rates.

all strains were incubated individually and anaerobically at 35c in non-supplemented man rogosa  sharpe nsmrs oxoid ltd england broth and in mrs broth supplemented with 2 fructose merck sollentuna sweden and 0.1 l-cysteine sigma-aldrich stockholm sweden smrs.growth curvesnon-supplemented mrs and supplemented mrs broth were inoculated with each hbs-lab strain individually and their growth monitored every 2 hours h for 3 days of incubation by measuring the optical density od at l  600 nm in a spectrophotometer gynesys thermo- spectronic usa.

after checking chimeric sequences from the denoised forward and reverse sequences function isbimeradenovo and removing them from the merged sequences a total of 22 sequence types were finally inferred from the 13 hbs-lab strains.

to evaluate whether the dada2 inferred 16s rrna sequences corresponded to the 13 hbs-lab strains' genetic content the obtained sequences were blast-searched against the ncbi nt database for taxonomic information.

they were also compared to the 16s rrna gene sequences sanger sequenced reference sequences of the 13 hbs-lab strains for examining the differences between the inferred sequences and the reference sequences.

figtree v1.4.2  was used for tree visualization.resultsgrowth of honeybee specific labonly six of the 13 hbs-lab strains four lactobacilli bma5n hma8n hma2n and biut2n and two bifidobacteria hma3n and bma6n were able to grow in nsmrs.

