in the eu the introduction of novel foods that have not been used in the eu prior to may 15 1997 is currently governed by the novel food regulation ec 28597 5. this regulation clearly defines the risk assessment steps required for any authorization of a novel food prior to the introduction into the eu market.

in regulatory sense human milk oli- gosaccharides are classified as novel foods or novel food ingredients requiring safety as- sessment.

hmos could be considered as prebiotics and specific compo- nents targeted toward unique outcomes and functionalities can be expected to emerge.regulatory frameworkin the majority of countries hmos are characterized as novel foods in the food regulation and therefore several food authorities require a mandatory safety assessment.the regulations governing the introduction of novel foods vary by geograph- ical region.

there are a number of areas that need to be addressed in any safety assessment of novel food ingredients nfi.european unionworldwide the regulations governing novel foods functional foods and tradi- tional foods vary.

the decisions are explained in an inventory specifying the uses and restrictions for each novel food or novel food component process or nfi authorisationslistauthorisationsindexen.htm.

an example of health claim substantiation is given for probiotics and prebiotics 15. it is important to remember that the single hmos and their combinations all form unique products for testing and thus careful consideration and adjustment are neces- sary prior to conducting human intervention trials.the areas of interest have included hmos and necrotizing enterocolitis dif- ferent microbial challenges in the gut traveller's diarrhea and even long-term potentiation of learning capabilities in a rodent model 16-20.summary and future perspectiveswhat is known of hmos in the regulatory area in the united states and the european unionin the eu hmos are considered novel foodsnfis with 2 oligosaccharides and their combination passed through safety assessment.in the usa 3 hmos have been passed through according to the gras no- tification system.in the eu the novel food regulation is updated and will be fully operation- al in 2018 the approval system will be revised and new guidance for applica- tions has been set by efsa.no health claims exist for hmos in the eu or usa and if applied for these need to be documented for efficacy.the regulatory framework of hmos varies by geographic region thus differ- ent interpretations on both safety and potential claims could be foreseen.disclosure statementno conflicts of interest.referencesbode l the functional biology of human milk oligosaccharides.

efsa j 2015134299.efsa panel on dietetic products nutrition and allergies scientific opinion on the safety of 2'-o-fucosyllactose as a novel food ingredi- ent pursuant to regulation ec no 25897. efsa j 2015134184.efsa panel on dietetic products nutrition and allergies statement on the safety of lac- to-n-neotetraose and 2'-o-fucosyllactose as novel food ingredients in food supplements for children.

such consideration involves specific regulatory steps which are in process in several countries and regions.issues pertaining to novel hmos have increased rapidly due to the fast-paced research on the impact hmos and the possibility of their larger-scale produc- tion.

hmos represent novel tools to modulate the gut microbiota and thus po- tentially provide health benefits for infants children and adults.

in some cases confusion can result in differentiating novel foods from functional foods or as in the european union the regulatory category of functional foods is formed by foods with european commission-approved health claims.

the fundamental difference between these two categories of foods is that novel foods must be evaluated based on their safety whereas foods with health claims need to be evaluated for any desired nutritional functional or dis- ease risk reduction claims.

the 2-category evaluation in eu- rope appears most likely for hmos.the views and challenges of current legislative framework in the usa eu- rope and some other countries are summarized regarding the assessment of hmos and their novel food status from the regulatory and scientific viewpoint.

1. european regulatory areas on novel foods and foods with health claims related to potential hmo-containing foods.mucosal surfaces for improving the health of the host.

novel foods and foods with health claims fall under spe- cific regulations in several countries.

one member state is responsible for the initial safety assessment of the novel food.

