taking into consideration that the foliar nitrogen feeding was performed during the veraison and the study was carried out during the grape harvest the lack of relevant changes in the microbial diversity could mean that the foliar application did not exert any effect on the grape surface.only in the must samples were significant differences observed in the alpha diversity in control samples and samples after the foliar urea application.

some of these eb such as bacil- lus could be involved in nitrogen fixation  but in this case the feeding seemed not to be directly related with the pres- ence of nitrogen fixing species in must and grape samples.overall the alpha microbial diversity of grape samples slightly in-creased after the foliar nitrogen treatments independently of theinfusion employed for the study although with no statistical signifi- cance.

7 yeasts that were the same as those described in the phe sample m-e and 8 eb from the genera burkholderia collimonas massilia rhi- zobium staphylococcus enterobacter and sporolactobacillus.diversity indicesthe average diversity indices assessed with the species forming each grape and must replicate are shown in  along with the statistical analyses assessed for the different samples in grape and must samples from enriched and non-enriched media.

5. a canonical discriminant analysis of control c and treated phenylalanine phe or urea ur grape g and must m samples from non-enriched d and enriched e infusions.b standardized canonical coefficients of the two main discriminant variables in function 1 and function 2 obtained for different diversity indices.. direct dna extractions from grape and must samples as well as several infusions in non-enriched and enriched liquid media were performed to elucidate the optimal way to identify the highest quantity of microbial species.incubating the grapes in a non-enriched medium prior to dgge was an adequate approach that allowed the detection of twenty genera of eukaryotic lab and eb thirteen out of them not detected with the enriched infusions.

phenylalanine and urea foliar application effect on grape and must microbiotalucia gonzalez-arenzana javier portu rosa lopez patrocinio garijo teresa garde-cerdan isabel lopez-alfaro icvv instituto de ciencias de la vid y del vino gobierno de la rioja universidad de la rioja csic finca la grajera ctra.

burgos km 6 26007 logrono la rioja spaina r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 11 september 2016received in revised form 23 january 2017accepted 24 january 2017available online 26 january 2017keywords phenylalanine ureafoliar application microbiota grapemusta b s t r a c t the main aim of this study was to describe the impact of foliar phenylalanine and urea application on grape and must microbial populations.

the alpha diversity indices of grape after both foliar nitrogen treatments did not show significant changes in comparison to the control samples but were modified in some indices in must samples.

fur- ther research would be necessary to properly predict the impact on winemaking of the effects observed in this study for grape and must microbiota especially regarding the foliar application of urea.c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.introductionnitrogen is quite an important molecule in oenology.

in addition determined an improvement in soil microbial activ- ity after nitrogen and phosphorous fertilization.the lack of knowledge regarding grape and must microbiota after fo- liar feeding along with the significance of describing possible effects of foliar phenylalanine and urea applications on the microbial populations defined the main objectives for this research.

one was composed of grape sam- ples and placed in the negative part of the f2 axis and the other ur g-e c m-e and phe m-e samples were on the positive f2 axis.discussionthe current research was carried out to describe the possible chang- es in the microbial community after the foliar application of two differ- ent nitrogen sources to tempranillo grapevines.

the tool to perform the study was the dgge technique considered a quick precise and valuable culture-independent method in winemaking environments table 1microbial alpha diversity indices and statistical assessment of the differences of grape g and must m samples from non-enrichment d and enrichment e infusion and of control c and treated grapevines with phenylalanine phe and urea ur foliar application.different letters mean significant differences p b 0.05 n  3. no letters mean no significant differences.fig.

roseum species in grape and must samples after all the foliar treatments.

in effect this environmental bacterial group was the one that decreased its biodiversity after the foliar treatments in grape samples in general terms.

in must samples the eb community was fairly reduced in comparison with the grape samples but it was even more reduced after the foliar phenylalanine treatment which would be positive for wine safety taking into consideration the probable unhealthy effects that they can cause after consuming them.

no significant micro- bial changes were observed in the microbial communities of grape sur- face so the foliar spraying of nitrogen compounds could not affect the natural biofilm of grapes.

