this analysis included previously published studies concerning adults of seven phlebotomine sand fly species p. argentipes p. chinensis p. duboscqi p. halepensis p. sergenti p. papatasi p. perfiliewi our study reported on p. perniciosus and previously pub- lished data reported on three lutzomyia species l. cruzi l. evansi l. longipalpis -.

october is characterized by b. oleronus and unidentifiednetwork analysis showing the shared bacteria species found in phlebotomus sand flies including p. argentipes p. duboscqii p. halepensis p. papatasi p. perlifiliewi p. perniciosus p. sergenti and p. chinensis identified by squares surrounded by green and bacteria found in lutzomyia sand flies including l. evansi l. cruzi and l. longipalpis identified with squares surrounded by blue.

the overall dataset used in our analyses included ten phlebotominae l. cruzi l. longipalpis  l. evansi  p. argentipes  p. duboscqi  p. halepensis p. papatasi - p. sergenti  p. perfiliewi  p. chinensis  and p. perniciosus and their associated microbiota for the present study.

in this study we isolated b. subtilis from p. perniciosus midgut in addition to other bacillus species bacillus oleronius bacillus casamensis bacillus galactosidilyticus and bacillus sp.. bacteria belonging to the bacillus genus seem to display a host-specific distribu- tion with only b. subtilis being isolated in more than one sand fly species p. halepensis p. papatasi and p. perniciosus.

color chart indicate the occurrence of the bacterial genera or species.nevertheless in the meta-set no significant differences in the microbiota composition at the genus level was observed as demonstrated in the that depicts the shannon left and simpson right indices of diversity for old world i.e phlebotomus and new world sand flies lutzomyia.monthly dynamics of the gut bacterial consortium during the main period of p. perniciosus activitydepicts the monthly proportions of each previously characterized bacterial species.

but clearly most bacterial species 76 are sparsely distributed between phlebotominae species.conclusionsignificanceour results pinpoint the need for a more exhaustive understanding of the bacterial richness and abundance at the species level in phlebotominae sand flies in order to capture the role of midgut bacteria during leishmania development and transmission.

bacterial species assignation.the results of isolating bacterial species from the midguts of field-collected and lab-rearedp.

although 16s rrna gene sequencing is highly useful with regards to bacterial classification it has a low phylogenetic power at the species level for some genera .depending on the 16s rrna variable region targeted and the database used to perform the taxonomic profiling misassignation of bacterial otu at the species level could be frequent .

the occurrence of bacillus subtilis in p. perniciosus and at least two other sand fly species studied so far sug- gests that this bacterial species is a potential candidate for paratransgenic or biolological approaches for the control of sand fly populations in order to prevent leishmania transmission.introductionsand flies are vectors of various pathogens including arboviruses and bacteria but are best known as the principal vectors of leishmania the etiological agent of leishmaniasis a neglected tropical disease with clinical symptoms varying in form from cutaneous to visceral .

bacillus thuringiensis is the only spe- cies of the bacillus genus that was isolated from l. evansi and p. chinensis two sand fly species belonging to the new world and old world respectively .bacterial genera part i and species part ii shared by two or more of the eleven phlebotominae sand flies species.

for the field-collected p. perniciosus the calculated midgut bacterial composition was firmicutes 53.5 actinobacteria 15.2 and proteobacteria 31.3. for laboratory-reared sand flies the midgut bacterial composition was firmicutes 66.7 and proteobacteria 33.3. we did not isolate bacteria belonging to the actinobacteria phylum from the midgut of laboratory- reared sand flies.

bacteria are identified by an abbreviation ba bacillus br brevundimonas en enterococcus ko kocuria ly lysinibacillus mib microbacterium mic micrococcus oc ochrobactrum no nocardia rh rhizobium ro roseomonas sa sacharomonospora se serratia sp sporosarcina ste stenotrophomonas st staphylococcus.therefore the nature of the feeding regimen leads to a striking contrast between field-collected and laboratory-reared sand flies which might explain the lower bacterial richness observed in colonized sand flies.among the bacterial genera found associated with p. perniciosus midgut we identified iso- lates belonging to the burkholderia genus and stenotrophomonas maltophilia an aerobic non- fermentative and a gram-negative bacterium.

bacillus subti- lis was isolated from p. halepensis p. papatasi and p. perniciosus.

overall the bacterial richness recorded in field-collected sand flies at the species level seems to be more important than in laboratory-reared flies even if the total number of lab-reared flies studied is small.to further characterize the bacterial richness in field-collected sand flies a culture- independent method dgge was performed on the 45 dissected midguts .

nevertheless we did not notice significant differences in bacterial phylum composition between old world and new world sand flies chi-squared  5.8226 df  2 p-value  0.0544 .within the proteobacteria phylum compared with the alpha- beta- and deltaproteobacteria identified gammaproteobacteria are by far the most frequently found bacterial class in lutzo- myia and phlebotomus species right panel.

