Our results indicate high similarity between the bacterial communities of aliquots from the same sample even when different storage conditions or di- lutions were used.Rectal swab compared to stool specimensTo evaluate stool versus swab sample collection we col- lected one stool sample and multiple rectal swabs during the next 24 to 27 h from 8 patients each 6 women and 2 men with a median age of 55 years IQR 47-58 years.

Labels indicate sample type f  stool s  swab subject number sample number and approximate sampling time in hours relative to stool sample collection.

For example s1424 indicates a swab sample from subject 1 sample number 4 collected at approximately 24 h after the stool sample.

Similarly a previ- ous study found that rectal swabs were a suitable alterna- tive to stool for analyzing the intestinal microbiota using IS-pro a method that differentiates bacteria based on in- ternal transcribed spacer ITS length and phylum-specific fluorescent primers .ConclusionsGastrointestinal microbiota studies based on bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequencing have options for interim sample storage conditions 4 degC or -20 degC vs. -80 degC and sample collection methods stool vs. rectal swab that may increase sampling feasibility in the hospital setting without altering results.Fig.

85-0.97 Wilcoxon test p-value 0.0001 indicating minimal differences between stool and swab samples collected from the same individual over the sampling period.Conclusion For gastrointestinal microbiota studies based on bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis interim stool sample storage at 4 degC or -20 degC rather than immediate storage at -80 degC does not significantly alter results.

Stool and rectalswab samples were stored up to 27 h at 1-8 degC before being frozen at -80 degC.Specimen processing for storage conditions analysisFor the storage conditions analysis each specimen was divided into 15 aliquots to evaluate each of the different storage conditions being tested Table Aliquots of 0.2 g of stool were prepared in Sarstedt tubes in triplicate for each storage condition.

One rectal swab sample yielded DNA levels too low for accurate bacterial community analysis likely rendering that sample especially susceptible to con- tamination.

For the stool and rectal swab comparison samples from different patients regardless of sample collection method were significantly different AMOVA p-values 0.001-0.029 compared to no significant difference between all stool and swab samples AMOVA p-value 0.976.

To detect possible contamination an unused swab and a reagents onlyno sample control were processed through DNA isolation and PCR with the stool and swab samples.

We attempted to confirm the bacterial community compos- ition of s123 from the second swab head of the dual swab sample.

