bacterial groups that shower enriched levels in patients are shown in red whereas those with enriched numbers in controls are shown in green.table 2spearman rank order correlations between bacterial numbers and clinical symptoms in first-episode psychosis patients.associations with symptom severity clinical response and potential confoundersto investigate associations with clinical symptom severity and re- mission we identified patients with the greatest multivariate difference in microbiota composition compared to controls.

here we investigated differences in fecal microbiota between 28 patients with first- episode psychosis fep and 16 healthy matched controls and explored whether such differences were associat- ed with response after up to 12 months of treatment.

here we in- vestigated the composition of fecal microbiota of fep-patients and com- pare it to healthy matched controls.

controls matched by age sex and region of residence were identified from the population register center and sent an invitation letter to participate in the study.all participants provided written informed consent for protocols ap- proved by the ethics committee of the hospital district of helsinki and uusimaa 2571303032009. the treating psychiatrist evaluated the patients' capacity to provide informed consent before they were approached by the study team.clinical assessmentfep-patients were assessed three times.

based on these ratings we created a dichotomous variable with 0 indicating all subjects who did not engage in physical activity during their leisure time and with 1 for physically active subjects.patients and controls were assessed for several metabolic parame- ters.

using the projection on the first two com- ponents we identified the patients that showed the strongest difference in microbiota profiles compared to controls.

student's t-test was used for testing group differences in log10 transformed qpcr derived variables and associations with patients' symptoms were quan- tified using spearman's correlation tests.resultsclinical characteristics and qpcr-analysesthe cohort investigated in this study comprised 28 fep-patients and 16 controls  which did not differ in terms of age p  0.25 sex p  0.76 and several metabolic parameters .

the median duration of antipsychotic treatment at baseline was 20 days first quartile 13 third quartile 46. two patients who had refused anti- psychotic treatment were antipsychotic-naive at the baseline assessment.the numbers of bacteria within the analyzed bacterial groups were similar in both patients and controls .

due to high inter-individ- ual variation and small study population the differences between cases and controls were not statistically significant .

at the family level lactobacillaceae halothiobacillaceae brucellaceae and micrococcineae were increased whereas veillonellaceae were de- creased in fep patients compared to controls.

1. difference in bacterial numbers log10 as detected with bacterial group specific qpcr analyses between healthy controls and fep patients.

we specifically compared the 18 patients that clustered outside the distribution of the controls against the remaining patientsa.

among patients that clustered with controls infig.

2. taxonomic differences of fecal microbiota between fep patients and healthy controls derived from the lefse method.

taxa with enriched levels in patients are shown in red whereas those with enriched levels in controls are shown in green.

