this means that high levels of genetic variation have been detected at study sites which were closely located to other fragments in 1830. however habitat area today's distance to the nearest calcareous grassland habitat shape habitat con- ditions and population size had no impact on the genetic diversity of the species.discussionimpact of habitat fragmentation on genetic diversityin our study we observed an impact of the historical landscape configuration on the genetic diversity of the study species since it depended on the distance to the nearest calcareous grassland in 1830 in the hier- archical bayesian regressions.

the distance to the next calcareous grassland in 1830 d1830 exhibits a credible impact on the genetic variation of all species at the selected study sites in italic letters as hdi 0 rc standardised regression coefficientpersistence of the grassland species  these factors may be the most likely explanation for the lack of rela- tionship between habitat area or population size and genetic diversity in this study.aside from decreasing habitat area isolation of cal- careous grasslands is also an important consequence of habitat fragmentation  .

based upon this matrix we cal- culated the genetic diversity of each population as nei's gene diversity  using the program aflp surv .bayesian multiple regressionsthe impact of habitat fragmentation and habitat con- ditions on diversity was analysed using a robust hier- archical bayesian multiple regression approach with regression parameters for the species level not shown and an overarching set of hyperparameters for the species-independent estimation of regression param- eters.

another reason for the lack of relationship between habitat conditions and genetic diversity could be the per- sistence of seeds in the soil seed bank which may have contributed to the regeneration of the populations and to the maintenance of genetic diversity within the studied populations .conclusionsthe results of our study provide evidence that the genetic diversity of calcareous grassland plant species depends on historical landscape configuration rather than on the present population size or habitat conditions.

more specifically we ask the following questions i has fragmentation of calcareous grasslands a significant impact on genetic diversity of plant populations ii is historical landscape configuration more important for genetic diversity than present landscape configurationii is genetic diversity of grassland plant populations affected by habitat conditionsmethodsstudy sites habitat fragmentation and habitat conditions for our study we randomly selected 18 remnant calcare- ous grasslands in the valleys of the rivers naab and laber on the franconian alb in south eastern germany near regensburg fig.

in contrast to previous studies which reported higher levels of genetic diversity in populations from his- torically older habitat fragments of forests  or calcar- eous grasslands  we observed no impact of habitat age on genetic diversity in our analysis.surprisingly neither historical nor present habitat connectivity had an impact on genetic diversity in our study.

mean genetic diversity of populations table  was highest in m. falcata 0.29 followed by s. pratensis 0.26 p. comosa 0.25 and d. carthusianorum 0.23. the lowest level of genetic diversity was observed in p. veris 0.18.considering each species separately and all species together in the hierarchical bayesian multiple regres- sions we observed a credible impact of the distance to the nearest calcareous grassland in 1830 on the genetic variation within populations of the studied grassland species fig.

this process of habitat fragmentation is a general threat to biodiversity reducing species richness within small and isolated habitat patches .however fragmentation has not only an impact on biodiversity at the species level but also on the genetic diversity due to geographic isolation of smaller popula- tions .

moreover it has been shown that the genetic diversity of dianthus carthusianorum depends on patch connectivity by shepherding  and that population disconnection can create a genetic bot- tleneck even in the absence of a demographic collapse  which underlines the importance of historical gene flow for the level of current genetic diversity.impact of habitat conditions on genetic variationthe results of our analyses indicated no impact of habitat conditions on genetic diversity of the studied calcareous grassland species.

bmc ecol 2017 1719doi 10.1186s12898-017-0129-9bmc ecologygenetic diversity of calcareous grassland plant species depends on historical landscape configurationchristoph reisch1 sonja schmidkonz1 katrin meier1 quirin schopplein1 carina meyer1 christian hums1 christina putz1 and christoph schmid2backgroundcalcareous grasslands are important hotspots of plant species diversity in central europe.

however we observed a relationship between genetic diversity of the grassland species and the distance to the nearest grassland patch in 1830. therefore the historical landscape configurationvariance param- eternormality param- eter0.4435.4120.240.584.45 70441.0082.89is more important for the genetic diversity of calcare- ous grassland species than the present landscape struc- ture.

moreover due to different bio- logical traits patterns of genetic variation differ betweenplant species  and these may react completely differ- ent to fragmentation again explaining unclear results of many genetic fragmentation surveys.in this study we analysed the impact of fragmentation on genetic diversity of several calcareous grassland spe- cies in a comparative approach including both habitat fragmentation and habitat conditions.

lag effects a delayed reaction of genetic diversity on the reduction of population size  which is comparable to the extinction debt reported for species diversity   could be a rea- son for the observed lack of a relationship between genetic diversity and population size .

the distance to the next calcareous grassland in 1830 d1830 exhibits a credible impact on the genetic variation of the selected species in italic letters as its hdi excludes zero rc standardised regression coefficientthe absence of this relationship may occur when the habitat area rapidly changes relative to the generation time of the study species .

lack of grazing is therefore the most important reason for the declining species diversity of the grasslands whereas fragmentation aspects play no significant role.in contrast to the impact of land use on species diver- sity the relationship between land use and genetic diver- sity is much less clear.

