total serum bile acids were significantly lower in children with eed compared with children without eed p  0.0009. mean sd serum glycine in children with and without eed was 339 105 and 312 69 umoll respectively p  0.06. mean sd serum taurine in children with and without eed was 186 57 and 156 50 umoll respectively p  0.0001.serum bile acid ratios were examined in order to gain insight into bile acid conjugation table 4. the tcatdcagcagdca and tcatdcatcdcagcagdcagcdca ratios which provide insight into the relative proportion of bile acids conjugated by taurine were higher in children with eed compared to children without eed both p  0.0001.spearman correlations between the different serum bile acids glycine and taurine are shown table 5. in general the highest spearman correlation coefficients were found between the same bile acid that was conjugated by either taurine or glycine i.e.

serum bile acids were measured using stable-isotope liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.results--in the overall study population serum cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid were lower while glycocholic acid taurodeoxycholic acid glycodeoxycholic acid glycolithocholic acid and glycoursodeoxycholic acid were significantly higher at older ages.

spearman correlations between serum bile acids and age are shown table 2. age was negatively correlated with cholic acid ca and chenodeoxycholic acid cdca both p  0.0001 and positively correlated with taurodeoxycholic acid tdca glycodeoxycholic acid gdca and glycolithocholic acid glca all p  0.0001 glycocholic acid gca p  0.02 and glycoursodeoxycholic acid gudca p  0.03. there were no significant differences in any serum bile acids between boys and girls data not shown.

independent of age serum taurochenodeoxycholic acid tauromuricholic acid and glycoursodeoxycholic acid were significantly different between 244 children with and 69 children without eed.

the gut microbiome can affect the composition bile acids through dehydroxylation epimerization oxidation esterification desulfation and other reactions in the production of secondary bile acids 20. conversely the bile acid pool can affect the composition of the gut microbiome 20. while the gut microbiome was not directly measured in the children in the present study it is known that children with malnutrition in the same population in malawi have lower levels of beneficial microbiota such as lactobacilli and bifidobacteria 21. exposure to bacteroidales species and escherichia coli combined with a moderately malnourished diet can remodel the small intestine in mice to resemble features of eed found in humans 22.there were modest differences in both serum taurine concentrations and proportion of bile acids conjugated with taurine instead of glycine in children with eed compared to children without eed.

gudca tauromurocholic acid tmca tdca cdca glca and ursodeoxycholic acid udca comprised a relatively small portion of total serum bile acids.serum bile acid concentrations were compared between children with and without eed adjusting for age table 3. serum tcdca tmca and gudca were significantly different between the two groups.

in healthy adults the liver synthesizes 500 mg of cholesterol per day of which 90 is utilized for bile acid synthesis and the remainder for synthesis of steroid hormones 18. if the modest reduction in serum bile acids is reflective of the total bile acid pool higher hepatic bile acid synthesis may be required to compensate for this reduction.there is a paucity of data on serum bile acids as measured by lc-msms in children.

the lower serum bile acids in children with eed suggest that these children do not have liver disease at least to the extent that could affect the hepatic extraction of bile acids.the entire bile acid pool passes through the enterohepatic circulation 8-12 times per day and under normal circumstances 3-5 of bile acids are lost in the stool 6 17. thus each day up to a third of the bile acid pool is lost and must be synthesized.

the role of the gut microbiome in bile acid metabolism of children with eed remains uncharacterized and should be addressed in future studies.acknowledgmentsgrant support the national institutes of health r01 ag027012 r01 ey024596 r01 hl11271 the intramural research program of the national institute on aging the children's discovery institute of washington university and st. louis children's hospital and the hickey family foundation.

deoxycholic acid dca taurocholic acid tca taurochenodeoxycholic acid tcdca and ca were the next most abundant serum bile acids.

there were no significant correlations of glycine with any glycine-conjugated bile acid nor of taurine with any taurine- conjugated bile acid.discussionthis study suggests that young children with eed have alterations in bile acid metabolism.

1.serum bile acid pool composition in 313 children aged 12-59 months from rural malawi.characteristics of the study populationtable 11mean sd or 2height-for-age z-score -2.spearman correlations for age and serum bile acidstable 2serum bile acids in children with and without environmental enteric dysfunction eed adjusted for age1wilcoxon rank-sum test.

further work is needed to determine the generalizability of these findings in other study populations.keywordsafrica children malabsorption malnutritionenvironmental enteric dysfunction eed a clinically asymptomatic condition characterized by inflammation of the small bowel mucosa villous atrophy malabsorption and increased intestinal permeability is common among young children in low-income countries 1. eed is considered a major factor contributing to childhood stunting 1-3. histologic studies of eed show mucosal t-cell activation crypt hyperplasia shortening of villi and elevated mucosal proinflammatory cytokines in the small intestine 4 5. the gut microbiome in children with eed is presumed to be abnormal but has not yet been characterized 1.bile acids are essential as detergents to aid the intestinal absorption of dietary fats and fat- soluble vitamins and for signaling in a diverse set of signaling pathways that regulate nutrient metabolism 6. because of abnormalities in enterocytes low-grade inflammation and increased intestinal permeability eed could potentially affect the metabolism and enterohepatic circulation of bile acids.

the distribution of serum bile acids in the present study was somewhat different that the distribution of serum bile acids described in a healthy reference population of austrian children aged 3-5 years 19. the main difference was that malawian children had a lower proportion of tcdca comprising total serum bile acids compared with the austrian children.

the mobile phase consisted of solvent a ammonium acetate 10 mm containing 0.015 formic acid and solvent b acetonitrilemethanolwater 6.530.5 containing ammonium acetate 10 mm and 0.015 formic acid with the following gradient 0-0.5 min 35 b 0.7 min 40 b 3.0 min 45 b 3.2 min 55 b 5.5 min 65b 6.5 min 100 b 8.5 min 100 b 8.6 min 35 b 11 min 35 b. evaluation of thesamples was carried out using the metidq software.

