while the initial purpose of microglial activation is the brain's effort to protect neurons the over-activation of microglia results in deleterious inflammation increasing the probability of neuronal death -.previously it was accepted that blood brain barrier bbb prevented blood inflammatory cells monocytes and neutro- phils from entering the brain and the predominant opinion was that only microglial cells were involved in inflammation of the brain.

this activates several death-signaling proteins such as calcium-dependent proteases lipases and dnases resulting in cell death in the ischemic core .one reason for the particular susceptibility of the brain to ischemic injury is that brain tissue contains high levels of glutamate and many neurons in the brain are activated by glutamate receptors.

brain inflammation is a therapeutic target for some brain diseases such as ischemia and trauma .

microglial cells are the resident macrophages of the brain and they are highly activated after brain insult .

data from experimental models showed that lymphocytes in- filtrate the brain immediately after ischemic stroke with neu- trophils migrating into the brain parenchyma immediately af- ter the initial injury followed by macrophages and natural killer cells  -.

while the initial infiltration of immune cells into the ischemic brain exacerbates tissue damage and worsening of neurologi- cal deficits there is a subsequent beneficial effect including the release of cytokines that promote glial scar formation ac- companied by phagocytosis of cellular debris that is essential for effective wound healing .cytokines and the neuro-inflammatory responsecytokines are key players in the inflammatory mechanism and contribute stroke-related brain injury .

post-conditioning could thus be seen as a strategy for neuroprotection in the reperfused brain following stroke .conclusionischemic stroke-induced brain injury results from the interac- tion of complex pathophysiological processes such as excitotoxicity oxidative stress inflammation and apoptosis fig.

neuron 495719-733hsu cy 1998 ischemic stroke from basic mechanisms to new drug development vol 16. karger medical and scientific publishers baselboscia f gala r pignataro g et al 2006 permanent focal brain ischemia induces isoform-dependent changes in the pattern of naplusca2plus exchanger gene expression in the ischemic core periinfarct area and intact brain regions.

brain pathol 91119-131chan ph 2001 reactive oxygen radicals in signaling and dam- age in the ischemic brain.

brain res 7782265-271ooboshi h ibayashi s shichita t et al 2005 postischemic gene transfer of interleukin-10 protects against both focal and global brain ischemia.

brain res 128979-84konsman jp drukarch b van dam a-m 2007 peri vascular production and action of pro-inflammatory cytokines in brain pa- thology.

brain behav immun 245724-737kostulas n li h-l xiao b-g et al 2002 dendritic cells are present in ischemic brain after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion in the rat.

brain res 1092136-46guan q-h pei d-s zong y-y et al 2006 neuroprotection against ischemic brain injury by a small peptide inhibitor of c- jun n-terminal kinase jnk via nuclear and non-nuclear path- ways.

brain res 1017185-91truettner js suzuki t dietrich wd 2005 the effect of thera- peutic hypothermia on the expression of inflammatory response genes following moderate traumatic brain injury in the rat.

mol brain res 1382124-134lee jh wei l gu x et al 2014 therapeutic effects of pharma- cologically induced hypothermia against traumatic brain injury in mice.

