the shannon index otu richness observed numbers of otu and chao1 diversity estimator and evenness were lowest p b 0.05 in the sediment samples at gz compared with surface water at gz and sedi- ment at cz .to determine the differences in microbial community structure be-tween gz and cz in response to g. lemaneiformis cultivation dissimilar- ity test were performed using permanova adonis across different layers at both gz and cz.

lemaneiformis cultivation zone com- pared to the control zone in both water and sediment environments.seaweed-associated microbial groupssuch as arenibacter croceitalea glaciecola leucothrix and maribacter were enriched in the cultivation zone.a conceptual model is proposed to sum-marize major results in this study and guide future studies on relationships among g. lemaneiformis microbial com- munities and their environments in this cultivation ecosystem.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 5 october 2016received in revised form 25 march 2017accepted 25 march 2017available online 22 april 2017 editor d. barcelokeywordsmicrobial community compositionstructure gracilaria lemaneiformis cultivation environmental propertiesa b s t r a c t seaweed cultivation not only provides economy benefits but also remediates the environment contaminated by mariculture of animals e.g.

s3c.to demonstrate the effects of g. lemaneiformis cultivation on micro- bial community composition further analyses were performed to iden- tify the significantly changed shared otus and unique otus in the water and sediment samples at gz and cz a. of all these shared otus g. lemaneiformis cultivation caused an increase in relative abun- dances of 20 otus and a decrease of two otus in the surface water an increase of 23 otus and decrease of seven otus in the bottom water and an increase of 12 otus and a decrease of 69 otus in the sed- iment b. for those significantly increased otus at gz higher abundances of otu-10 otu-93 otu-421 otu-28 otu-164 otu-492and otu-1281 associated with genus polaribacter crocinitomixfig.

therefore it is important to understand the microbial community diversity composition struc- ture and function in g. lemaneiformis cultivation systems and their relationships with environmental changes and ecosystem function- ing .in this study we aimed to understand the impact of seaweed cultiva-tion on water and sediment microbial communities as well as microbial responses to seaweed cultivation and we hypothesized that i changes in environmental properties such as decreased nutrients and increased dissolved oxygen resulting from seaweed cultivation would shift the di- versity composition and structure of water and sediment microbial communities and ii certain microbial groups would be enriched in the seaweed cultivation ecosystem.

gws surface water of gz gwb bottom water of gz cws surface water of cz cwb bottom water of cz gs sediment of gz cs sediment of cz.

gws surface water of gz gwb bottom water of gz gs sediment of gz cws surface water of cz cwb bottom water of cz cs sediment of cz.litorimonas arenibacter or maribacter were observed.

in surface and bottom water the relative abundance of significantly changed otus increased at gz by 89.9 and 72 respectively a b. the relative abundance of significantly changed otus in sediment decreased by 84.5 at gz c.the phylogenetic tree revealed the characteristics and distribution patterns of dominant microbial groups relative abundance n 1 in the water column and sediment at both zones using the neighbor- joining method of mega 5. in the surface water otus belonging to aestuariibacter crocinitomix polaribacter tenacibaculum unclassified- flavobacteriaceae and unclassified-microbacteriaceae exhibited higher abundances p b 0.05 at gz than at cz .

generally the nutrient concentrations were lower and ph and do were higher at gz compared to cz which indicated a better water quality at gz due to g. lemaneiformis cultivation.

such a divergence in abundant genera could be ex- plained by different environmental properties such as lower nutrientsand higher algal polysaccharide at gz implying a healthier community composition at the seaweed cultivation zone.with the respect to those enriched otus at gz their affiliated micro- organisms were isolated from seaweed or have the ability to digest algal polysaccharides of seaweed such as genera polaribacter crocinitomix  litorimonas  arenibacter and maribacter .

three sites each were chosen from a sea- weed cultivation zone gz the g. lemaneiformis cultivation zone 117deg07'05''e 23deg28'05''n and a natural sea area cz control zone 117deg05'33''e 23deg29'17''n for this study fig.

among 2705 otus detected from 12 water samples 1472 54.4 were shared by gz and cz and 1233 unique otus were detected with 639 otus at gz 23.6 and 594 otus at cz 22.0. also 1941 otus were generated for 6 sediment samples and among those 216 otus 11.1 were unique to gs 873 otus 45.0 were unique to cs and 852 otus 43.9 were shared.

in the sediment the domi- nant phyla at both zones were bacteroidetes g-proteobacteria and e-proteobacteria and lower p b 0.05 abundances of chloroflexi were ob- served at gz compared to cz.at the genus level higher abundances of aestuariibacter crocinitomix leucothrix and tenacibaculum were observed in the surface water at gz p b 0.05 than those at cz fig.

different letters a b represent significant differences p b 0.05 in mean value between gz and cz by anova.table 2 dissimilarity tests of microbial communities of surface water bottom water and sediment between gz and cz by adonis.

the otus in sediment affiliated with arenibacter glaciecola leisingera sulfitobacter and peredibacter had higher abundance p b 0.05 at gz than at cz while lower abundant otus in sediment were associated with desulfobulbus thiohalomonas and unclassified-gammaproteobacteria at gz compared to cz fig.

lemaneiformis cultivation on microbial community composition at the otu level revealing significant changes in surface water bottom water and sediment at gz.

