kr911839 and meiothermus cerbereus kr911844 obtained by the rflp both with identity values of 96-99.bacterial composition of the bacteriomes and reproductive organs of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica at the genusspecies level sequence frequencies 1. abbreviations pfb the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi pmb the bacteriomes of male p. kaempferi po the ovaries of p. kaempfer pt the testes of p. kaempferi mfb the bacteriomes of female m. mongolica mmb the bacteriomes of male m. mongolica mo the ovaries of m. mongolica mt the testes of m. mongolica.

abbreviations pfb the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi pmb the bacteriomes of male p. kaempferi po the ovaries of p. kaempfer pt the testes of p. kaempferi mfb the bacteriomes of female m. mongolica mmb the bacteriomes of male m. mongolica mo the ovaries of m. mongolica mt the testes of m. mongolica.bacterial composition of the bacteriomes and reproductive organs in p. kaempferi and m. mongolica at the phylum level.

abbreviations pfb the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi pmb the bacteriomes of male p. kaempferi po the ovaries of p. kaempfer pt the testes of p. kaempferi mfb the bacteriomes of female m. mongolica mmb the bacteriomes of male m. mongolica mo the ovaries of m. mongolica mt the testes of m. mongolica.discussioncomparison of 16s rrna rflp and high-throughput sequencingin this study we detected more bacterial species in the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi andm.

abbreviations pfb the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi pmb the bacteriomes of male p. kaempferi po the ovaries of p. kaempfer mfb the bacteriomes of female m. mongolica mmb the bacteriomes of male m. mongolica mo the ovaries of m. mongolica.bacterial composition of bacteriomes and reproductive organs of p. kaempferi based on the illumina sequencing datathe identified sequences of p. kaempferi are distributed across 12 assigned bacterial phyla two archaebacteria phyla and a large number of unassigned phyla .

abbreviations pfb the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi pmb the bacteriomes of male p. kaempferi po the ovaries of p. kaempfer pt the testes of p. kaempferi mfb the bacteriomes of female m. mongolica mmb the bacteriomes of male m. mongolica mo the ovaries of m. mongolica mt the testes of m. mongolica.

the bacterial diversity of bacteriomes of both sexes ovaries and testes of p. kaempferi is higher than that of corresponding tissues of m. mongolica and  but the bacterial diversity of bacteriomes of p. kaempferi is significantly higher than that of m. mongolica p0.05 .based on the chao 1 index the bacterial richness of ovaries and testes of p. kaempferi is higher than that of bacteriomes of the same gender and the bacterial richness of testes is signif- icantly higher than that of bacteriomes of both sexes p 0.05 and .

ncbi blast results for the 16s rrna-rflp sequences of the representative clones isolated from the bacteriomes of female m. mongolica.constructed using sequences of the four clones of the novel rhizobiales bacterium obtained in this study and other known sequences of rhizobiales from genbank confirmed that this novel rhizobiales bacterium is closely related with h. cicadicola .bacterial composition of the bacteriomes-clone libraries of female p. kaempferi and m. mongolica at the phylum level.rarefaction analyses of 16s rrna gene libraries constructed from the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi and m. mongolica.localization of dominant bacteria in different tissues detected by diagnostic pcrour diagnostic pcr performed on different tissues of p. kaempferi shows that 1 both s. muel- leri kr911848 and the novel rhizobiales bacterium kr911840-kr911843 are found in the bacteriomes of both sexes and in the ovaries 2 s. muelleri is also found in the testes and the filter chamber  conical segment of the alimentary canal and 3 rickettsia sp.

the mean read length of the 16s diversity indices of the 16s rrna gene clone libraries constructed from the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi and m. mongolica 95 confidence interval.the ml phylogenetic tree based on bacterial 16s rrna gene sequences obtained from the bacteriomes of female p. kaempferi and m. mongolica including selected database sequences.

sample information sequence abundance and bacterial diversity of bacteriomes and reproductive organs of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica.venn diagrams showing otus shared among different tissues of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica.

pf female p. kaempferi pm male p. kaempferi mf female m. mongolica mm male m. mongolica.

pf female p. kaempferi pm male p. kaempferi mf female m. mongolica mm male m. mongolica.

three replicate samples were taken for each tissue.each sample of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica individuals was treated with lysozyme and incubated for 24 h and total genomic dna of all samples were respectively extracted with the dneasy blood and tissue kit tiangen inc. according to the manufacturer's instructions.dna extracts were stored at -20c until further analysis.rflp analysisthe dna samples from bacteriomes of females of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica were ampli- fied by pcr using the universal primers 27f 50-agagtttgatcctggctcag-30 and 1492r 50-ggttaccttgttacgactt-30 .

kr911850 obtained by the rflp respectively all with identity values of 96- 99.bacterial diversity of bacteriomes and reproductive organs based on the illumina dataa bioinformatic analysis was applied to evaluate the alpha-diversity shannon simpson chao 1 and ace indices and beta-diversity of bacterial communities of all samples of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica.according to the shannon index the bacterial diversity shows no difference among the investigated tissues of p. kaempferi and .

we aim to address the following questions 1 what are the composition and diversity of bacterial communities in the bacter- iomes and reproductive organs of these two cicada species 2 does h. cicadicola co-exist withmuelleri in these two cicada species 3 do cicada species sexes and tissues have any influ- ence on the bacterial community composition and diversity 4 what differences can be revealed between the bacterial communities investigated by using different research methodsresultsbacterial composition of bacteriomes of female cicadas analyzed by rflpin the bacteriome-clone libraries of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica 200 and 198 positive clones were selected and digested with afa i and hha i restriction endonucleases respectively.

thus the two cicada species contain significantly diverse bacterial communities.conclusionin conclusion despite the types of technologies used in detecting bacterial communities our study mainly provides qualitative results of bacterial community composition and diversity in the bacteriomes and reproductive organs of p. kaempferi and m. mongolica.

