the data set examining cross-infectivity assessed infection experimentally with laboratory cultures while other two data sets culture and single-cell coinfection used sequence data to infer infection.the first data set on cross-infectivity potential coinfection is composed of bacteriophage host-range infection matrices documenting the results of experimental attempts at lytic infec- tion in cultured phage and hosts .

the host-range infec- tion data are matrices of infection success or failure via the 'spot test' briefly a drop of phage lysate is 'spotted' on a bacte- rial lawn and lysing of bacteria is noted as presence or absence.this data set represents studies with varying sample composi- tions in terms of bacteria and phage species bacterial energy sources source of samples bacterial association and isolation habitat.the second data set on culture coinfection is derived from viral sequence information mined from published microbial genome sequence data on national center for biotechnology information's ncbi databases .

ongoing lytic infections.a list and description of data sources are included in supplementary table s1 and the raw data used in this paper are deposited in the figshare data repository factors explaining cross-infectivity and coinfectionto test the factors that potentially influence coinfection-- ecology host taxonomyphylogeny host defense mechanisms and virus-virus interactions--i conducted regression analyses on each of the three data sets representing an increasingly fine scale analysis of coinfection from cross-infectivity to culture coinfection and finally to single-cell coinfection.

in this study this concern can be addressed by noting that not all the sequencing data in the culture coinfection data set was gener- ated by high-throughput sequencing the prevalence of host coinfections containing ssdna viruses was virtually identical within 0.63 to the detectability of ssdna viruses in the over- all data set and the prevalence of ssdna viruses in this data set 6 is in line with validated unbiased estimates of ssdna virus prevalence from natural marine habitats  .

details the data used to test each of the factors that potentially influence coinfection and details on the analysis of each data set are provided in turn below.first to test the potential influence of these factors on cross- infectivity i conducted a factorial analysis of variance anova on the cross-infectivity data set.

data and code for analyses and figures are available in the figshare data repository .resultshost ecology and virus-virus interactions consistently explain variation in potential cross- infectivity culture and single-cell coinfectionto test the factors that influence viral coinfection of microbes i conducted regression analyses on each of the three data sets cross-infectivity culture coinfection and single cellcoinfection.

the data set is composed of viral infections detected using sequence data n 14 12498 in all bacterial and archaeal hosts n 14 5492 with sequenced genomes in the national center for biotechnology information's ncbi databases supplemented with data on host habitat and energy source collected primarily from the joint genome institute's genomes online database jgi-gold.

from new york university supported this work.data availabilitya list and description of data sources are included in supplementary table s1 and the raw data and code used in this paper are deposited in the figshare data repository 929.conflict of interest none declared.referencesabrahams m. r. et al.

at the culture coinfection scale a study mining sequence data to examine virus-host relation- ships uncovered widespread coinfection in publicly available bacterial and archaeal genome sequence data .

thus detailed molecular studies of coinfection dynamics and virome sequence data are generating questions ripe for testing across diverse taxa and environments.here i employ virus-host interaction data sets to date to pro- vide a broad comprehensive picture of the ecological and bio- logical factors shaping coinfection.

these data are composed of three data sets that provide an increasingly fine-grained examination of coinfection from cross-infectivity potential coinfection to coinfection at the culture pure cultures or single colonies not necessarily single cells and single-cell levels.

additionally i entered new metadata ecosystem and ecosystem category to match the culture coin- fection data set see description below to enable comparisons between these two multi-taxon data sets.

the data sets represent three distinct phenomena related to coinfection and thus the variables and data in each one are necessarily differ- ent.

ecological factors and bacterial taxonomy were tested in alltable 2. factors explaining coinfection tested with each of the three data sets and specific variable tested.data sets but virus-virus interactions for example were not evaluated in the cross-infectivity data set because they do not apply i.e.

anova on the arc-sine transform of the proportions and a binomial regression provided qualitatively similar results data not shown see associated code in figshare repository second to test the factors influencing culture coinfection iconducted a negative binomial regression on the culture coin- fection data set.

