the dysbiotic profile of pcs subgingival microbiota compared with ctrl was characterized by significant increase of desulfobulbus sphaerochaeta and unclassified genera of mogibacteriaceaeaand tissierellaceae andsignificantdecrease of pedobacter granulicatella paracoccus gemellaceae clostridiaceae ruminococcaceae sphingomonadaceae pseudomonadaceae xanthomondaceae and an unclassi- fied genus of s24-7 table i. notably pseudoramibacter was significantly more abundant in both pcs and pcnos compared with ctrl table i. finally bacteroides prev otella veillonella pseudomonas and unclassified genera of enterobacteriaceae rikenellaceae lachnospiraceae and clostridiales were significantly less abundant or even absent in the pcs and pcnos groups compared with the ctrl group table i.predictive subgingival microbiota functions in chronic peri- odontitis patients.

the selected patients were then divided into three groups i 8 non-smoker periodontally healthy patients affected by dysodontiasis of mandibular third molar 3 males and 5 females acting as controls ctrls ii 6 non-smoker patients affected by chronic moderate to severe periodon- titis 1 male and 5 females termed here pcnos and iii 6 smokers affected by chronic moderate to severe periodontitis 2 males and 4 females termed here pcs.

among periodontitis patients the samples were classified into 2 groups samples from smoker patients with chronic periodontitis pcs and samples from non-smoker patients with chronic periodontitis pcnos.

due to the high precision and sensitivity of the 16s rrna sequencing method analysis for low-abundant genera including pedobacter granulicatella paracoccus atopobium bifidobacterium coprococcus oridobacteriu peptococcus oscillospira and akkermansia was feasiblecorrespondence to dr francesca lembo department of pharmacy university of naples federico ii 49 via d. montesano i-80131 naples italye-maildr lorenzo chiariotti institute of experimental endocrinology and oncology national research council 5 via s. pansini i-80131 naples italye-mailkey words subgingival microbiota 16s rrna gene next generation sequencing chronic periodontitis smoker and non-smoker subgingival microbiota profiles key phylotypes of chronic periodontitisand revealed novel phylotypes associated with periodontitis.of note a major microbial community alteration was evident in smoker patients suggesting an association between smoking and severity of subgingival dysbiosis.

according to these results predictive functional analysis designated pcssubgingival microbiota as potentially able to promote tissue damage more so than the pcnos microbiota.although the present study reports a detailed description of periodontitis-associated subgingival microbiota further studies involving larger cohorts and considering potential gender differences would enhance our knowledge about the role of subgingival dysbiosis and smoking in periodontal2014coretti et al subgingival dysbiosis in chronic periodontitis patientsdisease.

in the present study 16s rrna sequencing was employed to assess the subgingival microbiota in 6 smoker patients with chronic peri- odontitis 6 non-smoker patients with chronic periodontitis and 8 healthy controls.

the different subgingival microbiota compositions in 8 ctrls 6 pcs and 6 pcnos patients were studied by high-throughput sequencing of the16s rdna v3-v4 hypervariable region on an illumina miseq platform.

1c.description of subgingival microbiota in pcs and pcnos patients compared with ctrl identification of key phylo- types.

although parvimonans normally inhabits the oral cavity it has been isolated in high numbers in periodontitis patients and is associated with destruction ofperiodontal tissue 33. desulfubulbus and paludibacter have also previously been associated with periodontitis 34 and high concentrations have been linked to worse periodontal therapeutic response 35. in the present study identification of desulfobulbus and paludibacter was increased in pcs samples compared with pcnos and ctrls corroborating the hypothesis that smoking interferes with microbiota composi- tion during periodontal disease.

notably genes associated with tissue damage were increased in pcs patients while genes associated with amino acid metabolism and nutrient biosynthesis were reduced in pcs patients compared with ctrls.although the pcs and pcnos groups both exhibited a shift in subgingival bacterial composition compared with healthy subjects several results highlight a major alteration in pcsmolecular medicine reports 15 2007-2014 20172013figure 3. predicted functional changes in the subgingival microbiome.

the present study confirmed that chronic periodontitis is a polymicrobial disease where changes in the equilibrium of subgingival microbiota contribute to severity of pathology.introductionthe oral cavity is an ideal environment for microbial growth with the oral microbiota comprising of a large variety of species at high densities.

it is well established that an equili- brated microbiota contributes to a healthy status for the host 1. conversely changes in the balance between different bacterial species that inhabit the human body contribute to the pathogen- esis of several diseases 2. an alteration in the composition of subgingival microbiota is one of the most common causes of periodontal disease 3. periodontitis is a microbial infection that manifests with inflammation of gingival tissue 4. bacteria especially gram-negative species invade the supporting structures of teeth forming subgingival oral biofilms in which pro-inflammatory molecules are released.

despite previous studies demonstrating that the onset and the progression of periodontitis may be compounded by smoking 12 analysis of the microbiota based on culture techniques has revealed conflicting results 1314. only 200 bacterial species that inhabit the oral cavity have been cultured however 600 species have been identified by 16s rdna sequencing 15. in the present study a metagenomic analysis using high coverage next generation sequencing ngs was performed in order to define the microbiota composition with high precision.

high relative abundance of parvimonans desulfubulbus paludiba cter haemophilus and sphaerochaeta genera characterized subgingival microbiota of periodontitis patients both smokers and non-smokers.

the affected tissues bone gingiva and periodontal ligament suffer damage the extent of which depends on the different immune responses of each individual 5 indicating that periodontitis may manifest concurrently with other systemic diseases 6. based on the severity of the phenotype two forms of periodontitis are identified chronic periodontitis that affects up of 50 of the global population with a slow rate of progression and aggressive periodontitis with a rapid loss of attachment and bone destruction 7. although the oral microbiota is different in each patient several studies have demonstrated that three principal bacteria are frequently identified in the dental plaque of patients with periodontitis classified as the 'red complex' organisms tannerella forsythia porphyromonas gingivalis and treponema denticola 8. these gram-negative bacteria are involved in the etiopathogenesis of periodontitis most likely due to their production of various virulence factors including collagenase protease and endotoxin.

