p  0.05 was considered statistically significant.ResultsBacterial CFU in lung tissuesTo confirm the successful establishment of the acute lung infection mouse models the bacterial burdens in harvested lung tissues were estimated.

Additionally the number of CFU in the S. mitis group did not differ from that in the PBS control group p  0.05.Histological observation of lung tissues from acute lung infection mouse modelsWild-type mice had severe lung damage after P. aerugi- nosa challenge Fig.

Through ligand binding TLR4 recruits signaling adap- tors and initiates signaling cascades which results in the activation of nuclear factor NF-kB and the release of inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin IL-6 and tumor necrosis factor TNF-a Moreover air- way epithelial cells are believed to contribute to the in- flammatory response in the lung and TLR4 has been widely detected on the surface of airway epithelial cells as well as cells of the myeloid lineage such as macro- phages and neutrophils  Some studies have re- ported that TLR4-deficient mice show increased lung inflammation and higher bacterial load and TLR4 sig- naling may have a critical function in the fine tuning of inflammation during chronic mycobacterial infec- tion .

After acute lung infection mouse models were established lung bacteriological and histo- pathological examinations were performed and total cell counts and levels of related cytokines in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid BALF were determined.MethodsBacteria and growth conditionsP.

Additionally another 20 wild-type mice were subjected to the same treatments and used to esti- mate the bacterial burden in order to confirm suc- cessful establishment of the acute lung infection mouse models.The mouse models of acute lung infection were estab- lished as previously described with some modifications Briefly mice were anesthetized with an intraperito- neal injection of chloral hydrate 0.02 mLg before tracheotomy.

Notably in the PAO1  S. mitis group moderate lung inflammation was observed with recruitment of inflammatory cells in the peribronchialTable 1 Bacterial counts in lung tissues of wild-type micePBSPAO1S.

In our previous research we found that wild-type mice as well as TLR4-deficient mice infected with an S. mitis strain for 48 h showed little change in pulmonary lesions sup- porting the common notion that S. mitis is a normal commensal bacteria in the human oropharynx -In the present study we observed more severe inflam- mation in lung tissues accompanied with infiltration of more inflammatory cells in the PAO1  S. mitis group compared with the S. mitis group and PBS control group but less severe lung inflammation in comparison with that in the PAO1 group.

found that S. mitis produced and released a tenovin 6-like mol- ecule that induced growth inhibition and coccoid con- version of Helicobacter pylori cells Moreover recent discoveries regarding the pathogenesis of VAP has found an interesting phenomenon in which autoinducer-2 pro- duced by S. mitis can act as an important molecule to promote P. aeruginosa biofilm formation and to increase proinflammatory cytokine secretion in endotracheal in- tubation rat models Given that S. mitis is the most abundant bacteria of the normal human oral flora and rarely causes diseases we questioned whether S. mitis could also modulate the pathogenicity of P. aeruginosa in acute lung infection.

If so how does this co-existence impact the immune system of the host and what is the possible mechanism in acute lung infectionc The Authors.

Therefore we hypothesized that TLR4 sig- naling might participate in the response to acute lung infection.Based on our previous findings that P. aeruginosa andS.

