this conclusion is in line with the ability of foxp3 itself to antagonize runx activity and notably restrain runx-mediated expression of il-2 and ifn-g 75. indeed runx activity is critical in tregs as demonstrated by treg-specificdisruption of cbfb an obligate runx cofactor 62 63. accord- ingly foxp3yfp-cre-mediated disruption of thpok lrf and cbfb failed to generate functional tregs a.c. carpenter and r. bosselut unpublished observations.although additional investigations will be needed to gain a full mechanistic understanding of the functions of thpok and lrf in tregs our findings indicate that these factors redundantly pro- mote treg survival and they suggest that they are especially important for the homeostasis of effector tregs a subset whose importance is increasingly appreciated 76-78. effector tregs express transcription factors including t-bet batf and rora that in conventional th cells direct expression of inflammatory cytokines but they do not express the corresponding cytokines e.g.

3c this indi- cated that the impact of thpok and lrf on tregs is not mediated by their effect on cd4 expression and thereby mhc-ii-induced tcr signaling 43 44.effect of thpok and lrf on treg stabilityit was reported that environmental cues in the small intestine at the interface of the epithelial layer and of the lamina propria silp the main site of immune activity at steady-state repress thpok resulting in foxp3 silencing and conversion of foxp3cd4 tregs into foxp32 cd4cd8acd8b2 ex treg intraepithelial lymphocytes iels 20 accordingly inducible thpok disruption resulted in the generation of foxp32cd4cd8 ex tregs 20. thus we examined the impact of thpok and lrf on foxp3 expression.

thus thpok and lrf redundantly support the cd4cd82 expression pattern of tregs as they do for conventional cd4 t cells 16 42.thpok and lrf affect treg functions independently of runx3 repressionin thymocytes and conventional t cells thpok acts by inhibiting the expression and function of the transcription factor runx3 16 39 42. dko tregs had increased levels of runx3 but not of its homolog runx1 which is expressed in wild-type tregs fig.

71 72. our study supports the conclusion that the main function of thpok and lrf in postthymic tregs is to support foxp3-mediated gene expression rather than to maintain expression of foxp3 itself.this conclusion appears at odds with our observation and a previous report 20 that thpok contributes to stabilize foxp3 expression with little functional overlap with lrf.

8. thus thpok and lrf are important for foxp3-induced expression of treg-specific genes.in summary we demonstrate that the transcription factor thpok is needed for the thymic differentiation of tregs and redundantly with its homolog lrf for treg-mediated immune homeostasis.figure 6. impact of thpok and lrf on treg gene expression.

whereas in conventional cd4 t cells thpok inhibits the expression of cytotoxic genes 17 27 many of these genes including that for granzyme b are normally expressed in tregs despite thpok expression 73 74. conversely whereas thpok promotes ex- pression of genes typical of helper differentiation in conven- tional cd4 t cells including cd40lg s1pr1 and btla 17 these genes are not affected by inactivation of thpok and lrf in tregs.

7d unlike in the previous study 20. ad- ditionally it is possible that compensatory mechanisms maintain treg numbers at steady-state despite thpok disruption but not after acute induced deletion 20. collectively we conclude from these findings that thpok and lrf contribute to the differentiation or competitive fitness of effector tregs.to independently document the impact of thpok and lrf on treg-specific gene expression we examined whether these factors are needed to allow foxp3-induced expression of cd25 and nrp1 two genes characteristic of tregs 13 55 56 and underexpressed in dko cells fig.

even in the gut mucosal environ- ment thpok is dispensable for the prevention of intestinal inflam- mation in a model of ag-induced colitis 20. of note disruption of the foxp3 cns2 cis-regulatory element which destabilizes foxp3 expression but does not affect the function of remaining foxp3 tregs has a much milder impact on immune homeostasis than does disruption of thpok and lrf 45 46.the functions of thpok and lrf in tregs differ in three important respects from those in conventional cd4 t cells.

unexpectedly this was not the case as the requirement for thpok is not relieved by enforced expression of cd4.given the role of thpok in stabilizing foxp3 expression in in- testinal tregs 20 it is possible that thpok contributes to foxp3 expression in thymocytes.

it was possible that dis- ruption of thpok and lrf resulted in an all-or-none foxp3 silencing while having no impact on foxp3 expression levels in cells that continue to express this gene such binary shutdown has previ- ously been observed in mice lacking the foxp3 cns2 cis-regulatory element 45 46. because thpok represses cd8 expression foxp3 silencing caused by thpok disruption would be accompanied byfigure 3. runx3-independent impact of thpok and lrf on treg function.

ctrl control.both factors act in tregs by supporting foxp3-directed gene ex- pression notably by enabling expression of il-2-dependent genes and the development of effector treg populations.discussionin this study we report that overlapping functions of the tran- scription factors thpok and lrf are critical for the differentiationand homeostasis of foxp3 tregs as shown by the severe breach of tolerance resulting from their treg-specific disruption.

f expression of intracellular lrf in foxp32 top and foxp3 bottom cd4 spleen t cells from lrf ko lrfflfl foxp3yfp-cre plain line and control lrf foxp3yfp-cre gray-shaded male mice.

we compared yfp dko tregs with 1 cd25yfp2 animal control cells obtained from the same female mice as the yfp tregs but expressing the foxp3 allele and 2 yfp tregs from foxp3yfp-cre thpok lrf female mice genetic controls which express the foxp3yfp-cre allele.

thus the impact of thpok on treg differentiation is not mediated solely by its effect on cd4 expression.thpok and lrf redundantly promote treg homeostasisalthough these results demonstrated the importance of thpok for treg development cd4-cre disruption could not address whether thpok was needed in postthymic tregs because thpok is essential for conventional cd4 t cell function 17 18 41. to overcome this obstacle we generated thpokflfl mice carrying a foxp3yfp-cre knockin allele thpok ko mice which delete thpok in treg but not conventional t cells 24. additionally because lrf is ex- pressed in tregs fig.

this prompted us to consider ad- ditional functions of thpok and lrf in tregs.thpok and lrf promote treg survivalthe reduced numbers of tregs in dko mice suggested that thpok and lrf supported treg survival.

