in one study histo- logical analysis of clinical samples wounds found that 60 of chronic wound specimens were charac- terized as containing bacterial biofilms compared to 6 of acute wound specimens 9. using animal models studies have shown that wounds inoculated with bacteria form biofilms 10 11 and wounds with a biofilm demonstrate delayed healing 12 13. furthermore when clinical chronic wound micro- biota were transferred to wounded mice the mouse wounds became chronic 14. finally clinical chronic wounds treated with a biofilm-based wound care strategy demonstrated improved healing com- pared to a previously published study with no bio- film-based strategy 7.chronic wound biofilms are characterized as sup- porting a diverse microbial flora.

finally molecular analysis of chronic wounds of 2963 patients found similarity in the number of distinct bacterial species across each chronic wound type and that the peak number of different species per wound was between two and five species 17.despite the prevalence of biofilms in wounds and their apparent contribution to woundchronicity investigators are just beginning to eluci- date the role of biofilms in chronic wound patho- genesis.

the authors noted that after 5 h of incubation biofilms had formed on specimens inoculated with s. aureus and by 10-h biofilms had formed on specimensinoculated with p. aeruginosa 39. by 24 h bio- films of either species were adherent to epidermal aspect of the graftskin along the wound bed and adjacent to the wound.

investigations started with one host cell-type and single species biofilms and demonstrated that biofilms or their secretions had deleterious effects on wound-healing cells.

p. aeruginosa biofilms also impacted ker- atinocyte migration and proliferation coalesced and adhered to epidermal structures and multiplied in dermal matrices.more complex systems involved the use of multi- ple host celltissue types and single species biofilms.

published by john wiley  sons ltd. doi 10.1111apm.12678review articlein vitro studies evaluating the effects of biofilms on wound-healing cells a reviewkelly r. kirker and garth a. jamescenter for biofilm engineering montana state university bozeman mt usathe process of normal cutaneous wound healing is a complex and orderly sequence of events that involves a variety of cell types and subcellular sig- nals.

bacteria that colonize the open wound bed form surface-attached multicellular communities called biofilms.

biofilms are microbial aggregates surrounded by a self-produced extracellular polysaccharide matrix eps.

investigators have had to simplify the complex wound environment and the intent of this review is to describe current in vitro methods used to elucidate the fundamental effects of biofilms on the cell types involved in wound healing.

this review is divided into three sections investigations exploring the effects of biofilms on 1 the epidermis and its main cell type the keratinocyte 2 the der- mis and its main cell type the fibroblast and 3 the skin structure as a whole using skin substitute- like matrices.epidermal investigationskeratinocytes are the major cell type of the epider- mis.

biofilms were grown from methicillin-resis- tant staphylococcus aureus mrsa that was iso- lated from a clinical chronic wound.

the biofilms were grown on tissue culture inserts and then placed in culture with a monolayer of primary human keratinocytes hk fig.

this was the first investigation to describe the effect of bacterial biofilms on hk fig.

21 found that s. aureus biofilms also significantly affect keratinocyte cytokine produc- tion.

thedusp1 gene may be involved in the negative regu- lation of cell proliferation as well as the cellular response to stress 23. both investigations demon- strated that keratinocytes both primary and the hacat cell line have a prompt inflammatory response to bcm.another method of examining the effects of bio- films on keratinocytes is to grow biofilms directly on whole epithelial structures.

