however significant differences were observed in the incidence of fcv between control and fcgs p  0.010 and between forl and fcgs p  0.006. it is concluded that although fcv may be associated with fcgs it appears unlikely to play a role in forl.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.feline odontoclastic resorptive lesion forl and feline chronic gingivostomatitis fcgs are two of the most common oro-dental dis- eases of cats.

in this study we compared the in- cidence of feline calicivirus fcv infection in cats with forl fcgs and unaffected controls in order to determine whether fcv could be one of the initiating causes of forl.a total of 90 cats were recruited to the study from the nestle purina petcare facility st. joseph mo usa 40 cats with forl 25 cats with fcgs and 25 unaffected control cats with no signs of oral disease.

fisher's exact test indicated statistically significant differences in their fcv sta- tus between the three groups p b 0.05 and principally between the forl and fcgs groups p b 0.05.our data confirms earlier studies which show a strong association of fcv with fcgs.

the incidence of fcv was as follows 6 24.0 of 24 control cats 9 22.5 of 40 cats with forl and 15 60.0 of 25 cats with fcgs were positive for fcv.

of the 40 forl cats only 9 22.5 were positive for fcv while in the fcgs group 15 60.0 cats were positive for fcv .

however when the control group was compared with the fcgs group a significant difference in the incidence of fcv was observed p  0.010 and when forl was compared with fcgs a significant dif- ference was also observed p  0.006 .

showed that fcv shedding in a cat with fcgs ceased following an 11-month treatment regime to treat fcgs with thalidomide and lactoferrin.

feline calicivirus fcv has been associated with the presence of fcgs and is thought to play a role in the initiation of this disease.

in this study the incidence of fcv was investigated in cats with forl and fcgs and compared to unaffected con- trols.

due tothe mixture of breeds within the fcgs group the fisher's exact test in- dicated a significant difference in the breeds of cats included in the study groups p  0.010. however this was unlikely to have impacted on the study since the proportion of fcv positive scottish fold cats was two out of four tested compared with 13 out of 21 shorthair cats tested.

despite the apparent discrepancy in gender distribution there were no significant differences between the control forl and fcgs groups.of the 25 unaffected control cats 6 24.0 cats were positive for fcv.

1. incidence of fcv in cats with forl fcgs and unaffected controls.

shaded bars represent the number of cats within each group that were positive for fcv the unshaded bars represent the number of cats within each group that were negative for fcv.

statistically significant differences in the presence of fcv in cats are indicated by the bars spanning the respective groups.all the groups p  0.003. there was no significant difference between the control group and the forl group with regard to the incidence of fcv.

fcv rna was detected in 17 40.5 of 42 cats with fcgs but in none of 19 healthy controls .

