sudden drops in temperature prior to harvest.regression treesregression trees confirmed time of harvest was the most important factor for explaining the observed variability insalmonella proliferation followed by tomato ripeness with a relative importance of 30e40 of that of harvest time while none of the experimentally imposed variables had a visible effect appendix 3. climate variables were included in the model to explain the apparent associations between time of harvest and salmonella proliferation.

humidity-related factors emerged as the most important factors e. in all three experiments high relative humidity the week prior to harvest was consistently associated with less salmonella proliferation with the breakpoint at 77e80 rh and explaining 1.3e1.9 log10 units of proliferation dif- ferential.

rainfall was of importance in the irrigation experiment whereas a dew point huai huai huai 15 oc was associated with less proliferation in the nitrogenpo-tassium experiment and a dew point 23 oc was associated with less proliferation in the ironcopper experiment.

ehigh relative humidity pre-harvest reduces post-harvest proliferation of salmonella in tomatoesbrecht devleesschauwer    massimiliano marvasi   mihai c. giurcanu  george j. hochmuth  niko speybroeck  arie h. havelaar  max teplitski a department of public health and surveillance scientific institute of public health wiv-isp brussels belgiumb emerging pathogens institute institute for sustainable food systems and department of animal sciences university of florida gainesville fl usac department of natural science middlesex university london london ukd soil and water science department genetics institute university of florida-institute of food and agricultural sciences ifas gainesville fl usae department of public health sciences university of chicago il usaf institute of health and society irss universit'e catholique de louvain brussels belgiuma r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 4 november 2016accepted 4 april 2017available online 6 april 2017keywords climate food safetyhuman pathogensplant-pathogen interactions producea b s t r a c t outbreaks of human illness caused by enteric pathogens such as salmonella are increasingly linked to the consumption of fruits and vegetables.

knowledge on the factors affecting salmonella proliferation on fresh produce therefore becomes increasingly important to safeguard public health.

previous experi- ments showed a limited impact of pre-harvest production practices on salmonella proliferation on to- matoes but suggested a significant effect of harvest time.

across all datasets regression trees confirmed the dominant effect of harvest time on salmonella proliferation with humidity-related factors emerging as the most important underlying climatic factors.

high relative humidity the week prior to harvest was consistently associated with lower salmonella proliferation.

a controlled lab experiment confirmed that tomatoes containing their native epimicrobiota supported significantly lower salmonella proliferation when incubated at higher humidity prior to inoculation.

knowledge on the factors affecting salmonella proliferation on fresh produce therefore becomes increasingly important to safe- guard public health.

different factors may contribute to salmonella proliferation on fresh produce including environmental conditions such as regional differences climate pre- and post-harvest production factors and genotype and physiological states of the crop and the pathogen .

recently field experiments were carried out to determine the effects of the irrigation regime  nitrogen and potassium fertilization   and iron and copper supplementation on the sus- ceptibility of tomatoes to post-harvest proliferation of salmonella.

these studies confirmed the complex multifactorial nature of sal- monella proliferation as evidenced by significant three-way in- teractions between production practices time of harvest crop genotype and maturity and salmonella strain.

furthermore they suggested that time of harvest may have a dominant effect on salmonella proliferation.

proliferation was calculated by dividing the total cfu recovered from each tomato by the total cfu inoculated into each fruit.

