2008. the excessive supply of nutrients in the artificial media often selects for fast- growing fungi and bacteria and to address this problem in soil a simulated environment that mimics the natural soil environment called the soil slurry membrane system ssms was developed ferrari et al.

the measured soil environmental and microphysical factors of chlorine phosphate aspect and elevation were found to be significant drivers of the bacterial community while none of the soil parameters analyzed were significantly correlated to the fungal community.

2011. most recently analysis of environmental drivers of polar soil diversity and structure across the poles showed bacterial and fungal communities are driven primarily by soil fertility and ph siciliano et al.

the soil samples 1 kg were taken from top 10 cm of the soil profile aseptically sieved and stored at -80c until analyzed.

samples were taken from a number of different frost boils and all frost boils that were sampled from were given arbitrary number from 1 to 42.physical and chemical analysis of soil samplescomprehensive physical and chemical properties of all 18 soil samples were obtained using standard approaches van dorst et al.

briefly approximately 3-5 g of soil was placed into a sterile tissue culture insert tci merck millipore ma usa and the soil slurry was prepared by adding a few drops of water into the tci and mixing well using a vortex.

2014 a representative gdna extract from each replicate was sent for barcode tagwas quantified using quanti-ittm picogreenordsdna reagentpyrosequencing to an external facility mr dna molecularinvitrogen paisley uk following manufacturer's instructions and stored at -20c until used.recovery of total genomic dna from soilgenomic dna was extracted in triplicate from the soil samplestmusing the mp fastdnaspin kit for soil mp biomedicalsnsw australia as described van dorst et al.

2008.comparison of otus recovered using different methodsto compare the otus recovered using traditional cultivation and the ssms from soil samples the bacterial and fungal otus recovered using both cultivation methods were combined with the otus identified from total soil community sequencing.

pyrosequencing data for the soil is available at .resultsmicrobial diversity of browning peninsula soila total of 57893 16s rrna and 62547 its quality checked bacterial and fungal reads were recovered after processing the raw datasets from total soil gdna.

there was a 2-fold decrease in the total relative abundance of bacteroidetes and 6-fold decrease in thetotal relative abundance of gemmatimonadetes.within actinobacteria while the relative abundance was similar between the soil and ssms enrichments large shifts in the recovered community were observed at the genus level figure 2. for example unclassified gaiellaceae the dominant genera in browning soil attributing 19 of total relative abundance was replaced by microbacterium representing 27 of total relative abundance in the ssms enrichments figure 2. while a few reads related to unclassified gaiellaceae were also retrieved from the ssms pyrosequencing dataset the relative abundance was negligible.

other dominant genera in the soil gdna dataset including ellin6529 chloroflexi 5 rb41 acidobacteria 3 and solirubrobacterales actinobacteria 4 were retrieved only as a minor fraction 0.05 of the community in the enrichments figure 2. the well characterized cyanobacterium leptolyngbya present at 6 of the relative abundance in the soil dataset was not recovered in the ssms.

in total 17 strains spanning two phyla ascomycota 96 identity and basidiomycota 98 identity were identified including cryptococcus phoma engyodontium thelobolus and cladosporium table 2. almost all fungal strains isolated from browning peninsula were microfungi with 98 similarity to previously isolated fungi species table 2. the most abundant microfungi strain recovered belonged to geomycestable 1  bacteria recovered from different culture media from browning peninsula soils.pannorum 99 identity previously isolated from the cyst of a nematode globodera pallida and holtermanniella watticus 99 identity previously isolated from king george island chile table 2.comparison of culture-dependent and -independent techniquesa large proportion of bacterial and fungal otus were not shared between culture dependent and independent techniques figure 4. for example 135 otus detected were common in soil and ssms datasets only four otus were common in ssms and artificial media and one otu was present in the artificial media and soil datasets figure 4. in fact there were more unique bacterial genera retrieved than shared between techniques.

altogether six of the fungal otus recovered were common in the soil and ssms enrichments four otus were common in enrichments and artificial media while three otus were present in the soil and artificial media datasets.

similar to the bacterial data 596 unique fungal otus were retrieved from the soil dataset only 47 otus from ssms enrichments and seven otus from cultivation figure 4.table 2  fungi recovered from different cultivation media from browning peninsula soil.from both soil and ssms ssms recovered 39.5 of unique proteobacteria 23 of actinobacteria 27 of bacteroidetes and 24 of firmicutes supplementary table 4. the shared otus were 10 for proteobacteria 11 for actinobacteria 12 for bacteroidetes and 3.5 for firmicutes.

the recovery of fungal unique ascomycota otus from soil was 90 and ssms was 9. for basidiomycota unique otus obtained were 87 from soil and 7.23 from ssms supplementary table 5.discussionmicrobial diversity and distribution across browning peninsulathe soils of browning peninsula harbor a bacterial community dominated by actinobacteria up to a 36 relative abundance followed by chloroflexi cyanobacteria proteobacteria and acidobacteria.

