biomass and bioenergy 3010 880-891.finn r. d. attwood t. k. babbitt p. c. bateman a. bork p. bridge a. j.... mitchell a. l. 2017. interpro in 2017-beyond protein family and domain annotations.

two-step co-culture enables gut fungi to be used in bio-based productiondue to a lack of genetic tools to engineer anaerobic gut fungi the use of a second easily engineered microbe is required for production of fuels and chemicals that are not natively produced my gut fungal metabolism.s.

received 14 september 2017  revised 15 november 2017  accepted 8 december 2017 doi 10.1002bit.26515article metabolic characterization of anaerobic fungi provides a path forward for bioprocessing of crude lignocellulosejohn k. henske1 st. elmo wilken1 kevin v. solomon12 chuck r. smallwood3vaithiyalingam shutthanandan3 james e. evans3 michael k. theodorou4michelle a. o'malley11 department of chemical engineering university of california santa barbara california2 agriculture and biological engineering purdue university w. lafayette indiana3 environmental molecular sciences laboratory pacific northwest national laboratory richland washington4 animal production welfare and veterinary sciences harper adams university newport shropshire ukcorrespondencemichelle a. o'malley department of chemical engineering university of california santa barbara ca 93106.email funding informationbiological and environmental research grant number de-sc0010352 us army grant number w911nf-09-0001 division of molecular and cellular biosciences grant number mcb-1553721 office of biological and environmental research grant number de-ac02-05ch11231de-ac05-76rl01830 cnsi grant numbers nsf mrsec dmr-1121053 nsf cns-0960316 doe-ber mesoscalegrant number molecules bioimaging project663821  introduction new approaches to harness lignocellulosic feedstocks for energy and chemical production are needed to grow a sustainable bio-based economy sanderson most fermentation processes utilizemicrobes that require simple sugars as feedstocks.

alternatively growth on cellobiose and cellulose as well as biomass triggered increased expression of cellulases hemicellulases and accessory enzymes in a. robustus figure 3d suggesting a single trigger to regulate all biomass degrading enzymes in this fungal species a pattern very different than observed in n. californiae.it is important to note that both organisms demonstrated a significant basal expression level of biomass degrading enzymes on glucose approximately 21500 and 10500 tpm 2.15 and 1.05 of total transcriptome expression in n. californiae and a. robustus respectively.

simultaneous co- cultures of a. robustus with s. cerevisiae figure s8 revealed that a. robustus was capable of supporting the s. cerevisiae in a one-pot consolidated bioprocessing culture.

the proceedings of the nutrition society 55 913-926.trinci a. p. j. davies d. r. gull k. lawrence m. i. bonde nielsen b. rickers a.  theodorou m. k. 1994. anaerobic fungi in herbivorous animals.

biotechnology for biofuels 71 75.youssef n. h. couger m. b. struchtemeyer c. g. liggenstoffer a. s. prade r. a. najar f. z.

two strains of anaerobic gut fungi n. californiae  a. robustus were previously isolated from large herbivores 20 and were utilized in this study.

gut fungi are critical members in the gut microbiome of large herbivores where they form syntrophic relationships with rumen methanogens that convert the carbon dioxide and hydrogen they produce into methane bauchop  douglas 1 bootten et al.

materials and methods culture maintenance of gut fungi and methodology for growth experimentsanaerobic media preparation and gut fungal culture procedures were used throughout this work.

results and discussion  gut fungi are powerful chemical and mechanical degraders of lignocelluloseanaerobic gut fungi are a valuable untapped resource for lignocellulosic bioprocessing due to their innate ability to degrade crude biomass through abundant secretion of diverse carbohydrate active enzymes solomon et al.

for example galactose and arabinose are expected to be liberated during lignocellulose digestion but did not support growth of the gut fungi these sugars may serve as metabolic links to a second organism that can catabolize these substrates.3.2  anaerobic fungi release excess sugars from crude biomassin nature gut fungi survive in a competitive microbial community but in isolation they have no competition for sugars and other resources and their extracellular cellulolytic enzymes are not subject to extensive proteolytic degradation.

the anaerobic reducing environment of the gut is likely to upset the redox balance of the oxido-reductase pathway resulting in accumulation of xylitol while the xylose isomerase pathway is less affected by anaerobic conditions bruinenberg de bot van dijken  scheffers 3 jeffries 3. while most of these observations are corroborated by growth experiments table s1 the presence of xylose catabolism conflicts with growth experiments that revealed these gut fungi do not thrive on the pentose sugar table s1.

accumulated pressure of the gut fungi and yeast co- cultures wasgreater than that of thegut fungal monoculture suggesting that the yeast successfully grew alongside the gut fungus.

in a. robustus growth on cellobiose triggered expression of cellulaseshemicellulase and accessory enzymes yet in n. californiae only cellulases were upregulated by cellobiose while hemicellulases were activated by biomass substrates.

