sixty-four subjects were allocated to either the placebo food group group p n32 or active food group group a n32 in which subjects consumed lactobacillus k-1 50 mg approximately 1 x 1011 bacteria daily for 8 weeks.

during the treatment period we excluded 6 subjects one in group p who declined further study participation three in group p and one in group a who violated the study protocol one in group a who was judged inappropriate for inclusion in the efficacy set by the principal investigators owing to use of antibiotic anti-inflammatory and anti-gastric acid medicines.

however scores for skin crazing and flaking skin on the elbow were significantly lower in group a than group p.adverse eventsa total of 26 mild adverse events 14 in group a and 12 in group p occurred in trial 1. the principal investigator judged that none of the mild adverse events were related to intake of either tablet.

2c and 2d.effect on self-assessed skin conditionwe found some differences in survey results between group a and group p table 5. flaky skin on the face was significantly improved in group a after 4 weeks of active tablet intake.

n30 for group a and n28 except q9 n27 for group p. p0.05 compared with group p by mann-whitney u test.

after excluding subjects who declined to participate n1 violated restrictions n4 or were judged ineligible by the principal investigators n1 data obtained with 58 subjects 30 in group a and 28 in group p were analyzed for efficacy by comparing differences from pretrial levels between the two groups.

when the level of transepidermal water loss tewl was measured at the arm the level of tewl at week 4 of the intake period was significantly lower in group a than group p p0.021 suggesting an improvement of skin barrier function.

based on the results of the pretrial testing and analysis of log data 64 of the eligible subjects were randomly and sequentially assigned using random number tables to one of two masked product groups those receiving l. k-1-containing tablets group a n32 and those receiving placebo tablets group p n32.

1. outline of the study.subjects in group a consumed l. k-1-containing tablets and subjects in group p consumed placebo tablets.

exclusion before randomization due to judgment by the investigator n9 was mainly based on age stool frequency or tewl value.corneum hydration values the changes from the pretrial values were compared statistically between group a and group p. between-group comparisons were performed using the unpaired student's t-test for skin condition they were performed with the mann-whitney u test.

we selected the 64 subjects with the highest tewlvalues and allocated them to either the active l. k-1-containing tablets group a n32 or placebo group p n32 treatment.

thus the data for 58 subjects 30 in group a and 28 in group p were analyzed.

na not applicable bmi body mass index tewl transepidermal water loss.p who declined to participate in the study were not considered.the background characteristics for each group are shown in table 2. there was no significant between- group difference in age height body weight body mass index tewl at the cheek or arm and stratum corneum hydration level at the cheek or arm at the screening test or pretrial test.effects on tewl and stratum corneum hydration statuslevels of tewl and corneum hydration at the cheek and arm before and after test tablets intake are summarized in table 3 and the changes from the pretrial values are shown in fig.

2. the cheek tewl values were lower in group a than in group p throughout the study period but the differences were not statistically significant table 3 and fig.

k-1 intake table 3 and its change from pretrial values was significantly smaller in group a than in group p p0.021 at week 4 fig.

