most intrigu- ingly hmos also appear in the urine of pregnant women as early as the end of the first trimester 19 suggesting that hmos might already affect pregnant women and the growing fetus long before birth.in a previous study we demonstrated that hmos regulate the host innate immune response in bladder epithelial cells to prevent invasion and cytotoxicity caused by uropathogenic escherichia coli upec without any direct interference with bacterial growth 20. to delineate whether hmos generate similar effects with other neonatal pathogens we examined the effect of hmos on gbs which is commonly found in the urogenital tract of pregnant women.

further investigation revealed a unique aspect of hmos that causes a significant gbs growth defect.resultshuman milk oligosaccharides inhibit growth of group b streptococcusto evaluate the potential antimicrobial effects of hmo on a group of bacterial pathogens we resuspended 105 cfu of each bacterial overnight culture in serum-free tissue culture medium rpmi with or without 2 mgml of hmos isolated from pooled human milk phmo and then incubated for 4 h. phmos did not affect the growth of upec p. aeruginosa and methicillin-resistant s. aureus.

thus phmo-mediated inhibition of gbs growth is neither a nonspecific effect of oligosaccharides nor does it appear to require a protein.next we separated phmos into sialylated acidic hmos ahmos and non-sialylated neutral hmos nhmos 9. although nhmos exerted a similar effect as phmos ahmos did not inhibit gbs growth fig.

at 1.0 mgml nhmos slowed serotype iii gbs coh1 growth by 98.2 serotype ia gbs a909 growth by 97.0 and serotype v gbs nctc1084 growth by 96.0 fig.

all bacteria were propagated in standing culture to stationary phase at 37 degc inlnnt lnnh lnfpi lndfhii lnno lnndfh lnnfpvand lnfpv.gbs growth and susceptibility testovernight gbs growth was back-diluted to a600  0.01 in serum-free rpmi 1640 sf-rpmi life technologies or sup- plemented with pooled or fractions of hmos.

pheno- typic screening of a gbs transposon insertion library identified a mutation within a gbs-specific gene encoding a putative gly- cosyltransferase that confers resistance to hmos suggesting that hmos may function as an alternative substrate to modify a gbs component in a manner that impairs growth kinetics.

we evaluated the bac- teriostatic activity of each fraction by monitoring the gbs growth rate and found the strongest growth inhibition in the fourth and sixth size fractions fig.

relative growth of gbs within2h in each fraction n1-n10 and rpmi as a control is shown as a600 nm 4 h2 h which represents the ratio of optical density measured at 4 h divided by the optical density measured at 2 h. b relative gbs growth cfu recovered with respect to initial inoculum after2h of incubation in sf-rpmi alone red columns or supplemented with 5 mgml of individual commercially acquired neutral oligosaccharides black columns.

relative growth represents cfu at the indicated point with respect to initial cfu inoculum x 100.  p  0.001 ns not significant.found that the capsule-deficient mutant still exhibited signifi- cant growth inhibition in the presence of nhmo fig.

unexpectedly we found that hmos directly inhibit the growth of gbs a property not shared with upec pseudomonas aeruginosa or staphylo- coccus aureus.

a gbs serotype iii strain coh1 growth curve in the presence of 5 mgml of pooled hmos or gos in sf-rpmi medium.

3c showed no significant inhibition of gbs growth.disruption of gbs glycosyltransferase leads to resistance against hmosto identify bacterial factors involved in gbs susceptibility to hmos we screened 1200 serotype iii gbs coh1 trans- poson tn917e mutants from our previously published library21 for resistance to growth suppression by 2.5 mgml ofphmos.

to explore this hypothesis we first moni- tored the growth kinetics of a gbs serotype iii capsule-defi- cient mutant strain hy106 23 in the presence of hmos.

conversely in this study we found that certain neutral non-sialylated forms of hmos may cause a significant defect in gbs growth.

glycosyltransferases par- ticipate in the biosynthesis of capsular polysaccharides cell wall peptidoglycan and anchoring of lipotechoic acid within the cell wall 27 28. in gbs glycosyltransferase-encoding cpse is important for the synthesis of the surface polysaccharide cap- sules 29 and iaga is a glycosyltransferase that aids in the anchoring of lipotechoic acid 21 but neither are essential for gbs growth 21 29. gbs mutants lacking capsule or iaga however remain sensitive to hmos.

