due to their potent and broad antimicrobial activity antimicrobial peptides amps and in particular cationic antimicrobial peptides camps are a possible alternative to conventional antibiotics.

antimicrobial peptides have been found to have a broad-spectrum activity with active peptides identified against both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria membrane-bound viruses and fungi.

antimicrobial peptides can also have significant immunomodulatory activity directed towards the host which is likely to be an additional critical aspect of their function in vivo.-some peptides have been identified as having a role in promoting wound-healing.forthese reasons amps are potentially useful in combating mdr bacteria and may be useful as potential treatments for infected wounds.animals are a promising source of camps because of their evolved defenses to bacteria.

all peptides were reconstituted in a buffer consisting of 20 mg bovine serum albumin and 10 ul acetic acid in 50 ml pbs.table summarizes characteristics of peptides used in this study.assays for antimicrobial and anti-biofilm activityp.

scale bar 20 umatcc 9027 by these peptides.

any compound that can permeabilize the cytoplasmic membrane and thus depolarize the gradient such as an antimicrobial peptide will lead to the release of disc35 and thus leads to an increase in fluorescence.the peptides were tested against p. aeruginosa atcc 9027 at a concentration of 20 ugml which was expected to cause a large and immediate increase in fluorescence indicative of loss of membrane potential.

therefore we sought to determine the secondary structure of the peptides in the membrane-mimicking media sodium dodecyl sulfate sds and trifluoroethanol tfe fig.

nevertheless drgn-1 0.64 displays a slightly larger r2 value the hallmark of the coiled-coil a-helical structure in 50 tfe than vk25 0.44. it has been shown by several groups that tfe can induce and support a-helical structures in peptides.

f cytotoxicity testing the peptides were tested for their cytotoxic effect against heka cells.

aureus grown on agar for 2 days.the kinetics of wound closure was evaluated by measuring the original wound area before and after treatment with peptides.

a fluor- escent dye uptake for etbr by the p. aeruginosa atcc 9027 in the presence of peptides 20 ugml.

p values were calculated using a two-tailed t test assuming unequal variances comparing with untreated control at 20 min p  0.01. b membrane depolarization was monitored by the change in the intensity of fluorescence emission of the membrane-potential-sensitive dye disc35 excita- tion wavelength at 622 nm emission wavelength at 670 nm on addition of 20 ugml peptides or 0.1 triton x-100 for a positive controlblades on mice and the wound closure was evaluated by measurement of original wound area .

in summary wound healing was significantly enhanced by drgn-1 in both uninfected and mixed biofilm p. aeruginosa and s. aureus-infected murine wounds.efficacy of drgn-1 on keratinocyte migration in a scratch-wound closure assaysome camps also have host-directed functions and thus camps are also called host-defense peptides.

thus we sought to investigate why this reversal induced the activity.one possibility is that this switch may induce overall structural changes thus enabling the peptides to exert differential activity.

we determined the secondary structures of the peptides drgn-1 and vk25 using cd spectroscopy.

