in this study we isolated a novel l. ruminis strain grl 1172 from porcine feces and analyzed its functional characteristics and niche adaptation factors in parallel with those of three other l. ruminis strains a human isolate atcc 25644 and two bovine isolates atcc 27780 and atcc 27781. all the strains adhered to fibronectin type i collagen and human colorectal adenocarcinoma cells ht-29 but poorly to type iv collagen porcine intestinal epithelial cells ipec-1 and human colon adenocarcinoma cells caco-2.

previously adhered s. typhimurium cells could even be displaced from caco-2 cells by all four l. ruminis strains while the displacement of the other pathogens was not observed  the adherence on andor invasion of caco-2 cells by yersinia and etec was not affected or was even enhanced by the later addition of l. ruminis.inhibition of pathogen growth by the culture supernatants of l. ruministhe culture supernatants of the four l. ruminis strains were tested for their abilities to inhibit the growth of selected pathogens.

if the l. ruminis strains were allowed to settle on ipec-1 cells before the addition of the pathogen exclusion a similar level of inhibition 50-60 by atcc 26544 and grl 1172 was observed while the two bovine strains were slightly less inhibitory .we also tested the abilities of the four l. ruminis strains to inhibit the adherence of different human or animal pathogens to caco-2 cells a commonly used model for human small intestinal epithelium.

the cells were observed for tight junction proteins using fluorescence microscopy leica dm400b.stimulation of hek-tlr2 and hek-tlr5 cells by l. ruminis and its culture supernatantshek-tlr2 and hek-tlr5 cells were seeded into 24-well plates corning at the density of 5.0 104 cells per well.

the inhibition of pathogen adherence to caco-2 cells was tested as previously described for ipec-1 cells   with slight modifications the l. ruminis strains were suspended to rpmi 1640 medium without supplements to normalize the cell densities the caco- 2 cell layers on 96-well plates were washed only three times at the end of the experiment and the volume of 1 sds in 0.1 m naoh used to lyse the cells was 100 ul.

the human isolate atcc 25644 adhered to human intestinal epithelial cells slightly better than l. ruminis strains from other origins but on the other hand also the other strains did bind to human ht-29 cells.

with this in mind we tested the abilities of all our l. ruminis strains to inhibit the adherence of the chosen pathogens to ipec-1 and caco-2 cells despite the poor ipec-1 and caco-2 adherence of our l. ruminis strains and indeed found that all the l. ruminis strains inhibited pathogen adherence to these cell lines in competition assays.

all four strains failed to bind to ipec-1 cells and showed poor adherence 0.5-2 to caco-2 cells data not shown.

this suggests that most of theinhibition of pathogen growth in this experiment was due to the acidity of the supernatants caused by lactic acid produced by the homofermentative l. ruminis.effects of l. ruminis on the barrier function of caco-2 cellsthe abilities of the four l. ruminis strains grl 1172 atcc 25644 atcc 27780 and atcc 27781 to maintain the membrane barrier integrity and to prevent membrane damage caused by etec were assessed using the human intestinal epithelial cell line caco-2.as shown in  the teer values in the thincerts with caco-2 cells incubated with cell culture medium declined slightly during overnight incubation which might be due to the presumed slight damaging of the tight junctions during theover 3-week cultivation of caco-2 cells on thincerts.

however abundant diffusion of dextran was detected when etec alone or etec with l. ruminis were incubated on the cells for 21 h and the diffusion increased drastically at 48 h. these data suggest that even though the l. ruminis strains enhanced the cell barrier integrity they could not protect caco-2 cells from the damage caused by etec.immunofluorescence assays were performed to study the location of the tight junction proteins during co-culture with etec andor l. ruminis .

when the caco-2 cells were treated with l. ruminis strains alone  the continuous lines between adjacent cells were clearly present indicating that the locations of zo-1 claudin-4 and occludin did not change and the epithelial barrier was intact.

as the l. ruminis strains adhered very poorly to ipec-1 cells we did not wash them away in exclusion assays before we added etec cells making this experimental set-up partially of the competition type but with reduced possibilities for etec and l. ruminis to interact in suspension compared to pure competition experiments.

unexpectedly however the adherence andor invasion of caco-2 cells by salmonella was 20-30 less efficient if any of the l. ruminis strains had been added to caco-2 cells after the co-incubation with salmonella as compared to the assay with no l. ruminis.

we also analyzed the pathogen- and host-microbe interactions of the new isolate and of three other l. ruminis strains atcc 25644 atcc 27780 and atcc 27781 originating from different mammalian hosts by investigating the adhesion of the strains to ecm proteins and intestinal epithelial cell lines and by examining their abilities to inhibit the adherence of selected pathogens to ecm proteins or epithelial cells.

none of the l. ruminis strains was able to displace previously adhered pathogens from ecm proteins .inhibition of pathogen adherence to epithelial cellsthe capacities of the four l. ruminis strains to inhibit the adherence of etec to porcine small intestinal epithelial cells was tested in the ipec-1 cell model.

