genes tools and knowledge about aba from plant sciences and studies of phytopathogenic fungi might benefit biomedical studies on the physiological role of endogenously generated aba in humans.keywords immunity inflammation host-microbe interactions metabolic engineering comparative biology signal transduction natural product chemistry systems biologyintroductionabscisic acid aba is best known as a phytohormone regulating abiotic stress responses in plants but aba biosynthesis has been observed in a phylogenetically wide range of organisms hartung 2010 ranging from cultured cyanobacteria marsalek et al.

in humans and animal models it has been shown that aba treatment or nutrient-derived aba is beneficial in inflammatory diseases like colitis and type 2 diabetes which confer potential to aba as an interesting nutraceutical or pharmacognostic drug.

2000. alternatively could aba production from animal cells be investigated in presence of different types of inhibitors such as statins and bisphosphonates in order to determine the biosynthesis pathway.aba in plant-microbe interactionsthe effect of aba on plant pathogen resistance is complex figure 3. many pathosystems have demonstrated a negative effect from aba on plant pathogen resistance such as the botrytis cinerea--tomato audenaert et al.

one of the first indications of a positive influence from plant aba signaling on biotic stress resistance was the reliance of aba for a b-aminobutyric acid baba-induced priming for pathogen resistance ton and mauch-mani 2004. endogenous aba was later shown to play a positive role directly in brassica napus and arabidopsis callose-dependent disease resistance to the hemibiotrophic fungal pathogen leptosphaeria maculans kaliff et al.

2016. interpretations of the role of aba in toxoplasma virulence must however be made with caution since toxoplasma aba production was inhibited using the herbicide fluridone which also seems to affect aba produced in mammalian cells magnone et al.

2014. the use of aba and other plant hormones as effector molecules or virulence factors on non-plant hosts is still a relatively unexplored area and it is possible that more bacterial protist oomycete and fungal pathogens utilize this strategy.physiological and pharmacological effects of aba in animalsthe presence of aba in animal tissues has been known since the 1980s le page-degivry et al.

pharmaceutical research on aba currently focuses on generation of aba analogs that will be more stable or act as aba antagonists grozio et al.

2015. an alternative treatment approach is to manipulate aba homeostasis indirectly by targeting the different mechanisms that influence the levels of free intracellular aba todoroki and ueno 2010. a conceptually similar approach has already been tried in animal systems by treatments with a herbicide fluridone which is known to influence aba levels in plants magnone et al.

2011. despite the apparent low importance of gcr2 in plant aba responses the human lancl2 seem to workas expected from an aba receptor since independent drugs targeting this protein result in effects similar to those seen by aba treatment bissel et al.

2006 but there are currently no reports on whether aba or other plant hormones are present in the endogenous gut microbiome metabolome and if levels and presence of these compounds correlate with different host physiological states.being an endogenously generated anti-inflammatory secondary metabolite puts aba in the same category as the glucocorticoids and other anti-inflammatory steroids but with the important difference that we know very little about the function and regulation of aba in humans.

there could also be different receptor- and signal systems to respond to intracellular and extracellular aba which perhaps could explain some discrepancies between results suggesting an anti-inflammatory role of aba and results where depletion of extracellular aba with antibodies resulted in reduced activation of macrophages magnone et al.

the frequent use of aba in inter-species communication could be a possible reason for the wide distribution and re-invention of aba as a signaling molecule in different organisms.

furthermore aba can exist in four different possible stereoisomeric forms but naturally occurring aba is predominantlyof a single form cistrans-aba.

the vast majority of all studies on physiological effects of aba to date are also focused on the role of aba in plants.

most notably among studies of aba in other organisms several phytopathogenic fungal pathogens produce aba as a virulence factor mbengue et al.

