coluzzii has reduced tolerance to bacterial infection in the midgut and consequently reduced immune resistance to plasmodium infection at the haemocoel level.

the abundance of the csp gene fragment was measured five days post infection hence served as a marker for vi- able oocyst development in the gut.a modified protocol from was used for staphylo- coccus aureus culturing and administration for mosquito infection.

these data indicate that at low levels of infection all three mosquito species are equally permissive to parasite infection.

taken together these data suggest that high levels of hemocoel immunity influ- enced by an increased abundance of gut microbiota which is related to reduced epithelial immune response increased tolerance to bacteria can be beneficial to mos- quitoes during infection but detrimental in the absence of infection.

these data in conjunction with the finding that all three po- pulations demonstrated similar infection phenotypes following complement knockout suggest the presence of genetic variation associated with the infection phenotype of each population.

arabiensis line within a limited number of generations data not shown.all three mosquito species appear to be equally per- missive to p. berghei infection at low infection rates.

stephensi mo- squitoes of a laboratory colony have been previously reported at low infection intensities similar obser- vations have been made for onchocerca roundworm in- fections of blackflies differences in infection intensities between the three mosquito species become significant as the parasite chal- lenge increases.

the mosquito immune system has been identified as a key factor that can influence whether plasmodium infection establishes within the mosquito vector.

we also demonstrated that the level of immune tolerance to p. berghei infection in the haemolymph is inversely correlated with the level of immune tolerance to microbiota observed in the midgut lumen after a blood meal.

coluzzii.conclusions we propose a model whereby an increased tolerance to microbiota in the mosquito midgut results in lower tolerance to plasmodium infection.

such mole- cules block host immune signalling -the effect of this blockade varies in magnitude between resistant and susceptible hosts.malaria parasites are believed to exploit the interplaybetween immune tolerance and resistance to establish an infection.

gambiae complex controls plasmodium infection.

malaria non- vector mosquito species show a higher tolerance to gut microbiota resulting in a greater refractoriness to plasmo- dium infection while the opposite is true for malaria vec- tor mosquitoes.

500 to 3000 ooki- netemosquito.the parasite infection intensity was determined through direct examination of fluorescent oocysts in themidguts  or by quantitative real-time pcr qpcr.

briefly the bacteria culture was allowed to grow to od600  0.7 in lb liquid media and then precip- itated and washed before suspending in pbs to a final bacterial suspension of od600  0.4. bacteria were injected into the mosquito thorax.midgut dissectionthree types of midgut dissection were carried out i midguts were removed from female mosquitoes that were infected with p. berghei 7 days earlier and the para- site infection intensity in the gut was quantified by direct examination for fluorescent oocysts as previously de- scribed .

