particle size organic matter content and nutrient and chlorophyll a levels were measured in each sediment type for detailed methods see the si.microcosm setupmicrocosms were constructed in 2 l pyrex beakers with a 21 sediment water ratio by volume using homogenized sediment and artificial fresh water afw distilled water with 0.3 mm mgcl20.6 mm cacl2 and 1.4 mm nahco3.

a preliminary microcosm experi- ment showed no difference in cent decay in freshwater sediment collected from site s2 when ambient site water or filter-sterilized site water was used instead of afw see si for details fig.

sediment from each of the three replicate beakers was processed for culturable fib cec and cent and genetic markers for human hf183 enterococci ent1a and general bacteroides gb3 on days 0 1 3 5 7 12 and 21. water from one of the three replicate beakers was processed on days 1 3 5 7 and 12 to account for resuspension to the water column occurring between day 1 and day 12.marker processing dna extraction and qpcr analyseswater samples were processed by filtering sample through a 47 mm 0.4 mm pore size http polycarbonate filter emd millipore billerica ma in triplicate.

two creek reaches were modeled 1 the upper watershed reach which represented a 1000 m stretch between 6500 m and 4800 m where significant reductions in fib levels were observed during field sampling and which represented an impacted stream segment and 2 a 1000 m stretch within the lower topanga watershed 3600 me1700 m. both reaches are located between the town of topanga and topanga state beach a heavily populated recreational site and have the potential to mediate urban inputs from the town of topanga.the model applied in this study considered the scenario where there is a constant input from an upstream site of 300 mpn 100 ml-1 cent and 400 copies 100 ml-1 hf183 marker.initial concentrations in the sediment and water column were set to zero.the elements modeled include time-variant cent and hf183 marker sediment and water levels.

stream dimensions depth of the water column and sediment and average flow u were based on average measurements taken in topanga creek from 2012 to 2014 se si table s5.the concentration in the water column was governed by settling of particle-attached microbes and is described in eqn.

decay rate constants was also found to vary as a function of the microbiota treatment culturable fib and the gb3 and ent1a markers exhibit decreased persistence in the presence of ambient microbiota in freshwater sediments.genetic markers and fib in the water columntime series results of normalized fib and mst marker concen- trations in the water column are included in si figs.

hf183 marker decay was slowed to a lesser extent by the reduced microbiota treatment and the hf183 marker showed no signs of potential for re-growth in any of the four sed- iments tested.concentration of fib and genetic markers in overlying water columnartificial freshwater was used in the microcosm experiments therefore fib and markers found in the water column were derived from the spiked sediments.

decreased vegetative cover was reported in the upper watershed  increasing the potential for uv inactivation of fib in the water column which has been shown to be an important factor influencing the survival of enteric bacteria  .this study illustrates that freshwater sediment characteristics have the potential to impact persistence of indicators having important ramifications for water quality.

2014. response of coliform populations in streambed sediment and water column to changes in nutrient concentrations in water.

eeffect of freshwater sediment characteristics on the persistence of fecal indicator bacteria and genetic markers within a southern california watershedamity g. zimmer-faust   vanessa thulsiraj   catalina marambio-jones  yiping cao john f. griffith  patricia a. holden  jennifer a. jay  a department of civil and environmental engineering university of california at los angeles los angeles ca 90095 united statesb southern california coastal water research project 3535 harbor blvd ste 110 costa mesa ca 92626 united statesc earth research institute and bren school of environmental science  management university of california santa barbara ca 93106 united statesa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 1 november 2016 received in revised form 22 march 2017accepted 9 april 2017available online 18 april 2017keywordsfecal indicator bacteria genetic markers microbial source tracking decay ratefreshwater sedimenta b s t r a c t in this study the aging of culturable fib and dna representing genetic markers for enterococcus spp.

sediments can promote persistence of fecal organisms both by providing protec- tion from ultraviolet radiation temperature fluctuations and 0043-1354c 2017 published by elsevier ltd.predation by microorganisms in the overlying water column   and by supplying critical nutri- ents  .

under favorable sediment conditions fecal indicator bacteria fib exhibit extended survival and even regrowth which can lead to false positive indications of recent fecal pollution in water quality monitoring when organisms colonize sediment and levels no longer correspond with the presence of fecal pollution and pathogens  .fib are used as proxies for the myriad of pathogens present in fecal matter and their presence has been linked to adverse health effects .

molecular mst methods enable successful source tracking by allowing for same-day water quality monitoring results and information regarding the source of the fecal contamination fi .

although there has been limited research evaluating the decay rates of source tracking markers along with culturable fib in water e.g.

each beaker had an airstone to ensure mixed and oxygenated conditions whisper 100 aquarium air pump tetra blacksburg va. sediment was inspected visually to ensure that it was not suspended by air movement.microcosm samplingprior to sampling the sediment at each time point water was carefully pipetted off into sterile 1 l nalgene bottles so as not to disturb the sediment and stored on ice for processing.

