besides carnobacterium other genera were detected at lower levels including clostridium 14 and 8 abattoir a and d respectively and lactobacillus 7-16 abattoirs a cand d lactococcus 16 abattoir c leuconostoc 9.5 abattoir f. by week-30 carnobacterium predominated on samples from abattoirs a c and d 77-97 whereas for abattoir f leuconostoc gelidum 63 and carnobacterium 29 were the predominant bacteria.unifrac analysis showed more similarities for striploins among abattoirs compared to cube rolls.

abattoir d showed the highest diversity followed by abattoir a. the higher diversity observed at abattoir d resulted from a greater number of bacterial species measured as number of trfs present and which were evenly distributed.

for abattoir c at 0 week and abattoir f at 16 weeks the strongest similarity was between striploin and cube roll samples p  1. at 0 weeks abattoir c cube rolls and striploins shared similar populations of pseudomonas acidovorax c. divergens janthinobacterium and sphingomonas.

the selec- tion and establishment of the resident bacteria could be further influenced by different processing protocols adopted in each abattoir such as hot-water pasteurization of final carcasses prior to chilling at abattoir c and d. once established these abattoir microbiomes act as source of inoculum for subsequent production batches  .the differences among abattoirs were both qualitative i.e.

differences among bac- terial communities for different factors abattoir cut storage time based on phylogenetic distance were calculated using unifrac .resultstrflp analysis of vp beef primal communities from different abattoirsin order to test the impact of abattoir on community structure variation the bacterial trflp profiles generated for each sample were compared using permanova.

the lowest diversity was observed at abattoir f. striploins showed greater bacterial diversity compared to cube rolls and diversity decreased with storage time data not shown.relationship between meat sensory quality parameters and trfsthe distlm analysis showed that relationships among sensory attributes and bacterial trfs were significant  with positive correlations p  0.01 observed between trfs and vacuum integrity confinement odour and intact pack appearance.

the plot showed distinct grouping of vp meat samples by abattoir with the first canonical axis separating abattoirs b e and f from abattoirs a and c while the second axis separated abattoir d from abattoirs a b c and f. differences among abattoirs changed over a period of 30 weeks.

brochothrix thermoshacta was found on samples at abattoir d 48. at 30 weeks c. divergens was dominant on samples from abattoir a 85 and c 68 and to lesser extent from d 32 and f 48. abattoirs a and d still contained detectable levels of janthinobacterium spp.

abattoirs d and f samples were the only abattoirs at 30 weeks to contain c. maltaromaticum 21 and 42. abattoir c also contained serratia proteamaculans 27. overall after 30 weeks of storage at-0.5 degc carnobacterium became clearly the most abundant taxon on vp primals across all abattoirs 53-93 of total clones with the most consistent and predominant species being carnobacterium divergens.unifrac analysis showed differences between abattoir cube roll sample pairs over 30 weeks of storage.

abattoir d samples had a dominant population of c. divergens 89 whereas leuconostoc gelidum 63 of clones and c. maltaromaticum 26 predominated in abattoir f samples.

the present study adds to these findings by providing greater definition about temporal changes in bacterial communities using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism trflp and clone library analyses of 16s ribosomal rna 16s rrna gene and measuring statistical associations among abattoir beef cut storage time and sensory attributes.

the animals that present at the abattoir are the primary sources of bacterial contamination of otherwise sterile beef tissues.

permanova permutational multivariate ano- va add-in to primer  was used to test for differences in bacterial communities under the fixed factors abattoir cut storage time.

canonical analysis of principal coordinates cap  was then used to visualize multi--0.1-0.2-0.3-0.3-0.2-0.100.10.20.3cap1dimensional community differences plotted along simple axes expres- sing similarity and dissimilarity between samples and viewed in terms for the factors abattoir cut and week of storage.the relationship of bacterial terminal restriction fragments trfs and meat sensory characteristics data obtained from  was investigated using a distance-based linear model distlm and distance-based redundancy analysis dbrda  .

furthermore within each abattoir and at each time point significant differences p  0.1 in striploins and cube rolls were observed except for abattoirs b week 16 e week 0 and 30 and f week 30. a significance level of 10 was considered significantly different as the maximum possible permutations with three replicates were 10.changes in vp beef primal bacterial diversity during storagesignificant differences were observed among abattoirs p  0.0060.20.10-0.1-0.2-0.3-0.2-0.100.10.20.3cap1fig.

