when comparing 24 h and 48 h e. coli atcc 8786 had the lowest growth rates in the first 24 h for all substrates studied except for the supplemented okara medium where populations between 24 h and48 h of incubation did not show a significant difference p  0.05. additionally for the same incubation time the broth supplemented with the acerola by-product showed the lowest e. coli populations compared to the other substrates employed in this study p  0.05.to evaluate which of the by-productsamaranth presented impor- tant differences regarding the growth of the strains studied we carried out a principal component analysis pca on a dataset of 15 strains using 6 vegetable substrates.

the first principal component pc f1 for 24 h of incubation explained 60.66 of the total variance between the by-productsamaranth and the second component f2 explained 27.28. therefore the first two pc ex- plained 87.95 of the variability between by-productsamaranth in relation to bacterial growth  a. for the growth after 48 h of incubation the first pc f1 explained 52.32 of the variability between the by-productsamaranth and the second component 36.56. therefore the first two pc explained 88.87 of the variability between by-productsamaranth regarding bacterial growth b.after 24 h of incubation st. thermophilus th-4 and st-m6 grewbetter in amaranth flour passion fruit and mango by-products espe- cially when compared to the acerola by-product.

on the other hand bb-46 stood out at 48 h for passion fruit and at 24 h for mango orange and acerola and ta-40 did not stand out at 24 h for the passion fruit by-product in which the strain showed growth promotion after 48 h of incubation.therefore the results of the present study reinforce the fact that thefermentation and the potential modulation of individual strains possi- bly present in the gut microbiota may be influenced by different growth conditions and the availability of nutrients.

after 48 h of incubation the growth of the strains bb- 46 st-m6 and th-4 was higher in the presence of passion fruit orange and mango by-products and amaranth on the right of the map b. therefore these substrates were more favourable for the bb- 46 st-m6 and th-4 strains compared to the acerola and okara by- products on the left of map b. bb-46 showed the highest growth in the presence of the passion fruit by-product and th-4 in the presence of amaranth flour whereas lower growth rates in the presence of acerola was observed for th-4 and bb-46 in the presence of okara.

perfringens cl strains on phenol red mrs broth supplemented with 1 wv of the a acerola b mango c orange d passion fruit e okara by-products and of f amaranth before 0 h  and after 24 h   and 48 h   of incubation at 37 degc.

however st. thermophilus ta-40 showed the highest growth in the presence of acerola orange and passion fruit by-products when compared to okara and mango by-products and amaranth.discussionthe fermentation ability of fifteen bacteria including three starter cultures ten probiotic cultures and two harmful bacteria representa- tive of intestinal microbiota after 24 h and 48 h in modified mrs supplemented with six vegetable substrates acerola mango orange passion fruit by-products okara and amaranth flour were evaluated.

the enumeration of the bacterial populations was performed before 0 h and after 24 h and 48 h of incubation at 37 degc using the appropriate agar media for each microorganism .statistical analysisthe shapiro-wilk test was used to verify the data normality and the bartlett test was used to check assumptions of homoscedasticity.

perfringens atcc 13124 did not grow significantly in the presence of acerola mango or orange by-products after 24 or 48 h of incubation p  0.05 when compared to the non- supplemented mmrs broth negative control 7.62 log cfuml and7.68 log cfuml for 24 h and 48 h respectively data not shown.

in vitro and in vivo assays have shown that hydrolysis of amaranth proteins leads to the release of bioactive peptides with potential antithrombotic and antihypertensive activities  .therefore as plant substrates may have compounds which might be promising in terms of stimulating the growth of beneficial bacteria the present study aimed to evaluate the fermentation of different vegetable fruit and soy by-products as well as amaranth flour by probiotic lactobacilli and bifidobacteria and starter streptococci strains and by harmful bacteria representative of the intestinal microbiota escherichia coli atcc 8739 and clostridium perfringens atcc 13124.material and methodsamaranth flour and the manufacture of the industrial by-products powderorange acerola passion fruit and mango by-products were obtained from fruit processing companies located in the state of sao paulo brazil in march july august and december 2014 respec- tively and stored at -18 degc until their processing.

illustrates the growth of the strains after 24 h 3a and 48 h 3b of incubation at 37 degc.

3. principal component graph of bacterial growth in the presence of different vegetable substrates after 24 h a and 48 h b of incubation at 37 degc.

the fruit and okara by- products powder  0.42 mm and amaranth flour were processed and sterilized by gamma irradiation following .physicochemical analysis of the by-products and amaranth flourtotal solids lipids protein n x 6.25 and ash were determined according to the methods described by .

briefly fresh cultures of each strain obtained at 37 degc for 24 h in the cultivation conditions described in  were individually inoculated 4-5 log cfu in formulated modified deman-rogosa-sharpe mrs broth with phenol red mmrs  individually supple- mented with 1 wv of each by-product or amaranth flour.

principal components analysis was per- formed to evaluate the relationships between each bacterial strain and the vegetable substrates after 24 h and 48 h of incubation.

for this purpose the xlstat 2017 software was employed.resultschemical composition of the by-products and of amaranth flourthe chemical composition of each by-product and amaranth flour is presented in .

