ReviewPanacea in progress CRISPR and the future of its biological research introductionMichael Carroll Xiaohui Zhoua Department of Pathobiology and Veterinary Science the University of Connecticut 61 N. Eagleville Rd Storrs CT 06269-3089 United Statesb Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Zoonosis Yangzhou University Yangzhou Chinac Jiangsu Co-innovation Center for Prevention and Control of Important Animal Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses Yangzhou ChinaA R T I C L E I N F O KeywordsCRISPRAntimicrobials Antibiotic resistance Genome editing BacteriophageA B S T R A C T The elucidation of the CRISPR clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats adaptive immune system endogenous to most microbial life has culminated in progress in a diversity of scientific disciplines.

CRISPR applications such as microbiome engineering in order to enhance the human immune system beyond the fortitude of the wild type bacterial genome editing in industrial and medical aspects conquering antibiotic resistance the development of novel antimicrobial techniques the harvesting of solventogenic microbes the development of antifungal therapies and investigation of the genetic properties of fungi are here represented and the authors posit unconventional and at times gainfully tangential thoughts and concepts in order to encourage a reflective disposition towards this sophisticated device of nature a panacea in progress such that the most impassive and technical writing still carries the ring of poetry.IntroductionIn 1987 an ostensibly immaterial observation precipitated a revolution in biological research when researchers at Osaka University in Japan discovered the CRISPR locus by happenstance a footnote in their study of an unrelated gene .

It was observed that the CRISPR array does indeed respond to new information in order to mount a defense within the same generation as a corollary of thisBarrangou and colleagues posit that CRISPR is a form of adaptive immunity .

The adaptive nature of the CRISPR Cas9 system within the context of bacterial organisms is especially informative to molecular biology writ large being the only case of adaptive immunity documented in microbes CRISPR represents the immunological magnum opus of Prokaryota.

By designing a novel spacer and splicing it into the CRISPR locus and splicing the locus into a competent recombinant plasmid vector the CRISPR system may be transferred to microbial cells electroporation being a more desirable option than chemically induced transformation.

Unbeknownst to the investigators at the time they had made the earliest documentation of the CRISPR clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats bacterial adaptive immune system which has the research establishment swooning with respect to its highly protean nature a sundry of promising applications have been demon- strated for this sophisticated biological system.

The CRISPR revolution is promising in the fiasco of antibiotic resistance brought on by a national situation of injudicious doctors and food industry practices.

A seminal study in 2007 evidenced the adaptive nature of CRISPR.

Barrangou and colleagues observed the behavior of the CRISPR locus in S. thermophilus in lieu of bacteriophage infection.

The S. thermophilus preferentially stymied the propagation of phages that contained sequences complementary to those featured in the CRISPR array.

