althoughtable 1 crohn's disease and behcet's disease clinical featurescrohn's diseasebehcet's diseaseclinical manifestationsabdominal pain diarrhoea rectal bleeding nausea vomiting weight loss and feverextra intestinal manifestationsuveitis arthritis pyoderma gangrenosumerythema nodosum iron deficiency anaemiahistological featuresdiscontinuous distribution of longitudinal ulcers aphthous and cobblestone appearance focal cryptitis and epithelioid granulomasoral and genital ulcers joints and neurological involvementuveitis arthritis pyoderma gangrenosum erythema nodosum vaso-occlusive disease and thrombotic eventsmucosal inflammation and ulceration signs of vasculitis.most involved genderfemalemalegenetic predominant factornod2card15 16p12-q13 cxcl16 17p13stat6 12q13 tlr4 9q33 card9 9q34.3therapysystemic corticosteroids 5-asasulfasalazine thiopurines or aza6-mp anti tnf-a agents nutritional therapysurgerypatients refractory to medical treatment or with complicationshla-b51colchicine systemic corticosteroids mycophenolate mofetil cyclophosphamide thiopurines oraza6-mp anti tnf-a agentsrefractory to medical treatment or with complications such as perforations fistulae formation and massive gastrointestinal bleedingremission rates with medical therapy are similar to those reported in cd in intestinal bd surgical intervention is more frequent .

differen- tial diagnosis between intestinal bd and cd remains a challenge for clinicians and both conditions have significant clinical diagnostic and therapeutic overlaps.abbreviations5-asa 5-amino-salicylates aaea antia-enolase antibody ada adalimumab asca anti-saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies aza6-mp azathioprine6- mercaptopurine bd behcet disease cd crohn's disease cdai crohn's disease activity index css systemic corticosteroids daibd disease activityindex for intestinal behcet's disease ibd inflammatory bowel diseaseifx infliximab il interleukin isg international study group tnf-a tumour necrosis factor-aacknowledgementsnot applicable.fundingthis review did not receive funding.

it may be extremely difficult to distinguish intestinal bd from ibd due to similarities in intestinal and extra- intestinal manifestations and pathologic findings.

the probabilities of sur- gery hospital admission and post-operative recurrence were not significantly different between intestinal bd and cd 44.4 vs. 36.0 69.2 vs. 73.8 and 66.5 vs. 79.1at 10 years p  0.287 0.295 and 0.724 respectively butthe rates of corticosteroid and immunosuppressant use were higher in intestinal bd than in crohn's disease 59.4 vs. 42.6 and 37.7 vs. 27.1 p  0.001 and0.001 respectively .conclusionsintestinal bd and cd are inflammatory diseases with simi- lar multisystem involvement and various extra-intestinal signs and symptoms.

intestinal behcet's disease a true inflammatory bowel disease or merely an intestinal complication of systemic vasculitis yonsei med j.

differential diagnosis of intestinal behcet's disease and crohn's disease by colonoscopic findings.

longterm clinical outcomes of crohn's disease and intestinal behcet's disease.

recently novel diagnostic criteria and a disease activity index have been proposed in the diagnosis of intestinal bd treatment for intestinal bd is similar to cd such as steroids immunomodulators and biologic agents anti-tumour necrosis factor a antibody  the goal of this review is to describe these clinical conditions with similarities and differences from clinical therapeutic and surgical points of view.epidemiologybd has the highest incidence in countries located along the ancient silk road stretching from asia to the mediterranean countries.

defined novel diagnostic criteria for intestinal bd in korean patients with ileum-colonic ulcers based on endoscopic features typical or atypical intestinal bd ul- cerations and clinical patterns systemic symptoms oral ulcerations or extra-intestinal manifestations.

daibd includes clinical features that have been present over the preceding 7 days such as the general condition of patient extra- intestinal manifestations intestinal complications abdom- inal symptoms and signs fever and stool frequency not requiring laboratory data or endoscopic findings fig.

assessed the prevalence of igm aaea in patients with intestinal bd and found that igm aaea can be helpful for the diagno- sis of intestinal bd especially in patients without systemic manifestations of bd.

the japanese group in a consensus statement of anti-tnf-a therapy in patients with intestinal bd proposed its indication as a standard therapy for intestinal bd .

previously some clinicians had used crohn's disease activity index cdai for evaluating intestinal bd activity.

development and validation of novel diagnostic criteria for intestinal behcet's disease in korean patients with ileocolonic ulcers.

development validation and responsiveness of a novel disease activity index for intestinal behcet's disease.

