these signaling molecules are possibly involved in the biofilm incubation andor cell multiplication since quorum sensing plays an important role in biofilm formation .a remarkable observation was that the deficiency in biofilm formation by aflagellated mutants of campylobacter and salmonella was effectively rescued in the presence of a pre-coating layer of meat juice .

lastly the flow cultivation could distribute nutrients into biofilm structure more effectively than static cultivation which may lead to an enhanced biofilm formation.therefore chicken juice and pork juice collected from raw meatcarcasses were confirmed to be an effective promoting factor on biofilm formation of campylobacter and salmonella.

effects of meat juice on biofilm formation of campylobacter and salmonellajiaqi li jinsong feng lina ma cesar de la fuente nunez greta golz xiaonan lua food nutrition and health program faculty of land and food systems university of british columbia vancouver british columbia v6t 1z4 canadab synthetic biology group mit synthetic biology center department of biological engineering massachusetts institute of technology cambridge ma 02139 united statesc research laboratory of electronics department of electrical engineering and computer science massachusetts institute of technology cambridge ma 02139 unitedstatesd the center for microbiome informatics and therapeutics broad institute of mit and harvard cambridge ma 02139 united statese harvard biophysics program harvard university boston ma united statesf institute of food safety and food hygiene freie universitat berlin berlin 14163 germanya r t i c l e i n f o keywords biofilm campylobacter salmonella attachmentmicrofluidic lab-on-a-chipa b s t r a c t campylobacter and salmonella are leading causes of foodborne illnesses worldwide vastly harboured by raw meat as their common food reservoir.

this study aimed to identify if meat juice is an effective promotingfactor for biofilm formation of campylobacter and salmonella and to investigate the possible mechanisms of the interplay between meat juice and biofilm formation.

although pure chicken juice led to significantly p  0.05 higher levels of c. jejuni biofilm formation than the control group no meat juice added biofilm growth in pure meat juice was significantly p  0.05 lower than those cultivated with various concentrations of supplemented meat juice i.e.

likewise s. typhimurium mutants with type 1 fimbriae functional disorder i.e.fimi dbarasira3 formed signifi- cantly lower p  0.05 levels of biofilms on both glass and polystyrene compared to the wild-type strain but this defects were partially restored by the pre-coating with meat juice b. these rescued levels of biofilm of these mutants on pre-coated surfaces were compar- able to that of the wild-type strains on corresponding un-coated surfaces.the biofilm levels were enhanced by meat juice pre-coating in both static and flow culture mediaboth static and flow cultivation conditions can be encountered in the meat processing environment such as a cutting boards or sewagea1.510.5not coatedchicken juice coated pork juice coateda700060005000400030002000b01.510.5wild-typeflaabflglnot coatedchicken juice coated pork juice coatedb100001600014000120001000080006000mh-static cj-staticpj-static mh-flow cj-flowpj-flow0wild-typeflaabflgl40002000fig.

the same operation with culture broth without the addition of bacteria was also performed as a negative control group data not shown.under static conditions the fluorescence intensity of c. jejuni biofilm on meat juice pre-coated surfaces was significantly higher p  0.05 compared to that on un-coated surfaces  a. pre- coating with meat juice could massively p  0.05 enhance c. jejuni biofilm formation levels under flow condition by 2.9 to 3.2 times.

similarly biofilm formation levels of s. typhimurium were increased in the presence of the meat juice pre-coated surfaces under both static 78 enhanced and flow 132 enhanced condition b.discussionthis study applied biofilm cultivation conditions that mimic the real situation in the meat processing industry.

in the current study higher levels of biofilm formation were produced under flow condition compared to static cultivation condition although the ability of biofilm formation is generally considered to be suppressed by shear force  .

studies using other types of food ingredients such as fish milk oil and carbohydrates were also shown to enhance biofilm formation suggesting that numerous food residues might promote biofilm formation by various bacteria  .the development of bacterial biofilms on direct or indirect contact surfaces is one of the critical risk factors for the transmission of foodborne pathogens  .

we may then be in a position to develop a strategy targeting the exact components that contribute to biofilm growth and therefore achieve efficient biofilm reduction.

this study applied raw meat juice chicken juice and pork juice as a minimally processed food model to study its effects on bacterial biofilm formation.

in 96- well polystyrene plates and glass chambers supplementation of over 25 meat juice vv in laboratory media led to an increase in biofilm formation of campylobacter and salmonella.

during the initial attachment stage of biofilm development more bacterial cells were present on surfaces treated with meat juice residues compared to control surfaces.

meat juice particulates on abiotic surfaces facilitated biofilm formation of campylobacter and salmonella under both static and flow conditions with the latter being assessed using a microfluidic platform.

