The CH4-production rate of the inocu- lated reactors with an applied voltage of 0.3 V 14.35 - 4.9 mmol m-2 day-1 was indistinguishable with that without an applied voltage 0 V 16.9 - 3.2 mmol m-2 day-1.

suggests that methane was produced in the electromethanogenesis system developed at 5 MPa in similar manners In  although the CH4- production rate with an applied voltage of 0.3 V was similar to thatwithout an applied voltage the CH4 production was significantly enhanced with an applied voltage of 0.4 V. This was likely because the cathode potential became negative enough for the DET- mediated electromethanogenesis resulting in an improvement in the CH4-production rate and current-capture efficiency.

The currentepotential curve of the biocathode showed two distinct inflection points The cathodic current generation was first initiated at an onset potential of 0.32 V vs. SHE the first inflection point and relatively plateaued from 0.45 to 0.65 V vs. SHE followed by a further rise from the potential of -0.65 V vs. SHE the second inflection point.

The methane-production rate of the reactors showed an applied-voltage dependence and increased from 34.9 to168.4 mmol mL2 dayL1 with an increase in the applied voltage from 0.4 to 0.9 V. The efficiency of capturing electrons in the produced methane on average exceeded 70 with the applied voltage of 0.4 V or higher.

BIOENG.To examine the effect of applied voltage level on electro- methanogenesis at 5 MPa a range of voltage was applied at the reactors 0e0.9 V .

However the contribution of those reactions was likely much smaller than that of electromethanogenesis because the methane production without an applied voltage was at a much slower rate than those with theapplied voltage of 0.4 V or higher.At biocathodes electrons can be transferred from the cathode to the catalytic surface microorganisms biocatalysts via direct elec- tron transfer DET or mediated via hydrogen acetate or formate .

The parameters for CV were as follows equilibrium time 99 s scan rate 1 mV s-1 and scanning range -0.9 to -0.2 V vs. standard hydrogen electrode SHE for the cathode and -0.5 to 0.3 V vs. SHE for the anode.

The currentepotential curve of the bioanode showed a catalytic behavior in which the current initiated from approximately 0.4 V vs. SHE followed by a drastic increase reaching the maximum anodic current of 17 mA at 0.0 V vs. SHE.

124 2017HIGH-PRESSURE THERMOPHILIC ELECTROMETHANOGENIC SYSTEM331study has suggested that the current production between 0.32 to 0.65 V vs. SHE corresponds to the DET-mediated electromethanogesis while the current production at potentials lower than 0.65 V vs. SHE is likely due to the HER-mediated electromethanogenesis e. Voltammograms of non- inoculated electrodes showed only background level currents.Notably the catalytic behaviors of the bioelectrodes were similar to those observed with the thermophilic biolelectrodes developed at 0.12 MPa in a previous study  further suggesting that these bioelectrodes shares a similar working principle for catalyzing electrochemical reactions in electromethanogenic sys- tems under different pressure conditions.Methane production by the electromethanogenic reactor at lower pressures The performance of the electromethano- genesis system developed at 5 MPa was also examined at lower pressures 1.2 and 2.5 MPa The lower limit of the operating pres- sure was around 1 MPa due to maintain the inner pressure of the reactor for gas sampling .

The pressurized reactor was connected to DC power supply Array 3645A Array Electronics Nanjing China with the positive pole connected to the anode and thenegative pole connected to the cathode to apply a constant voltage 0.7 V during the start-up process and incubated at 55o C without agitation.

