the 112 bins that were not detected at the sub-bin level had a lower average abundance com- pared to other bins suggesting that their significance was lost due to too low power mann-whitney u-test p- value  2.210-16 additional file when the identity cut-off was increased to 75 the difference between the non-significant bins with a significant sub-bin and the significant bins without a significant sub-bin decreased 396 bins that gained significance and 292 bins that lost significance.

identification of differentially abundant genes pathways and functions can consequently be performed by statistical compari- son of the abundance of the bins between metagenomes sampled from different environments or conditions functional binning of metagenomes is today a super- vised process where a reference sequence or the sequence reads are annotated using sequence homology often usingc the authors.

thus the gsea analysis suggests that the analysis of sub-bins provides additional biological insight into the differences of the microbiome of between healthy individuals and individuals with t2d.effects seen at the sub-bin level are often diluted at the bin levelto further investigate the impact of sub-binning when using hirbin we analyzed two bins in more detail by studying the sub-binning profile for these bins at differ- ent sequence identity cutoffs.

the fold changes and false discovery rates of all bins and sub-bins at the different sequence similarity cut-offs are presented in additional file the number of detected representative sub-bins were 15740 at the 50 and 10798 at the 75 sub-binning level compared to the number of detected bins tigr- fams that were 2465. the fact that the number of sub- bins is lower at 75 identity than at 50 identity is a re- sult caused by the lack of representative sub-bins at stric- ter clustering cut-offs and reflects the high diversity oftenseen between gut metagenome from different individuals  .

the analysis using hirbin at 50 and 75 sequence similarity was compared to the analysis using tigrfam annotations without sub-binning bins.

pfam 1 which effects differential abundance between metagenomes can be found at a more specific functional level and 2 are those effects overlooked when comparing the metagenomes at the general functional levelto answer these questions and to be able to detectchanges at a more specific functional level we have devel- oped a new method for gene-centric analysis of metagen- omes called hirbin.

thus at a 50 sequence identity cutoff hirbin identified 987 add- itional bins where the significant effect only could be identified at a more specific level while the effect was lost for 112 bins.

and as a result the power decreased from 91.1 at the correct level sequence identify cut-off of 80 to 66.8. at 50 the fold-change had decreased further 71.4 and thepower was as low as 15.9. at the bin level the effect was almost completely gone with a fold-change reduction of 82.1 and a statistical power close to 0 2.2. the lack of power of performing the statistical analysis at the bin level was further evaluated by repeating the above analysis but with effects added at 50 60 and 70 respectively.

the sequence similarity cutoff in the sub- binning step should thus be chosen in a way to assure that the clusters are large enough to be representative over the samples but still specific enough to capture the effect at the right functional level.previous shotgun metagenomics studies both fromthe human microbiome and environmental samples have shown that natural microbial communities are very com- plex and show a high diversity both at the species and consequently the functional level in order to capture the change in abundance between different samples in the binning process it is therefore necessary to first capture the high diversity present in each func- tional domain.

the assembled metagenomes from the selected individ- uals were annotated using tigrfam functional domains to define bins which were then further divided into sub- bins.

hirbin uses a data- centric approach to improve gene quantification where bins are identified by supervised annotation using known functional domains and then divided into sub- bins using unsupervised clustering over all samples.

furthermore integrative analysis using gsea showed compared to the analysis using traditional bins a highernumber of significantly over-represented gene ontology terms when using sub-bins calculated with hirbin.

hirbin can be used for the entire ana- lysis including supervised functional annotation binning unsupervised clustering of the bins sub-binning quanti- fication and statistical analysis.

in the unsupervised annotation step sub- binning step the amino acid sequences of the annotated domains are clustered based on sequence similarity using a provided sequence similarity cutoff which gener- ates the sub-bins.

the coordinates of the annotated genes were converted from amino acid sequences to nucleotide refer- ence coordinates to facilitate in mapping the raw reads to the reference sequence for each annotated domain.unsupervised clusteringthe protein sequences belonging to each tigrfam do- main is for a given amino acid sequence similarity cutoff clustered by hirbin using either uclust clusterfast in usearch v8.0 or agglomerative hierarchical clustering clusteragg in usearch v8.0 .

