Thus the enzyme system that depolymerizes wine and apple RG-II is capable of degrading the glycan from all other plant sources.Purifying RG-II--RG-II from wine was purified as described previously26.

The degradome informs revision of the current structural model of RG-II and highlights how individual gut bacteria orchestrate manifold enzymes to metabolize the most challenging glycans in the human diet.Plants containing rhamnogalacturonan-II RG-II have been consumed since the archaic humans1.

To test this hypothesis the mechanism by which B. thetaiotaomicron degrades RG-II was elucidated.Growth of HGM Bacteroides on RG-IITo explore whether single organisms grow on RG-II the glycan was incubated with Bacteroides species of the HGM.

Transcriptomic analysis of one of these species B. thetaiotaomicron showed that RG-II upregulates three polysaccharide utilization loci PULs RG-II PUL1-PUL3 Extended data Fig.

The widespread presence of these newly discovered enzyme families in Bacteroidetes and other bacterial phyla and the occurrence of GH139 GH140 GH141 and GH142 in fungi suggest that these enzymes contribute to glycan degradation in diverse environments.The generic relevance of RG-II PUL1 in RG-II utilization was supported by bioinformatic analysis.

3.A model for RG-II degradationA hierarchical model for the RG-II degradome is proposed Fig.

These data indicate that borate only bound to D-Apif in full length Chain A explaining how initial degradation of this side chain relieved steric constraints imposed by the oxyanion.Ndeh et al.Page 6The species-dependent variation of the terminal region of Chain B in RG-II1920 Supplementary Discussion 1.0 may explain why RG-II PUL3 encodes several putative GHs that may contribute to degradation of all RG-II structures.

The D1683Dbt1682 mutant grew on apple but not wine RG-II while the Dbt1024Dbt1029 variant deletion of suschsusdh in RG-II PUL1 metabolized the glycan from wine but slowly from apple Fig.

These data suggest that the multiple SusChSusDh pairs encoded by the RG-II PULs are required to import plant-specific variants of RG-II.New features of RG-II structureThe specificity of the RG-II-degradome shows that the current model of the glycan requires revision.

The final pellet was redissolved in 0.5 L of ultrapure water and freeze-dried to obtain crude RG-II apple material.HPAEC analysis showed that the crude apple RG-II was contaminated with arabinan and galactan.

