experiments that cohouse one or both sexes without sexual contact and that explicitly manipulate fecal exposure are required to test whether non-sexual social interactions could also elicit the response of the gut microbiome we observed.changes in host physiology in response to social interaction or lack thereof could also explain shifts in microbiome structure.

protein supple- mentation also did not affect the gut microbiome in decorated crickets suggesting that insensitivity of gut microbes to dietary protein could contribute to the lack of an effect of nuptial gift consumption.

hormones that regulate appetite energy expenditure and metabolism are thought to affect the gut microbiome by altering immune function mucous production in the gut epithelia and food intake spor et al.

environmental microbiology reports 2017 92 104-112doi10.11111758-2229.12506partitioning the effects of mating and nuptial feeding on the microbiome in gift-giving insectschad c. smith1 robert b. srygley2 emma i. dietrich1 and ulrich g. mueller11department of integrative biology 1 university station c0990 university of texas at austin austin tx 78712 usa.2northern plains area research laboratory usda-agricultural research service 1500 n. central avenue sidney mt 59270 usasummarymating is a ubiquitous social interaction with the potential to influence the microbiome by facilitating transmission modifying host physiology and in spe- cies where males donate nuptial gifts to females altering diet.

we manipulated mating and nuptial gift consumption in two insects that differ in nuptial gift size the mormon cricket anabrus simplex and the decorated cricket gryllodes sigillatus with the expec- tation that larger gifts are more likely to affect the gut microbiome.

our study provides experimental evidence that sexual interactions can affect the microbiome and suggests mating can promote beneficial gut bacteria.received 21 august 2016 accepted 27 october 2016. for corre- spondence.

these nuptial gifts are not necessarily expected to provide a nutritional benefit only properties that distract the female long enough for sperm transfer to complete vahed 2007. in contrast the spermatophylax is expected to be nutritious when it serves as a form of paternal investment that increases the number or quality of offspring sired by the male gwynne 2008. which of these two explana- tions is correct is likely to have important implications for how nuptial gifts influence the microbiome as protein intake can induce rapid changes in the gut microbial com- munities wu et al.

2014.we manipulated nuptial feeding and mating to measure their effects on the gut microbiome in two insects that dif- fer in the size of their gifts the mormon cricket anabrus simplex orthoptera tettiginiidae and the decorated cricket gryllodes sigillatus orthoptera gryllidae.

we assessed these alternatives by screening male and female reproductive tissues for bacteria and measuring components of the immune system that are known to change in response to mating in insects.results and discussionmating and the microbiomewe found that mating but not spermatophylax consumption influenced the structure of the gut microbiome of mormon crickets fig.

2000.nuptial gift consumption and the microbiomein contrast to our expectation that larger nuptial gifts should elicit a greater change in microbiome composi- tion spermatophylax consumption did not affect the gut bacterial communities in either species table 1 and table s1 supporting information.

if the increase in hemo- lymph protein was due to higher protein intake however it does not appear to have an overwhelming effect on microbiome structure table 1. although their spermato- phylax is relatively large and females compete for spermatophylax-producing males under low nutrient con- ditions gwynne 1984b 1993 studies that explicitly measure the composition and nutritional effects of sper- matophylax consumption on female mormon crickets are needed.second nuptial gifts might not influence the gut micro- biome because of a lack of sensitivity to dietary protein irrespective of the nutritional properties of the gift itself.

group membership dominance rank social interaction networks to infer their relation- ship archie and tung 2015. to our knowledge our study is the first to use such an experimental approach to show that sexual interactions affect the structure of the gut microbiome.

et al 2014 diet rapidly and reproducibly alters the human gut microbiome.

and bale t.l.2015 alterations in the vaginal microbiome by maternal stress are associated with metabolic reprogramming of the offspring gut and brain.

kuczynski j. knights d. clemente j.c. gonza'lez a. fontana l. et al 2011 diet drives con- vergence in gut microbiome functions across mammalian phylogeny and within humans.

