this provides additional support for the use of il-1b blockers in the treatment of majeed syndrome.murine chronic multifocal osteomyelitis cmo and the microbiomethe cmo mouse develops sterile osteomyelitis due to recessive mutations in pstpip2 which encodes proline-serine-threonine phosphatase interacting protein -2 pstpip2 or ppip2 25 26. pstpip2 deficient mice develop sterile osteomyelitis with 100 penetrance with majority being affected by 8 to 12 weeks of age 25 26. the disease in the cmo mouse is hematopoietically driven and occurs independent of a functional adaptive immune system 45. our group and others demonstrated that disease in the cmo mice is an il-1 dependent disorder and that it is il-1b not il-1a mediated using double mutant mice 46 47.despite being il-1b dependent the disease in cmo mice can occur independent of a functional nlrp3 inflammasome as cmo mice that are also deficient in either nlrp3 asc or caspase-1 continue to develop osteomyelitis 46 47. however others suggest that caspase-1cox et al.page 5and caspase-8 may play a redundant role in the processing of il-1b in the cmo model 47 and cmo mice that are deficient in both caspase-1 and caspase-8 are partially protected from disease 48. furthermore nlrp3 may be playing a redundant role with caspase 8 in osteomyelitis in the cmo model because cmo mice that are deficient in nlrp3 ripk3 and caspase-8 cmo.nlrp3--.ripk3--.caspase8-- are also partially protected from disease 48.in addition to demonstrating that disease in the cmo mouse is an il-1b mediated disease there is new data that the cmo microbiome is altered and that dietary changes can modulate the development of sterile osteomyelitis in this model.

however transfer of stool from a cmo mouse fed with high fat diet into a young disease-free cmo mouse decreases the prevotella species and protects the recipient from disease 49. cmo neutrophils from high fat diet fed cmo mice produced less il-1b compared to cmo mice on a low fat diet 49. antibody mediated depletion of neutrophils in vivo in the cmo mice completely protects from disease 49 demonstrating their importance in the development of osteomyelitis.crmo and fblim1recently we reported on a south asian child with consanguineous parents who presented with crmo and psoriasis 29. whole exome sequencing detected a rare homozygous missense mutation in the gene fblim1 which codes for fblp1 a filamin-binding protein that anchors cytoskeletal adhesion proteins at cell-extracellular matrix ecm and cell-cell contacts 50 51. in mice fblp1 is essential for balanced bone remodeling fblim1-- mice have increased rankl expression osteoclast activation and subsequent osteopenia 52. in macrophages fblim1 expression is significantly increased in il-10 treated cells compared to untreated cells and this upregulation is a function of regulation by stat3 as part of the anti-inflammatory response 53. we performed a microarray experiment measuring gene expression among bone marrow-derived macrophages from cmo mice cmo il1r-- mice and cmo il1r- mice and fblim1 was the most significantly differentially expressed gene downregulated 26-fold in the cmo mouse 29. sequencing fblim1 in a large cohort of crmo patients identified a second child harboring compound heterozygous functional mutations a novel frameshift mutation and a rare variant in the third intron 29. the intronic variant rs41310367 is in an enhancer and a stat3 binding region as characterized by encode 54 and disrupts an nr4a2 recognition site 29. functional validation of rs41310367 in osteoblast-like cells showed that the region surrounding the variant exhibited significant enhancer activity and that the mutation completely negated the activity 29.fblp1 binds to filamin fln in competition with integrin b fblp1-filamin binding releases and thereby promotes integrin b activation 55 56. integrin b is a component of macrophage-1 mac-1 a complement receptor whose activation contributes to neutrophilcox et al.page 6recruitment during sterile inflammation 57. the homozygous mutation in the south asian child is in the fln-binding domain of fblp1 so while experimental validation is necessary it is likely that the mutation disrupts fblp1-fln binding impacting integrin b activation and neutrophil infiltration.

2015 jul 4271245-51. pubmed 25979712gleeson h wiltshire e briody j hall j chaitow j sillence d et al.

described significantly higher expression of apoptosis-associated speck-like protein asc caspase-1 casp-1 andil-1b expression at the mrna level in peripheral mononuclear blood cells from children with active disease than healthy children and those with inactive disease 11. hofmann et al.

2000 1373441-2.donkor j zhang p wong s o'loughlin l dewald j kok bp et al.

experiments using the mouse model also demonstrated that the environment can significantly alter disease susceptibility as cmo mice develop an altered gut microbiome and marked disease protection when fed a high fat diet.

2014 jan 21 11131072-7. demonstrates the critical role of il1 signaling in sterile osteomyelitis in the cmo mouse and implicated the neutrophil in disease pathogenesis.

prevotella species 49. transfer of stool from a cmo diseased mouse fed with low fat diet into a young disease-free cmo mouse accelerates disease.

published in final edited form ascurr rheumatol rep. 2017 april  194 18. doi10.1007s11926-017-0645-9.chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis and related diseases - update on pathogenesisallison j. cox phd1 yongdong zhao md phd2 and polly j. ferguson md131university of iowa carver college of medicine department of pediatrics iowa city ia usa2pediatric rheumatology seattle children's hospital department of pediatrics university of washington seattle wa3inflammation program at the university of iowaabstractpurpose of the review--we focus on recent advances in the understanding of the genetic molecular immunologic and environmental factors implicated in the pathogenesis of autoinflammatory bone diseases including the syndromic and non-syndromic forms of chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis crmo.recent findings--evidence implicating the il-1 pathway in the pathogenesis of the mendelian forms of crmo is growing.

however the serum cytokines and chemokines described above have been proposed as biomarkers to monitor disease activity in crmo and will need further validation through prospective studies.treatments for crmo remain empirical with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs nsaids as the first-line of treatment 15 16. there are case reports describing affected children who failed nsaids but were treated with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs dmards such as tnf alpha inhibitors il-1 antagonists bisphosphonates and glucocorticoids inducing remission in many of the patients 10 17. in some cases a combination of treatments was utilized to manage the inflammation.

all but one had microcytic red cells and six required blood transfusions at some point in their disease course 31 32. two recent reports describe mutation-positive majeed syndrome with very mild phenotypes with an older age of onset as old as 8 years and a milder bone disease that mimic non-syndromic crmo 30 36.the outcomes in majeed syndrome are more variable than the children initially reported by dr. majeed and colleagues.

aggressive therapy reduces disease activity without skeletal damage progression in chronic nonbacterial osteomyelitis.

2007 mar 563960-4. pubmed 17330256donkor j sariahmetoglu m dewald j brindley dn reue k. three mammalian lipins act as phosphatidate phosphatases with distinct tissue expression patterns.

one of whom had only very mild normocytic anemia andcox et al.page 4mild crmo with onset of disease at 8 years of age 36. treatment of majeed syndrome remains empiric with reports of partial improvement with nsaids steroids methotrexate or pamidronate 30-33 36. however herlin et al.

the role of the diet in pathogenesis needs to be explored in human crmo as this is a potentially highly applicable discovery that could alter how we approach treatment.acknowledgmentspjf is supported by the national institute of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases at the national institutes of health 2r01ar059703.referenceswipff j costantino f lemelle i pajot c duquesne a lorrot m et al.

