alleles at all loci in isolates of known host origin were assigned to the host training data set and the probability of correct host population attribution was recorded.

alleles at all loci in isolates of known host origin were assigned to the host training data set and the probability of correct host population attribution was recorded to determine the host-segregating power of each locus.

to identify these loci we assigned alleles at all loci in isolates of known host origin to host source training data sets and recorded the probability of correct host population in self-attribution as in previous studies using seven mlst genes .

however among french clinical isolates approximately equal proportions of isolates were attributed to chicken and ruminant reservoirs suggesting possible differences in the relative importance of animal host reservoirs and indicating a benefit for further national- scale attribution modeling to account for differences in production behavior and food consumption.importance accurately quantifying the relative contribution of different host res- ervoirs to human campylobacter infection is an ongoing challenge.

these 15 loci thus allowed an average correct host attribution of 80.7 in chicken populations and 68.2 in ruminant populations whichfig 2 correct host assignment accuracy in self-attribution tests of 1810 core soft-core or accessory genes in c. jejuni isolates from chicken yellow and ruminants blue.

the greater difference in correct host attribution with mlst observed between chicken and ruminant 22.3 could lead to a bias in host assignment with the overestimation of attribution to a particular reservoir.source attribution of british and french clinical cases and pet c. jejuni isolates.

this source attribution approach has been applied to campylobacter mainly using mlst data emphasizing a significant role for the chicken reservoir in humaninfection  .the increasing use of whole-genome sequencing wgs data sets is enhancing understanding of the genetic basis of campylobacter host ecology and transmission  .

.zilbauer m dorrell n elmi a lindley kj schuller s jones he klein nj nunez g wren bw bajaj-elliott m. 2007. a major role for intestinal epithelial nucleotide oligomerization domain 1 nod1 in eliciting host bactericidal immune responses to campylobacter jejuni.

.hermans d pasmans f messens w martel a van immerseel f rass- chaert g heyndrickx m van deun k haesebrouck f. 2012. poultry as a host for the zoonotic pathogen campylobacter jejuni.

2011. niche segregation and genetic structure of campylobacter jejuni populations from wild and agricultural host spe- cies.

2014. cryptic ecology among host generalist campylobacter jejuni in domestic animals.

campylo- bacteriosis mostly caused by campylobacter jejuni and campylobacter coli  is char- acterized by acute diarrhea abdominal pain headache and nausea  and can lead to guillain-barre syndrome  and inflammatory bowel syndromes including crohn's disease  .

2008. epidemiology of campylobacter jejuni infections in industrialized nations p 163-189. in nachamkin i szymanski c blaser m ed campylobacter 3rd ed.

the evolution of genomic signatures of host association requires that strains are genetically isolated in a specific host niche for long enough for adaptation and genetic drift to lead to host-associated sequence variation in the genome.

therefore while targeting genetic variation across the genome increases the chances of identifying variation that segregates by host rapid zoonotic transmission may erode host association signatures.

