microbiota that exhibit flexible changes and overlapping indigo-reduc- ing abilities among co-occurring microorganisms are con- sidered important factors for the maintenance of a reducing fermentation state.in the case of soy sauce fermentation although the microbiota changes dynamically as fermentation contin- ues changes toward the ultimate microbiota occur within approximately 8 months wei et al.

the early-phase microbiota may fluctuate depending on the material and preparation proce- dure and the transitional change of the microbiota may also differ depending on the original microbiota and the mainte- nance procedure.

the results of 16s rrna gene-targeting molecular analyses showed that non- indigo-reducing haloalkaliphilic halomonas populations were drastically substituted with indigo-reducing amphi- bacillus populations and these substitution correspond to significant increases in the state of indigo reduction.the natural occurrence of proper microbiota for fermen- tation and the maintenance of reduced states by the action of the microbiota depends on the applied materials i.e.

however the mechanisms underlying the main- tenance of reduced state in the indigo fermentation fluid by the microbiota over such a long period remain unclear particularly because the microbiota should be changed over this long period because of the considerable opportunities for contamination via the artisans' hands or by the cloths used in the dyeing process.

in the d2-14m samples variations in the microbiota were decreased compared with that of the younger samples and the microbiota mainly consisted of obligate anaerobic bac- teria which may be a characteristic of the ultimate micro- biota of the indigo fermentation.

world j microbiol biotechnol 2017 3370 doi 10.1007s11274-017-2238-1analysis of microbiota involved in the aged natural fermentation of indigotakahiro okamoto12  kenichi aino13  takashi narihiro4  hidetoshi matsuyama2  isao yumoto134received 6 october 2016  accepted 3 march 2017  published online 11 march 2017c springer sciencebusiness media dordrecht 2017abstract although the indigo reduction process is per- formed via natural fermentation and maintained under open-air condition the indigo-reducing reactions continue for 6 months on average or longer.

to determine the mechanisms underlying the maintenance of the indigo fermentation system microbiota for more than 6 months in a reduced state in an anaerobic alkaline environment we examined changes in the microbi- ota in one early-phase batch and two aged batches of indigo fermentation fluid.

the microbiota in the aged fermenta- tion fluid consisted mainly of the genera alkalibacterium amphibacillus anaerobacillus and polygonibacillus and the family proteinivoraceae.

although the transition speedwas slower in the aged fermentation fluid than in the early- stage fluid the microbiota in the aged fermentation fluid maintained for more than 6 months was drastically changed within a period of 3 months.

however if the microbiota is not appropriate then the reduced state of the indigo fer- mentation lasts for only a few months.

in this study we focused on long-lasting longer than 6 months indigo fermentation fluids and studied the char- acteristics of the microbiota.

in addition we attempted to identify the characteristics and dynamics of the microbiota in the long-lasting indigo fermentation fluids in a reduced state under natural fermentation conditions in the open air.

the changes to the microbiota in one early-phase batch of indigo fermentation fluid and two aged batches were examined.materials and methodsindigo fermentation samplesaliquots from two different batches of indigo fermenta- tion aged 6 and 10 months d1-6m and d1-10m respec- tively and aged 9 11 and 14 months d2-9m d2-11m and d2-14m respectively were obtained from the indigo fermentation craft centre in date city hokkaido japan 42deg 28' 14.977''n 140deg 52' 31.648''e.

however the microbiota was different because of subtle changes in the procedure based on natural fermentation.

therefore the same preparation procedure cannot assure the same microbiota in the initial phase or the long- lasting fer- mentation.

