2 the duration of the preparatory phase was on average 1-36 h for E. coli isolated from the FMF participants before the probiotic Narine or pla-Yb FMF participant isolate 1-1 2y  -09959x  20303R 2  099411T hcebo were administered this is significantly shorter P  0-001 than that for strains of the healthy study participants.The duration of the logarithmic growth phase T1 - Te for the E. coli strains isolated from FMF- positive study participants was on average 0-68 h. The logarithmic growth phase of E. coli isolated from healthy0012345-1-2Figure 1 Linear anamorphoses of logistic function for the growth kinetic of curves of Escherichia coli from healthy a and familial Mediterranean fever b participants.

2011 successfully used this model to investigate the influence the physiological state of E. coli cells had on the expression of the soluble protein a recombinant analogue of glycoprotein G of Herpes simplex virus of type 2.Thus the administration of the commercial Narine for- mulation of probiotic Lactobacillus acidophilus INMIA 9602 Er-2 strain 317402 to FMF volunteers caused signif- icant extension of the preparatory growth phase in gut commensal E. coli as compared to the E. coli isolated from FMF patients without administration of Narine.

2015.Therefore the aim of this study was to investigate whether the consumption of the probiotic Narine would have an impact on the growth characteristics of commen- sal E. coli isolates from the gut microbiota of FMF- positive study participants using Verhulst's function as a tool for quantification.Results and discussionCalculation of critical points in Verhulst's equationFor the approximation of empirical growth curves the logistic function of Verhulst was used in the following form to calculate the growth of gut commensal E. coli Gasparyan et al.

The calculation of critical points on a growth curve allows for the identification of different phases of growth in the microbial population that correspond to different physio- logical states in bacterial cells.Growth characteristics of predominant E. coli isolates012345-1-2Table 1 shows the calculated mean values and standard errors of growth parameters of predominant E. coli iso- lated from the FMF-positive participants.

The study described the changes in growth characteristics of commensal E. coli which are similar to data in the current study.Growth characteristics of predominant commensal E. coli isolates from the gut microbiota of FMF-positive participants after probiotic therapyThe results of the investigations are presented in Table 2.

Our previous studies indicated that the E. coli strain isolated from the gut microbiota of breast cancer patients had a signifi- cantly lower specific growth rate and reached significantly lower total biomass under aerobic and anaerobic growth conditions as compared to E. coli strains isolated from the gut of a healthy individual Mirzoyan et al.

Experimental data  specific growth rate h-1 .maintaining homeostasis and are essential for immuno- logical processes treatment Hakansson and Molin 2011.The present study shows the effect of Narine on com- mensal E. coli particularly the duration of the preparatorywith CD was slower than the growth of E. coli isolated from healthy individuals Gasparyan et al.

Bacterial growth of 192 prevalent commensal E. coli isolates found in the volunteer participants' guts was evaluated using Verhulst's logistic function.

This study showed that the duration of the preparatory growth phase for the E. coli isolates collected from FMF-positive volunteers was significantly shorter whereas the duration of the logarithmic growth phase was significantly longer P  0-03 than that of the isolates collected from healthy participants.

The Narine probiotic formulation caused a significant extension P  0-001 of the preparatory growth phase in the commensal E. coli isolated from FMF subjects a month after the Narine probiotic administration was terminated.

