following vaginal delivery proteobacteria especially en- terobacteriaceae are dominant within 3 months after birth while bacteroidetes and firmicutes become more prevalent as the gut microbiota matures towards an adult-like profile a bloom of proteobacteria in the gut can indicate instability in the microbial community greater abundance along with a higher abundance of streptococci in 6-month-old infants has predicted fu- ture adiposity using the eb ratio as an indicator for gut microbiota maturity we previously reported that a higher ratio predicted food sensitization at age 1  in the current study pet exposure lowered the eb ratio in vaginally born infants exposed to iap.

infant gut microbiota and the hygiene hypothesis of allergic disease impact of household pets and siblings on microbiota composition and diversity.

these families of the firmicutes are obligate anaerobes which reduce the oxidative state of the gut  they are common constituents of the gut microbiota of healthy infants and severely depleted in malnourished infants .

following birth the gut microbiota of newborns is characterized by low diversity dominated by facultative anaerobes such as the proteobacteria after which the diversity of strict anaerobes within the firmicutes and bacteroidetes phyla increases towards an adult-like profile by 1 year of age -throughout this development microbial compos- ition is shaped by a number of factors including gesta- tional age mode of delivery vaginal vs. caesarean infant diet breast milk vs. formula and antibiotic treat- ment direct vs. indirect via mother among sev- eral environmental determinants that influence postnatal gut microbial development rising rates of pet ownership globally have stimulated interest on the impact of house- hold furry pets.the notion that pets provide an immune benefit to human health stems from the hygiene hypothesis first proposed by david strachan in 1989 and subse- quently supported by several epidemiological studies -which attributes risk of allergic disease to overly hygienic environments.

signifi- cant differences by pet ownership were found according to study location p  0.001 maternal race p  0.001 and type of home p  0.007.overall community structure of gut microbiota diversity and richness of gut microbiotasignificant microbial community differences were de- tected by permanova by prenatal pseudo f  2.03 p 0.001 as well as pre- and postnatal exposures pseudo f  1.51 p  0.005 in all children.

inde- pendent associations between microbiota abundance and pet exposure were tested by multiple variable logistic re- gression with microbiota measures categorised as above and below the median.to identify discriminative taxonomic biomarkers the linear discriminant analysis effect size lefse was deter- mined with a lda log score cut-off of 2 followed by the kruskal-wallis test with the dunn's multiple comparison test using no pet exposure as the reference group.

in a subgroup of these iap-exposed infants who were not exclusively breastfed afterwards the ruminococcaceae population was signifi- cantly enriched by prenatal pet exposure alone p  0.002 and log lda score of 4.2 additional file table s6 and additional file figure s1.among the few associations found in infants delivered by scheduled cs a threefold likelihood in high abundance oftable 2 relative abundance of dominant phyla and families in faecal microbiota of infants at 3-4 months according to birth scenarios and pet exposurebirth scenariosdominant taxaapet exposure status n  746table 2 relative abundance of dominant phyla and families in faecal microbiota of infants at 3-4 months according to birth scenarios and pet exposure continuediqr interquartile range fb firmicutesbacteroidetes fp firmicutesproteobacteria eb enterobacteriaceaebacteroidaceae fdr false discovery ratepost hoc comparisons between no exposure group and either group of exposure were done by mann-whitney u test.

of note enrichment in faecal oscillospira was among the few changes observed for pet ownership within infants delivered by scheduled cs.oscillospira is an enigmatic bacterium which has never been isolated in culture but has been detected by 16s rrna gene surveys of the human microbiome intable 3 relative abundance of dominant genera in faecal microbiota of infants at 3-4 months according to birth scenarios and pet exposuretable 3 relative abundance of dominant genera in faecal microbiota of infants at 3-4 months according to birth scenarios and pet exposure continuediqr interquartile range fdr false discovery ratepost hoc comparisons between no exposure group and either group of exposure were done by mann-whitney u test.

microbiome 2017 540doi 10.1186s40168-017-0254-xexposure to household furry pets influences the gut microbiota of infants at 3-4 months following various birth scenarioshein m. tun1 theodore konya2 tim k. takaro3 jeffrey r. brook2 radha chari4 catherine j. field5 david s. guttman6 allan b. becker7 piush j. mandhane1 stuart e. turvey8 padmaja subbarao9 malcolm r. sears10 james a. scott2anita l. kozyrskyj1 and the child study investigatorsabstractbackground early-life exposure to household pets has the capacity to reduce risk for overweight and allergic disease especially following caesarean delivery.

to investigate the impact of pre- and postnatal pet exposure on infant gut microbiota following various birth scenarios this study employed a large subsample of 746 infants from the canadian healthy infant longitudinal development study child cohort whose mothers were enrolled during pregnancy between 2009 and 2012. participating mothers were asked to report on household pet ownership at recruitment during the second or third trimester and 3 months postpartum.

infant gut microbiota were profiled with 16s rrna sequencing from faecal samples collected at the mean age of 3.3 months.

all of these associations were independent of maternal asthmaallergy status siblingship breastfeeding exclusivity and other home characteristics.conclusions the impact of pet ownership varies under different birth scenarios however in common exposure to pets increased the abundance of two bacteria ruminococcus and oscillospira which have been negatively associated with childhood atopy and obesity.keywords pets infant gut microbiota birth prenatal postnatal correspondence 1department of pediatrics university of alberta 3-527 edmonton clinic health academy 11405-87th avenue edmonton ab t6g ic9 canada full list of author information is available at the end of the articlec the authors.

1 a pet exposure and other covariates at prenatal and postnatal that influence the infant gut microbiota.

b general impact of pet exposure and other covariates on gut microbiota measurements of infants at 3-4 months.

as shown in previous reports   ratios of specific taxa are commonly evaluated due to the co-existence nature of gut microbiota.

