these particles can attach to the lungs and transport into the bloodstream  some are even found in the human brain .smog and human healthhigh death rates were observed in areas with elevated ambient pollution levels.

gill et al consider the human body as a superorganism with distinctive contributions from both microbes and the human host.

ereview articlesmog induces oxidative stress and microbiota disruptiontit-yee wongdepartment of biological sciences university of memphis memphis tn 38120 usaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 22 february 2017accepted 22 february 2017available online 15 march 2017keywords culturomics human microbiota nanoparticles oxidative stress pm2.5smoga b s t r a c t smog is created through the interactions between pollutants in the air fog and sunlight.

air pollutants such as carbon monoxide heavy metals nitrogen oxides ozone sulfur dioxide volatile organic vapors and particulate matters can induce oxidative stress in human directly or indirectly through the formation of reactive oxygen species.

the outermost boundary of human skin and mucous layers are covered by a complex network of human-associated microbes.

the relation between these microbial communities and their human host are mostly mutualistic.

these microbes not only provide nutrients vi- tamins and protection against other pathogens they also influence human's physical immunological nutritional and mental developments.

additionally information on microbiota disruption based on functional geno- mics culturomics and general ecological principles should be included in the risk assessment of prolonged smog exposure to the health of human populations.copyright c 2017 food and drug administration taiwan.

the increase in production of goods and expansion in human population has changed the ways we communicate.

they have become major sources of air pollution e. human population expansion also complicates the air quality.

treatment of human wastes such as incinerators landfills and sewage treatment plants produces various toxic gasses that are air polluting e. more than 100 toxic gasses are released from landfills .

air toxics can cause cancer and other serious health including human reproduction and birth defects.

air toxics also cause adverse environmental and many ecological problems .we briefly introduce the six main air pollutants related to human health.vocs are produced from trees plants cars or industrial emissions.

the major target of co in humans is the cardiorespiratory system of the human body .sulfur dioxide so2 is created by coal-burning power plants and diesel fuels from motor vehicles.

the human lipoprotein apolipoprotein e is produced by the liver and white blood cells and by astrocytes in the brain.

