Immunohistochemistry revealed that Ki67 positivity was higher in mice fed with a control diet with 60 of mice displaying the highest positive levels Figure D panel c while in the ERS diet group 40 of mice were positive for Ki67 staining while the remaining 60 of mice were mildly positive panel d. Consistently qRT-PCR showed a significant reduction in Ki67 mRNA expression in tumor biopsies of mice fed with an ERS diet compared with mice fed with a control diet Figure E. Additionally ERK12 and mTOR with its direct substrates p70S6K were determined by Western blot in a subset of mice treated with a control diet or an ERS diet.

Pancreatic cancer xenograft mice were subjected to an ERS diet to assess tumor volume and weight as compared to mice fed with a control diet.

In in vitro growth experiments the fecal microbial cultures from mice fed with an ERS diet showed enhanced growth on residual substrates higher production of formate and lactate and decreased amounts of propionate compared to fecal microbiota from mice fed with the control diet.

Consistently in an in vivo model of xenograft pancreatic cancer gemcitabine administered to 24 h-fasted mice significantly decreased tumor volume as compared to control mice .

As shown in Figure AB mice subjected to the ERS diet displayed a slight but significant retarded progression of pancreatic cancer tumor p  0.04 as compared to control mice.

No significant differences in total body weight were observed between the two mice groups Figure C.We then assessed the expression of proliferation and cell deathapoptosis markers in pancreatic cancer biopsies from mice.

were the dominant species 5-20 and 6-8 respectively in cancer-xenografted mice fed with the control diet while species of Blautia and Aeromonas were dominant over 15 in cancer-xenografted mice fed with the ERS diet.

Consistent results were obtained in vivo where xenografted mice fed an ERS diet showed significant retardation in tumor growth as compared to mice fed a control diet.

Decreased acetate to propionate ratio 1.1 has been observed also in an experiment where rats were fed an inulin-enriched diet while on ordinary starch diet the ratio was 2.8 .Of note even though butyrate was below the level of detection a remarkable increase 17 vs. 3 in Lachnospiraceae potentially harboring butyrate producers was observed in mice fed the ERS diet compared to mice fed the control diet after cancer induction.

Figure S1 Immunoblot detecion of relative phospho-ERK12 normalized to total ERK12 protein expression p  0.098 A in control xenograft PC mice' biospies ctrl and mice fed with ERS diet.

