the level of sod activity decreased significantly p  0.05 for all sea cucumbers one day after v. splendidus challenge but sea cucumbers that were fed with the diet containing 2.0 tis still exhibited significantly higher sod activity than that of the group fed with the control diet.the level of acp activity in the coelomic fluid of sea cucumbers fed with tis diet appeared to increase compared to those fed with the control diet .

one day after v. splendidus challenge acp activity in all sea cucumbers underwent significant decreases with the control group showing the lowest activity while the 0.5 and1.0 tis groups as well as the antibiotic group still maintained a significantly p  0.05 higher level of activity than the control group.sea cucumbers fed with tis diets exhibited a significantly p  0.05 higher level of alp activity than those fed with the control diet .

however the group fed with 2.0 tis diet still maintained a significantly higher concentration of c3 than the antibiotic group.intestinal micro flora countsthe number of bacillus in the gut of sea cucumbers fed with tis diets all increased compared to those fed with the control diet but only the increase exhibited by the 1 and 2 tis were significant.

a total of 165 sea cucumbers were randomly divided into five groups two groups were fed with basal diet bd but one of the groups was used as an antibiotic control group in which the sea cucumbers were soaked in 20 ppm norfloxacin for 20 min once a week.

in this study the number of b. subtilis and lactobacillus were found to increase significantly after the sea cucumbers were fed with tis-containing diet compared to those of control sea cucumbers.

within groups lsz activity was significantly p  0.05 increased 24 h after exposure to v. splendidus.sea cucumbers fed with tis diet exhibited significant p  0.05 increase in sod activity compared to those fed with the control diet .

how- ever after v. splendidus challenge only the 1.0 tis group exhibited significant p  0.05 increase in cat activity relative to the control group.sea cucumbers fed with 0.5 or 2.0 tis diet or the antibiotic group exhibited significant p  0.05 increase in the concentration of c3 relative to those fed with the control diet .

the proportion of vibrio in sea cucumbers fed with 1 tis diet decreased by 67compared to the control group.table 6specific growth rate sgr of apostichopus japonicus fed with four different diets.

sea cucumbers fed with tis diets showed significantly p  0.05 enhanced growth performance compared to those fed with the control diet as shown by increases in sgr .

moreover as the main pathogens of sea cucumber vibrio was found to decrease in tis-fed sea cucumbers compared to control sea cucumbers and the same result was obtained from plate dilution method.

the specific growth rate sgr of tis-fed sea cucumbers was significantly enhanced whereas no significant difference in sgr was observed between those soaked in antibiotics and those fed with basal diet only.

however the values of these immune indexes were still significantly higher compared to those of the control groups p  0.05. intestinal micro flora counts and high-throughput sequencing showed that dietary tis could improve the amount of probiotic bacteria yielding a 6-fold increase in bacillus and 10-fold increase in lactobacillus for sea cucumbers fed with 2.0 tis diet compared to the control.

furthermore tis-containing diet also greatly reduced the number of harmful bacteria with the number of vibrio in sea cucumbers fed with 1tis diet decreased by 67 compared to the control.

in this study sea cucumbers were fed with a diet containing different percentages of tis for 30 days and the non-specific pa- rameters gut microbiota profile and of the animals were evaluated following exposure to vibrio splendidus.materials and methodspreparation of test dietstussah immunoreactive substance was prepared in our labora- tory as previously described .

sea cucumbers were fed with different diets for 30 days and the level of phagocytic activity was measured before 0 day and 1 day after v. splendidus challenge.

