clin ther 2015 37 2071-84.whitehead we duffy k sharpe j nabata t bruce m. randomised clinical trial exploratory phase 2 study of ono-2952 in diarrhoea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.

there was no change in gastrointestinal symptoms and although there were no differences in specific bacterial taxa throughout the study volume of gas evacuated at the end of supplementation inversely correlated with abundances of certain intestinal bacteria including lach- nospiraceae which is known to be fermentative.the apparent functional adaptation of the colonic microbiota to the administered prebiotic is interesting given the improvement in gastrointestinal symptoms after 4 weeks of supplementation of the same product in ibs mentioned above.3 however gas production and early symptom responses to the prebiotic were not measured in the study by silk et al.

to view these articles visit and referencesnee j lembo a. editorial ono-2952 in irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhoea.

randomised clinical trial exploratory phase 2 study of ono-2952 in diarrhoea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.

gastroenterology 2016 150 1355-67.e2editorial metabolic adaptation of colonic microbiota to galactooligosaccharides - good news for prebiotics in irritable bowel syndromem.

clinical trial the effects of a trans- galactooligosaccharide prebiotic on faecal microbiota and symptoms in irritable bowel syndrome.

designed a 3- week uncontrolled pilot study to assess the effect of galacto-oligosaccharide supplementation on symptoms intestinal gas production and the microbiota in 20 healthy subjects.8 the number and volume of anal gas evacua- tions significantly increased over the first 2 days of sup- plementation compared with baseline.

a key strength of this study was inclusion of clinical phys- iological and microbiota endpoints with the latter sur- prisingly often lacking in trials of pre- and probiotic supplementation but likely critical for an understanding of their mechanisms of action.acknowledgementdeclaration of personal and funding interests none.linked contentthis article is linked to mego et al and manichanh and accarino papers.

eur j gastroenterol hepatol 2015 27 1002-10.silk db davis a vulevic j et al.

aliment pharmacol ther 2017 45 14-26.editorial ono-2952 in irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhoea - authors' replyw.

e. whitehead k. duffy j. sharpe t. nabata m. brucedivision of gastroenterology and hepatology department of medicine university of north carolina at chapel hill chapel hill nc usa.ono pharma uk ltd london uk.e-mail doi10.1111apt.13957we thank drs nee and lembo1 for their editorial com- menting on our article.2 we would like to respond by pointing out the need for a treatment for irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhoea ibs-d that addresses the increased frequency of loose watery stools and the increased pain caused by stress.stress-induced diarrhoea and pain are regarded as key factors in ibs although they are not much discussed.

recent meta-analyses suggest soluble fibres are beneficial in irritable bowelaliment pharmacol ther 2017 45 1004-10061005a 2017 john wiley  sons ltdinvited editorialssyndrome.1 2 however supplementation with soluble fibres that are classified as prebiotic i.e.

the effect of fiber supplementation on irritable bowel syndrome a systematic review and meta-analysis.

the role of fiber supplementation in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome a systematic review and meta- analysis.

fermentable carbohydrate restriction reduces luminal bifidobacteria and gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

