Despite its implications for floodplain resto- ration and management the relationship between hydrologic connectivity and soil microbial communities has rarely been directly explored.If hydrologic connectivity is relevant to the study of flood- plain soil microbial communities then we could expect 1 microbial composition and genetic functional potential to vary in accordance with connectivity and 2 a suite of constraining environmental characteristics to vary with connectivity and correspond to taxonomic and functional variation among mi- crobial communities.

A growing body of evidence sug-gests that the degree of floodplain connectivity influences as- semblages of fishes   amphibians  macroinverte- brates  and macrophytes   yet we understand rel- atively little about the influence of connectivity on soil micro- organisms and the biogeochemical functions they mediate.

Based on original survey descriptions it has maintained direct and uninterrupted hydro- logic connectivity with the Shiawassee River since before 1860 despite this connectivity this wetland occasionally dries when river levels are low.

Tables S2 S13 and S15 suggesting that taxonomy and function may be strongly linked in this system.Flooding frequency which increased across the hydrologic connectivity gradient may explain the contrasting relationships of aerobic and anaerobic taxa and metabolic pathways with connectivity Fig.

Microbial communities in floodplain soils mediate critical biogeochemical processes yet we under- stand little about the relationship between these communities and variation in hydrologic connectivity related to land man- agement or topography.

Here we present metagenomic evi- dence that differences among microbial communities in three floodplain soils correspond to a long-term gradient of hydro- logic connectivity.

Specifically all strictly anaerobic taxa and metabolic pathways were positively associated with increased hydrologic connectivity and flooding frequency.

In contrast most aerobic taxa and all strictly aerobic pathways were neg- atively related to hydrologic connectivity and flooding fre- quency.

William A. Argiroff 1 School of Natural Resources and Environment University of Michigan 440 Church St. Ann Arbor MI 48109 USA2 Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of Michigan 830 North University Ann Arbor MI 48109 USAconceptualized along a gradient of hydrologic connectivity.

Hydrologic connectivity .

