the ability of identical strains to colonize multiple body sites underscores the habit flexibility of initial colonists whereas dif- ferences in microbial replication rates between body sites suggest differences in host control andor resource availability.

2016. this could imply a common inoculum to all body sites followed by body site-specific selection and immigration.

agalactiae group b streptococcus yet as noted above the in- fant's blood cultures were negative.the overlap in community composition between body sites is shown in figure 2. strains were considered identical if they had over 99.9 whole-genome ani and were considered colonizers of a body site if they accounted for 1 of reads in any sample from the site supplemental table s4.

six strains were colonists of more than one body site of infant 2 escherichia coli pseudomonas aeruginosa klebsiella pneumoniae and serratia marcescens colonized all three body sites enterococcus faecalis colonized the mouth and skin and staphylococcus epidermidis colonized the mouth and gut.

for infant 1 enterococcus faecalis had appeared in the skin and gut by the time of collection of the first samples persisted in the gut and was present in both habitats at the later time point when samples from both body sites were collected day of life dol 23. a haemophilus parainfluenzae population was not detected in the first collected samples from all body sites but was present in the gut on dol 21 and had appeared in the mouth and skin 2 d later.

in general strains became detectable at all three body sites at around the same day of life with the excep- tion of e. faecalis in infant 2 which persisted in the gut and mouth for over a week before being detected in the skin.growth rates are different across body sitesrecently it was shown that accurate growth rates of micro- bial strains in their natural environment can be determined by measuring the ratio of the coverage of dna at the origin and termi-nus of replication korem et al.

2016. overlap of strains across body sites contributes to the low total diversity of these premature infant microbiomes compared to those of other infants.for c. koseri we confirmed the complete absence of any fixed mutations that would distinguish populations in the mouth skin and gut allowing us to conclude that identical populations colonized all three body sites.

asterisks represent cases where the frequency of variants is statistically different between body sites fisher's exact t-test with bonferroni correction p  0.01.same strains in multiple body sites at the first sampling event may indicate an early widespread inoculation event from the same source.

the presence of the same population in multiple body sites suggests the ability of body sites to act as strain reser- voirs for one another in early life.

2016. to our knowledge this is the first study to investigate the body habitat range of individual genotypes and to compare microbial activity of the same populations across body sites.

the results of both scripts were manually combined and are available in supplemental table s7.a strain was considered a colonist of a body site if at least 1 of the reads from at least one sample from at least one body site mapped to the recovered genome.

methodological limitations have led to gaps in our understanding of the habitat range and subpopulation complexity of founding strains as well as how different body sites support microbial growth.

seven bacterial populations considered to be identical given whole-genome average nucleotide identity of 99.9 colonized multiple body sites yet none were shared between infants.

gut-associated citrobacter koseri genomes harbored 47 polymorphic sites that we used to define 10 subpopulations one of which appeared in the gut after 1 wk but did not spread to other body sites.

in all cases where the same bacterial population was detected in multiple body sites replication rates were faster in mouth and skin compared to the gut.

