inotropic agents have a limited effect on peak v. o2and exercise performance 36 40 66. this has led to the emergence of the concept that intrinsic impairments in skeletal muscle structure function and metabolism are key factors in the development of exercise intolerance in hf patients 6.numerous studies in animals and humans with hf have shown several skeletal muscle abnormalities including changes in fiber type composition reduced capillary density muscle atrophy and mitochondrial dysfunction 70. some studies have suggested that metabolic alterations in skeletal muscle are a critical underlying mechanism contributing to skeletal muscle myopathy and exercise limitations in hf and may potentially play a bigger role than changes in intrinsic myofibrillar contractibility 9 19 61. however not all studies have produced similar conclusions 43 65 and thus the precise impact and contribution of these skeletal muscle ab- normalities on exercise intolerance in hf remains incompletely understood.resveratrol resv is a naturally occurring polyphenol that has been shown to have a multitude of beneficial effects in cardiovascular and metabolic disease 55 72. we have re- cently shown that resv when administered as a treatment for established pressure overload-induced hf was able to nearlyh8420363-613517 copyright c 2017 the american physiological societyresveratrol and exercise capacity in heart failureh843double lifespan in these mice 54. furthermore resv treat- ment significantly improved cardiac remodeling diastolic car- diac function and cardiac glucose metabolism in mice with hf 54. studies have shown that resv can increase skeletal muscle biogenesis 27 insulin sensitivity 54 and exercise performance in rodents 4 27 45. in addition we have shown that resv may act as an exercise mimetic by improving isometric force of isolated muscles and whole body oxidative metabolism in healthy rodents 15 16. based on these previ- ous findings we investigated whether resv treatment would be able to improve exercise tolerance and physical activity in mice with pressure overload-induced hf and attempted to identify how the skeletal muscle may directly contribute to these effects.herein we show that hf leads to significant impairments in systemic metabolic rate and an increased reliance on fatty acid utilization over glucose.

taken together these findings suggest that resv treatment may either improve or prevent the decline in skeletal muscle mitochondrial oxidative capacity and this likely contributes to the ability of the exercising muscle to use o2 for contraction during exercise.discussionwe have previously shown that resv treatment of mice with established hf increases lifespan and lessens the severity of the hf phenotype by reducing cardiac fibrosis improvingcardiac energy metabolism and enhancing diastolic cardiac function 54. surprisingly despite this resv did not increase resting cardiac systolic function in mice with hf 54. we add to our previous findings by showing that resv treatment is able to treat one of the major symptoms of hf namely exercise intolerance.

it is possible that ampk was activated earlier on and was normalized by the 5-wk time point or that the reduction in phosphorylated ampk reflects improved skeletal muscle en- ergetic status following resv treatment.sirt1 has been linked to the beneficial effects of resv on glucose metabolism and mitochondrial oxidative capacity 27 49. resv has been shown to act through sirt1 and sirt3 to increase mitochondrial cardiolipin synthesis which may im- prove mitochondrial dysfunction 14. although we have not fully investigated the role of sirtuins in this study this may be a potential mechanism of action by which resv acts to increase oxidative capacity in skeletal muscle from mice with hf and is worthy of future investigation.our data are largely consistent with studies in patients with hf where abnormal skeletal muscle metabolism is character- ized by reduced oxidative metabolism with an earlier shift to glycolytic metabolism utilization of high-energy phosphocre- atine pcr early intracellular acidification and delayed pcr recovery after exercise 6 35. interestingly these metabolic abnormalities appear to be independent of changes in total limb perfusion 31 41 64 or muscle mass 28 observed in hfpatients.

in addition we and others have shown that resv is able to improve endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in the femoral artery of mice with hf 51 54. impaired vascular function and vasodilatory response to exercise can limit blood flow to the exercising muscle and further limit exercise per- formance 7. therefore it is possible that improved vascular function may contribute to the beneficial effects of resv on exercise capacity in hf mice by improving substrate and o2 supply to skeletal muscle.overall we conclude that hf leads to significant alterations in whole body metabolism and that resv is able to improve systemic metabolic rate and alter substrate utilization in mice with established hf.

it is well known that diabetic patients have an increased risk of developing hf however insulin resistance is also highly prevalent in nondiabetic hf patients 1 47. the degree of insulin resistance increases significantly with worsening nyha class and is associated with impaired exercise perfor-mance and peak v. o2 1. consistent with this we showed thatphosphorylation status of irs-1 and akt under 6-h-fasted conditions in soleus muscle were reduced in tac mice com- pared with sham and that resv treatment increased phosphor- ylation levels of these proteins suggesting that resv improves peripheral insulin sensitivity in mice with hf.

skeletal muscle dysfunc- tion plays an important role in limiting peak functional exercise capacity and performance in patients with hf 70. it has been suggested that this results from a combination of muscle atrophy decreased muscle strength and metabolic dysfunction 19 37 44. to investigate the direct effects on skeletal muscle we measured skeletal muscle mass of soleus and ta and found that there were no differences across the three groups of mice fig.

a representative commensal gut microbial community in mice with hf receiving vehicle tac n  6 and resv tac  resv n  5. b ratio of bacteroidetes to firmicutes in the cecum of tac n  5 or tac  resv mice n  6. c relative abundance of lachnospiraceae f 2 bacteroides parabacteroides bilophila and akkermansia in the cecum of tac n  5 or tac  resv n  6 mice.

these data are consistent with our findings using indirect calorimetry showing the tac mice use less glucose as an energy substrate whereas resv promotes glucose utilization.given the fact that resv has low bioavailability when administered orally and largely arrives unmetabolized in the colon 34 recent evidence has shown resv's ability to alter the gut microbiota 8 20 56. this is relevant since changes in the gut microbiota have been associated with obesity and the development of type 2 diabetes 59 60 such as decreased bacteroidetes-to-firmicutes ratio 30. in addition more recent evidence has suggested that repeated exercise training can oppose changes in the distal gut microbiome during diet- induced obesity without altering obesity in mice 10. consis- tent with these findings our results show that resv supplemen- tation in mice during hf is able to decrease the bacteroidetes- to-firmicutes ratio of the cecal microbiota.

because our previous study showed that resv improved car- diac diastolic function in mice with hf it is possible that heart rate was increased to a greater extent during exercise inresv-treated mice which may also contribute to the increase in exercise treadmill running capacity.to investigate the potential physiological and molecular mechanisms that could be responsible for this significant ex- ercise benefit of resv we first investigated the effects of hf and resv on whole body energy metabolism.

following tac surgery to induce hf 3 wk mice with an ef 45 table 1 were administered diet with vehicle or resv 450 mg resvkg body wt-1day-1 calculated plasma levels from this dose in rodents is equivalent to humans receiving 150 mgday 18. similar to our previous study 54 2 wk of resv treatment in mice with pressure overload-induced hf did not result in an improvement in resting lvef compared with vehicle-treated hf mice fig.

in vehicle-treated tac mice the top discriminative microbial pathways included those associated with membrane transport cell motility and transcription supplemental table 1. furthermore consistent with our findings that resv increased whole body carbohydrate metabolism in mice with hf changes in functional profiles of resv-treated mice with hf were specifically related to increases in predicted metagenomic capacity of carbohydrate metabolism and decreases in lipid metabolism supplemental table 2. these findings may highlight the underlying mechanism by which resvresveratrol and exercise capacity in heart failureh847figure 2. resv treatment increases metabolic rate and whole body glucose utilization in mice with hf.

5 c and dwhich is consistent with what is shown in the literature 9 23. in contrast levels of adp-stimulated v. o2 were increased in skeletal muscle fibers from hf mice treated with resv comparedwith hf mice treated without resv fig.

together these findings provide additional physiological mechanistic insight into how resv may improve glucose uti- lization and mitochondrial oxidative capacity in hf.given that exercise intolerance in hf has been stronglylinked to mitochondrial and oxidative impairment in skeletal muscle 70 and that resv has been shown to increase mito- chondrial number andor function 4 27 we isolated skeletal muscle fibers from all three groups of mice and measured ratesof ex vivo v. o2.

because hf is considered an insulin-resistant state 1 we examined whether phosphorylation of proteins involved in the insulin signaling cascade was altered in skeletal muscle from mice with hf that were fasted 6 h. we show that phosphorylation of irs-1 and its downstream target akt ser473 was reduced in tac mice compared with sham and that this was restored with resv treatment fig.

taken together these data suggest that resv enhances skeletal muscle insulin sensi- tivity in mice with hf which may explain in part the increased in vivo carbohydrate utilization in these mice.resv treatment alters the gut microbiome in mice withpressure overload-induced hf.

