the number of otus were calculated follow- ing rarefaction to 4000 reads per sample using r. a hierarchical cluster analysis of dominant otus was conducted based on the bray-curtis index using r.statistical analysisall statistical analyses were performed using r version 3.1.1. a pearson correlation test was used to evaluate the relationship between the relative abundance or relative abundance shift of each bacterial species in different samples and between the relative abundance of each bacteria and the periodontal condition of each subject.resultssubgingival and supragingival plaques saliva and tongue coating samples their microbiota were defined as subp supp sl and tc respectively were collected twice from 14 patients with periodontitis who visited a dental clinic 5 women and 9 men aged 35-73 years at their initial visit pre-therapy samples and after periodontal therapy approximately 2 years later post-therapy samples.

the mean relative abundance in each niche is represented by a line and a number.correlation coefficient was found in the total relative abundances of 12 subp-specific otus in sl when compared to those of any otu among the 12 otus .the relative abundances of the 12 otus decreased in both sl and subp after periodontal therapy followed by the improvement of periodontal condition.

in the present study the relative abundance shifts before and after periodontal therapy of supp- specific otus 22 otus classified into cluster i in  in supp did not significantly corre- late with that in sl  even though the relative abundance of supp-specific otus in sl was significantly associated with that in supp prior to periodontal therapy .

in addition their shift in abundance in subp as well as that in sl was also significantly associated with a decrease in the percentage of diseased sites following periodontal therapy r  0.62 p  0.02 in subp r  0.58 p  0.03 in sl .discussionthis study identified 12 species-level otus that were characteristically more predominant in subp than in the other 3 microbiota supp sl and tc and demonstrated that their relative abundances and shifts in relative abundance in subp and sl were strongly correlated with periodontal health.

the total relative abundance of these otus occupied only 1.6 - 1.2 of the salivary microbiota but significantly correlated with the percentage of diseased sites periodontal pocket depth  jia liao ni liao 4 mm r  0.78 p  0.001 in addition to the abundance of subgingival plaque microbiota r  0.61 p  0.02. after periodontal therapy the total relative abundance of these 12 otus was evaluated as well as before periodontal therapy and reductions of the abundance through periodontal therapy were strongly correlated in saliva and subgingival plaque r  0.81 p  0.001.based on these results salivary microbiota might be a promising target for the evaluation of subgingival plaque-derived bacteria representing the present condition of periodontal health.funding this study was supported in part by grants-in aid for scientific research 16h05557tt 16k15856 tt 26463165 wy 15k15774yy and 16h02692 yy and from the ministry of education culture sports science and technology of japan.

additional research with a larger number of subjects including healthy subjects is needed to confirm the clinical value of evaluating subp-specific bacteria for diagnosing periodontal conditions.however the relative abundance of subp-specific bacteria in sl generally decreased after periodontal therapy exhibiting a significance association with clinical improvement  suggesting that the relative abundance of subp-specific bacteria in sl is promising as a clinical assessment tool for periodontal health.the relative abundances of dominant bacterial genera in sl were highly similar to those in tc .

most of these otus were assigned to periodontitis-associated bacteria including p. gingivalis and t. forsythia.relative abundance distribution of the 66 otus whose mean relative abundances in the pre-therapy samples from any of 4 niches exceeded 1. the relative abundances of each otu were normalized to a mean of 0 with standard deviation of 1 z-score normalization and are represented by the blue gradient in each grid light  low abundance dark  high abundance.

correlation of the relative abundance of each subp-specific otu in sl and the percentage of sites with periodontal pockets 24 mm depth.oral taxon ids were given in parentheses following bacterial names.correlation of total relative abundance shift of the 12 subp-specific otus in subp samples with that in sl samples following periodontal therapy.

in addition considering that these 12 otus made up 37.3 - 22.9 of the subp but accounted for only 1.6 - 1.2 of the sl  bacteria derived from periodontal pockets are a minoritycorrelation of the total relative abundance of the 12 subp-specific otus in sl and subp samples or the percentage of sites with periodontal pockets  4 mm depth.

it is noteworthy that the total relative abundance of the 12 subp-specific bacteria in sl correlated better with periodontal health than the relative abundance of any of the 12 subp-specific bac- teria .

however in contrast to the subp-specific bacteria supp-specific otus occupied nearly 10 of the microbiota in every niche  and they were not very unique to supp suggesting that supp-specific otus in sliva would be less helpful for evaluating the condition of the supp.prior to periodontal therapy all subjects had a periodontal pocket depth 2 4 mm with broad range of percent sites from 21.4 to 85.8. it remains unclear whether a significant cor- relation between the relative abundance of the subp-specific bacteria in sl and periodontal health condition is observed within only subjects healthier than our subjects.

of the 66 spe- cies-level operational taxonomic units otus representing the mean relative abundance of jia liao ni liao 1 in any of the four niches 12 otus corresponding to known periodontal pathogens including porphyromonas gingivalis were characteristically predominant in the subgingival plaque and constituted 37.3 - 22.9 of the microbiota.

the subp was distinguished from supp by a rel- atively higher abundance of porphyromonas and fusobacterium.of the 399 species-level otus identified in this study the mean relative abundances of the 66 otus exceeded 1 in the pre-therapy samples from any of 4 niches.

in fact their relative abundances in sl were significantly correlated with the severity of periodontitis  and their shift in relative abundance following periodontal therapy was significantly associated with a decreaseof the diseased sites in this study .

the significant correlation between the relative abundance of these otus in sl and the clinical periodontal condition was also observed r  0.78 p  0.001 .

