still one fami- ly leuconostocaceae and six low abundant genera unclasscoriobacterineae unclassifiedenterobacteria- ceae clostridium xiva holdemania leuconostoc and haemophilus were different between lean and obese after long-term calorie restriction.long-term calorie restriction shifted the structure of thebgal microbiota of obese individuals to a lean onehaving defined the composition and structure of the total gut microbiota we studied the effect of calorie restriction on the composition of the bgal microbiota.

in contrast to the extensive shifts in the composition and structure of bgal microbiota in obese subjects our results showed that calorie restric- tion did not modify the carbohydrate metabolic capacity of gut microbiota that was significantly higher compared to lean subjects at all time points.microbial diversity and metabolic performance correlate with body mass index and insulin resistancewith the demonstration of obesogenic microbiota in rodent systems and in humans the focus of the field has shifted to the understanding of the mechanisms through which bacteria regulate obesity delzenne and cani 2011. in this context we searched for correlations between host parameters energy intake microbial a-diversity indexes and metabolic performance a-glucosidase and b- galactosidase activities using spearman analysis sup- porting information fig.

2009. faecal microorganisms were marked by means of fluorescent labelling of b-galactosidase activity bgal microbiota and were separated by fluorescent activatedgut microbiota responses to calorie restriction in obese 1537cell sorting facs.

this result suggested that there may be a group of widespread phylotypes within the total gut microbiota whereas the bgal microbiota may be unique to each individual.

these results suggest that the bgal microbiota is a subset of thetotal gut microbiota comprised by a lower number of spe- cialized bacterial groups whose relative abundances are more equally distributed among its constituents.impact of calorie restriction on the structure and diversity of the total gut microbiotadietary interventions with calorie restricted diets in obese cohorts have mainly measured community shifts on short timescales and have failed to find significant diet specific effects tagliabue and elli 2013. due to high inter- individual differences within experimental groups novc 2017 society for applied microbiology and john wiley  sons ltd environmental microbiology 19 1536-1551significant differences in a-diversity were observed between experimental groups supporting information table s6.

2011. arguably diet is one of the most easily controlled factors that can modulate the composition of the gut microbiota in humans xu and knight 2015.vc 2017 society for applied microbiology and john wiley  sons ltd environmental microbiology 19 1536-15511546 a. ruiz et al.calorie restricted diets reduce weight and are suspected to impact human gut microbiota independently of its cause.

only long-term calorie restriction induced clear changes in the microbiota of obese adolescents.

long-term calorie restriction induced significant shifts in total and bgal gut microbiota reducing the firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio and enhancing the growth of beneficial microorganisms such as bacteroides roseburia faecalibacterium and clostridium xiva.

however despite this high compo- sitional similarity microbial metabolic performance was different split in two metabolic states at a body mass index value of 25. our study shows that calorie restriction is a strong environmental force reshaping gut microbiota though its metabolic performance is linked to host's adiposity suggesting that functional redundancy and metabolic plasticity are fundamental properties of gut microbial ecosystem.introductionobesity is an enormous public health problem that arises as a consequence of complex socioeconomic and genetic factors that favour increased dietary intake and reduced physical activity ultimately disrupting energy homeostasis swinburn et al.

2011. experimental evidences indicate a role for the gut microbiota in promoting obesity and it is viewed increasingly as an important target of dietary inter- ventions and pharmacologic agents delzenne and cani 2011 xu and knight 2015 marchesi et al.

2016. direct association of specific microbes or microbial molecular mechanisms with obesity has not yet been observed because host genetic variation and dietary intake influencethe structure and phenotype of the human gut microbiota with distinct effects on specific taxa and members of differ- ent phyla nadal et al.

2009. due to these limitations an explanation of the functional assembly of gut microbiota that confers the transferable obeselean metabolic phenotypes has not yet been accomplished impeding efforts to manipulate dysbiotic microbial commu- nities towards a healthy state.a key factor in obesity development is the increased capacity for energy extraction from dietary components provided by gut microbiome ley 2010. in humans fer- mentation of host mucins and dietary polysaccharides that reach the large intestine provide 10 of the maintenance caloric requirement mcneil 1984 hooper et al.

2013.these observations prompted us to test a 'down to top' functional approach to define the gut microbial species with glycosidase activity and establish whether their phylo- genetic composition and metabolic performance changed in response to calorie restriction in obese that is charac- terizing the microbiota by 'what they do' to determine 'who they are'.

after removing sequence reads shorter than 200 bp and quality filtering 1.697.044 and 1.638.510 reads sequences from total and bgal gut microbiota remained available respectively.

to accommodate all this massive amount of data and to estimate co-variation of phylogeneti- cally related taxa we used the classifier algorithm to assign taxonomic rank to sequence reads by matching dis- tributions of nucleotide substrings to a model defined from sequences of isolated and uncultured microorganisms.vc 2017 society for applied microbiology and john wiley  sons ltd environmental microbiology 19 1536-15511538 a. ruiz et al.in total gut microbiota community membership con- sisted of 1645 species level otus dominated by firmicutes 1458 followed by bacteroidetes 97 proteo- bacteria 44 actinobacteria 45 and verrumicrobia 1 fig.

