this allowed us to correlate the muc2 o-glycosylation profile of the small intestine and colon with the relative abundancies of glycosyltransferases detected by proteomics.resultso-glycosylation initiationmucus from small and large intestine of convr and gf c57b6 mice was scraped and the muc2 mucin was partially purified from duodenum convr mid-jejunum convr ileum convr gf proximal colon convr middle colon convr gf and distal colon convr.

the insoluble muc2 mucin was partially purified from duo- denum convr mid-jejunum convr ileum convr gf prox- imal colon convr middle colon convr gf and distal colon convr by repeated 6 m guanidinium hydrochloride guhcl extraction.

c relative amounts of short and long muc2 glycans along convr mice intestine and comparison convr vs gf left panel relative amounts of sulfated sialylated and fucosylated muc2 glycans along convr mice intestine and comparison convr vs gf mice right panel.

this was only detected in convr colon figure a. however rela- tively large amounts of sulfated glycans were found in the small and large intestine of both convr and gf mice figure c. this sug- gests that the sulfotransferases were expressed in too low protein concentrations to be detected in gf and convr small intestine or that additional enzymes not annotated in the available databases were responsible.

this suggests that the glycans in gf mice will be less elongated something that was supported by the glycan analysis showing increased levels of short glycans in gf mice colon figure c. for example the core1 disaccharide 384 figure b core2 trisacchar- ide 587 and its sulfated product 667 showed higher amounts in gf mouse colon figure b.b13-galactosyltransferase 5 b3galt5the b3galt5 enzyme catalyzing the transfer of gal to glcnac-based acceptors with a preference for the core3 structure glcnacb13- galnac was found only in colon and had higher abundance in gf mice figure c. as stated before no core3 glycans were detected in mice small intestine or large intestine.

the fut2 transferase was thus detected in colon but not in the small intestine figure a. still small amounts of fucosylated core1 and core2 glycans were detected in convr mice ileum but not in gf mice ileum figure b and c the absence of fut2 in the small intestine was accordingly accompanied by the accumulation of the core1 glycan 384 and core2 glycan 587 figure b table .

most of the galnac-ts showed increased levels in both small and large intestine of colonized mice figure a. one transferase galnt2 was only found in convr mice intestine figure a. together the results indi- cate a more active mucin biosynthesis and coupled o-glycosylation in the presence of microbiota.core1 b13-galactosyltransferase c1galt1 and its chaperone cosmc c1galt1c1these two enzymes had similar relative protein abundance patterns along the intestine where both showed to be significantly more abundant in colon figure a. colonization increased the expres- sion of these proteins in all tissues with c1galt1c1 being increased2.5 times in convr mouse ileum compared with the gf mouse figure a. interestingly the product of c1galt1 the core1 disac- charide glycan 384 glycan names are given according to their molecular mass was more abundant in the small intestine than in the colon for both mice figure b table  which is in keeping with the findings of .

for example chst4 was detected at low amounts in convr colon in seven out of nine biological replicates and not detected in convr small intestine and gf mice where sulfated glycans were still observed.

the b4galt1 was the only transferase detected and this was found only in convr small intes- tine and not in gf mice figure a. the most abundant direct product of this enzyme was the elongated core2 glycan749 that was of highest intensity in the convr proximal small intestine the same location as the highest amount of the b4galt1 transferase figure b table .

b relative amounts of most abundant glycans are shown in convr mice small intestine and compared with gf mice in ileum identified glycans are named by their molecular mass.

the peak areas for singly and doubly charged oligosaccharides which hasbeen compensated for difference in ionization efficiency with the factor of 0.4 and 0.3 respectively for more detail see .abundance of st3gal4 increased in the distal direction whereas st3gal6 decreased figure a. also the abundance of the sialylated glycans increased in the distal direction glycans 1040 1234a and b 1323 1535 and 2103 figure b. in the presence of microbiota the st3gal4 enzyme increased at the same time as the st3gal6 was unaffected in proximal and mid small intestine figure a. however in ileum st3gal6 was undetectable in the convr mice but well in gf suggesting that it had decreased after bacterial coloniza- tion.

several other sialylated products were only detected in convr mice ileum table  glycans 1469 1526 1535 probably reflecting the increased levels of st3gal4 transferase in convr mice small intestine.b14-n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase 2 b4galnt2the addition of galnac to sialylated acceptors creates the sdacad epitope .

this is further sup- ported by the overall finding that shorter glycans 3 sugars were more abundant in the small intestine while longer glycans 4 sugars were more abundant in the colon figure c.core b16-n-acetylglucosaminyltransferasesb3gnt6 transferase that catalyzes the formation of the core3 disac- charide core structure was not found in the current proteomic study as reflected in low amounts of core3 and core4 glycans observed in mouse intestine table  as has also been observed previously  .

these subsequent elongation steps will be discussed separately for the small intestine and colon.o-glycan elongation in the small intestinefewer glycosyltransferases that elongate the core structures were detected in the small intestine compared with the colon 4 vs. 10 as shown in figures a and a. one b14-galactosyltransferase two sialyltransferases and one b14-n-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase were detected in the small intestine.b14-galactosyltransferase b4galt1b14-galactosyltransferases are responsible for elongation of core2 or core4 structures by a gal residue.

b relative amounts of major core glycans are shown along the intestine in convr mice and compared with gf mice in ileum and middle colon glycans are named by their molecular mass.

