journal of nutritional biochemistry 42 2017 126-133131regulation fc 2.0-4.0 b-d. myc was also moderately up- regulated following surgery and sample handling 60-70 individuals fc 1.5 in the normal tissues and 1.3 in the malignant tissues a. myc up-regulation was also confirmed at the protein level in the malignant tissues fc1.5 supplementary table s4.other genes such as egfr a tyms b and tp53 resulted significantly up-regulated after surgery only in the malignant tissues n 60 individuals fc 1.4 to 2.3 pb.05 whereas casp3 d was significantly down-regulated only in the normal tissue 60 individuals fc -2.8 pb.05.

early studies looking at the expression of myc and gja1 connexin 43 in colonic tissues following the consumption of b-carotene showed that expression changes in these tissues were variable and could also be detected in the placebo group evidencing the difficulty in detecting significant changes associated with the intake of the compound and or the appearance of metabolites in the serum or tissues especially when comparing groups of small sample size n7-8 placebo n 5-10 b-carotene .

metabotypes or the levels of urolithins and ea in the colon tissues and did not reproduce in vitro effects evidencing the difficulty of demonstrating in vivo the in vitro results.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.keywords clinical trial gene expression colon tissues ellagitannins interindividual variability urolithins pomegranate extractintroductionnumerous preclinical in vitro and animal studies have given evidence of the regulation of cell processes by polyphenols viaepigenetic changes as a general mechanism of action underlying the health benefits attributed to these compounds .

we conducted the first clinical trial in crc patients where we provided evidence of the in vivo availability and concentrations of urolithins in the colon following a short- term supplementation with et-containing pes and also reported some specific and significant changes in various mirs in the human colon normal and malignant tissues after the intake of the pe .using the same colon samples obtained from those crc patientsthe aim of the present research was to test whether it was also possible to detect significant differential expression for various specific genes in colon human tissues in response to the supplementation with a pe.

journal of nutritional biochemistry 42 2017 126-133129any of the following variables tumor differentiation tumor location or tmn classification pe intervention time sex age or bmi.gene expression variability in the human colon tissue sampleswe first examined the interindividual variability of the expression levels for each gene in the four types of colon tissue samples collected normal biopsies nb malignant biopsies mb normal surgical tissues ns and malignant surgical tissues ms results are shown as cv in supplementary table s2.

for this molecule protein variability was not so much increased in the malignant tissues as compared with the normal ones cv 39.9 vs. 43.4 for ns and ms samples respectively or by the experimental protocol cv 43.5 vs. 39.9 for mb and ms samples respectively.gene expression data presentation and validation of the studythe results of the analysis of gene expression differences between the various tissues examined are listed in supplementary tables s3- s5.

to illustrate and compare the most relevant and representative responses in the different tissues examined a-d displays the expression changes for myc cd44 cdkn1a and ctnnb1 and a-d for egfr tyms casp3 and kras.because of the high variability of the gene expression data and as a means to validate our study we evaluated gene expression differences between malignant and normal tissues for several genes that have been confirmed to be overexpressed or down-regulated in crc .

to date very few trials have investigated and reported significant associations between the dietary intake of bioactive compounds and specific gene expression changes in human tissues and even less in human colon tissues.

analysis of the tissues obtained from the control patients confirmed that the experimental procedure affected the variability and the expression of some of the investigated genes in the normal and or in the malignant tissues.

journal of nutritional biochemistry 42 2017 126-133significant counteracting effect to that caused by the protocol in the expression of some genes in the normal and malignant tissues cd44 ctnnb1 b and d or in the malignant tissues cdkn1a egfr tyms c and a and b. these results suggested a potential gene- and tissue-specific influence of the pe that was evidenced by a down-regulating or preventing effect promoted by the pe intake over the change caused by the experimental protocol.

we were not able to find any significant association between the expression changes observed in the human tissues in cd44 ctnnb1 cdkn1a or tyms and the corresponding individuals metabotypes a b or 0 or the quantity of urolithins detected in the tissues confirming the difficulty in linking in vivo gene expression effects with the presence of specific metabolites.

available online at sciencedirectgene expression changes in colon tissues from colorectal cancer patients following the intake of an ellagitannin-containing pomegranate extract a randomized clinical trialmaria a. nunez-sancheza antonio gonzalez-sarriasa rocio garcia-villalbaa tamara monedero-saizab noelia v. garcia-talaverab maria b. gomez-sanchezb carmen sanchez-alvarezb ana m. garcia-albertcfrancisco j. rodriguez-gilc miguel ruiz-marind francisco a. pastor-quirantee francisco martinez-diazefrancisco a. tomas-barberana juan carlos espina maria-teresa garcia-conesaaaresearch group on quality safety and bioactivity of plant foods cebas-csic p.o.

we conducted here the first clinical trial with 35 crc patients daily supplemented with 900 mg of an et-containing pomegranate extract pe and evaluated the expression of various crc-related genes in normal and cancerous colon tissues before biopsies and after surgical specimens 5-35 days of supplementation.

tissues were also obtained from 10 control patients no supplementation that confirmed a large gene- and tissue-specific interindividual variability and impact of the experimental protocol on gene expression with some genes induced myc cd44 cdkn1a ctnnb1 some repressed casp3 and others not affected kras.

journal of nutritional biochemistry 42 2017 126-133127area clinical trials are limited and show weak evidence of the effects of these compounds on molecular expression in human tissues.

