here we show how this approach will lead to an understanding of how colonization is regulated in-planta and discuss how this understanding - combined with cutting edge tools - will enable steering beneficial microbial communities via targeted plant breeding.establishing the plant holobiont requires niche specific adaptations to broaden the understanding how the complex interplay between the host and its associated microbiota occurs it is useful to tackle the problem holistically by considering all associated microbes and the host as a metaorganism or holobiont  niches with host genes determining the space and pri- mary resources available in each niche .

these genes together with host genes will become important markers for breeding in the future.new genomics-enabled approaches for understanding plant-microbe system complexitymanipulating plant traits by breeding plants to host beneficial microbiota will require improved linkage of microbiota to host genotypes.

recent massive genomic sequencing of host plants and associated microbes offers resources to identify novel mechanisms of communal assembly mediated by the host.

the result is often a co-evolutionary arms race between host and microbe which can leave genomic signatures similar to co-evolving pathogens and their hosts  specifically genes involved in the stabilizing interaction such as host resistance genes or microbial effectors show signatures of positive selection combined with presence- absence polymorphisms .

increasingly beneficial effects of specific colonizers for the host are well under- stood  including nutrient uptake  abiotic stress tolerance protection against pathogens  andgrowth promotion .

specifically mechanistic insights into how the host influences its associated microbes under natural condi- tions or following domestication are still needed e.g.

among plant colonizing microorganisms there is a con- tinuum from those with few host-specific adaptations to those with long co-evolutionary history with the host.

here we discuss how the host niche leads to microbialfigure 1formation of the plant holobiont.

host genetics together with environmental factors contribute to initial plant niche formation.

apart from tissue specificity microbes are able to alter a colonized host niche by for example phytohormone manipulation or activation of plant defenses.

dynamics in formation of the holobiont therefore needs consideration.adaptations concluding that host genes underlying niche formation represent targets for plant breeding to control the microbiota.the plant microbiota apparently originates from soil air or via vertical transmission but the path from inoculation to the final niche is not yet clear  .

therefore close symbiotic associations with the host often are achieved with long-term co-evolution of hosts with specific microbes .

these include mutualistic microbes that live in close long-term symbiosis with their host benefiting them in various ways.

high conservation across host spe- cies is also visible for genes involved in symbiotic inter- actions with arbuscular mycorrihiza and rhizobia .

in plant populations ubiquitous eukaryotic microbes have been described as hubs that co-evolve with their host  and determine microbial diversity and this might occur via niche formation.

