however to obtain a broader and more complete knowledge of the a and ss diversity as well as the community structure it is possible to use approaches based on high-throughput sequencing which have a better statisti- cal power than conventional methods independently of their potential systematic biases inher- ent to samples processing amplification and pyrosequencing that may alter read abundance and reduce the utility of diversity metrics .in bark beetles these approaches have been used to characterize bacterial and fungal symbi- onts in field larvae and adults and lab-rearing insects of dendroctonus micans d. punctatus and d. valens  to characterize and compare the bacterial microbiome associated with the surface of cuticle interior of the body and galleries from the eastern larch beetle d. simplex  to evaluate whether the exclusivity of the bacterial community in host trees is attributable to the red turpentine beetle d. valens  and to characterize the bacterial community meta- genome associated with the mountain pine beetle d. ponderosae as well as to identify bacterial genes putatively involved in terpene degradation .given that phloem consumption is different among distinct developmental stages in den- droctonus species and the nutritional quality of this substrate vary after the initial colonization of the host we analyzed the a and ss diversity of the bacterial community in the gut of d. rhizo- phagus to determine a the change on the bacterial community structure across the insect life cycle b the exclusivity degree of community in different life stages c the persistence of the dominant taxa and d the predictive functional profile of the community using 16s rrna sequences.materials and methodsinsect collection dissection and dna extractionlarvae 5th instar pupae teneral pre-emerged adults and emerged adults were collected from naturally infested arizona pines 60 cm high 10 cm diam.

unfortunately it has been difficult to determine whether these differences are consistent because these last studies did not systematically ana- lyze the community across different developmental stages with exception of d. armandi where differences in the community structure were observed through several life stages .the pcoa analysis using unweighted unifrac distances indicates that b-diversity is statisti- cally significant among bacterial communities in the different life stages and replicates how- ever the same analysis using weighted unifrac distances did not show significant differences.

a total of 4 phyla 7 classes 15 families and 23 genera comprised the bacterial community in all life stages at the genus level only rahnella serratia pseudomonas and propionibacterium were recorded in all development stages being rahnella the most abundant.principal coordinates analysis pcoa of the bacterial community in the gut of different life stages of d. rhizophagus.

the expected richness metric chao 1 was significantly different richness and alpha diversity estimation of the bacterial community in the gut of different life stages of d. rhizophagus.a mean values between two biological replicates for each life stage except in pupae.b phylogenetic diversity indexamong life stages welch f test f  25.63 p  0.05 the highest richness was observed in emerged and pre-emerged adults while the lowest value was found in the larval stage .

whereas several authors have argued that the low a-diversity observed in bark beetles can be attributed to the presence of defensive chemical compounds in conifers  an alternative hypothesis is to assume that different morpho-physiological factors in the gut of these insects act as strong selective factors structuring the microbial communities in these bark beetles.heatmap of relative abundances of the most important metabolic pathways inferred by picrust in the gut bacterial community of d. rhizophagus across its life cycle.

acinetobacter and pseudomonas isolated from d. rhizophagus have also been shown to be implicated on lipolytic and esterase activities and pseudomonas has been shown to have amylolytic and xylanolytic activities  which may complement the nutritional capacity of these bark beetles by allowing the use of phloem as a food source.finally the genus pseudomonas isolated from d. terebrans  and raoultella from d. rhizo- phagus and d. valens have shown diazotrophic activity in vitro  which could contribute to the nitrogen balance in insects.of particular interest is the presence of rahnella serratia pseudomonas and propionibacter- ium in all life stages which suggests that they might represent a core within the microbiome.

the pcoa was conducted using unweighted a and weighted b pairwise unifrac distances among communities of life stages and replicates.previous a-diversitystudies reported from 5 to 11 bacterial genera in specific life stages of some species of the dendroctonus and ips genera using culture-dependent and culture-inde- pendent methods   - -.

this study represents the first comprehensive analysis of the bacterial community of the gut of the bark beetle d. rhizophagus during the insect's life cycle using 454 pyrosequen- cing.

other important pathways found in a lower proportion were metabolism of terpenoids poliketydes lipids and xenobiotics .discussionthis study represents the first comprehensive analysis of the bacterial community in the gut of the bark beetle d. rhizophagus throughout its life cycle using 454 pyrosequencing.

the error associated with the molecular technique used should not be discarded.although there is not a reliable explanation why the presence and relative abundance of the non-dominant bacteria vary among different life stages and replicates we hypothesize that dominant bacteria rahnella serratia and pseudomonas along the insect's immune system may regulate the gut bacterial community.

finally a principal coordinates analy- sis pcoa using both unifrac distances was conducted to compare communities across life stages and replicates.metagenome predictions from 16s rrna surveys and functional analysiswe used picrust phylogenetic investigation of communities by reconstruction of unob- served states  to predict functional profile of bacterial communities indifferent life stages.

bacteria also fix nitrogen   recycle nitrogenous metabolic products  tolerate and degrade monoterpenes    mediate the growth and sporulation of associated fungi  and produce antibiotics that inhibit the growth of antagonistic fungi - .although these studies have demonstrated the enormous metabolic capacity of a small frac- tion of the bacterial community associated to bark beetles little is known about the bacterial community structure composition and abundance and dynamics throughout the life cycle of these beetles.

warm colors represent high abundances and clear colours represent low abundances.in fact the comparison of endophytic bacterial communities bark roots and phloem of arizona pine pinus arizonica saplings one of the preferred pine host by d. rhizophagus  and bacterial community found in this study shows that the most abundant members in the gut rahnella serratia pseudomonas and propionibacterium of this bark beetle are present also in tissues of non-colonized trees  suggesting that some microorganisms are acquired from the phloem through feeding pers.

the final number of obtained reads ranged from 7600 to 26400 sequences per sample thus all samples were homogenized to 7600 reads.abundance of bacteria associated with the gut of d. rhizophagusa total of 4 bacterial phyla 7 classes 15 families and 23 genera were identified across all life stages .

diversity and abundance of the bacterial community in the gut of d. rhizophagus across the different life stages.

