their viability after cold storage and their ability to regrow on meat matrices were checked.bacteria separation method and dna extractionwe tested different methods previously used to collect bacteria from meat  and associated them with different dna extraction protocols in order to set up the best method allowing to separate the most possible viable bacteria from the matrix and extract their dna whilst avoiding pcr inhibitors.table 2comparison of recovery of bacteria and estimation of quality of dna extraction using different protocols.acfug bphenol-chloroform purification see  cheating step for 10 min at 56 degc dultrasonic bath for 3 min at 50 degc.- positive or negative amplification.chicken legs were stored at 4 degc until ubd before to apply the different extraction methods.stomacher is a method broadly used because it usually permits to collect bacteria with a high efficiency.

one gas mixture contained high o2 concentrationand b. thermosphacta viability was decreased in some samples  without modifying drastically the balance of the bacterial communities of our life stocks.table 3concentration of dna extracted from the bacterial stocks of the 23 samples and subse- quent pcr efficiency.apparently completed with co2 samples a b c as example onepoor in o2 and completed with co2 and probably n2 like samples g h m and possibly a third one with another co2 - n2 - o2 balance like samples e o u. these observations may explain the different microbiotas observed.after storage at -80 degc bacterial population remained cultivable and the richness in aliquots was not particularly affected and s1.

the bacterial suspension was adjusted to 15 ml with ts.dna extractionto isolate dna from the collected bacteria 1 ml of bacterial suspension was centrifuged at 10000 xg 10 min at 4 degc.

many articles focused only one bacterial species and did not consider 0168-1605c 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.the natural bacterial contaminants despite their impact on the bacterial dynamics.

however due to a very poor initial bacterial contamination on chicken breast data not shown we rapidly chose to extract bacteria only from chick- en legs where bacterial contamination were higher due to the presence of the animal skin on the product.

for that purpose we determined i the best method to separate bacteria from meat ii the best conditions to extract dna from the stored communities for their analysis by molecular methods needing pcr am- plification and iii then the best moment to collect bacteria in sufficient amount during the product shelf life.

indeed although a 30-s-rinse is usually recommended in protocols for microbial assessment of food products a very short time for a handed experiment and its reproduc- ibility may be experimenter dependent.after validation of the method to collect bacteria we checked whether it was optimal for efficient recovery of bacteria from meat and for dna extraction and subsequent pcr amplification.

the dna pellet was washed with ethanol 70 dried and suspended with rehydration solution 1 h at 65 degc accord- ing to the promega instruction manual.with mo bio power food microbial dna isolation kit mo bio labora- tories inc. usa 450 ml of heated lysis solution pf1 was used to suspend bacterial pellet.

results showed that the rinsing method associated to the use of mobio dna extraction kit was the most reliable method to collect bacteria and obtain dna for subsequent pcr amplifi- cation.

dna was purified on qiagen kit columns as recommended by the manufacturer.when the promega wizard genomic dna purification kit promega france was used bacteria were suspended in nuclei lysis solution provided with the kit and incubated at 80 degc for 5 min then 3 ml of rnase solution from the kit were added with a further incubation for 1 h at 37 degc.

after stomaching dna could not be pcr amplified whatever the method toseparate bacteria from meat matrix was and whatever the dna extrac- tion procedure used .

meat and fat residues could also lead to dna degradation or a protection of bacteria during the lysis step of the dna extraction.

cuts were incubated without any protective modified atmosphere at 4 degc and 8 degc  and the rinsing method described above was used for bacterial determination of meat contamination.at the beginning of storage total counts were too low to collect a sufficient bacterial stock.

however several samples issued from bacterial communities with such high bacterial concentration did not lead to a positive pcr reaction.

gas composition of the meat packages was measured just before collecting bacteria as described by using a digital o2co2 analyzer oxybaby witt gasetechnik gmbh  co. kg germany.for the constitution of life stocks representing diverse bacterial com- munities naturally present on poultry meat 23 packs of two chicken legs coined here a to w from various origins and labels were used.

