rainard vet res 2017 4825doi 10.1186s13567-017-0429-2mammary microbiota of dairy ruminants fact or fictionpascal rainardtable of contentsthe notion of mammary microbiota challenges the concept of mammary gland sterilitythere is currently a lively interest among biologists in the interactions between hosts and the microbiota asso- ciated with mucosal or cutaneous epithelia.

the proven efficacy of blanket dry cow therapy in reducing the incidence of new intramammary infections is another circumstantial evidence of the inefficiency of the putative intramam- mary microbiota and is compatible with the idea that such a microbiota does not exist.an implication of mammary microbiota use of probiotics for the mammary glandaccording to the concept of mastitis as a manifesta- tion of dysbiosis i.e.

it is speculated that bacteria taken up from the gut lumen by leucocytes such as dendritic cells or macrophages would be carried to the mammary gland by phagocytes migrating to the mammary gland by the haematogenous route then making their way to the mammary gland lumen to be finally shed in milk.

from the data establishing the existence of a milk sample microbiome some authors assumed the existence of a commensal microflora of human milk and of a mammary microbiota .the mechanism by which bacteria reach the mammary gland has been the subject of debate and speculation.

this possibility is discussed below.the concept of human mammary gland microbiota was proposed to be applied to the bovine mammary gland  and this idea was taken up in later studies.

the novel concept of mammary microbiota has not pre- viously been examined with regard to its implications in terms of mammary immunobiology.

over- all the existence of an intramammary microbiota seems incompatible with the known data concerning the status of the innate and adaptive immune system of the mg. in addition the mammary microbiota does not dovetail with data from experimentally induced mastitis and the success of the mastitis control measures currently in use.

this is in keeping with results showing the absence of bacterial dna in the milk of non-infectious mastitis and the presence of dna of many bacterial types in the milk of breast-infected women .in conclusion the existence of an intramammary microbiota seems incompatible with the established knowledge of the innate and adaptive immune system of the mg.mammary microbiota compatibility with the five-point mastitis control planthe question arises of the compatibility of the concept of intramammary microbiota with the mastitis control practices developed and endorsed by researchers at the national institute for research in dairying nird uk in the 1960s .

this is because tlrs bear little ability to distinguishbetween commensal and pathogenic microbes as such organisms generally bear far more structural similarities than differences between them .there is no mucus shield to protect the mammary epithelium from a microbiotathe mammary gland is not a mucosal organ and in particular its epithelium does not secrete a mucus .

these discrepancies between the concept of mammary microbi- ota and the established knowledge of mammary infection immunobiology cast doubt on the efficacy and practicality of the intramammary probiotics approach to controlling mastitis.

vet res 4314bougarn s cunha p harmache a fromageau a gilbert bf rainard p 2010 muramyl dipeptide synergizes with staphylococcus aureuslipoteichoic acid to recruit neutrophils in the mammary gland and to stimulate mammary epithelial cells.

j mammary gland biol neo- plasia 16275-289harp ja runnels pl pesch ba 1988 lymphocyte recirculation in cattle patterns of localization by mammary and mesenteric lymph node lym- phocytes.

j dairy sci 956483-6502rainard p 1987 should mammary infections caused by corynebacterium bovis and coagulase-negative staphylococci be eliminated ann vet res 18355-364 in frenchpoutrel b lerondelle c 1980 protective effect in the lactating bovine mammary gland induced by coagulase negative staphylococci against experimental staphylococcus aureus infections.

an imbalance of the mammary microbiota -.

these results were interpreted as resulting from the existence of a mammary microbiota that would inhabit every mg healthy or not .

