the inability to switch substrates during the feeding period with lipids being the main substrate whereas the hff group showed a less severe metabolic inflexibility compared with c group figure d p  0.05. these changes were associated with lower oxygen consumption figure e.figure 1. effect of a high fat diet enriched with 5 of sucrose hfs or fructose hff in water on body weight a fat mass b lean mass c energy expenditure d and oxygen consumption e. the data are expressed as the mean - sem n  4. results were considered statistically significant at p  0.05. the differences between groups are indicated by letters where a  b  c. c control hfs high-fat and sucrose hfs-c high-fat and sucrose switched to the control diet hff high-fat and fructose hfs-c high-fat and fructose switched to control diet.analysis of microbiota compositionthere is a controversy about the adverse effect of different types of simple carbohydrates in a high fat diet on the development of obesity mediated by changes in gut microbiota.

serum glucose a insulin b glucose tolerance test c area under the curve after the glucose tolerance test d triglycerides e total cholesterol f ldl cholesterol g and lipopolysaccharides h. the data are expressed as the mean - sem n  4. results were considered statistically significant at p  0.05. the differences between groups are indicated by letters where a  b  c. c control hfs high-fat and sucrose hfs-c high-fat and sucrose switched to control diet hff high-fat and fructose hfs-c high-fat and fructose switched to control diet.inflammation markers and oxidative stressthe continuous exposure to a high-fat-high-sugar diet produce metabolic alterations in the liver adipose tissue and skeletal muscle however kidneys could also be affected by this chronic inflammatory state.

protein abundance of toll-like receptor 4 a nuclear factor kappa b b tumor necrosis factor alpha c monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 d and uncoupling protein 1 e. renal reactive oxygen species f malondialdehyde concentration g and urinary hydrogen peroxide h. the data are expressed as the mean - sem n  4. results were considered statistically significant at p  0.05. the differences between groups are indicated by letters where a  b  c. c control hfs high-fat and sucrose hfs-c high-fat and sucrose switched to the control diet hff high-fat and fructose hfs-c high-fat and fructose switched to the control diet.antioxidant systemoxidative stress may be produced by an imbalance between ros and the antioxidant system generating inflammation.

interleukin 1-b a interleukin 6 b nadph oxidase c sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c d superoxide dismutase 1 e glutathione reductase f glutathione peroxidase g and catalase h. the data are expressed as the mean - sem n  5. results were considered statistically significant at p  0.05. the differences between groups are indicated by letters where a  b  c. c control hfs high-fat and sucrose hfs-c high-fat and sucrose switched to the control diet hff high-fat and fructose hfs-c high-fat and fructose switched to the control diet.discussionobesity is a serious health problem in the world and is associated with a significant increase of all-cause mortality  accompanied by inflammation and frequently by disease.

unweighted principal component analysis pca of gut microbiota after the consumption of different diets e. the closer the spatial distance between samples the more similar they are with respect to both axes permanova p  0.001. correlation between serum lps concentration and percent fat mass r  0.95 f. the data are expressed as the mean - sem n  4. results were considered statistically significant at p  0.05. the differences between groups are indicated by letters where a  b  c. c control hfs high-fat and sucrose hfs-c high-fat and sucrose switched to the control diet hff high-fat and fructose hfs-c high-fat and fructose switched to control diet.biochemical parameters and glucose tolerancethe consumption of a high-fat diet enriched with sugars could produce biochemical alterations to different extents.

rats were fed for four months with either high-fat  sucrose hfs or high-fat  fructose hff or a control diet c. half of the hfs or hff groups were maintained with the same diet and the other half were switched to the consumption of c. hfs and hff groups increased 51 and 19 body weight respectively compared with the c group.

importantly these deleterious effects can be partially reverted or ameliorated by the consumption of an adequate diet.high fat diet  sucrose or fructosec eutactusdysbiosisdysbiosisl reuterir flavefaciensb productab fragilisglucose fructoselpstlr 4lpsc eutactusfructosepancreasinsulin srebp 1crenal lipogenesisrosil 6 il 1lpsnftnfoxidative stressrosantioxidant enzymesda cp-1 ospancreasinsulin srebp 1crenal lipogenesisglucoseintoleranceinsulin resistancerenal oxidative stressfigure 6. graphical summary of differential effects of high fat  sucrose of high fat  fructose on gut microbiota inflammatory cytokines insulin resistance and oxidative stress and lipogenesis in kidney.conclusionsthe combination of a high-fat with sucrose hfs or fructose hff diet differentially modified the gut microbiota and increased the paracellular transport of lps generating a chronic state of high-grade inflammation.

as expected the hfs group increased the inflammatory markers tlr-4 nf-kb tnfab and mcp1 compared with the c group followed by the hff group figure a-d p  0.05 on the contrary we found a significant decrease in kidney ucp-1 only in the hfs group figure e. in addition the consumption of hfs or hff diets significantly increased ros levels and mda concentration in the kidney compared to the c group figure fg.

particularly b. producta was increased in the hfs group and r. flavefasciens in the hff group figure a-d. clustering the bacterial communities using principal component analysis pca revealed that the microbiota after the consumption of hfs or hff diets was different to that of the c group anosim r  0.56 p  0.001 figure e. however when the hfs or hff groups switched to the control diet the gut microbiota in part returned to a similar extent to that of the c group.

the amount of body fat was associated r  0.95 with the concentration of serum lps figure f.figure 2. high-fat sucrose hfs or high-fat fructose hff diets differentially modified the gut microbiota.

in the first stage rats were randomized into three groups eight rats were fed a high-fat diet and 5 sucrose in drinking water hfs eight rats were fed a high-fat diet and 5 fructose in drinking water and eight rats were fed a control diet c  for four months.

nevertheless the hfs group showed more oxidative damage which was reflected in the levels of urine h2o2 excreted in comparison with the hff group figure h.figure 4. relative protein abundance and oxidative markers in the kidneys of rats fed high-fat sucrose or fructose diets.

increased intake of certain macronutrients such as fat and simple carbohydrates and particularly fructose have been claimed to be risk factors for the development of kidney disease hypertension and obesity among others due to the high consumption of high fructose corn syrup hfcs used in beverages .

saturated fatty acids  fructose  or sucrose can activate inflammatory pathways observed in obesity and kidney injury .

thus the purpose of the present study was to assess the long-term effects four months of a high fat diet in combination with ad libitum access to one of two sweetened solutions 5 sucrose or 5 fructose on the onset of obesity and metabolic abnormalities that impact the intestinal microbiota and the kidney oxidative stress on wistar rats.materials and methodsanimalsmale wistar rats aged 5-7 weeks were obtained from the national institute of medical sciences and nutrition.

