.vandermaesen j horemans b degryse j boonen j walravens e springael d. mineralization of the common groundwater pollutant 26- dichlorobenzamide bam and its metabolite 26-dichlorobenzoic acid26-dcba in sand filter units of drinking water treatment plants.

all rights reserved.keywords drinking water treatment rapid sand filters bacterial isolates culturable bacteria bacterial community structure comamonadaceaeintroductionrapid and slow sand filter sf units are used in drinking water treatment plants dwtps for the removal of iron and manganese.

obtained sequences were deposited in genbank under accession numbers ku233235 - ku233260.454 bacterial 16s rrna gene amplicon pyrosequencingthe bacterial community composition of both sf samples was determined by 454 pyrosequencing of 16s rrna gene amplicons.

tree was rooted using the 16s rrna gene sequence of isolate k27 rhodococcus sp..whole sand filter bacterial community composition as revealed by 16s rrna gene pyrosequencingin total 326 bacterial otus were identified with 454 pyrosequencing 169 and 76 otus were unique for kluizen and klein-sinaai respectively and 81 were common in both sf samples.

the bacterial 16s rrna gene copy number of both sf samples was determined using real-time quantitative pcr qpcr as described previ- ously .isolation of sand filter bacteria and dna extraction from pure culturessf suspensions were obtained by dispersing 5 g sf material in 100 ml 0.01 m mgso4 stirring for 3 h at 150 rpm on an orbital shaker and settling of coarse material for 1 h. a tenfold dilution series from 1 to 1000  was made from this sus- pension and 100 ml of each dilution was plated on different media including luriaebertani lb reasoner and geldreich r2a  mmo composition of the media provided in table s2 and a number of media based on 10-fold diluted lb.

the first was 10-fold diluted lb lb1 10. the second and third medium were lb110 supplemented with sf extract from either kluizen lb110-k or klein- sinaai lb110-s. the fourth and fifth media were identical to the second and third media but supplemented with a phosphate buffer lb110-k-p and lb110-s-p. sf extracts were prepared by suspending 300 g sf material in 1 l mq- h2o shaking of the suspension for 3 h at 150 rpm centrifu- gation and filtration of the supernatant using 0.22 mm pore size filters.

.benner j helbling de kohler h-pe wittebol j kaiser e prasse c et al.

.ning j bai z gang g jiang d hu q he j et al.

accessed 23 july 2015.vvetrovsky' t baldrian p. the variability of the 16s rrna gene in bacterial genomes and its consequences for bacterial community analyses.

this is important since organisms that can perform a heterotrophic or mixotrophic lifestyle i will contribute to aoc reduction and hence affect the risk of bacterial regrowth in drinking water distribution systems  ii are likely responsible for organic xenobiotic degradation and iii might affect the survival and activity of accidentally or deliberately introduced organisms .while ngs-based studies have increased our knowledge of sf microbial ecology pure cultures remain of interest.

showed that a higher diversity of relevant soil species could be isolated by adding a soil extract to the growth medium.we studied whether bacterial cultures capable of hetero- trophic growth and representative of the sf environment can be isolated using the aforementioned cultivation strategies.

a selection of pure cultures was identified based on their 16s rrna gene sequence and the extent to which they represent dominant members of the sf community was assessed based on the abundance of their 16s rrna gene sequence in the total bacterial 16s rrna gene pool as determined by 454 pyrosequencing.materials and methodssand filter samplessf samples were taken from operational rapid sfs at two belgian dwtps one located in kluizen k and one in klein- sinaai s. physicochemical and biological characteristics of the sfs and dwtp intake water are provided in table s1.

16s rrna gene denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge profiling revealed a high degree of bacterial community homogeneity at least for the most abundant populations within the examined sfs for samples taken from different sf units and at different time points fig.

the fraction of cfu compared to the total number of cells based on qpcr targeting the bacterial 16s rrna gene and taking into account an average number of 4.2 16s rrna gene copies per cell  ranged from 0.0006 to 0.65 depending on the used me- dium and sf sample .

hence our study adds extra members of these genera to culture collections which is of great value for further describing these genera taxonomically and examining their physiology.to evaluate whether the isolates were typical sf in- habitants we first determined their relative abundance within the sampled bacterial community as determined by 16s rrna gene pyrosequencing.

