5c.diet sd and hfd was the main factor significantly influ- encing the total number of caecal bacteria with their higher total number in the group of animals fed with hfd table 1. diet's supplementation with wpi had no impact on the total number of bacteria in caecum table 1.the type of diet sd or hfd influenced the number of bifidobacteria with their higher number in the group on sd diet and c. leptum more abundant in the group fed with hfd table 1.fig.

2 body weight within the following weeks for the mice fed with sd sd  wp hfd hfd  wp.

legend sd - standard diet hfd - high fat diet sd  wp - standard diet supplemented with whey proteins hfd  wp - high fat diet supplemented with wp.

3 calorie intake in the following weeks for the mice fed with sd sd  wp hfd hfd  wp.

4 the percentage of the fat tissue content upon termination of the experiment of the mice fed with sd sd  wp hfd and hfd  wp.

5 blood markers of terminated animals fed with sd hfd sd wp and hfd  wp.

samples with an asterisk differ statistically  p  0.05.wp supplementation had a statistically relevant influence on the microbiota of mice fed with hfd increasing the number of bifidobacteria and the eubacterium rectale group incomparison to mice fed with hfd without wpi table 1.wp supplementation of sd had no effect on the number of analyzed bacterial groups table 1.there was no statistically significant influence of diet nor diet supplemented with wp on the microbial diversity ana- lyzed with shannon's index table 1.wp triggered the increase of total scfa estimated in the group of animals fed with sd and the decrease in the group of animals fed with hfd fig.

6a.the main fermentative difference between mice on sd andhfd was the higher concentration of acetic acid in the group of animals on sd when compared to the hfd ones fig.

6b.supplementation of sd with wp shifted the fermentation process increasing the production of acetic lactic and butyric acids in comparison to the animals fed solely with sd fig.

6d.neither the type of diet sd and hfd nor its supplemen- tation with wp sd  wp hfd  wp had an impact on the expression of intestinal tlr2 tlr4 tnfa il-8 fiaf and gpr41 fig.

2c as demonstrated by other studies.18-20 it is possible that these discrepancies are partly due to the difference in the duration of hfd feeding with prolonged feeding-induced neuroendocrine changes having a greater impact on the ability of wp to regulate energy balance.16 however it was showed that mice fed with hfd supplemented with wp consumed less calories in relation to mice fed with both sd and sd  wp diets fig.

7 the gene expression in the intestine of mice fed with sd hfd sd  wp and hfd  wp.

6 the scfa from caecal contents upon termination of the experi- ment of the mice fed with sd sd  wp hfd and hfd  wp.

the biodiversity of bacteria within the tested groups of animals fed with sd hfd sd  wp and hfd  wp demon- strated no statistical differences table 1. the metabolic potential of microorganisms and their ability to adapt in the environment in terms of enzymatic apparatus may be far more important than the qualitative profile.

diet namely sd also shifted the qualitative scfa profile inducing an increase of acetic acid by sd fig.

