importantly age-associated mi- crobial changes were less evident in tnf knockout animals and administering anti-tnf therapy to aged conventional mice modulated microbial diversity sug- gesting that tnf-mediated inflammation underlies alterations in intestinal perme- ability and microbial composition with age.

various studies have shown that the total number and compo- sition of intestinal microbes shift in old flies--these changes are associated with misregulation of intestinal immune signaling and a breakdown in intestinal compartmentalization  and barrier function .

through a targeted sequencing approach the current study measured changes to microbial composition at the genus level but specific changes detrimental to the aged host were not clear.

such studies may allow for a deeper characterization of the com- plex physiological changes impacting microbial homeostasis the sensitivity to microbial constituents in aged hosts and organismal decline with age.references .

aged mice born and raised germ free showed no decline in age-associated measures revealing that the absence of microbial factors is associ- ated with maintenance of intestinal integrity and low systemic inflammation.

alternatively changes to the total number or the composition of mi- crobes or both may be critical determi- nants of host health.although germ-free animals were pro- tected from age-related inflammation and intestinal barrier dysfunction age still sensitized these animals to microbial exposure.

consequently factorscrucial for intestinal commensal and organismal maintenance with age were identified in drosophila but until recently studies connecting these factors in aged mammalian models were not conclusive.

together these data suggest that age-related inflammation reduces the anti-bacterialactivity of macrophages.what influences systemic inflammation in aged mice the subsequent experi- ments of were based on a long-standing hypothesis recently supported in drosophila that in- testinal microbes expand into non- permissive areas as intestinal barrier function declines with age  .

aged tnf knockout mice did not show increased systemic inflammation with age and maintained intestinal barrier function.

while the current study adds to a growing body of literature demonstrating that late-life dysbiotic changes in intestinal microbiota are a negative occurrence in a range of animals   it is important to note that enteric microbes are funda- mental for proper metabolism and im-mune system development  .

nonetheless the studies reveal the extent to which microbiota- associated changes impact health in aged animals--a greater number of germ-free mice lived to 600 days compared to conventional animals.

as such future studies might focus on causative factors of age-associ- ated dysbiosis and discovering ways to maintain homeostatic intestinal microbes with age.an immediate approach could be to identify causative microbial shifts.

although the cur- rent report qualitatively measured alter- ations in microbial composition specific dysbiotic changes underlying barrier dysfunction were not identified.

further studies will be needed to determine if these age-related changes to microbial sensitivity extend beyond cytokine responses.the pathologies outlined in the current report parallel age-associated pheno- types in the fly suggesting that high- throughput fly studies can be used to complement mammalian studies ontransformations of aging host-microbe systems.

in this issue of cell host  microbe reveal that heightened inflammation is associated with deregulation of homeostatic in- teractions between intestinal microbes and the aging host.chronic inflammation is a prognostic marker of increased disease risk and mor- tality in the elderly  .

