in this regard whereas ccl20ccr6 clearly promotes treg cell influx into the skincell host  microbe 21 april 12 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. 419cell host  microbepreviewsintestinal tractmicrobiotal-specifica4b7ccr9 treg cells.treg cell development driven by specialized cd103 intestinal dcs.maternal iga and igg help limit t cell responsesskinmicrobiota-specific ccr6 treg cells.treg cell development in the thymus.treg cell influx triggered by commensal colonization.associated with tissue morphogenesis.maternal antibodyby the specialized cutaneous immune system.

indeed in mice tolerance to cutaneous microbes is enforced in part by the development and func- tion of commensal-specific foxp3 treg cells that migrate to the skin during the neonatal period when commensal colonizationmutualism is established .in the current issue of cell host  microbe further explore the signals driving this influx of treg cells to the skin in neonatal mice.

importantly ccr6-deficient treg cells failed to migrate efficiently to neonatal skin upon adoptive transferdemonstrating that induction of ccl20 linked to both hair follicle development and microbial colonization drives treg cell influx into neonatal skin and helps establish hostmicrobe mutualism in this tissue.the association between tissue devel- opment microbial colonization and estab- lishment of hostmicrobiota mutualism in the skin raises a number of important ques- tions regarding the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying these processes.

however although essential for preventing development of inflammatory disease in the skin the role of this treg migration axis in maintaining hostcommensal mutu- alism has not been addressed.it is also interesting to compare and contrast how tolerance to commensal or- ganisms is established during neonatal colonization of the skin versus gastroin- testinal tract where microbiota-specific treg cells also help maintain immune homeostasis .

in this context anti-inflam- matory regulatory t cells treg cells that express the transcription factor foxp3 are abundant in the skin  .

the importance of treg cells in modulating skin immunity is well established and dramatically exemplified by the severe inflammatory dermatitis that occurs in foxp3-deficient mice and humans.

they find that treg cell migration to the skin during the neonatal period is associated not only with colonization by microbes but also with the develop- mental process of hair follicle morpho- genesis.

hair follicles themselves are a major site of commensal colonization and are prominent sites of treg cell accu- mulation in the skin.

accordingly inhibit- ing hair follicle development diminished treg influx into the skin.

mechanistically treg cell influx was temporally associated with induction of a number of chemokines in the skin.

more- over the link between hair follicle develop- ment and treg influx raises the question of how this circuit functions in areas of the skin devoid of hair follicles and in organisms such as humans in which hair follicle development and microbial coloni- zation are temporally separated.

the identification of a loop driven by microbial colonization and tissue morphogenesis that promotes immune tolerance to commensals is an important step in defining how this delicate balance is established and how breakdowns in this process may contribute to the etiol- ogy and pathogenesis of inflammatory skin diseases.references .ueur figure 1. mechanisms establishing hostcommensal mutualism in the skin versus intestine .during commensal colonization in neo- nates in adult mice treg localization to the skin is largely dependent on the che- mokine receptor ccr4 and its ligands ccl17 and ccl22 .

in this case treg cells are thought to be largely derived from conventional naive t cells that encounter commensal-derived antigens presented by specialized intestinal den- dritic cells in the gut-draining mesenteric lymph nodes .

by contrast suggest that the ccr6 treg cells colo- nizing neonatal skin develop in the thymus raising the question of how mi- crobiota-specific cells are selected into this pool without local recognition in regional lymph nodes.

