epithelial integrity depends on constant and inducible iec renewal by pluripotent intestinal stem cells iscs which reside in the stem cell niche at the base of each intestinal crypt 12. genotoxic stress by total body irradiation tbi or chemotherapy affects isc and results in damage to the intestinal epithelium ultimately causing translocation of microbes to sterile compartments and subsequent immune activation 13. during allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation allo-hsct alteration of intestinal barrier function by chemotherapy or tbi administered before transplant has detrimental consequences misplaced bacterial components together with endogenous danger signals released during epithelial cell death are sensed by pattern recognition receptors on antigen-presenting cells which then produce proinflammatory cytokines and prime donor-derived t cells 13. these alloreactive t cells attack and destroy host tissues primarily the gastrointestinal tract liver and skin causing morbidity and mortality in a process called acute graft-versus-host disease gvhd.

2. mavs signaling in nonhematopoietic cells maintains intestinal barrier functiona average relative abundance of bacterial genera in the intestinal microbiota of cohoused mavs n  5 and mavs-- n  5 litter-mates.

2c compared to wt recipients of wt bm mavs bm transplanted into mavs recipients or wt recipients with mavs deleted in the hematopoietic system mavs-- bm transplanted into mavs recipients.

thus we hypothesized that activation of these pathways during pretransplant bone marrow bm ablative therapy in mice and during allo-hsct may protect epithelial integrity and could be exploited to promote intestinal barrier function and prevent gvhd.resultsendogenous rig-imavs signaling reduces intestinal tissue damage induced by conditioning therapy and attenuates gvhd in micewe first assessed genotoxic tissue damage and regeneration in wild-type wt mice and mice genetically deficient in mavs mavs--.

s6c.to determine the impact of endogenous rig-imavs signaling on intestinal regeneration during ongoing gvhd we next analyzed the capacity to form intestinal organoids ex vivo in mavs compared to mavs-- allo-hsct recipients.

mice were exposed to lethal tbi which caused damage to dividing cells and induced loss of intestinal epithelial barrier function 14 15. compared to mavs littermates mavs-- mice exhibited worse mucosal damage in the small intestine with increased crypt apoptosis villus atrophy crypt abscesses and granulocytic infiltrates fig.

s1a 17. consequently in an acute gvhd model where conditioning-associated intestinal damage is crucial for subsequent allogeneic t cell-mediated pathology we observed that mavs-- recipients of allogeneic donor bm and t cells had increased mortality compared to mavs littermates fig.

given that cohoused wt and mavs-- or stinggtgt mice harbored similar intestinal bacterial populations it is unlikely that differences in bacterial composition contributed to thefischer et al.page 9protective role of mavs or sting during gvhd development unlike what has been proposed for ifn-i-mediated control of paneth cell function 33. rig-i-- mouse recipients of allogeneic bm and t cells similarly suffered from worse gvhd and there was a nonsignificant trend toward higher mortality and more weight loss in rig-i-- mouse recipients receiving allogeneic bm only.

6. rig-i activation protects iscs after allo-hscta qpcr expression of lysozyme p and lgr5 in small intestine biopsies from mavs or mavs-- c57bl6 recipient mice after allo-hsct with 5 x 106 bm cells and 2 x 106 t cells from balbc wt donor mice.

alternatively bmi iscs considered to be injury-inducible cells with full potential for epithelial regeneration shortly after irradiation damage 39 could be targets for rig-imavs- sting- or ifn-i- dependent signals.under conditions of chronic viral challenge and chronic ifn-i signaling myeloid cells are the main target of ifn-i signals controlling epithelial barrier integrity through secretion of apolipoproteins l9ab 10. in addition natural killer cells both donor or recipient reduce inflammation after irradiation-induced gut epithelial barrier loss and gvhd in several mouse models 40 and are activated by ifn-i after 3prna injection 22. non-iec ifn-i targets could contribute to the 3prna-induced protection against gut barrier loss and gvhd.

unlike chemical injury of intestinal mucosa irradiation- or chemotherapy- induced intestinal barrier dysfunction is a problem clinically.mucosal barriers like the intestinal epithelial cell iec layer protect sterile microenvironments from physical chemical and microbial challenge.

s1e.mavs signaling in nonhematopoietic cells maintains intestinal barrier function and attenuates gvhd in micegiven that the rig-imavs pathway senses bacterial rna 18 one hypothesis to explain our findings is that there may be mouse strain-specific differences in the intestinal bacterial microbiota.

1 a and b. neutrophil influx into the gut mucosa a surrogate marker for intestinal integrity 16 was higher in mavs-- compared to mavs littermatesfischer et al.page 4after tbi fig.

we could not detect differences between the intestinal bacterial composition of co-housed mavs-- and mavs littermates as assessed by 16s ribosomal rna rrna sequencing fig.

to assess the direct impact of rig-i signaling and ifn-i on iecs we used an ex vivo organoid system composed of mouse primary small intestine crypts 26. each of these epithelial mini-guts contained a functional isc compartment that consisted of lgr5 iscs and supportive niche cells paneth cells 26. crypts cultured ex vivo grew into organoids with crypt buds that recapitulated the in vivo intestinal organization including crypt villus structures and central lumen markers 27. fewer epithelial organoids were derived from ifnar1-- compared to ifnar1 mice suggesting a crucial role for type i ifn signaling in epithelial regeneration fig.

