bioaugmentation with bacteria selected from the microbiome enhancesarthrocnemum macrostachyum metal accumulation and tolerancesalvadora navarro-torre  jose m. barcia-piedras  miguel a. caviedes  eloisa pajuelo susana redondo-gomez  ignacio d. rodriguez-llorente  enrique mateos-naranjo a departamento de microbiologia y parasitologia facultad de farmacia universidad de sevilla calle profesor garcia gonzalez 2 41012 sevilla spainb departamento de biologia vegetal y ecologia facultad de biologia universidad de sevilla 1095 41012 sevilla spainc ifapa centro las torres -tomejil ctra sevilla-cazalla km 12200 41200 alcala del rio sevilla spaina r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 4 november 2016received in revised form 1 february 2017accepted 5 february 2017available online 10 february 2017keywordsarthrocnemum macrostachyumendophytic bacteria metal pollution pgpbphytoremediation rhizospheric bacteriaa b s t r a c t a glasshouse experiment was designed to investigate the role of bacterial consortia isolated from the endosphere ce and rhizosphere cr of arthrocnemum macrostachyum on its metal uptake capacity and tolerance in plants grown in metal polluted sediments.

among all the isolates the strains vibrio kanaloae ra1 pseudoalteromonas distinct ra8 pseudoalteromonas prydzensis ra15 and staphylococcus warneri ra18 isolated from the rhizosphere of a. macrostachyum and the strains 0025-326xc 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.kushneria marisflavi eaod3 micrococcus aloeverae eaod10 bacillus vietnamensis ear8 and halomonas zincidurans ear18 isolated from the endosphere were proposed as the best candidates to design two bacte- rial consortia aimed to inoculate a. macrostachyum plants to improve its metal remediation potential .

the aim of this study was to investigate the role of bacteria isolated from the microbiome of a. macrostachyum in its metal uptake capacityand tolerance to metal excess.material and methodsplant and sediment sourceseeds of a. macrostachyum and samples of the first 15 cm of sedi- ment around the plants were collected in march 2015 from the odiel marshes 37deg15'n 6deg58'w sw spain and subsequently transported to the laboratory.

thus we employed a consortium with bacteria isolated from the rhizosphere cr of a. macrostachyum integrated by the strains vibrio kanaloae ra1 pseudoalteromonas dis- tinct ra8 pseudoalteromonas prydzensis ra15 and staphylococcus warneri ra18 and a consortium with four endophytic strains ce two isolated from plant phyllosphere kushneria marisflavi eaod3 and micrococcus aloeverae eaod10 and two from roots of a. macrostachyum bacillus vietnamensis ear8 and halomonas zincidurans ear18.

in october 2015 after four months of a. macrostachyum plant growth under glasshouse conditions described above the perlite of a. macrostachyum plants was washed off and plants were transferred to individual 250 ml plastic pots one plant per pot and each pot was placed in an individual shallow tray filled with a homogenate of odiel sediment.

n  7. different letters indicate means that are significantly different from each other p b 0.05.photosynthetic carbon assimilation of a. macrostachyum plants grown in bioaugmented sediments.furthermore other physiological effect recorded in this study was the differential modulation of the antioxidant responses of a. macrostachyum plants grown in bioaugmentated sediments.

so it is possible as we previously indicat- ed that in certain degree the metals inside of roots could be sequestered by endophytic bacteria avoiding its interaction with essential metabolic processes of a. macrostachyum plants however this area deserves fur- ther research.conclusionwe can conclude that sediment bioaugmentation with appropriate pgpb isolated from the microbiome of a. macrostachyum plants con- tribute to improve its phytoremediation efficiency.

a. macrostachyum plants were randomly assigned to three bioaugmentation treatments ce cr and without inoculation during 120 days.

bioaugmentation with both bacterial consortia en- hanced a. macrostachyum capacity to accumulate ions in its roots while shoot ions concentration only increased with ce treatment.

these findings indicated that bacteria selected from the microbiome can be claimed to improve a. macrostachyum metal remediation efficiency.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionphytoremediation is a promising clean-up solution to act upon of the organic and inorganic pollutants in a wide variety of contaminated sites by extracting degrading or immobilizing them through the use of plants .

therefore this study was designed to contribute to fill these gaps of knowledge.arthrocnemum macrostachyum moric c. koch is a common halo- phytic shrub in sw iberian peninsula which is distributed in coastal areas through mediterranean basin to the middle east and asia .

in addition recently isolated different bacterial strains from the rhizosphere and endosphere of a. macrostachyum plants from the odiel estuary which exhibited several plant growth promoting pgp properties even in the presence of heavy metals.

also differences between ions concentration in shoots and roots were compared by the student test t-test.results and discussionimpact of sediment bioaugmentation on ions uptake and transport capacityin this work we have treated to elucidate the role of two bacterial consortia isolated from the rhizosphere and the endosphere roots and shoots of a. macrostachyum in its metal uptake and transport capacity from roots to shoots.

our metal analysis results showed as previously indicated by several authors   that a. macrostachyum is ca- pable of accumulating large amounts of metal on its tissues.

moreover our results indicated that sedi- ment bioaugmentation with both bacterial consortia rhizospheric cr and endophytic ce favoured the capacity of a. macrostachyum to accu- mulate ions in its roots without great differences between them one- way anova p b 0.05 a-f. thus the increases in root ions con- centration for ce and cr treatments were 112 and 61 for as 33 and 37 for cr 89 and 30 for cu 114 and 84 for pb 34 and 42 for ni and 117 and 69 for zn respectively.

