Our analysis of the lung microbiome revealed that the bacterial communities present in the EVs and in the COPD group possessed distinct characteristics with differences in the OTUs diversity indexes and PCA clustering.Experimental  Molecular Medicine 2017 49 e316 doi17 published online 14 April 2017INTRODUCTIONChronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD is the third leading cause of death worldwide.Among several risk factors for COPD cigarette smoking is the main factor.

All rights reserved 2092-641317The microbiome of the lung and its extracellular vesicles in nonsmokers healthy smokers and COPD patientsHyun Jung Kim12 You-Sun Kim3 Kang-Hyun Kim4 Jun-Pyo Choi4 Yoon-Keun Kim5 Sunmi Yun6 Lokesh Sharma7 Charles S Dela Cruz7 Jae Seung Lee2 Yeon-Mok Oh2 Sang-Do Lee2 and Sei Won Lee2Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD is a chronic inflammatory disease and bacterial infection plays a role in its pathogenesis.

In the healthy smoker and COPD groups EVs had a higher Shannon index and a lower Simpson index than lung tissue and this trend was more prominent in the COPD group.

However smoking does not explain all of the aspects of this condition because COPD can develop in nonsmokers and more than half of smokers do not have COPD.Patients with COPD exhibit persistent inflammation despite smoking cessation.

That study has also suggested that patients with chronic respiratory diseases are highly sensitized to environmental EVs.To elucidate the relationship between bacterial inflammation and COPD the contribution of the bacterial community present in the EVs should be considered.We hypothesized that lung EVs might display specific microbiome characteristics in COPD.

COPD was defined as a ratio of o0.7 between forced expiratory volume in 1 s FEV1 per forced vital capacity FVC.The COPD group included individuals with the same smoking criteria as in the healthy smoker group.

The difference in diversity indices between lung tissue and lung EVs was most prominent in the COPD group followed by the healthy smoker and nonsmoker groups 2.The mean beta diversities for OTUs between lung tissue andlung EVs from each patient were 42.2 - 10.7 in the nonsmoker group 45.9 - 12.8 in the healthy smoker group and47.4 - 12.4 in the COPD group.

The COPD group showed the highest beta diversity between lung tissue and lung EVs 168 in nonsmokers 161 in healthy smokers and 208 in the COPD group.

The proportion of Firmicutes in the COPD lung EVs was significantly higher than in the healthy smoker lung EVs 27.0 vs 13.4 P  0.037 one-way analysis of variance and Tukey's post hoc analysis or in the COPD lung tissue samples 27.0 vs 11.3 P  0.026 paired t-test.

b The Simpson index for lung tissue was highest in the COPD group and lowest in the nonsmoker group thus indicating that there were some dominant organisms in the COPD group.

