it is present in the intestine at relativelylow abundance however it can act as a pathobiont by causing diarrhea and has been associated-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------figure 2the role of prokaryotic microbes in cancer initiation and progression.

new evidence that the composition of the gut microbiota modulates the response to immunother- apy opens new possibilities of improving outcomes 53 205 206.an early study showed that in mice preconditioned with total body irradiation tbi before receiving adoptive t cell therapy the antitumor effect was dependent on the presence of gut-------------------------------------------------------------------------figure 3gut microbiota in cancer therapy.

microbiota-depleted mice recover their ability to respond to anti-ctla-4 therapy whenfragilis-specific t cells are adoptively transferred 205. a similar observation was reported formucosal damage induced by infection that also induces a persistent memory th1 cell response against commensal bacteria that upon reinfection at the same anatomical site prime for apolarized th1 response 14. however in the case of the anti-ctla-4 treatment the mucosal response to commensals and the antitumor response are at different anatomical sites and the mechanism regulating migration and tropism of the t cells involved is not yet understood.unlike anti-ctla4 anti-pd-l1 treatment in mice does not induce intestinal damage and its anticancer effect does not have an absolute requirement for the presence of gut commensals 206. however b16 melanoma grew faster in c57bl6 mice purchased from taconic tac than in those purchased from jackson laboratory  jax 206. anti-pd-l1 almost completelyarrested growth of the smoldering tumors of jax mice whereas it only slowed the progression of the faster-growing tumors of tac mice 206. more cd8 t cells infiltrated within tumors in jax mice compared to tac mice suggesting that the slower tumor growth and better re- sponsiveness to anti-pd-l1 in jax mice was due to a more robust anticancer immune responsetac mice cohoused with jax mice acquired the same rate of tumor growth antitumor resistance and responsiveness to anti-pd-l1 observed in jax mice 206. the responsiveness of jax mice to anti-pd-l1 correlated with the fecal abundancy of the bifidobacterium species in- cluding b. breve b. longum and b. adolescentis 206. a commercially available probiotic cocktail ofbifidobacterium species including b. breve and b. longum administered alone or with anti-pd-l1 to tac mice enhanced cd8 t cell-induced antitumor activity 206. treatment of tac mice with bifidobacterium spp.

how- ever paradoxically results in il-18-deficient mice suggest that in the large intestine this cytokine has anti-inflammatory properties and mediates mucosal protective mechanisms 147. mice defi- cient in il-18 il-18r and myd88 as well as those deficient for inflammasome-related genes which are unable to process pro-il-18 are more susceptible to dextran sulfate sodium dss- induced colitis azoxymethane aomdss-induced colitis-associated cancer and diet-induced nonalcoholic steatohepatitis 148. these mice also have gut dysbiosis characterized by increased abundance of the phyla bacteroidetes prevotellaceae and tm7 and greater susceptibility to colon carcinogenesis that can be transferred to wild-type mice by cohousing or by fecal transplant 128. commensal bacteria and protists induce production of il-18 in intestinal epithelial cells by tran- scriptionally inducing the production of pro-il-18 which is then cleaved into biologically active il-18 by inflammasomes 149 150. bacteria-induced scfas activate the epithelial cell inflam- masome via the metabolite-sensing receptors gpr43 and gpr109a 149. scfas also act on macrophages dendritic cells and t cells in particular causing the expansion of il-10-producing tregs that limit colonic inflammation and carcinogenesis 151 152. whether nlrp3 andor nlrp6 are involved in il-18 induction remains controversial and diametric results have been published by different laboratories 153. the discordant data could be explained by variations in the composition of the microbiota in different animal facilities and by the differential distribution of the two inflammasomes in epithelial and hematopoietic cells.the ability of il-18 to protect the mucosa depends on its regulation of il-22 production andavailability 154-156. il-22 is produced by t cells and innate lymphoid cells in the intestinal lamina propria and through activation of stat3 induces epithelial cell proliferation and produc- tion of antibacterial peptides 155. three regulatory mechanisms have been proposed a il-18 inhibits il-22 binding protein il-22bp production by macrophages b il-18 is required for il-22 production by t lymphocytes and innate lymphoid cells and c in a positive feedback loop il-22 induces pro-il-18 but not its processing by inflammasomes in intestinal epithelial cells 154-156. in different experimental models of colon carcinogenesis il-22 which promotes mucosa repair has been observed to be pro- or anticarcinogenic depending on the extent of mu- cosal damage in the carcinogenic model 154. the paradoxical ability of the proinflammatory cytokine il-18 to protect from colitis and colon carcinogenesis 154 may be explained by a re- cent report showing that il-18 protects against mucosal inflammation by maintaining a protective microbiota 157. this article reports that il-18 signaling in intestinal epithelial cells prevented mucus-forming goblet cells from maturing and mice that were deficient for il-18 or il-18r in intestinal epithelial cells and that were cohoused with wild-type mice to equalize the microbiota composition were resistant to dss-induced colitis 157.in several experimental models scfas acting through the gpr109a receptors are anti-inflammatory and decrease incidence of colon and mammary cancer 152 158. some bacterial species contribute more than others to scfas levels such as the butyrate-producing members ofclostridium cluster xiva 159. scfas particularly butyrate and propionate are also inhibitors of histone deacetylases and downregulate expression of proinflammatory genes such as il-6 and tumor necrosis factor tnf 160. however reducing the production of scfas using either antibiotics or a carbohydrate-poor diet decreases incidence of colonic polyps in apcmin msh2 -- mice 161. this procarcinogenic effect of scfa-producing bacteria was not dependent on inflammation or dna damage but on induction of hyperproliferation and aberrant b-catenin signaling in msh2 -- cells 161.although the microbiota is present on all barrier surfaces scarce and mostly correlative data are available for the role of the local microbiota in cancer development outside the gastrointestinal tract.

colonic h. hepaticus infection increases ileal and colonic carcinogenesis in apcmin mice and in aom-treated rag2-- mice byinducing il-22 production by innate lymphoid cells 155 169. it also promotes mammary and prostate carcinoma in apcminrag2-- mice 124 170 and enhances chemical and viral liver carcinogenesis 124 171. however in rag2-sufficient animals h. hepaticus infection protects against intestinal and mammary carcinogenesis by inducing il-10-producing tregs 172. in a different model of mammary carcinogenesis based on expression of sv40 t antigen under the control of sex steroid hormones infection with h. hepaticus increases tumor multiplicity affecting migration of neutrophils into the mammary gland 173.variation in intestinal microbes between different animal facilities or as a consequence of experimental perturbations profoundly affects incidence of lymphoma and survival of atm ataxia telangiectasia mutated-deficient mice 174. the gut microbiota contributes to the incidence of thymic lymphoma in these animals by modulating the tnf-regulated inflammatory tone and by inducing oxidative stress as well as genotoxicity in leukocytes and epithelial cells 170 171 174 175. in mice tlr5-mediated recognition of commensal microbiota induces production of il-6 and recruitment of myeloid-derived suppressor cells enhancing progression of malignant tumors at distal extramucosal locations 176.bacteria as anticancer treatmentfollowing the personal and historical observations of tumor regression associated with acute bac- terial infections at the end of the nineteenth century the new york surgeon william coley successfully treated soft tissue sarcoma patients with coley's toxins a combination of streptococ- cus pyogenes and gram-negative bacillus prodigiosus serratia marcescens providing evidence that a severe localized infection may induce a systemic antitumor immune response 177. subsequently several bacteria or bacterial preparations such as corynebacterium parvum and the streptococcal preparation ok-432 were tested in cancer therapy local treatment with bacille calmette gue'rin an attenuated strain of mycobacterium bovis is still a first-line therapy for superficial bladder carci- noma 178. many genera of bacteria including salmonella escherichia and clostridium preferen- tially accumulate in tumors when delivered systemically and have been tested as anticancer agents 179. a major limitation of cancer therapies is that large tumors contain hypoxic necrotic and quiescent regions in which the tumor cells do not proliferate.

can only proliferate in hypoxic regions of the tumors when they are delivered as spores they germinate and prolifer- ate with antitumor effects only in the hypoxic tissues 180. although the use of spores could be considered for large hypoxic tumors small tumors or metastases are better oxygenated and might be better treated with facultative anaerobes such as salmonella and escherichia that are attracted by small molecules released by tumors 181. the ideal bacterial therapeutic would have the fol- lowing properties toxic for tumor cells but not normal cells selective for the tumor particularly regions not targeted by conventional therapies susceptible to immunological clearance but not immediately destroyed by the immune response proliferative and genetically modifiable 181. furthermore the therapeutic bacteria should be mobile and allow genetic alteration to reduce systemic toxicity and localization in the tumors 182 183. for example deletion in salmonella of the trg gene that encodes a sugar-sensing transmembrane receptor allows the bacteria to deeply penetrate within poorly vascularized and nutrient-poor regions of the tumor 183. bacterial therapeutics can be used for delivery of antitumor molecules such as toxin cytokines antigens and antibodies as well as for transfer of genes encoding molecules with antitumor activity 179 182. the advantages of bacterial cancer therapies include not only their efficacy when othertherapies fail but also their tumor tropism and ability to proliferate and maintain favorable phar- macokinetics for an extended period of time 179.cancer chemotherapy and the microbiotathe microbiota regulates the response of different types of cancer chemotherapy by affecting their pharmacokinetics mechanism of action and toxicity 184 185 figure 3. intestinal host and bacterial enzymes control the bioavailability of many oral drugs 186. exposure to xenobiotics including chemotherapy agents alters the composition physiology and gene expression of the human gut microbiota 187. the gut microbiota also metabolizes injected drugs after biliary excre- tion and reabsorption 188. for example tissue carboxylesterase transforms irinotecan cpt-11 an intravenous topoisomerase i inhibitor used for colorectal cancer treatment into its active form sn-38 which is then detoxified in the liver by udp-glucuronosyltransferases becoming inactive sn-38-g before being secreted in the gut 188. when bacterial b-glucuronidase reconverts sn- 38-g in the gut into sn-38 intestinal toxicity and diarrhea are observed 189. b-glucuronidase activity in the human gut is mostly associated with abundance of firmicutes particularly within clostridial clusters xiva and iv 190. intestinal inflammation induced by cpt-11 therapy can be successfully treated with antibiotics to decrease the abundance of b-glucuronidase-positive bacteria or with bacterial b-glucuronidase-specific inhibitors 191.platinum-based anticancer drugs inhibit dna replication by forming intrastrand platinum- dna adducts and double-stranded breaks 192. in addition to inducing tumor cell cytotoxicity and apoptosis platinum drugs cause severe intestinal toxicity nephrotoxicity and peripheral neu- ropathy that compromise the quality of life 193-195. in germfree mice or in mice depleted of gut commensals using nonabsorbable broad-spectrum antibiotics the antitumor efficacy of ox- aliplatin or cisplatin is dramatically decreased 53. in the absence of commensal microbiota the drugs still reach the tumor and form platinum-dna adducts but dna damage is severely atten- uated 53. the microbiota is necessary for training tumor-infiltrating myeloid cells to produce reactive oxygen species ros via nadph oxidase 2 nox2 which is necessary for platinum compound-induced dna damage 53. mice deficient for the cybb gene encoding the gp91phox chain of nox2 and mice treated with antibodies depleting myeloid cells are poorly responsive to oxaliplatin 53. although ros were known to be involved in the induction of dna damage and apoptosis of the tumor cells the source of ros was expected to be autocrine 196. however observations in microbiota-depleted mice are more compatible with paracrine production of ros by nox2-expressing and ros-producing tumor infiltrating myeloid cells 53. administration of lactobacillus acidophilus to antibiotics-treated mice restores cisplatin antitumor activity 197. how precisely the gut commensals and l. acidophilus prime myeloid cells for ros production in response to platinum drugs is still unclear.

onset of colitis and hypophysitis is mostly observed in re- sponse to anti-ctla-4 antibodies whereas blocking pd1pd-l1 interactions can lead to thyroid dysfunctions and pneumonitis 215. variability in patient response and susceptibility to adverse reactions has been primarily attributed to the genetic characteristics of the tumors including the number of mutations and possibly the number of neoantigens however the immune status of the patient and the possible effect of the microbiota in modulating it are additional important factors 213 214.two recent studies have identified the important role of the microbiota in modulating theefficacy of anti-ctla-4 and anti-pd-l1 therapy 205 206. the anti-ctla-4 treatment was found to be ineffective in antibiotic-treated mice and in germfree mice 205. treatment of mice with anti-ctla-4 antibodies consistently induces t cell-mediated mucosal damage in the ileum and colon and alters the proportion of bacterial species both in the intestine and in the feces 205. bacteroides thetaiotaomicron or b. fragilis when orally administered to microbiota-depleted mice corrected the deficient response to anti-ctla-4 by activating intratumoral dendritic cells and inducing a th1 response in the tumor-draining lymph nodes 205. of particular interest introducing b. fragilis and burkholderia cepacia combined not only enhanced the anticancer response but also prevented the intestinal inflammation and colitis induced by anti-ctla-4 205. the correlation between adverse effects and microbiota composition was confirmed by clinical trials in which the increased frequency of the bacteroidetes phylum was found to be correlated with resistance to colitis whereas underrepresented genetic pathways involved in polyamine transport and b vitamin biosynthesis were associated with increased risk 216. in mice selective antibiotics alter the composition of the gut microbiota affecting the anti-ctla-4 response e.g.

treatment with prebiotics probiotics and symbiotics could prevent dysbiosisafter chemotherapy and reduce inflammation in the gut and liver although data from stringent clinical trials are needed 200.antitumor treatment with the alkylating agent cyclophosphamide ctx rapidly damages the mouse gut epithelial barrier by increasing mucosal permeability resulting in transmucosal translocation of gram-positive gut bacteria such as lactobacillus johnsonii lactobacillus murinus and enterococcus hirae into the mesenteric lymph nodes 201. within a week ctx treatment also alters the composition of commensals in the small intestine of mice similar to what ob- served in cancer patients 201 202. ctx treatment selectively reduces firmicutes clostridium cluster xiva roseburia coprococcus and unclassified lachnospiraceae and spirochaetes particularlytreponema genus phyla in the small intestinal mucosa while it enhances gram-positive bacteria mainly l. johnsonii l. murinus e. hirae and l. reuteri some of which translocate into mesen- teric lymph nodes 201. ctx induces immunogenic tumor cell death that in concert with the translocated gram-positive bacteria and the accumulation of the gram-negative barnesiella intes- tinihominis in the colon activates pathogenic t helper 17 pth17 cells and memory th1 immune responses that mediate an antitumor adaptive immune response 201 203. the pth17 responses and the antitumor effect of ctx treatment are reduced in germfree mice and in mice depleted of gram-positive bacteria by antibiotics 201. the antitumor effect of ctx can be restored in microbiota-depleted mice by adoptive transfer of pth17 cells 201.immunotherapy and the gut microbiotaimmunotherapy is one of the greatest successes of cancer research 204. enduring complete responses have been obtained in patients with metastatic melanoma and lung cancer even when previous treatments failed.

these then pro- mote t cell-mediated antitumor immunity to permanently eliminate the tumors in most mice 208. in germfree mice or mice whose gut microbiota has been depleted by antibiotic treatment tumor-infiltrating myeloid cell production of proinflammatory cytokines in response to cpg- odn is poor preventing the induction of tnf-dependent necrosis and antitumor adaptive im- munity 53. tumors of microbiota-depleted mice have only minor alterations in the number and differentiation of tumor-infiltrating myeloid cells mostly derived by recruited ly6c circulating inflammatory monocytes.

myeloid cells from tlr4- deficient tumor-bearing mice are also partially unresponsive to cpg-odn and administration of lipopolysaccharide by gavage to microbiota-depleted mice reconstitutes the myeloid cell response to cpg suggesting that activation of tlr4 by products of commensal bacteria primes tumor myeloid cells for responsiveness to tlr9 53. these results are reminiscent of the reported in- ability of mononuclear phagocytes in nonmucosal lymphoid organs of germfree mice to respond to microbial stimulation with transcription of inflammatory genes due to epigenetically closed chro- matin conformation at those loci 34. thus colonizing the mice postnatally introduces chromatin changes in the myeloid cells poising them for rapid responses to inflammatory stimuli similar to the phenomenon of trained innate resistance recently reported for various innate effector cell types 34 211. however this epigenetic conformation can be reversed by antibiotic-induced de- pletion of the commensal microbiota for two to three weeks suggesting either that this chromatin conformation is not stable and requires continued instructions from the commensal microbiota or that inflammatory monocytes are newly generated in the bone marrow and require training 53. the ability of the tumor-infiltrating myeloid cells from animals with altered microbiota to produce tnf in response to cpg-odn intratumoral treatment correlated with the abundance of specific bacterial genera.

germfree mice are deficient in bone marrow-derived peripheral myeloid pop- ulations 40. recolonization of these mice with microbes provides cues from microbe-associated molecular patterns mamps and short-chain fatty acids scfas to promote hematopoietic ho- meostasis by activating innate immune receptors 40-42. the maturation of the yolk sac-derived central nervous system microglia and their ability to respond to infections was also defective in germfree mice.

108 109. the role of the gut microbiota in regulating liver pathology and progression to hcc in mice has been clearly documented 110. interestingly young mice similarly to neonates or young children fail to clear hbv infection in a hydrodynamic transfection model until an adult-like gut microbiota is established 111. oncogene-carrying viruses hpvs and hbv require inflammation to promote tumorigenesis but this may indeed apply to all oncogenic viruses 112 including the previously mentioned rous sarcoma virus 57. as the limited data hitherto published suggest that the com- mensal microbiota may be involved in regulating the response to infection and progression to cancer these represent possible targets for preventive and therapeutic interventions for cancer.gastric infection with h. pylori is strongly associated with noncardiac gastric carcinoma andlymphoma 62. yet approximately half of the world population is infected with h. pylori and in most cases this infection only develops into well-tolerated gastritis.

mechanisms of bacteria-mediated carcinogenesis have been well characterized in mice using several microbial species including enterococcus faecalis streptococcus gallolyticus en- teropathogenic e. coli etbf helicobacter hepaticus salmonella enterica and fusobacterium nucleatum 64 65 129. the bacterial genera odoribacter and akkermansia are reportedly enriched in colon cancer-bearing mice 130 and archaea such as the order methanobacteriales have been found in the fecal microbiota of patients with colorectal cancer 131.fusobacterium spp.

this improved the proliferation and antitumor effect of the transferred cd8 t cells 207. the beneficial effect of tbi on therapy efficacy was lost in tlr4-deficient mice and in antibiotic-treated mice 207. administration of the tlr4 ago- nist lipopolysaccharide to nonirradiated animals enhanced the efficacy of transferred t cells 207. intratumoral administration of the tlr9 agonist cpg oligonucleotide cpg-odn along with il-10r-blocking antibodies induces a strong inflammatory antitumor response character- ized by secretion of proinflammatory cytokines such as tnf and il-12 that was potentiated by antagonizing the immunosuppressive role of il-10 produced by tregs and myeloid cells 208- 210. cpg-odnanti-il-10r treatment induces rapid hemorrhagic necrosis and repolarization of tumor-infiltrating dendritic cells and macrophages to a proinflammatory state.

tumor-infiltrating myeloid cell subsets in microbiota-depleted mice show modest alterations in their gene expression profile compared with conventional mice.

