il-1b level also significantly increased in anp rats at 24h and 48h compared with that in the so groups both p0.05 and had higher level at 48h than that at 24hchanges in intestinal barrier permeability and the expression of inflammatory cytokines in the plasma and the distal ileum during anp.

all above these indicated that intestinal barrier dysfunction happened in anp and rats at 48h after anp induction had the most severe injury in intestine.changes in intestinal microbiota diversity and structure in anpa total of 325300 high-quality sequences and 899 otus were obtained using pyrosequencing from the twenty samples of the so48h and anp48h groups.

all above these suggested that anp might play a vital role in leading to the gut microbial structure changes.antimicrobial peptides expression decreased in anpto investigate the alterations in paneth cells during anp real-time pcr western blot and immunofluorescence were used to measure lysozyme and a-defensin5 in mrna and protein expression levels.

taken together these findings demonstrated the abnormality of paneth cells during anp and implied that the dysfunction of paneth cells was involved in intestinal barrier failure in anp.

however the exact underlying mechanism between paneth cells and intestinal barrier during anp need further research.in summary the current study showed that anp rats had aggravated systemic inflammation and intestinal barrier injury.

theabstractobjectivesintestinal barrier dysfunction plays an important role in acute necrotizing pancreatitis anp and intestinal microbiota dysbiosis was involved in intestinal barrier failure.

here we investigated changes in intestinal microbiota and antimicrobial peptides of paneth cells in ileum during anp.methodsrats with anp were established by retrograde injection of 3.5 sodium taurocholate into biliopancreatic duct and sacrificed at 24h and 48h respectively.

16s rrna high throughput sequencing on fecal samples was used to investigate the changes in intestinal microbiota in the anp group at 48h.

principal component analysis pca showed structural segregation between the so and anp groups.

operational taxo- nomic unit otu number and ace index revealed decreased microbiota diversity in the anp group.

lysozyme and a- defensin5 mrna expression levels decreased significantly in anp group at 48h.

protein expression of lysozyme decreased in anp groups at 24h and 48h.

meanwhile the relative abundance of escherichia-shigella correlated inversely with the decrease in lysozyme.conclusionthe disorder in intestinal microbiota and decreases of paneth cell antimicrobial peptides might participate in the pathogenesis of intestinal barrier dysfunction during anp.introductionacute necrotizing pancreatitis anp is a serious systemic disease with a mortality of 7 to 15 .

the intestinal barrier dysfunction plays a pivotal role in the development of anp.

recently many animal experiments and clinical studies have reported that anp is tightly related to intestinal barrier failure  .

