there is growing interest by pharmaceutical companies in agonists or antagonists of metabolite-sensing receptors although to date there are disclosed tool compounds for only a few receptors.expression of metabolite-sensing gpcrs on immune cells gut epithelia and metabolically relevant tissuesa fascinating feature of metabolite-sensing gpcrs is their role in gut homeostasis immunity and metabolism.

for example scfas are able to regulate t cell differentiation by modulating the mtor- s6k pathway via an hdac inhibition pathway independent of gpcr signaling 110. whether gaq-coupled receptors such as gpr43 and gpr41 see table 1 can influence mtor signaling in other immune subsets andor in vivo awaits validation.functions of metabolite-sensing gpcrsregulation of the inflammasome and gut homeostasisgpr43 is expressed both by immune cells and by the gut epithelium.

however the profound influence of the gut microbiome and nutrition on many systems neural cardiovascular liver respiratory suggests that metabolites influence biology far beyond the gastrointestinal tract.identification and characterization of metabolite-sensing gpcrsmost of the metabolite-sensing gpcrs have not been studied extensively but several recent high-profile publications point to their importance for regulating immune responses 8 9. many of the metabolite sensors listed in table 1 were only identified in the 1990s through large-scale sequencing efforts and these sensors were deorphaned in the 2000s 10-16. although there are gene-deficient mice available for many of the metabolite-sensing gpcrs there are hardly any specific monoclonal antibodies against these receptors.

bile acids are also involved in regulating lipid and cholesterol metabolism and are implicated in type 2 diabetes ibd and colon cancer.while they are not strictly dietary metabolite sensors it is worth noting that bile acid-sensing gpcrs notably tgr5 gpr131 can recognize primary and secondary bacteria-derived bile acid metabolites to elicit a plethora of metabolic and immune effects all highly regulated by the interaction of diet and the gut microbiota 77. secondary bile acids are principal ligands for tgr5 and in particular lithocholic acid and taurolithocholic acid are the most potent activators of tgr5 78. it has also been reported that diet-derived oleanolic acid a component found in olive oil garlic etc.

similar to the role of gpr43 signaling in the gut to yield the gut homeostasis cytokine il-18 gpr43 signaling in peripheral immune cells resulted in nlrp3 activation and cleaved il-1b 116 and this contributed to gouty arthritis.metabolite sensors and treg cell biologyto date three main receptors--gpr43 gpr109a and gpr35--have been shown to influence the number or function of peripherally derived tregs also known as induced tregs.

gpr65 is also activated by psychosine a cytotoxic sphingolipid 65. northern blot analysis of human tissue revealed substantial gpr65 expression in blood leukocytes and spleen alongside moderate expression in lymph nodes thymus lung and small intestine 66. gpr65 is expressed on a variety of immune cells including t and b lymphocytes neutrophils eosinophils and mast cells 67 68. glucocorticoid treatment of t cells induces gpr65 expres- sion whereby gpr65 enhances glucocorticoid-induced t cell apoptosis 69 70. activation of gpr65 under acidic conditions has been associated with increased viability of eosinophils and lym- phomas 67 71. indeed the expression of gpr65 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells highly correlates with the expression of antiapoptotic protein b cell lymphoma 2 bcl2 72. multi- ple genome-wide association studies have associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms snps in gpr65 with increased susceptibility to ibd 73-75. a recent study found that these snps were associated with enhanced bacteria-induced colitis due to impaired lysosomal function identifying a possible explanation for enhanced ibd pathogenesis from impaired gpr65 signaling 76.bile acid-sensing gpcrsbile acids are synthesized by the liver and secreted in the intestinal tract as part of bile required for the absorption of fats including fat-soluble vitamins a d e and k as well as lcfas.

85837-43contentsgenetics of infectious and inflammatory diseases overlapping discoveries from association and exome-sequencing studiesdavid langlais nassima fodil and philippe gros1the lymphatic system integral roles in immunityand joshua p. scallan31toshinori nakayama kiyoshi hirahara atsushi onodera yusuke endohiroyuki hosokawa kenta shinoda damon j. tumes and yoshitaka okamoto53jakub abramson and graham anderson85mucosal ecological network of epithelium and immune cells for gutyosuke kurashima and hiroshi kiyono119the biology and underlying mechanisms of cross-presentation of exogenous antigens on mhc-i moleculesand kenneth l. rock149maninjay k. atianand daniel r. caffrey and katherine a. fitzgerald177microbes and canceramiran dzutsev jonathan h. badger ernesto perez-chanona soumen royrosalba salcedo carolyne k. smith and giorgio trinchieri199synthetic immunology hacking immune cells to expand theirkole t. roybal and wendell a. lim229florian weisel and mark shlomchik255and jeffrey v. ravetch285annual review of immunologyvolume 35 2017vintracellular nucleic acid detection in autoimmunityjohn t. crowl elizabeth e. gray kathleen pestal hannah e. volkmanand daniel b. stetson313understanding human autoimmunity and autoinflammation through transcriptomicsromain banchereau alma-martina cepika jacques banchereauand virginia pascual337metabolite-sensing g protein-coupled receptors--facilitators of diet-related immune regulationand charles r. mackay371arup k. chakraborty403marco colonna and oleg butovsky441sakeen w. kashem muzlifah haniffa and daniel h. kaplan469protective and harmful immunity to rsv infectionpeter j.m.

in addition neutrophils of wild-type mice fed no fiber exhibited elevated migratory behavior compared to wild-type mice fed normal chow 120. this establishes that metabolite- sensing gpcrs can play an important role in cell migration and that the full consequence of gpcr agonism will likely lead to numerous physiological effects such as inflammatory cytokine production gut epithelial integrity and effects on treg biology and immune cell migration--allof which at least in the case of gpr43 are anti-inflammatory.

importantly these receptors sense various metabolites and can influence numerous biological systems particularly the immune and en- docrine systems figure 2. an interesting feature of the many metabolite ligands of these gpcrs is that they are derived from foodstuffs that are considered healthy such as fish vegetables or fruit fiber and these yield metabolites such as acetate butyrate omega-3 fatty acids and tryptophan metabolites.in this review we outline the basic biology of the metabolite-sensing gpcrs and recentfindings that demonstrate how these receptors regulate immune and inflammatory processes or metabolism.

for example gpr132 also binds oxidized derivatives of lcfas linoleic acid and arachidonic acid 90. additionally functional metagenomics revealed that the bacteria- synthesized metabolite n-acyl-3-hydroxypalmitoyl-glycine commendamide is a potent agonist of gpr132 in humans 89.many gpcrs appear to bind fatty acids such as the well-characterized family of eicosanoid receptors including leukotriene gpcrs leukotriene b4 and cysteinyl leukotriene receptors that bind products of arachidonic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid metabolism derived from diet.

fluorescent reporter mice have been constructed for some of the receptors 22. gpr41-rfp red fluorescent protein mice showed exquisite expression of gpr41 in enteroen- docrine cells of the small and large intestine whereas studies in gpr43-rfp mice confirmed that gpr43 is expressed by leukocytes 22. the availability of such mice will no doubt aid in un- derstanding metabolite sensor expression and regulation in disease models.

gpr120 may play a role in tumor promotion 146. the role of metabolite-sensing gpcrs in cancer development is fertile ground for future research.metabolite-sensing receptors and type 1 diabetestwo reports strongly implicate gut microbiota and their products in the pathogenesis of t1d in nod mice.

mackay unpublished data and the expression of this receptor appears somewhat typical low and homogeneous expression on neutrophils and expression on access provided by arizona state university on 042618. for personal use only.table 1 summary of currently recognized and potential metabolite-sensing gpcrs their ligands associated g proteins and effector mechanisms and likely expressionacontinued  access provided by arizona state university on 042618. for personal use only.table 1 continued athis table is in part adapted from reference 153.abbreviations camp cyclic adenosine monophosphate dc dendritic cell ibd inflammatory bowel disease inkt invariant natural killer t cell lps lipopolysaccharide mcfa medium-chain fatty acid scfa short-chain fatty acid snp single-nucleotide polymorphism.subsets of macrophages and dendritic cells dcs.

as most of these metabolites and their gpcrs produce biological responses in cells upon agonist stimulation it is hard to believe that common metabolites such as scfas and lcfas will not also affect treg cell biology in some way particularly in the gut where these metabolites are at their highest concentrations.

the mechanisms by which diet and dietary metabolites influence immune re- sponses are varied and generally fall into three categories direct signaling to cells through surface g protein-coupled receptors gpcrs affecting gene transcription including epigenetic mecha- nisms acetylation deacetylation of histone proteins and the activity of transcription factors such as aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr figure 1. thus metabolites can induce both immediate responses in cells gpcr signaling and long-lasting epigenetic modifications.

