in humans the identification of gut microbiota mem- bers responsible for these mechanisms and their regulation by dietary supplements could have a dramatic impact on treatment outcome.starmethodsdetailed methods are provided in the online version of this paper and include the followingd d d b nematode and bacterial strains b nematode culture conditions b bacterial strain constructiond b lifespan analysisb hatching assaysb developmental assayb c. elegans bacterial-consumption assaysb c. elegans fluorescence microscopyb quantitative rt-pcrb 1-carbon metabolism analysisb vitamin b6 analysisb 100 metabolite methodb nucleotide and fluoronucleotide analysisb bacterial fluorescence quantificationb bacterial mic assaysb bioconversion assaysb host-microbe-drug screenb microbe-drug screend b generalb high-throughput screenssupplemental informationsupplemental information includes seven figures and seven tables and can be found with this article online at .author contributionsconceptualization t.a.s.

5-fu effects on tumor size and survival of the host are dependent on bacterial genotype related to supplementation with uridine and orotate 200 mm or 2 mm impairs 5-fu effects in worms fed diverse bacterial strains.role of bacterial yjjg udk upp and ndk in e. coli k-12 strains in the regulation of 5-fu effects on the host.role of bacterial yjjg udk upp and ndk in e. coli b strains in the regulation of 5-fu effects on the host.

e. coli k-12 strains bw25113 ht115 w3310 mg1665 e. coli b strains e. coli b op50 bl21g k-12b hybrid hb101.heatuv treatment of e. coli impairs 5-fu action.fluoropyrimidine effects on worms are bacterial strain specific.ee and f bacterial growth e and bacterial sensi- tivity to 5-fu f do not correlate with 5-fu effectsin worms.g pca of metabolomics data for c. elegans ande.

fluoropyrimidines impedecell division and interfere with nematode fertility and development allowing simple and robust readouts of drug activity on the host such as the minimum inhibitory concentration mic for egg hatching .first we compared 5-fu activity on worms fed five escherichia coli laboratory strains commonly used in worm studies a and observed up to 80-fold dif- ferences in 5-fu mics hb101 mic  8 mm versus bl21g mic  0.1 mm p  0.001.the differences in host drug activity were independent of the bacterial strain sero- type as 5-fu efficacy was similarly vari- able between b strains op50 versus bl21g 20-fold p  0.001 and within k-12 strains bw25113 versus ht115 8-fold p  0.001. this suggested that specific genotypic differences between the e. coli strains could be responsible for the observed variability in drug efficacy.we further explored other bacterial strains including the wild- type gut gammaproteobacteria e. coli b and k-12 strains w3110 and mg1655 enterobacter cloacae lmg2783 and the soil betaproteobacterium comamonas aquatica da1877  b. again large variations of 5-fu efficacy in worms were observed with a 40-fold difference in egg hatching mic between worms fed c. aquatica 0.1 mm and e. coli b 4 mm p  0.001.interventions modifying bacterial metabolic activity can influ- ence the effect of host-targeted drugs in c. elegans  .

published by elsevier inc.this is an open access article under the cc by license .figure 1. bacterial activity modulates fluo- ropyrimidine efficacy in c. elegansa and b worms cultured on laboratory a and wt b bacterial strains show disparate responses to 5-fu.

p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001. see also figure s1 and table s1.fgmetabolic genetic and nutritional contributions to fluoropyrimi- dine activity on the host revealing two distinct mechanisms by which bacteria modulate the efficacy of this class of anti-cancer drugs in vivo 1 drug activation by bacterial ribonucleotide metabolism and 2 influence of bacterial deoxynucleotide pools on the host response.

to test whether there was a link between bacterial growth phenotype and modulation of drug efficacy in c. elegans we quantified bacterial growth in the absence e and presence f s1f and s1g of 5-fu and found no link with drug efficacy inc. elegans.

therefore bacterial modulation of 5-fu efficacy in c. elegans occurs by means other than bacterial regulation of nematode gene expression.

these data imply distinct sensitivities to 5-fu action between host and microbe and support a regulatory effect of bacteria on drug efficacy in the host that is independent of altered bacte- rial metabolism caused by drug treatment.overall we found that bacteria are key determinants of fluoro- pyrimidine efficacy on host metabolism and embryonic survival.host-microbe-drug screens reveal bacterial regulators of fluoropyrimidine actionwe hypothesized that the bacterial uracil phosphoribosyltrans- ferase upp mutant dupp a gene previously used for cancer therapy  and capable of metabolizing 5-fu in vitro could influence the response of the host to treat- ment.

dupp growth interactions with 5-fu e. alto- gether bacterial growth or 5-fu effects on e. coli growth are not key determinants or predictors of 5-fu effects on host physiology.to determine which bacterial processes contribute to the ef- fects of 5-fu on host physiology we performed enrichment analysis of kegg and ecocyc pathways on the genes with strong 5-fu effects on c. elegans development mic 5 mm f see for details.

out of the significantly enriched pathways 3 pyridoxal-5-phosphate plp choris- mate and folate biosynthesis were involved in the production of 510-methylene tetrahydrofolate ch2-thf a cofactor for ts thyats g the canonical target of 5-fu adbcefigure 2. chemical-genomic bacterial-host screens identify pathways for 5-fu action not revealed by bacterial-drug screens5-fu inhibits worm development on control bw25113 but not mutant e. coli dupp.diagram of the three-way host-microbe-drug interaction screen.screen design and venn diagram of biologically relevant hits.3d graph correlating effects of gene knockout on bacterial growth x axis effects of 5-fu on bacterial growth y axis and effects of knockout on worm growth inhibition by 5-fu colored circles.

therefore we testeda glycineserine metabolism bwbfigure 4. vitamin b6 acts in concert with1.0gcvpgcvtgcvh1.0bwpdxjgcvpglycine and folate metabolism to mediate5-fu effectsa disruption of bacterial glycine and serine0.50.00 0.01gcvagcvrglya0.05 0.1 0.25 0.5 1 2 45-fu mm0.50.00 0.01gcvppdxj0.05 0.1 0.25 0.5 1 2 45-fu mmmetabolism impairs 5-fu action.b6 effects are mediated by the glycine cleavage system.c and d disruption of bacterial folate metabolismimpairs 5-fu action in worms and alters folatec1.00.50.0folate metabolismbwmetfmetemethmetemethfolmpurufaud100806040200homeostasis d. dhf dihydrofolate thf tetra- hydrofolate ch-thf 510-methenyl-thf ch2- thf 510-methylene-thf ch3-thf 5-methyl- thf cho-thf 10-formyl-thf.

inhibi- tion of ribonucleotide metabolism through knockout of udp and or udk had no role alone dudpdudk  0.25 mm p  0.916 but acted synergistically with dupp to inhibit bacterial contribution of 5-fu effects on the host dupp  2 mm dudpdupp  32 mm dudkdupp  32 mm e. as expected knockout of the pyrimidine nucleotidase yjjg improved drug efficacy dyjjg 0.1 mm p  0.014. we further investigated the link between py- rimidine supplementation bacteria and 5-fu effects on the host by feeding worms bacterial mutants of pyrimidine metabolism d. supplementation of uridine figure s5b and orotate figure s5c dramatically reduced 5-fu efficacy by 160- and 16-fold respectively an effect mediated by the ribonucleotide salvage pathway genes uppudkudp and the de novo pyrimidine pathway gene pyre but not pyrd respectively figures s5b and s5c.

dashed arrows more than one reaction.opposite effects of salvage deoxyribonucleotide dtdk and ribonucleotide duppdudkdudp metabolism in 5-fu efficacy.bacterial de novo pyrimidine metabolism regulates the effects of 5-fo.g and h b6 deficiency g and pl supplementation h regulate 5-fu effects through bacterial ribonucleotide metabolism.bacterial conversion of 5-fu alters fluoropyrimidine profiles and availability in c. elegans.knockout of host umps-1 mediates drug effects on worm development only in the absence of bacterial conversion of 5-fo.

to probe the involvement of the dna damage mismatch repair mmr pathway in the activation of autophagy  we tested the mmr-deficient mutantfigure 6. bacteria regulate 5-fu effects in c. elegans by two distinct mechanismsbacterial ndk effects on the efficacy of 5-fu are independent of 5-fo bioconversion mediated by pyre.ic50 values for bacterial growth with 5-fu.c and d lc-msms quantification of fluoropyrimidines in e. coli c and c. elegans d supplemented with 50 mm 5-fu.volcano plot of nucleotide metabolism of bacterial mutants.diagram of deoxynucleotide metabolism in e. coli.

