the 16s gene libraries were prepared from fecal samples ob- tained from cattle fed the con n  4 eml n  4 and smfp n  4 diets.table 3 effect of eml and smfp on changes in the genus composition as a percentage of the total number of sequences in the fecal bacterial communitygenusexperimental diet1sem2p value1con control n  4 eml ensiled mulberry leaves n  4 smfp sun-dried mulberry fruit pomace n  42sem standard error of the meandifferent letters in the same row indicate a significant difference between values within the row p  0.05to assess the potential effect of eml and smfp diets on fecal bacterial communities sequencing datasets from individual groups of steers were examined table both diets had no influence on the proportion of firmicutes which is a major gram-positive phylum in the fecal samples p  0.28. similarly the proportion of the major gram-negative phylum bacteroidetes was also unchanged by the eml and smfp diets p  0.63. there were no statistically significant differences in the less abundant bacterial phyla among the three groups p  0.10 table to evaluate the effects of the emland smfp diets on the fecal bacterial community composition genera with an abundance of 0.3 were selected.

absolute abundance ofacon control n  4 eml ensiled mulberry leaves n  4 smfp sun-dried mulberry fruit pomace n  4bsem standard error of the meantable 2 effect of eml and smfp diet on changes in phyla as a percentage of the total number of sequences in the fecal bacterial communityphylumexperimental dietasembp valueacon control n  4 eml ensiled mulberry leaves n  4 smfp sun-dried mulberry fruit pomace n  4bsem standard error of the meandifferent letters in the same row indicate a significant difference between values within the row p  0.05samples in the different treatments.

compared with the con group the populations of ruminococcus albus p  0.0015 and streptococcus bovis p  0.0086 weretable 4 fecal bacterial abundance in finishing steers fed a total mixed ration supplemented with eml and smfpbacteriaexperimental diet1sem2 p value1con control n  4 eml ensiled mulberry leaves n  4 smfp sun-dried mulberry fruit pomace n  42sem standard error of the meanpopulation sizes are expressed as percentages of the 16s rrna gene copy number of the total bacteriadifferent letters in the same row indicate a significant difference between values within the row p  0.05found to be significantly increased in the eml and smfp groups while the selenomonas ruminantium p  0.0591 succinivibrio dextrinosolvens p  0.0652 and butyrivibrio fibrisolvens p  0.0702 populations were increased in these two groups although the differ- ence in this case was not statistically significant.

based on the increasing ten- dency of butyrivibrio dextrinosolvens in the eml and smfp groups relative to the control group we proposed that eml and smfp supplementation could promote the utilization of protein resources by gut microorganisms.conclusionin this study we compared the community composition of fecal microbiota in cattle fed a standard tmr and in those fed with modified tmr diets in which corn grain and cotton seed meal were partially replaced by eml or smfp.

the creative commons public domain dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.contains 19.8 crude protein cp 15.6 water soluble carbohydrates wsc and 51.5 neutral detergent fiber ndf and sun-dried mulberry fruit pomace smfp contains 21.8 cp 20.8 wsc and 49.1 ndf furthermore both eml and smfp can be used in fin- ishing steers diets without impairing their productive performance and carcass characteristics however little is known about how eml and smfp could influence the fecal microbial community structure.

the control group con received standard tmr the eml received a standard diet containing eml and the sun-dried mulberry fruit pomace group smfp received a standard diet containing smfp additional file  table s1.

in this report the popula- tion of r. albus was significantly increased in the eml group p  0.0015 but the other cellulolytic bacteria were not influenced by the eml and smfp diets.

our result showed that the abundance of p. bryantii and p. ruminicola had an increasing tendency in the eml group and both the eml and smfp diets increased the abundance of r. amylophilus.

the results of this study demonstrate that addition of eml and smfp to the tmr only slightly influence the fecal microbial community structure in finishing steers.additional fileabbreviationsace abundance-based coverage estimator con control cp crude protein eml ensiled mulberry leaves ndf neutral detergent fiber outs operational taxonomic units pcoa principal coordinate analysis pcr polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr real time - polymerase chain reaction sem standard error of mean smfp sun-dried mulberry fruit pomace tmr total mixed ration wsc water soluble carbohydratesacknowledgmentswe thank xiaodong li and jinwei zhao for their technical assistance.

our hy- pothesis is that eml and smfp can be used in the diets for finishing steers without affecting the fecal bacterial community composition and harmless to animal health and food safety.

to validate this assumption we used se- quencing analysis to examine the effects of eml and smfp on the fecal bacterial communities in cattle fed these byproducts.methodsanimals and dietsthe animals in this study were handled in strict accordance with the regulations for laboratory animals of beijing.

experiments were performed in accordance with the regulations for the administration of affairs concerning experimental animals the state science and technology commission of p. r. china 1988.this study was part of a larger experimental trial investigating the effects of eml and smfp on growth performance ruminal fermentation blood biochemical parameters and carcass characteristics of finishing steers - the experiment was done in the ex- perimental base of china agricultural university.

to investigate the effects of eml and smfp on the fecal bacterial community 4 steers were selected randomly in every treatment and totally 12 steers were selected.fecal samplingat the end of the experiment 30-50 g fecal samples were obtained aseptically from cattle rectums with a new palpation sleeve used for each sample.

the average otus for the con eml and smfp group were 7498 6933 and 6503 per sample respectively.

figure illustrates the community composition of individualtable 1 dietary treatments for unique otus richness estimates and diversity indices within the fecal contentitemtreatmentasembp value conemlsmfpseqsnum166882.30 184494.30 178779.30 19052.18 0.8one-way analysis of variance anova using sas 9.0genus was determined to assess the effects of eml and smfp supplementation.

