effectiveness of a full-scale horizontal slow sand filter for controlling phytopathogens in recirculating hydroponics from microbial isolation to full microbiome assessmentfrancesc x. prenafeta-boldu  isabel trillas  marc vinas  miriam guivernau  rafaela caceres  oriol marfa a giro joint research unit irta-upc institute of research and technology food and agriculture irta torre marimon center e-08140 caldes de montbui barcelona catalonia spainb seccio biologia vegetal facultat de biologia universitat de barcelona diagonal 645 e-08028 barcelona catalonia spainh i g h l i g h t sa novel hssf allowed closing the loop of water and nutrients in a full-scale nursery.fungi and bacteria from the crop spentnutrient solution were efficiently re- moved.the hssf coped with a dense inoculum ofthe phytopathogen fusarium oxysporum.microbiome depiction highlighted the complex mechanisms involved in the hssf process.the hssf is an efficient robust and sus-tainable tool for recirculating hydro- ponics.a r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 3 november 2016received in revised form 3 april 2017accepted 28 april 2017available online 09 may 2017keywordscircular economy closed-loop horticulturedisinfestation and disinfection fusarium wiltsoilless culturewaterborne plant pathogensg r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta b s t r a c t the microbial disinfestation efficiency of an innovative horizontal-flow slow sand filter hssf for treating nutri- ent solution spent from an experimental closed-loop nursery was evaluated by means of a combination of cul- ture-dependent and independent molecular techniques.

all culturable microbial groups were also isolated from the sand bed in numbers that were generally higher than those previously reported in the nutrient solution pointing to the fact that a microbial biofilm was active in the sand bed.microbial counts were also performed in relation to naturally occur- ring fusarium spp.

interestingly the highest increment in fungal colony counts were reported in the sand bed with values that reached 5 x 104 to 5 x 105 cfu g-1 on day 4 a. by the end of the experiment two months after inoculation the numbers of viable fusarium cells present in the sand ranged from 2.6 x 103 to 6.1 x 103 cfu g-1.

3. scanning electron microscopy on a sand samples from the hssf bed taken at the end of the experiments a in relation to the clean sand used in its construction b. the presence of fusarium-like conidia has been highlighted.highlighted and might be of importance in the near future for the devel- opment of biosensors.the average removal efficiency values of the hssf from day 4 to 60 derived from a and b yielded very similar results regardless of the used data set 99.5 - 0.6 n  9 on the basis of colony-forming units on a selective fusarium media versus 99.9 - 0.2 n  8 for the molecular qpcr quantification of fungal its rrna.

this unspecific contribution of the schmutzdecke would account for the observed attachment of f. oxysporum spores to the sand grains  and ultimately to the greater efficiency of slow sand filters under prolonged operation such as that used in the present study.

these nitrogen- fixing bacteria were relatively abundant in the sand bed 1.2-2.3 the nutrient solution 2.5 and in the resulting leachate 2.0 and might therefore contribute to the buildup of nitrogen observed in the hssf drainage .concerning the fungi and in agreement with the previous quantita- tive results a fusarium oxysporum was still one of the predomi- nant species in the sand bed 32 days after its inoculation b. in terms of relative abundance of otus it ranged from 27 in sample c to 69 in sample b. other observed dominant fungi included represen- tatives of different basidiomycetous and ascomycetous genera that are mainly saprotrophic and cosmopolitan occurring in soil but some have also been associated to commercially important crop diseases acremonium atrogriseum cladosporium cladosporioides cryptococcus heimaeyensis and species of stachybotrys ceratobasidium cercophora ilyonectria pyrenochaeta and zopfiella .interestingly the microbial community structure in the hssf drain- age was the most differentiated of all studied samples.

in the hssf sand bed and drainage  were also substantiated in terms of relative abundance of ribotype sequences by the end of the experiments a. a significant number of ribotypes matching the trichoderma viride complex up to 0.96 in relative abundance was found in the sand bed sample b which contrasted to the b 0.20 in the remaining samples supplementary material.

indigenous and in- troduced populations of eubacteria and fungi were assessed in the nutrient solution the hssf influenteffluent and a sand bed transect by isolation on selective media as well as by quantitative qpcr and next-generation se- quencing ngs on target ribosomal genes.

on the other hand fu- sarium cells accumulated in the sand bed indicating that physical entrapment was the main removal mechanism.

the viability of retained fusarium cells tended to decrease in time so that treatment efficiency might be enhanced by antagonistic species from the genera bacillus pseudomonas and trichoderma also identified in the sand bed.

furthermore microbial populations from the hssf effluent were different from those observed in the sand bed and the influent.

such technologies can generally be classified into chemical pro- cesses usually based on the addition of strong oxidizers and biocides physical processes membrane filtration processes ultraviolet radia- tion and heat treatment and biological alternatives slow sand filtra- tion and constructed wetlands.

biological systems instead entail a significant reduction of installation and maintenance costs as well lower environmental impact in terms of the emission of polluting chemicals and consumption of energy.vertical-flow slow sand filters vssf have already been used exten-sively in water purification installations particularly in developing countries because of their low energy requirements and robust perfor- mance .

the typical vssf configuration consists of a vertical tank either encased in the soil or in an external container filled with several layers of sand and gravel with different particle sizes.

wastewater is then spilled at the top of the vssf and percolates saturat- ing the sand bed.

