interest- ingly inflammation constitutes a major stimulus for regeneration table 1. conversely in a large observational multicenter trial on ash patients who will improve and survive have a higher rate of inflammatory infiltrates on liver biopsy compared to patients with a poorer outcome 39. in the same setting in another study on ah patients with higher macrophage activation on baseline liver biopsy are also those who will improve 30. serine protease inhibitor kazal type i spink1 an acute-phase reactant protein produced by the liver increased in ah compared to alcoholic cirrhosis without ah is also the most significantly acute-phase protein upreg- ulated in improvers compared to nonimprovers in ah 30. collectively those data suggest that inflammation and macrophage activation has to be considered as a good prog- nostic factor in the severe condition of ash and that spink1 as other inflammatory agents may constitute possible strate- gies to stimulate liver regeneration in ah 34. this is in contrast to early stages of ald 40 or nafld 41 in which injury is mild and hepatocyte regeneration impairment is low or absent and in which inflammation plays an detrimental function.granulocyte colony-stimulating factor andor stem cell transplantationpluripotent stem cells originating from the bone marrow may participate in the regeneration of the liver 32. in the context of a damaged liver due to ah stimulation of bone marrow cells by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor gcsf and transplantation of isolated bone marrow stem cells into the liver via the hepatic artery did not improve liver function as assessed by meld score evolution after 3 months or mortality in a randomized controlled trial 42 and is only mildly associated with some inflammatory or regenerative cytokines upregulation 43. other studies with a limited number of patients or suffering from a lack of a control group 32 describe inconstant improvement of liver function with such treatment.

reviewtreatment of severe alcoholic hepatitis past present and futurenicolas lanthier and peter staeurrkelservice d'hepato-gastroenterologie cliniques universitaires saint-luc laboratory of hepatogastroenterology institut de recherche experimentale et clinique universite catholique de louvain brussels belgiumacute alcoholic hepatitis alcoholic hepatitis and alcoholic steatohepatitis what does it mean and what isare the recommended available treatmentsalcoholic hepatitis ah ranges from mild to severe injury and usually presents on the background of chronic liver disease.

the modulation of the gut fungal populations could represent new targets in future studies 56.metabolic syndromepatients with overweight drinking a substantial amount of alcohol for at least 10 years have a higher risk to develop cir- rhosis and ah than lean patients 57. the proinflammatory status and the insulin-resistant state which are the hallmarks of obesity and metabolic syndrome aggravate alcohol-induced liver damage 58. while nutritional support is important in thecontext of decompensated ald and in particular in ah taking care of superimposed metabolic steatosis by nutritional coun- selling or maybe drugs dedicated to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease would be of interest in obese patients with a previous episode of ah table 1. indeed metabolic steatosis due to overweight appears to potentiate the occurrence of ah in actively drinking patients but could also be deleterious for long-term outcomes in patients with a past episode of ah.strategies for alcohol abstinenceduring long-term follow-up 4 years alcohol abstinence has been identified as the only independent predictor of long-term survival in patients who were hospitalized for severe ah.

one large trial showing no impact of corticosteroid therapy vs. placebo in patients with severe and nonsevere ah 24 and one trial demonstrating a significant benefit of pentoxifylline in severe ah 22 investi- gators in the united kingdom conducted last year a very large trial in severe ah patients more than a thousand patients randomized within four arms placebocorticosteroidpentox- ifyllinecorticosteroid  pentoxifylline 25. this study did not find any difference between the four arms in long-term 3- month and 1-year survival approximately 54. a significant although modest survival amelioration after 28 days in the steroid group 86 vs. 83 was present while mortality in other groups remained equal at this time point.

dys- function of bone marrow stem cells in severe cirrhosis 45 and difficulties of engraftment of transplanted cells in an injuredorgan in the context of ash represent two possibilities that might explain the lack of impact of this stem cell transplan- tation strategy.in addition to its direct effect on the bone marrow gcsf is able to induce lpc proliferation 46 a condition associated with a better outcome 30. repeated injections of gcsf in severe ah induced a better survival compared to placebo in a pilot trial 47. four larger trials are currently investigating the effect of gcsf in patients with ah nct02776059 in combi- nation with nac nct02971306 or specifically in severe ash or ah patients with null or partial response to corticosteroids nct01820208 and nct02442180 table 1.blockade of apoptosis and oxidative stress hepatocyte cell death and subsequent loss of liver parenchyma constitute a major feature of ash-inducing loss of liver func- tion and death.

however a controversy exists on this topic while easl guidelines rec- ommend to perform a liver biopsy in all severe ah patientsbefore specific therapy initiation 1 the national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism-funded alcoholic hepatitis consortia suggests a liver biopsy confirmation of ash only for patients with clinical ah presenting a possible confounding factor and classified as possible ah 4. finally evaluation of the response to corticosteroid treatment is recommended 1 to avoid useless exposure in poor responders.

they can further differentiate towards hepatocytes or cholangiocytes 32. high rate of lpc invasion constitute a sign of severe hepatic injury 32. however in ah patients with a favourable outcome show a higher rate of proliferating lpc compared to patients with a poorer outcome while the total number of lpc remains the same between both groups 30. by contrast patients with nonresponse to corticosteroids are characterized by massive cholangiocyte differentiation of those cells 33.collectively these data suggest that proliferating lpc and further transformation of those cells towards hepatocytes are beneficial in ah and that strategies stimulating their prolifer- ation and 'good' transformation could be helpful table 1 34. experimental data show that signals from adjacent activated macrophages may play a possible beneficial impact in this setting 303536.the production of interleukin-22 il-22 a cytokine able to induce liver regeneration signalling via receptors especially on hepatocytes by t-helper lymphocytes is increased in ah patients mostly in those who will improve their liver function 37. il-22 acts also on lpc promoting their proliferation 38. one large trial is currently under way to confirm the site of production and the effects of il-22 in patients with ash nct01918462 while another one treat008 is alreadytesting the impact of recombinant human il-22 f-652 in patients with ah nct02655510 table 1.inflammationwhile it seems intuitive to target inflammation in ash and to imagine that the beneficial corticosteroid effect could be related to the anti-inflammatory activity of the treatment one has to keep in mind that specific anti-tnf agents induce high mortality 2021 and that the mechanism of action of corti- costeroids in this pathology is not yet understood.

one larger trial is currently investigating this strategy of early salvage liver transplantation in those selected patients nct01756794 table 1. data on recurrence of alcohol consumption in those patients as well as criteria for patients' selection and previsions on the impact on mortality of patients with other liver diseases on the waiting list will feed the debate on this option if such approach is accepted.modulation of gut microbiotadysbiosis bacterial overgrowth altered gut barrier and increased subsequent translocation of gut microbes andor bacteria fragments play a role in the development of ald and ah in an animal alcohol feeding model 53. a specific dysbiosis is present in severe ah patients compared to ald patients and the causative role of this modified microbiome on intestinal permeability and liver disease severity has been demonstrated by human faecal transplantation to mice fed alcohol 54. modulation of the gut flora through either pro- biotics nct02335632 for ald either a specific gut-targeted antibiotic rifaximin nct02485106 or faecal transplantation nct02458079 for severe ah is currently under investiga- tion table 1. modulation of gut microbiota in alcohol-fed mice is also possible by providing saturated long-chain fatty acids lcfa.

for this reason and to avoid prescribing corticos- teroids in patients who do not have histological ash it is recommended to confirm ash diagnosis in patients withrecent jaundice and liver function deterioration in an alcohol-drinking patienthistological coexistence of steatosis hepatocellular ballooning and neutrophil infiltration satellitosismaddrey discriminant function  32not severe ashmaddrey discriminant function  32severe ashalcohol withdrawalalcohol withdrawaln-acetyl-cysteine 5 days management of infections nutritional support prednisone 40 mgdaylong-term alcohol abstinencegood responsecontinue prednisone for 28 daysnull or poor response stop prednisoneevaluation of response to prednisolone by the lille model at day 7 or day 4figure 1 definitions of alcoholic hepatitis alcoholic steatohepatitis and treatment algorithm.clinically suspected ah by a liver biopsy.

it is associated with increased mortality and complications in cirrhotic hospitalized patients13 and ah patients 14. the european society for clinical nutrition and metabolism recommends a high-calorie supple- mentation 35-40 kcalkgday with 50-65 carbohydrates and 35-50 lipids together with a high protein intake 1-5 g kgday 1415. indeed one randomized controlled trial did not evidence any major difference in mortality rates in patients with ash receiving for 28 days either enteral nutritiontable 1 therapeutic perspectives in severe alcoholic steato- hepatitistable 1 continuedreduction inprophylactic antibioticsnct02281929organ replacementliver transplantation52nct01756794infections in steroid treated patientsprophylactic antifungal treatment12reduction in long- term mortalitylong-term alcohol abstinence59stimulation of liver regenerationgranulocyte colony- stimulating factornct02776059nct02971306 nct01820208 nct02442180providing 2000 kcalday or corticosteroids 16. howeverwhile it appears logical to avoid catabolism to maintain a positive nitric balance and to prevent further complications associated with malnutrition the benefice of such approach has not been proven in dedicated randomized controlled trials in ah.

indeed the clinical syndrome of ah may be due not only to ash but also to decompensated chronic alcoholic cirrhosis without ash to superimposed toxic hepatitis in alcoholic patients drug- induced liver injury to portal vein thrombosis or biliary stone migration to massive microvesicular steatosis or to infection fig.

recent european association for the study of the liver easl guidelines on alcoholic liver disease ald identify ah as a clinical syndrome referring to recent jaundice and liver function deterioration in an actively drinking patient 1. predominant histological lesions that characterize ah include the coexistence of steatosis hepatocyte ballooning and inflammatory infiltrate mainly neutrophils called satellitosis which has been assembled under the nam- ing of 'alcoholic steatohepatitis' ash fig.

as evidenced in other studies 29 no reduction in hepatorenal syndrome was reported in this treatment group in contrast with previous data 22.what are the other potential future optionsregenerationcompared to control or abstinent alcoholic cirrhosis patients patients with ah show an increased hepatocyte proliferation to try to repopulate the injured liver 30. among ah patients those who will improve have a higher rate of pro- liferating hepatocytes compared to those with a poor prog- nosis.

1. while nonsevere ah identified by a maddrey score below 32 points usually responds to alcohol withdrawal severe ah maddrey scoring 32 points or hepatic encephalopathy may lead to liver function deterioration despite alcohol abstinence.

intravenous albumin is also indicated in spontaneous bacterial peritonitis as it has been shown to reduce mortality 111. the benefice of a preventive antibiotic therapy with amoxicillin  clavulanic acid is currently investigated in severe ash patients treated by corticosteroids nct02281929 table 1. invasive aspergillosis is also a fre- quent and high-risk complication of severe ah particularly when treated by corticosteroids.

