analysis of the microbiota of refrigerated chopped parsley after treatments with a coating containing enterocin as-48 or by high-hydrostatic pressuremaria jose grande burgos maria del carmen lopez aguayo ruben perez pulidoantonio galvez rosario lucasarea de microbiologia departamento de ciencias de la salud facultad de ciencias experimentales universidad de jaen 23071 jaen spaina r t i c l e i n f o keywords parsley coating bacteriocinhigh-hydrostatic pressure biodiversitya b s t r a c t parsley can be implicated in foodborne illness yet chopped parsley is used as an ingredient or garnish for multiple dishes.

since there are no previous studies on the microbiota of chopped parsley or how it can be affected by application of food preservation practices hts was applied to study the bacterial diversity of chopped parsley before and after application of the preservation treatments.methodssample preparation treatments and microbiological analysisparsley petroselinum crispum 1 kg was bought at a local super- market and cut into 2-3 cm long pieces with sterile scissors on a sterile beaker under aseptic conditions.

the changes in relative abun- dance of bacterial groups and the succession of bacterial communities during storage of parsley could be explained in terms of ammensalism and nutrient availability.

another study on the microbiological quality of fresh produce revealed that total coliforms increased during the packing process in the case of cilantro and parsley  .fresh chopped parsley may have a profitable market in different food sectors such as hotels restaurants and catering services as a ready-to use ingredient for food preparation.

the aim of the present study was to determine the effect of two different treatments on the bacterial diversity of parsley i coating with a pectin-edta solution containing the circular bacteriocin enterocin as-48 and ii treatment by high hydrostatic pressure hhp at 600 mpa for 8 min.

the bacterial diversity of the chopped parsley was studied by high throughput sequencing illumina miseq.

results of the present study indicate that the two treatments had different effects on the bacterial diversity of parsley.

however cutting and manipulation may shorten the shelf life of parsley considerably and at the same time release nutrients that may enhance bacterial growth.

the aim of the present study was to determine the effect of two preservation methods on bacterial diversity of chopped parsley stored under refrigeration.

however the impact of the combined treatment on the different members of the bacterial community in the treated parsley could be influenced by many different factors including the degree of sensitivity to the bacteriocin-edta combination the capacity of the different bacteria to grow inside the plant tissue where diffusion of the bacteriocin would be expected to be very limited compared to the plant surface or the inactivation of bacteriocin molecules by microbial and or tissue proteases among other factors.

further studies based on challenge tests needed to be carried out in order to determine the influence of treatments based on activated coatings on survival and proliferation of acinetobacter on parsley and other vegetable foods.during late storage days 5 and 10 the bacterial composition of samples treated with the pectin-bacteriocin-edta coating resembled that of untreated controls at early storage times day 0 and day 3. these results would suggest recovery of the initial microbiota after a transient period of inhibition by the activated coating.

however hhp treatment had a different effect on the bacterial populations in the parsley compared to the activated coating.

while pseudomonas had the greatest reduction in relative abundance after application of the hhp treatment other bacterial groups typically associated with plants or soil such as sphingomonas rahnella or dyella seemed to prevail suggesting that they were less sensitive to the hhp treatment applied on parsley.

data from late storage suggest that enterobacteria were one of the main bacterial groups increasing in relative abundance in the hhp-treated samples when the population of pseudomonas decreased.there are no previous studies on application of hhp treatments forpreservation of parsley.

control and treated parsley were stored in trays at 5 degc for 10 days.

