theseanti-crispr proteins could be interfering with specific proteins of the crispr systems in these strains that although they belong to the same types type i and type iii are highly diverse  within these strains and carry different cas gene cassettes.supplementary materials the following are available online at  figure s1 electron micrographs of sirvs figure s2 maximum likelihood phylogenies of individual sirv core genes that support biogeographic distribution figure s3 maximum likelihood phylogenies of individual sirv core genes with incongruent topologies figure s4 organization of variable gene clusters on yellowstone sirvs figure s5 maximum likelihood phylogenies of individual sirv variable genes with 5 or more representatives figure s6 maximum likelihood phylogenies of genes implicated in sirv resistance in s. solfataricus table s1 environmental sample collection table s2 host strain panel for virus purification table s3 length coverage gc content and spacer match coverage of sirvs table s4 sirv core gene clusters table s5 estimates of synonymous vs. non-synonymous substitutions and evolutionary divergence between sequences of each of the 30 sirv core clusters table s6 sirv variable gene clusters table s7 crispr spacer matches of s. islandicus strains against sirvs with and without a protospacer associated motif pam table s8 estimates of synonymous vs. non-synonymous substitutions and evolutionary divergence between s. islandicus sequences of two loci implicated in sirv resistance in s. solfataricus table s9 estimates of synonymous vs. non-synonymous substitutions between sequences sirv variable clusters with 5 or more representatives.acknowledgments this work was supported by nsf deb 0816885 and nsf dimensions of diversity deb 1342876 and nasa nnx09am92g.

the codon positions included were 1st2nd3rdnoncoding and all positions containing gaps and missing data were eliminated.phylogenetic analyses of s. islandicus strainstwelve mlsa multilocus sequence analysis loci moba nitra isol pacyl feper ocycl bglu heli nutrs peprot sebin and adehy previously selected from s. islandicus core genes to be evenly distributed around the genome and maximize the number of single nucleotide polymorphism snps in the mutnovsky population  were extracted from published s. islandicus genomes  and the draft genome assembly of s. islandicus y.08.82.36 .

furthermore in the past few decades a great effort has been made to study and characterize the viruses that infect the crenarchaeal species that inhabit these typesviruses 2017 9 120 doiof hot springs for review see  uncovering novel genes  unusual and exceptional virion morphotypes  and unique virion egress mechanisms .sirvs sulfolobus islandicus rod-shaped viruses were among the first viruses to challenge the notion that most crenarchaeal viruses exist only in a non-lytic carrier state  making them an excellent target to study how lytic viruses shape natural microbial communities.

moreover our studies reveal that sirv core genes do not appear to be under diversifying selection and thus we predict that the abundant and diverse variable genes govern the coevolutionary arms race between sirvs and their hosts.keywords host-virus interactions sulfolobus islandicus rod-shaped virus archaeal virusintroductionthe discovery of diverse and novel viruses that infect bacteria - and archaea - has revived interest in the viruses of microbes.

islandicus isolates  excluding those already in our previous database to find that only 3.2 of the spacers matched any sirv with more than 50 id of the entire spacer consistent with the fact that sirvs were not recovered from kamchatka.figure 5. crispr spacer matches of spacers from s. islandicus strains from different geographical locations to sirvs from yellowstone and iceland.

smallest circle represents one match largest circle represents 48 matches.although on average 41.3 -1.3 of core 36.7 -1.9 of variable and 58.9 -2.4 of non-coding sirv base pairs are matched the distribution of spacers with significant matches 50 of the entire spacer show that more spacers from our database match core genes 66.7 - 2.0 than they do variable genes 12.0 - 6.5 or non-coding regions 21.3 - 6.4.host range of sirvslawns of s. islandicus strains from different geographic locations were spotted with 10 ul of the eight isolated sirvs at three different concentrations high 1 x 107 pfuml medium 1 x 106 pfuml and low 1 x 104 pfuml and were monitored for the appearance of clearing zones for five days.figure shows the differences among host populations isolated from different locations.

the core genome phylogeny as well as the distribution of variable genes shared by some but not all sirvs and the signatures of host-virus interactions recorded on the crispr clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats repeat-spacer arrays of s. islandicus hosts identify different sirv lineages each associated with a different geographic location.

these variable genes have been shown to be acquired through recombination with other viruses but also from their hosts  and might be carrying diverse genetic functions that allow the viruses to overcome their hosts' defenses.our results show that sulfolobus islandicus rod-shaped viruses have a biogeographic distribution at a global and local scale within yellowstone national park.

figure shows that spacers match with a higher percent identity to localas compared to foreign viruses supporting that s. islandicus hosts have interacted with viruses that are more closely related to local virus populations.

each gene was translation-aligned using muscle  and manually curated and maximum likelihood phylogenies were then constructed as described above.analysis of crispr spacer matchesa total of 4370 crispr spacers from all published s. islandicus genomes and contigs from unpublished draft genomes from three yellowstone national park s. islandicus strains y08.82.36 nl13.c01.02 nl01.b.c01.24 were extracted using crisprfinder  and oriented based on the repeat sequence flanking the spacer.

blue dots represent gene found in more than one copy.host-virus interactions recorded in the s. islandicus crispr repeat spacer arraysto further test sirv biogeographic patterns we looked at the signatures of host-virus interactions recorded in the crispr-cas adaptive immune system which is present in all sulfolobus islandicus strains sequenced to date and has been demonstrated to confer immunity against natural viral infection in this species .

to further evaluate this observation sirvs from more distant locations need to be sampled.on a global scale the biogeographic pattern observed by the core genes and the distribution of variable genes is supported by the signatures of host-virus interactions recorded in the crispr spacers of s. islandicus strains.

the ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous variation pnps within the 30 sirv core clusters table s5 shows that all 30 clusters are under relaxed purifying selection pnps  1 .the majority of core genes including all structural proteins the major capsid protein glycosyltransferases and methyltranferases are clustered towards the central region of the genome and are syntenous in all 10 sirvs figure .

we have designated these new viruses sirv11 through sirv10.bfigure 1. electron micrographs of sulfolobus islandicus rod-shaped viruses sirv5 a and sirv8stained with 2 uranyl acetate.

this biogeographic pattern is consistent with what has been observed in s. islandicus populations around the world  and sulfolobus-spindle- shaped viruses .

