over all these results suggest that both live and epss of l. gasseri strains are capable of inhibiting the proliferation of hela with the impact of eps being strain specific.impact of eps of lactobacillus gasseri strains on apoptosis in hela cells and genes involved in apoptotic pathwayapoptosis is a programmed cell death process that regulates growth and development of multicellular organisms.

bacterial eps have been shown to be involved in adhesion to host epithelial cells  hence we investigated the ability of eps producing l. gasseri strains to adhere to hela cell line.

hence the diversity in sugar composition of l-eps extracted from g10 and h15 is one possible explanation for the observed adhesion capability of the strains.anti-proliferative impact of l. gasseri strains and their eps on hela cellsvarious health benefits have been ascribed to l. gasseri strains such as antitumor effect.

to obtain more informa- tion on contribution of eps on proliferative effect of l. gasseri strains we treated hela cells with different concentration of l-epss since it is known that anti-proliferative effect of eps is concentra- tion dependent .

these results suggest that l-epss of l. gasseri strains inhibit pro- liferation and induce apoptosis in hela cells in a strain dependent manner and use different mechanism of action to inhibit the cell proliferation in hela cells.

addi- tionally we showed that l-epss of l. gasseri strains induce apoptosis in hela cells in a strain dependent manner and use different mechanism of action to inhibit the cell proliferation in hela cells.

in this study we examined the eps pro- duction by l. gasseri strains and investigated the impact of these epss on proliferation of hela cells and immunomodulation.

cyclophilin a ppia was used as an internal control toimpact of live and eps of l. gasseri strains on hela cell prolif- eration was evaluated using a wst-1 cell proliferation assay kit cayman chemical company ann arbor michigan usa as described by hong et al.

hela cells seeded at a density of 1 x 105 cellswell were treated with live l. gasseri strains and the anti-cytotoxicity effect of the l. gasseri strains was evaluated by comparing the viability of the treated samples with the untreated control n5 for each bar.

hela cells seeded at a density of 1 x 105 cellswell were treated with increasing concentrations of l-epss 100 200 or 400 mgml of l. gasseri strains and the anti-cytotoxicity effect of the epss produced by l. gasseri strains was evaluated by comparing the viability of the treated samples with the untreated control n5 for each bar.

the freeze-dried eps l-eps powder was stored at th4 oc.carbohydrate composition of l-epscarbohydrate composition of eps isolated from l. gasseri strains was quantified by high pressure liquid chromatography hplc using an agilent 1260 system equipped with a refractive index detector at the middle east technical university central laboratory.

eps is one of the bacterial com- ponents produced by lab and found to have an important role in probiotic activity such as survival adhesion and anti-tumor effect e. here we examine the production of eps by l. gasseri strains.

among 58 lactobacillus vaginal isolates that are previously screened for their capability of producing eps in culture medium two strains l. gasseri g10 and h15 were selected due to their high eps production capacity data not shown for further investigation in this study.

l. gasseri g10 yielded 178 - 3 and 242 - 3 mgl of eps and l-eps respectively while h15 yielded 217 - 2 and 255 - 4 mgl of eps and l-eps respectively .

in a study where 182 lactobacillus strains were screened for their eps production in mrs medium with relatively high sugar concentration a total of 60 strains produced eps in the medium and from those only 10 of the strains produced large amount of eps 100 mgl .

