this may be amplified in the very young veo-ibd population during the critical time of food introduction.a multicenter prospective observational study evaluated the clinical presentation and therapeutic management of veo-ibd and identified an increased administration of corticosteroid and immunomodulators in veo-ibd patients compared to patients with similar disease activity in other age groups .

certain risk allele genotypes have been associated with efficacy of een in pediatric crohn's disease and further characterization of genetic risk in veo-ibd may help guide the use of een in this population .een as a treatment option in veo-ibd also improves the nutritional status of our patients.

very early-onset inflammatory bowel disease veo-ibd refers to a subgroup of pediatric patients with ibd diag- nosed before 6 years of age.

nutritional therapies have been utilized to treat ibd but their role in veo-ibd is unclear.

disease behavior in veo-ibd is often different from dis- ease in adolescents and adults as it is often restricted to the colon and refractory to standard medical therapies.

up to 25 of veo-ibd patients have an identified underlying immunodeficiency which may impact response to therapy.

while specific mutations in interleukin 10 il-10 the il-10 receptor il-10r and mutations in ncf2 xiap lrba and ttc7 have been identified in veo-ibd polymorphisms in these genes are also associated with increased risk of developing ibd in adolescence or adult- hood.

we describe two cases in which infants presenting with veo-ibd achieved clinical remission using exclusive enteral nutrition a formula-based diet which has been shown to induce remission in older children with active crohn's disease.keywords crohn's disease  pediatric  inflammatory bowel disease  exclusive enteral nutrition  nutrition talya l. miller 1 department of pediatrics seattle children's hospital and university of washington 4800 sandpoint way ne seattle wa 98105 usaintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd is a chronic inflamma- tory disease of the gastrointestinal tract caused by a dys- regulated immune response to the fecal microbiota.

very early-onset inflammatory bowel disease veo-ibd refers to a subgroup of pediatric patients with ibd diagnosed before 6 years of age.

nutritional therapies have been utilized to treat ibd but their role in veo-ibd is unclear.

disease behavior in veo-ibd is often different from disease in adolescents and adults as it is often restricted to the colon and refractory to standard medical therapies.

up to 25 of veo-ibd patients have an identified underlying immun- odeficiency which may impact response to therapy.

while specific mutations in interleukin 10 il-10  the il-10 receptor il-10r  and mutations in ncf2 xiap lrba and ttc7 have been identified in veo-ibd polymorphisms in these genes are also associated with increased risk of developing ibd in adolescence or adult- hood -.

we describe two cases in which infants pre- senting with veo-ibd achieved clinical remission using exclusive enteral nutrition a formula-based diet which has been shown to induce remission in older children with active crohn's disease .case 1a 10-month-old boy presented to gastroenterology clinic for a 2-month history of frequent stooling and intermittent bloody diarrhea.

the continued elevation in sedi- mentation rate was felt to be related to ongoing anemia associated with diamond-blackfan table .discussionalthough similar medication therapies are used in veo- ibd as well as conventional ibd these cases illustrate the positive impact on een in veo-ibd.

