however it cannot be excluded that fnp interfered with the enzymes in the aflatoxin bioynthesis pathway andor the re- lease of aflatoxin from the fungal cell.

but further measurements were not performed.influence of fnp on mycelial growth oxidative stress and aflatoxin concentration the effect of fnp on mycelial growth is shown in fig.

in opposition to our results they determined a stimulation of aflatoxin synthesis by fnp and taken at face value the results may reflect the unpredictable nature of fnpapparent in our results too weaker inhibition of toxin synthe- sis at higher fnp levels.

msna reacts to increased ros levels and pro- motes transcription of antioxidant genes cat1 mn sod etc.. ap-1 simultaneously binds to the promoter region of aflr the transcriptional regulator of the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster and presumably downregulates aflatoxin biosynthesis while ros levels are low reverberi et al.

antioxidant activity of fullerols can suppress aflatoxin synthesis while prooxidant activity could lead to an increased cellular redox imbalance in turn adversely affecting fungal growth and enhancing aflatoxin biosynthesis.

control samples showed a decreasing trend in mycelial biomass weight after 4 days of growth while no such trend was found in any of the fnp-treated samples.analysis of aflatoxin content in yes media showed the dominance of aflatoxin b1 both in controls and in fnp-fig.

there was no delay in aflatoxin release observed at 10 and 100 ngml and aflatoxin content was reduced by an average 52 compared to control samples.changes of antioxidant enzyme activities during mycelial growth are shown in fig.

aflatoxin content is expressed in nanograms of aflatoxin b1 per millilitre of yes media and represented as the mean value of three separate experimentsoverall lower levels of cat and gpx activity were found in fnp-treated mycelia fig.

could have induced aflatoxin synthesis andor aflatoxin release in the growth media.

sci world j 2015109262. doiyu j 2012 current understanding on aflatoxin biosynthesis and future perspective in reducing aflatoxin contamination.

in order to shed some light on the extent of interaction between fnp and mycotoxigenic fungi the effects of fullerol c60oh24 nanoparticles 10 100 1000 ngml on mycelial growth aflatoxin production and oxidative stress modulation in an aflatoxigenic strain of aspergillus flavus nrrl 3251 during 168 h of incubation in a liquid culture medium were examined.

fnp slightly reduced mycelial biomass weight but significantly decreased aflatoxin concentration in media.

areadditional reasons to investigate fullerol effects on the fungi and their toxigenic potential.therefore the aim of this study was to examine the effect of low environmentally plausible doses of fullerol c60oh24 nanoparticles fnp on mycelial growth and aflatoxin release in media by an aflatoxigenic strain of a. flavus.

fnp caused statisti- cally significantly decreased content of aflatoxin b1 in media at all time points and at all examined concentrations.

over the whole incubation period aflatoxin content was reduced by an average 75 for the lowest fnp dose and by an average 83 for the 100 ngml dose.

