2014 Georgiou and Deamer 2014.Microbial cellulose has been identified as a significant ex- tracellular matrix component of biofilms which plays a key role in colonization of extreme environments by prokaryotes Ross et al.

In our previous studies microbial cellulose produced by a kombucha microbial com- munity KMC was substantiated as a possible biosignature of bacterial activity Kukharenko et al.

6c which resulted most likely from an accumulation of metals bioleached from the rock in the cellulose matrix Zaets et al.

While the struc- tural integrity of cellulose polymer examined with FT-IR spectroscopy was not disturbed by experimental conditions the survival capacity of the KMC members depended on exposure conditions within the experimental tray as well as on the method of specimen preparation.Links between stress responses and cellulose structural integrityThe mineralization of pellicle biofilm was recorded in changed cellulose IR spectra for instance a bell-like peak in the region that corresponds to -OH stretching could indicatethat -OH groups were engaged in BC interaction with inor- ganic ions and in the formation of complexes with metals.

These data demonstrate high stability of the cellulose molecule and prove our assumption that this polymer is a biomarker of live matter.Links between stress responses and the structure of KMCMore diverse communities are less affected by perturba- tions than less diverse ones Zaetz 2009 Awasthi et al.

In the framework of the multipurpose international project ''BIOlogy and Mars Experiment BIOMEX'' a vari- ety of organo-mineral samples were integrated into the EXPOSE-R2 platform to study the vitality of prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms and the stability of organic biomolecules as putative biomarkers de Vera et al.

Identification of iso- lated bacteria and yeasts was based on morphological and cultural characteristics and then proven by PCR and se- quencing of amplified genetic markers see below.Geological samplesAnorthosite rock samples were obtained from the Peni- zevitchi deposit Ukraine  Mytrokhyn et al.

EXPOSE allows users to carry out different astrobiologicalexperiments for extended periods of exposure to space con- ditions and solar radiation outboard of the ISS Rabbow et al.

Experiments conducted on BIOPAN and EXPOSE-E facilities have shown remarkable survival characteristics of several of a varying number of organisms for example lichens and prokaryotic and eukaryotic photo- trophs Cockell et al.

2011 Brandt et al.

