moreover the growth of sg was further inhibited when the sg was co-cultured with five uv mutants 6.20 6.19 6.30 6.10 and 6.14 log10 cfuml respectively.to acquire an even greater antimicrobial activity gs was performed using selected mutants from the uv mutagenesistable 2mean cc ratio of wild type and selected uv and gs mutantsone-way anova with tukey's post hoc test was used.

particularly gs1 showed the highest cc ratio 4.47 among mutant lab which was a 1.43-fold-higher value compared to wt 3.12. in a pathogen-lab co-cultivation assay gs mutants showed stronger growth inhibition of the sg during their co- cultivation compared with wt or uv mutants table .

plates were incu- bated at 37 degc for 48 h. selection of gs mutants was per- formed the same way as in the uv mutant selection.pathogen-top-agar assaythe selected mutants from uv mutagenesis and gs were inoculated into mrs broth and incubated at 37 degc for 30 min.

following gs four mutants showed improved anti- microbial activity compared with the uv mutants and wt.

in pathogen-top-agar assays four gs mutants gs1 gs2 gs3 and gs4 showed higher c c ratios 4.47 4.25 4.20 and 4.20 respectively than the uv mutants and wt table and fig.

the antimicrobial activity of gs mutants was evaluated using the same method as used for the selection of uv mutants.

in pathogen-top-agar assays wt showed a 3.12 cc ratio and five uv mutants uv1 uv2 uv3 uv4 and uv5 showed increased cc ratios 3.77 4.01 3.71 3.84 and 4.12 respectively table and fig.

a uv mutants and wt.

to further im- prove antimicrobial activity gs was performed on five uv mutants.

these steps were repeated three times.selected mutants from uv mutagenesis were reproduced using gs.

acidilactici wt was isolated from porcine feces in our lab and it was deposited in kctc kctc 21088. sg was ob- tained from kctc kctc 2931. wt was cultured in de man rogosa and sharpe mrs broth bddifco sparks md usa at 37 degc for 12 h and the cultivated sample was spread on mrs agar plates.

at first the culture supernatant of gs1 showed signif- icantly stronger inhibition to sg growth compared with wt however this antimicrobial activity was dramatically de- creased even under wt after proteinase k treatment.

to improve antimicrobial activity against sg uv mutagenesis was per- formed against wild-type p. acidilactici wt and five mu- tants showed improved antimicrobial activity.

the ex- periment was performed in triplicate.preparation of multi-species probioticsmulti-species probiotics 1 and 2 were prepared for the broiler feeding experiment using wt and gs respectively with bacillus subtilis and saccharomyces boulardii as a common multi-species composition in both probiotics.

in this study we im- proved the antimicrobial activity of p. acidilactici against sg using uv mutation and genome shuffling gs.

