furthermore 99 143144 of the isolates were also resistant to the non-beta-lactam antibiotics nal and cip 97 140144 to lev 75 108144 to tet 50 73144 to gen 35 50144 to sxt and 24 34144 to chl .thus all 144 isolates were considered mdr not-susceptible to at least one agent in three or more antimicrobial categories j.c. ferreira et al.

the e. coli phylogenetic group d was the most prevalent containing 60 87144 of the isolates 30 43144 were assigned to the phylogenetic group a 6 8144 of the isolates belonged to phylogenetic group b2 and 4 6144 belonged to phylogenetic group b1 .

the same plasmid replicons were later described in isolates from retail poultry meat in the same country in 2013 suggesting the as- sociation between these isolates .

the dna sequences and translated amino acid sequences obtained were compared with reference sequences from the lahey home page .characterization of plasmid replicon typing and genomic localizationafter pcr and dna sequencing isolates carrying pampc genes were selected for investigation and characterization of resistance plasmids.

co- resistance phenotypes are also involved in the maintenance of resistance genes and plasmids in e. coli  thus other antimicrobials frequently used such as fluoroquinolones may also play a role in the selection of mdr isolates in the animal environment .the distribution of phylogenetic groups has been suggested to be related with health status or geographical region of each host species analyzed .

moreover these plasmids are highly efficient in acquisition and transmission of most resistance genes .the inc. groups of plasmids identified in this study have been previ- ously associated with cmy-2-producing enterobacteriaceae worldwide  but never described in isolates from brazil.

b-lactamases or protection of antimicrobial target protein type ii dna topoisomerases from quinolones by qnr genes proteins .resistance genes involved with enzymatic inactivation are frequent- ly associated with mge .

their efficient conjugative system and broad host range contribute to the dissemination in commensal and pathogenic bacteria .thus the present study assessed the presence of extended spectrum cephalosporin-resistant e. coli pampc genes determined the size and inc. group of plasmids-carrying ampc genes and evaluated the popula- tion structure of pampc-producing e. coli in the commensal microbiota of apparently healthy broiler chickens.material and methodsisolatestwo-hundred cloacal swabs were obtained from commercial broilers in two poultry farms from sao paulo state brazil from 2011 to 2012. cloacal swab samples were streaked on macconkey mc agar containing cefotaxime 1 mgml and on mc agar with ceftazidime 1 mgml incubated at 37 degc for 24 h. one colony from each plate containing cefotaxime was selected to conduct the present study.

coli isolate based on the presence of chua yjaa genes and tspe4.c2 dna fragment.detection of plasmid-mediated ampc genesthe investigation of blacmy blamox blafox blalat blaact blamir bladha blamor genes was carried out by pcr .

we isolated 144200 72 of e. coli isolates with resistance to cefotaxime and the resistance gene identified was blacmy-2.

the phylogenetic groups a b1 b2 and d were identified among e. coli isolates and group d was the most prevalent.

the pcr-based replicon typing pbrt analysis identified four distinct plasmid incompatibility groups inc in mdr isolates.

in brazil blacmy-2 gene is rarely identified in human clinical isolates   and was never reported in live food-producing animals only in retail poultry meat .the survival of e. coli during antimicrobial therapy can occur by the complex interaction of different mechanisms that confer resistance to different classes of antibiotics at the same time.

the bacterial colonies were identified by classical biochemical methods and confirmed by api 20e system biomerieux france.antimicrobial susceptibility testingthe antimicrobial susceptibility of the isolates were determined by using the disk diffusion methods  and the results were interpreted according to recommendations of the clinical and laboratory standards institute  document m100-s23.

fifteen antimicrobial agents were tested including b-lactam antibiotics amoxicillin-clavulanic acid amc piperacillintazobactam tzp cefotaxime ctx ceftazidime caz cefoxitin fox cefepime fep aztreonam atm ertapenem etp and non b-lactam antibiotics nalidixic acid nal ciprofloxacin cip levofloxacin lev tetracycline tet gentamicin gen trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole sxt and chloramphenicol chl.pulsed-field gel electrophoresis pfge and phylogenetic analysisgenetic relationship among isolates was determined using analysis of xbai-digested genomic dna followed by pfge performed in chef driii system bio-rad usa as previously described .

