seven otus significantly in- creased in two communities tables 3 4 and 5 five of these were common to the apapa and ofin sediments otu 750785 795 1002 and 1050 one was shared between the apapa and eledu communities otu 1011 and one was common between the ofin and eledu sediments otu 155. only two of these otu had abundances 1 in both com- munities otu 785 and otu 1011 tables 3 4 and 5. the sediment communities differed substantially in the diversity of organisms that showed significant increases in abundance tables 3 4 and 5. the responsive community in the ofin sediment was most diverse and encompassed 15 different phy- la compared to seven phyla for the eledu sediment and fourphyla for the apapa community.discussionlevels of pah biodegradation in the ofin sediment were gen- erally less than that which occurred in the apapa or eledu microcosms.

however only a fraction of these shifts in abundance were statistically significant p  0.05 and amounted to 25 60 and 24 otus in the apapa ofin and eledu microcosms respec- tively tables 3 4 and 5. these groups of otu that showed significant increases during the incubation comprised of 37 of the apapa and ofin communities and 59 of the eledu sediment community total week 5 abundance tables 3 4 and 5. however the majority of the otu with significant in- creases was of low abundance 1 of the sediment commu- nity and the bulk of the total abundance increases was attrib- utable to only a few otu in each sediment.

4 principal component ordination of microbial communities in sediment microcosms at the start of the experiment week 0 and end of the study week 5. contours indicate the percent similarity between sampleswas accounted for by otu 1011chromatiales alone and otu 1011 combined with three other otu summed to 57. there was no otu that significantly increased in abun- dance in all three sediments.

occur more quickly and achieve greater levels of degradation in the sediment with larger fraction abundance of the community represented by aerobic bacteria 2 diversity of the communi- ties as gauged by both pah-rhda and ngs analyses would expand as aerobic incubation stimulated biodegradation of pah and other organic materials and 3 while the microbial communities indigenous to each sediment were unique par- ticular bacterial taxa would emerge from all as common re- sponders to pah most notably cycloclasticus of the omhb.materials and methodssample collection and physicochemical analyses sediment samples were collected from the lagos lagoon a tropical lagoon complex that stretches from cotonu in the republic of benin and extends to the fringes of the niger delta in nigeria along its 257-km course longitude 3deg23'' and 3deg53''e and latitude 6deg26'' and 6deg37'' n. samples were obtained from different locations of the lagos lagoon which varied in the types and intensity of impact from industrial and munici- pal pollution.

gram-negative pah- rhda but that their low abundance andor effects of pcr inhibitors such as humic substances impeded efficient amplification.diversity of sediment microbial communities for the ofin sediment alpha-diversity within sample diversity did not change significantly in terms of either otu richness chao1 or evenness shannon after the 5-week incubation table  fig.

identification of common responders to pah in sediments would strengthen the ability to relate ngs data on community dynamics to pah biodegradation in those environments.in prior work we examined estuarine sediments of the lagos lagoon nigeria and assessed relationships between microbial community structure and variation in the types and levels of a wide range of municipal and industrial wastes obi et al.

b relative abundance of major otu 1 of a given library in the sediment microcosms at the start of the experiment week 0 and end week 5. each column segment is the mean abundance of a single otu in three replicate microcosms -standard deviation.

there was little overlap between sediments in the otu that in- creased during the experiment and this responsive segment of the communities was for the most part represented by otu that did not attain high abundance.

to minimize variability from the dna extraction process 12 extractions were prepared from each sediment in batches of 0.25 g which were pooled to generate 1-g equivalent samples for each replicate at week 0and week 5. an aliquot 1 ml 50 ng from each of the 1-g equivalent extracts was used for generation of amplicon librar- ies for each sediment at the start of the experiment week 0 and at the end of 5-week incubation 12 libraries total.

bars are the mean abundance of the indicated pah in three replicate microcosms -standard deviationdiversity of pah-rhda in sediment communities neither of the two primer sets targeting gram-negative pah-rhda yielded products from any of the sediment samples at either time point.

for example in microcosm experiments with sediment from the milazzo harbor sicily addition of oil or naphthalene resulted in sig- nificant decreases in diversity and reflected expansion of a relatively narrow spectrum of omhb specialized for degra- dation of the materials yakimov et al.

in contrast spiking noncontaminated mangrove sediment with heavy fuel oil wasfollowed by an increase in microbial diversity dos santos et al.

in particular the marine pah-degrader cycloclasticus was not a common responder to pah andwas not detected in any sediment at week 0 or week 5. the absence of cycloclasticus was surprising as it is regarded as cosmopolitan inhabitant of marine and estuarine environ- ments geiselbrecht et al.

in vandecasteele jp ed petroleum microbiology concepts environ- mental implications industrial applications editions technip vol 1. paris france pp 342-411burgess rm berry wj mount dr di toro dm 2013 mechanistic sediment quality guidelines based on contaminant bioavailability equilibrium partitioning sediment benchmarks.

appl microbiol biotechnol 98875-884. doixia xh xia n lai y dong j zhao p zhu b li z ye w yuan y huang j 2015 response of pah-degrading genes to pah bioavailability in the overlying water suspended sediment and deposited sediment of the yangtze river.

