the number of reads linked to each fbp gene was counted with htseq-count  and a text file report was generated in the output folder.resultspcr primer design for fbp identificationin order to develop a specific and reliable assay for fbp identifica- tion suitable for illumina miseq sequencing technology we screened available literature for primer pairs that had previously been described for the detection of common fbps.

two days are required by fpp compared to up to four days when using classical methods while it is also relative straight-forwards and reliable in contrast to dna microarray it is based on non-modified oligonu- cleotides while the bioinformatic analysis will avoid false negative results.taken altogether our findings highlight the usefulness of fpp as a method to simultaneously rapidly and reliably detect various well- known fbps.

fpp was evaluated by means of in silico and in vitro end-point pcr using dna from selected fbps while specificity sensitivity and the use of multiplex pcr were validated and optimized employing single- or mixed- dna template experiments.

despite the low number of specific reads the fpp was able to detect each of the purposely added fbps such as c. jejuni and l. monocytogenes as well as c. jejuni l. monocytogenes and s. enteritidis in swordfish and poultry meat respectively a.in order to validate the fpp protocol for fbp detection in a food chain control procedure the assay was also applied to naturally contaminated food samples.

regarding fish and poultry samples fbp species usually associated with fbds in these matrices were identified using the fpp approach and are illustrated in c and d respectively.sensitivity of fppwe tested the sensitivity and efficiency of fpp compared to culture dependent methods for the identification of fbps.

selected primer pairs have an annealing temperature ranging from 53 to 56 degc.primer specificity was checked using primer blast with searches against the non-redundant genbank database.only primer pairs that fully complied with the above mentioned criteria were selected for the subsequent step on the panel validation procedure a. primers were synthetized by macrogen macrogen inc. korea.pcr amplification and design of the foodborne pathogen - panelthe specificity and sensitivity properties for each primer set weretable 1bacterial strains used in this study.bacteriastrainsmediafood sourcesaeromonas hydrophilaatcc 35654tryptic soy agar tsaseafoodbacillus cereusatcc 9634tsaspice and corncampylobacter colicc1blood agarraw meat raw chicken raw milkcampylobacter jejuniatcc33291blood agartsashellfish raw meat raw chicken raw milkclostridium difficilevpi 10463blood agarraw meatclostridium perfringensnctc 8237blood agarraw meat raw chickenclostridium tyrobutirricumatcc 25755blood agarraw milk cheesecronobacter sakazakiiatcc 29544tsavegetables milk powder cheese eggs meatescherichia coliatcc 35150 o157h7tsaraw meat raw milk vegetableshelicobacter pyloriatcc 43526blood agarlisteria monocytogenesatcc 13932tsaraw chicken milk seafoodmycobacterium tubercolosistmc 102cattle milk dairy productspseudomonas aeruginosaatcc 27853tsaraw vegetables saladsalmonella enterica subsp.

samples were tested with classical end-point pcr using fpp oligonucleotides to verify that food matrices were not contaminated with test organisms.during fpp assay validation samples that were deemed to be fbp- free were deliberately contaminated with varying amounts of fbps.

moreover a possible improvement of fpp could involve the inclusion of a specific quantification step for the different fbps thus allowing the use of fpp not only for qualitative but also for quantifica- tion purposes.supplementary data to this article can be found online at .acknowledgementsthis work was funded by the eu joint programming initiative - a healthy diet for a healthy life jpi hdhl  and miur to mv.

finally this newly developed fpp approach was applied to trace fbps in naturally contaminated food matrices.materials and methodsbacterial strains and dna extractionbacterial strains and culture media used in this work are listed in .

in particular high read numbers were detected for caciotta cheese dna while a smaller number of reads were detected for fish and poultry samples probably due to varying dna extraction efficiencies from these food matrices b. notably despite the encountered difficulties the fpp was able to detect a high number of reads associated with e. coli and s. enterica while a lower number of reads was shown to correspond to s. aureus and y. enterocolitica.

barcoded dna fragments were enriched and cleaned- up illumina truseq nano dna sample preparation guide part15041110rev.d illumina.from the concentration and the average size of each amplicon library the amount of dna fragments per microliter was calculated and libraries for each run were diluted to the proper concentration prior to clonal amplification.

based on the in vitro amplification test results  oligonucleo-tide pairs were selected or discarded  for development of the fpp a. in order to confirm the amplification results single end- point pcrs were performed for each positive primer pair against all fbps included in this study by selecting a unique annealing tempera- ture consisting of 55 degc.

in order to ensure an unambiguous identification of fbps 49 representative genes were chosen to target a set of fbps whose genomes were used as templates for primer pair design.

primer sets targeting the fbps yielded specific pcr products as displayed by the presence of sequencing reads that mapped onto fbps  reach- ing  66.1 of mapped reads of the total sequencing output in the cheese sample and perfectly aligned with the targeted gene sequences.

chromosomal dna extracted from fbps was employed as a template for end-point pcr using each of the 49 primer pairs included in the panel.

