2003 is one of the first strategies for primary prevention of cancer because tobacco is related to 16 different types of cancer and smoking is the cause of 71 of deaths due to lung cancer 2015. the knowledge from the biological molecular and clinical data could improve the outcome for this disease and help avoid the behavior increasing the susceptibility for cancer development.

however no cancer treatment has been proved more effective in cancer patients who smoke compared to non-smoking patients neither are there any prognostic biomarkers for cancer patients who continue to smoke us department of health 2014.if both processes share the same molecular basis and therefore the same biological pathways it is important to highlight the need to study psychiatric diseases along with other co-morbidities such as cancer.

since the principles that construct these ontologies can be applied to the bioinformatics of complex diseases this type of initiatives from multidisciplinary groups can be a more effective approach through systems biology to address the complexity issue of diseases such as cancer and psychiatric disorders in an organizedframework that would provide an integral picture of the individual and his illness.omics studies on neuropsychiatric disorders and cancerthere few studies regarding the association of psychiatric diseases and cancer such as schizophrenia and breast cancer catts et al.

polymorphisms of the alcohol dehydrogenase adh1b arg48his and aldehyde dehydrogenase aldh2 glu487lys genes are commonly associated with alcohol consumption and cancer.the adh1b gene and its alleles arg48his rs1229984 and arg370cys rs2066702 are associated with alcohol metabolism and drinking behavior cancer and human phenomes polimanti and gelernter 2017. esophageal cancer is associated with an argarg genotype of adh1b arg48his although its 48his allele has been proved to have a protective effect against this type of cancer mao et al.

the implications of increasing the level of complexity for example studying the co-morbidity with another disease such as cancer will also be discussed.keywords systems biology psychiatry lung cancer diagnosis omicsintroductionaccording to the world health organization who the frequency of psychiatric diseases has been steadily increasing world health organization 2011. furthermore many patients do not fully respond to therapy.

2003. a study evaluating the prevalence of psychiatric illness in cancer patients reported that 47 of cancer patients diagnosed with mental disorders amongst them 85 with anxiety and depression 8 with cerebral organic disorders and 7 with personality disorders citero vde et al.

for instance breast cancer comorbidity with depression is associated with a poorer quality of life poor treatment adherence impaired physical and cognitive function and cancer progression or survival.

a broad research program to improve creative approaches to precision medicine test them rigorously and use them to build the evidence base needed to guide clinical practice is essential collins and varmus 2015. a clear example for this is the relation between smoking and lung cancer.nicotine addiction and lung cancerthe clearest example of how a psychiatric disorder influences the development of cancer is the relation between smoking and lung cancer.

it is the primary cause of death worldwide as actively smoking causes different chronic diseases several types of cancer and respiratory and cardiovascular diseases world health organization 2008.there is evidence presented in the 2014 surgeon general's report us health department modifying cancer care.

the detrimental consequences of smoking in patients with cancer are mediated by the activation of tumorigenic pathways and physiological alterations including the complications associated with cancer treatment and development of comorbidities.

gwas involving human addictions in lung cancer patients have reported the same variants in the gene cluster chrna5a3b4 previously associated with nicotine dependence and lung cancer susceptibility wang et al.

2009 2012. the application of metabolomics in cancer research has led to a renewed appreciation of metabolism in cancer development and progression.

j. psychiatry177 212-217. doi bushe c. j. bradley a. j. widgust h. j. and hodgson r. e. 2009. schizophrenia and breast cancer incidence a systematic review of clinical studies.

669. doi catts v. s. catts s. v. o'toole b. i. and frost a. d. 2008. cancer incidence in patients with schizophrenia and their first degree relatives- a meta-analysis.

doi chen z. h. xian j. f. and luo l. p. 2016. analysis of adh1b arg47his aldh2 glu487lys and cyp4502e1 polymorphisms in gastric cancer risk and interaction with environmental factors.

