there was no significant difference between1178manafi et al.table 3. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli on vaccine titer of broilers at 42 d of age.chal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd 0.05 diet 3 bs bacillus subtilis 0.1 nd  newcastle disease ib  infection bronchitis ai  avian influenza ibd  infection bursal disease.a-dmeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.table 4. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli on blood metabolites of broilers at 42 d of age.albumin gdlglobulin gdlcholesterol mgdltriglyceride mgdl chalunchalmeanschalunchalmeanschalunchalmeanschalunchalmeanschal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd 0.05 diet 3 bs bacillus subtilis 0.1.a-dmeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.table 5. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli on blood metabolites of broilers at 42 d of age.hdl mgdlldl mgdlalt alp 106mlchal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd 0.05 diet 3 bs bacillus subtilis 0.1 hdl high-density lipoprotein ldl low-density lipoprotein alt alanine transaminase alp alkaline phosphatase.abmeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.the control and the e. coli challenged treatment by addition of bacillus subtilis as a probiotic.

bacillus subtilis inclusion significantly p  0.01 decreased albumin globulin cholesterol triglyceride ldl and alt concentrations and increased hdl concentrationbacillus subtilis and antibiotic growth promoter in broiler nutrition1179table 6. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli on ileum morphological characteristics of broilers at 42 d of age.villus height mmcrypt depth mmvillus height to crypt depthrationumber of goblet cellchal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd 0.05 diet 3 bs bacillus subtilis 0.1.a-cmeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.number of goblet cells in each one mm of villus length.table 7. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli on cecal microbial populations at 42 d of age.chal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 0.05 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd diet 3 0.1 bs bacillus subtilis.a-emeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.of plasma compared with the respective control group.

the results of group comparisons showed that inoculation of e. coli in the diets significantly p  0.01 reduced all of the organ weights except the weight of bursa of fabricius and bacillus subtilis inclusion to challenged birds intensified this effect.1180manafi et al.table 8. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli on on relative organ weight gkg of bw of broilers at 42 d of age.chal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 0.05 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd diet 3 0.1 bs bacillus subtilis.a-dmeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.digestibility of utrientsas shown in table  both of the bmd and bacil- lus subtilis groups increased the digestibility of cp cf and ge significantly p  0.01. the e. coli chal- lenged group reduced the digestibility of dm cp cf and ge significantly p  0.01 with respect to con- trol.

experimental treatments diets include 1 control diet 2 control e. coli 0.5 ml of culture containing 108cfu of e. coliml 3 con- trol  0.1 bacillus subtilis calsporinqr  calpis co. ltd japan 4 control  0.05 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd 5 control  e. coli and bacil- lus subtilis and 6 control  e. coli and bmd.

e. coli was grown on eosin methylene blue agar salmonella in salmonella shigella merck germany and coliform was grownbacillus subtilis and antibiotic growth promoter in broiler nutrition1177table 2. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli on performance of broilers from one to 42 d of age.chal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd 0.05 diet 3 bs bacillus subtilis 0.1.abmeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.on mcconkey agar darmstadt germany.

coli challenged diets increased digestibility of crude protein considerably.bacillus subtilis and antibiotic growth promoter in broiler nutrition1181table 9. effect of different dietary treatments and challenge with e. coli energy and nutrient apparent digestibility at 42 d of age.chal challenged diets with 0.5 ml of culture containing 108 cfu of e. coliml unchal unchallenged.diet 1 control diet diet 2 0.05 bacitracin methylene disalicylate bmd diet 3 0.1 bs bacillus subtilis dm  dry matter cp  crude protein cf  crude fiber ge  gross energy.a-dmeans followed by different lowercase letters in the same line are different from each other in diet factor.abmeans followed by different uppercase letters in the same column are different from each other in challenged factor.in findings of the current trial albumin globulin cholesterol triglyceride and ldl concentrations were increased in e. coli challenged bird's plasma.

13222- 228.hooge d. 2008. b. subtilis spores may aid broiler performance dietary bacillus subtilis spores may significantly improve com- mercial broiler chicken performance based on experimental re- sults.nutrition  health poultry.

2004. field evaluation of the effect of a probiotic-containing bacillus licheniformis and bacillus subtilis spores on the health status performance and carcass quality of grower and finisher pigs.

efficacy of bacillus subtilis and bacitracin methylene disalicylate on growth performance digestibility blood metabolites immunity and intestinal microbiota after intramuscular inoculation with escherichia coli in broilersm.

hedayatiand n. piranydepartment of animal science faculty of agricultural sciences malayer university malayer 65719-95863 iran and department of animal science faculty of agricultural sciences university of shahrekord shahrekord iranabstract this experiment was conducted to eval- uate the effect of bacillus subtilis bs on broiler perfor- mance and health after intramuscular inoculation withe.

results of the study suggest that spore-forming probiotics are par- tially effective in unsuitable rearing situations such as colibacillosis in which the load of harmful bacteria is high.key words bacillus subtilis bacitracin methylene disalicylate e. coli infection performance broiler2017 poultry science 961174-1183 introductionthe poultry industry is a sector with rapid devel- opment among all iranian agricultural fields manafi .

it has been postulated that bacillus subtilis c- 3102 spores vegetate in the intestinal lumen and con- sume oxygen making a more anaerobic condition favor- able to native lactobacilli which then proliferate and produce lactic acid to control pathogens hooge et al.

besides inhibiting certain pathogens such as e. coli and salmonella the proliferation of lactobacilli and increased lactic acid production as a result of feed- ing bacillus subtilis also appears to increase utilization of calcium barabesi et al.

therefore the cur- rent study was conducted to assess and compare the effects of bacillus subtilis with growth promoting an- tibioticon growth performance nutrient digestibilitiesintestinal microbiota blood characteristics and organ weight changes in broilers after intramuscular inocula- tion with e. coli.materials and methodsbird management and experimental designthree-hundred-sixty one-day-old male ross 308 chicks were obtained from a local commercial hatchery grown over a 42-day experimental period according to malayer university approved animal care rules and pro- tocols.

to avoid cross contamination the ab- sence of bacillus subtilis spores was confirmed in the feces of birds from the negative control group.

