regarding mesophilic bacteria 10 of samples contained more than 100 cfuml again such samples are not suitable for use as drinking water for humans and consequently cannot be used in the food industry.we found no relation between mesophilic bacteria and sample origin or sampling area.conclusionsanalysis of water samples from milking parlors col- lected from farms in galicia spain revealed the pres- ence of pharmaceuticals in 65 of samples with the concentration of pharmaceuticals in positive samples ranging between 17 and 3941 ngl.

color version available online.table 2. therapeutic class and limit of quantification loq of selected veterinary drugsby injecting 10 ml of extract into a synergi 2.5 mm polar-rp 100a column 50 x 2.0 mm connected to a polar-rp security-guard cartridge 4.0 x 2.0 mm both obtained from phenomenex.water sampleswater samples collected for this research were clean- ing water collected in the milking parlors of 52 milk- ing farms from the province of lugo figure 1. the samples were from private water wells 52 of the samples from distribution systems 17 from both sources as the farm has access to both water systems 4 and unknown origin 27. water samples were collected in 1-l polyethylene plastic vessels for pharma- ceutical detection and in 150-ml polyethylene plastic containers for microbial analyses.

2014 it is important to note that 29 of the samples contained more than one pharmaceutical 6 samples were positive for 2 drugs4 samples for 3 drugs 3 samples were for 4 drugs 1 sample for 5 drugs and 1 sample was positive for 6 drugs.

the average rainfall is 678 mmyr meteogalicia 2015. table 1 shows average climato- logical data temperature relative humidity rain light hours and hydric balance of the province of lugo over a 17-wk period from february to june 2015. the region investigated was divided into areas figure 1 south 1 sample coast 6 samples mountain 7 samples flatland 15 samples and center 23 samples.chemicals reagents and stock solutionsmethanol and acetonitrile hplc grade 99.9 were purchased from scharlau chemie barcelona spain formic acid purity 99 for analysis from acros organics geel belgium and hydrochloric acid solution 0.1 n hcl from merck darmstadt ger- many.

after treatment the samples were stored at -18degc until analysis.extraction procedurefor quantification 4 control samples were acidified fortified and extracted following the same analytical procedure as the experimental samples.

2014.when data were analyzed by sampling area the coast area figure 2 had the fewest contaminated samples none of the samples analyzed contained residues of the pharmaceuticals at the limit of quantitation of the method used table 2. on the other hand more than 70 of the samples from the flatland mountain cen- ter and south areas were contaminated with drugs.

we noted that the number of contaminated samples by area correlated with the number of farms and total number of cattle by area the coast and south areas had fewer farms and cattle approximately 10 of the total number of cattle figure 1.the flatland and mountain areas had the higher number of samples positive for more than one pharma- ceutical 60 and 57 of the samples had more than one pharmaceutical in these areas respectively.

microbiological analyses of the 52 water samples collected from milking parlors in the current study showed 13 samples to be positive for the pres- ence of coliforms in a total volume of 100 ml and 10 of these samples came from farms with well water out of 27 wells analyzed.

of the same quality as drinking water hereafter we refer to samples as water or drink- ing water.sample preparationto remove suspended solids water samples were fil- tered 800 ml under vacuum using a 0.47-mm glass microfiber filter from filter-lab la rioja spain.

these control samples include a blank tap water and 3 fortified samples tap water enriched with drugs at 75 150 and 300 ngl respectively.

2015. after sulfonamides trimethoprim was the most frequently detected drug it was present in 17 of the samples whereas trimethoprim was found in only 2 of samples of finished drinking water from canada kleywegt et al.

for humans the continu- ous ingestion of milk contaminated with low level of antimicrobial via water could lead to the development of resistant bacterial strains as has been shown for ani- mals kemper 2008.the second most frequently detected group was coc- cidiostats present in 20 of samples they are also the second most used drug group in veterinary medicine fedesa 1999. decoquinate was measured in 16 of samples at concentrations ranging between 17 and 732ngl.

the central areatable 5. statistical analysis p-values of the presence and concentration of each drug detected against sampling area average sunlight rainfall temperature water source and sampling monthmonthhad the lowest risk samples 31 of the samples did not contain any pharmaceuticals and 60 only one phar- maceutical.

on the other hand microbio- logical analyses demonstrated that the water used in most cases is drinkable and even suitable for human consumption however there is evidence of fecal con- tamination because 26 of the samples were positive for total coliforms.acknowledgmentsthe authors thank the xunta de galicia for funding this study through project gi-1702 rumigal rede de estudio multidisciplinar dos ruminates en galicia and for providing us the water samples.

the aim of this work was to monitor the presence of 19 active drugs in water samples collected from milking parlors of dairy farms located in galicia northwest spain one of the main spanish milking areas.

