as shown in  the colonic alp preparations were strongly inhibited by l-phenylalanine but not l-homoarginine or levamisole.hgm and lgm induced the gene expression of colonic iap-i but not akp3 or alplcompared with the control group colonic iap-i gene expres- sion was 3.3- and 3.1-fold higher in the hgm and lgm groups respectively p  .05 c. the expression of akp3 and alpl genes did not differ among the 3 groups.

and bacteroides were not affected by dietary gms.colonic alp activity significantly correlated with fecal iga mucins cecal butyrate propionate and lactate  p  .01. fecal ratios of clostridium coccoides and c leptum were inversely correlated with colonic alp activity  p  .01. the other factors of gut epithelial homeostasis did not correlate with colonic alp.discussionwe previously observed that consumption of lily bulb which is rich in glucomannan elevated colonic alp activity without affecting intestinal liver or serum alp activity .

original articleglucomannan consumption elevates colonic alkaline phosphatase activity by up-regulating the expression of iap-i which is associated with increased production of protective factors for gut epithelial homeostasis in high-fat diet-fed ratsyukako  tetsuyuki a faculty of human life sciences fuji women's university ishikari 061-3204 japanb institution of life sciences and nutrition kita-37 nishi-3-1-16-308 kita-ku sapporo 001-0037 japana r t i c l e i n f oa b s t r a c t article historyreceived 9 december 2016revised 23 april 2017accepted 13 may 2017keywordsalkaline phosphatase alp glucomannanhigh-fat hf dietcolonic luminal environment ratswe previously reported that consumption of glucomannan-containing food lily bulb modulates gut microbiota and increases gut immunoglobulin a iga index of intestinal immune function mucins index of intestinal barrier function and colonic alkaline phosphatase alp activity in rats fed a high-fat hf diet.

taken together we guess that the fermentable non-digestible carbohydrates similarly elevate colonic alp activity in rats.therefore based on the current literature we hypothe-sized that in rats fed an hf diet dietary glucomannan would affect colonic alp activity and gene expression as well as improve the intestinal immune and barrier functions fer- mentation and microflora.

colonic alp activity in rats fed hgm and lgm may beassociated with elevated colonic iap-i expression.

additionallily bulb on colonic alp activity is mainly due to glucomannan and that consumption of glucomannan regardless of its degree of viscosity specifically enhances the colonic alp activity of rats fed an hf diet.it has not been revealed which type of alp is elevated in the colon by fermentable carbohydrate containing diet .

therefore the elevation of colonic alp activity in the hgm and lgm groups is due to an increase in intestinal type alp.there is little information whether fermentable carbohy- drate affects colonic gene expression of alp.

taken together these studies suggest that elevated colonic alp activity induced by hgm and lgm has a strong relationship with increased gut iga mucin secretion and may be related with colonic defense systems.

we anticipated that colonic alp activity would be important for colonic function in animals and humans and speculate that this glucomannan effect is at least partly related to an improvement in colon health.

small intestinal alp has an established protective effect in inflammatory diseases whereas little is known about the function of colonic alp activity.

we hypothesized that dietary glucomannan would increase colonic alp activity and the gene expression in rats fed an hf diet.

dietary hgm and lgm significantly increased colonic alp activity without affecting alp activity in the small intestine.

the colonic expression of iap-i an alp gene expressed throughout the intestine was significantly higher in the hgm and lgm groups when compared with the control group.

the colonic expression of akp3 and alpl other alp genes were not affected by hgm and lgm.

the present study showed that dietary glucomannan elevates colonic alp activity by up-regulation of the expression of iap-i which might be important for protection of gut epithelial homeostasis.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionalkaline phosphatase alp ec 3.1.

