after collection they were transported to the laboratory in an insulated container with ice where they were thoroughly homogenized to one representative sample per locality and immediately processed.artificial oil contaminationheavy oil contamination was performed using fresh sediment sam- ples from each locality and the oil biodegradation process was moni- tored weekly during the first month and then monthly during the four following months when the oil was visually degraded.

we conducted a laboratory oil contamination experiment using sedi- ments from two mangroves with different oil contamination histories aiming to test the two-phase pattern of oil biodegradation hypothesis .

bacterial interactions and implications for oil biodegradation process in mangrove sedimentsadriana daudt grativol  albany a marchetti  rita m wetler-tonini  thiago m venancio  carlos en gatts fabiano l thompson  carlos e rezende a centro de biociencias e biotecnologialaboratorio de ciencias ambientais universidade estadual do norte fluminense campos dos goytacazes rio de janeiro brazilb centro de biociencias e biotecnologialaboratorio de quimica e funcoes de proteinas e peptideos universidade estadual do norte fluminense campos dos goytacazes rio de janeiro brazilc centro de ciencias e tecnologialaboratorio de ciencias fisicas universidade estadual do norte fluminense campos dos goytacazes rio de janeiro brazild instituto de biologia ccs laboratorio de microbiologia universidade federal do rio de janeiro rio de janeiro rio de janeiro brazila r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 15 september 2016received in revised form 18 february 2017accepted 18 february 2017available online 1 march 2017keywordsoil biodegradation mangrove ecological surveymicrobial resource management framework t-rflpa b s t r a c t mangrove sediment harbors a unique microbiome and is a hospitable environment for a diverse group of bacteria capable of oil biodegradation.

several studies on oil contamination reported a drastic short-term reduction in the diversity of the bacterial communities which could be accounted for by oil toxicity and strong selection for particular hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria such as alcanivorax spp.

guanabara bay has a much higher salin- ity value than gargau and has been exposed to multiple oil spills whereas in gargau there has never been an oil spill.

during the oil incubation period both sampling sites from guanabara bay showed change values close to 100 from the ini- tial community with the exception of gba at day 7 suggesting that the initial community of gba was already impacted by the presence of oil components.

2010. mangrove bacterial diversity and the impact of oil contaminationrevealed by pyrosequencing bacterial proxies for oil pollution.

our goal was to understand bacterial community dynamics from mangrove sedi- ments contaminated with heavy-oil and to evaluate patterns potentially associated with oil biodegradation is such environments.

two sample sites with different oil pollution histories were compared through t-rflp analyses and using a pragmatic approach based on the microbial resource management framework.

our data corroborated the al- ready reported two-phase pattern of oil biodegradation although the original proposed explanation related to the biophysical properties of the soil is questioned opening the possibility to consider other plausible hypotheses of microbial interactions as the main drivers of this pattern.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionmicrobial communities in contaminated ecosystems tend to be dominated by the organisms that can degrade or tolerate the contami- nant.

.it has been reported that oil biodegradation follows a two-phase pat- tern characterized by a first phase of fast petroleum degradation with high abundance of few species followed by a second phase of slower petroleum degradation with high richness of low abundant species.

alberto lamego 2000 campos dos goytacazes rj 28013-602 brazil.e-mail address a.d. grativol.several studies suggest that mangrove is a hospitable environment for the growth of a diverse group of bacteria capable of oil biodegrada- tion  .

we approached this goal by performing an eco- logical survey  aiming at understanding bacterial community dynamics from mangrove sediments under heavy-oil con- tamination stress and at looking for common patterns that may be as- sociated with oil biodegradation is such environments.

analytical coefficients of variation for elemental compositions were below 5 for individual samples and accuracy was determined using a certificate ma- terial low organic content soil elemental microanalysis with a 97 of recovery.guanabara bay is notorious for its chronically polluted conditions with a history of oil spill accidents .

there is no record of oil spill in this area.for each site three composite samples consisting of five sediment cores each c. 10 cm of top sediment with 8 cm diameter were random- ly collected.

