results can be of interest for producing probiotic table olives and open new research challenges on the causes of inoculum vanishing during the storage phase.keywords green spanish-style table olives probiotic starter culture large-scale fermentation inoculum survivalintroductiontable olives are a fermented vegetable of the mediterranean basin with many centuries of history.

processing early in the season september showed a favorable effect on fermentation and strain predominance on olives particularly when using acidified brines containing 25 l hclvessel but caused the disappearance of the target strain from both brines and olives during the storage phase.

the adhesion of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria on the epidermis of the processed olives   and the formation of true biofilms on green spanish-style table olives     have been reported recently.

used single and combined cultures of l. pentosus and lactobacillus plantarum isolated from industrially fermented olives for processing halkidiki olives in 14 l capacity plastic vessels.

recently  made a review of the most relevant biotechnological innovations in table olives based on both traditional and innovative starter cultures.despite the substantial effort devoted to the use of starter culture in green spanish-style table olives the fermentation process at industrial scale remains virtually spontaneous.

aiming at the selection of the most favorable conditions for the assurance of the appropriate strain implantation the present study assessed the effects of time of inoculation time of the processing season inoculum history and initial ph correction on the fermentation profile and inoculum predominance.materials and methodsexperimental design and olivesthis work is related to experiments carried out in two successive seasons 20112012 inoculation 26 september 2011 and 20122013 inoculations 27 september 2012 and 25 october 2012. the study was carried out at jolca s.a. facilities in huevar del aljarafe seville spain using manzanilla olives picked by hand at the green maturation stage.the experiments were always carried out in 16000 l industrial fermentation vessels containing 9856 kg olives and 6374 l brine.

e. and panagou e. p. 2014. inoculated fermentation of green olives with potential probiotic lactobacillus pentosus and lactobacillus plantarum starter cultures isolated from industrially fermented olives.

 1  veronica romero-gil1  1 juan c. roldan-reyes2  rosa torres-gallardo2  1 pedro garcia-garcia1 and antonio garrido-fernandez11 food biotechnology department instituto de la grasa agencia estatal consejo superior de investigaciones cientificas csic university campus pablo de olavide seville spain 2 jolca aceitunas s.a. seville spainedited by rosalba lanciotti universita di bologna italyreviewed bymaria aponte university of naples federico ii italychiara montanari universita di bologna italycorrespondencefrancisco n. arroyo-lopezspecialty sectionthis article was submitted to new trends in table olive productiona section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 12 december 2016accepted 04 may 2017published 17 may 2017citation rodriguez-gomez f romero-gil v arroyo-lopez fn roldan-reyes jctorres-gallardo r bautista-gallego j garcia-garcia p and garrido-fernandez a 2017assessing the challenges in the application of potential probiotic lactic acid bacteriain the large-scale fermentation of spanish-style table olives.

8915.doi this work studies the inoculation conditions for allowing the survivalpredominance of a potential probiotic strain lactobacillus pentosus tomc-lab2 when used as a starter culture in large-scale fermentations of green spanish-style olives.

the study was performed in two successive seasons 20112012 and 20122013 using about 150 tons of olives.

on the contrary processing in october slightly reduced the target strain predominance on olives 70-90 but allowed longer survival.

thus this investigation discloses key issues for the survival and predominance of starter cultures in large-scale industrial fermentations of green spanish-style olives.

such discoveries have encouraged researchers to investigate the use of multifunctional starter cultures for producing potential probiotic olives at laboratory and pilot plant scales.

in fact this step is an essential requirement to turn table olives into a carrier of beneficial microorganisms to the human body.

in heat shocked green olives the results were similar and higher recoveries of the l. pentosus b281 strain were observed  .

