7f p  0.0078. therefore injection of serum obtained from cv mice into gf mice also restores inflammatory responsiveness during infectious stimuli.discussionin the present study we demonstrate that a soluble factor present in the serum of conventionally colonized mice is able to restore re- sponsiveness to inflammatory challenges in gf mice the serum of ab-deficient mice is unable to reverse inflammatory hypores- ponsiveness in gf mice and injection of abs obtained from serum of cv mice into gf hosts restores inflammatory responsiveness previous treatment with abs from cv mice inhibits production of anti-inflammatory mediators in gf hosts favoring nf-kb ac- tivation and expression of proinflammatory mediators upon inflammatory insult and the reversion of inflammatory respon- siveness of gf mice by serum from cv mice confers resistance to k. pneumoniae pulmonary infection.

the injection of gf serum to cv mice gf serum to gf mice and cv serum to cv mice was also performed as controls.in cv mice that received cv or gf serum an intense local and remote inflammatory response was observed after ir injury that was marked by an increase in vascular permeability fig.

2d p  0.0196. therefore conventionalization of gf mice leads to igg production and se- rum from cvn mice restores inflammatory responsiveness in gf hosts.our next step was to evaluate whether serum transfer would in- crease levels of circulating igg in gf mice and whether there would be igg deposition upon ir induction in gf mice that received serum from cv animals an event that was shown to be important for ir- associated tissue injury.

transferring serum from ig-deficient mice to gf animals did not alter their response to inflammatory insult however injecting purified abs from cv animals restored inflammatory responsiveness in gf mice suggesting that natural abs present in serum were responsible for altering gf responsiveness.

axenic or germ-free gf mice display a distinct inflammatory phenotype throughout their lives and they respond to inflammatory stimuli in a unique way 4 5. our group has demonstrated previously that gf mice presented little evidence of local or systemic injury after intestinal ir 6. the inability of these gf mice to inflame in response to reperfusion injury was largely a result of their innate capacity to produce il-10.

the skin incision was closed with surgical staples.conventionalization of gf micethe process of colonizing gf mice with microbiota from cv mice is re- ferred to as conventionalization and this was performed as previously described 6. briefly fecal samples removed from the large intestine of cv mice were homogenized in saline 10 and administered by oral gavage to gf mice.

graphpad prism 5.01 software graphpad was used for the analyses.resultsserum transfer from cv mice restores the inflammatory response tissue injury and lethality induced by ir injury in the small intestine of gf miceseveral studies have shown that gf mice have a drastically reduced repertoire of igs compared with cv mice 15 16. we also ob- served a major reduction in circulating igg levels in gf mice compared with cv mice supplemental fig.

therefore these find- ings demonstrate that serum transfer from cv mice to gf mice abrogated il-10 production in the latter thus favoring re- establishment of the inflammatory response in these mice as shown by vascular permeability neutrophil influx and tnf-a release.serum transfer-mediated re-establishment of the inflammatory response in gf mice is associated with igswe have previously shown that reposition of microbiota in gf mice conventionalization for 14 d re-establishes an inflam- matory phenotype in the conventionalized cvn mice 6 32. conventionalization of mice for this period also led to an in- crease in serum igg concentrations to levels that are similar to those observed in cv mice supplemental fig.

gf mice that received the heat-inactivatedfigure 2. serum from cvn gf mice is also capable of restoring the inflammatory response upon intestinal ir in gf mice.

a-d gf mice received 400 ml of cv mouse serum gf mouse serum or cvn gf mouse serum 24 h before ischemia.

with these results we can conclude that serum transfer from cv mice is capable of restraining expression of anti-inflammatory proteins and re- establishing activation of nf-kb upon reperfusion injury.serum transfer reversal of the anti-inflammatory phenotype restores the capacity of gf mice to deal with k. pneumoniae infectionhaving established that serum transfer is able to reverse the phenotype of gf mice in a model of sterile acute inflammatory injury we next addressed whether the serum transfer would be capable of restoring the response of gf mice against infections.

e the groups that received control gf to gf or cv cv to gf serum are shown.

the expression of il-10 in gf mice challenged with inflammatory stimuli seems to be controlled by the production ofhigh quantities of anxa-1 and lxa4 8. it is known that anxa-1 controls the expression of cytokines in vivo through activation of the transcription factor gilz 41. furthermore previous studies showed that gilz is capable of inducing il-10 expression 42-44. in our experiments inflammation in intestines of gf mice that received serum from cv mice during reperfusion injury was associated with reduced anxa-1 and gilz expression suggesting that the hypo- responsive state of gf hosts is lost in the presence of circulating natural abs.

it is possible that igg deposition during ir injury in serum-treated gf mice and the consequent complement andor fcr receptor activation could inhibit gr-mediated anxa- 1 transcription in a manner resembling the phenomenon described as inflammation-induced glucocorticoid resistance by other in- vestigators 51 52. therefore the mechanisms of anxa-1 and il-10 downmodulation in serum-treated gf mice remain to be evaluated.serum of cvn mice was also capable of restoring inflamma- tory responsiveness in gf mice.

in previous studies we showed that injection of pattern recognition receptor ligands such as lps rendered gf mice transiently responsive to inflammatory triggers such as reperfusion injury lps-induced endotoxemia carrageenan-induced hypernociception and pulmonary infection by k. pneumoniae 7 32. hence 48 h after injection of lps into gf mice they responded to inflammatory triggers in a way that was similar to cv mice submitted to the same stimuli but this was not the case for gf animals injected with the tlr4 agonist 96 h earlier.

