in addition mycotoxins decreased porcine growth performance immune function and reproductive performance 2. moreover this well- known xenobiotic is capable to severely damage intestinal health by disrupting intestinal barrier increasing intestinalpermeability inducing inflammatory responses to human intestinal epithelial cells iecs and intensifying the systemic inflammation 3. actually mycotoxins rarely reach the distal small intestine and the colon thus the proximal parts of the small intestine is the most prominent site of the absorption of mycotoxins and also the major site of antiseptics to act on 4. however the distal intestine will also be injured by the basolateral parts of enterocytes after the portal and systemic circulation 5.it is worth to pay attention that enterocytes exposed to mycotoxins in gut lumen are particularly susceptibleto the contamination of mycotoxins.

the abundance of occludin and zo-1 had no difference in each group of both jejunal and ileal mucosa p  0.05 data not shown.dmf altered the intestinal bacterial richness and diversity in digestato further study the mechanism of dietary anti- mildew technologies on improved intestinal mucosal morphology and permeability the intestinal bacterialfigure 1 evaluation of dmf and the traditional anti-mildew method as well as the effect of dmf on growth performance of balbc mice.

therefore the increased diversity in the intestinal microbiota by dmf is most likely contributed to the improvement of growth performance and the mucosal immune system in intestine 33.what is crucial the anti-fungal treatments have been found to improve the intestinal bacterial communities which might help to reveal the mechanism that improved the growth performance and intestinal barrier functionof anti-mildew treatments.

specifically we tentatively put forward that fungicides particularly dmf can decrease the oxidative stress and inflammatory responses by modulating the intestinal ecology through regulating the absorption of nutrition shitting the intestinal microbiota and enhancing theexpression of tight junction proteins to improve the intestinal barrier function.

the most significantly decreased mycotoxin was afb1 differences among each group were markedly observed p  0.05. as to fb1 dmf still showed the best detoxification effect p 0.05. however a significant decrease of zea only existed in the traditional control tc group when compared to the negative control nc group p  0.05 while the dmf treatment had unmarked effect p  0.05 figure 1a.dmf improved the growth performancedmf significantly improved the final body weight fbw p  0.05 with a non-different initial body weight ibw p  0.05. meanwhile the increased level of the dmf group was larger than the tc group when compared with the nc one figure 1b.

in the tc treatment the bacteria richness in ileum was similar to the control group but a significant decreasing was detected both in the jejunum and colon.the shannon index analysis table 1 indicated that in the tc treatment the shannon index was always the lowest no matter compared to the dmf or the nc one.

representative photos from two independent experiments were shown c-d. values are means - se n  3. different superscript lowercase letters within each group means significantly different p  0.05. tc traditional control dmf dimethyl fumarate nc negative control.table 1 effects of dmf on bacterial communities' diversity in the jejunal ileal and colonic digesta 121sequences with similarity scores greater than or equal to 0.97 were clustered into an otu.2nc negative control tc traditional control dmf dimethyl fumarate otu operational taxonomic unit.such as the colon the shannon index after dmf treatment was similar to both control groups.jejunal bacteria community structurejejunal bacterial community of three groups shared with 249 otus as shown in venn diagrams which accounted for 33.29 of the proportion figure 4a.

when treated with tc and dmf abundance of firmicutes significantly increased from 47.10 to 98.50 and 59.87 respectively while abundance of bacteroidetes decreased from 39.77 to 0.18 and 27.17. proportion of proteobacteria also tended to decrease in tc group from 12.62 to 1.06 however no significant decreasing was observed between proportions of dmf and nc group.

lactobacillaceae was significantly increased in tc group from 33.37 to 78.03 while the proportion of s24-7 dropped dramatically from 39.25 to 0.14 and 26.69 after applying tc and dmf separately.

nc negative control tc traditional control dmf dimethyl fumarate.still detect the decreased trend in the tc from 50.27 to 45.84 and the increased trend in the dmf group from 50.27 to 69.80.within these two dominating phyla there were some significant changes of each treatment at family level when compared to the nc group.

it has been applied to the sterilization of agricultural products which was known to be effective for killing pathogenic moulds that contaminated the surface of grain 10. these reported germicidal functions of tc 10 11 was paralleled with our research that three major mycotoxins such as afb1 ppb fb1ppm and zeappb were all significantly deceased in the tc group.

ourstudy also showed that the detoxification function of tc in zea was even much better than dmf indicating that there were some individual functions between tc and zea.

interestingly the present tc treatment was prefer to damage or destroy the bond at least in part thereby inhibiting the zea proliferation as well as alleviating toxic activity of zea 12. on the other hand a very marked difference of fbw was also showed with the non-significant initial ibw in our study which was due to the mechanism of tc.

it seemed contradictory to the effective anti-mildew capacity of tc as former reported to some extent but actually tc could inhibit mold growth and the toxin production only on the surface of grain.

interestingly significant differences in adfi p  0.05 were observed between the dmf and nc group even between the dmf and tc treatment figure 1b.dmf improved the intestinal mucosal morphologyto reveal the reason for the improved growth performance the jejunum figure 2a and ileum figure 2b mucosal morphology was observed and determined.

