twelve patients with advanced renal impairment four with ckd stage 4 and eight with ckd stage 5 were recruited to a cross-sectional study from the prevalent ckd population treated at the royal derby hospital derby uk from may 2012-may 2013. all patients recruited with ckd stage 5 were receiving treatment with peritoneal dialysis duration 5-27 months.notable exclusion criteria included any known chronic gi disease including irritable bowel syndrome a history of major gi surgery prescription of drugs affecting gi motility significant cardiovascular morbidity or diabetes.twenty-three healthy volunteers with normal renal function were recruited from the general population and were subject to the study imaging protocol as patient participants.

2. four ckd patients had gastric half-emptying times above 107 min which has been shown to be the upper limit of normal for a healthy population.21 two patients had more than 30 of their meal still present in the stomach 180 min after ingestion.both ckd patients and healthy subjects demonstrated a high degree of variability in all measurements of sbwc with fasting sbwc ranging from 10-104 ml in patients and 9-226 ml in healthy subjects.

3. sbwc was significantly lower in the ckd group at 90 135 and 180 min but not at 225 min table 2. cumulative sbwc was significantly lower in ckd patients 275 - 168 vs 440 - 223 ml p  0.03. reduced post-prandial sbwc was associated with a higher level of endo- toxin r  0.60 p  0.04 fig.

however ckd patients exhibited a sustained fallfigure 2 comparison of gastric-emptying in chronic kidney disease patients compared with healthy subjects after a test meal.in sbwc with values falling until 90 min with a delayed rise back to pre-prandial levels fig.

parametric data are expressed as mean - sd and non-parametric data as median interquar- tile range.ckd chronic kidney disease ecw extracellular water sbwc small bowel water content.figure 4 the relationship between post-prandial small bowel water content and endotoxemia in chronic kidney disease patients.table 3 comparison of general and gastrointestinal specific symptom scoring between ckd patients and a subgroup of healthy subjectsfigure 3 fasting and post-prandial intraluminal small bowel water con- tent in chronic kidney disease patients compared with healthy subjects.

further study is required to assess the factors that contribute to this dysfunction in a wider ckd population.introductionthe complex relationship between the gastrointestinal gi tract and complications of chronic kidney disease ckd has been increasingly recognized over the past few years.

animal models of chronic uremia have shown that the dysfunction observed with the defensive colonic barrier is mirrored in both the gastric and ileal mucosadespite being relatively sterile6 although bacterial colonization is a feature of advancing ckd.7 studies have consistently demon- strated abnormal upper gi motility in those with renal impairment which appears to worsen with advancing ckd stage.8-10 drug absorption and elimination have been shown to be abnormal within the small bowel which has been proposed to be linked to accumulation of inflammatory cytokines uremic toxins and the effects of excess parathyroid hormone.1112 abnormal small bowel digestive secretion has also been documented in several studies.1314 combined these abnormalities represent a dysfunc- tional phenotype specific to ckd which affects a significant proportion of the gi tract beyond colonic dysbiosis.

this present study was designed to comprehensively describe upper gi function in those with advanced renal impairment.methods thirty-five non-diabetic subjects 12 ckd stage 45 patients 23 healthy con- trols underwent detailed gi magnetic resonance imaging mri in both fasted and fed states.

the patient group exhibited evidence of increased arterial stiffness with higher pulse-wave velocity 9.13 - 1.6 ms vs 7.03 - 1.3 ms p  0.008. however assessment of fluid status demonstrated no objective evidence of significant overhydration ecw 16.0 - 3.3 l vs 16.3 - 2.6 l p  0.84 and blood pressure was relatively well controlled mean arterial pressure map97.1 - 17.0 vs 92.3 - 13.2 mmhg p  0.73. endotoxemia was universal in ckd patients and absent in healthy subjects 0.19- 0.04euml vs  0.10euml p  0.001.gastro-intestinal assessment.

however fasting sbwc tended to be lower in ckd patients 53 - 48 ml vs 83 - 63 ml p  0.16. healthy volunteers exhibited a normal post-prandial response17 with sbwc initially falling sharply after ingestion of food then gradually rising from 45 min to a plateau approximately 135 min after the meal.

4 but not with age creatinine symptom scores arterial stiffness or markers of hypervolemia ecw systolic blood pressure.table 2 summary of major fasting and post-prandial findings in ckd patients and healthy subjectssbwc 180 min ml36 - 2278 - 420.001sbwc 225 min ml70 - 4677 - 550.67gastric half emptyingtime min96 - 3274 - 270.04symptom scores.

however fasting and post-prandial sbwc were not significantly associated with gsrs anxiety depression or physical healthy symptom scores.discussionthis study is the first to examine dynamic small bowel function in ckd patients.

the sustained decrease and delayed rise in sbwc in ckd patients could be partially explained by delayed gastric emptying as less volume transits into the small bowel as is absorbed or passes into the colon.

at these times digestive secretion and water absorption are the major factors determining sbwc suggesting that there is abnormal digestive function in the small bowel in ckd patients.renal impairment is well known to disrupt intestinal homeosta- sis in the large bowel through alteration in the composition of gut microflora direct influence of uremia on the enterocyte and the intra-luminal production of uremic toxins.22 however small intestinal digestive dysfunction in patients with kidney disease has not previously been identified.

this will include broadening the populations studied to include other mo- dalities of renal replacement therapy and earlier stage ckd.conclusionin conclusion this pilot study demonstrates that small bowel digestive function is markedly abnormal in a population of ckd patients and is symptomatically important.

