outside the enterohepa- tic circulation bile acids reach micromolar concentrations in the systemic circulation that fluctuate upon meal intake  .the presence of bile acids in the systemic circulation and the fact that bile acids are able to induce specific signaling via dedicated bile acid receptors has established bile acids as hor- mone-like signaling molecules at the crossroad between food sensing and metabolism .

the enzyme cholesterol 7 a-hydroxylase cyp7a1 is a key enzyme in bile acid synthesis and converts cholesterol to the bile acid-precursor 7a-hydroxycholesterol.subsequent conversions and conjugation results in the generation of the primary bile acids che- nodeoxycholic acid cdca and cholic acid ca .

glycine- and taurine-conjugated bile acids enter the gut where the microbiota deconjugatecompeting interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.and metabolize primary bile acids to secondary bile acids lithocholic acid lca and deoxycholic acid dca.

we observed that bile acids predominantly the unconjugated bile acids only induce clear parp1 cleavage at very high concentrations of 1 mm panel a and b of .we then performed our screening experiment in which interferon ifn-g mrna expres- sion was determined in jurkat t cells in response to 10 mm bile acid a concentration that does not affect cell viability.

in agreement with the findings on ifng we observed that lca also substantially inhibited il-2 gene expression upon screening several bile acid species panel c of .lca inhibits ifng gene expression in jurkat t cells a cell viability of jurkat t cells measured by flowcytometry analysis and expressed as percentage of control in response to incubation with unconjugated bile acids and b taurine-conjugated bile acids for 24 hours.

in the current study we screened common bile acid species to investigate the potency of bile acids with regard to their ability to affect adaptive immune cell responses to uncover novel signaling roles of bile acids.

it is however very well possible that these kinases are regulatedby activation of the vdr by lca as the vdr analogue eb1089 gives a similar phosphoryla- tion profile in b lymphocytes .although some studies revealed pro-inflammatory effects of bile acids in immune responses   far most evidence points to inhibition of innate immune responses by bile acids and the bile acid-receptor tgr5   -.

in humans cholecystokinin induces post- prandial bile acid release from the liver into the intestine where bile acids facilitate the uptake of lipids.

the synthesis and enterohepatic circulation of bile acids is mainly regu- lated by the farnesoid x receptor fxr a nuclear bile acid receptor .

since adaptive immunity and th cells play a role in these diseases   we aimed to identify a potential direct link between bile acids and th cells.in the current study we screened the most common bile acid species for their ability to affect th cell inflammation.

our findings unveil a yet unrecognized bile acid-adaptive immunity axis that potentially has major implications for drug and food strategies that impact on bile acid metabolism.materials and methodscd4 th cell isolation and cell cultureprimary human cd4 th cells were purified from peripheral blood mononuclear cells using the cd4 t-cell isolation kit ii miltenyi biotec california together with ls columns miltenyi biotec.

first it was investigated whether the bile acids were not toxic to t cells as bile acids are often associ- ated with cytotoxicity .

interestingly out of all conjugated and unconjugated bile acid species tested we identified unconjugated lca as the only bile acid species that significantly inhibited ifng mrna expression .

it however remains to be investigated whether lca induces t cell senescence.we profiled the bile acid sensor in th cells and observed that multiple bile acid receptors are expressed in th cells notably tgr5 fpr s1pr2 pxr and vdr.

this is the first time that bile acids are shown to directly impact on adaptive immune re- sponses an unrecognized action that further expands the hormone-like signaling power of bile acids.

