The following media and incubation conditions were used a plate count agar PCA Britania for total aerobic bacteria 37 C 48 h b lauryl sulfate broth Britania coliforms by the technique of MPN Most Probable Number  30 C 48 h and confirmed in bile lactose broth 2 brilliant green incubated for 24-48 h c in EC broth Britania 45 C 48 h for coliforms growing at 45 C generally associated with enterohemorragic E. coli d Baird Parker agar medium BP Britania supplemented with egg yolk emulsion and kalium tellurite 20  37 C 72 h for Coagulase-positive staphylococci CPS e H  L agar medium Britania for fungi and yeasts 28 C 7 days f Pre-enrichment broths Selenite Cysteine and bright green Tetrathionate 43 C 24 hand Bismuth sulfite agar medium bright green agar and Salmonella Shigella SS agar 35 C 48 h .

This work is among the few studies focused on the development of a starter culture for goat-meat-based sausages that could be an efficient alternative to improve the production process while preserving typicity and guaranteeing the quality and safety of the final product.Ongoing studies will evaluate the hygienic and sensory quality of goat meat fermented sausages madewith the selected LAB in combination with a selected GCC.Finally this work constitutes an important contribution for boosting regional meat industries by creating new added-value fermented products based on meat from culled goats and creating other choices for marketing.Supplementary Materials The following are available online at  Table S1 Growth and acidification ability of Lactobacillus isolates in the goat meat model system MMS at 30 C after 24 h.Acknowledgments This research was supported by funds from CICyT-UNSE CIUNT26D429 SECyT PICT2011 0175 and CONICET PIP2015-0530.Author Contributions Miriam T. Nediani Soledad Lopez Alzogaray and Silvina Fadda conceived and designed the experiments Miriam T. Nediani Luis Garcia and Lucila Saavedra performed the experiments Miriam T. Nediani Silvina Fadda Sandra Martinez and Soledad Lopez Alzogaray analyzed the data Sandra Martinez Soledad Lopez Alzogaray and Silvina Fadda contributed reagentsmaterialsanalysis tools Miriam T. Nediani Silvina Fadda Soledad LopezAlzogaray and Lucila Saavedra wrote the paper.Conflicts of Interest The authors declare no conflict of interest.ReferencesMadruga M.S.

L. sakei strains are proposed as optimal candidates to improve the production of fermented goat meat sausages creating a new added-value fermented product.Keywords goat meat meat fermentation fermented sausages lactic acid bacteria starter cultures food quality food safetyIntroductionGoat meat represents an important part of food consumption and is one of the main components of several traditional dishes in the Mediterranean diet .

Before experimental use all LAB strains were recovered in MRS broth incubated at 30 C and activated by twice inoculation in MRS broth.Phenotypic and Technological Characterization of LABThe Gram-positive catalase-negative no motile non-spore forming indole and nitrate negative isolates were considered LAB and subjected to preliminary identification by traditional phenotypic methods Growth at 15 and 45 C in MRS broth growth in MRS with 4 and 10 NaCl incubation at 30 C for 48 h were determined as physiological traits .

The pH values achieved in both formulations were similar to fermented sausages from France Spain and Italy .Regarding aw evolution the lowest value was also achieved in sausages from formulation A 0.82 some authors found at the end of maturation aw  0.83  while  found higher values in low-acid fermented sausages aw 0.93.Table 1.

The medium was distributed into plates and 10 uL of each culture were spread onto agar plates incubated at 30 C for 48 h. The appearance of a clear zone around the colonies was considered as an indicator for pork-fat lipolysis.

On this basis the aims of this study were i to produce artisanal goat meat fermented sausages ii to evaluate their quality and safety and iii to isolate identify and characterize autochthonous Lactobacillus strains from the obtained fermented products.

Means with common letter are not significantly different P 0.05 A 80 goat meat 0 pork meat B 40 goat meat40 pork meat L brightness 0 to 100 a redness b yellowness C Chroma saturation and H Hue angle tone CIE 1976.Microbial AnalysisThe content of total microorganisms developing in fermented sausages along the ripening was analyzed by microbial count in selective cultures media Table .

45 C Coliforms at 45 S. aureus Staphylococcus aureus H  L Yeasts and molds.Microorganisms with Technological ImportanceThe evolution of LAB and GCC during the ripening of spontaneously fermented sausages made with the two different formulations A B is depicted in Table .

This constitutes an interesting feature in view of the formulation of starter cultures ensuring the safety of the fermented product.Adaption to Meat EnvironmentsAll LAB strains were able to growth optimally in the meat model system MMS after 24 h at 30 C achieving increases higher than 3 log units Table S1.

