the immunomodulatory function of hbd-1 is attributed to its chemotactic attraction for immature dendritic cells and mem- ory t cells .

these data imply that transcriptional regula- tion of defb1 in vk2e6e7 cells is associated with epige- netic mechanisms involving both dna methylation and his- tone deacetylation.contrasting changes in defb1 expressionwere observed in vaginal keratinocytes in response to two different lactobacillus spp.to investigate changes in defb1 expression in vk2e6e7 cells following exposure to either l. gasseri or l. reuteri defb1 mrna and hbd-1 protein levels were assessed.

after normalization of defb1 expression by use of the hprt1 mrna level the relative expression level of defb1 in lactobacilli-treated cells relative to that in untreated control cells was calculated.

vk2e6e7 cells were stained with anti-hbd-1 antibody green and counterstained with propidium iodide red for dnaspecific regions within the non-cpg island promoter of defb1 were affected by dna methylationto identify the site-specific cpg dinucleotides that are important for defb1 expression in the dac-treated vk2e6e7 cells we performed bisulfite sequencing of a region spanning 1 kb upstream from the tss of the non-cpg island promoter of defb1 fig.

the red boxes highlight the promoter regions spanning the key cpg loci that are important for the difference in the defb1 expression in dac-treated vk2 e6e7 cells compared to untreated control cellsadditionally the methylation profile of these five cpg sites within the defb1 promoter region indicated a subtle difference in the vk2e6e7 cells exposed tol.

here we showed that both dna methylation and histone modifications were associated with expression of the defb1 gene which encodes the antimicrobial peptide human b-defensin-1 in vaginal keratinocyte vk2e6e7 cells.

we in- vestigated whether exposure to lactobacillus gasseri and lactobacillus reuteri would trigger the epigenetic modulation of defb1 expression in vk2e6e7 cells in a bacterial species- dependent manner.

while enhanced expression of defb1 was observed when vk2e6e7 cells were exposed to l. gasseri treatment with l. reuteri resulted in reduced defb1 expression.

however whether secretion of antimicro- bial peptides such as defensins from vaginal epithelial cells is affected by exposure to lactobacillus spp.

recently we have reported that site-specific cpg dinucleotides are respon- sible for dna methylation-mediated regulation of defb1 expression in prostate cancer cells .

moreover epigenetic regulation of hbd-2 expression in response to oral bacteria has been found in gingival epithelial cells .

additionally several amp genes encoding hbd-2 hbd-3 and ll37 were induced by histone deacetylase hdac inhibition in human colonic epithelial cells upon challenge with escherichia coli .

vk2e6e7 cells were grown in keratinocyte serum free medium invitrogen carlsbad ca usa and maintained at 37 degc in a humidified incubator at 5 co2.

we treated the vk2e6e7 cells with 2'- deoxy-5-azacytidine dac for 72 h and with trichostatin a tsa for 24 h. each treatment with dac or tsa was per- formed in at least triplicate.

the optical densities of the bacterial cultures at 600 nm in the logarithmic growth phase were measured and vk2e6e7 cells were then exposed to 108 cfuml of either l. gasseri or l. reuteri for 48 h. each bacterial exposure was performed in at least triplicate.quantitative rt-pcrtotal rna was isolated from the cell lines using the rneasy mini kit qiagen hilden germany following the manufac- turer's instructions.

