Conse- quently the specific BAM-degradation rate mg BAMMSH1-GFP cellmin of MSH1-GFP was higher in the presence of the SFC compared to MSH1-GFP alone 3- and 2-fold in systems fed with 1 and 1000 mgL BAM respectively.Biofilm occupation and BAM-degradation activity of strain MSH1-GFP in the presence of an SFC invasion modeIn the invasion approach the SFC was allowed to colonize the flow channel for 20 days in advance to MSH1-GFP inoculation.

MSH1 was inoculated simultaneously with the SFC co-colonization mode or after the SFC formed a biofilm invasion mode.

A green fluorescent protein GFP-labeled variant of strain MSH1 MSH1-GFP was inoculated in flow cells either si- multaneously with an SFC originating from a DWTP or after the SFC had formed a biofilm on the glass support of the flow cell Figure  allowing to examine co-colonization and invasion re-Figure 1.

Schematic overview of the biofilm experiments performed in this study either according to the co-colonization mode MSH1-GFP inoculated simultane- ously with the SFC or invasion mode MSH1-GFP inoculated in flow channels already occupied by the SFC biofilm.spectively.

When co-colonization was assessed nine flow chan- nels were inoculated with a mixture of SFC and MSH1-GFP 2 x 107 cells eachchannel nine flow channels with the SFC 2 x 107 cellschannel and nine flow channels with MSH1-GFP 2 x 107 cellschannel.

CLSM analysis of control channels inoculated with the SFC only showed that the SFC formed a biofilm covering the entire surface of the flow channel when irrigated with 1000 mgL BAM while when fed with 1 mgL BAM and no BAM only small microcolonies developed Figure .

Residual BAM in the effluent expressed as the percentage of the effluent concentration of the abiotic control of flow channels fed with either 1 mgL BAM top or 1000 mgL BAM bottom inoculated according to the co-colonization mode left or the invasion mode right channels inoculated with the SFC black diamonds channels inoculated with the combination SFC and MSH1-GFP red circle and systems inoculated with only MSH1-GFP green square.

A plausible expla- nation of this unexpected higher SFC biomass in flow channels irrigated with 1000 mgL BAM is growth of the SFC on organic car- bon impurities in the BAM solution purity of used BAM was 95 that will increase in content with increasing BAM concentration.

In systems inoculated with MSH1-GFP combined with the SFC only MSH1-GFP cells expressing GFP were accounted as MSH1-GFP cells since we could not discriminate between SFC cells and MSH1-GFP cells not expressing GFP.

In channels fed with no BAM and 1 mgL BAM the SFC and MSH1-GFP formed separated microcolonies and overallthe biofilm morphology resembled this of biofilms that de- veloped in channels inoculated with the SFC alone.

