Further research in this area may lead to strategies for the prevention of neurological disorders.Metabolic diseases cardiovascular disease and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLDBecause the findings that bacterial metabolism of phos- phatidylcholine and L-carnitine lead to cardiovascular disease through production of trimethylamine and its subsequent conversion to trimethylamine N-oxide TMAO in the liver 52 53 a number of additional metabolites have been identified that are associated with cardiovascular as well as non-alco- holic fatty liver disease NAFLD.2 Using metabolomic anal- ysis over 15 microbial metabolites were identified as predic- tors of coronary heart disease as well as their associated microbial source 54.

U.S.A. 106 3698 -3703Claus S. P. Tsang T. M. Wang Y. Cloarec O. Skordi E. Martin F.-P. Rezzi S. Ross A. Kochhar S. Holmes E. and Nicholson J. K. 2008 Systemic multicompartmental effects of the gut microbiome on mouse metabolic phenotypes.

The goal of this review is to briefly discuss the functional capacity of the microbiome chal- lenges associated with multi-omic technologies and recent advances in identifying microbial metabolites that have been directly linked to gastrointestinal and peripheral diseases.Gut microbial ecosystemThe gut microbiota consists of over 10 trillion microbial cells and is a primary source of thousands of small molecules and other bioactive compounds that can trigger both host metabolic and immune pathways.

6 546 -551Zhang L. S. and Davies S. S. 2016 Microbial metabolism of dietary components to bioactive metabolites opportunities for new therapeutic interventions.

22598 - 605Diaz Heijtz R. Wang S. Anuar F. Qian Y. Bjorkholm B. Samuelsson A. Hibberd M. L. Forssberg H. and Pettersson S. 2011 Normal gut microbiota modulates brain development and behavior.

Taken together fatty liver disease appears to be associated with altered metabolites that are either produced or influenced by gut microbes.ConclusionAltogether advances in the fields of metabolomics and microbiome analyses have resulted in the newly identified func- tional roles of several metabolites such as SCFAs and trypto- phan derivatives.

PLoS ONE 9 e87419Caspi R. Foerster H. Fulcher C. A. Kaipa P. Krummenacker M. La- tendresse M. Paley S. Rhee S. Y. Shearer A. G. Tissier C. Walk T. C. Zhang P. and Karp P. D. 2008 The MetaCyc Database of metabolic pathways and enzymes and the BioCyc collection of PathwayGenome Databases.

A. Bisson W. H. Lahoti T. S. Gowda K. Amin S. G. Patterson A. D. and Perdew G. H. 2015 Adaptation of the human aryl hydrocarbon receptor to sense microbiota-derived indoles.

Given the vast array of newly gained knowledge in the field it is likely that the mechanistic role of gut microbes and their microbial metabolites underlying several disease states will be discovered.

However the reference genome database used is a limiting factor if it does not accurately reflect gene functions for the microbial community of interest partic- ularly in the case of rare members of the gut microbial commu- nity 3.To gain more accurate insights into microbial community gene function high throughput shotgun metagenomic se- quencing has become an important tool as it avoids many biases introduced by amplicon sequencing due to its untargeted nature.

