soybeanintroductionthe use of microbial inoculants alori et al.

alp is responsible for phosphorus acquisition by plants since its presence in the vacuoles of highly developed arbuscules was revealed by ultracytochemical studies abdel-fattah et al.

the overexpression of potassi- um transporter protein in plant has been stated in the roots of lotus japonicas colonized with am fungi berruti et al.

metaanalysis investigations which re- cently emphasized on the function of am interaction in ac- quisition of micronutrients by plants have been reported lehmann et al.

for instance am in- teraction positively impacted zn levels in different agricultural crops grown under different environmental conditions lehmann et al.

besides high phosphorus concentration nitrate can also neg- atively affect am fungal colonization while magnesium iron and calcium ions including sulfate do not have negative im- pacts nouri et al.

berruti et al.

.the production and application of microbial fertilizers is gaining global increase owing to the negative impacts of over use or improper usage of chemical-based fertilizer and the increased awareness about the association between rhizo- sphere microorganisms and plants babalola et al.

babalola  hou and babalola  alori et al.

therefore what is rhizospherethe rhizospherethe rhizosphere which is an ecological niche for a great num- ber of invertebrates and microorganisms is the thin layer of soil close to the root and is affected by the roots of plants philippot et al.

rhizosphere microorganisms can have direct or indirect impacts on plant biodiversity in an ecosystem.many organisms are involved in these processes resulting in myriads of interactions among plants symbionts and antagonists within below and above ground environment babalola  behie et al.

bever et al.

from ecological and agricultural perspective this symbiotic interaction involving fungi is the most significant mutualism in terrestrial environment tisserant et al.

dias et al.

even with this it is hard to give a generalized picture of the rhizosphere microbiota due to huge disparity between various studies which may have re- sulted from biological variation and practical facts such as sampling of the soil in the root region philippot et al.

