high serum iga concentration p  0.001 was reached 4 weeks after the first immunization .in concordance with the expanded gc found in galt and in the spleen higher percentages of b lymphocytes were found in the f4 group in the blood 11.8 vs. 7.8  and in the spleen 15.75 vs. 9.4  p  0.05.moreover histological observations on the spleen corresponded well with the flow cytometry results.ig productionin the f4 group total igy serum levels were high for all assays p  0.001 high total igy serum levels were reached at 2 weeks p  0.05 5 weeks p  0.001 and 7 weeks p  0.05 after thefirst immunization while igy levels in the control groups were kept to a minimum .in the yolk total igy serum levels were already high after the first immunization in the f4 group reached a peak by 3 weeksp  0.001 a week after the first serum peak and they had clearly increased by 6 weeks p  0.001 a week after the second serum peak from where they increased until the end of the research .anti e. coli f4-igy levels in the serum remained high throughout the assay p  0.001. some specific igy levels increased significantly after the first immunization in the f4 group high total anti-e. coli f4- igy levels were reached at 3 weeks p  0.05 5 weeks p  0.001 and 8 weeks p  0.05 after the first immunization .in the yolk anti-e. coli f4-igy levels were hugely p  0.001in the f4 group throughout the assay.

as expected an increment in lymphocyte number in the lamina propria was detected in the f4 group.in concordance with the numerous plasmatic cells located near to the epithelial cells in the villi of f4 group samples the levels of secreted iga were also significantly higher 1624 - 131 ngmlp  0.001 in the f4 than the control group 230 - 41 ngml.furthermore average serum iga concentration was signifi- cantly higher p  0.05 in the f4 group than the control grouptable 1  germinal center area size mm2 in gut-associated lymphoid tissue and in the spleen of laying hens immunized with escherichia coli f4 bacterin.the comparison was between groups f4 and control into the same organ p  0.05 and p  0.001.means that the difference between groups was significant.

furthermore numerous lymphocytes  and plasmatic cells ig a-producing cells located near to epithelial cells were found in the apical border villi in the f4 group not shown.

p-values  0.05 were consid- ered statistically significant p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001. initially anova was used followed by tukey's test.resultsgalt and spleen response in immunized hensgc in galt and in the spleen were greater in the f4 group than in the control group .

interestingly in galt the immunization triggered a greater activation in peyer's patches a fivefold increase p  0.001 as compared to thecontrol group  and in esophageal tonsils two-fold increase p  0.001 in the f4 group .in addition immunization triggered cecal and pyloric tonsil activation increased 10-fold p  0.05 in the f4 group as compared to the control group.

activated b lymphocytes interacted with absorptive cells immune cells and microbiota in the gut producing signals that were translated into a powerfulperalta mf magnoli a alustiza f nilson a miazzo r and vivas a 2017 gut-associated lymphoid tissue a key tissue inside the mucosal immune system of hens immunized with escherichia coli f4.front.

8568. doi abbreviations ab antibody ag antigen balt bronchial-associated lymphoid tissue cmf tamponed saline solution without ca and mg cfu colony forming unity dcs dendritic cells elisa enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay e. coli escherichia coli fitc fluorescein isothiocyanate galt gut-associated lymphoid tissue gc germinal center he hematoxylin-eosin ir immune response ig immunoglobulin iga immunoglobulin a ig g immunoglobulin g igy immunoglobulin y malt mucosae-associated lymphoid tissue mis mucosal immune system nalt nasopharyngeal lymphoid tissue pbs phosphate buffered saline rpmi roswell park memory institute medium tmb 3 30 5 50-tetramethylbenzidine wsf water-soluble fraction.physical defense by producing a greater volume of mucin from an increased number of goblet cells.

this is closely related to tissue turnover in the crypt region and could be induced before bacterin immunization through dif- ferent bioactive molecules after the interaction between epithelial cells microbiota and immunological cells to conserve mucosal homeostasis     .

moreover this increased number of lymphocytes inside the lamina propria of the ileum villi in the f4 group was consistent with the increased number of plasmatic cells registered between epithelial cells near the top of the villi data not shown.

furthermore immunization triggered a greater activation in the spleen gc 110 p  0.001 in the f4 group .in ileum tissue sections increased villi height p  0.05 and their dependent variables area and perimeter of villi were foundin the f4 group.

furthermore high anti-e. coli f4-igy levels were reached at 3 weeks p  0.001 and 6 weeks p  0.001 after the first immunization.

there is a constant migration of ag-primed immune cells from inductive to effector sites.

the interplay between micro- biota intestinal epithelium and the innate and adaptive immune cells is crucial for understanding homeostasis as it improves the dominance of regulatory networks that prevent inflammation or immune-mediated diseases.

mononuclear cells were separated from the whole blood by using density gradient separation with histopaque-1077 sigma-aldrich st. louis usa according to a previously established protocol .

the resulting buffy coat of white cells above the erythrocytes was collected and transferred to a fresh tube.

