these thresholds produced a list of 112 candidate mucus-specific fitness genes 171glucose-specific fitness genes and 28 genes that appeared to be important for expec growth in both types of media data set s1.several genes of note were found to be fitness candidates in both the mucus and glucose broth likely due to their essentiality for microaerobiosis a feature that both growth conditions had in common.

consequently it is feasible that some of the fitness genes that were highlighted by the tn-seq experiment also contribute to expec fitness within the genitourinary tract.one of the primary goals of our tn-seq screen was to identify genes that are important for expec colonization of the gut by first defining loci that are critical for expec growth in mucus.

though the fluctuating fitness levels of competing strains due to spontaneous secondary mutations may obscure subtle mutant defects our gut colo- nization model has proven useful for identifying mutants with more robust phenotypes that may arguably be of greater relevance for understanding expec fitness within the intestinal tract  .cumulatively our data indicate that expec growth in mucus involves many gene products that are directly or indirectly associated with fatty acid degradation but these genes are not necessarily critical for expec colonization of the gut.

our tn-seq screen highlighted 112 mucus-specific candidate fitness genes along with 171 glucose-specific candidate fitness genes and 28 genes that seemed to promote expec growth and survival in both types of broth  see also data set s1 in the supplemental material.

many of these mucus-specific fitness genes are linked with the metabolism of fatty acids and one gene which encodes the rhomboid protease glpg was found to promote expec survival within the mouse intestinal tract in the presence of the intact natural microbiota.resultsa tn-seq screen for expec genes that are important for growth on intestinal mucus uncovers a role for beta-oxidation.

five other genes encoding ndh-1 components nuoc nuoi nuoj nuom and nuon were candidate fitness genes in glucose broth but few or no transposon insertions within these genes were detected following growth in the mucus broth making it difficult to assess their importance in that medium.

multiple genes that contribute to expec fitness in mucus broth were identified with genes that are directly or indirectly associated with fatty acid beta- oxidation pathways being especially important.

a better understanding of glpg and other bacterial factors that promote expec growth and survival in the gut will provide a broader view of the expec life cycle and may aid the development of new approaches to target expec before it can disseminate into extraintestinal niches.materials and methodscreation of bacterial strains and plasmids.

there appears to be an association between the ability of a strain to grow in vitro in cecal mucus and the ability of that strain to colonize the mouse gut  although this is not always a perfect correlation .to better understand how expec colonizes the gut we set out to document the genes that are critical for growth in mucus in vitro by utilizing transposon sequencing tn-seq a high-throughput method for determining the contribution of each bacterial locus to fitness under a given condition .

this work reveals a novel bio- logical role for a rhomboid protease and highlights new avenues for defining mech- anisms by which expec strains colonize the mammalian gastrointestinal tract.keywords expec upec beta-oxidation fatty acids glycerol degradation gut intestinal mucus urinary tract infection uropathogenicxtraintestinal pathogenic escherichia coli expec strains are a group of strains that can colonize the mammalian gut without causing any overt pathology.

the dfadl dfbp and dglpg mutants grew similarly to the wt strain when their respective genes or operons were restored on a plasmid  further solidifying the roles of these genes in promoting f11 growth in mucus broth.disruptions to the beta-oxidation pathway lead to reduced growth on minimal medium plates supplemented with the lcfa oleate .

a screen using transposon sequencing tn-seq was performed to search for genes within expec isolate f11 that are important for growth in intestinal mucus which is thought to be a major source of nutrients for e. coli in the gut.

four genes were chosen from the tn-seq mucus-specific candidate fitness gene list disrupted and competed against the wt during microaerobic growth in m9-glucose broth a or m9-mucus broth b. wt strain f11 and each mutant strain were mixed 11 and grown microaerobically for 24 h in the indicated medium and then subcultured 1100 and grown for another 24 h. the titers in the cultures were determined at both the 24- and 48-h time points.

this result is in line with previous findings showing that genes that are transcriptionally induced in e. coli during growth on mucus in vitro are not necessarily required for growth within the mouse intestinal tract .

of note in these assays the total expec levels wt and mutant remained fairly steady at 106 cfug feces at each time point examined even when the ci values were highly variable.to assess if the defects observed with the dglpg mutant were due to polar effects on glpr as is the case during growth in mucus broth and on oleate plates we also competed f11 dglpr against the wt strain in our gut colonization assay .

