moreover cropping regimes significantly altered fungal communities in rhizosphere soil and root endosphere explaining more than 21 and 25 of the variance respectively.furthermore we analyzed the effect of cropping regimes on bacterial and fungal communities in each plant compartment table 5. we found crop species-specific and plant compartment-specific responses of fungal and bacterial communities toward the cropping regimes.

moreover similar patterns of fungal species were observed for rhizosphere and bulk soil as well as for root endosphere figure 4. however a direct comparison between endosphere and soil communities should be treated with caution as two different dna extraction methods were used for endophyte and soil communities.cropping regime influenced microbial diversity and richnesswe compared bacterial as well as fungal richness number of observed otus diversity represented by the shannon index h' and the number of effective species between the four cropping regimes.

soil moisture varied between 13.7 and 38.4 table s1 being significantly lower in bulk soil samples of wm than in bulk soil samples of fbm table 2. the cn ratio in bulk soil samples of the cropping regime mi was significantly higher compared to the other cropping regimes.

distinct clustering with respect to cropping regimes was observed for bacterial and fungal communities only in few plant compartments figures 5 6. for example fungal communities in bulk soil samples from the cropping regimes fbm and wm differed figure 5. in addition bacterial leaf endophytesof monocropped faba bean and wheat grown under mi formed distinct clusters figure 6. we further analyzed the influence of cropping regimes on microbial community profiles by permanova.

2015. as consequence a better understanding of the plant microbiome and its responses to cropping regimes is needed.bacterial and fungal taxa associated with cropping regimes crop species and plant compartmentas we found different responses of abundant fungal and bacterial taxa to cropping regimes we performed a multipattern analysis to investigate which microorganism are significantly associated with those regimes table s10.

in addition they found that the abundance of bacterial community in soil was significantly and negatively related to soil cn ratio which is in contrast to our results.we speculate that the contrasting effects of cropping regimes on microbial diversity observed here and in other studies are related to differences in plant species root exudates plant age and soil type as these factors influence microbial diversity berg and smalla 2009 zhang et al.

leaf endophytes were not affected by cropping regime but bacterial and fungal community structures in bulk and rhizosphere soil as well as fungal community structures in roots.

2009.bacterial and fungal communities are dominated by a few phylathe response of bacterial and fungal communities of faba bean and wheat toward cropping regimes was assessed by illumina miseq sequencing targeting the bacterial 16s rrna gene and the fungal its region respectively.

cropping regimes significantly influenced fungal and bacterial communities in bulk soil of faba bean explaining approximately 25 and 34 of the variance in the dataset table 5. bacterial community structure in the wheat rhizosphere was significantly affected by cropping regime.

obtained results will further deepen our understanding of how cropping regimes influence the plant microbiome.materials and methodsexperimental designto examine the influence of cropping systems on the entire fungal and bacterial community in soil and endosphere we developed an experimental system to simulate monoculture and two intercropping settings in agriculture.

here intercropping showed a strong impact on these bacteria at anthesis but this effect was less pronounced at the seedling stage of the two crops.overall we found different responses of fungal and bacterial communities toward cropping regimes table 6. the effects of cropping regimes were altered by crop species as well as plant compartment and differed between fungal and bacterial communities.

effect of cropping regime on bacterial and fungal richness diversity and community structure in faba bean and wheat.bacteriafungifaba beanwheatfaba beanwheatmi and leaf endosphere samples of wheat under the cropping regimes wm and mi.we identified several bacterial and fungal taxa with plant growth-promoting potential such as burkholderia pseudomonas rhizobium c. subhashii and streptomyces bungoensis.

overall the results of the present study highlight that fungal as well as bacterial communities in different plant compartments should be analyzed in future studies.abundant microbial taxa differ between cropping regime plant species and plant compartmentwe further analyzed the abundances of the predominantfungal and bacterial taxonomic groups as we found that fungal and bacterial communities respond in a crop species- and plant compartment-dependent manner to cropping regime.

in addition the seeds were not surface-sterilized prior to planting.for monocultures 20 faba bean fbm or 80 wheat wm plants per container were sawn in rows figure 1. in multiple cropping systems 40 wheat and 10 faba bean plants per container were grown either in distinct rows row intercropping ri or without any distinct row arrangement mixed intercropping mi as defined by andrews and kassam 1976. we distinguished between cropping systems monoculture vs. multiple cropping systems and cropping regimes wm fbm mi and ri.

2009. in a recent study c. subhashii was repeatedly isolated from commercially available potting soil as well as from soil samples indicating that this yeast is a common soil fungus hilber-bodmer et al.

