pentosusmarketed olivesspanish style green olivesleuconostoc mesenteroidesspanish style green olivescandida boidiniicandida diddensiaecracked directly brined greendirectly brined green olivesblack conservolea olivesleccino olivesseasoned green table olivescracked directly brined green olivesdirectly brined green olivescandida oleophilacracked directly brined green olivescandida olivaedirectly brined black table olivescandida parapsilosisdirectly brined green table olivescandida quersitrusacracked directly brined greencandida silvaeblack conservolea olivescandida sorbosadirectly brined greencandida tropicalisdirectly brined green spanish stylecandida tartarivoranscellina di nardo olivesciteromyces matritensiscracked directly brined greentable 1. cont.table olive preparationsreferencecystofilobasidium capitatumblack conservolea olivesblack conservolea olivesdebaryomyces hanseniidebaryomyces ethcellsiicellina di nardo olivesblack conservolea oliveskalamata olivesleccino olivescracked directly spanish style green olives spanish style green olivesblack conservolea olivesissatchenkia occidentalisseasoned green table olivesmetschnikowia pulcherrimablack conservolea olivesdirectly brined black oliveswickerhamomyces anomalusblack conservolea olives directly brined green olivescellina di nardo olivesblack conservolea olives kalamata olivespichia galeiformisripe black olivescracked directly brined green olivesdirectly brined green olivespichia guilliermondiiblack conservolea olivespichia kluyveriblack conservolea olivespichia manshuricablack conservolea olivesblack conservolea olivesdirectly brine green olivespichia membranifacienscellina di nardo olivesleccino olives kalamata olivesrhodotorula glutinisprocessed black olivesrhodotorula graminisprocessed black olivesrhodotorula diobovatumblack conservolea olivesrhodotorula mucilaginosablack conservolea olivescracked directly brined green olivesprocessed black olivesseasoned green table olivesblack conservolea olivessaccharomyces cerevisiaedirectly brined green olivescracked directly brined green olivesleccino olives kalamata oliveszygowilliopsis californicablack conservolea oliveszygosaccharomyces mrakiileccino olivescracked directly brined greenhowever spontaneous fermentations have many disadvantages compared to fermentations with starter cultures as any deviations from the required conditions such as the growth of undesirablestrains and thereby metabolites can lead to an abnormal fermentation and a defective final product .

2016 7 1583.saxami g. karapetsas a. lamprianidou e. kotsianidis i. chlichlia a. tassou c. zoumpourlis a. galanis a. two potential probiotic lactobacillus strains isolated from olive microbiota exhibit adhesion and anti-proliferative effects in cancer cell lines.

apart from the microbiological aspects of table olive fermentation olive tree varieties could present different behaviors during brining because of the different fruit dimensions and physicochemical characteristics that would in turn affect the microbiota responsible for olive fermentation and influence the sensory profile of the final product .table 1. lactic acid bacteria and yeasts isolated from different table olive fermentation processing.lb.

there are specific in vitro tests for the determination of these characteristics as shown in table .table 2. desirable and undesirable characteristics of microorganisms used as starter cultures.propertiesdesirableundesirabletechnologicalprobioticfunctionalenzymatic activityability to survivegrow in different salt concentrationsability to survivegrow on high and low ph values ability to attach on olive epidermissurvive in conditions simulating the passage through gastrointestinal tractability to adhere and colonize the epithelial cells antimicrobial activity against pathogensability to aggregate with pathogensbio-assimilation of phenolic compounds such as oleuropeinproduction of vitamins antimicrobial activityesteraselipasecatalasephytasealkalineacid phosphataseb-glucosidaseproduction of co2 assimilation of lactic acid production of mycotoxins and biogenic aminesproteolytic and xylanolytic activityprobiotic potential of starter culturesthe use of strains previously isolated from table olives with probiotic and technological characteristics may lead to the production of a functional food which apart from its nutritional value provides a matrix for probiotic microorganisms.

conservolea olivesfermentation brines of naturally black cv.conservolea olivessurvival in simulated digestionsurvival in simulated digestiontechnological characteristics of starter culturesapart from their potential probiotic character microorganisms implicated in table olive fermentation are considered to have important technological characteristics that affect the process one way or another as described below.enhancement of sensory profileyeasts are known for their ability to produce different compounds such as ethanol glycerol higher alcohols esters and other volatiles which contribute decisively to the formation of flavor while maintaining the texture of the olive fruit during fermentation .biodegradation of phenolic compoundsoleuropein is the main phenolic compound of the olive fruit responsible for its bitter taste.

2005 22 117-124. de castro a. montano a. casado f.j. sanchez a.h. rejano l. utilization of enterococcus casselifavus and lactobacillus pentosus as starter cultures for spanish-style green olive fermentation.

1994 76 350-355.  sanchez a.h. rejano l. montano a. de castro a. utilization at high ph of starter cultures of lactobacilli for spanish-style green olive fermentation.

moreover another study has shown that another ureolytic human pathogen helicobacter pylori was inhibited by the presence of the probiotic strain lactobacillus casei .several studies have been undertaken in order to assess the probiotic potential of microorganisms related to table olive fermentation table .table 3. probiotic properties of lactic acid bacteria lab and yeast species isolated from table olives.strainsisolation sourceprobiotic properties amongreferenceslb.

plantarumtable olive preparationsreferencespanish style green olivesspanish style green olivesuntreated green olivesgreek style black oliveslb.

boulardii is the only yeast species recognized as safe.the ability of lab to colonize the surface of olives and the formation of biofilms during fermentation in combination with the microstructure of the olive surface that protects microorganisms during digestion establish new perspectives for the use of table olives not only as a nutritional fermented product but also as a probiotic carrier and hence a functional food with high added value -.

moreover studies have shown that the microbiota of fermented table olives exhibits specific probiotic properties and thus olives are considered to be good matrices to deliver probiotics to the host while at the same time being free of lactose and cholesterol .table olive fermentation occurs spontaneously by the microbiota of the olive without adding any starter culture.

lopez-lopez a. bautista-gallego j. garrido-fernandez a. lipolytic activity of the yeast species associated with the fermentationstorage phase of ripe olive processing.

querol a. bautista-gallego j. garrido-fernandez a. role of yeasts in table olive production.

2013 50 135-142. botta c. langerholc t. cencic a. cocolin l. in vitro selection and characterization of new probiotic candidates from table olive microbiota.

lavermicocca p. probiotic table olives microbial populations adhering on olive surface in fermentation sets inoculated with the probiotic strain lactobacillus paracasei impc2.1 in an industrial plant.

