evolve biosystems played no role in the design execution interpretation or publication of this study.lewis and millspage 2better-functioning gut barriers 3-6. bifidobacteria also appear to simultaneously enhance immune surveillance and reduce inflammation 6-9. infant-type bifidobacteria present during weaning may guide the immune system towards tolerance during the introduction of new foods and their associated antigens potentially influencing the development of allergic diseases 10-13. for these public health reasons among other motivations bifidobacterial levels have been studied in infants across the globe.interestingly it seems that not all infants have large amounts of bifidobacteria in their stool 14. comparisons of worldwide datasets norway 15 sweden 16 canada 17 italy18 switzerland 19 bangladesh 4 the usa 20 malawi and finland 21 show that the gut microbiomes of healthy breastfed infants in some populations had lower amounts of bifidobacteria than others.

using this conceptual framework we will discuss various hypotheses for how bifidobacteria are acquired by infants and how the gut microbiota is shaped in ways that may impact the immediate and future health of an infant.environmental selection in the gutmany factors that influence the gut microbiome of infants fall under the general umbrella of selection-based determination including the antimicrobial ingredients of breast milk lysozyme lactoferrin and antibodies the infant immune system and infant exposure to antimicrobials 23-25. antibiotic use in particular has been recently shown to impact the infant microbiome with some studies indicating that antibiotic exposure lowers bifidobacterial levels 26-29. however of the potential environmental conditions exerting selective pressure on the gut microbiota diet is perhaps the most apparent both in adults and infants 17 30 31. breast milk has been the principal source of nutrition for infants over human evolutionary history and formula feeding leads to disruptions in the typical pattern of microbiota development in infants 30 32. the mechanism by which breast milk influences the microbiota is of translational interest as current diet-based means to alter microbial ecosystems in a targeted manner are poorly developed.

bacteroides and bifidobacteria for example have strain level metabolic interactions which depend on carbon source availability 39 40. they can both consume at least some hmgs though select bifidobacteria have been shown to outcompete bacteroides for these growth substrates 41. in the absence of hmg-consuming bifidobacteria however bacteroides species may dominate the infant gut microbiome and expose the infant to increased amounts of lipopolysaccharide types which are linked to downstream autoimmune disease 42. in addition bacteroides degradation products of sialylated milk oligosaccharides have been shown to promote the growth of potentially pathogenic enterobacteriaceae in in vitro studies suggesting the presence of a cross- feeding effect 43-45. this outgrowth of enterobacteriaceae may also induce gut inflammation 45. several studies have previously observed a trade-off between the abundance of bifidobacteria and proteobacteria in infants which may partially be the result of the import-and-degrade strategy of hmg consumption of some bifidobacteria which unlike bacteroides do not leave behind degradation products for future proteobacterial consumption 4 20 37 46 fig.

the dutch microbiologist lourens baas becking once famously hypothesized that when it came to microbial biogeography everything is everywhere but the environment selects 22. proposed mechanisms for the differential bifidobacterial abundance phenomenon may be broken down into two broad categories mirroring bass becking's statement either the gut environments of some infants are differentially selective against bifidobacteria or there are higher barriers to bifidobacteria getting into infants in some places than others bifidobacteria are in fact not everywhere.

the placenta is near sterile and likely contributes little to the gut microbiome in the first days of life 52. transfer from the mother's vaginal canal during birth is the first major source of inoculum 53. cesarean section birth limits exposure to possible inoculation both via maternal stool during birth and via vaginal contact and as a result cesarean section-born infants often possess distinct gut microbial assemblages which are occasionally lower in bifidobacteria 17 32 54. bifidobacteria have been detected in the vagina although specialized hmg degraders such as b. longum subsp.

1.trade-off between the abundances of bifidobacteria and bacteroides in the gut of breastfed infants the gut microbial community of infants in bangladesh adapted from huda et al.

the guts of breastfed infants are typically dominated by bifidobacteria unlike those of adults 1 2. bifidobacteria are gram-positive anaerophilic bacteria commonly used as probiotics and are beneficial to infants in a number of ways.

because bifidobacteria are an important foundation species that unlock a key carbon source and facilitate an entire metabolic network leading to adaptive development of the infant gut microbiota their disappearance may lead to sequelae of public health importance 71 77 78. the hygiene hypothesis encompasses this idea and attempts to connect diseases such as diabetes inflammatory bowel disease autism allergies atopy metabolic syndrome and chronic inflammatory bowel diseases with microbial dysbiosis reviewed in 11 71 79.to design interventions that remedy putative bifidobacterium -related microbial dysbiosis early in life and avoid its potential undesirable outcomes one must first understand the reasons behind the undercolonization of infants by bifidobacteria in some locations.

influence of maternal bifidobacteria on the establishment of bifidobacteria colonizing the gut in infants.

this lack of colonization may be due either to differences in the environmental conditions in the gastrointestinal tract of uncolonized infants which prohibit the growth of bifidobacteria or a dearth of sources from which infants may acquire these specialized bacterial species.

however recent studies have revealed that bifidobacteria are often absent in the gut microbiome of breastfed infants in some locations.

2013 25378-387. pubmed 24209708kirjavainen pv arvola t salminen sj isolauri e. aberrant composition of gut microbiota of allergic infants a target of bifidobacterial therapy at weaning gut.

infantis appear to be rare in that environment and where found their presence may be due to fecal contamination 55-59. the mother's intestinal microbiota is a likely source of some bifidobacteria for the infant both during and after the birthing process and several studies have proven strain congruence among isolates from mother's and infant's feces 55 60. the skin of mothers and other caretakers may also be a vector for the early transfer of intestinal microbes 61. other potential sources of microbes include siblings pets and the built environment 62-64.breast milk contains microbes including bifidobacteria but their origin and potential impact on colonization remains unclear 65-68. reverse flow of milk during nursing indicates likely contaminating transfer of external microbes into the mammary gland complicating inference of transfer directionality 69. a so-called enteromammary pathway has also been postulated whereby the mother's immune system gathers microbes from the mother's gastrointestinal tract and without killing them transfers them to be expressed from the mammary gland to the infant during suckling at the breast 70 71. this hypothesis remains speculative and has the disadvantage that the absolute number of microbes transferred in such a system would likely be relatively low in comparison to inoculation from other sources i.e.

potential mechanisms by which these broad factors may lead to lower colonization of infants by bifidobacteria are discussed herein.

a careful contemplation of the conditions experienced by bifidobacteria over human evolutionary history may lead to further hypotheses as to the causative factors of the differential colonization by this foundation genus in some contemporary locations.introductionbreastfeeding benefits human infants in numerous ways.

