the plasma profile of bile acids supplementary figure 1 reveals that all bile acids including cholic acid ca muricholic acid mca and chenodeoxycholic acid cdca as well as their derivatives the secondary bile acids deoxycholic acid dca hyodeoxycholic acid hdca lithocholic acid lca and ursodeoxycholic acid udca were increased upon bae supplementation.

results are expressed as means and sem and differences were considered significant when the p value was  0.05 and borderline significant at p  0.1. kaplan-meier survival curves were generated with a subsequent log-rank test to compare survival curves of the two groups.abbreviationsbae brown algae extract bat brown adipose tissue bsh bile salt hydrolase ca cholic acid cdca chenodeoxycholic acid cr creatinine dca deoxycholic acid ee energy expenditure hdca hyodeoxycholic acid hfd high fat diet lca lithocholic acid mca muricholic acid micro-ct micro-computed tomography nmr nuclear magnetic resonance rer respiratory exchange ratio scfa short chain fatty acids udca ursodeoxycholic acid wat white adipose tissueauthor contributionsp.h.

collectively results indicate that bae alters drastically bile acid homeostasis by enhancing enterohepatic circulation via modification of microbial metabolism and enhancement of intestinal absorption of total bile acids but in particular of primary bile acids conjugated with taurine figure 2f without affecting total bile acid excretion in feces.the expression of the majority of genes involved in post-absorptive bile acid metabolism are not affected by bae supplementationwe examined mrna levels of genes involved in bile acid uptake and binding export synthesis and excretion in the ileum liver and kidney after 4 and 12 h of fasting table 2. because gene expression was very similar for the two fasting periods mrna levels are shown only for one time point.

we observed apparent metabolic improvement including normalization of blood glucose reduced plasma leptin reduced fecal bile salt hydrolase activity with lower microbial production of toxic bile acid metabolites in the gut and increased systemic bile acid circulation in bae-fed mice counteracting adverse effects of long term hfd feeding.

as well as concentration of fecal secondary bile acids were significantly reduced in bae mice while primary bile acid excretion in feces was similar compared to control mice b. the concentration of total bile acids in plasma c. and urine d. was significantly higher in bae than control mice but hepatic bile acids were not different e. urinary bile acid concentration was related to creatinine cr concentration.

in plasma the ratio of conjugated to unconjugated bile acids was significantly modified with a relative decrease of unconjugated bile acids and an increase of glycine and taurine conjugation in the bae group f. g. furthermore the ratio of cholic acid ca to muricholic mca and chenodeoxycholic acid cdca tended to be higher whereas the secondary-to-primary bile acid-ratio was not different in bae miceg.

furthermore the mrna levels of cyp7a1 which is the rate limiting enzyme in bile acid synthesis were similar between groups whereas cyp8b1 synthesis of cholic acid depicted an upward trend under bae supplementation p  0.088. genes involved in the renal excretion of bile acids showed slight induction in the bae group with a significant difference in abcc2 mrna levels compared to the control.

these results agree with the increased renal excretion of the circulating bile acids in bae mice.bae modulates substrate oxidation and intestinal expression of genes related to bile acid glucose and fatty acid metabolismdietary bae had no effect on energy expenditure supplementary figure 3 whereas the respiratory exchange ratio was significantly increased compared to the control group figure 3a indicating augmented glucose oxidation especially during the light phase when the mice were naturally resting.

in view of the bae-induced changes in bile acid homeostasis we measured the mrna level of the bile acid activated transcription factor fxr and observed a time dependent modulation figure 3e.

this result suggests an improvement of metabolic flexibility in bae-fed mice similar to rats fed viscous fiber and emphasize the role that viscous fibers appear to play in the mechanism underlying the beneficial effects of bae.further metabolic alterations entailed by hfd feeding involve changes in bile acid homeostasis which include reduction of bile acids in systemic circulation 3 45 along with increased flow of bile acids into the gut followed by fecal excretion 33. in addition postprandial bile acid response in the circulation is lower compared to normal weight controls 46. surprisingly the total level of circulating bile acids was dramatically increased in the bae supplemented group whereas their fecal output remained unaltered.

fecal bile acid hydrolase bsh activity is a measure of the intestinal capacity for bile acid deconjugation and was determined as previously described 48 with minor modifications.

we moreover propose a multi-factorial mechanism that involves profound alterations in bile acid homeostasis changes in intestinal and systemic glucose metabolism likely including increased intestinal gluconeogenesis increased activity of the intestinally derived hormone glp-1 contributing to promote systemic insulin sensitivity and inhibition of a-amylase activity which expectably limits dietary carbohydrate digestion and glucose release.introductionthe world health organization states that in the past 30 years the worldwide obesity rates have nearly doubled reaching a critical number of 1.4 billion people in 2008 emphasizing a serious health problem.

compared to a standard low fat diet these changes include massive weight gain and fat deposition in various tissues and organs reduced insulin sensitivity as well as adipose tissue and liver inflammation 1 2. only recently it has been shown that hfd feeding also significantly alters bile acid homeostasis by reducing the level of circulating bile acids 3 while increasing the concentration of bile acids in the intestinal lumen 4 which are understood as mechanistic components of the hfd induced pathology.

similarly in mice the supplementation with brown algae extracts leads to a reduction in body weight adipose tissue and liver triglycerides 8-11. algae extracts have been reported to normalize plasma lipids and glucose metabolism and induce fatty acid oxidation in liver and skeletal muscle of hfd fed mice and rats 12-15. most of these studies used ethanolic extracts of asian brown algae species from korea japan and malaysia that were administered via oral gavage over a relatively short period of time.

alginates are composed of 14-glycosidically linked uronic acid units mannurate and gulurunate residues that solubilized in water formviscous gels 21. fucoidans on the other hand are sulfated fucose containing heteropolymers that in relation to their chemical structure have been shown to exhibit diverse bioactive effects 22 23. fucoidans alginates and also phenolic compounds from brown algae have been shown to decrease carbohydrate and protein digestibility by inhibition of digestive enzymes e.g.

