these observations corroborate current research on the functional roles of prokaryotic symbionts in sponges which have collectively demon- strated evolutionary convergence and functional equivalence in these complex symbiotic prokaryotic commu- nities  .conclusionthe present study shows that prokaryotic sponge-associated communities exhibit consistent host-specific patterns and variation in alpha- and beta-diversity across high prokaryotic taxonomic ranks.

sponge prokaryotic communities can be divided into three groups a prokaryotic core commu- nity that is present in 70 of all sponges a variable community with changing presence among different sponge species and a species-specific community which is specific to its host species.

quantification of prokary- otic cell numbers in sponges provides a differentiation of high microbial abundance hma and low microbial abundance lma sponges while parallel sequencing technologies emphasized the apparent importance of host identity on prokaryotic composition and diversity  -.

in addition recent quantitative approaches demonstrated divergent distributions of certain prokaryotic taxa that belong to sponge-associated phyla such as chloroflexi actinobacteria cyanobacteria and poribacteria between hma and lma sponges-.nonetheless while different sponge-species apparently possess these specific dominant prokaryotic phyla little is known whether the observed beta-diversity patterns i.e.

phylogenetically divergent sponge sam- ples collected from the same locality patterns of prokaryotic beta-diversity might reflect the putative functional traits and adaptation of sponge-specific deep branching prokaryotic lineages at high taxonomic ranks.

recent studies analysing marine environmental prokaryotic patterns from sediment or seawater samples found indications that prokaryotic community compositions can be meaningful and consistent across broad tax- onomic ranks .

and supplementary figure 4a-h and the significant differences of alpha diversity indices within this subset supplementary table  were not significant in the multivariate subset analysis at all taxonomic ranks supplementary table .the striking overall consistency of contrasting prokaryotic community patterns at high taxonomic ranks indicates divergent functional and ecological associations with the hosts among prokaryotic phylogenetic deep branches such as the phylum level.

results show that the resemblance of prokaryotic communities at different taxonomic ranks is consistent with patterns present at 97 operational taxonomic unit level.marine sponges porifera are important benthic filter feeding organisms which inhabit a large range of eco- systems from the deep sea to continental shelves and shallow reefs to tropical temperate and polar regions.

moreover sponges are known to host diverse and complex prokaryotic communities and up to 38 of the sponge biomass can be made up of bacteria.

apparently certain prokaryotic taxa known to be involved in the nitrogen cycle in sponges such as nitrosopumilus nitrospira  or synechococcusare unequally distributed between the different depths in this intraspecific comparison.

this finding is in line with functional predictions of the prokaryotic nitrogen metabolism performed among two other tropical hmalma sponges.

marine sponges were collected by snorkeling scuba diving and by using a remotely automated vehicle sperre sub-fighter rov in a confined area of kosterjforden bay tjarno sweden 58deg52'53.1n 11deg07'17.5e in september 2012. sponges were initially iden- tified morphologically on location and dissected at the tjarno marine biology laboratory field station.

a characteristic feature is the associated dense and diverse prokaryotic community present within the sponge mesohyl.

however little is known whether sponge host-specific prokaryotic community patterns observed at 97 16s rrna gene sequence similarity are consistent at high taxonomic ranks from genus to phylum level.

in the present study we investigated the prokaryotic community structure and variation of 24 sponge specimens seven taxa and three seawater samples from sweden.

