Therefore the objective of this study was to perform an analysis of the microbiome in the rumen of cattle before during and after ex- posure to pine needles to identify rumen microbial changes that occur during pine needle exposure.2314Effect of pine needles on rumen microbiome.2315MATERIAlS And METHodSAll protocols for animals used in this research were performed under veterinary supervision and reviewed and approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee Utah State University Logan Utah.Plant MaterialPonderosa pine needles were collected in December 2002 near Custer South Dakota N 43deg43.257' W 103deg37.509'.

These results suggest that extended exposure of cattle to pine needles results in a physiological change in cattle such that the known abortifacient compounds in ponderosa pine needles are metabolized more quickly.

Pine needles 5 g needles x kg-1 BW were administered via stom- ach tube directly into the rumen as a ground needles water slurry twice daily morning and afternoon for 7 d. Blood was collected 10 mL each morning im- mediately before each dose and again on d 10 and d 14 of the study after the final dose was administered.

Previous research has demonstrated that cattle con- ditioned to pine needles metabolize the labdane resin acids more quickly than naive cattle.

2011.A previous study demonstrated that cattle condi- tioned to ponderosa pine needles can more efficiently metabolize the abortifacient compounds than naive cattle Welch et al.

The concentration of AA rapidly increased in the serum of the cattle for the first 24 h. However after 24 h the concentration of AA in the se- rum declined for the following 48 h even though the cattle continued to be dosed with pine needles twice a day indicating that a physiological adaptation had oc- curred which was consistent with the previous report Welch et al.

Interestingly 10 of the 23 genera that decreased in abundance by d 7 remained decreased at d 14 suggesting that the effect of the pine needles on decreasing some bacterial genera abundance had a longer lasting effect greater than 1 wk.Most cows that abort after being exposed to pine needles will do so within 3 d of exposure James et al.

In addition because concentrations of secondary compounds in pine needles are variable and complex it will be challenging to determine what specific compounds in pine needles are responsible for the shifts in the ruminal microbiome.We recognize that a shortcoming of this study was the small number of animals evaluated and as such the data should be interpreted with caution.

A. PfisterUSDA-ARS Poisonous Plant Research Laboratory Logan Utah 84341ABSTRACT Consumption of ponderosa pine nee- dles as well as needles and bark from a number of other trees can cause abortions in cattle.

Therefore in this study the changes that occurred in the rumen bacterial microflora of cattle during exposure to ponderosa pine needles were evaluated.

