the epidemiology of cdi among international travellers is poorly understood and factors associated with international travel such as antibiotic use and changes in gut microbiota could poten- tially put travellers at higher risk.methods we summarized demographic travel-associated and geographic characteristics of travellers with cdi in the geosentinel database from 1997 to 2015. we also surveyed geosentinel sites to compare various testing indica- tions approaches and diagnostic modalities.results we identified 260 geosentinel records including 187 that satisfied criteria for analysis confirmed cases in non-immigrant travellers aged 2 years seen 12 weeks post-travel.

antibiotic use is known to cause reduced resistance to c. difficile colonization through disruption of the intestinal microbiotain a duration- dependent manner.providing travellers with a short course of antibiotics for self-treatment of traveller's diarrhoea is a stan- dard of practice in travel medicine.a recent study of usa- based pre-travel healthcare providers by the global travepinet clinic consortium showed that 87 of international travellers received an antibiotic prescription for empiric self-treatment for presumptive travellers' diarrhoea although the proportion of travellers using such prescriptions during travel is unknown.in addition to antibiotic use international travel itself has been as- sociated with broad changes in intestinal microbial community structurethough this has not been directly associated with cdi.cdi has been shown to be associated with internationaltravel.

prospective studies that involve testing all travellers for c. difficile are needed for determination of independent risk factors.the variability of laboratory diagnostic testing practices found in our study illustrates the lack of standardization in the diagnostic approach for travellers' diarrhoea.

3conclusions cdi is encountered in returning international travellers although there is considerable variability in testing practices.

surveymonkeytm surveymonkey inc. palo alto usa was used to conduct an online survey of the 59 geosentinel sites active during october 2015. we queried the various testing indicationsapproaches the types of c. difficile lab diagnostic tests used the types of lab- oratory facilities available and whether or not testing was per- formed on unformed stool only stata 14 software statacorpjournal of travel medicine 2017 vol.

the majority of cdi diagnoses were made by clinics in north america 58 31 in the usa and 37 20 infigure 1. exclusion criteria for cases of travel-associated c. difficile-as- sociated diarrhoea in geosentinel travellers 1997-2015canada followed by 22 12 in germany 18 10 infrance and 15 8 in sweden .cdi was reported with travel to asia in 57 31 travellers particularly south central asia n 14 33 18 and southeast asia n 14 20 11. thirty-one 17 were associated with travel to sub-saharan africa and 56 30 with travel to centralsouth america or the carribean.

results were stratified into one of the three geographic reporting groups north america europe and rest of the world to reflect the global distribution of participating clinics.in evaluating testing approaches stratified by group  15 sites 7 in europe 5 in north america reported testing of patients with acute diarrhoea who failed empiric treat- ment for presumed bacterial diarrhoea.

most notably 23 of the 56 sites 42 reported that the testing approach varied by individual clinician practices at the reporting site.the most common method of diagnostic testing used was thec.

these testing methods are not mutually exclusive since many sites reported use of more than one testing method.figure 2. relative occurrence of c. difficile infection compared with giardiasis cryptosporidiosis and campylobacteriosis geosentinel 1997-20144journal of travel medicine 2017 vol.

35table 3. testing indications and diagnostic testing methods by regional groups for travel-associated c. difficile infection at geosentinel sites n 14 56presumed bacterial diarrhoeapatients with acute diarrhoea and risk factors for recent antibiotic exposure healthcare exposure18 8613 6811 6942conditionpatients with evidence of organ dysfunction due to the severity of the infection i.e.

renal failure etc5 244 210 091note that these answers are not mutually exclusive thus percentages do not add up to 100.2note that these testing methods are not mutually exclusive since many sites have more than 1 testing method.3responses could be yes no or unknown.caregivers.

defining more specific criteria for travellers to self-administer antibiotics for travel-associated diarrhoea and counseling on preventative measures such as basic hygiene measuresmay be the key to preventing dysbiosis and cdi.we demonstrate a high heterogeneity across sites in diagnostic testing practices for cdi.

toxin gene pcr assays are regarded as a rapid sensitive and specific testing method and are com- monly used either alone or in combination with toxin eia and glutamate dehydrogenase testing.

first because the find- ings are limited to travellers who present for care to geosentinel sites the data are not necessarily representative of all international travellers.

cdi was reported in all age groups and in trav- ellers to all world regions the largest proportions of cases having destinations in asia 31 centralsouth america or the caribbean 30 and africa 24. our site survey revealed substantial heterogeneity of testing approaches between sites the most commonly used test was the c. difficile toxin gene pcr.vc international society of travel medicine 2017. published by oxford university press.

