dalati  darshan devang divakar  a department of preventive dental sciences jazan university p.o.box114 jazan 82943 saudi arabiab department of periodontics and community dentistry college of dentistry king saud university riyadh saudi arabiac dental public health college of dentistry king saud university riyadh saudi arabiad department of pediatric dentistry and orthodontics college of dentistry king saud university riyadh saudi arabiae al-nakeel medical center riyadh saudi arabiaf springs dental care new road side horsforth leeds ukg department oral medicine and radiology kvg dental college and hospital sullia karnataka indiaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 25 october 2016 received in revised form 24 january 2017accepted 6 february 2017available online 8 february 2017keywordsperi-implantitis dental microflora osseointegration colonisersa b s t r a c t although dental implants are most common prosthetic treatment used to replace missing tooth it gained considerable importance over a decade owing to the availability of advanced imagery techniques that can help in achieving a greater success rate and much better osseointegration.

this review also entails the latest research on the different treatment modalities against peri-implantitis documented in peer-review journals.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.contentsintroduction20importance of imaging in dental implantation21microbial flora of dental implants21biofilm and tooth21biofilm and implant22treatment22conclusion23references23introductiondental implants are widely used by dentists as prosthesis to replace damaged or lost tooth.

emicrobiome of dental implants and its clinical aspectreghunathan s. preethanath  nadia w. alnahas  sahar m. bin huraib hana o. al-balbeesi  naif khalid almalik  m.h.n.

this review gives the viewers an overall idea of the dental implants role of advanced imaging in implantation and instances of peri-implantitis that occur after implantation process.

dental implants are titanium cyl- inders that form interfaces with the jaw establishing a bond with the bone .

this article also features the diagnostic imaging tools that are used by dentists in pre and post-operative follow-up procedures to check the integration of implants on the jaw.importance of imaging in dental implantationimaging not only plays an important role prior to implantation but also in the post-operative follow-up to check the efficiency of the endosseus implants.

post dental im- plantation these radiographic techniques are useful as they pro- vide the dentists with long-term success rates by checking the osseointegration of the implants .

these factors include poor maintenance of the implants and the growing microbial flora in the soft tissues in the vicinity of the implants.microbial flora of dental implantsnormal microbiota of healthy implants include gram positive rods and cocci .

microorganisms harbouring in the soft tis- sues near the dental implants include periodontal pathogens namely actinobacillus actinomycetemcomitans porphyromonas gingivalis prevotella intermedia bacteroides forsythus and trepo- nemadenticola .

a similar pattern was observed in yet another study wherein biofilms were demonstrated on dental implants and teeth .

2005 stated no evidence for any particular type of dental implant with superior long-term success.

in order to evaluate the outcome and to study the chances of re-osseointegration after peri-implantitis .the gold standard for restoring bone defects even in dental diseases is still considered to be autologous bone grafting.

research is on-going for the expansion of alternative bone sub- stitutes of both biological and synthetic origin .although use of antibiotics is aimed at reducing the pathogens around dental implants and reducing the inflammation successful elimination and true re-osseointegration is not yet achieved .methods like surgical treatment decontamination of affected parts by using chemical agents and air abrasives like sandblasting on titanium implants  use of lasers erl etc.

2005. general therapy includes treating dental implants with chlor- hexidine and saline .

knowledge and understanding of peri-implant disease pathogenesis would be increasing with application of metagenomics and metatrascriptomics analysis of oral ecology .proper dental maintenance following implantation helps to prevent peri-implantitis progression.

