however an examination of the microbial community exchanges presented here suggests that microbial contaminants can and do reach the actual reef corals and may influence the community structure of reef microbiota and thus presumably influence the health status and resiliency of reef ecosystems.

the percentage of endozoicomonas was significantly different among tissue samples from each reef p  0.038 and tended to be higher at the oakland ridge reef.

among reef water samples the contribution from outfall communities was significantly greater at sites collected from the southern region than others emerald and pillars reefs p  0.007 although other source contributions did not differ significantly by site p  0.052. the contribution of bacteria from source communities to those of reef water and polyps also showed temporal variability table s2 and were generally greater in samples collected in 2014 than those in 2015. mucus communities did not show temporal variability in source influence p  0.553 table s2.fungal communities showed a lower proportion of ubiquitous marine taxa open ocean water source than did bacterial communities .

reef water samples collected in the northern region oakland ridge and barracuda reefs had significantly higher percentages of the fungal communities asso- ciated with those from open ocean samples p  0.012 while reef communities in thefig 4 redundancy analysis relating physicochemical parameters sample site locations and distributions of the 15 most abundant bacterial families among water samples.

fungal contributions from inlets to reef water communities were greater in 2014 while outfall contributions to reef communities tended to be greater from may to november in both 2014 and 2015. fungal contributions from outfall communities to polyp communities also tended to be higher in 2014.discussionthe prokaryotic communities characterized in this study using illumina-based se- quence technology were similar to those previously characterized in marine coastal waters in this area using 454 pyrosequencing technology .

this result is not surprising given the greater similarity in physicochemical parameters between reef and outfall samples versus reef and inlet chemistries.

water samples from coastal inlet dis- charges oceanic outfalls of municipal wastewater treatment plants treated wastewa- ter effluent before discharge open ocean samples and coral tissue samples mucus and polyps were characterized to determine the relationships between microbial communities in these matrices and those in reef water and coral tissues.

contamination from outfalls was found to be the greatest potential source of lbsp influencing native microbial community structure among all reef samples although pollution from inlets was also noted.

notably reef water and coral tissue communities were found to be more greatly impacted by lbsp at south- ern reefs which also experienced the most degradation during the course of the study.

the results of this study provide new insights into how microbial communi- ties from lbsp can impact coral reefs in southeast florida and suggest that waste- water outfalls may have a greater influence on the microbial diversity and structure of these reef communities than do contaminants carried in runoff although the in- fluences of runoff and coastal inlet discharge on coral reefs are still substantial.importance coral reefs are known to be endangered due to sewage discharge and to runoff of nutrients pesticides and other substances associated with an- thropogenic activity.

here we used next-generation sequencing to characterize the microbial communities of potential contaminant sources in order to deter- mine how environmental discharges of microbiota and their genetic material may influence the microbiomes of coral reef communities and coastal receiving waters.

the coral microbiome has recently been implicated in the onset of reef diseases where stresses on the microbiome e.g.

in this study we used a next-generation sequencing approach to characterize the microbial communities from lbsp coastal inlets oceanic outfalls from wastewater treatment plants and wastewater treatment effluent coral reef waters and coral tissues mucus and polyps among coral reefs off the southeastern coast of florida offshore of the miami-dade and broward counties.

we hypothesized that the impacts of various lbsp on microbial prokaryotic and fungal communities in nearby coral reefs and tissue samples would vary as a result of demographic and hydrological differences associated with sampling sites and that the relative degree of source impacts could be determined based on exchange between microbial communities from lbsp and reef waters or coral tissues.

the goals of this program are to investigate nutrient concentration and transport from lbsps perform coral benthic surveys of coral cover and health and monitor microbiological water quality of the southeast florida sentinel coral reef sites used in this study.

