a potential alternative strategy is supplementation of functional nutrients which could provide potential health and development benefitsa 2017 american society for nutrition.beyond satisfying the basic nutrition requirements of the cultured species 4. in particular nucleotides and their related products have gained much attention as functional nutrients 5-9.nucleotides are low-molecular-weight intracellular com-pounds that play key roles in diverse essential physiologic and biochemical functions including encoding genetic information and mediating energy metabolism and signal transduction 5 10. in fish nucleotides have long been implicated as feed attractants 11. however research into the potential growth and health benefits of dietary nucleotides did not begin until themanuscript received december 6 2016. initial review completed january 8 2017. revision accepted february 24 2017.781first published online march 29 2017 doi10.3945jn.116.245506.early 2000s 12 13. dietary nucleotide supplementation has been shown to enhance growth immune responses and disease resistance in various fish species 14 15. according to the existing literature the mechanisms underlying the growth- promotion effect of dietary nucleotides in fish include the following 1 chemoattractive effect which increases the feed intake of fish 11 2 improvement in intestinal morphology 16 and 3 reduction in the high energy demand for nucleotide synthesis 17.studies of animal bioenergetics attempt to describe the energy flow in individual organisms through a balanced energy budget.

interestingly we observed that the standard metabolic rate of zebrafish fed a diet with 0.1 nucleotides was significantly lower than in control fish indicat- ing that the growth-promotion effect of dietary nucleotides is associated with reduced energy expenditure of the host.a growing number of studies have shown that the gut microbiota has a tight and coordinated connection with host metabolism energy utilization and storage 37. in this study a germ-free zebrafish model and microbiota transfer technique were used to elucidate the contribution of a nucleotide-altered microbiota to the reduced standard metabolic rate of fish.

in this regard growth can be regarded as the difference between gross energy intake and other components of the energy budget that is g  c 2 f 2 u 2 rs 2 rf 18 where g is energy for growth c is energy consumed in diet f represents energy of feces produced u is energy lost in ammonia excretion rs is standard metabolic rate standard metabolic energy and rf is feeding metabolic rate.

notably the downregulated inflammatory tone mediated by the direct action of nucleotides did not lead to a lower standard metabolic rate in the germ-free zebrafish implying a minor contribution of the direct effect of nucleotides compared with the microbiota-mediated effect.fiaf is the key factor that the microbiota targets to regulate both energy storage and expenditure 19. with regard to en- ergy expenditure fiaf induces the expression of peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor coactivator 1a in muscle 19 which is known to increase the expression of genes encoding regulators of fa oxidation including cpt1a and mcad 40. the microbiota suppresses the intestinal epithelial production of fiaf which contributes to reduced fa oxidation in the muscle of conventionally raised mice compared with their germ-free counterparts 19. in this study dietary nucleotides decreased the intestinal expression of fiaf.

different from control p  0.01. gfcm germ-free zebrafish colonized with control microbiota gfntm germ-free zebrafish colonized with nucleotide-altered microbiota nt nucleotide.metabolic rate between germ-free zebrafish colonized with control or nucleotide microbiota was attributed to the standard metabolic rate of the host and microbial metabolism did not influence the results.energy metabolism is an important part of the background machinery that ensures proper function of the immune system 38. in an inflammatory situation the energy appeal reaction redirection of energy-rich substrates from storage sites to consumer is driven by cytokine-induced stimulation of the central nervous system endocrine organs and energy storage organs 39. in this study nucleotides feeding led to a generally downregulated inflammatory tone in the intestine supplemental figure 4 and head kidney which probably contributed to the reduction in the standard metabolic rate of fish upon nucleotide feeding considering that inflammation is a high-energy- consuming process.

however the influence of the intestinal microbiota by dietary nucleotides in fish has to our knowledge never been studied by high-resolution pyrosequencing methods and the role played by the microbiota in the growth-promotion effect of dietary nucleotides has never been addressed.in this study we first tested the effect of dietary nucleotides on the growth of zebrafish and a growth-promotion effect was observed.

the gut microbiota may regulate 1 node within the metabolic network that controls bioenergetics and can influence both energy harvest and energy expenditure of the host 19. currently to our knowledge there are few studies on the role of dietary nucleotides on the intestinal microbiota.

samples from the control group and the nt group were well separated with the exception of a few samples supplemental figure 2. accordingly the principal coordinate analysis showed separated clustering of the nt group and control samples indicating a marked alteration of the microbiota by dietary nucleotides supple- mental figure 2.direct effects of nucleotides on germ-free zebrafish.

together these results indicated that the reduction in standard metabolic rate by dietary nucleotides was mediated by the intestinal microbiota and was not associated with direct effect of nucleotides on the host.

therefore the decreased intestinal fiaf expression associated with dietary nucleotides in the feeding trial was mediated by the microbiota and the microbiota- mediated effect counteracted the opposite effect mediated by direct action of nucleotides.

germ-free zebrafish colonized with microbiota from nt fish had a 25 lower standard metabolic rate than did those colonized by control microbiota p  0.01 whereas direct nucleotide feeding of germ-free zebrafish did not affect standard metabolic rate relative to germ-free controls that were not fed nucleotides.

germ-free zebrafish colonized with nucleo- tide microbiota or fed nucleotide-supplemented microparticulate diets both showed a reduced inflammatory status compared with the respective control groups suggesting that the attenuated inflammatory status was mediated by both the nucleotide-altered microbiota and the direct effect of nucleotides.

different from control p  0.05p  0.001. fiaf fasting-induced adipose factor gfcm germ-free zebrafish colonized with control microbiota gfntm germ-free zebra- fish colonized with nucleotide-altered microbiota ptgs1 prostaglandin- endoperoxidase synthase 1 tgfb transforming growth factor b tnfa tumor necrosis factor a.786 guo et al.figure 7 relative mrna expressions of inflammatory cytokines a and b and fiaf c in the whole body of 5-d postfertilization germ- free zebrafish fed the control or 0.1 nt sterile microparticulate diets for 3 d. values are means 6 sems n  6 15 fishreplicate.different from control p  0.05 p  0.01. fiaf fasting-induced adipose factor nt nucleotide ptgs1 prostaglandin-endoperoxidase synthase 1 tgfb transforming growth factor b tnfa tumor necrosis factor a.action of dietary nucleotides deserves further investigation.

the relative expressions of il8 il12 and il8l2 were 50 31 and 36 lower in nucleotide microbiota-colonized zebrafish than in their control microbiota-colonized counterparts respectively p  0.05. the relative expression of il10 was 224 higher in zebrafish colonized with nucleotide microbiota than in control microbiota-colonized fish p  0.001 figure 6a b. intrigu- ingly germ-free zebrafish colonized with nucleotide microbiota had 33 lower expression of fiaf than did their control microbiota-colonized counterparts indicating an increased sup- pression of fiaf by nucleotide microbiota p  0.001 figure 6c.figure 3 relative mrna expressions of proinflammatory a and anti-inflammatory b cytokines in the head kidney tissue of zebrafish fed control or 0.1 nt diets for 2 wk expt.

studies in gnotobiotic mice showed that co-colonization of bacteroides thetaiotaomicron and methanobrevibacter smithii led to in- creased suppression of intestinal fiaf compared with colonization with either organism alone 19. mono-colonization of germ-free zebrafish with the primary isolates from the zebrafish microbiota showed significantly attenuated suppression of fiaf expression compared with the unfractionated microbiota 33. both studies suggest that the fiaf suppression is mediated by a combinatory action of different members of the microbiota.

