our results indicate that while not strictly quantitative cpn60 universal pcr and deep sequencing creates a microbiome profile that reflects the relative abundance of species in the original microbial community.as sequencing costs are reduced and procedures streamlined rou- tine diagnostic applications for high-throughput sequencing of vaginal microbial communities long predicted  are increasingly feasible.

we demonstrate that the herswabtm collects a biological sample that is sufficient and suitable for downstream processes for cpn60 ut deep sequencing analysis including dna extraction indexing pcr and sequencing using the miseq platform.

we also confirm that the proportion of reads per phylotype per sample from the deep sequencing results is significantly correlated with the estimated proportion of each organism in mixtures further evidence that cpn60 ut deep sequencing is a quantitative method in molecular microbial ecology.materials and methodsculture models of vaginal micro-organismsin order to standardize organism input we made three mixtures with varying proportions of 11 vaginal bacteria from our culture collec- tion  representing simplified versions of commonly observed community state types cst in healthy canadian women   including cst i lactobacillus crispatus-dominated cst iv mixed or intermediate and cst v gardnerella subgroup a-dominat- ed.

the identities of the micro-or- ganisms were confirmed based on known phenotype gram stain char- acteristics and sanger sequencing of the cpn60 ut amplified with the same universal primers used for sequencing library preparation.

qpcr results were analyzed using cfx manager software v3.1 biorad mississauga on.cpn60 universal target pcr and sequencing library preparationprocedures were adapted from the 16s metagenomic sequencing library preparation manual available at  for amplification of the cpn60 ut instead of the 16s rrna gene.

in order to compare expected proportions of each organism based on volume with the proportion of sequencing reads for each organism the adjusted volume mlod595 of each organ- ism added to the final mixture was plotted against sequencing reads and assessed using pearson's test in the ggplot2 package.

these results indicate that herswabstm provided sufficient material for downstream sequencing procedures.sequencing results and detection of input organismsthe 500 sequencing cycles were allocated asymmetrically 400 cy- cles for r1 and 100 cycles for r2 rather than 250 for both reads in order to maximize coverage of the cpn60 ut sequence.

for d1 samples all three replicates clustered together in all three cst while replicates in d4 samples did not cluster together and replicates in d7 samples only clustered together in cst-v.sequence abundance correlates with quantitative estimates of input organismspercent sequencing reads attributed to each organism correlated strongly with estimated percent of adjusted volume added to each artificial mixture r2  0.95 p b 0.0001b indicating that deep sequencing provides quantitative estimates of the proportions of com- ponent organisms.

b. correlation of percent adjusted volume volume adjusted for optical density of culture see  and percent sequencing reads with significance assessed using pearson's product-moment correlation in r.analysis r2  0.86 p b 0.0001. while input and output were similar overall the intended proportion adjusted volume of gardnerella abc and p. bivia in cst-v was higher than the outcome proportion sequencing reads indicating the sequence-based profiles under-estimated the abun- dance of these organisms in cst-v samples.profile reproducibility and phylogenetic distance by unifracphylogenetic profiles generated from herswabstm were highly simi- lar to those generated from standard nylon swabs as calculated using the unifrac algorithm a. as expected the greatest and least phy- logenetic distance was observed between samples from different cst and different replicates respectively p b 0.0001 by wilcoxon rank sum test.

microbial profiling of cpn60 universal target sequences in artificial mixtures of vaginal bacteria sampled by nylon swabs or self-sampling devices under different storage conditionsjohn j. schellenberg 1 angela yena oh 1 janet e. hill department of veterinary microbiology university of saskatchewan saskatoon canadaa r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 20 december 2016received in revised form 5 march 2017accepted 6 march 2017available online 9 march 2017keywordsvaginal self-sampling herswabtmquantitative microbiome profiling cpn60 universal target hierarchical clusteringunifrac aldex2a b s t r a c t the vaginal microbiome is increasingly characterized by deep sequencing of universal genes.

in order to minimize technical variation mixtures of 11 common vaginal bacteria in simulated vaginal fluid medium were sampled and dna extracts prepared for massively parallel sequencing of the cpn60 universal target ut.

our results indicate that cpn60 ut amplicon sequencing quantifies the proportional abundance of member organisms in these artificial communities regardless of swab type or storage conditions although some significant differences were observed between samples that were stored frozen and thawed prior to dna extraction compared to extractions from samples stored at room temperature for up to 7 days.

our results indicate that an on-the-market device developed for infectious disease diagnostics may be appropriate for vagi- nal microbiome profiling an approach that is increasingly facilitated by rapidly dropping deep sequencing costs.c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.introductionthe vaginal microbiome defined as the community of microbes that colonize the female reproductive tract plays a critical but still poorly understood role in reproductive health.

the identification and quantifi- cation of bacterial types in the vaginal microbiome is increasingly mea- sured by molecular census using clone libraries high-throughput sequencing or quantitative pcr of phylogenetically informative genes .

cpn60-based sequencing is particular- ly useful in the context of the vaginal microbiome since it can easily corresponding author at western college of veterinary medicine 52 campus dr. university of saskatchewan saskatoon s7n 5b4 canada.e-mail address j.e.

