5 2017fecal microbiota transplantation induces hepatitis b virus e-antigen hbeag clearance in patients with positive hbeag after long-term antiviral therapyyan-dan ren1 zhen-shi ye1 liu-zhu yang1 li-xin jin1 wen-jun wei1 yong-yue deng2 xiao-xiao chen2 chuan-xing xiao1 xiao-fang yu3 hong-zhi xu1 li-zhu xu1 yun-na tang1 fei zhou1 xue-lian wang2 mei-ya chen1 li-gang chen1 mei-zhu hong4 jian-lin ren1 and jin-shui pan1orhepatitisbvirushbve-antigen hbeag-positivechronichepatitisb chb patients hbeag seroconversion is a prerequisite for a definite course of antiviral treat- ment.1 unfortunately for both entecavir etv and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate tdf hbeag clearance or seroconversion only occurs in a minori- ty of patients even after multiple years of antiviral therapy.

in the fmt arm 2 participants patients c and e achieved hbeag clearance after one fmt whereas patient d achieved hbeag clearance after two fmt treatments.

the results demonstrated that fmt can induce hbeag clearance in a significant proportion of the cases who have persistent positive hbeag even after long-term antiviral treatment.

the gut microbiota appears to play a criti- cal role in age-related immune clearance of hbv.2 several studies have indicated that chb patients with liver cirrhosis have different microbiota com- pared to healthy people.34 the leakage hypoth- esis has linked gut microbiota to the onset and progression of liver diseases.5 thus we reported on a case-controlled open-label pilot trial of fecal microbiotatransplantationfmtforchbpatients.methods and resultsin the present study 18 eligible patients who remained persistently positive for hbeag following3 years of ongoing etv- or tdf-based antiviral therapy were enrolled table 1. among them 5 par- ticipants were enrolled in the fmt arm whereas 13 were enrolled in the control arm according to whether they accepted fmt or not.

after obtaining written informed con- sents fmt treatment was performed by gastroscope for the participants in the fmt arm every 4 weeks until hbeag clearance was achieved.

the fmt treatment schedule andtable 1. baseline demographic and clinical characteristics of the enrolled patientscharacteristicfmt armcontrol armp valueenrollment months median rangepositive hbeag is defined as hbeag1.0 sco according to the manufacturer.

baseline hbeag is further verified by a qualitative method.positive hbeab is defined as hbeab 1.0 sco according to the manufacturer.according to the manufacturer 1 3 uln of alt and ast refers to 40 iuml.sscirrhosis scored as f4 according to the metavir system is detected by fibroscan and was defined as liver stiffness measurement17.3 kpa.abbreviations sco signal-to-cutoff ratio ast aspartate aminotransferase uln upper limit of normal.donor information for each patient are outlined in .

principal components analysis showed that the gut microbiota profile of the donors was distinct from that of the participants in the fmt arm at baseline  .at the end of follow-up a significant decline in hbeag titer rather than hepatitis b surface antigen hbsag titer was observed in the fmt arm compared to that at the baseline fig.

moreover hbeag titer declined gradually after each round of fmt .

in contrast to that none of the control patients achieved hbeag clearance 0 of 13 at the conclusion of the study p 5 0.0001 mantel-cox's test fig.

no hbeag seroconversion was observed at the end of follow-up.

b compared to that at the baseline significant decline in hbeag titer is observed than that in the control arm at the end of follow-up p 5 0.0002 mann-whitney u test.

c occurrence of hbeag clearance in two arms p 5 0.0001 mantel-cox's test.

