5 2017correspondenceblood microbiota as a potential noninvasive diagnostic biomarker for liver fibrosis in severely obesepatients choose carefully to the editorwe read with great interest the recent article by lelouvier et al.1 who investigated the relationship between liver fibrosis in patients with severe obesity and blood microbiota.

moreover blood microbiota in healthy participants should also be con- sidered to exclude those commensal bacteria in the blood.in conclusion blood microbiota analysis can be influenced by various factors including the origin of the condition.

the gut may be the major origin of blood micro- biota however an oral source for blood microbiota cannot be ignored.

koren et al.2 suggested that the atherosclerotic plaque microbiota may at least in part be derived from the oral cavity.

as an important risk factor for periodontal disease obesity may also con- tribute to bacterial translocation from the oral cavity to the blood and participate in shaping the blood microbiota.

without excluding oral disease in the enrolled participants a reliable correlation between blood microbiota and liver fibrosis cannot be estab- lished because specific bacterial signatures may also exist in patients with oral diseases but without liver fibrosis.

studying oral microbiota in addition to gut and blood micro- biota may help clarify the role of key functional bac- teria in liver fibrosis.

in addition bacterial fragments in blood cannot be equated with blood microbiota which can be easily detected using sequencing techniques.however the read numbers for each sample were not reported in the lelouvier et al.1 study.

principal coordinates analysis can pro- vide interindividual variations intuitively whereas good's coverage estimator can evaluate the sequencing depth for blood microbiota.

the operational taxo- nomic unit number and the overall composition in dif- ferent taxonomic levels should also be provided to interpret the bacterial richness of blood microbiota and its taxonomic differences.

the inclusion of all the aforementioned parameters will contribute to a com- prehensive understanding of the overall structure and composition of blood microbiota.

without considering these factors it is impossible to demonstrate the relationship between blood microbiota and liver fibrosis or arbi- trarily use the specific blood taxonomic signatures as biomarkers.zongxin ling ph.d. xia liu m.d.

in this context we recently reported that the periodontal microbiota is associated with type 2 diabetes.1 however we unfortunately had no information on the oral health status of the fibrosis cohorts for the work published in hepatology.one of the interesting features of the blood microbiome is that it incorporates different sources of bacteria and integrates multiple risk factors and clinical parameters such as origin of the patient diet living habits and medical treatment which makes the blood microbiome a powerful tool for the identi- fication of biomarkers.

1. more details about our sequencing pipeline can be found in our previous work.2 we also totally agree with dr. ling and colleagues that analysis of the blood microbiota of healthy individuals is critical                                                                        fig.

