however it is not yet known whether this change in the intestinal microbiota causes all or part of the disease or whether the change is a consequence of the disease itself.however one of the main goals of these researches is to determine how to intervene or even to positively manipu- late the composition of the intestinal microbiota favoring a greater quantity and diversity of beneficial bacteria seeking the cure of various diseases.

this positive intervention is possible with the practice of healthy living habits associated with adequate diet consumption of prebiotics probiotics and even the transplantation of feces microbiota.at the beginning of the 21st century researches seem to indicate that there will be another revolution in medicine the possibility of manipulating the intestinal microbiota opening new horizons for us humans in the ancient primi- tive and cruel war between health and disease.flavio antonio quilici prof. titular de gastroenterologia e cirurgia digestiva da puc-campinas sp brasil.arq gastroenterol  2017. v. 54 no 2 abrjun  83quilici fa.manipulation of the intestinal microbiota the medicine revolution of the 21st centuryquilici fa.

dx.doi.org10.1590s0004-2803.2017v54n2-01manipulation of the intestinal microbiota the medicine revolution of the 21st centuryquilici fa.

manipulation of the intestinal microbiota the medicine revolution of the 21st century.

it is estimated that 70 of these microorganisms are concentrated in the intestine particularly in the colon forming the intestinal microbiota with up to 1011 bacteria per milliliter.

the intestinal microbiota begins to settle from 2 to 3 years of age and from there remains relatively stable.

the beneficial bacteria interact positively with the human immune system provoking a competitive inhibition with the pathogens bacteria keeping the intestinal microbiota in a balance called eubiosis.

recent researches suggests that the normal intestinal microbiota is not simply a collection of microorganisms but reflects an interrelationship between different genre of bacteria that possibly work together to benefit the host.

a healthy microbiota plays an important role in digestion and absorption of nutrients production of vitamins maintenance of the structural and functional integrity of the intestine protection against pathogens and modulation of the inflammatory response through the interaction of the microbiota and the immunesystem gut associated lymphoid tissue - galt.the balance of the intestinal microbiota is a dynamic process constantly exposed to factors that alter the quan- tity and diversity of its bacteria which may be positive or negative.these studies15-8 have also shown that particularities of the modern lifestyle associated with intrinsic factors of the host such as unbalanced feeding excessive consump- tion of alcohol smoking stress frequent use of laxatives gastric protectors antibiotics gestation old age frequent constipation or diarrhea contribute to negative changes in the microbiota.

o manejo da microbiota intestinal a revolucao medica do seculo xxi.

20156269.martinello f roman cf souza pa. effects of probiotic intake on intestinal bifidobacteria of celiac patients.

20156512.moraes ac silva it almeida-pititto bd ferreira sr. intestinal microbiota and cardiometabolic risk mechanisms and diet modulation.

