however since the first report of cellulosome-like structures in anaerobic fungi more than twenty years ago the identification of dockerin-binding cohesins or scaffoldins that mediate assembly has yet to be accomplished due to a lack of genomic data functional proteomics and characterized strains.genomic analysis of five unique anaerobic fungi revealed the presence of almost 1600 total dockerin domain proteins ddps proteins that contain ncdds across genera supplementary table 1 with diverse functionality primarily related to plant carbohydrate binding and biomass degradation and supplementary table 2. these include 15 glycoside hydrolase gh families 5 distinct carbohydrate-binding domains and other functions implicated in plant cell wall modification and deconstruction including pectin-modifying enzymes and expansins supplementary table 2. approximately 20 of ddps belong to spore coat protein coth and are also present in bacterial cellulosomes.

robustus mycocosm id anasp1 and the bacterial protein from acetivibrio cellulolyticus img id .among the most represented proteins in supernatant and cellulosome fractions in three diverse isolates of gut fungi and their amino-acid sequences encode hallmarks of a membrane-anchored scaffoldin molecule including an n-terminal secretion motif a c-terminal membrane anchor and a repeating amino-acid motif in between.these scaffoldins are encoded in all sequenced neocallimastigomycota representing four of the eight genera of gut fungi identified to date and absent in other fungi.

this promiscuity may confer a selective advantage of fungi over bacteria in these environments.in addition to the scaa orthologues several more uncharacterized proteins that contain n-terminal secretion signals followed by stretches of repeating amino-acid sequence motifs similar to those found in scaa were also detected via proteomic analysis supplementary table 3. we hypothesized that these proteins also function as dockerin-binding scaffoldin proteins.

first we collected all neocallimastigomycota proteins with best blastp hits to bacteria excluding top hits to other neocallimastigomycota minimume-value of 1e-5 then excised each non-ncdd pfam domain present in the neocallimastigomycota 'neo' ddp proteins and used that domain to extract the corresponding sequences from the proteins of 1774 img genomes one representative strain from each species and 394 mycocosm genomes excludingneo fungi.

using the protein references as a grouping term unique peptides belonging to each protein were counted as were all peptide- spectrum match psms belonging to all peptides for that protein that is a protein level observation count value.

2. closer examination of the sequences revealed the presence of a repeating amino-acid sequence motif that is conserved among all scaa orthologues and that occurs many times throughout these proteins fi 2. this motif is 20-30 amino acids long typically includes a gly residue immediately followed by two large hydro- phobic residues most often tyr residues and two non-consecutive downstream cys residues 2.because scaa proteins and orthologues are highly represented in secretome and cellulosome fractions from these diverse species of gut fungi we postulated that they share a common role in these systems possibly in ddp assembly.

the additional b-glucosidase conferred by gh3 in particular enables fungal cellulosomes to convert cellulose directly to fermentable monosaccharides whereas clostridial cellulosomes produce low-molecular-weight oligosaccharides.to find structural proteins that mediate the assembly of ddps we isolated the supernatant and cellulosome fractions from three of these isolates growing on reed canary grass as a sole carbon substrate.

additionally we cannot rule out that additional binding factors for example glycosylation found in native cellulosomes probably further modulate the fungal dockerin-cohesin interaction which are lacking in this recombinant system.it has previously been reported that dockerins are capable of binding to cellulosome fractions from other species of gut fungi which is a marked departure from bacterial cellulosomes.

here we describe a comprehensive set of proteins critical to fungal cellulosome assembly including conserved scaffolding proteins unique to the neocallimastigomycota.

many of the proteins associated with these complexes were identified as ghs and other plant cell wall degrading enzymes supplementary table 3. proteins found in the cellulosome fraction were particularly enriched with ncdds indicating modular complex formation.

the binding activity of purified scaa protein fragment from p. finnis was evaluated with a p. finnis single dockerin wild-type and w28f and a double dockerin the same proteins as shown inc. calculated kdapp nm and rmax response units ru double dockerin 1230 - 54 111 - 6.3 single dockerin 944 - 241 91 - 9 single dockerin w28f 3466 - 3649 61 - 50 respectively.

proteins in each fraction were digested withtrypsin 1 unit trypsin per 50 units protein and incubated at 37 degc for 3 h with shaking at 800 r.p.m.

protein sequences for each reported entry were subjected to blast analysis version 2.2.28  using a combined collection of 2784909 fungal proteins reported in the uniprot knowledgebase   and ncbi   combining all .faa files as of september 2014. results were imported into sql server and the highest-similarity identification lowest e-value highest percent similarity extracted.

phosphorylation of spore coat proteins by a family of atypical protein kinases.

taken together these results suggest that fungal scaffoldin proteins probably mediate the assembly of ddps in fungalcellulosomes as depicted by the schematic in although limited previous studies have shown that fungal cellulosomes are quite divergent from their bacterial counterparts.

