diversity and functions of the sheep faecal microbiota a multi-omic characterizationalessandro tanca1 cristina fraumene1 valeria manghina12 antonio palomba12 marcello abbondio2 massimo deligios2 daniela pagnozzi1 maria filippa addis1 and sergio uzzau121porto conte ricerche science and technology park ofsardinia tramariglio alghero italy.2department of biomedical sciences university of sassari sassari italy.summarylittle is currently known on the microbial popula- tions colonizing the sheep large intestine despite their expected key role in host metabolism physiol- ogy and immunity.

vm ap and ma were supported by doctoral fellowships from the international phd course in life sciences and biotechnologies university of sassari.together these findings unveil structure and role of the distal gut microbiota in sheep and open the way to further studies aimed at elucidating its connec- tions with management and dietary variables in sheep farming.introductionsheep farming is widespread worldwide for the purpose of meat milk skin andor wool production.

according to the specific productive purpose farmers select sheep breeds and traditionally efforts are continuously made to improve physicalgenetic traits that in turn ameliorate the production performances.regardless of the genetic background and of the pro- duction purpose a correct nutritional management plays a crucial role in warranting healthy and fertile sheep and productive dairy ewes.

2015 but much less is currently known on the microbial populations that colo- nize the large intestine despite their crucial role in the sheep intestinal metabolism.as in other non-ruminant mammalian includinghumans the microbial population that colonizes the sheep large intestine is expected to be key in providing energy antigens and metabolites that positively affect host metabolism physiology and immunity.

to reach this aim we employed an integrated multi-omic strategy compris- ing 16s rdna and shotgun metagenomic sequencing to unravel microbiota structure and genetic potential as well as metaproteomics to identify and characterize functions and pathways actively expressed by the sheep faecal microbial communities.results and discussionoptimization of protocols for dna extraction and sample clean-up for the analysis of the sheep faecal microbiotastool is a complex sample matrix with regard to dna extraction.

s1 in line with the above-stated observations.focus on glycan import and degradation abc transporters starch utilization system and glycosyl hydrolaseswe then examined functions responsible for import and degradation of glycans in view of the high content in glycans in the plant-based sheep diet and to evaluate the residual relevance of such activities in the sheep colon after the massive digestion of plant material per- formed in the rumen.first we focused on genes and proteins classified as abc transporters especially those capable of transport- ing mono- and oligosaccharides which are listed in table 2. these comprise both generic multiple sugar transport systems such as msmx ferreira and sa- nogueira 2010 and more specific transporterstargeting mono- and disaccharides such as ribose and maltose oldham and chen 2011 clifton et al.

fungi and protists.these findings and the whole data set provided herecan be useful for deepening our understanding on orga- nization and role of the large intestine microbiota in small ruminants and pave the way to further studies investi- gating the relationship between gut microbiota dynamics and management and dietary variables key for sheep farming.experimental proceduresanimal description and faecal sample collectionfaecal samples were collected from the rectal ampulla of five lactating sarda sheep in november 2012. contact with the surrounding environment was minimized by transferring the faecal material immediately from the rec- tum to the collection tube.

this study reports the first char- acterization of the sheep faecal microbiota composition and functions obtained through the application of a multi-omic strategy.

an optimized protocol was first devised for dna extraction and amplification from sheep stool samples.

under a taxo- nomic perspective the sheep faecal microbiota appeared globally comparable to that of other rumi- nants with firmicutes being the main phylum.

in functional terms we detected 2097 gene and 441 protein families finding that the sheep faecal micro- biota was primarily involved in catabolism.

sheep are grazers and eat a vari- ety of plants including grass clover and weeds.

in addi- tion to pasture grazing sheep are generally fed with hay and a controlled amount of grain.

the plant mass is first fer- mented by the ruminal microbial communities and a large part of the organic matter is then degraded and partially adsorbed in the sheep four-chambered stomach.

2003. in addition a number of ruminal bacteria have been described to be involved in the iso- merization and saturation of the dietary unsaturated fatty acids leading to the sheep milk saturated fat composi- tion huws et al.

