We conclude that addition of BMO to the HF diet com- pletely prevented increases in intestinal permeability and microbial dysbiosis and was partially effective to prevent weight gain in DIO.NEW  NOTEWORTHY This study provides the first report of the effects of prebiotic bovine milk oligosaccharides on the host pheno- type of high-fat diet-induced obesity in mice.prebiotic epithelial permeability obesity adiposityTHE GASTROINTESTINAL TRACT GI is the first site of diet mi- crobe and host interaction 42 thus targeting the microbiota and preventing the dysbiosis that occurs in response to a high-fat HF diet may prevent the alteration in gut function and regulation of food intake and body weight.

Data were analyzed using one-way or two-way ANOVA testing diet time and diet X time factors with Bonferroni post hoc tests.

After 3 and 6 wk mice fed a HF diet weighed significantly more than mice fed a C diet Fig.

Two-way ANOVA P values displayed for diet time and interaction followed by Bonferroni's post hoc test abP  0.05.between samples from HF  I-fed mice is greatest both between each other and other diet groups Fig.

Interestingly Bifido- bacterium abundance was not significantly different due to diet after LEfSe analysis comparing significant difference in abun- dance between diet groups.Data from week 6 showed that increased intestinal permea- bility in the colon was significantly associated with weight gain and increased total fat cumulative food intake adipocyte size LBP number of fat depots in the liver relative abundance of Adlercreutzia and expression of caveolin-1 in the colon form- ing cluster a.

This cluster contained only mice fed HF diet butit did not include all mice fed HF diet in part due to variability in weight gain.

Relative abundances of bacterial genera that significant changed due to diet in the cecumWeek 1Week 6Other unclassified genus.supplementation of the HF diet with BMO attenuated weight gain and decreased cumulative caloric intake and adiposity.

We were the first to show that a HF diet differentially influences gut permeability in the small and large intestine and that these changes are depen- dent on length of time on the HF diet 26.

We conclude that addition of BMO to the HF diet was most effective in preventing weight gain and increasing concentra- tions of SCFA compared with inulin furthermore mainte- nance of intestinal permeability in the presence of a HF diet is not sufficient to prevent obesity.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe thank Richard Stevens and Felicia Goldsmith for assistance with mouse experiments real-time PCR and SCFA analysis.MILK OLIGOSACCHARIDES AND OBESITYTable 10.

We hypoth- esized that supplementation with bovine MO would prevent the deleterious effect of HF diet on the gut microbiota and intestinal permeability and attenuate development of the obese phenotype.

