such mice display increased ectopic fat deposition in the liver associated with glucose intol- erance 1415. high levels of certain dietary components may initialize high-fat diet associated inflammation either directly 16 17 or indirectly via formation of immuno-regulatory lipid mediators 18. additionally diet-induced changes of the gut microbiota can activate inflammatory pathways resulting in insulin resistance and dysregulated glucose homeostasis 19 20. recent studies have emphasized the importance of diets in regulation of the gut microbiota composition 21 22 which in turn modulate host lipid metabolism including liver lipid profiles 23 and host glucose metabolism 24 25. of note high-fat diets as well as specific dietary fat sources in- dependently shape the microbiota 22 26 and this may in turn regulate metabolism via changes in production of sc- fas branched chain amino acids and secondary bile acids 25 27 28. thus information on how specific dietary lipids affect the microbiota and how the microbiota in turn affect host metabolism is important in order to understand the de- velopment of the metabolic consequences of energy-dense diets.here we investigated the effects of prolonged intake of ann-6 pufa-rich high-fathigh-sucrose hfhs diet on glu- cose homeostasis insulin sensitivity inflammation and gut microbiota in male c57bl6j mice.

8d no differences were found between the diets indicating that dif- ferences in scfas in the gut did not contribute to glucose intolerance.discussionreports on glucose intolerance in the absence of insulin re- sistance are sparse although this phenotype has previouslybeen observed in mice fed a hfhs diet with a high pro- teincarbohydrate ratio 29 and in mice with impaired in- flammatory responses preventing high-fat diet-induced adi- pose tissue expansion 14. here we found that c57bl6j mice fed a safflower oil based n-6 pufa-rich hfhs diet exhibited early onset of glucose intolerance prior to increased fat mass and before development of insulin resistance.

2014-15-2934-01027.indirect calorimetryafter 4 wk on diets and a 3-day acclimatization period activity o2 and co2 gas exchange measurements were determined for a 72-h period as previously described 29.insulin and glucose tolerance testseparate groups n  5 experiment repeated once of mice were used for insulin and glucose tolerance tests.

l glucose tolerance test at 5 10 and 40 wk on diet and m area under the curve from glucose tolerance test.

in contrast mucispirillum has been associated with high-fat diets and glucose intolerance 36 but since we only observed late changes in this genus it seems unlikely to be the cause of early induction of glucose intolerance.

detailed analyses of immune cell subsets within ewat liver and spleen sub- stantiated that no inflammation was evident in the examined organs before week 40. a general depletion of hepatic im- mune cells at week 40 in hfhs-fed mice is consistent with previous results showing depletion of natural killer t cells and cd4 t cells in inflamed liver 47. however to our knowledge hepatic depletion of neutrophils eosinophils ba- sophils b cells and cd8 a t cells in hfhs-fed mice has not been described previously.in conclusion our study report on an unusual condition where intake of a diet based on high levels of safflower oil and sucrose normally considered to be highly obesogenic resulted in moderate and delayed weight gain and adiposity without changes in immune cell abundance and homa-ir before week 40. yet hfhs-fed mice exhibited impaired glucose tolerance already after week 5. we found marked changes in the composition of the gut microbiota preceding the development of glucose intolerance and concomitant with late initiation of inflammation at week 40 but the relation be- tween these changes and the metabolic phenotypes remains unclear.

research articlea safflower oil based high-fathigh-sucrose diet modulates the gut microbiota and liver phospholipid profiles associated with early glucose intolerance in the absence of tissue inflammationniels banhos danneskiold-samsoe1 daniel andersen2 ilinca daria radulescu3ann normann-hansen1 asker brejnrod1 marie kragh2 tobias madsen2 christian nielsen2 knud josefsen3 xavier frette' 4 even fjaere5 lise madsen15 lars i. hellgren2 susanne brix2 and karsten kristiansen161 laboratory of genomics and molecular biomedicine department of biology university of copenhagen copenhagen denmark2 department of biotechnology and biomedicine technical university of denmark lyngby denmark3 rigshospitalet department 3733 copenhagen biocenter the bartholin institute copenhagen denmark4 department of chemical engineering biotechnology and environmental technology university of southern denmark odense m denmark5 national institute of nutrition and seafood research bergen norway6 bgi-shenzhen shenzhen chinascope omega-6 n-6 pufa-rich diets are generally considered obesogenic in rodents.

compared to the low-fatlow-sucrose diet intake of the safflower-based hfhs diet only led to moderate weight gain while glucose intolerance developed at week 5 prior to signs of inflammation but concurrent with increased levels of linoleic acid and arachidonic acid in hepatic phospholipids.

conclusion we suggest that a diet-dependent increase in the n-6 to omega-3 n-3 pufa ratio in hepatic phospholipids together with gut microbiota changes contributed to early development of glucose intolerance without signs of inflammation.keywordsglucose intolerance  hepatic lipid metabolism  inflammation  leucocytes  saf- flower oiladditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived june 23 2016revised november 15 2016accepted december 12 2016correspondence niels banhos danneskiold-samsoee-mail abbreviations cpt1a carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1a ewat epididymal white adipose tissue fcs fetal calf serum hfhs high-fathigh-sucrose homa-ir homeostatic model assess-ment lfls low-fatlow-sucrose n-3 omega-3 n-6 omega-6tnf-atnfa tumor necrosis factor aadditional corresponding author susanne brixe-mail additional corresponding author karsten kristiansene-mail these authors contributed equally to this work.introductionduring several decades vegetable oils were regarded as healthier than saturated fats and intake of omega-6 n-6 pufa increased following recommendations by health au- thorities and because of the increased use of vegetable oil for animal feed 1. however the health-beneficial effects of increased intake of vegetable oils especially oils rich in linoleic acid have later been challenged as epidemiological studies and animal studies indicated that high intake of n-6 pufas was associated with increased adiposity 2-5. fur- thermore several animal studies showed that the obesogenic effect of n-6 and also of omega-3 n-3 pufas was modulated by the type of carbohydrate and the balance between carbo- hydrates and protein in the diet 6-10. in animal studies most obesogenic diets are based on high levels of saturated fat especially from lard.

consequently little is known as to how prolonged high intake of n-6 pufas affects metabolism glucose tolerance insulin sensitivity and systemic low-grade inflammation.in general high-fathigh-glycemic carbohydrate rich diets are associated with low-grade systemic inflammation which decreases insulin sensitivity 11-13. by contrast local inflam- mation is necessary for healthy expansion of white adipose tissue evident in mice lacking key inflammatory mediators or pro-inflammatory cell types.

we observed that the mice became glucose intolerant prior to significant changes in body fat mass and without a measurable significant de- crease in systemic insulin sensitivity.

glucose intolerance was associated with changes in the gut microbiota and hep- atic lipid profiles without concomitant inflammatory changes in visceral fat liver and spleen.materials and methodsanimalsindividually housed c57bl6j bomtac male mice 8 wk of age taconic ejby denmark with free access to water were fed a low-fatlow-sucrose lfls diet ssniff germany s8672-e050 ad libitum at room temperature 21-24degc with a 12-h light and dark cycle.

for glucose tolerance test mice were in- jected i.p.

blood glucose was measured using a glucometer contour bayer.termination and tissue harvestbefore dissection mice were anesthetized with hyp- normmidazolam and venous blood collected followed by systemic perfusion with pbs.

beng liao jiliao 0.001. outliers were detected using the grubbs' test in r v3.1.3.resultsc57bl6j mice fed a safflower oil based n-6 pufa-rich hfhs diet develop early glucose intolerance in absence of insulin resistancemice were fed a safflower-oil-based hfhs diet or a lfls diet for 40 wk supporting information table 3. compared to the lfls-fed mice mice on the hfhs diet had no signifi- cant weight gain until week 28 fig.

