and as we now reveal also play a role in behavioural pho- toacclimation aggregation of cryoconite into granules thus en- hances community production by supporting a stable cooper- ative microbial community enabling physical migration to cope with the extreme glacier surface environment.behavioural downregulation of photochemistry chloroplast movement andor cell positioning within the sediment has therefore been demonstrated for cryoconite phototrophic com- munities but what is the role of physiological downregulation in the form of npq in green algae and diatoms and state tran- sitions in cyanobacteria for these phototrophs calculation of npq from the change in maximum fluorescence yield during in- creasing incremental rlcs indicated an initial reversal of npq retained from exposure to ambient light prior to measurements highlighting npq as an important mechanism of downregula- tion employed by cryoconite communities in situ.

5table 1. species composition of cryoconite material pooled for three cryoconite holes.figure 2. cyanobacteria and algae from longyearbreen cryconite a nostoc sp.

the sediment layers remained intact nonetheless mobile sediment particles were observed moving across the ice surface in the meltwater irvine-fynn bridge and hodson .cryoconite phototrophic community compositionepifluorescence microscopy on cryoconite material revealed the presence of a number of different green algal and cyanobac- terial taxa in the three different cryoconite holes sampled table .

microb ecol 200652644-54.takeuchi n. optical characteristics of cryoconite surface dust on glaciers the relationship between light absorbency and the property of organic matter contained in the cryoconite.

fems microbiology ecology 93 2017 fix018doi 10.1093femsecfix018advance access publication date 18 february 2017 research articleresearch article photoacclimation by arctic cryoconite phototrophsrupert g. perkins elizabeth bagshaw lisa mol christopher j. williamson dan fagan maggie gamble and marian l. yallop1cold climate research school of earth and ocean sciences cardiff university park place cardiff cf10 3at uk 2department of geography and environmental management uwe bristol coldharbour lane bristol bs16 1qy uk and 3school of biological sciences life sciences building university of bristol 24 tyndall avenue bristol bs8 1tq ukcorresponding author cold climate research school of earth and ocean sciences cardiff university park place cardiff cf10 3at uk.

0044 02920 875026 e-mail one sentence summary ice sheet cryoconite phototrophs utilise a complex mixture of behaviour and physiological downregulation to survive productively in this extreme environment.editor gary kingabstractcryoconite is a matrix of sediment biogenic polymer and a microbial community that resides on glacier surfaces.

photoacclimation of the cryoconite phototrophic community on longyearbreen svalbard was investigated using in situ variable chlorophyll fluorescence.

these findings demonstrate that cryoconite phototrophs combine multiple forms of physiological and behavioural downregulation to optimise light exposure and maximise photosynthetic productivity.

this plasticity of photoacclimation enables them to survive productively in the high-light stress environment on the ice surface.keywords cryoconite photoacclimation downregulation non-photochemical quenching productivity fluorescenceintroductioncryoconite cryo  ice conite  dust is an important compo- nent of the glacier ecosystem.

microorganisms in cryoconite are typically sourced from the surrounding environ- ments and include cyanobacteria microalgae archaea bacte- ria fungi and heterotrophic protists cameron hodson and os- born  edwards et al.

in this paper we use in situ variable chlorophyll fluorescence to inves- tigate cryoconite community photophysiology in order to gain insight into their adaptation to high light intensity 24 h pho- toperiods and hence the resulting high photodose and rapid light intensity fluctuation.glacier surface microorganisms have been demonstrated to impact on ice surface albedo takeuchi  yallop et al.

demonstrated that highly pigmented populations of algae are widespread in marginal zones of the greenland ice sheet both concentrated in cryoconite and living directly on the ice surface.

these tightly- knit granules give structure to the cryoconite community with heterotrophic organisms concentrated in the centre and pho- totrophs around the outside which promotes community sta- bility on the constantly changing glacier surface.

during the summer months cryoconite is regularly redistributed by flow- ing meltwater irvine-fynn bridge and hodson  hence granule formation may be an adaptation to promote community longevity bagshaw et al.

made a comparative study of arctic and antarctic cry- oconite using combined oxymetry and fluorescence also on ex situ cryoconite material in a cuvette system.

