bbr treatment revealed a positive effect on butyrate production similar to that observed in the hfd- hamsters c  d. in an inverse correlation with the level of blood butyrate blood tc tg and fbg went down in the ob ob mice treated with butyrate c d  e. this reduction positively correlated with the dosage of butyrate and the treatment time c d  e demonstrating the regulatory effect of butyrate on the metabolism of lipids and glucose.

an aliquot of 1 ml of the supernatant was injected into the gc-2014 for butyrate analysis.obob mice modeleighteen obob mice were randomly divided into 3 groups 6 mice were given a low dose of butyrate treatment 200 mgkgd group 1 6 were given a high dose of butyrate 400 mgkgd group 2 and 6 were given the bbr treatment 100 mgkgd group 3. the drugs were administered orally and once a day for 10 days.

accordingly tc tg and ldl-c significantly decreased in hfd-hamsters as com- pared to that before treatment d p  0.001 for all three.increasing butyrate production in the gut microbiota is a newly discovered mechanism of bbr in reducing blood lipid and glucose levelsto elucidate the role of butyrate obese obob mice were treated directly with an oral administration of butyrate sodium using bbr as a reference.

although the plasma butyrate level in the bbr-treated obob mice was lower than that in the mice directly treated with butyrate b p  0.05 day 7 and 10 the lipids and glucose- lowering efficacy of bbr was in general higher than that of direct butyrate treatment c p  0.01 on day 10 ep  0.01 on day 7 and 10. the results indicate that the butyratemechanism played a role in lowering blood lipid and glucose levels in addition to the direct action of the circulated bbr.to elucidate the direct effect of bbr in a bacteria-free condition we treated the obob mice with ip bbr.

this is because it has been reported that ptbbuk gene knockout mutants showed no decrease in butyrate produc- tion in c. tyrobutyricum  as butyrate is an end product of the energy metabolism network in bacteria a. there- fore the molecular mechanisms involved in bbr-mediated increase of butyrate in bacteria need further investigation.although the presented work investigates the role of the gut microbiota in the mode of action of bbr the finding is of particular significance to herbal medicines because herbal chemicals are often poorly absorbed in the intestines .

intraperitoneal bbr administration did not increase butyrate but reduced blood lipid and glucose levels suggesting that bbr has two modes of action the direct effect of the circulated bbr and the indirect effectabbreviations scfas short-chain fatty acids ldlr low-density lipoprotein receptor insr insulin receptor ampk amp-activated protein kinase pcsk9 proprotein convertase subtilisin kexin 9 ptp1b protein tyrosine phosphatase 1b bbr berberine tc total cholesterol ldl-c low-density lipoprotein cholesterol tg triglycerides lc-msms liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry gc gas chromatography hfd high-fat diet ip intraperitoneal pgf pseudo-germ-free gapdh glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase nadh nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate nad nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide buk butyrate kinase but butyryl-coaacetate-coa transferase ptb phosphotransbutyrylase ffar2 free fatty acid receptor 2 ffar3 free fatty acid receptor 3 gpcr g protein-coupled receptor.

bacterial butyrate is mainly synthesized through the acetyl coa-butyryl coa- butyrate pathway in which the key enzymes are regulated based on the level of atp and nadh .

in this study we show that bbr enriched butyrate-producing bacteria in the gut microbiota and through the acetyl coa-butyryl coa- butyrate pathway bbr promotes the gut microbiota to synthe- size butyrate which then enters the blood and causes a reduction in blood lipid and glucose levels.

the injector and detector temperatures were set at 230 degc and 250 degc respectively.m e t a b o l i s m c l i n i c a l a n d e x p e r i m e n t a l 7 0  2 0 1 7  7 2 - 8 475bbr-mediated butyrate production in intestinal bacteria of the sd ratsa series of butyrate working solutions were prepared at concentrations of 1 2 10 20 200 and 500 mgml by diluting the stock solution 1 mgml with purified water.

the tests were carried out according to the manufacturer's instructions in the kits.gene expression of butyrate kinase and butyryl-coaacetate-coa transferasea quantitative real-time rt-pcr assay method was used to measure the gene expression of butyrate kinase buk and butyryl-coaacetate-coa transferase but.

a treating sprague-dawley sd rat intestinal bacteria with bbr 10 and 20 mgml in vitro increased butyrate concentrations in the culture p  0.05 andp  0.01 heat inactivation of intestinal bacteria abolished the effect of bbr on butyrate production insert.

c butyrate level in the feces and plasma decreased in hamsters fed an hfd for 6 weeks accordingly the levels of blood tc tg and ldl-c significantly increased in the hfd hamsters 6 weeks as compared to those in healthy hamsters p  0.001 n  6. d bbr treatment oral 100 mgkgday for 10 days significantly increased the level of butyrate in the feces and blood of the hfd- hamsters.

accordingly the levels of blood tc tg and ldl-c in the hfd hamsters decreased after 10 days of bbr therapy p  0.001 n  6.78m e t a b o l i s m c l i n i c a l a n d e x p e r i m e n t a l 7 0  2 0 1 7  7 2 - 8 4 butyrate was seen 6 h after bbr treatment 20 mgml and the elevation remained stable for at least another 18 h a. heat inactivation of the bacteria abolished the effect of bbr a insert indicating that the bacteria produced butyrate.

feeding healthy hamsters a hfd for 6 weeks significantly decreased the butyrate level in their feces and plasma by 24 and 44 respectively c and at the same time tc tg and ldl-c increased in the hamsters p  0.001 for all three c. treating the hfd-hamsters with bbr orally 100 mgkgd for 10 days increased butyrate in their feces and plasma by 1.8- and 2.5-fold d respectively verifying the butyrate-increasing effect of bbr in vivo.

as shown in f ip administration of bbr 20 mgkgd to the mice for 10 days did not increase the level of butyrate in the feces f or blood f but significantly lowered blood tc tg and fbg with an efficacy similar to that of an oral bbr treatment 100 mgkgd g.interestingly although an oral administration of bbr 100 mgkgd for 10 days showed a blood concentration 56 of the obob mice ip treated with bbr 20 mgkgd for 10 daysg insert its therapeutic efficacy was almost equal to that of the ip injection probably because it caused a significant increase of butyrate in the blood f p  0.05 on day 7 p  0.001 on day 10. the results indicate that the overall lipid and glucose-lowering effects of orally adminis- tered bbr represent a synergistic effect of at least two mechanisms.

