It is likely that characteristics of these genera allows them to flourish in the res- piratory tract while being rare in other locations such as the gastrointestinal tract .Table 1Table of common microbiota found within the regions of the respiratory tract.Microbiota of the diseased respiratory systemWhile description of the microbial community of the healthy respiratory tract is indeed interesting the comparison to commu- nities found in diseased patients has begun to offer insights into factors affecting disease that were not even considered until about a decade ago.

Indeed every surface of the human body in contact with the outside world is coated in microbes including the gastrointestinal tract from the mouth to the anus the respiratory tract from the mouth to the lungs the entirety of our skin even our eyes .

In addition to nutri- ents mucus attachment to the epithelial surface provides an adhesion site for bacteria decreasing the rate at which they are eliminated from the respiratory tract despite mucociliary beating that is generally accepted to move mucus out of the respiratory system.Many surfaces in the respiratory tract are highly amenable to sampling for bacterial community analyses including those in the oral cavity nasopharynx oropharynx anterior nares and nasal vestibule.

Likewise alterations in the diversity of microbial communities have been identified within the respiratory tract of smokers compared to non-smokers  and disease processes such as cystic fibrosis CF chronic obstructive pulmo- nary disease COPD and asthma.Cystic fibrosis is perhaps one of the best studied diseases affecting the respiratory tract in terms of bacterial community composition and shifts that may be associated with health and disease.

To date most studies in the respiratory tract of diseased individuals rely on a single sample type or do not include a large enough patient pop- ulation to determine this.Future directions in respiratory microbial researchLarge knowledge gaps remain in our understanding of the composition and function of the microbial community associated with the respiratory tract despite these large leaps in research in the last decade and a half.

eReview articleIntegrating the microbiota of the respiratory tract with the unified airway modelAlissa S. Hanshew  Marie E. Jette  Sarah P. Rosen  Susan L. Thibeault  a Environmental Health and Safety 6 Eisenhower Parking Deck The Pennsylvania State University University Park PA USAb Department of Otolaryngology University of Colorado 12631 E. 17th Avenue Aurora CO USAc Department of Surgery Division of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery University of Wisconsin-Madison 600 Highland Avenue Madison WI USAa r t i c l e i n f oArticle historyReceived 19 October 2016 Received in revised form 26 February 2017Accepted 21 March 2017Available online 22 March 2017Keywords Respiratory Bacteria Microbiotaa b s t r a c t The unified airway model has developed from indications that the upper and lower respiratory tracts share key elements of pathogenesis.

These shared traits likely extend to similar niche characteristics that support bacterial communities and as such we suspect that similar microbes exist on upper and lower respiratory tract epithelium.

In this review we provide an overview of the modern collection and sequencing methods involved in respiratory microbiota research and outline the specific microbial communities that have been found to be associated with the healthy and diseased human respiratory tract.

Demonstration of a remarkable similarity between the upper and lower respiratory tract in terms of microbiological presence adds further corroboration to the existence of a unified airway.c 2017 Published by Elsevier Ltd.ContentsIntroduction68Human microbiota e modern sequencing methods69Sampling the respiratory system as a niche for bacteria69Healthy human respiratory microbiota and the unified airway model71Microbiota of the diseased respiratory system72The unified airway and implications of the microbiota in respiratory diseases72Future directions in respiratory microbial research72Financial disclosures72Conflicts of interest72Acknowledgements73References73IntroductionRhinitis and asthma share key elements of pathogenesis and have long been noted to co-occur suggesting that the upper and Corresponding author.

Indeed the unified airway model suggests that immunolog- ical responses in one section of the respiratory tract can be linked to responses in other areas e. Data from the Human Microbiome Project HMP presents further supportive evidence of this model.

