because the results were similarin new-onset ra and chronic ra patients they were com- bined for presentation here.when the magnitude of p copri igg or iga anti- bodies in the 37 antibody-positive patients were correlated with the cytokine levels strong positive correlations were found between the iga antibody values and the levels of 3 innate cytokines ifna mip-1a and mip-1b 2 th1- associated cytokines ifng and il-12 and 3 th17- associated cytokines il-17f il-22 and il-1b figures 4a-c. in contrast igg p copri antibody values correlated only with levels of the th1 chemoattractant cxcl10 fig- ure 4b.when p copri iga absorbance values in all 120 ra patients including those with positive and negative results were correlated with the cytokine levels even stronger associations were found with innate mip-1a and mip- 1b th1 ifng and il-12 and th17 il-23 il-22 il-figure 5. prevotella copri 16s ribosomal dna rdna in concomitant serum and synovial fluid sf samples from rheumatoid arthritis ra patients as determined by polymerase chain reaction pcr analysis.

these observations provide evidence that p copri is immune- relevant in ra pathogenesis.rheumatoid arthritis ra results from a com- plex interplay between genetic and environmental factors 12. great progress has been made in the identification of genetic factors and inflammatory pathways that influ- ence the disease 13 but environmental factors are only now being determined 4. a key hypothesis is that spe- cific organisms in the mouth or microbiota in the gut the composition of which is strongly influenced by environ- mental cues may shape mucosal and systemic immune responses that affect joints in ra patients 4-7.using high-throughput sequencing scher et al8 showed that prevotella copri in the gut microbiota was overexpanded in stool samples from patients with new-onset ra compared with patients with chronic ra patients with psoriatic arthritis or healthy individuals.

although ra shared epitope alleles have been reported to correlate inversely with p copri overexpansion in the gut 8 our study showed no significant correlations between these t cell epitopes and shared epitope alleles which is consistent with the fact that these epi- topes are promiscuous hla-dr binders.while pbmcs were available only from patients with new-onset ra we were able to test for antibodyresponses to p copri in both new-onset ra and chronic ra patients.

the finding of 16s rdna of b fragilis in the sf of 1 additional patient suggests that escape of other commensal bacteria from the bowel may occur but this patient lacked an antibody response to the organism.there are parallels between the potential role of p copri in ra pathogenesis and that of the periodontal pathogen p gingivalis 2533. in patients with periodon- titis the composition of the oral flora shifts in favor of organisms particularly anaerobes such as p gingivalis that thrive in an inflammatory environment 34. igg antibody responses to p gingivalis in ra patients corre- late strongly with systemic inflammation and coexistent periodontal disease 252735. furthermore p gingivalis may disseminate from the gingiva presumably via den- dritic cells and lead to infection and inflammation at distant sites 636. dna from periodontal bacteria has been detected by pcr in sf from a few ra patients with periodontal disease 37.in conclusion our study provides evidence for the immune relevance of p copri in ra and suggests that bowel pathology may be a feature of the disease in this subgroup of patients.

although overexpansion of p copri was previously detected only in the stool of new-onset ra patients 8 we found similar frequencies of p copri antibody responses and similar clinical associations in new-onset ra and chronic ra patients suggesting that once initiated these antibody responses may persist for years.

second only 37 of the ra patients with igg p copri antibody responses had acpas compared with 74 of those who had iga p copri antibodies p 5 0.01 and 71 who lacked p copri anti- bodies p 5 0.003. there was a similar trend with rf p 5 0.08. in contrast patients with p gingivalis igg and iga antibody responses had higher frequencies of acpa and rf than did those who lacked these responses.

altogether pbmcs from 24 of the 40 patients 60 had reactivity with 1 or more of the 3 p copri peptide sequences showing that th1 immune responses to this pro- tein were common in new-onset ra patients.figure 2. igg and iga responses to prevotella copri in rheumatoid arthritis ra patients and control subjects.

altogether 15 of 127 ra patients had p copri igg or iga antibody responses.when the antibody responses to whole p copri or recombinant pc-p27 were combined 41 of the 127 ra patients 32 had igg or iga antibody reactivity with the organism.

third there was little overlap between patients with p gingivalis antibodies and those with p copri antibodies.p copri antibody responses were found primarilyin women both in those with new-onset ra and in those with chronic ra.

using lc-msms we identified hla-dr-presented peptides in synovial tissue n 5 4 sfmcs n 5 3 or pbmcs n 5 2 from 5 patients with new-onset ra or chronic ra 14. from the 17 hla-dr-presented peptides identified in the pbmcs from 1 patient with chronic ra patient ra1 1 p copri sequence was found figure 1a.

in new-onset ra patients prevotella abundance in the gut was at the expense of bacteroides fragilis an organism that is important for treg function 910.964a second metagenome-wide analysis of fecal sam- ples from ra patients showed dysbiosis in the gut as well as in the mouth and salivary glands 11. moreover a recent study in mice showed that dysbiosis contributes to arthritis development via activation of autoreactive t cells in the intestine 12. however it is unclear whether over- expansion of p copri in the human gut has the potential to affect immune cell functions at both mucosal and systemic sites thereby contributing to ra disease pathogenesis.whereas the previous studies used unbiaseddiscovery-based approaches to assess dysbiosis of micro- organisms in the oral or gut microbiome we developed an unbiased discovery-based approach to identify novel immu- nogenic t cell epitopes in patients with chronic inflamma- tory arthritis.

thus minimal overlap was observed in the antibody responses to these 2 organisms indicating that these responses are largely independent and only the response to p copri was specific for ra.very few ra patients or those with other rheu-matic diseases had igg or iga antibody responses to b fragilis or e coli that were .3 sd above the mean values in healthy control subjects figures 3c-f. however igg absorbance values for b fragilis were significantly lower in new-onset ra patients than in patients in the other groups p  0.03 figure 3c consistent with the decrease in the abundance of b fragilis noted previously in new-onset ra patients 8. conversely igg and iga absorbance values for b fragilis in the ctd group were significantly higher than those in the other groups.

only significant p values are shown.samples were also tested for reactivity with whole p gingivalis an oral periodontal pathogen implicated in ra 25 and with 2 common gut commensal organisms bacteroides fragilis and escherichia coli.similar to previous studies 2627 igg antibody responses to p gingivalis were found in 25 of our new- onset ra and chronic ra patients and these responses tended to be higher in ra patients than in the other com- parison groups figure 3a.

thus p copri anti- bodies were found primarily in women and acpas were less common in patients with igg p copri antibodies whereas neither of these factors correlated with p gingivalis antibody responses again indicating that these microbes induce distinct responses.correlation of p copri antibodies with serum cytokine and chemokine levels.

in con- trast p copri dna was not detected in sf samples from the remaining 13 patients 2 with iga p copri antibodies and 11 without p copri antibodies.

