in ch-19 sweet pepper capsicum annuum l. have been studied as alternative structural analogs with beneficial impact on body compo- sition 14. kawabata and colleagues 15 reported that a 2- week daily administration of 0.4 gkg capsinoids decreased body weight and total body fat in normal and moderately overweight men by sympathic nervous activation.

the find- ing that our 12-week intervention with a product formulation spiked with 0.15 mg nonivamide lead to a decrease in total body fat -0.61 - 0.36  in moderately overweight subjects compared to controls p  0.01 clearly points to a long-term effectiveness of nonivamide.although long-term human intervention studies investi- gating the effect of pungent compounds are sparse the major pungent principle of red pepper capsaicin is already consid- ered as an antiobesity agent 30. lejeune and colleagues 31 reported that a 3-month daily administration of capsules con- taining 135 mg capsaicin after a 4-week low-energy diet did not change body fat in moderately overweight men but did enhance lipid oxidation.since capsaicin evaluated with 16 100 000 scoville heat units shu evokes a sharp pain in the oral cav- ity and induces sensations of pressure heartburn 32 and gastrointestinal symptoms 33 implementation of capsaicinfigure 4. subject-matched changes in the al- pha diversity quantified in the stool micro- biota control group  5 nonivamide group 4 for the shannon diversity estimator a and the inverse simpson diversity estimator b. no changes were statistically significant as determined by analysis of variance testing.in the human diet for body weight management is limited.

in one of our previous cross-over human intervention trials we demon- strated a satiating effect of a single bolus administration of nonivamide in moderately overweight subjects 17. here our primary hypothesis was that continued bolus doses of 0.15 mg nonivamide over 12 weeks will lead to a reduced body weight and total body fat in healthy overweight subjects.

body height was obtained with a precision of 0.1  by means of a stadiometer seca 213 germany and body weight was deter- mined with a digital scale seca bella 840 germany to the nearest of 0.1 kg.the present study was performed according to the guide- lines laid down in the declaration of helsinki and all proce- dures were approved by the ethical committee of the city of vienna reference no.

table 1 shows the characteristics of the study participants.test day protocolat day 1 baseline and day 84 end body composition was assessed with a bod podqr cosmed usa concord ca a total body densitometry based on air displacement plethys- mography technology after an overnight fast at 800 a.m. afterward volunteers participated in a standard oral glucose tolerance test ogtt 75 g glucose dissolved in 300 ml wa- ter.

differences p  0.05 in percentages of body fat mass and body weight changes within the groups were assessed performing a paired student's t-test whereas differences between the groups c and nv were calculated performing a two-sample student's t- test.

none of the volunteers in the nonivamide group complained about pungency when consuming the product formulation.figure 1. mean changes in body weight a and body fat b after 12-week intervention in the control n  9 and nonivamide n 10 group.

in sheep serotonin injection 40 ugkg body weight enhanced plasma concentrations of lipids and was as- sociated with decreased concentrations of plasma bile acids 42. thus in humans the effects of peripheral serotonin on lipid metabolism and in the long-term maintenance of body fat and its underlying mechanisms warrant further investiga- tions.

effects of ch-19 sweet a non-pungent cultivar of red pepper in decreasing the body weight and suppressing body fat accu- mulation by sympathetic nerve activation in humans.

research articlea 12-week intervention with nonivamide a trpv1 agonist prevents a dietary-induced body fat gain and increases peripheral serotonin in moderately overweight subjectschristina m. hochkogler1 barbara lieder12 petra rust3 david berry4 samuel m. meier5 marc pignitter2 alessandra riva4 alina leitinger1 anne bruk1 simone wagner3joachim hans6 sabine widder6 jakob p. ley6 gerhard e. krammer6 and veronika somoza121 christian doppler laboratory for bioactive aroma compounds university of vienna vienna austria2 department of nutritional and physiological chemistry faculty of chemistry university of vienna vienna austria3 department of nutritional sciences faculty of life sciences university of vienna vienna austria4 division of microbial ecology department of microbiology and ecosystem science faculty of life sciences university of vienna vienna austria5 department of analytical chemistry faculty of chemistry university of vienna austria6 symrise ag holzminden germanyscope a bolus administration of 0.15 mg nonivamide has previously been demonstrated to reduce energy intake in moderately overweight men.

this 12-week intervention investigated whether a daily consumption of nonivamide in a protein-based product formulation promotes a reduction in body weight in healthy overweight subjects and affects outcome measures asso- ciated with mechanisms regulating food intake e.g.

changes in the body composition and plasma concentrations of satiating hormones were determined at fasting and 15 30 60 90 and 120 min after a glucose load.

after treatment a group difference in body fat mass change -0.61 - 0.36 in nv and 1.36 - 0.38 in c and an increase in postprandial plasma serotonin were demonstrated.

plasma metabolome and fecal microbiome read outs were not affected.conclusions a daily intake of 0.15 mg nonivamide helps to support to maintain a healthy body composition.keywordsbody composition  capsaicin  nonivamide  peripheral serotonin  satietyadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived august 19 2016revised december 5 2016accepted december 12 2016correspondence veronika somozae-mail abbreviations anova analysis of variance auc area underintroductionobesity is one of the most prevalent health problems world- wide and is associated with various comorbidities such as di- abetes mellitus type ii dyslipidemia chronic inflammationcurve delta auc auc ffa free fatty acids glp-1 glucagon- like peptide1 ogtt oral glucose tolerance test otu opera- tional taxonomic unit permanova permutational multivariateanova pyy peptide yy 3-36 trpv1 transient receptor poten- tial vanilloid subtype 1 vas visual analog scalecardiovascular diseases and metabolic syndrome 1. im- paired mechanisms of satiety and the resulting overeating are the major risk factors for the onset of obesity.

16.006. nonivamide has recently been demon- strated to increase peripheral serotonin and to reduce ad libi- tum energy intake from a standardized breakfast 17. mech- anistic studies in vitro not only verified the stimulating ef- fect of nonivamide on serotonin release 18 but also demon- strated inhibiting effects on fatty acid uptake and adipogene- sis in differentiated caco-2 cells 19 and in 3t3-l1 cells 20 respectively.the aim of this 12-week human intervention study was to elucidate the effects of a long-term administration of0.15 mg nonivamide per day to moderately overweight subjects on body composition plasma concentrations of hunger- and satiety-associated hormones serotonin peptide yy 3-36 pyy glucagon-like peptide 1 glp-1 and ghre- lin and parameters of glucose and lipid metabolism such as glucose triglycerides free fatty acids and endogenous metabolites.

