to assess the production of acetate in c. jejuni strains we inoculated c. jejuni into campylobacter defined medium cdm and monitored produc- tion of acetate during growth of the wt strain and acetogenesis mutant for up to 32 h. cdm contains all amino acids with most amino acids around 1 mm and serine the most abundant at 19 mm and the keto acids pyruvate and a.-ketoglutarate 5 to 9 mm which together are the primary carbon sources for c. jejuni during growth in this medium .

we next inves- tigated whether genes dependent upon the acetogenesis pathway for wt levels offig 4 transcriptional analysis of acetogenesis-dependent genes of c. jejuni a and b. semiquantitative real-time pcr analysis of transcription of a subset of genes initially identified by microarray analysis of wt c. jejuni and c. jejuni dpta acka.

these data indicate that lactate has an opposite effect on transcription of the scfa-influenced genes in wt c. jejuni with lactate possibly functioning in vivo to dampen expression of these genes in the upper regions of the intestinal tract where lactate is a predominant metabolite over scfas and c. jejuni colonizes less efficiently.we next analyzed the net effect of a mixture of lactate and butyrate on gene expression in wt c. jejuni.

thus we propose that c. jejuni monitors scfas in the environment to initiate production of catabolic pathways and colonization factors necessary for commensalism and persistence in favored niches in the natural avian host.discussionin this work we discovered that c. jejuni responds to common intestinal metabolites by altering transcription of genes required for commensal colonization of a naturalfig 10 in vivo expression of the acetogenesis-dependent genes in c. jejuni colonizing different regions of the avian intestinal tract.

the levels of expression of ggt peb1c and cjj0683 in the wt c. jejuni 81-176 smr isolated from the ceca as measured by qrt-pcr were set at 1. expression of each gene in c. jejuni from different regions of the intestinal tract is shown relative to the c. jejuni isolated from the ceca.

how c. jejuni differentiates between regions of the intestinal tract to locate preferred niches to establish either a persistent asymptomatic colonization in avian species or a productive infection in humans is largely unknown.compared to many other enteric pathogens c. jejuni possesses a very limited carbo- hydrate catabolism due to lack of enzymes to utilize many sugars as a carbon source  .

the acetogenesis pathway of c. jejuni is shown on tan background.expression in c. jejuni .

indeed we observed that transcription of acka was greatly reduced in the ptatn mutant compared to wild-type wt c. jejuni data not shown.we constructed new mutants from c. jejuni 81-176 smr dasta.

on the day the chicks hatched the chicks were orally infected with approximately 100 cfu of wt c. jejuni 81-176 smr or isogenic dpta dacka or dpta acka mutants with different defects in the c. jejuni acetogenesis pathway.

in c. jejuni 81-176 a mutation has occurred that results in two separate openfig 3 analysis of growth of c. jejuni strains in rich and defined media.

c. jejuni strains were grown in mueller-hinton mh broth a or campylobacter defined medium cdm broth b in microaerobic conditions at 37degc for 56 to 80 h. strains used for analysis include wt c. jejuni 81-176 smr containing pdar1423 empty vector black circles and line 81-176 smr dpta acka containing pdar1423 empty vector blue circles and line and 81-176 smr dpta acka containing ppml1071 pta acka in pdar1423 red circles and line.

aspa had previously been shown to be required for intracellular survival in human colonic cells infection of myd88-- nramp1-- mice and commensal colonization of chicks  .table 2 condensed list of genes differentially expressed in c. jejuni 81-176 smr dpta acka compared to wt c. jejuni 81-176 smr by microarray analysisaaa subset of genes identified to be differentially expressed in mutants that were further analyzed in this work is shown here.

a complete list of genes that were differentially expressed in mutants is shown in table s1 in the supplemental material.bexpression of genes was increased or decreased by twofold in the c. jejuni dpta acka mutant compared to the wt c. jejuni.other previously identified commensal colonization determinants whose expression was reduced according to microarray analysis include cjj811760382 fedb ciai and cadf table s1 .

these systems may be important for energy production during host colonization.we did find that expression of a smaller number of genes appeared to be increased in c. jejuni dpta acka relative to wt c. jejuni and table s1.

c and d semiquantitative real-time pcr analysis of transcription of select members of the scfa-induced genes of c. jejuni in different media in wt c. jejuni and in the dpta acka mutant with or without complementation in trans.

