two studies focused solely on b. fragilis and another two studies were restricted to b. fragilis and b. thetaiotaomicron .

as found in studies reporting resistance rates in b. fragilis group bacteria isolated from clinical samples the reported prevalences from faecal samples vary sig- nificantly among studies and geographical locations.

in most studies b. fragilis and b. vulgatus constitute the majority of species isolated but in a few reports other species such as b. thetaiotaomicron and bacteroides distasonis now parabacteroides distasonis dominated .

this variability confirms the need for susceptibility testing of clinical isolates in the b. fragilis group and for conducting confirmatory studies to verify extreme find- ings reported from previous studies.conclusionwe have established a baseline of antimicrobial susceptibility rates in the b. fragilis group in relatively antibiotic-naive healthy danish children.

in addition a lit- erature review was conducted to summarise current knowledge on the antimicrobial susceptibility rates of b. fragilis group bacteria in the human gut.materials and methodsfaecal samples isolate selection procedure and identificationfaecal samples had previously been collected as part of an open cohort study investigating the role of enteroaggregative escheri- chia coli in childhood diarrhoea at danish day-care centres .

in the cohort of children examined with very limited antimicrobial exposure resistance rates in b. fragilis group isolates from faecal samples were comparable with reported ob- servations of clinical samples in denmark.

three non-duplicate isolates were isolated from each of 56 samples two non-duplicate isolates were isolated from each of 77 samples and one non-duplicate isolate was isolated from each of the remaining 37 samples with growth of b. fragilis group species.

increasing rates of reduced antimicrobial suscepti- bility in the b. fragilis group have been registered and reports of treatment failure attributed to infections with resistant b. fragilis isolates stress the importance of mapping the epidemiology of an- timicrobial resistance .

heterogeneity among results from studies of b. fragilis group antimicrobial susceptibility rates in faecal microbiota exists.c 2017 elsevier b.v. and international society of chemotherapy.

three studies included data on tzp with between 5.0 and 11.8 of isolates showing reduced susceptibility.discussionantimicrobial susceptibility of bacteroides fragilis group bacteria in healthy danish childrenthis is the first report of antimicrobial susceptibility rates in b. fragilis group bacteria from faecal microbiota of children in europe.

the literature review revealed heterogeneity between the methods applied and the results from studies on antimicrobial sus- ceptibility rates in faecal b. fragilis group bacteria.

sydenham.populations with a greater exposure to antibiotics or other possi- ble contributing factors and as a reference for future prevalence studies.the objective of this study was to report the prevalence of reduced antimicrobial susceptibility intermediate-susceptible and resistant to meropenem piperacillintazobactam tzp clindamycin and metronidazole in the b. fragilis group bacteria isolated from faecal samples from a cohort of healthy danish children.

's recent publication from iran and other studies conducted by this research group where the rates of reduced clindamycin suscepti-table 2summary of antimicrobial susceptibility rates in faecal sample bacteroides fragilis group isolates extrapolated from published studies.publicationyears ofpopulationagepersonsstrainscountryidentification method susceptibilitybreakpointspercentage with reduced susceptible ir referencesad agar dilution cli clindamycin clsi clinical and laboratory standards institute dd disk diffusion et etest eucast european committee on antimicrobial susceptibility testing imi imipenem maldi-tofms matrix- assisted laser desorptionionisation time-of-flight mass spectrometry mem meropenem mtz metronidazole nccls national committee for clinical laboratory standards tzp piperacillintazobactam.a identification method as described in the referenced publication.b - indicates that information is not available.c eucast v.4.0 breakpoints applied by the current authors.d references reported resistance rates rather than susceptibility rates so the number of intermediate-susceptible isolates could not be extrapolated for these studies.t.v.

international journal of antimicrobial agents 49 2017 573-578of three or more loose stools within 24 h. antibiotic exposure was defined as the consumption of any antimicrobial in the child's lifetime.from the collected samples that had been kept frozen at -80 degc 10-50 ml of specimen faecal matter stored in beef extract broth with 10 glycerol statens serum institut diagnostica hillerod denmark was transferred to fecalswabtm copan italia brescia italy transport tubes and was transported between laboratories at room temperature for up to 4 h before being frozen again to -80 degc.fecalswab containers were thawed at room temperature and 10 ml was plated on brucella blood agar supplemented with vitamin k vancomycin 7.5 mgml and kanamycin 100 mgml statens serum institut diagnostica and polymyxin 150 mg tablets rosco diagnostica as taastrup denmark were placed on the plates.

some studies included faecal samples prior to and after antimicrobial treatment.

