in aged flies the load and diversity of gut microbes increase perhaps as a consequence of immune dysregulation and this dysbiosis impairs gut function ultimately driving mortality -.the gut microbiota has significant effects on midgut immune responses and epithelium physiology .

therefore eluci- dating the dialogue between drosophila and its gut microbiota will benefit studies on gut devel- opment homeostasis and physiology across otherwise disparate animals.the gut response to pathogens from mucosal immunity to tissue repairbacterial pathogens are also controlled by the conjunction of physical barriers and the produc- tion of ros and antimicrobial peptides but the immune responses are induced to a higher level compared to that caused by the microbiota .

this striking structural similarity the fact that sev- eral key signaling pathways involved in immunity and tissue regeneration are conserved from drosophila to humans and the development of cutting edge techniques including live imaging and rna-seq of select cell types in the midgut  make the drosophila midgut an ideal model for revelatory studies of host-microbiome associations innate immunity tissue regeneration and arbovirus-vector interactions.drosophila as a model to dissect host interaction with its gut microbesthe microbial diversity in the drosophila gut is lower compared to that of mammals.

drosophila gut microbes also affect the cellular composition of gut epithelium .

recently a role for hemocytes the circulating immune cells of drosophila has been described in controlling inflammatory signaling and intestinal regeneration in the gut - suggesting that the interplay between immune cells and the gut epithelium is also conserved from flies to mammals.tissue repair and regeneration is integral to maintaining intestinal homeostasis in both healthy and disease states.

whether we consider the emerging notion that the gut microbiota influences host physiology the relation of gi inflammation to health and disease or that the gut of insect vectors is a first point of contact with human para- sites it is increasingly important to elucidate the complexity and plethora of interactions between the gi tract and microbes.

due to the strong conservation of both structure and func- tion of the gut epithelium the less complex microbial community that composes the drosoph- ila gut microbiota and the ease of genetically manipulating drosophila the fruit fly will continue to thrive as a workhorse for biological discoveries in this area.acknowledgmentswe thank alessandro bonfini and philip l. houtz for insightful discussions.referencesbuchon n silverman n cherry s. immunity in drosophila melanogaster--from microbial recognition to whole-organism physiology.

pearlsdrosophila as a model for homeostatic antibacterial and antiviral mechanisms in the gutxi liu1 jeffrey j. hodgson12 nicolas buchon11 cornell institute for host microbe interactions and disease department of entomology cornell university ithaca new york united states of america 2 boyce thompson institute cornell university ithaca new york united states of america open accesscitation liu x hodgson jj buchon n 2017 drosophila as a model for homeostatic antibacterial and antiviral mechanisms in the gut.

the funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.a conserved midgut structure from fly to humanthe gastrointestinal gi tract serves as an active barrier and a first layer of defense against the numerous microbes that populate the gut lumen.

the gut epithelium is physically protected by the mucus layer in mammals and by a chitinous peritrophic matrix pm in drosophila  .

in both drosophila and mammals gut tissue maintenance is extremely important to help maintain physical barrier integrity and proper immune function.

a major difference is that the drosophila gut lumen is likely more of an aerobic environment because of its limited size in contrast to some parts of the mammalian gi tract.

reassociated with one or more bacteria provide a less complex approach for in-depth analyses of the impact individual microbes have on gut andor whole fly homeostasis.

for example acetobacter pomorum and lactobacillus plantarum trigger the insulin and target of rapamycin tor pathways respectively both ofparallels between the drosophila and mammalian gut epithelia.

the mucus layer protects the gut epithelial cells from direct contact with commensal microbes.

