The tool found 167 unique accessions across the samples and an easy to use searchable and sortable sample hits table is provided and best experienced from the browser where the table can be collapsed based on taxonomy and sample viral hits can be downloaded as a text file ready for Excel import.Our user guide provides screenshots and directions on filtering the sample hits table and using the filtering function we found Human Herpes hits on a HMP blood sample SRS072276 where herpes in hematological samples have been reported in a prior microbiome and hematopoiesis report Our results showed that virus population profiles are unique across body sites reported also in ViromeScan and visually shownTable 2 NGS samples used in Vipie validation from Human Microbiome Project Africa study and diarrhea sample sourced in Japan gastroenteritis outbreak.

The sample set consists of a blood nasal stool and vagina data from Human Metagenome Project HMP b diarrhea sample from gastroenteritis out- break DRA004165 DNA Data Bank Japan used in VirusTAP and c stool data from in-house ongoing African metagenomics project Table lists rele- vant accession identifiers sources and number of reads along with result links.

The script and Vipie results used for computing this statistics are avail- able with README in Vipie project page on SourceForge.

For comparison VirusTAP processing up to assembly with 1 sample 2 million reads 172 MBs took 17 min Input upload time is not included as it is dependent completely on local network speed.. Vipie process the same sample in 32 min includ- ing assembly cross validation scoringremapping known reference filtering and viral dark matter processing.

The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.and producing text based outputs that are not easily interpretable -Recently released web based applica- tions Taxonomer VirusTAP  Virome and Metavir   have addressed some of the issues espe- cially those of user interaction but mostly operate only on single sample experiments with different workflows.

The 20 HMP samples used for its validation only the stool samples passed QC and likely due to timing the other sample types were not available on HMP download page.

a The chart shows the number of NGS reads retained per sample through QC interlacing and de novo assembly.

The de novo assembly step im- plements random subsampling on user defined read per- centage default of 75 with a maximum of 1000000 NGS reads per sample.

ViromeScan listed 20 HMP samples but only Stool types of 4 samples passed QCIn addition to those stool samples Vipie test archive includes 4 other HMP sample types.

and viral hits of the 11 samples are accessible at and Table contains accession ids along with sample read sizes.Then performance of Vipie was compared to VirusTAP.

