The relatively low abundance of LGG in the probiotic yogurt culture explains the absence of significant increases of this strain after the probiotic yogurt test phase despite the inoculation count exceeding that which has been previously established in dairy products as adequate to ensure faecal recovery of the probiotic.

The use of gluconic acid transformed from glucono-d-lactone in combination with a probiotic dairy product could be an interesting symbiotic approach to maximise the action of the probiotic.The impact of our probiotic yogurt on the gut microbiota washighly specific to the strains that were present in the product with limited effect on the commensal microbiota.

The change in abundance of I. bartlettii was also associated with the acidified milk intake rather than the pro- biotic intervention with significant differences in the abun- dance of the OTU for the strain after acidified milk intake compared with baseline assessments FC  -17 P  004.In addition this analysis revealed further modulation of bacteria by the acidified dairy product interventions.Notably significant reductions in abundance for the species Bilophila wadsworthia were observed after both acidified milk and probiotic yogurt intakes with respect to baseline assessments FC  -15 Padj  005 after acidified milk intake FC  -13 Padj  003 after probiotic yogurt intake 3d.

Evaluations on dairy product test  evaluations on high-fat meal test CD1-5 control diet 1-5 HFM1-3 high-fat meal test days 1-3 D1-2 dairy product test day 1-2 FS1-8 faecal samples 1-8 HOMA homoeostatic model assessment hsCRP high-sensitivity C-reactive protein CCL2 chemokine ligand 2 CCL5 chemokine ligand 5.Table 1.

In addition energy expenditure assessed by Actigraph accelerometers showed no significant changes between test phases for sedentary low moderate- vigorous activity or for total accelerometer counts by test phase P  005 however a trend of higher levels of moderate- vigorous as well as total counts was observed during the run-in phase online Supplementary Table S4.Fasting analysesNo changes in fasting metabolic and inflammatory markers were observed after 2 weeks' probiotic yogurt intake compared with acidified milk intake except for CCL2 which showed a greater increase after acidified milk intake P  001 online Supplementary Table S5.

The efficacy of probiotics in promoting health remains disputed and results differ depending on the outcome of interest choice of the probiotic strain formulation of the probiotic and duration of the intervention.Abbreviations CCL5 chemokine ligand 5 CFU colony-forming units FC log 2-fold-change HFM high-fat meal test LGG Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG LPS lipopolysaccharide OTU operational taxonomic unit.Corresponding author N. Vionnet fax 41 21 692 5595 email Downloaded from .

Furthermore negligible counts for the three probiotic yogurt strains were detected for this volunteer after the con- sumption of the probiotic yogurt online Supplementary Fig.

The randomised cross-over study was conducted in fourteen healthy young men to test probiotic yogurt compared with milk acidified with 2  D--glucono-d-lactone during a 2-week intervention 400 gd.

The first type of test evaluated the postprandial response to a single dose of the assigned dairy product 800 g of probiotic yogurt or acidified milk.

The trial was registered at clinicaltrial.gov registration number NCT02230345.InterventionsTwo dairy products were tested during the study yogurt con- taining the probiotic Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG LGG ATCC 53103 and milk acidified with D--glucono-d-lactone 2  in order to mimic texture pH and physical properties of the yogurt.

