in uc while no significant differen- tial changes in taxa were noted palmitate and stearate biosyn- thesis pathways increased in relative abundance in patients achieving remission and decreased in those not achieving remis- sion q  0.087 and 0.045 respectively benjamini-hochberg adjusted c2 test.persistence of changes in the microbiome at 1 year eight patients 3 cd 5 uc provided stool samples at baseline weeks 14 30 and 54 while 13 patients 5 cd 8 uc had samples available at baseline weeks 14 and 54. persistency of treatment effect was observable at both week 30 and week 54 for both the remission and non-remission groups though only the changes in the remission group demonstrated a statistical differ- ence compared to random sampling d. specifically patients achieving remission at week 14 demonstrated highlysignificant persistency in the microbial composition at week 30 p  0.00039 and a weaker effect at week 54 p  0.019 sug- gesting that attainment of remission at week 14 is associated with durable changes in the microbiome.neural network algorithms vedonet to predict treatment responseseveral different neural network models were evaluated to predict clinical remission at week 14 a and 4b see for model details.

a.aburkholderialesroseburia inulinivoransremissionnon-remissionremissionnon-remissionbenriched in remission cd76543210enriched in remission uc6543210depleted in remission ucabcdefghijklmnopqrpathwaysfigure 2. the significantly differentiated taxa and pathways between remission and non-remission groups in baseline samplestwo taxa burkholderiales and roseburia inulinivorans were significantly more abundant in cd remission baseline samples.pathways that were significantly differentiated between remission and non-remission groups in baseline samples for cd left and uc right patients q  0.1. pathway codes a super-pathway of arginine and polyamine biosynthesis b super-pathway of branched amino acid biosynthesis c calvin-benson-bassham cycle d l-citrulline biosynthesis e dtdp-l-rhamnose biosynthesis i f super-pathway of n-acetyleglucosamine n-acetylmannosamin and n-acetylneur- aminate degradation g super-pathway of b-d-glucuronide and d-glucuronate degradation h super-pathway of hexitol degradation i l-isoleucine biosyn- thesis i j super-pathway of polyamine biosynthesis i k l-histidine degradation iii l gdp-mannose biosynthesis m acetyl-coa fermentation to butanoate ii n colonic acid building blocks biosynthesis o lipid iva biosysnthesis p n10-formyl-tetrahydrofolate biosysnthesis q pentose phosphate pathway r pyruvate fermentation to acetate and lactate ii.thirteen pathways were significantly enriched q  0.1 in baseline samples from the cd patients achieving remission compared to non-remitters including branched chain amino acid bcaa biosynthesis pathways involved in biosynthesis of l-citrulline log2-fold difference 0.812 q  0.0957 l-isoleucine from threonine log2-fold difference 0.482 q  0.02 and argi- nine and polyamine log2-fold difference 1.073 q  0.0828  b. two and three pathways were respectively significantly enriched and depleted among uc patients achieving remission q  0.1 b.longitudinal trajectory of the microbiomein cd only five taxa were significantly different in relative abundance between baseline and follow-up 24 cd patients with paired samples 10 achieving remission.

patients who attained remission were likely to have had disease for a shorter duration more likely to have a diag- nosis of cd and less likely to have had prior anti-tnf exposure p  0.05 for all table s1.baseline metagenomic composition and remission at week 14community alpha-diversity at baseline was significantly higher in cd patients who achieved remission at week 14 q  0.1 stu- dent's t test a. this did not achieve statistical signifi- cance in uc though we noted a wider range of baseline commu- nity diversity for those in remission p  0.031 f test a. this effect was only observed at the species level suggesting that fine taxonomic differences differentiate remission and non-remission groups figure s1a.

three pathways--poly- amine biosynthesis non-oxidative pentose phosphate pathway and sucrose degradation--increased in relative abundance among patients achieving remission a. in contrasta1050-5-10abcdefghijklm nopqpathwaysfigure 3. longitudinal changes in taxa and pathways between remission and non- remission groupsa and b log2-fold change log2fc in cd a and uc b patients' microbiome pathways that repre- sented significant change at week 14 follow-up in comparison with baseline samples divided into remission and non-remission groups fdr  0.1.log2fc of species that represented significant change at week 14 follow-up in comparison with baseline sample left panel cd right panel uc divided into remission and non-remission groups fdr  0.1.the persistency index p for subjects with a laterfollow-up wk30 or wk54 available.

c and d pcoa plots of baseline samples for cd c and uc d patients.e and f the top 15 most abundant species in baseline samples for cd e and uc f patients box marks the interquartile range iqr the whiskers mark the range between lower quartile-1.5 iqr and higher quartile1.5 iqr and dots mark the outliers q  0.1 q  0.01 q  0.001 ns not significant.using a prospectively recruited cohort of patients with ibd initiating gut-selective anti-integrin therapy with vedolizumab as a proof of concept we performed this study to 1 define the relationship between microbial metagenomic structure and function and clinical remission with vedolizumab induc- tion 2 to identify longitudinal trajectory of changes in the microbiome with maintenance treatment and 3 develop a comprehensive predictive model incorporating clinical and microbiome-related data to accurately classify treatment response.resultsstudy populationthe study included 85 patients with ibd 43 uc 42 cd with a mean disease duration of 13 years at the start of therapy.

in cd 17 pathways were significantly reduced on follow-up at week 14 compared to baseline of which 15 were noted only in patients achieving remission a. these included a decrease in several tricarboxylic acid cyclic tc pathways i and v types and nicotinamide adenine dinucle- otide nad salvage pathway suggesting decreased oxidative stress in patients achieving remission.

short articlegut microbiome function predicts response to anti- integrin biologic therapy in inflammatory bowel diseasesgraphical abstracthighlightsd stool metagenomes of ibd patients starting biologic therapy were prospectively assessedd higher abundance of butyrate producers at baseline in therapy-responsive cd patientsd baseline enrichment of 13 microbial pathways in therapy- responsive cd patientsd early microbial changes at week 14 persist up to 1 year in respondersauthorsashwin n. ananthakrishnan chengwei luo vijay yajnik ... betsy w. stevens thomas cleland ramnik j. xaviercorrespondencein briefgut microbiome may predict responses to clinical therapy.

similar to the vedolizumab cohort disease activity using the hbi or sccai was collected along with stool for metagenomic sequencing at baseline and at week 14. we examined the ability of the final predictive model developed in the vedolizumab cohort to classify anti-tnf remitters and non-remitters at week 14.ethics statementboth studies were approved by the institutional review board of partners healthcare and all patients provided informed consent.method detailsmicrobiome community profiling and sequencingrna and dna purification from stool aliquots was performed according to protocols optimized in the human microbiome project .

formally the index p was defined aspbcdf b-bcdf kbcdk bwhere bcdx y represents the bray-curtis dissimilarity between sample x and y and b k and f defined the baseline week 14 and later follow-up week 30 or week 54 samples.

conducted a prospective study with ibd patients initiating anti-integrin therapy.higher abundance of butyrate producers and enrichment of 13 microbial pathways at baseline in therapy-responsive cd patients was observed.

for cd patients beta-diver- sity measured was lower at baseline within the remission group compared with the non-remission group b. there was no difference in the microbiome dysbiosis index between remit- ters and non-remitters either in cd or uc figure s1b.principle component analysis pcoa did not differentiate remitters from non-remitters across different taxonomic ranks c and 1d figure s2 possibly due to similar baseline relative abundance of the top 15 most abundant species among remitters and non-remitters e and 1f.

community a-diversity was significantly higher and roseburia inulinivorans and a burkholderiales species were more abundant at baseline among cd patients achieving week 14 remission.

the mean hbi and sccai at baseline were 6 and 5.9 respectively with a mean crp of 13.2 mgl range 0.1-140. at week 14 31 patients met our primary outcome of clinical remission.

both roseburia inulinivorans and a burkholder- iales species were significantly more abundant at baseline among cd patients achieving week 14 remission compared to non-remitters q  0.0914 for r. inulinivorans q  0.0614 for burkholderiales sp.

pathways related to bcaa biosynthesis including citrulline isoleucine arginine and polyamine were enriched at baseline in cd patients who achieved week 14 remission.

