ruminococcus2 belongs to the ruminococcus genus which might be associated with hyperinsulinaemia45 intestinal permeability and hepatic inflammation.46 taken together a sn2pa fat diet supplemented with dha or ara has potential to defend against bowel disease and maintain gut health by modulating gut microbiota composition.effect of diets with sn2pa fat alone or in combination with dha or ara on faecal scfa concentrationthe total concentration of scfa including acetic acid propio- nic acid and butyric acid in the faeces of the sn2para diet group was increased by 41.9 in comparison to the sn2pa diet group p  0.0001 and increased by 11.7 in comparison with the sn2pdha diet group p  0.0001 table 2. the results were supported by previous reports including our own work that the type and amount of scfa in the gut depended on the diet and intestinal bacterial community.2147acetic acid propionic acid and butyric acid are the major scfa in the gut and regarded as microbial end products from dietary fibre fermentation.48 among these scfa the concen- tration of acetic acid was higher in sn2pdha and sn2para groups compared with the sn2pa group p  0.05 table 2. interestingly our previous work already showed that a diet with pa esterified at the sn-2 position instead of the sn-1 and sn-3 positions can increase the amount of acetic acid in the stool which can be further enhanced by the addition of dha or ara.

acetic acid is thought to be involved in lipid metabolism in liver by directly up-regulating ppara target genes and thus increase fatty acid oxidation and decrease lipid storage in the liver.49 the concentration of propionic acid and butyric acid was also observed to be higher in the sn2para fat-fed group p  0.05 table 2 compared to the sn2pa group.

there was no significant difference in perirenal fat deposition among the three groups table s4 but the epididymal fat depo- sitions in the sn2pdha and the sn2para group were signifi- cantly lower compared with the sn2pa group p  0.001. thisobservation indicated that the supplementation of sn2pa fat in combination with dha or ara had no impact on rat weightfood consumption and perirenal fat deposition but might favour epididymal fat reduction in rats after 6 weeks of feeding.effect of diets with sn2pa fat alone or in combination with dha or ara on tissue fatty acid compositionthe most striking changes in the fatty acid composition were observed in the liver tissue.

however the impact of combining pufa like dha or ara with sn2pa fat on lipid metabolism and intes- tinal microbiota compositions has not been well researched.in our previous study we have investigated the impact of sn2pa fats with different percentages of pa esterified at the sn-2 on absorptions of dietary fatty acids and calcium intesti- nal microbiota composition and short-chain fatty acid scfa production.21 this study was conducted as a continuation to investigate how a diet with sn2pa fat in combination with dha or ara might influence fatty acid composition in different rat tissues and lipid metabolism in the liver and tostudy the effect of these dietary fat compositions on theintestinal microbiota and their role in scfa production in the gut.

see doi 10.1039c7fo00094dtissues.13-5 for example diets rich in sfa caused liver total triacylglycerol tag accumulation1 whereas mufa or pufa tended to decrease liver tag.45 previous studies have demon- strated that docosahexaenoic acid dha c226n-3 and arachi- donic acid ara c204n-6 play a pivotal role in regulating lipid metabolism including hepatic and serum tag and total cholesterol content tc.6-8 therefore different dietary fatty acids can impact people's health positively or negatively through altering lipid metabolism.it is now appreciated that dietary fatty acid intake also influ- ences the gut microbiota community of the host.1 the intesti- nal microbiota consists of trillions of micro-organisms which have co-evolved with the host for a long time.

in addition wainwright et al.27 observed that supplementation of dha or ara increased dha or ara level in the brain of the mouse indicating that dha and ara could cross the blood- brain barrier and accumulate in the brain.2829 taken together sn2pa fat diets supplemented with dha or ara significantly altered fatty acid composition in rat tissues and further influ- enced the lipid metabolism.effect of diets with sn2pa fat alone or in combination with dha or ara on serum metabolic markersthe sn2pdha fat-fed group had a lower tag level compared to the sn2pa fat-fed group p  0.05 table 1. the reduction oftable 1 plasma variables liver weight and hepatic tag levels in rats fed high-fat dietsthe results are the mean - sd of 9 animals per group.

moreover the content of linoleic acid c182 in the liver brain epididymal and perirenal adipose tissues was higher in the sn2pdha and the sn2para groups compared with the sn2pa group p  0.05 tables s5-s8 which is in agreement with the inhibitory function of dha and ara on d6-desaturase function.26 furthermore the sn2pdha fat-fed group had a higher content of palmitic acid c160 in epididymal and perirenal adipose tissue p  0.05 tables s7 and s8 and a lower content of palmitoleic acid c161 in the liver epididymal and perirenal fat p  0.05 tables s5 s7 and s8 compared with the other two dietary groups.

both genetic and environmental factors contribute to nafld development.2 increasing evidence has demonstrated that dietary fatty acids such as saturated fatty acids sfa monounsaturated fatty acids mufa and polyunsaturated fatty acids pufa may play an important role in altering lipid metabolism in differentainstitute of food and nutraceutical science school of agriculture and biology shanghai jiao tong university shanghai pr china.e-mail bwilmar shanghai biotechnology research  development center co. ltdshanghai pr chinacbeijing advanced innovation center for food nutrition and human healthbeijing technology  business university btbu beijing pr chinaddepartment of nutrition and food science university of maryland college park md usa.

w. park and r. e. goins in situ preparation of fatty acid methyl esters for analysis of fatty acid composition in foods j. food sci.

ppara peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor a fas fatty acid synthase fa fatty acid.sn2pa group.

research has shown that propionic acid can lower fatty acid content in liver and plasma exert immunosup- pressive actions and might improve tissue insulin sensi- tivity.5051 additionally butyric acid has been shown to play an important role in colonic health.52 together a diet of sn2pa fat in combination with ara or dha increased faecal scfa levels which is likely due to the promotion of gut bacteria like allobaculum which are responsible for scfa production.

m. gura v. nose b. r. bistrian and m. puder docosahexaenoic acid and arachidonic acid prevent essen- tial fatty acid deficiency and hepatic steatosis j. parenter.

2017 8 1793received 17th january 2017 accepted 7th april 2017doi 10.1039c7fo00094dthe impact of dietary sn-2 palmitic triacylglycerols in combination with docosahexaenoic acid or arachidonic acid on lipid metabolism and host faecal microbiota composition in sprague dawley ratsjianchun wana songyou hub jorg j. jacobyb jie liuc yaqiong zhanga and liangli lucy yudsn-2 palmitic acid triacylglycerols sn2pa fat and polyunsaturated fatty acids are thought to influence the metabolic status and intestinal bacterial population of the host.

taken together the sn2pa fat diet in combi-nation with dha might modulate lipid metabolism by reducing fasting tag and tc concentrations in the plasma.effect of diets with sn2pa fat alone or in combination with dha or ara on liver mass tag level and hepatic gene expressionboth sn2pdha and sn2para fat-fed groups had lower liver weights and hepatic tag levels compared with the sn2pafat- fed group p  0.05 table 1. moreover the mrna fas fatty acid synthase expression level was down-regulated in sn2pdha and sn2para fat-fed groups compared with the sn2pa group p  0.05 fig.

and the con- centration of propionic acid was observed to be higher in the sn2pdha fat-fed group p  0.05 table 2 compared to thetable 2 faecal content of scfas in rats umol g-1and the sn2para fat-fed group compared to the sn2pa fat-fed group p  0.05 student's t test respectively.

