bmc microbiology 2017 17120doi 10.1186s12866-017-1027-1association between body mass index and firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio in an adult ukrainian populationalexander koliada1 ganna syzenko2 vladislav moseiko1 liudmyla budovska2 kostiantyn puchkov2vyacheslav perederiy2 yuriy gavalko1 andriy dorofeyev2 maryana romanenko1 sergiy tkach2 lyudmila sineok1 oleh lushchak3 and alexander vaiserman1backgroundthe epidemic of obesity around the world has become an important public health issue with serious psycho- logical and social consequences obesity is recog- nized as a multifactorial disorder which is a result of the interaction of host and environmental factors occurring when energy intake exceeds energy expenditure over time the gut microbiota is known to play an important role in energy homeostasis metagenomic studies confirm that gut microbiota in obese subjects is more efficient than that in lean subjects at recovering the energy from resistant dietary components  previ- ous animal studies provided insight into the underlying mechanisms of that phenomenon.

f. chebotarev institute of gerontology nams kiev ukraine full list of author information is available at the end of the articlecombined with effect on hepatic de novo lipogenesis via carbohydrate and sterol response-element binding pro- teins 2 enhanced cellular uptake of fatty acids and storage of triglycerides in adipocytes via suppression of intestinal expression of fasting-induced adipocyte factor which is circulating inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase 3 suppression the skeletal muscle fatty acid oxidation through a metabolic pathway involving phosphorylation of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase and 4 interaction between short chain fatty acids prod- ucts of microbial fermentation of dietary polysaccharides and g-protein-coupled receptor 41 which results in in- creased levels of enteroendocrine cell-derived hormone pyy thus reducing gut motility with subsequently in- creased intestinal transit time and absorption rate of short-chain fatty acids - microbiota can also pro- mote obesity and metabolic syndrome by inducing low- grade inflammation currently gut microbiota isc the authors.

the creative commons public domain dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.increasingly considered as a metabolic organ greatly affecting the organism's metabolism according to this point of view there is plausible reason to suppose that differences in gut microbiota may be linked to energy homeostasis thus predicting that obese and lean individuals have distinct microbiota composition with measurable difference in the ability to extract energy from the food and to store those energy as the fat presently changes in intestinal microbial composition are believed to be an important causal factor in develop- ment of obesity  the most common organisms in human gut microbiota are members of the gram-positive firmicutes and the gram-negative bacteroidetes phyla with several others phyla including the actinobacteria fusobacteria and verrucomicrobia that are present at subdominant levels data obtained from animal models revealed consistent differences in the two major bacterial phyla with significant increase of the firmicutes and decrease of the bacteroidetes levels in obob com- pared to wild-type mice despite a similarity in their diet and activity levels consistently with animal data numerous human studies have consistently demon- strated that the firmicutesbacteroidetes fb propor- tion is increased in obese people compared to lean people and tend to decrease with weight loss for re- views see - several studies however have pro- duced conflicting results.

it is well known from many animal and human studies that obesity is associated with a composition of gut microbiota.

there are some controversies howevertable 2 median abundance and interquartile range of each phylum across each of the bmi categoriesabout significance of the fb ratio as well as about the impact of actinobacteria level on the deve- lopment of obesity.

energy balance and obesity.

the obesity epidemic - understanding the disease and the treatment.

2016374177-9.bakker gj zhao j herrema h nieuwdorp m. gut microbiota and energy expenditure in health and obesity.

201549suppl 1 s13-9.gerard p. gut microbiota and obesity.

has provoking microbiota aggression driven the obesity epidemic bioessays.

the core gut microbiome energy balance and obesity.

obesity alters gut microbial ecology.

the human gut microbiome a review of the effect of obesity and surgically induced weight loss.

obesity and the microbiome.

201591087-99.barlow gm yu a mathur r. role of the gut microbiome in obesity and diabetes mellitus.

