each mouse was individually housed in a cage and all mice were randomly divided into four groups of 10 mice each 1 pep low-dose group lp mice were orally administered a pep dose of 0.2 g per kg body weight 2 pep middle-dose group mp mice were orally administered a pep dose of 0.4 g per kg body weight 3 pep high-dose group hp mice were orally administered a pep dose of 0.8 g per kg body weight 4 control group blank mice were given distilled water of the same volume as the average value volume of the pep treated group.

bars marked with 0-1 to 0-10 1-1 to 1-10 2-1 to 2-10 and 3-1 to 3-10 show the blank group lp group mp group and hp group individual vari- ations respectively.fig.

bars marked with 0-1 to 0-10 1-1 to 1-10 2-1 to 2-10 and 3-1 to 3-10 show the blank group lp group mp group and hp group individual variations respectively.table 2 the effect of pep treatments on viscera indexp  0.05 p  0.01.fig.

points marked with 0-1 to 0-10 1-1 to 1-10 2-1 to 2-10 and 3-1 to 3-10 show the blank group lp group mp group and hp group individual variations respectively.eries have revealed that propionic acid was a major metabolite produced from dietary complex carbohydrate fibers in the gut as products of microbiota fermentation and displayed some direct beneficial effects on adipose tissue by reducing obesity- associated inflammation and increasing lipogenesis and glucose uptake.24 according to previous reports the primary source of propionic acid was the fermentation of glucose xylose and arabinose25 and pep consists of a relatively higherratio of glucose which could explain the results.

the results showed that the scfa concentration ph value and moisture contents of cecum and colon contents were significantly altered with high-dose pep treatment compared to the control group p  0.05. moreover the fecal microbiota in the pep treated group was found to be structurally different compared to the control group especially the porphyromonadaceae rikenellaceae bacteroidaceae and lactobacillaceae abun- dances were all increased at the family level.

3a that the acetic acid concen- tration in the cecum contents of the high-dose pep dose group 12.52 - 1.95 mmol l-1 was significantly p  0.05 increased compared to the control group 5.67 - 1.30 mmol l-1.

different lowercase letters mean signifi- cant difference p  0.05 of the contents in the cecum and capital letters mean significant difference p  0.05 of the contents in the colon.0.16 mmol l-1 in the hp group which was significantly different p  0.05 from the control group.

no differences were observed between the cecum contents of the control and the pep administered groups for the n-valeric concentration p  0.05. however the concentrations of i-valeric in the pep high dose group increased significantly not only in the cecum con- tents 2.02 - 0.19 mmol l-1 but also in the colon contents 0.71 - 0.16 mmol l-1 p  0.05 while i-valeric in the cecum and colon contents of the control group were only 1.24 -0.09 mmol l-1 and 0.19 - 0.04 mmol l-1 respectively.3.3 ph value and moisture contents of luminal contents in the colon and cecumas shown in fig.

5a shows the microbiota taxonomic compo- sition at the phylum level firmicutes bacteroidetes and proteobacteria were the main dominant phyla the relative abundance of firmicutes significantly decreased whereas the relative abundance of bacteroidetes significantly increased in the high-dose pep group compared to the control group p  0.05. the proteobacteria relative abundance of pep treated andcontrol groups showed no significant difference.

5c bacteroidales clostridiales and lactobacillales were the primary flora in mice fecal matter and the ratio of bacteroidales and lactobacillales significantly increased whereas the clostridiales ratio significantlydecreased with the intake of high-dose pep p  0.05. the microbiota composition differences at the family level between the pep administered administration group and the control group are shown in fig.

moreover the spleen liver and thymus indices were determined and pre- sented in table 2. the thymus index of mice treated with high- dose pep displayed a very significant difference compared to the control group p  0.01 whereas the liver and spleen indices showed a significant difference in the high-dose pep gavage group p  0.05. in addition the secretion of immune cytokines in serum and gut contents of all groups were deter- mined and displayed in fig.

it is commonly known that the higher the scfa concentrations in gastrointestinal tracts the lower the ph value in the gut lumen which leads to an inhibit-lactobacillaceae increased significantly in the high-dose pep gavage group compared to the control group whereas the rela- tive abundance of lachnospiraceae and ruminococcaceae were changed in the reverse significantly.the heatmap of mice fecal microbiota is presented in fig.

6. the fecal microbiota structures of mice with different treatments were presented directly and the cluster analysis for bacterial communities showed that bacterial communities in the low-dose pep gavage group clustered close to the control group while the bacterial communities between middle-dose and high-dose administration groups displayed a close relationship.

previous studies reported that bacteroidetes were able to produce several scfas such as acetic and propionic acid based on the broad range of glyco- side hydrolases and carbohydrate metabolic pathways.28 on the other hand the ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes in the pep gavage group decreased compared to the control group which also suggested that pep played a beneficial role in gas- trointestinal tract health.29 at the family level the animal- derived porphyromonadaceae family members are often b-lactamase producers30 which may play an important role in the degradation of pep.

moreover the fecal microbiota composition was significantly altered in the high- dose pep gavage group compared to the control group.

