coli c25-derived omvs elicit a dose-dependent proinflammatory response from iecs but have no regulatory effects on tlr mrna expression.to investigate the immunomodulatory potential of isolatedcoli c25 omvs ht29-19a and caco-2 cells were chal- lenged with a 4-100 ug ml-1 protein concentration range of omvs for 24 h. release and expression of proinflammatoryil-8 was investigated by elisa and qpcr analysis.in the ht29-19a cell line an increased level of il-8 was observed at a 4 ug ml-1 concentration of omvs andincreased in a dose-dependent manner nevertheless the increase was only calculated to be statistically significantp 0.05 from 20 ug ml-1 omvs .

however more recent studies have focused on omvs derived from probiotic bacteria such as e. coli nissle 1917  and commensal bacteria such as bacteroides fragilis  bacter- oides thetaiotaomicron  and e. coli strain ecor12 .nevertheless with the recent exception of fabrega et al.who showed that the two strains of e. coli studied were able to stimulate cytokine release from explanted colonic tissue  the direct interactions of omvs from non-pathogenic bacteria with the host intestinal epithelium have been little studied .

indeed a number of tlrs appeared to be down-regulated in caco-2 cells however none of these were statistically significant .pre-incubation with e. coli c25-derived omvs inhibits the internalization of the parent bacteriumas mentioned previously past studies have utilized e. coli c25 as a model strain for bacterial translocation across the intestinal epithelium  therefore we sought to inves- tigate the regulatory ability of omvs for this process.

despite this upon direct comparison of cells treated withc25 extracellular products and those treated with flagellinnone of the trends were calculated to be statistically significant.removal of omvs from e. coli c25 extracellular products reduces their proinflammatory effect on iecsgram-negative bacteria are well characterized in their pro- duction of omvs  which when derived from either pathogenic or commensal bacteria have previously shown immunomodulatory activity on different intestinal cell types .

therefore the current study aimed to investi- gate the direct inflammatory potential of omvs derived from e. coli c25 on the intestinal epithelial cell lines ht29- 19a and caco-2.methodscell cultureht29-19a and caco-2 cell lines were kindly donated by professor g. warhurst royal nhs foundation trust and university of salford uk.

to investigate the inflammatory potential of e. coli c25-derived extracellular products ht29-19a and caco-2 intestinal epithelial cells lines were challenged with the cell- free supernatant from cultures of e. coli c25 and sonicated samples of e. coli c25 cultures for 24 h. sonicated samples were used to give maximal levels of antigenic material and mimic cells lysed by antimicrobial peptides amps in vivo.

ht29-19a a and caco-2 b cells were challenged with 1  10 dilutions of e. coli c25 cell-free supernatant or 40 ug ml-1omv culture concentration of e. coli c25 outer membrane vesicles c25 omvs for 24 h and qpcr was utilized to study tlr mrna expression.

ht29-19a a and caco-2 b cells were challenged with 40 ug ml-1 e. coli c25 omvs for 24 h. subsequently the supernatants were removed and cell layers were co-cultured with 1x109 c.f.u.

furthermore as with cell-free superna- tants challenging with sonicates increased il-8 mrna expression in both cell lines with ht29-19a cells exhibiting a 20-fold increase  and caco-2 cells demonstrating a 4-fold increase  although neither of these trends were calculated to be statistically significant.although the release and transcriptional up-regulation of il-8 was potentiated in response to the extracellular prod- ucts of e. coli c25 in both cell lines when compared to thatobserved in response to the pathogenic positive control 100 ng ml-1 final concentration flagellin the increase was relatively modest  on addition of flagellin il-8 release was 20-fold p 0.005 higher in ht29-19a  and 40-fold p 0.005 higher in caco-2 cells  compared to control.

all statistical analyses were undertaken using prism 6graphpad software inc..resultsextracellular products derived from e. coli c25 elicit a moderate proinflammatory response from iecsearlier studies have shown that live e. coli c25 can induce secretion of proinflammatory cytokines from intestinal epi- thelial cells  however the extracellular products from this bacterium have only briefly been considered before .

yet the immunoregulatory ability of the extracellular products from c25 has only been briefly considered previously .gram-negative bacteria and e. coli in particular are well characterized in their production of outer membrane vesicles omvs - which are small 50-250 nm diameter spherical bilayered membranous structures nat- urally secreted into the bacterium's immediate surroundings .

therefore to elucidate the contribution of omvs to the proinflammatory profile of e. coli c25-derived extracellular products we removed them from the c25 cell- free supernatant via ultra-centrifugation.

2. removal of omvs decreases the proinflammatory activity of e. coli c25-derived extracellular products.

e. coli c25 cell-free supernatant was ultra-centrifuged to remove omvs.

3. omvs isolated from e. coli c25 mediate a dose-dependent release of il-8 from iecs.

