a  Prohep may induce a reduction ofpro-inflammatory T helper 17 cells TH17 cells and the differentiation of regulatory T cells Tregcells to T regulatory type 1 cells Tr1 cells.

These species were associated witha reduction of proinflammatory TH17 cell polarizationand concomitant differentiation of antiinflammatory Treg cells regulatory T cells andor Tr1 cells T regula tory type 1 cells in the gut as well as the production ofantiinflammatory metabolites70 FIG.

and Bacteroides fragilis promote maturing intratumoural dendritic cells and the production of interleukin-12 IL-12 by bone marrow-derived dendritic cells respectively that allow the expansion of anticancer T cells.

Finally CTX in com bination with B. intestinihominis reduces cancer growthin mice through a pathway that involves TH1 cells type 1CD8 T cells Tc1 cells TNF and IFNg23 FIG.

In mice E. hirae induces TH17 and TH1 CD4 T cells16 and stimulates tumour specific CD8 T cells but reduces the numbers ofNATURE REVIEWS  MICROBIOLOGYVOLUME 15  AUGUST 2017  471REVIEWS Table 3  Bacteria that have putative anticancer properties in experimental models5-FU 5-fluorouracil Apc adenomatous polyposis coli CRC colorectal cancer CTLs cytotoxic T lymphocytes DCs dendritic cells DMH 12-dimethylhydrazine IFNg interferon-g IL interleukin JNK JUN N-terminal kinase LLC Lewis lung carcinoma Min multiple intestinal neoplasia NK natural killer RS resistant starch SCFA short-chain fatty acid TGFb transforming growth factor-b TH T helper TNF tumour necrosis factor Treg regulatory T.472  AUGUST 2017  VOLUME 15REVIEWS immunosuppressive intratumoural Treg cells and IL17producing gd T cells23.

In addition the microbiome has been reported to affect various traits that range from metabolism to mood31.466  AUGUST 2017  VOLUME 15REVIEWS Faecal microbiota transplantationThe engraftment of microbiota from a healthy donor into a recipient which results in the restoration of the normal gut microbial ecosystem.Graft-versus-host disease An immune attack of transplanted lymphocytes against host cells which causes systemic disease following the transfusion of cells from a donor that has distinct histocompatibility antigens.ProbioticA live microorganism that can confer a health benefit to the host.PrebioticA non-digestible food ingredient that stimulates the growth and activity of bacteria in the digestive system.Thus interventions on the microbiome remain an exciting prospect for many therapeutic areas including cancer treatment.Faecal microbiota transplantation.

A CD4T helper cell induced by the coordinated action of transforming growth factor-b TGFb and interleukin-6 IL-6 to activate the transcription factor retinoid-related orphan nuclear receptor-gt RORgt and to produce IL-17 andIL-22.Tr1 cellsT regulatory type 1 cells CD4 T regulatory type 1 cells that produce large amounts of interleukin-10 IL-10 through IL-10R signalling and induce an anti-inflammatory response.immunostimulation5354 it is unclear whether starvation induced changes in the composition or function of the microbiome contribute to these beneficial effects.Microbial agents for cancer treatmentIn 1946 a partially successful anticancer treatment attempt was made using intratumourally injected Streptococcus pyogenes and Serratia marcescens55.

This defect can be overcome by treatment with B. fragilis and the adoptive transfer of CD4 T cells that have been primed thatis incubated with B. fragilispulsed dendritic cells.This mechanism could be explained by the observa tion that B. fragilis can stimulate the production of IL12 by bone marrowderived dendritic cells in vitro24.

In addi tion these B. intestinihominis-fed mice had more inter ferong IFNgproducing gd T cells at the expense ofimmunosuppressive IL17producing gd T cells thus facilitating anticancer immunity.

This suggests that the carcinogenesis associated disruption of crypt architecture might facili tate butyratemediated inhibition of colonic cancer stem cells which arise from colonic stem cells.

