were below detection limits in the diarrhoeic samples as well as in the raw and boiled fed mb.faecal water faecal consistency score ph and scfas besides the isolated incidences of diarrhoea in some dogs outside the sampling period reported above the medians for faecal water and faecal consistency score did not change throughout the study period table faecal ph appeared to increase with the mb- supplementation and was significantly different between the cd1 and the hmb periods p  0.02. a similar trend was observed when comparing the cd2 and hmb periods p  0.06 table relative amounts of the scfas acetic propionic butyric and isovaleric acids in the faecal samples are shown in table the hmb diet appeared to increase the relative amount of isovaleric acid compared to the cd1 and cd2 periods p  0.05 and p  0.02 respectively and of butyric acid compared to the cd2 period p  0.01. higher relative amounts of acetic acid were observed in samples from the cd2 vs. hmb period p  0.01.sequencing analysisof the initial 139 faecal samples five were discarded due to low sequencing depth.

however faecal samples from the diet pe- riods prior to the diarrhoea episodes as well as from the cd2 period were included in the study provided a faecal consistency score within normal range was achieved.faecal collection and sample storageowners were instructed in proper collection and hand- ling of faecal samples.

however all faecal samples analysed see below were of normal consistency faecal score ranging from 2.5 to 3.5. three dogs did not contribute with samples from all diet periods due to a faecal score  4.5 two consecutive times.

showing that fusobacterium 28 bacteroides 14and clostridiaceae other 14 where the most domin- ant in all dogs.species richness and evenness assessed by shannon diversity index were decreased in the hmb samples compared with samples from the cd1 and cd2 periods p-value 0.03 and 0.08 respectively table however observed species was not significantly different between samples from dogs fed the different diets table as visualized by a pcoa plot using the weighted unifrac distance metric the hmb samples clustered differently compared with samples from both the cd1 and cd2 diet periods and these differences were significant per- manova cd1 vs. hmb p  0.04 t  1.57 and cd2vs.

finally some data indicate differing microbiota profiles when comparing faecal samples with intestinal mucosal samples investigating bacteria in direct contact with the intestinal mucosa might be more relevant for studying bacteria related to gut health but was not performed in these healthy client-owned dogs due to financial and ethical constraints.conclusionin a heterogeneous population consisting of 11 healthy client-owned dogs exposure to a hmb diet seemed to induce changes in the faecal microbiota composition and decreased diversity compared with the pre- exposure period when dogs were fed the cd diet.

no significant differences were detected between cd1 or cd2 vs. lmb or mmb and are therefore not included in the figuresproduce adequate levels of butyrate to maintain a healthy gut requires further investigations.as mentioned above another possible explanation for the reduced faecal microbiota diversity associated withthe hmb samples might be the antibacterial effect of an increased bile acid secretion in response to a lipid-rich diet specifically the shift in fat content may explain the higher relative abundance of a bacterial taxawithin the family clostridiaceae in the hmb samples compared with the cd1 and cd2 samples.

this bacterium is capable of dehydroxylating primary bile acids into secondary bile acids which are considered to have carcinogenic potential a high fat diet in humans induce prolifer- ation of bacteria with this ability c. hiranonis has so far been described as a normal commensal bacterium in faecal microbiota of healthy dogs the higher proportions of coriobacteriales in hmb samples vs. cd1 samples and the erysipelotrichaceae in hmb sam- ples vs. cd2 samples may also be explained by the high fat content in the diet as described in a study of ham- sters and mice .

diarrhoea was indi- cated with a faecal score from 4.5 to 5 according to the waltham faeces scoring system  the investigator also recorded faecal consistency score in all the collected samples.

diarrhoea was also observed in dogs fed high level animal-derived protein greaves meal 50 g protein 100 g diet dm according to previous studies diet-induced effect on faecal consistency has been associated with an increase in clostridium perfringens in faecal samples as well as ileal chyme in labora- tory dogs.

correspondence 1department of companion animal clinical sciences faculty of veterinary medicine norwegian university of life sciences nmbu oslo norwayfull list of author information is available at the end of the articledue to the ease of collection faecal samples are com- monly used to describe the intestinal bacteria hence the term faecal microbiota.

faecal samples were thawed on ice weighed and homogenized with the internal standard mix at a ratio of 13. thereafter samples were cen- trifuged 17000 x g 10 min and then filtered 0.22 mm diameter.

on the other hand the higher fat content in the hmb diet with a presumed concomitant increased secretion of bile acids that have antibacterial effects may also be a factor absence of f. prausnitzii in thefaecal microbiota has been associated with inflammatory bowel disease in both humans and dogs this may be due to decreased levels of the anti-inflammatory metabolite butyrate which is efficiently produced by this bacteria however the relative amount of butyrate was elevated in the hmb samples compared with the cd2 samples possibly explained by the higher relative abundance of roseburia in hmb vs. cd2 samples.

bmc veterinary research 2017 13147doi 10.1186s12917-017-1073-9a diet change from dry food to beef induces reversible changes on the faecal microbiota in healthy adult client-owned dogskristin m. v. herstad1 karina gajardo2 anne marie bakke2 lars moe1 jane ludvigsen3 knut rudi3 ida rud4 monika sekelja35 and ellen skancke1backgroundthe canine faecal microbiota consists of a complex eco- system of bacteria virus fungi and protozoa of which bacteria dominate and are the most characterized organ- isms -.

in contrast fermentation of proteins and amino acids by proteolytic bacteria in the colon results in increased faecal ph and in the formation of faecal metabolites such as ammonia sul- phides phenols indols and branched chain fatty acids bcfa including isovaleric acid.

thus the effect of a change in one macronutrient on the faecal microbiota is therefore a result of the combinatory effect of all the macronutrients knowledge of the canine faecal microbiome has lagged behind that of humans but has recently improved with the implementation of state-of-the-art high throughput sequencing methods hts.

