none of the lipid-dependent strains ma-366 ma-374 and ma-380 was able to grow on this media.sequence of the neotype strain of m. pachydermatis cbs 1879. strains ma-366 and ma-374 showed identical lsu sequences and had an identity of 100 to m. pachydermatis ma-1382 while strain ma-380 had an identity of 100 to m. pachydermatis ma-280 .

furthermore these authors also mentioned that two m. pachydermatis strains were only able to grow with lipid supplementation in the synthetic yeast nitrogen base broth confirming the unique lipid-dependent nature of all malassezia species.different standard physiological tests used in the identification of yeasts have been pro- posed in order to characterize phenotypically m. pachydermatis e.g.

moreover in this study we have included three atypical lipid- dependent m. pachydermatis strains and confirmed their identity by dna sequencing.materials and methodsstrainsa total of 19 strains of m. pachydermatis were studied.

main differential phenotypic characteristics of the studied m. pachydermatis strains.growth on sga sabouraud glucose agar at 32c growth on mda modified dixon agar after 7 days of incubation at 32c 1 colony diameter of 2-5 mm2 colony diameter of 1 mm growth at 42c on mda after 7 days of incubation.tween diffusion test   with sga and ynba yeast nitrogen base agar  good growth w weak growth a growth at a distance of the well where the substrate was placed b ring of growth inhibition at a distance of the well - growth inhibition v variable results between replicates.naming source cbs centraalbureau voor schimmelcultures ma culture collection of the veterinary mycology group.after 7 days of incubation on mda at 32c two types of m. pachydermatis colonies were observed.

pachydermatis strains - we also hypothesize that the same could happen within this species.in our study the three lipid-dependent strains of m. pachydermatis showed some differen- tial phenotypic characteristics.

although m. pachyder- matis is the less lipid-demanding species of the genus it has been shown that it requires the peptone components of sga which are highly complex and undefined but provide fatty acids essential for this species .however some m. pachydermatis isolates from dogs have shown some inconsistent lipid dependence .

lsu rrna and chs2 sequences from the lipid-dependent strains matched previously characterized m. pachyderma- tis genotypes and the new its and beta-tubulin genotypes from these lipid-dependent strains did not exceed the variation generally observed to occur in m. pachydermatis .

on the other hand we have modified the tween diffusion test for m. pachy- dermatis study using the synthetic medium ynba which has proved to be useful for differen- tiation of m. pachydermatis strains providing reproducible results and a straightforward interpretation.

research articlecharacterization of the species malassezia pachydermatis and re-evaluation of its lipid dependence using a synthetic agar mediumlaura puig m. rosa bragulat gemma castella' f. javier cabanesveterinary mycology group department of animal health and anatomy universitat autonoma de barcelona bellaterra catalonia spain abstractthe genus malassezia includes lipophilic yeasts which are part of the skin microbiota of var- ious mammals and birds.

unlike the rest of malassezia species m. pachydermatis is described as non-lipid-dependent as it is able to grow on sabouraud glucose agar sgawithout lipid supplementation.

editor thomas l. dawson agency for science technology and research singaporereceived march 2 2017accepted may 24 2017published june 6 2017within m. pachydermatis and confirmed its lipid-dependent nature using a synthetic agar medium.

more than 400 lipid-dependent malassezia isolates from animals were studied in order to detect the three lipid-dependent strains of m. pachydermatis.

this modification has proved to be useful for differentiation of m. pachydermatis strains provid- ing reproducible results and a straightforward interpretation.

the finding of these peculiar lipid-dependent strains exemplifies the large variability within the species m. pachydermatis which involves rare atypical strains with particular growth requirements.copyright c 2017 puig et al.

of all these species m. pachydermatis is a zoophilic yeast fre- quently isolated from the skin of wild and domestic carnivores.

