The funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis or preparation of the manuscript.Competing interests The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.RESEARCH ARTICLEEvolution of class 1 integrons Mobilization and dispersal via food-borne bacteriaTimothy M. Ghaly Louise Chow Amy J. Asher Liette S. Waldron Michael R. GillingsDepartment of Biological Sciences Macquarie University Sydney New South Wales AustraliaAbstractClass 1 integrons have played a major role in the global dissemination of antibiotic resis- tance.

This gene capture system allows generation of genomic complexity and acquisition of adaptive phenotypes  including resistance to nearly all known classes of antibiotics .The class 1 integrons that are widely distributed in pathogens from clinical settings hereaf- ter referred to as 'clinical' class 1 integrons are part of a more diverse group of class 1 inte- grons found on the chromosomes of environmental bacteria .

Here we report screening of baby spinach leaves from retail outlets for class 1 inte- grons characterization of these integrons their gene cassettes and the mobile elements they reside upon and how this information helps to inform our understanding of the events leading to the fixation of clinical class 1 integrons in the human microbiota.Materials and methodsIsolation of single colonies and DNA extractionCommercial baby spinach leaves were obtained from retail outlets in Sydney NSW Australia.

However the clinical class 1 integrons responsible for this dissemination are just one sequence type in a larger family of class 1 integrons that are broadly distributed in environmental bacte- ria and which exhibit considerable sequence diversity  .

Almost without exception the DNA sequence of the integrase gene intI1 of all clinical class 1 integrons is identical .Given the extensive sequence diversity in this family of elements the sequence identity amongst clinical class 1 integrons is strong evidence that they have a single recent common ancestor.

Understanding the origins of clinical class 1 integrons and the reasons for their spec- tacular success will help us understand the dynamics of antibiotic resistance and the influence that humans have had on the bacterial resistome .Here we identified a class 1 integron that is a strong candidate for the type of element that might be the common ancestor of the clinical class 1 integrons.

Further chromosomal integrons carry gene cassettes unrelated to the antibiotic resistance cassettes found in contemporary clinical integrons and this should also be the case in the class 1 ancestor.

Cassettes encoding Qac efflux pumps are common in environmental class 1 integrons and have been predicted to be part of the earliest forms of clinical class 1 integrons  in keeping with expectations for a clinical ancestor.These observations present an insight into the evolutionary history of clinical class 1 inte- grons.

Under this inter- pretation the integron we describe here represents an intermediate stage in the complex rear- rangements that preceded the dissemination of clinical class 1 integrons into the human microbiota.The occurrence of the present integron in an E. cloacae strain isolated from baby spinach leaves provides a plausible route for transmission of environmental integrons into the human microbiota.

These events plus the collective acquisition of over 130 antibiotic resistance gene cassettes  have generated the diverse structures of contemporary clinical class 1 integrons .In summary we have demonstrated the environmental occurrence of a class 1 integron that resides within a complex set of transposons and is capable of being mobilized by a broad hostA model for the origin of clinical class 1 integrons.

