are described as an important etiological agent of BRD.Hypothesis To evaluate the occurrence of the most important mycoplasmas in the lower respiratory tract of healthy and BRD cattle in relationship to clinical signs of BRD.Animals Sixty young dairy cattle were classified as healthy n  32 or cattle showing clinical signs of BRD n  28.Methods Tracheal lavage samples were collected and added to tubes containing Hayflick media.

Rela- tionships to heart rate P  .062 and crackle P  .062 were not significant.Conclusions and clinical importance The results confirmed the importance of mycoplasma as an etiologic agent of BRD and suggested M. dispar as part of the respiratory microbiota and its possible role in the development of BRD.Key words Bovine Buiatrics Diseases of cattle Mycoplasma.ovine respiratory disease BRD is an important problem in cattle production that remains responsi-ble for economic losses in dairy and feedlot herds because of high morbidity and mortality rates.1-3 It is observed in young calves4 particularly between 2 and 6 weeks of age.56 In addition BRD negatively impacts growth reproductive performance and longevity.57Mycoplasma spp.

Molli- cutes were increased in BRD cattle 68 compared to healthy cattle 41 P  .035 Table 2.

Isolation of mycoplasma species from the lower respiratory tract of healthy cattle and cattle with respiratory disease in Belgium.

Mendonca Ribeiro L. Miranda Marques J. Timenetsky and L. GregoryBackground Bovine respiratory disease BRD is an important problem in cattle production that is responsible for eco- nomic losses in dairy herds.

Molli- cutes P  .035 and M. dispar P  .036 were more common in BRD cattle.

mycoides SC has never been detected in Brazilian cattle although its detection in the external auditory meatus of clinically healthy goats was described else- where.11 M. bovis is an opportunistic bacterium consid- ered part of the bovine respiratory tract microbiota.12 After stressful situations M. bovis becomes pathogenic and clinical signs of BRD are observed especially in young calves.13 M. dispar was first isolated from pneu- monic lungs of cattle14 and it has been described as a potential pathogen associated with BRD.1516Considering the importance of Mycoplasma spp.

in thedevelopment of BRD the aim of our study was to evalu- ate the occurrence of the most important mycoplasma species in the lower respiratory tract of healthy and sick Brazilian cattle in relationship to clinical signs of BRD.Materials and MethodsThe study was conducted at the Internal Medicine Department School of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science University of Sao Paulo and at the Laboratory of Mycoplasmas Institute of Biological Sciences University of Sao Paulo Brazil.

All proce- dures were carried out in agreement with the guidelines of Ethical Principles in Animal Research adopted by the Ethic Committee on the Use of Animals of the School of Veterinary Medicine and Ani- mal Science of University of Sao Paulo.Sixty young dairy cattle were randomly selected and enrolled in the study.

Fifty-eight cattle were from 10 farms located in the stateof Sao Paulo Brazil.

