We conclude that exposure to the conditions of space travel can alter bacterial community composition of D. japonica and indeed does so in a manner that is still altered years afterward.Taken together our data reveal that exposure to space has very- long-lasting effects in this model organism which include physiological behavioral morphological and microbiological changes.DISCUSSION Our study examined how the regenerative and physiological proper- ties of planaria changed during a space mission.

2010 thus while the reprogramming to a two-head state was induced by space travel its persistence across rounds of regenerations may be a general feature of such stable heteromorphoses however induced and not specifically due to space conditions.While the exact mechanism of the induction of the two-headed state by space travel is unknown we can propose several hypotheses.TA B L E 5 Six worms from the Earth-only and space-exposed groups were tested for 10 min with respect to their positions in a Petri dish that was half dark and half lit up with blue LED light.

Other possibilities include the effects of the space travel environment upon Wnt pathway molecules Petersen  Reddien 2007 Yazawa Umesono Hayashi Tarui  Agata 2009 or physiological connectivity via gap junctions Emmons-Bell et al.

The effects of exposure to a null magnetic field have included changes in immune response Dorofteiu Morariu Marina  Zirbo 1995 axonal myelina- tion Shibib et al.

The percentage of time each worm spent in the dark side of the dish was calculated by an automated machine vision system optimized for planariaIt is known that reduced GMF disrupts cytoskeletal structures Wang et al.

The remaining proteins were further filtered so that every protein on the list was identified via two or more unique peptides in the mass spectrum.The full DNA sequences of the identified proteins were obtained from a recently published D. japonica transcriptome Chan et al.

The Geomagnetic Field and Life New York Plenum Press.Emmons-Bell M. Durant F. Hammelman J. et al.

The Journal of Experimental Biology 216 3799-3810.Souza G. R. Molina J. R. Raphael R. M. et al.

DOI 10.1002reg2.79RESEAR CH AR TICLEPlanarian regeneration in space Persistent anatomical behavioral and bacteriological changes induced by space travelJunji Morokuma1Fallon Durant1Katherine B. Williams1Joshua M. Finkelstein1 Douglas J. Blackiston1Twyman Clements2David W. Reed3Michael Roberts4 Mahendra Jain2Kris Kimel5Sunia A. Trauger6Benjamin E. Wolfe1Michael Levin11Allen Discovery Center at Tufts Univer-sity Biology Department Tufts University 200 Boston Ave. Suite 4600 Medford MA 02155-4243 USA2Kentucky Space LLC 200 West Vine St. Suite420 Lexington KY 40507 USA3NASA Kennedy Space Center Space StationProcessing Facility Building M7-0360 Kennedy Space Center FL 32899 USA4Center for the Advancement of Science inSpace CASIS 6905 N. Wickham Rd.

Likewise in the worm fragments amputated prior to launch the worm population exposed to space then grew more slowly than the Earth-only controls.Regenerative mispatterningThe most striking morphological change was observed with one of the 15 pharynx fragments from space which had been manually ampu- tated on Earth prior to the launch.

