bacterio- logic characterization of 36 strains of roseomonas species and proposal of roseomonas mucosa sp nov and roseomonas gilardii subsp rosea subsp nov. am j clin pathol.

the production of antibiotic resist- ance determinants or extracellular polymer matrices cru- cial for biofilm formation .in this communication we describe the characterization of a roseomonas mucosa strain isolated during treatment of an infected root canal.

bacteria were colonizingtable 2 susceptibility of r. mucosa to antibioticsantibioticamount ug breakpoint mm susceptibilityb-lactams penicillins and cephalosporinsampicillin106resistantampicillinsulbac- tam10106resistantsusceptibility to antibiotics was tested by incubation of bacteria together with antibiotic disks for 48 h on mueller-hinton agar and results were interpreted using the breakpoints for zone diameters of the european committee on antimicrobial susceptibility testing eucast the wall of the root canal in a compact layer of cells and extracellular material.discussionroseomonas mucosa seems to be the most prevalent roseomonas species in clinical samples and in contrast to other roseomonas species a considerable number infec- tions of immunocompetent patients has been reported  .

a time course of biofilm formation on glass test tube gutta-percha and polystyrene microtiter plate surfaces and in lb and bhi medium revealed that bio- film formation is coupled to growth of the culture and increases with time.while glass surfaces were colonized best and stable solid biofilms were formed fig.

consequently the observed resistance to these antibiotics might also protect other pathogenic bacteria from antibiotic treatment whengrowing together with r. mucosa in multispecies biofilms in the host.limitationsthis first report of the isolation of r. mucosa from an infected root canal and the characterisation of biofilm formation of the corresponding strain might further con- tribute to the knowledge on this emerging pathogen and its reservoirs.

however further studies besides this sin- gle case report and initial experiments are necessary to establish that r. mucosa is a significant member of the microbiota of infected root canals and to fully under- stand its role in oral health.authors' contributionsnd carried out growth experiments and characterized biofilm formation sk isolated the strain from files of a root canal treatment wg identified the isolate and carried out antibiotic susceptibility testing tg-k was responsible for fluorescence microscopy mk and ab designed the study and wrote the manuscript.

the role of environmental changes on monospecies biofilm formation on root canal wall by enterococcus faeca- lis.

200546611-4.sipsas nv papaparaskevas j stefanou i kalatzis k vlachoyiannopoulos p avlamis a. septic arthritis due to roseomonas mucosa in a rheumatoid arthritis patient receiving infliximab therapy.

201622737e731-7.kim ky hur j jo w hong j cho oh kang dh kim s bae ig.

bmc res notes 2017 10212doi 10.1186s13104-017-2538-4bmc research notescharacterisation of roseomonas mucosaisolated from the root canal of an infected toothnina diesendorf1 stefanie kohler1 walter geissdorfer2 tanja grobecker-karl2 matthias karl34 and andreas burkovski1backgroundbiofilms are groups of sessile microorganisms living within a self-produced matrix of extracellular polymeric substances.

fluorescence microscopic inspection at 20x magnification was carried out using a zeiss axio imager a1 carl zeiss microscopy gmbh oberkochen germany with fixed wavelength and filters for gfp fluorescence equipped with a digital camera zeiss axio cam mrc5 and analysing software zeiss zen 2011 version 1.0.resultsisolation of microorganisms and growth of roseomonas mucosain frame of this study thirteen teeth were tested for microbial colonization of the root canal.

e.biofilm formation on dentin the natural surface of the root canal was tested using extracted teeth.

as indicated by its name r. mucosa is characterised by a strong slime formation which might be beneficial forbiofilm formation.

5 91058 erlangen germanyfull list of author information is available at the end of the articleroot canal system and dentin tubules due to insufficient removal of biofilm and disinfection .

tubes were incubated on a rotary shaker at 37 degc and biofilm formation was analysed after 1 3 and 5 days.

