administration of tcdb-specific colostrum alone or in combination with spore or vegetative cell-targeted colostrum prevents and treats c. difficile disease in mice and reduces disease recurrence by 67. c. difficile-specific colostrum should be re-considered as an immunotherapeutic for the prevention or treatment of primary or recurrent cdi.there is a desperate worldwide need to minimise the use of antibiotics.

dilution of tcdb-specific colostrum with non-immune colostrum at a ratio of 13 reduced the efficacy of the tcdb colostrum but a similar dilution using a combination of spore and vegetative cell colostrum in which the ratio of tcdb antibody remained 13 resulted in enhanced survival in mice suggesting that these antibodies acted synergistically to provide superior protection against cdi.

the efficacy of com- bining colostrum preparations to simultaneously target all stages of the infectious cycle was assessed with either spore-hbc veg-hbc and tcdb-hbc mix1-hbc or exo-hbc slp-hbc and tcdb-hbc mix2-hbc combined in equal ratios 111. as a control mice were administered tcdb-specific colostrum that had been diluted 13 in non-immune colostrum mix3-hbc which had equivalent amounts of tcdb-specific antibody to mix2- and mix3-hbc.

c. difficile-specific antibody titres in colostrum were determined by elisa and in all cases were elevated compared to non-immune bovine colostrum ni-bc from unvaccinated cows fig.

elisa plates were coated with c. difficile spore exosporium vegetative cell slp or recombinant tcdb antigens to determine the specific colostrum antibody titres of spore-hbc a exo-hbc b veg-hbc c slp-hbc d or tcdb-hbc e respectively compared with colostrum from non-immune cows ni-bc.prophylactic administration of tcdb-specific hbc protects mice from cdi.

colostrum igg antibodies can be readily generated in large amounts with an average of 200 grams of pure igg extracted from 5 kilograms of colostrum produced from each dairy cow immuron ltd personnel communication april 2017. these features make hbc an ideal product for the treatment of c. difficile and other enteric pathogens particularly those thatare antibiotic resistant and the successful use of hbc for escherichia coli cryptosporidium rotavirus and shigella flexneri infectionssupports this approach.methodsbacterial culture conditions and strains.

igg antibody was purified from the colostrum using a protein g column ge healthcare according to the manufacturer's instructions.measurement of c. difficile-specific igg levels in colostrum.

collectively these data provide strong evidence supporting the use of tcdb-hbc to treat cdi.figure 1. elisa analysis of c. difficile-specific antibodies in colostrum from cows immunised with c. difficile antigens.

the importance of tcdb particularly in severe intestinal damageand severeand systemic disease  has been established for these reasons tcdb was selected as a key target for the development of c. difficile colostrum-based therapeutics together with vegetative cell and spore targets that represent all important infectious cycle components.the use of c. difficile-specific colostrum as a prevention or treatment for cdi has yielded promising results when tested in various animal models and in human clinical trials.

colostrum provides passive immunity to newborn calves from opportunistic infections and immunisation of dairy cows during gestation with specific antigens results in colostrum containing high concentrations of antigen-specific antibodies.

as colostrum has the potential to be used for the prevention or treatment of primary disease or recurrence we examined the use of spore- vegetative cell- or tcdb-specific colostrum for the prevention and treatment of cdi in a mouse model of infection.the tcdb-hbc product developed here showed excellent efficacy supporting our hypothesis that targetingtcdb is beneficial in preventing and treating primary cdi.

the use of bovine milk or modified colostrum to reduce cdi relapse rates in human clinical trials  also supports the efficacy of a colostrum product.

however the antibodies used in these studies were generated against vegetative cells alone or in combination with tcda- and tcdb-containing culture supernatants and whole hbc was not investigated.although the development of colostrum based immunotherapeutics for cdi treatment is not a new concept our study is the first to clearly show a reduction in recurrence with a defined colostrum product.

the original volume of colostrum was restored by the addition of dh2o and diafiltration performed by concentrating the colostrum again to approximately 60 of the original volume.

for colostrum prophylaxis studies mice were administered colostrum in the drinking water two days prior to infection continuing for the trial duration.

