A total of 10 sections per sample were observed in order to examine the presence and location of most Eubacteria within the skin epidermis or mucus layer where bufadienolides are secreted.ResultsBufadienolide IdentificationThree bufadienolides from the boreal toad--arenobufagin gamabufotalin and telocinobufagin--were identified through LCMS data analysis Fig.

Retention times mass spectra and UV-Vis absor- bance spectra were equivalent to those of purchased bufadienolides which confirmed the structures of these three isolated bufadienolides Fig.

Therefore our results demonstrating that bufadienolides inhibit Bd may be conservative as the bufadienolides appear to be inhibiting Bd even with the addition of Bd-enhancing methanol.Different skin structures are known to offer unique micro- habitats for symbiotic bacteria in mammals  and amphib- ians .

3 a Synthetic bufadienolides and their UV-Vis chromophores matching values obtained from the spectral data of sampled boreal toad compounds.b Chemical structures of arenobufagin gamabufotalin and telocinobufagin and comparison of similar observed and calculated massesthe skin of boreal toads serve as storage compartments for bufadienolides.

The mechanism through which bufadienolides inhibit Bd or other pathogens is unknown but use of many as cardiotonicTable 1 Estimated concentration at which arenobufagintoads in areas such as Colorado While these three bufadienolides have an inhibitory effect on Bd growth their production could be an example of convergent evolution for antifungal skin defenses or this may be a beneficial byproduct.

While15 of 62 mucosome samples had detectable bufadienolides there were no significant differences between samples with and without detectable bufadienolides or among treatments in mucosome effect on Bd zoospore viability.

Applying bufadienolides to amphibian skin to treat infections may be impractical and even detrimental to the health of foreign hosts.However these findings advance our understanding of the role of bufadienolides in antimicrobial defense effect on the amphibian skin-associated microbiome and a host's ability for prevention and management of Bd.Many Bd inhibition techniques have been discovered pre- viously including treatment with antifungals such as itraconazole   heat treatment of Bd   AMPs  and salt .

Furthermore the impact of bufadienolides in shaping the microbiome of toads may indi- rectly affect Bd growth and provide other cutaneous antimi- crobial properties.In conclusion in this study we identified three bufadienolides from the skin of boreal toads exhibiting inhib- itory properties against Bd.

We identified three bufadienolides--the steroid-like com- pounds arenobufagin gamabufotalin and telocinobufagin-- from the boreal toad Anaxyrus boreas through liquid chroma- tography mass spectrometry LCMS.

All three bufadienolides were found to inhibit Bd growth at similar levels.

