c. hepaticus was isolated from the liver tissue of 35 of these birds and qpcr was able to detect c. hepaticus in the liver and caecum samples from all the birds that were culture-po- sitive samples 1.7 x 104-2.9 x 106 cfug for caecum samples and2.2 x 104-3.0 x 105 cfug for liver samples.

application of the qpcr assay for the detection of c. hepaticus in clinical samples and samples from a sld induction studythe qpcr assay was applied to assess the level of c. hepaticus in bile liver and caecum samples from the field.

the qpcr results for the final two samples indicated low numbers of c. hepaticus 8.5 x 104 and 5.6 x 104 cfug when compared to the level of c. hepaticus found in the 14 bile samples that were positive for both isolation and qpcr.the use of qpcr for detection of c. hepaticus in cloacal swabscloacal swab samples were taken at necropsy from 4 clinicallyfig.

in tissue samples caecum bile and liver samples spiked with a known quantity of c. hepaticus the detection limit was 15.8 cfureaction double the detection limit found with pure culture dna.c.

the numbers of bacteria in liver tissue per gram of tissue was generally lower than the numbers found in the git.the qpcr assay was applied to dna extracts of tissue samples re- covered from field cases of clinical sld and samples from healthy birds.

c. hepaticus was not isolated from any of these samples and pcrs of the liver and caecum dna samples were negative.samples from 13 birds without any clinical signs of sld but housed on the same farms in different sheds as sld affected birds were also examined for c. hepaticus infection by bacterial isolation and pcr assay.

in the rest of the samples from the 12 other birds c. hepaticus isolation from liver and qpcr of the liver and caecum sample derived dnas were negative.liver tissue and caecum digesta samples were collected from 45 birds from eight sld outbreaks.

the reduced efficiency of the qpcr from tissue samples might be due to the presence of polymerase inhibitors in the tissue derived dna samples or loss of template during dna extraction  .c.

similarly the isolation of c. hepaticus was not successful for two bile samples from diseased birds but qpcr was able to detect c. hepaticus in these samples with colonisation rates of8.5 x 104 cfug and 5.6 x 104 cfug.

hepaticus can be readily isolated from liver and bile samples be- cause it is generally present as a monoculture however there is cur- rently no specific media that can be used to isolate c. hepaticus from bacteriologically complex samples such as from the gut or environment.

isolates could only be recovered from samples that had a monoculture of c. hepaticus in the tissues as a selective culturing method has not yet been developed.

the assay facilitated the detection and quantification of c. hepaticus in tissue samples from clinical cases of sld.

carriage of c. hepaticus within the gastrointestinal tract git cannot be adequately studied using the currently available cul- turing method as the procedure is not selective and thus the slow growing c. hepaticus cannot be recovered before complete overgrowth with other bacteria present in git samples.

hepaticus strains were isolated from liver and bile samples from11 australian sld outbreaks from different farms in the states of victoria queensland south australia and new south wales as de- scribed by van et al.

in addition dna samples from caecum and small intestine mu- cosal scrapings from healthy chickens sourced from flocks with no current or past history of clinical signs of sld were used for primer specificity studies.dna from liver small intestine caecum bile and cloacal swab of sld affected and healthy birds plus from pure bacterial cultures were prepared using the isolate fecal dna kit bioline according to the manufacturer's instructions.

