s struvite c nonplanted soil cs nonplanted soil amended with struvite b bulk soil bs bulk soil amended with struvite r rhizosphere soil rs rhizosphere soil amended with struvite p brassica phyllosphere ps brassica phyllosphere planted in soil amended with struvite.

however a robust understanding of the potential risk of using struvite as fertilizer in agriculture remains elusive.in the present study by using high throughput qpcr with 296 validated primer sets targeting almost all major classes of args and 10 mges marker genesand illumina sequencing of bacterial 16s rrna gene we aimed to 1 investigate the impact of struvite application on the profile of args and bacterial communities in soil rhizosphere and phyllosphere of brassica 2 reveal the shared args between struvite soil and phyllosphere based on bipartite network analysis and 3 explore how antibiotic resistance in struvite transferred to the surface of plants.

c nonplanted soil cs nonplanted soil amended with struvite b bulk soil bs bulk soil amended with struvite r rhizosphere soil rs rhizosphere soil amended with struvite p brassica phyllosphere ps brassica phyllosphere planted in soil amended with struvite.

struvite crystallization is an efficient process to recover phosphate from wastewater.-presently struvite production has been commercialized worldwide and the sale price is approximately198-1885 per ton in australia and japan.struvite could be a promising fertilizer with the depletion of phosphate rock and its usage in agriculture is likely to increase in the near future.wastewater especially those from livestock industries has been well documented to be a hotspot of antibiotic resistance.-therefore struvite recovered from wastewater could be contaminated by args arb and antibiotic residues.

they are described clockwise i forty-four genes unique to struvite since these genes do not colonize in soil or plants and are thus of little concern ii 13 args shared by soil and struvite but not in plants are again of little concerna single outlier mtrc only found in soil is again of little concern iv ten args already in the soil that also find their way onto the phyllosphere are of possible concern but struvite is not responsible for their presence v 25 args and afigure 2. normalized abundance of arg and mge.

in the present study we found a much higher level of args in struvite than soil and the application of struvite increased both the abundance and diversity of resistome in soil rhizosphere and phyllosphere of brassica confirming that struvite recycled from wastewater as fertilizer can increase the dissemination of resistome into environment.

detailed information about struvite crystallization is described else- where.the struvite was air-dried without further pretreat- ments prior to being used as fertilizer.

the number of args and mges increased in all samples when struvite s was added including nonplanted soil c bulk soil b rhizosphere soil r and phyllosphere p. pcoa analysis based on bray-curtis  showed that the profilesof arg in phyllosphere were obviously different from soils adonis p  0.01. in addition the unamended soils separated well from struvite-amended soil regardless of brassica plantation indicating that application of struvite significantly altered arg compositions in soil adonis p  0.01.the absolute abundance of args in soil and phyllosphere ranged from 3.25 x 109 to 1.26 x 1010 and from 7.57 x 107 to5.95 x 108 copies g-1 solid dry weight respectively .

in addition to the abundance and diversity of args the co- occurrence pattern of arg was also alerted with more interactions links being observed in the network after application of struvite .shared resistome between struvite soil and phyllo- sphere.

data shown in the figure are from three replicates n  3 and represented as means - sd.integrase gene intl-1 only found on the phyllosphere but not detectable in soil or struvite indicating these genes may be possible phyllosphere specialists vi 30 genes shared by struvite and phyllosphere but not in soil.

difference of taxonomic compositions of bacteria between soilsfigure 3. bipartite network analysis revealing the shared args and mges between struvite soil nonplanted soil without struvite and phyllosphere of brassica planted in soil amend with struvite.figure 4. boxplot of the abundance of the top 40 shared family level otus between phyllosphere and rhizosphere.figure 5. procrustes test depicting the significant correlation between args contents and shared bacterial taxa composition 16s rrna gene otus data based on the bray-curtis dissimilarity metrics sum of squares m2  0.26 r  0.86 p  0.025 9999 permutations.

of most concern were the 30 genes shared exclusively by phyllosphere and struvite since these genes were the clear candidate args transferring from struvite to phyllosphere.

the shared args between struvite and phyllosphere suggested that struvite could be an important source of resistome in phyllosphere.

pubs.acs.orgestapplication of struvite alters the antibiotic resistome in soil rhizosphere and phyllosphereqing-lin chenxin-li anyong-guan zhu jian-qiang sumichael r. gillingszhi-long ye and li cuikey laboratory of urban environment and health institute of urban environment chinese academy of sciences 1799 jimei roadxiamen 361021 chinauniversity of chinese academy of sciences 19a yuquan road beijing 100049 chinassstate key laboratory of urban and regional ecology research center for eco-environmental sciences chinese academy of sciences beijing 100085 chinadepartment of biological sciences macquarie university sydney new south wales 2109 australia introductionantibiotic resistance is a global public health concern.-extensive application of organic fertilizers such as animal manures and sewage sludge in agriculture is exacerbating this problem.-organic fertilizer is a rich source of nutrients and organic matter for crop growth.

for example additional args were identified in tomato and carrot after application of swine manure and sewage sludge.our previous study also suggested that organically produced lettuce harbored higher abundance of args than conventionally produced.thesethe resistome in the transferring media involved in the whole pathway including organic fertilizer soil rhizosphere and phyllosphere.in addition to conventional organic fertilizers used for nutrient cycling struvite mgnh4po46h2o is considered as an alternative way to recover phosphorus p and nitrogen n from wastewater and can be used as p and n fertilizers for agricultural soils.-p is an essential element for plant growth but has limited reserve on the earth.

