The final OD600 and CFUmL of the different tubes used for analysis were not signifi- cantly different  indicating that activity was increased without a change in the total number of cells.Effect of potassium concentration on hemolytic activity on dental plaque growing on blood agar plates.

A three-dimensional multilayered gingival tissue model with cornified apical layers EpiGingival MatTek Corporation was used to assess the effect of different concentrations of K and bacteria on the profiles of expression of different cytokines.

A three-dimen- sional multilayered gingival tissue model with cornified apical layers EpiGingival MatTek Corporation was used to assess the effect of different concentrations of K and bacteria on the profiles of expression of different cytokines.

The microbial composition of the original inoculum from the different subjects was different as well as the final composition of the com- munities growing on plates .

A Hemolytic activity of whole dental plaque on different concentrations of K added after 6 days of incubation in 2 different biological experiments.

The rest were used for FISH analysis and immunohistochemistry as describe below.Quantification of cytokines using multiplexed bead immunoassay LuminexCytokine levels from 3 biological replicates of the medium surrounding the tissue cultures under the conditions described above were determined using MILLIPLEX MAP Human Cyto- kineChemokine Magnetic Bead Panel-Immunology Multiplex Assay EMD Millipore Biller- ica MA USA.

Although IL-6 and TNF-alpha are normally thought of as pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 followed a complete different pattern of expression than TNF-a being expressed at higher levels at low concentra- tions of K This results seem to indicate that in our gingival epithelial model TNF-a and IL-6 are independently regulated.

Only GO terms with FDR adjusted p-value  0.05 in the 'GOseq' analysis were used.Three-dimensional 3D human gingival tissue modelWe used the EpiGingival GIN-100 MatTek Corp. a multilayered tissue model with the apical layers cornified similar to in vivo gingival tissue.

.We compared the statistical significance of those differences using a non-parametric analysis Kruskall-Wallis correcting for multiple comparisons and found that all values shown in were significantly different except for the results with no plaque plus 50mM K and plaque without K added and plaque plus 50mM of K and no plaque plus 5mM of K .These results indicate that K exerts an inhibitory effect on the production of hBD-3 whichwould clearly weaken the antimicrobial response of the gingival tissue in response to bacterial challenge.ANOVA analysis revealed that there was not an interaction effect between plaque and potassium on hBD-3 production by the gingival epithelial F  0.4148 p  0.661  .

These changes in hemolytic activity were not associated with different levels of growth.

