Ten healthy individuals were randomly sampled from both each pond and paddy in summer and autumn each time.In the intestinal histology enzyme activity and amino acid analysis experiments the fish were carried to the laboratory in oxygen filling bags within 3 h. In the gut microbial analysis experiment the fish tissue samples were collected in fish farm directly and the samples were carried to the laboratory in ice within 3 h. The fish were euthanized by a high dose of MS 222 Yun et al.

In the paddy cultivation mode the diversity indexes of content samples were significant P  0.05 or extremely significant P  0.01 lower than that of epithelial intestinal mucosa and water samples in summer and the diversity indexes of water samples were extremely significant P  0.05 higher than that of epithelial intestinal mucosa and con- tent samples in autumn.

Note the 1-10 in a c e and g were intestine mucosa samples the 1-10 in b and f the 1-6 in d and the 1-7 in h were intestinal contents samples and the last three lanes in each diagram from a to h were water samples.

In a e b and f 1-13 and 14-26 represent the samples which were in summer and autumn respectively 1-10 and 14-23 were intestine mucosa samples and 11-13 and 24-26 were water samples.

In the same cultivation mode and same season uppercase letters represent the extremely significant difference P  0.01 among different samples lowercase letters represent significant difference P  0.05 among different samples.P  0.05 P  0.01 compare with summer samples in the same kind of samples and indexesdifferences in different intestinal segment.

All of the epithelial intestinal mucosa content and water samples were processed under sterile con-ditions and stored at -80 degC for microbiota analysis by PCR-DGGE methods.Intestinal histological analysisFixed samples were wrapped in gauze and rinsed in running water for 12 h and then dehydrated in an ethanol series infiltrated in xylene embedded in paraffin wax and fixed on a wooden block according to routine procedures.

As shown in Table  thediversity indexes of each sample in autumn were higher than that of in summer in paddy cultivation mode except that the water samples had almost no change intestinal mucosa and content samples in autumn were lower than that of in summer in pond cultivation mode.

In the pond cultivation mode the diversity indexes of water samples were extremely signif- icant P  0.05 higher than that of epithelial intestinal mucosa and content samples.

The a- d were the samples which were collected in paddy cultivation mode and the e-h were the samples which were collected in pond cultivation mode0.05 respectively and there were no significant differ- ences P  0.05.

In c and d 1-13 and 14-22 represent the samples which were in summer and autumn respectively 1-10 and 14-19 were intestine content and 11-13 and 20-22 were water samples.

