sciuri s. simulans and s. warneri bovine in s. aureus s. lentus s. sciuri and s. simulans poultry in s. arlettae s. cohnii s. equorum s. rostri s. sciuri and s. simulans and companion animals in s. pseudintermedius .

it has also been detected in clinical strains of s. capitis  and methicillin-resistant s. epidermidis mrse .in staphylococci from animals the cfr gene has been identified in isolates from different sources including pigs in s. aureus s. arlettae s. cohnii s. equorum s. haemolyticus s. hyicus s. saprophyticuss.

moreover the analysis of the corresponding gene loci region with meca gene homologues of s. sciuri and s. vitulinus which evolved from a common ancestor with that of s. fleurettii probed that the meca gene of s. fleurettii descended from its ancestor and was not recently acquired .

on the other hand the studies in companion animals have reported a. baumannii isolates genetically similar to the nosocomial european also called international clones i ii and iii suggesting its spread from humans to animals directly or via the environment .regarding the distribution of amr-genes in a. baumannii in animals some studies have reported the emergence of carbapenemase producing a. baumannii in livestock and companion animals  table .

mecc homologues have been found in other staphylococci s. xylosus s. sciuri and s. stepanovicii associated to cassettes similar to sccmec xi or to composite sccmec together with meca -.

afterwards this gene has been identifiedin methicillin-susceptible s. aureus mssa mrsa various coagulase negative staphylococci cons and in the coagulase-variable s. hyicus .although linezolid resistance mediated by cfr is not frequent in the clinical environment  reports of clinical outbreaks by cfr-containing s. aureus strains have been reported .

2011 2 203.  wendlandt s. fessler a.t. monecke s. ehricht r. schwarz s. kadlec k. the diversity of antimicrobial resistance genes among staphylococci of animal origin.

the meca-containing regions of s. fleurettii strains recovered from animals or its products are similar to the mec region of the s. aureus sccmec type ii.

2011 17 1751-1754.  ewers c. klotz p. leidner u. stamm i. prenger-berninghoff e. gottig s. semmler t. scheufen s. oxa-23 and isaba1-oxa-66 class d b-lactamases in acinetobacter baumannii isolates from companion animals.

coli from livestock blandm-1 in s. enterica sevorar corvallis and e. coli from wild animals andor livestock blaoxa-48 in e. coli and k. pneumoniae from companion animals .

this one health approach recognizes that the human health is connected to the animal health and the environment .the use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine creates a selective pressure for the emergence of antimicrobial resistant bacteria including animal pathogens human pathogens that have animal reservoirs and commensal bacteria from animals  the bacteria selected by this pressure can spread to humans either by direct contact with animals or food products or indirectly via environmental pathways andor non-food producing animals  figure .wildlife rodents birds etc.companion animalsfood animalsdirect contact foodcommunityhumanshealth systemvegetables seed crops and fruitsfigure 1. interactions between groups.

in animals it caused pyoderma otitis and urinary tract infections in companion animals mastitis in dairy cows endometritis in horses and hemorrhagic pneumoniae in fur-bearing animals -.

esbl-producing bacteria have been found as disease agents andor colonizers in livestock companion animals zoo animals and wild animals -.

retrospective analysis of genome sequences has revealed that optra has a wide dissemination in gram-positive bacteria and it has also been found in diverse streptococcus species including s. suis s. agalactiae ands.

in this sense a member of the s. sciuri group the commensal animal-related s. fleurettii has been suggested as the highly probable origin of the meca gene .

