They are commonly found in head and neck infections skin and soft tissue infections infections in the respiratory tract peritoneal fluid blood and abdominal infections 11.

Anaerobicbacterial pathogens are isolated in high frequency 50-100 from gas gangrene diabetic foot infections infections after colorectal surgery and appendectomy perianal abscess non-clostridial crepitant cellulitis lung abscess aspiration pneumonia brain abscess intraperitonealpelvic abscess soft tissuesubcutaneous abscess dentaloral infections chronic sinusitis and mammary abscess 13.

have also been reported to be predominantly isolated from wound infections abscesses abdominal infections and blood 3036.GPAC are frequently isolated from clinical specimens and account for 24-31 of anaerobic isolates 1.

B. fragilis which is known to be the most frequent anaerobic pathogen in polymicrobial infections is associated with a mortality rate of more than 19 42.It is essential that the clinicians recognize the importance of anaerobic bacteria as pathogens and utilize the expertise of the laboratories having facilities for anaerobic culture and susceptibility testing for infections with suspected anaerobic aetiology.

Anaerobic infections General epidemiology of anaerobic infections.

DOI 10.7860JCDR201726009.10311Anaerobic Bacteria in Clinical Specimens - Frequent But a Neglected Lot A Five Year Experience at a Tertiary Care HospitalPadMaja ananth Shenoy1 ShaShidhar ViShwanath2 aShwini Gawda3 SeeMa Shetty4 renuka aneGundi5 Muralidhar VarMa6 Chiranjay MukhoPadhyay7 kiran Chawla8ABSTRACTIntroduction Anaerobic bacteria which constitute a significant proportion of the normal microbiota also cause variety of infections involving various anatomic sites.

Anaerobes are more commonly found in polymicrobial aerobic and anaerobic infections of endogenous origin.

Breach in mucosal barriers due to surgery trauma tumours or ischemia lead to infections by these microbes following entry of endogenous flora into normally sterile sites 23.

The pathogenic anaerobes may cause variety of infections ranging from mild to severe life threatening ones involving various anatomic sites 34.

Varying rates of anaerobic bacterial isolation have been reported across the globe from different clinical infection sites 5-8.Whenever there is high suspicion of anaerobic aetiology the management of such infections is often dependent only on empirical antibiotic therapy.

