furthermore since the occurrence of hgt in a contami- nated site represents the acquisition of biodegradation skills by microbial consortia evaluation of hgt in contaminated site can be used as bioremediation monitoring approach for assessment of a successful biodegradation process.qpcr as a highly sensitive tool for analyzing the quantity of given functional genes found in different bacterial genera is considered for assessment of the quantity of horizontally transferred genes in the contaminated sites.

afr j biotechnol 12476544-6567. doiwickliffe j overton e frickel s howard j wilson m simon b echsner s nguyen d gauthe d blake d miller c elferink c ansari h fernando h trapido e kane a 2014 evaluation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons using analyt- ical methods toxicology and risk assessment research sea- food safety after a petroleum spill as an example.

this review tries to give evidence of successful experiences in studying the horizontal transfer of functional genes in the hydrocarbon- contaminated sites and whether horizontal gene transfer hgt can be used for assessment of the bioremediation po- tential of petroleum-contaminated site and as a monitoring approach for having a successful bioremediation process.horizontal transfer of functional genes between gram-bacteriain the petroleum-contaminated sitesin the bioremediation of petroleum-polluted sites bioavail- ability is one of the most important factors.

chem eng j 30660-66. doishahi a aydin s ince b ince o 2015 evaluation of microbial popu- lation and functional genes during the bioremediation of petroleum- contaminated soil as an effective monitoring approach.

bacterial strains carrying pah genotype are more numerous in the contaminated soils than those carrying nah genes laurie and lloyd-jones .hgt plays an important role in the successful adaptation of bacteria to the contaminated environment boronin and kosheleva .

table summarizes some aerobic aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbon-degrading genes in literature which are found on plasmids in bacteria.a strong relationship between the presence of functional genes and hgt has been reported through various works.

fems microbiol ecol 742276-290. doi hamann c hegemann j hildebrandt a 1999 detection of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon degradation genes in different soil bacteria by polymerase chain reaction and dna hybridization.

res j environ toxicol 51-26. doijordening hj winter j 2004 environmental biotechnology concepts and applications.

functional genes have also been used in the evaluation of the bioavailability of the petroleum hydrocarbons in contaminated sites.

based on numerous related stud- ies alkb gene which encodes alkane monooxygenase enzyme and phnac and nah genes are ideal markers for the evaluation of the petroleum hydrocarbon degradation potential in the contaminated sites shahi et al.

they tested successfully the horizontal transfer of functional gene as an effective monitoring approach for evaluation of thetable 1some aerobic aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbon-degrading genes which are found on plasmids in bacteria and their substrate specificitiesbioremediation process in their project in petroleum- contaminated soil.

they also showed that the assessment of hor- izontal transfer of functional genes is not only a method for checking out the bioremediation manner but also can be used for assessment of the biodegradation potential of contaminated site shahi et al.

successful bioremediation of the petroleum- contaminated soil is dependent on the successful transferring of the functional genes between microbial community mem- bers.

therefore the assessment of functional genes and mobile elements promoting the hgt could be an efficient method for the investigation the biodegradation potential of contaminated site.

orhan ince declares that he has no conflict of interest.ethical approval this article does not contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the authors.appl microbiol biotechnol 2017 1014341-43484347referencesahn y sanseverino j sayler gs 1999 analyses of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria isolated from contaminated soils.

