At homeostasis a higher proportion of DCLK1-positive tuft cells in the small intes- tine expressed high levels of Cox2 Supplemen- tal Figure 9 and Hopx Supplemental Figure10 than in the colon but differences were not observed with the other tuft cell markers.Changes in tuft cell expression profiles after fasting and refeeding.

Increased magnification inset shows projection of the tuft into the luminal space and a clearly defined projection at the tuft cell base scale bar 5 mm.DiscussionOur data demonstrate the ability of MxIF to uncover heterogeneity and dynamic changes in protein expres- sion patterns in a rare cell type the intestinal tuft cell.

Tuft cell stability under these conditions is consistent with the long-lived nature of tuft cells relative to other differentiated intestinal cell types 16 tuft cell resistance to apoptosis following other insults such as radiation 38 compared with other the other differentiated intestinal cell types and the role of DCLK1-positive tuft cells in intestinal regeneration 42-44.

Therefore the enrichment of tuft cells in the intestinal epithelium after fasting is likely due to tuft cell persistence compared with other intestinal cells rather than proliferation of existing tuft cells.

While the present work examined the short-term effects on colonic tuft cells of introducing nonpathogenic microbiota to germ-free mice further studies on the effect of pathogenic bacteria on tuft cell number and function throughout the gastrointestinal tract are warranted.We also demonstrated that similar to that in the mouse p-EGFR is strongly expressed in human intestinal tuft cells Figure 5.

We identified two previously unreported intestinal tuft cell markers Hopx and EGFR phosphotyrosine 1068 p-EGFR and characterized tuft cell heterogeneity based on combinatorial protein profiles in response to two physiological perturbations.

While p-EGFR expression has been observed in tuft cells of the stomach 26 and pan- creas 27 it has not been reported in intestinal tuft cells.

Additionally substantial heterogeneity was observed in the tuft cell population for the 8 putative tuft cell markers analyzed Figure 2B.

B Isolation of the tuft cell island demonstrates uniform DCLK1 expression and heterogeneous patterns of expression of other tuft cell markers.as well as the two novel markers Hopx and p-EGFR Figure 3A.

During this increase in overall tuft cell proportion no change in tuft cell localization along the crypt-villus axis was observed Supplemental Figure 6.

