recent studies have also examined the fungal mycobiota in healthy and allergic cats and dogs which have found significant differences in the fungal communities colonizing the skin  .the objectives of this study were to describe the bacterial microbiota present on different skin surfaces of healthy cats and identify differences between healthy cats and cats with allergic skin disease.

when looking at the different body sites separately lefse also revealed differences in relative taxa abundance between healthy and allergic cats including increased oxalobacteraceae in healthy cats at multiple sites .discussionin this study we demonstrated that the bacterial microbiota on the skin of healthy cats tends to prefer specific body site niches and skin physiologies haired mucosal sebaceous and oral.

to describe the cutaneous bacterial microbiota of cats and determine whether bacterial dysbiosis occurs on the skin of allergic cats the skin surfaces on various regions of 11 healthy cats and 10 allergic cats were sampled.methodologyprincipal findingsgenomic dna was extracted from skin swabs and sequenced using primers that target the v4 region of the bacterial 16s rrna.

research articlethe feline skin microbiota the bacteria inhabiting the skin of healthy and allergic catscaitlin e. older1 alison diesel2 adam p. patterson2 courtney meason-smith1 timothyj.

2017 the feline skin microbiota the bacteria inhabiting the skin of healthy and allergic cats.

by studying the microbiota of skin in healthy individuals a standard is set for what is normal which can subsequently be used to understand how differences in these opportunistic microorganisms may be causing or contrib- uting to infections or disease  .several studies have been performed to describe the microbiota of various body regions in humans including the skin   .

although previous studies have indicated that staphylococcus skin infections are less com- mon in cats - possibly due to decreased adherence to corneocytes   our finding indicates there may be a relationship between allergic skin disease and the increased abun- dance of staphylococcus in cats.healthy and allergic cats also showed differences in community structure samples from healthy cats clustered most by body site whereas samples from allergic cats clustered most by individual cat.

staphylococcus in addition to other taxa was more abundant on allergic skin.conclusionssignificancethis study reveals that there are more bacterial species inhabiting the skin of cats than pre- viously thought and provide some evidence of an association between dysbiosis and skin disease.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.introductionthe body is colonized by a variety of microorganisms.

current studies show that cat ownership could result in decreased  or in- creased    allergies in children and some studies have failed to find any correlation between children allergies and cat ownership .although the human and canine skin microbiota has been described in multiple studies the feline skin microbiota remains somewhat unknown.

most of the recent research on the skin microbiota of cats has focused on staphylococcus due to its role in skin diseases  .

furthermore weexpected to see differences in the diversity and specific bacterial taxa present on the skin of allergic cats compared to those without skin disease.materials and methodsthis study had been approved by the texas am university tamu institutional animal care and use committee under 2012-139. informed consent to enroll clinical cases into the study was obtained from each client.participantscollection of samples from all animals enrolled in this study followed a protocol approved by the texas am university institutional animal care and use committee.healthy cats.

all cats were evalu- ated by a board certified dermatologist and none had skin lesions history of pruritus or any history of skin disease in the past 6 months.

skin swabs were collected from 6 sites from the allergic cats axilla ear canal groin interdigital skin lumbar region and nostril.

out of the skin physiologies compared haired mucosal oral and sebaceous haired skin had the highest richness and evenness while mucosal surfaces had the lowest  .

four phyla proteobacteria bacteroidetes firmicutes and actinobacteria accounted for 97.5 of the bacteria found in the samples.we found the same phyla that were most abundant on the skin of dogs  were also the most abundant on feline skin however in a different order proteobacteria followed by bac- teroidetes firmicutes and actinobacteria.

