Many species of clostridia can produce powerful neurotoxins and these have been implicated in ASD with a greater number of clostridial species found in the stools of children with autism than in the stools of control children and with certain clostridial species being found to be specific to autistic individuals and not present in non-autistic children Finegold et al.

ADOS module 1 was used for children without phrase speech and module 2 for children with phrase speech.

Differences between the gut micro- flora of children with autistic spectrum disorders and that of healthy children.

VC 2017 International Society for Autism Research Wiley Periodicals Inc.Keywords metabolomics autistic children siblings biomarkersIntroductionAutism spectrum disorders ASD are psychiatric dis- eases characterized by several abnormalities such as impaired social interaction severely hampered verbal and non-verbal communication restricted and repeti- tive behaviors and several associated co-morbid disor- ders including gastrointestinal GI symptoms American Psychiatric Association 2013.

The basal rationale of this study design is that the analysis between siblings will avoidreduce confounding factors such as diet age gender and environment thus allow- ing a better identification of the metabolic fingerprint related with the disease.Material and MethodsPatient Selection and Sample Collection and StorageIn this study 21 children aged 4-16 years 3 female and 18 male mean age 8.15 SD 6 3.3 and 21 siblings aged4-17 years 11 female and 10 male mean age 9.5 SD 6 4.1 as normal controls were enrolled from the Pediat- ric Division of University of Bari Italy.

Through NMR analysis we observed an increased levels of uri- nary tryptophan in autistic children and previous GC- MS metabolomic screening revealed increased amounts of both tryptophan and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid 5- HIAA the main metabolite of serotonin Noto et al.

1984 suggests an alteration of the metabolism of this essential amino acid and precursor of the serotoninergic system in autis- tic children which might be associated to the behavior- al abnormalities of infantile autism.

In accordance with our own findings Kaluz na- Czaplin'ska 2011 found an increased level which may be influenced by gut bacterial amino acid metabolism while other investigators observed a trend toward decreased hippurate excretion in samples from autistic children Emond et al.

This is in tone with other studies that have shown that children with ASD often suffer from dysregulated amino acid metabo- lism Aldred Moore Fitzgerald  Waring 2003 Ghani- zadeh 2013.

In detail in our study glutamate urinary level was lower in autistic children while glycine was increased in accordance with previous observations Yap et al.

