6. specific power yield spy observed at four different anode placements against six cycles of operation.cell potentials along with anode and cathode against an external re- sistance were individually evaluated c. with the uniform cathode configuration maintained in all the reactor setups under constant oper- ating conditions the variation in cathode potential was minimal within a range of 98 - 6 mv in all the electrode distance variation studied thereby making the anode potential the governing factor c. the maximum anode potential 428 mv was observed with 6 cm operation correlating to the higher capacitative currents followed by 4 cm 337 mv 2 cm 297 mv and 1 cm 278 mv.

the in- crease in electrode distance develops an oxidative stress on the anode which is a virtue for enhanced substrate degradation whereas for power optimal electrode distance is essential as observed from the po- larization curves.cyclic voltammetry cv profiles vs agagcl showed variation in electron e- discharge patterns with the function of electrode distances b. amongst the four variations 6 cm depicted the maximum oxidative catalytic currents seen in the forward sweep of 13.6 ma followed by 4 cm 12.78 ma 2 cm 10.9 ma and 1 cm 8.0 ma reit- erating the increased electrode distance which play majorly in oxidative reactions that would help in improved substrate degradation compared to lower electrode distances.

5. apolarization behavior observed with four different anode positionsplacements in single chamber mfc against sixth cycles of operation b bio-electrochemical behavior observed with cyclic voltammetry and c anode potentials and rdap evaluation with four different anode placements at during sixth cycle 6cm 4cm 2cm and 1cm of operation.dissolved oxygen do influence on bioelectrocatalysis phase 2do is observed as one of the major influential factor on the bioelectricity generation.

inter-electrode distance plays a pivotal role in proton gradient development and transfer across the chambers up to an opti- mal electrode distance.

however as the distance increases beyond a given range the communication between the electrodes gets lost low- ering the power output and current density which could possibly eval- uated through polarization profiles.bio-electrokineticspolarization curves were recorded after the system attained stable performance a. the maximum power density 33 mwm2 was observed with an inter electrode distance of 2 cm corresponding to the maximum voltage of 495 mv with the cell design point at 400 o followed by 4 cm 24.38 mwm2300 o 1 cm 21.19 mwm2 300 o and 6 cm 18.89 mwm2 350 o. maximum resistance for cell design point was observed with 2 cm variation followed by 6 4 and1 cm.

the decrement in the currents with decrease in the electrode distance 2 cm and 1 cm correlates with the reduced cathodic currents and increased oxidation with the func- tion of distance.

a multiphasic approach was employed where the influence of do on bio-electrogenic activity was optimized initially later optimal anode to cathode inter-electrode distance was enumerated.

vertical bars with a screw facility was provid- ed to enable placement of the anode at the desired distance from the stationary cathode viz.

the start-up phase was evaluated by placing anode at a 6 cm distance from the cathode.

3.45 mg dol 1.6 mg dol 0.8 mg dol andmg dol were evaluated at a constant anode and cathode distance of 6 cm.

anode with dotted lines indicating its apparent placement at four experimental variations studied a1 a2 a4 and a6 represents interelectrode distance in centimeters.

anode potential controls the ki- netics of electron transfer with the functional variation in the electrontransfer mechanism and the biofilm formation on the anode.

the redox behavior showed an increase in cathodic catalytic activity with an increase in the inter-electrode distance.

the study was carried out using a multiphasic approach that includes a startup phase optimization of do concentration optimization of interelectrode distance and microbial diversity analysis.

the performance of sbr-bet at an op- timized do concentration from second stage by varying interelec- trode distance was studied as the third phase.

