When com- pared with 12 h Pseudomonas increased sharply at first accounting for 47.8 at 36 h and then declined sharply accounting for 6.8 at 60 h. Enterobacteriaceae consti- tuted 78.9 at 12 h then dropped sharply to 40.4 at 36 h and then increased again to 67.9 at 60 h. At the genus level Pseudomonas Tatumella Pantoea Acinetobacter Lactococcus and Enterobacter constituted more than 90 among which the abundance of Pseudomonas increased to 62.4 at 36 h and then fell to 10.1 at 60 h whereas the abundance of the other five genera decreased after an initial increase.

The alpha diversity of fungi was low and had no significant change whereas the alpha diversity of bacteria increased over the course of pepper peeling by solid-state fermentation.The Structure of the Microbiota During Pepper PeelingAfter 60 h of fermentation the peeling process was com- plete and the peeled pepper was obtained.

The present researchclarifies the solid-state fermentation method of pepper peeling and lays a theoretical foundation to promote the development of the pepper peeling process and the produc- tion of high-quality white pepper.Keywords Piper nigrum L.  Solid-state fermentation  Microbiota  Metagenomic sequencing  Aspergillus nigerIntroductionPepper Piper nigrum L. is a perennial evergreen climbing liana with a spicate inflorescence and globose fruit.

a UniFrac distances was performed using the high-throughput sequencing data obtained from the pepper samples at different peeling time points after we had clarified the dominant bacterial community.The changes in the fungal community structure on the pericarp at different peeling time points 12 24 36 48 and 60 h are shown in the upper panel of Fig.

The pep- per was inoculated with 5 of bran koji and covered with newspaper and then kept for 60 h at room temperature and sampled once every 12 h. The detailed sampling schedule is listed in Table .Table 1 Sample information and alpha diversity during peelingSample Processing and DNA ExtractionDNA was extracted from pepper samples using a QIAGEN DNA Mini-Kit QIAGEN Hilden Germany in combina- tion with a bead-beating method .

c. The inoculated A. niger was the most abundant species at every time point account- ing for more than 95 of fungi before 48 h and 85.8 at 60 h although it decreased eventually.

b the structure of the bacterial communitychanged from 12 to 36-48 h and in the end 60 h it tended to be similar to that at 12 h as shown by the UniFrac evolu- tionary distance in Fig.

At the species level A. niger remained above 96 before 48 h and then dropped to 85.8 at 60 h whereas T. asahii showed a sharp increase accounting for 13.4 at 60 h and C. tropicalis also increased.

reported that Acinetobacter and Pseudomonas could play a useful role in lignin degradation.In the present study we presented a comprehensiveinterpretation of the microbiota changes in the process of pepper peeling by solid-state fermentation using A. niger CICC40273 and we revealed that Pseudomonas and Aci- netobacter acted synergistically with A. niger CICC40273 during the peeling process.

3 a The dynamic profile in fungal genus and species during peeling.

