the microbial environment provided by farm animals is crucial to induce this protective effect although underlying immune mechanisms remain elusive.objective to establish a mouse model of global exposure to the farming environment and to study immunologic changes linked to protection of allergy.methods mice colonies were bred in parallel in a farm cowshed and the university animal facility af.

mice transfers between the af and the farm showed a better protection when mice were moved to the farm early in life.

microbiome analysis showed differences between 4 and 20 weeks old mice and between farm and af mice with an increased number of murine mastadenovirus b in young farm mice exclusively.conclusion the farming environment provides a strong allergy protective il-22 stimulus and generates activated cd4 t cells.

exposure to the farm environment early in their life may also provide a better protection for contact skin allergy.whether a viral trigger might decisively influence protection for allergies remains to be determined.keywords allergy farming environment gut microbiome mastadenoviruses t cell tolerancesubmitted 17 october 2016 revised 6 january 2017 accepted 8 february 2017introductionthe pathogenesis of allergy is multi-factorial and mostly influenced by early life factors such as the environment and genetic factors 1. in the environ- ment various micro-organisms have been identified to be protective for allergy 2 3. among specific environ- mental exposures the farm loaded with microbialcompounds due to the presence of cattle and other ani- mals has been recognized as a strongly protective envi- ronment for atopy in young children.

the initial observations were made in a rural alpine area of switzerland where children raised in farms were found to have less allergies than children living in the same area but not in a farm 4. a cross-sectional study including farmers' and non-farmers' children fromaustria germany and switzerland confirmed that the 'protective farming effect' was more specifically observed in children regularly exposed to farm animals and consuming non-pasteurized milk when younger than 1 year.

these children had lower frequencies of asthma 1 vs. 11 hay fever 3 vs. 13 and ato- pic sensitization 12 vs. 29 when compared to non-farmers' children 5. further studies thereafter confirmed the strong protective effect of the farming environment on allergy mostly related to factors robustly stimulating the innate immune system 6. only a few specific factors provided by the farming environment that is consumption of non-pasteurized milk exposure to farm pigs and exposure to hay were crucial for benefiting from the protective 'farming effect' 6. finally contact with farm animals in early childhood reduces the risk of atopic sensitization in adulthood suggesting long-lasting protective effects 7. these observations raise a common hypothesis that is a strong activation of the innate immune system with microbial products may boost organisms to an immune status less prone to develop allergies.

as the only notable difference in the farm offsprings were born only between spring and fall whereas birth occurred throughout the year at the af.farming environment protects mice for allergen-induced skin contact hypersensitivityto assess whether the farm environment was protective for the induction of allergies we used a skin allergy model with primary sensitization with fitc a skinfig.

d ear thickening difference of the challenged ear with the control ear in animals either from the af group a and f2 animals bred at the farm group b or mice transferred to the farm at various ages group c to e. results represent medians of 12-15 micegroup.

2. af mice group a presented a clear swelling of the ear with up to threefold increase in ear thickness when compared to farm mice group b p  0.01. we then explored whether the protection could be conferred to mice that were not bred in farm.

transfer to the farm at 2 days of life with the mothers followed by a 4 weeksacclimation period gave the same protection than being born in the farm fig.

we then looked at subtypes of cd3 cells and found that while the percentage of cd8 cells was lower the cd4 cell percentage was increased in the farm mice suggesting an activation of cd4 cells in the farm environment.

these data suggest that exposure to cowshed environmental factors early in life favours the expansion of activated t cells.activated t cells have an environment-specific pattern of cytokine productionfollowing the observation that activated t cells were enhanced in farm mice we assessed the cytokine pro- duction pattern of t cells from 4 and 20 weeks old af and farm mice fig.

il-17 and il-22 production tended to be enhanced in 4 weeks old farm mice and inhibited in 20 weeks old farm mice with a statistically significant difference only for il-22.

a great majority of these reads 91-95 were assigned to mas- tadenovirus table 1. all of the reads mapping to genus mastadenovirus were classified at the species level as murine mastadenovirus b. in mice from the three other subgroups 20-week-old farm mice and 4- and 20-week- old af mice mastadenovirus remained undetected and viruses in general had much lower counts table 1 and table s1.discussionbeing born and growing up in a farm provides probably the best protection from allergies in young children.

we were also interested to correlate the allergic response to the timing of exposure to the farm as the specific immune response in farm mice was seen mostly during the 8 initial weeks of life.

