Moreover the three S. cerevisiae isolates were found positive to the amylase activity assay a trait which has been scarcely in- vestigated in S. cerevisiae sourdough isolates.

To this aim we utilized i a culture-independent approach Polymerase Chain Reac- tion PCR Denaturating Gradient Gel Electrophoresis DGGE a molec- ular technique able to avoid underestimates deriving from the constraints of culture conditions and from the presence of microorgan- isms in Viable But Non-Culturable VBNC state ii a culture-dependent approach to isolate and molecularly identify LAB and yeast species iiia preliminary qualitative screening to characterize LAB and yeasts with functionally important traits.Materials and methodsSourdough samplingThe sourdough analyzed in this study was collected from the Con- sortium of Promotion and Protection of Tuscan Sourdough Bread - Consorzio Pane Toscano a Lievitazione Naturale CPT.Microbiological analysis and isolation of LAB and yeastsThree samples of about 10 g of PDO Tuscan bread sourdough were homogenized in a sterile stomacher bag containing 90 mL of saline-pep- tone water 9 gL NaCl 1 gL bacteriological peptone Oxoid MilanItaly for 2 min at 260 rpm using a Stomacher Stomacher 400 Labora- tory Blender.

The BLAST analysis of 26S D1D2 region sequences of two representative isolates IMA 11Y and IMA 33Y con- firmed the identity of our isolates as C. milleri .Table 2Lactic acid bacteria and yeasts characterizing the PDO Tuscan bread sourdough identification by sequencing of different representative isolate genes and of DNA fragments in DGGE profiles.Fig.

The BLAST analysis of ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 and 26S D1D2 region sequences confirmed the identity of the three isolates IMA 19Y IMA 36Y and IMA 105Y as S. cerevisiae .To determine the species affiliation of our 65 Candida isolates all 650 bp ITS amplicons were sequenced and examined using BLAST and phylogenetic trees analyses.

The sequences were submitted to the European Nucleotide Archive under the acces- sion numbers from LT605080 to LT605156 and from LT718652 to LT718656.Molecular characterization of PDO Tuscan bread sourdough by PCR- DGGEDNA was extracted from the three PDO Tuscan bread sourdough samples by using Power Soil DNA Isolation kit MO-BIO Laboratories according to the manufacturer's protocol and stored at -20 degC until fur- ther analyses.For the analysis of LAB communities the V3-V4 region of 16S rRNA gene was amplified with the Lac1 5'-AGC AGT AGG GAA TCT TCC A- 3' and Lac2 5'-ATT YCA CCG CTA CAC ATG-3' primers  .

In particular the ability to solubilize phytate wasTable 3 Phytase protease and amylase activities of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts isolated from the PDO Tuscan bread sourdough.found in 18 out of the 96 L. sanfranciscensis isolates while among yeasts this trait was detected in all the S. cerevisiae isolates and in 3 out of the 65C.

The expected 16S rRNA gene amplicon of 1468 pb was ob- tained for all the 96 LAB isolates.

Dendrogram obtained from UPGMA analysis using Dice's coefficient of combined ARDRA profiles of 96 LAB isolates and LAB reference strains.

However further investigations are needed in order to exploit the most important functional properties of yeast sourdough isolates for the production of baked goods.The molecular identification of the selected 96 LAB was carried out by ARDRA and sequence analysis.

The amplification of the V3-V4region of 16S rRNA gene of LAB and of the partial D1D2 domain of 26S rRNA gene of yeasts from the three sourdough samples produced a DNA fragment of approximately 326 and 250 bp respectively.

