forfurther study we chose ahr a mediator involved in many biological processes including immunological and inflammatory responses cell differentiation cell adhesion and migration14 and in humans is directly linked to and significantly improves wound healing.20initially ahr was characterized by its regulation of detoxifying enzymes in response to environmental toxins but this is now thought to be a secondary function since ahr is highly conserved throughout evolution and anthropogenic environmental toxins are a relatively new phenomenon.15 activation of ahr can be elicited by both exogenous and endogenous ligands.15 in the inactive state ahr is located in the cytoplasm and upon activation it translocates to the nucleus where it dimerizes with the ahr nuclear translocator and subsequently interacts with the xenobiotic-dioxin-response element in the promo- tor region of target genes.

as this is an important tf that is involved in regulation of manytable 1 list of transcriptional regulators with predicted altered activity in response to s. mitis lysate.upstream regulatormolecule typepredicted activation stateactivationz-scoreheat shock factor protein 1transcription regulatoractivated3 098paired box protein pax-7transcription regulatoractivated3 030 hairyenhancer-of-split related with yrpw motif protein 1transcription regulatoractivated2 586 myocyte-specific enhancer factor 2ctranscription regulatoractivated2 578 heart- and neural crest derivatives-expressed protein 1transcription regulatoractivated2 449 ccaatenhancer-binding protein alphatranscription regulatoractivated2 430estrogen receptor betaligand-dependent nuclear receptoractivated2 392aryl hydrocarbon receptorligand-dependent nuclear receptoractivated2 368transcription factor sp3transcription regulatoractivated2 360transcription factor dp-1transcription regulatoractivated2 330x-box-binding protein 1transcription regulatoractivated2 253ccaatenhancer-binding protein betatranscription regulatoractivated2 224krueppel-like factor 1transcription regulatoractivated2 213early growth response protein 1transcription regulatoractivated2 197 peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alphatranscription regulatoractivated2 173 methyl-cpg-binding domain protein 2transcription regulatoractivated2 128sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1transcription regulatoractivated2 095histone acetyltransferase kat5transcription regulatoractivated2 025 ww domain-containing transcription regulator protein 1transcription regulatoractivated2 000 cyclic amp-responsive element-binding protein 3-like protein 4transcription regulatoractivated2 000 hepatic leukemia factortranscription regulatorinhibited-2 000transcriptional repressor protein yy1transcription regulatorinhibited- 2 021cop9 signalosome complex subunit 5transcription regulatorinhibited- 2 155transcription regulator protein bach1transcription regulatorinhibited- 2 172nuclear factor 1 c-typetranscription regulatorinhibited- 2 236death domain-associated protein 6transcription regulatorinhibited- 2 392kelch-like ech-associated protein 1transcription regulatorinhibited- 2 408nuclear receptor ror-alphaligand-dependent nuclear receptorinhibited- 2 579proto-oncogene c-reltranscription regulatorinhibited- 2 868relevant biological functions including immunological and inflam- matory responses cell differentiation cell adhesion and migration14 and in humans is directly linked to and significantly improves wound healing this was chosen for further study.functional analyses of the downstream target genes of the remain- ing tfs revealed that the inhibited tfs were involved in regulation of different cell death mechanisms while the activated tfs clustered mainly within regulation of metabolic processes table 2.exposure to s. mitis triggers ahr activation in oral epithelial cells to verify whether s. mitis induces ahr activation we carried out immunofluorescence microscopy on cultured monolayers of primary human oral keratinocytes and observed increased nuclear transloca- tion of ahr in cultures exposed to s. mitis for 20 min as compared with untreated controls figure 1a.

mitis triggers release of pge2the differential expression of four highly diverse pge2 receptors in various types of cells assigns the lipid mediator pge2 with quite diverse and dose-dependent biological effects.17 human airway epithelial cells exposed to cigarette smoke extracts show an ahr-mediated increase in pge2 secretion.18 we screened the supernatant of oral keratinocytes after 6 h exposure to s. mitis using a pge2 elisa and found a 127-fold increase in pge2 levels in response to s. mitis that was partially impaired by the ahr inhibitor figure 3. the observed differences between the elevated pge2 levels in response to s. mitis relative to unstimulated cells and between the reduced pge2 levels by ahr inhibitor relative to s. mitis alone were both statistically significant po0.05.figure 1 s. mitis activates ahr in oral epithelial cells.

among the aa metabolites prostaglandins are shown to activate ahr but only at levels exceeding that of physiological concentrations.24 conversely ahr can modulate inflammation by regulating pge2 as shown in this study and by others.1825 pge2 is not only a mediator of acute inflammation but has also immunosuppres- sive properties that in the final phases of wound healing contribute to the resolution of inflammation and facilitation of tissue regeneration.26 differential expression of four highly diverse pge2 receptors with high- and low-affinity receptors in various types of cells can part explain the divergent effects of pge2.27-28 gram-negative g- bacterial species are shown to induce higher amounts of pge2 compared to gram-positive g species.29 epithelial cells current study and monocytes29 exposed to g species s. mitis showed pge2 levels of  120 and  1 000 pgml - 1 respectively but both displayed significantly lower levels compared to g- bacterial species 5 000 pgml - 1. the currently detected pge2 secretion was par- tially regulated by ahr.

activation and functionality of ahr was confirmed through nuclear translocation determined by immunofluorescence microscopy and real-time polymerase chain reaction with reverse transcription analysis of cyp1a1 the hallmark gene for ahr activation.

the concept that the oral commensal microbiota can induce ahr activation is important also in view of the role that ahr has in modulation of t-cell differentiation and as an anti-inflammatory factor in macrophages.international journal of oral science 2017 9 145-150 doi10.1038ijos.2017.17 published online 16 june 2017keywords aryl hydrocarbon receptor commensal inflammation oral epithelium prostaglandin e2 streptococcusintroductionthe immune system and other organs depend on successful mutualistic interaction with the commensal microbiota for normal development and function.

next we analyzed by real-time rt-pcr the regulation of target gene cytochrome p450 1a1table 2 list of top five biological processes affected by the downstream target genes of the 20 activated 342 target genes and nine inhibited 95 target genes transcription factorspathway idpathway descriptioncountcyp1a1 a hallmark gene for ahr activation15 in oral keratinocytes exposed to s. mitis with or without the ahr inhibitor ch-223191.

by contrast neither s. gordonii normutans induced increased transcription of cyp1a1 after incubationwith human primary keratinocytes indicating that ahr activation is a species-specific characteristic limited to restricted types of oral commensals including s. mitis.we next examined the effect of s. mitis on the expression of three ahr target genes in oral keratinocytes cxcl1 cxcl2 and cxcl8 chemokines that are important in recruitment of granulocytes and to initiate inflammation.

the concept that the oral commensal microbiota can induce ahr activation is important also in view of the role that ahr has in modulation of t-cell differentiation into th17 and treg cells.

transcription factor analysis of oral keratinocytes predicted s. mitis-mediated activation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr.

introduction of an ahr-specific inhibitor revealed that s. mitis-mediated transcription of cxcl2 and cxcl8 was regulated by ahr.

elevated levels of prostaglandin e2 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in supernatants from s. mitis-treated oral epithelial cells were also attenuated by inhibition of ahr activity.

among several other factors we found that the transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr was activated and this was further examined.1department of oral biology faculty of dentistry university of oslo oslo norway and 2institute of clinical dentistry faculty of dentistry university of oslo oslo norway correspondence dr sa engen department of oral biology faculty of dentistry university of oslo pb 1052 blindern oslo n-0316 norwaye-mail accepted 28 march 2017materials and methodsbacterial strainsovernight cultures of s. mitis ccug 31611 t were prepared from glycerol stocks by inoculating 10 ml of stock in 10 ml fresh tryptone soy broth tsb thermofisher waltham ma usa and incubated at 37 deg c and 5 co2 saturation.

the cells were then incubated for 24 h. after incubation the cells were collected as described above and lysed in rlt buffer qiagen valencia ca usa supplemented with 1 2- mercaptoethanol qiagen for rna extraction.for analysis of cytokine production and ahr activity by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction rt-pcr 5 x 105 cells were seeded in six-well plates in complete k-sfm and incubated at 37 degc and 5 co2 saturation.

before stimulation all wells were washed in pbs and pre-incubated for 1 h in reduced k-sfm with or without 10 mmol l-1 ahr inhibitor ch-223191 sigma-aldrich.

