troubleshootingtroubleshooting advice can be found in .timingsteps 1-19 cultivation of caco-2raji cell monolayers on permeable supports 30-35 d steps 20-28 particle transport assays up to 2 h evaluation of caco-2 cell monolayer conversion to a functional m-cell-like cell monolayer 2-4 h determination of commercial nanoparticle transport in the apical-to-basal direction by monocultures and cocultures 30 min-2 h without the facs analysis add 1 h for facs analysis start 1 h before the experiment visualization of nanoparticles in the cell monolayers by confocal microscopy 30 min-2 h not including confocal analysis add between 1 and 4 h for confocal analysis depending on the number of samples study of the interaction of m-like cells with bacteria 4 hanticipated resultsthe images of monocultures and cocultures typically obtained by tem and sem microscopy to study cell morphology are shown in .

a major challenge regarding m-like cell models is to obtain reproducible levels of m-like-cell function on every filter but a key advantage is the use of human cell lines and not primary cell cultures.to obtain a model for human m cells enterocyte-like caco-2 cells were cocultured with raji cells a human b-lymphocyte cellline.

the interaction of bacteria and viruses including salmonella or hiv with the intestinal epithelium can also be evaluated especially to study their mechanisms of entry and to develop novel drugs to prevent this.box 1  evaluation of caco-2 cell monolayer conversion to a functional m-cell-like cell monolayer  timing 2-4 hhere we provide guidelines for evaluating caco-2 conversion to a functional m-cell-like cell monolayer.

acetonitrile for hplcequipmenttwo cell incubators 37 degc one set to 5 co2 for rpmi medium for raji cell culture and another set to 10 co2 for dmem medium for caco-2 cell culture with a water-saturated atmosphereorbital shaker incubator e.g.

the insert medium can be stored in the refrigerator at 4 degc for up to 1 month.raji culture medium prepare different media types depending on whether the medium will be used to maintain the cells in 75-cm2 cell culture flasks raji cell medium 500 ml of rpmi  5 ml of neaa  5 ml of l-glutamine  50 ml of fbs  5 ml of pest or to freeze the cells raji freezing medium raji cell medium 95 volvol and dmso 5 volvol.

this model had the advantage of keeping the two cell types separated to enable gene expression studies in a search for m-like cell surface targets for ligands that could be used in oral vaccine studies.

transfer hbss from the basolateral side of each well in the facs tubes and add 5 ul of red beads sphero beads gentaur per ml of cell suspension as an internal standard for facs analysis.advantages and limitations of the protocolthe main advantages of this model are that it i is based on coculture using well-established differentiated human cell lines ii is reproducible under the conditions described in this protocol iii can be easily mastered and iv does not require the isolation of primary cells and thus contributes to support of the three rs replacement reduction and refinement.

this model has been used to investigate the signaling pathways involved in m-cell differentiation.overview of the procedurethe present protocol consists of four main parts i caco-2 cell seeding onto permeable supports steps 1-9 ii inversion of the inserts steps 10-14 iii raji cell seeding in the basola- teral compartment step 15 and iv transport studies across m cells steps 16-28. part ii is illustrated by supplementary video 1. describes controls for evaluating the functional- ity of the cocultured m-like-cell model.

356237dyes for cell monolayer staining alexa fluor488-phalloidin or rhodamine- phalloidin to stain cell cytoskeleton molecular probes cat.

resuspend the cells in 40 ml of raji cell medium and seed them in 75-cm2 cell culture flasks placed vertically in the incubator 5 co2.

transport experiments are always carried out in parallel in both caco-2 cell monocultures and caco-2raji cell cocultures monolayers in order to compare transport under the same conditions and with the same number of test and control inserts.

for example per 165-cm2 flask we normally use 5 ml oftrypsin and 25 ml of medium to inactivate it.6 transfer the cell suspension to a falcon tube evaluate the volume with the pipette and pipette gently in order to disperse cell aggregates.

in  lipidic nanoparticles labeled with coumarin-6 green can be observed within caco-2 cell monolayers nuclei stained with dapi blue and cell membranes stained with rhodamine-phalloidine red.

cell membranes are stained in red with rhodamine- phalloidine and cell nuclei are stained in blue with dapi.

effect of cell differentiation and passage number on the expression of efflux proteins in wild type and vinblastine-induced caco-2 cell lines.

