mutations in genes involved in cell wall homeostasis and cell membrane phospholipid metabolism in enterococcus faecalis and s. aureus affected the cell surface resulting in it becoming more positively charged which repelled dapto- mycin reducing binding to the cell membrane.3132overexpression of fabi was previously shown to not only confer resistance to triclosan but also to isoniazid an anti- tuberculosis agent.3334 we have shown in this study that overexpression of the epimerase gale not only confers a reduced susceptibility to ctab but also to cpc.

only pcc1bacgale and pcc1bacgpi-gale e. coli showed reduced susceptibility to ctab suggesting that only gale was responsible for the ctab resistance in e. coli.

analysis of the e. coli host cell surface showed that the charge was more positive in the presence of gale which likely reduces the binding of these positively charged antiseptics to the bacteria.

5. the bar chart represents the amount of cytochrome c bound to pcc1bac and gale e. coli at the cell density from od600 of 1-7. the error bars represent standard deviation from three biological replicates.

this is the first time gale has been shown to confer resistance against quaternary ammonium compounds and represents a novel epimerase-based global cell adaptation which confers resistance to cationic antimicrobials.keywords udp-glucose 4-epimerase gale enoyl-acyl carrier protein reductase oral metagenome antiseptic resistance fabiintroductionntimicrobial resistance is one of the world's major public health problems.

5. as cytochrome c is a cationic peptide that can bind to the negatively charged bacterial cell surface the reduced binding of cytochrome c to e. colipcc1bac gale indicates that the cell surface is more positively charged in this clone.

coupled with their low toxicity qacs are used widely as disinfectants in various industries and environments such as food processing cleaning prod- ucts and healthcare environments.24 their antimicrobial activity begins with the absorption to and penetration into the cell wall followed by disorganization of the cell mem- brane leading to leakage and degradation of intracellular material and subsequent cell lysis.12several studies on qac resistance have been reported previously including resistance in listeria and salmonella detected in food industries.25-27 in most cases an increase in mic was found but this was still below the concen- tration used in industries or no cross-tolerance to other antimicrobials has been detected.

previously a mutation of gale in campylobacter jejuni was shown to reduce the molecular weight of lps lipid a-core and also the ability of the bacteria to adhere and invade human int 407 hela derivative cells.30our results showed that the cell surface charge was less negative due to the presence of the cloned gale possibly from v. parvula.

as the reactions catalyzed by gale are reversible the overexpression of a heterologous epimerase is likely to affect the balance of substrates due to altered enzyme kinetics during lps production which will ultimately affect cell surface charge.the alteration of cell surface charge was previously shown to confer resistance to daptomycin a cationic antimicrobial peptide.

the oral meta- genome was extracted as described previously.9 the library was then constructed with pcc1bac vector and trans- formed into transformax epi300 electrocompetent e. coli and individual clones stored in microtiter plates at -80degc as described previously.7library screening and minimum inhibitory concentration determinationthe minimum inhibitory concentration mic of antimi- crobial compounds was determined against e. coli epi300 containing pcc1bac vector to be used as the concen- trations for the screening.

the overnight culture was diluted to od600 of 0.1. in a 96-well plate 90 ml of lb broth containing 12.5 mgml chloram- phenicol and different concentration of antimicrobials lis- ted in table 1 and 10 ml of diluted e. coli were added to thetable 1. minimum inhibitory concentration breakpoints for various antimicrobials againstescherichia coli epi300 containing empty pcc1bac vector to use for library screeningwells to make a total 100 ml volume.

coli suggested that they were similar and would be able to function in e. coli.

statistical analysis was carried out by using t-test to determine whether the amounts of cytochrome c bound to e. colipcc1bac and e. colipcc1bacgale at each cell density were statistically significantly different with p-value 0.05  or p-value 0.005 .resultsfunctional screening for antimicrobial resistance genesbefore the screening the mic breakpoints for various antimicrobials against e. coli epi300 containing pcc1bac vector were determined by broth microdilution method.

4. the alignment of gale amino acid sequences from the a10f2 clone v. parvula and e. coli.

expressing a heterologous gale gene possibly from v. parvula in e. coli will likely result in a higher epimerase activity in the cells.

