to lend further support to the fermentation hypothesis for animal signalling we now couple deep sequencing techniques with chemical analyses of those secretions to more directly link host-bacteria relationships to chemical signals.we first use gas chromatography-mass spectrometry gcms to test for volatile chemical differences between the pure glandular secretions and the mixtures contained within the anal pouch of adult meerkats.

bacterial distance was calculated using a all otus or b the 7 otus that best explained the males' chemical profiles.discussioncoupling deep sequencing of the bacterial 16 s rrna gene with chemical analyses of meerkat glandular secre- tions we provide a rare exploration of the patterns within and relationships between the host's volatile chemical signals and its bacterial assemblages.

we used linear models to determine if oturichness and chemical compound richness were related to the animal's sex social class the two-way interaction between these two factors or to the animal's group membership.we evaluated covariance between chemical compounds and bacterial assemblages in mixed paste using mantel tests vegan package in r. when the covariance was significant we used the bv.step procedure in r equivalent to the bvstep procedure in best in the software primerto select the combination of otus that best explained the chemical composition of odorants.

we therefore restricted our analyses of chemical and bacterial covar- iation to those chemical compounds that had lower retention time than that of nonadecane c19h40 molecu- lar weight 268 d. in addition because pure anal-gland secretions were sampled from subordinates only we restricted the comparison between pure secretions and mixtures to subordinate meerkats.we performed all statistical analyses using the r statistical softwareand express values as mean -stand- ard error se throughout.

all compounds listed above had an assignment probability 88.figure 2. nmds plots based on bray-curtis distances in a the chemical composition and b the bacterial community of anal-pouch mixtures showing separation between meerkats by their sex and social class 2d stress of 0.12 and 0.18 for chemical composition and bacterial community respectively.

across sexes four of the eight otus that best explained the chemical composition of anal-pouch mixtures belonged to the genus porphyromonas some of whose members are known to generate volatile fatty acidsor oral malodour in humans.as detected in wild hyaenas we also found that the bacterial assemblages and volatile chemical profiles covaried among individual meerkats albeit principally within males.

second because these mixtures are more likely than pure secretions to resemble the actual scent marks that are deposited in the environment we next relate the volatile chemical profiles of the mixtures to various meerkat attributes including sex social status and group membership.

within individual samples richness in lmw compounds was also greater in mixtures than in pure secre- tions 29.0 - 1.compounds vs. 19.9 - 0.8 compounds t148 7.1 p 0.0001. moreover for mixtures these lmwtable 1. mean percentage -se of the chemical compounds putatively identified in the pure and mixed anal gland secretions of subordinate meerkats.

a partial dbrda based on jaccard distance in chemical composition in anal-pouch mixtures and b partial db- rda based on bray-curtis distances in bacterial communities in anal-pouch mixtures.

in great tits parus major the sizeof the scent gland and the composition in glandular wax esters vary with experimentally increased bacterial load on the feathers suggesting that investment in scent compounds may be adjusted to bacterial load or bacterial community assemblage.lastly although bacteria are known to emit lmw organic volatiles 120d our chemical methods did not allow us to detect volatiles smaller than octanoic acid molecular mass 144 d. therefore future studies focusing on lmw volatiles in meerkat anal-pouch mixtures combined with in-vitro cultures of the specific bac- terial strains found in the mixtures and in-vivo experimental manipulations of bacterial communities will be required to determine to what extent bacteria produce the compounds used by meerkats to communicate with their conspecifics.materials and methodsstudy site and subjects.

whenever we observed differences between the sexes or social classes in either chemical composition or bacterial community we conducted similarity percentage analyses simper procedure in the vegan package in r to elucidate the contribution of specific chemical compounds or otus.

lastly we combine both sets of analyses to test for covariation between the chemical compounds and bacterial assemblages present in mixtures.

when comparing pure glandular secretions to mixtures obtained from the anal pouch of subordinate meerkats only we detected a total of 222 different chemical compounds in the 31 sam- ples of pure secretions and similarly a total of 218 compounds in the 24 samples of mixed secretions.

the chemical composition of lmw compounds in the 39 samples of anal-pouch mixtures obtained from dominant and subordinate meerkats varied with host sex f127  5.57 p 0.001 fig.

we did not detect any relationship between compound richness and sex social status orthe interaction between sex and social status data not shown.in addition to the sex differences described above we found evidence of group scent 'signatures' individ- uals from the same group were more similar in the chemical composition of their anal-pouch mixtures than were individuals from different groups jaccard distances f1027 1.32 p  0.040 fig.

