There is a noticeable trend albeit not always significant in elevated plasma concentrations of group 1 compared with group 2 significant p  0.05 group 3 compared with group 4 not significant p  0.05 and group 5 compared with group 6 not significant p  0.05.

Indeed groups 5 and 6 showed the lowest plasma concentrations for SDZ and TRIM after the first administration because the animals consumed the medicated feed over a few hours and the feed led to slower uptake of the active compounds .Comparing the different AUC0-108 values representing a 5-day treatment period for SDZ-TRIM plasma concentrations it is clear that doubling of the dose 15 mg APIkg BW vs. 30 mg APIkg BW in groups 1-2 3-4 and 5-6 also led to elevated plasma concen- trations within groups with the same administration route.

This also confirms the observations after anal- ysis of the intestinal contents where TRIM was not quantifiable in the distal segments namely the colon and rectum.ConclusionsThis study is the first to report intestinal concentrations of SDZ-TRIM in the different gut segments after a 5-day therapy with different dosages and administration routes in pigs thus also assessing the exposure of the gut microbiota to these compounds.The study confirmed the excellent oral bioavailability of both drugs when comparing PO gavage administrations with IM admin- istrations as plasma concentrations were of a similar order for both administration routes.

Surprisingly there is no significant difference between SDZ concentrations in manure after administration via PO gavage group 2 medicated feed group 6 or the IM route group 3.

Hence gut exposure is comparable among the different routes of administration for SDZ.It was also observed that TRIM could not be quantified in the manure concentrations of TRIM in all the faecal samples were below the LOQ of 0.025 mgg.

A similar bioavailability of SDZ and TRIM after PO or IM application is assumed.Intestinal concentrationsAn overview of the average intestinal concentrations of SDZ- TRIM in each GIT segment is given for every group in daily dosage 30 mg APIkg BW and daily dosage 15 mg APIkg BW.

Comparing groups 1 4 and 5 which received the higher dosage group 1 showed significantly higher SDZ manure concentrations after oral gavage com- pared with group 4 after IM p  0.012 and group 5 after medicated feed p  0.004 however no statistically significant differences wereFig.

For TRIM there will be much less exposure of the microbiota to the parent compound.Table 4Overview of the multiple dosing parameters for sulfadiazine SDZ in the faeces with the area under the curve from time 0 to 108 h AUC0-108 five-day treatment period the AUC0-108 divided by the administered dose AUC0-108D values the steady state manure concentrations Css and the maximal and minimal manure concentrations Cmax and Cmin.

This was further con- firmed after assessment of the faecal concentrations of TRIM which were below the LOQ in most of the samples.This experiment led to new insights into the intestinal concentra- tions of SDZ-TRIM after different treatment strategies dosages and administration routes in pigs.

However for the groups receiving the higher dose the average AUC0-108 value of group 1 PO gavage was significantly higher p  0.05 compared with group 4 IM and group 5 feed.

