no differences between patients with cisms and controls were observed in the proximal colon figure 2 a and b. patients with cis ms had significantly fewer overall dcs and cd1031 dcs in the distal colon compared with controls total dcs 3.0 2.2-3.8 vs 5.0 3.6-6.3 p 5 0.019 of living cells and 255 93-381 vs 404 335-592 p 5 0.026 absolute numbers cd1031 dcs 1.4 0.9-1.8 vs 2.5 1.4-3.1 p 5 0.036  of living cells and 114 38-174 vs 183 124-303 p 5 0.048absolute numbers figure 2 c and d.furthermore significant reductions of tregs in patients with cisms were likewise only observed in the distal colon tregs 3.1 1.3-3.7 vs 4.73.4-6.1 p 5 0.032  of living cells and 15383-205 vs 226 136-510 p 5 0.023 absolutenumbers figure 3 a-d. levels of cd41 cd81 t cells figure e-1 a-d at and natural killer cells figure e-2 a-d did not differ between patients with cisms and controls.as we observed a significant age difference between patients with cisms and controls we calculated the cor- relations between age and total dcs cd1031 dcs and tregs.

moreover scfas endow dcs with an enhanced ability to induce the differentiation of tregs.182021 recently oral propionate administration also resulted in expanded peripheral treg counts in patients with ms.22 on the basis of these data we hypothesized that corresponding changes in immune cells of the gut mucosa and in scfas should also be present in patients with ms. we speculated to find lower numbers of dcs in particular cd1031 dcs in the colon mucosa of patients with ms which might be associated with fewer tregs.

mucosal immune cells were analyzed by facs and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry measurements of stool samples served to determine scfa.results the number of total dendritic cells dcs cd1031 tolerogenic dcs and cd41251127- regulatory t cells tregs was significantly reduced in the distal colon of patients with cisms compared with controls whereas we found no differences in the proximal colon.

complete dissociationabbreviations ctrl 5 control patients edss 5 expanded disability status scale ms-p 5patients with ms na 5 not applicable ns 5 not significant.a the ms-p cohort consisted of 10 patients with clinically isolated syndromes and 5 patients with relapsing-remitting ms.b fisher exact test.c mann-whitney u test.was verified by visual inspection.

adrian mathias moser mdwalter spindelboeck mdheimo strohmaier phd christian enzinger md thomas gattringer md siegrid fuchs md franz fazekas md gregor gorkiewicz md philipp wurm msc christoph hogenauermdmichael khalil md phdcorrespondence to prof. hogenauer or prof. khalil supplemental dataabstractobjective to investigate immune cells of the colonic mucosa and fecal short-chain fatty acids scfas in treatment-naive patients with a clinically isolated syndrome cis or early relapsing ms.methods in this cross-sectional proof-of-concept study we obtained mucosal specimens during ileocolonoscopy from 15 untreated patients with cisms and 10 controls.

these observations were hitherto not made in humans and could suggest a concept where changes of mucosal immune cells may be linked to reduced levels of certain bacterial metabo- lites in the colon of patients with ms. propionate has been shown to be the most potent treg inducer in vitro and oral gavage ameliorated cns demyelin- ation in mice.19 propionate levels were lower in our patients with ms although not to a significant extent.

thereby activation of cd1031 dcs in cervical lymph nodes played a major role in attenu- ating cns autoimmunity.16 of interest a recent report provides evidence for the cns lymphatic system communicating with deep cervical lymph nodes.37 because the lymphatic system is known to communicate throughout the whole body informa- tion from the intestinal lymphatic system may also reach the cns.3738 in this context t cells have already been shown to gain autoreactive function in extracerebral tissues such as the lungs and to migrate to the cns transgressing the blood-brain barrier.39 the concept of extracerebral immune-cell alterations at mucosal sites may therefore be supported by our data and warrants further mechanistic investigation regarding the gut in patients with ms.in this study we solely focused on patients with early ms and therefore we do not know if observedchanges in the colonic mucosa may further increase with more advanced disease which needs to be acknowledged as a limitation of the study.

defective differen- tiation of regulatory foxp31 t cells by small-intestinal dendritic cells in patients with type 1 diabetes.

the patients' fecal samples also showed a substantially lower content of scfa and especially lower levels of butyrate and acetate.conclusions our findings indicate a disturbed homeostasis of colonic dcs and tregs in patients with ms which could be associated with colonic scfa depletion.

to minimize confounding in- fluences we focused on patients without disease-modifying treatment in the early stage of ms.methods patients and controls.

propionate and valerate were also reduced in patients with cisms but this difference did not reach statistical significance figure 4. the order of absolute abundances of single scfas was similar in patients with cisms and con- trols acetate .

ms-p 5 patients with ms treg 5 regula- tory t cells.discussion this study demonstrates changes in the immune constitution of the intestinal mucosa of untreated patients with early ms when compared with control biopsies.

hplc 5 high-performance liquid chromatography ms-p 5 patients with ms scfa 5 short-chain fatty acid.based on our data one may hypothesize that lower scfa content especially acetate and butyrate together with a reduced number of total and tolero- genic dcs may trigger a quantitative impairment of tregs in the distal colon of patients with ms. these alterations are also likely to impact on a systemic level as changes in the lymphatic immune system in mice could be observed after manipulation of the intestinal ecosystem.

the exclusion criteria were identical to those of the patients with cis ms. none of the controls had signs of an acute illness or received any long-term medication.ileocolonoscopy and isolation of lp mononuclear cells.

of interest food patterns compatible with western lifestyle have been proposed to increase the incidence of ms and fecal microbiota disturban- ces have been reported to occur in patients with ms compared with healthy controls.32-34 in turn adher- ence to a mediterranean diet elevated butyrate ace- tate and propionate levels in healthy individuals.35 thus dietary factors may promote dysregulation of mucosal immune cells through an altered intestinal microenvironment.

