fur- thermore there are also few studies on bactrocera microbiomes based on next-generation sequencing    .high diversity of bacterial communities in developmental stages1077the present study was carried out to determine 1 the diversity and relative abundance of bacterial otus in developmental stages of b. carambolae and 2 whether bacterial otus were transmitted from immature stage to the adult stage.

curr microbiol 2017 741076-1082 doi 10.1007s00284-017-1287-xhigh diversity of bacterial communities in developmental stages of bactrocera carambolae insecta tephritidae revealedby illumina miseq sequencing of 16s rrna genehoi-sen yong1  sze-looi song2  kah-ooi chua1  phaik-eem lim2received 29 march 2017  accepted 20 june 2017  published online 23 june 2017c springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstract bactrocera carambolae is a highly polyphagous fruit pest of agricultural importance.

members of enterobacteriaceae have been shown to playhigh diversity of bacterial communities in developmental stages1081table 2 bacterial diversity insamplechao 1observed otusshannon index hgood's coveragedevelopmental stages of bactrocera carambolae revealed by ngs 16s rrna genebcl1 larva1745070863.720.99very important roles in courtship and reproduction of fruit flies .at the generic level comamonas which was reported to be most abundant in pupae and completely absent in adults of b. dorsalis from china  is present in all the devel- opmental stages of b. carambolae with low relative abundance and more abundant in the pupal stage sup- plementary table s6.

erwinia was more abundant in the larval stage halomonas more abundant in adult female stenotrophomonas more abun- dant in adult male and chryseobacterium more abundant in the larval and pupal stages.high diversity of bacterial communities in developmental stages1079table 1 relative abundance mean - sd and range in parenthesis of the bacterial phyla in the developmental stages with c1 in at least one specimen and exuviae of bactrocera carambolae fruit flies determined by 16s rrna next-generation sequencingn indicates number of replicatesfig.

4 comparison of bacterial genera diversity in developmental stages of bactrocera carambolae by principal coordinate analysis pcoa based on bray-curtis dissimilarities indexthe present finding of proteobacteria as the predomi- nant phylum in the newly emerged adults as well as the larval and pupal stages of b. carambolae agrees with our earlier study on field-caught adult male b. carambolae andb.

3 frequency distribution of bacterial genera in developmental stages of bactrocera carambolae dendrogram showing the relationship of bacterial groups associated with different life stagesfig.

2 relative abundance  of bacterial phyla in samples of bactrocera carambolae developmental stages and exuviae others acidobacteria armatimonadetes chloroflexi cyanobacteria fbp fusobacteria gemmatimonadetes nitrospirae od1 planctomycetes sar406 synergistetes tm7 verrucomicrobia and thermithere were 16 putative bacterial species with c1 in at least one specimen actinobacteria--4 species bac- teroidetes--10 species and firmicutes--2 species sup- plementary table s7.

the results indicate transmission of bacteria otus from immatures to the newly emerged adults and from exuviae to the environment.introductionthe carambola fruit fly bactrocera carambolae a highly polyphagous fruit pest is one of 73 bactrocera species that is economically important in the pacific region .

the differences in the bacterial communities between developmental stages of b. carambolae indicate individual variation and some bacterial otus were not transmitted from the immature to the newly emerged adult flies.

the dominant genera c10 mean relative abundance in the present b. carambolae are chryseobacterium in immature stages halomonas in larva and adult female pseudomonas in pupa and steno- trophomonas in larva and adult male supplementary table s6.as reported for b. dorsalis from china  the type and abundance of different bacterial groups varied across the life stages of b. carambolae.

meta gene 11189-196yong h-s song s-l lim p-e eamsobhana p suana iw 2016 complete mitochondrial genome of three bactrocera fruit flies of subgenus bactrocera diptera tephritidae and their phyloge- neticiimplications.

this study reports the bacterial communities associated with the developmental stages of b. carambolae.

no putative species were identified from the phylum proteobacteria.bacterial diversityin general the bacterial diversity of the samples within developmental stages of b. carambolae was not closely related to each other figs.

the bacterial composition varied among the specimens of developmental stage and across developmental stages as well as exuviae.

indeed studies are lacking on the microbiota associated with developmental stages of bactrocera fruit flies.

