cells were first treated at time 0 with the s. anulatus s37 at 106 cfu ml-1 or with the b. cinerea at 105 spores ml-1 washed at 50 100 and 150 min with a fresh medium and then treated at 150 min a second time with the s. anulatus s37 or the b. cinerea at the same concentrations.in-gel protein kinase assayin vivo experiments followed by in-gel kinase assays were performed as previously described   using myelin basic protein mbp as a map kinase substrate at the final concentration of 0.2 mg ml-1.detection of cell deaththe cell death was visualized by the fda fluorescein diacetate sigma-aldrich staining.

anulatus s37 induces early events in grapevine cellsour results showed that s. anulatus s37 triggers the oxidative burst one of the key events in grapevine cell signaling.

when grapevine cells were inoculated with s37 b. cinerea a high burst of h2o2 was observed which was almost seven-fold superior at 20 min as compared to s37 or b. cinerea separately.

the treatment of grapevine cells with s. anulatus s37 b. cinerea and s37 b. cinerea activated rapidly and transiently both 45 and 49 kd map kinases .

however in the presence of b. cinerea the percentage of cells with caspase activity increased significantly compared to the previous two terms 9.90. when grapevine cells were previously inoculated with s37 before their infection with b. cinerea this activity decreased significantly 2.55.expression of defense-related genesexpression profiles of number defense-related genes were analyzed by qrt-pcr in grapevine cells suspension aftertheir inoculation with s. anulatus s37 andor b. cinerea.

with s37 b. cinerea the production of resveratrol and piceid showed similar levels than with s37 while d-viniferin accumulation was primed.refractory stateone of the characteristics of cells is the occurrence of the refractory state which often occurs after the perception of mampspamps at high-affinity protein receptors in the plasma membrane.

grape cells pretreated with the s37 were shown to be refractory to the second application of s37.

similarly cells pretreated with b. cinerea were shown to be refractory to the second application of b. cinerea while they were not refractory to an application of s37 .discussionthe streptomyces anulatus s37 has been demonstrated as a protector of the grapevine against b. cinerea   but molecular mechanisms involved in this interactionremains unknown.

anulatus s37 induces thedefense-related genes expression and phytoalexin accumulationthe treatment with s37 induced the upregulation of genes that are responsive to b. cinerea   mamps    and beneficial bacteria  .

since in this study s37 or b. cinerea do not produce h2o2 data not shown we might suggest that s37 primes the oxidative burst in grapevine cells as evident by the enhanced accumulation of h2o2 after pathogen challenge.

we demonstrated that s. anulatus s37 induced early responses including oxidative burst extracellular alkalinization activation of protein kinases induction of defense gene expression and phytoalexin accumulation but not the programmed cell death.

interestingly upon challenge with the b. cinerea the s. anulatus s37 primed grapevine cells for enhanced defense reactions with a decline in cell death.

anulatus s37 was perceived by grapevine cells by triggering early and late responses including oxidative burst extracellular alkalinization activation of protein kinases induction of defense genes expression and phytoalexin accumulation but not the programmed cell death.

further upon challenge with b. cinerea the s. anulatus s37 primed grapevine cells to enhanced defense reactions and reduced the pathogen-induced cell death.

grapevine cells were then used to analyze the extracellular ph the h2o2 production the map kinase assay the cell death the defense-related gene expression and the phytoalexin production after a treatment with the s. anulatus s37 andor the b. cinerea.control cells were incubated under the same conditions without treatment.

