Graft-ver- sus-leukemia GVL effects which are derived from the activation of donor T cells that recognize the allo-antigens expressed by the recipient's tumor cells contribute to the eradication of malignant host cells 5.

SNP idrs6531656TLR7DeficientGVHD severity  translocating bacteria  in TLR23479- in HoxB8neutrophilsDonor human44Both human44Recipient mouse31AgonistLocalized GVHD   infiltration of donor T cells Recipient mouse39TLR8SNP genotypingNo effect on the incidence of acute GVHD by polymorphisms of the TLR8Donor human45TLR9DeficientGVHD severity  translocating bacteria  in TLR23479- in HoxB8neutrophilsRecipient mouse31DeficientIntestinal GVHD severity  dependent on MyD88 signaling survival rates Recipient mouse11AgonistGVHD severity Recipient mouse11DeficientGVHD severity  apoptotic cells  proliferation of cells in colon Recipient mouse44SNP genotypingAssociated with the risk of acute GVHD by TLR9 SNPs in the donors of allogeneic HSCTTLR10SNP genotypingSNP in the TLR10 showed significant association with acute GVHDe.g.

In combination with damages caused by donor-derived T cells such damage disrupts the epithelial barrier and exposes innate immune cells to pathogenic and commensal intestinal bacteria which release ligands for Toll-like receptors TLRs.

However donor T cells are also reactive to allo-antigens expressed by the re- cipient's tissues and parenchymal cells in the gastrointes- tinal GI tract liver lung and skin and induce graft-ver- sus-host disease GVHD a life-threatening complication of allo-HSCT 67.

The release of inflammatory cytokines activates antigen-presenting cells APCs which promote the activation and effector differentiation of allo-reactive donor T cells.

Activated of T cells mediate cytotoxicity against allo-antigen- bearing recipient cells in damaged tissues which increase inflammation in the target organs Fig.

This innate cell stimulation by microbial antigens enhances the recruit- ment of activated T cells to the intestines where they kill GI epithelial cells and cause cryptic cell degeneration resulting in heightened intestinal inflammation and nutri- ent malabsorption.

In MyD88-deficient recipient mice the infiltration of donor T cells into the intestines and the apoptosis of colon cells were reduced resulting in improved survival and clinical scoring for acute intesti-Table II.

The exacerbation of intestinal GVHD in recipients of MyD88-deficient BM cells was associated with insufficient expansion of MD- SCs from the transplanted MyD88-deficient stem cells.

The schistosome oligosaccharide lacto-N- neotetraose expands Gr1 cells that secrete anti-inflamma- tory cytokines and inhibit proliferation of naive CD4 cells a potential mechanism for immune polarization in helminth infections.

