to investigate the nature of the b. braunii microbial consortium and to discover which taxonomic units spe- ciesgenera are present in close association with the alga we used a combination of metagenomic analysis and identification of cultured isolates to investigate the bacterial species present in a laboratory culture of b. braunii strain guadeloupe race b metzger david  casadevall 1986.to drastically perturb the microbiota present in the b. braunii cul- ture and identify bacteria that may be more closely associated withb.

the b. braunii consortium is not sensitive to antibiotics that in- hibit peptidoglycan synthesis whereas antibiotics that inhibit protein synthesis had a significant effect on the b. braunii consortium strep- tomycin kanamycin and paromomycin prevented growth of b. brau- nii resulting in decomposition of the algae rifampicin erythromycin gentamycin and chloramphenicol reduce growth rate relative to the untreated culture without killing the algae.the culturable bacteria species likely to be from the genera variovorax achromobacter and flavobacterium were resistant to ci- profloxacin 10 mg ml-1 whereas the agrobacterium sp.

this analysis confirms the presence of these or very closely related species in the microbiome.the evidence from the combined high stringency analysis per- formed in this investigation indicated that the initial b. braunii cul- ture condition a contained a population of species from the orders lactobacillales enterobacteriales pseudomonadales flavobacteriales clostridiales and one species in the burkholderiales order ralstoniarootcondition a condition b condition ccellular organismseukaryotavirusesnot assignedno hitsbacteriaopisthokontarhodophytaviridiplantaefungimetazoarelative to other rhizobia and this has been reflected in the growth after washing and ciprofloxacin treatment.

stars represent species that were identified using both standard and high stringency analysistable 1 identification of culturable bacteria in the b. braunii consortiamost closely related species were identified by blastn of the 16s rdna sequences from two independent clones with nucleotide identity of 99. top hits of species clone id and strain showing the highest similarity according to blastn with e-value percentage identity and ncbi accession number.

while the association with microorganisms is not essential for hydro- carbon production in b. braunii the addition of single bacterial species to previously axenic b. braunii culture increased algal biomass and hy- drocarbon yields chirac et al.

2007. to investigate further the nature of the b. braunii microbial consor- tium we profiled the microbiota of an established laboratory culture of b. braunii under different conditions using high throughput illumina sequencing of metagenomic samples.2  results and discussion  modification of botryococcus braunii culture conditionsunderstanding the structure of algal-bacterial interactions using metagenomics offers the potential to ensure more robust culturesand exploit for industrial or nutritional use a wider variety of species than currently deployed.

as part of this investigation the high stringency and standard strin- gency analyses shared 19 identified species that may be presentor similar to species which are present in the b. braunii consortium15achromobacter piechaudii acidovorax citrulli asticcacaulis excentricus bordetella petrii bradyrhizobium japonicum citrobacter koseri delftiafigure 1 response of the botryococcus braunii guadeloupe consortium to antibiotics.

the flavobacterium failed to grow on fresh and spent mcv suggesting that this strain requires another factor provided by the consortium to sustain growth.some bacterial species were unable to grow in mcv medium but were able to grow in filtered medium after b. braunii culture unidentified species gg1 achromobacter sp.

after excluding low quality sequence reads this anal- ysis generated in excess of 11 million sequence reads per culture namely 11313866 reads for condition a 15510317 reads for con- dition b and 11702497 reads for condition c. the metagenomic con- tent of the three conditions were analyzed using two bioinformatic approaches 1. similarity to nucleotide and protein databases using blast and 2. validation by sequence read alignment to genomes of inferred species identified using blast in step 1.abc1.51.00.50.0-0.5-1.0-1.52.52.01.51.00.50.0antibiotic treatments0510time days  taxonomic assignment of metagenomic dna using blast and meganto assess the range of bacteria at species level in all culture condi- tions blast analysis was used to infer bacterial species present in the three experimental culture conditions.

the size of the circle is scaled logarithmically to the number of reads supporting the taxon theproportion of the wedge indicates the numbers of reads from each culture condition a red b blue and c greenpickettii table s1 figure 4. these microorganisms were removed by washing condition b and failed to re-colonize the culture when ciprofloxacin was present condition c. species from the orders cytophagales caulobacterales rhizobiales xanthomonadales and burkholderiales except r. pickettii were not removed from the cul- ture by washing condition b suggesting that these species are very closely associated with or attached to the algal colonies table s1 figure 4.aside from two species bradyrhizobium japonicum and bradyrhizobium sp.

co-cultivation of b. japonicum has been shown to enhance the growth of chlamydomonas reinhardtii wu li yu  wang 2012.  validation of bioinformatics approaches by 16s rdna sequencing of bacterial isolatesfollowing repeated streak-culture on solid lb or mcv media 10 bac- terial strains with different colony characteristics morphology growth rate medium preference were isolated from the b. braunii consor- tium grown under condition a. the genera of seven distinct bacte- rial strains were identified by 16s rdna homology marchesi et al.

in order to culture b. braunii cost effectively at scale understanding the composition of the community is essential.our results indicate that sequences attributed to the co-cultured bacterial community were dramatically altered by the perturbations to the b. braunii culture.

further work in this area is required to determine which species in the consortium are beneficial and which are detrimental to b. braunii.

rhizobium species have been implicated as a probiotic in cultures of b. braunii rivas et al.

agrew in fresh algal mcv media.bgrew in spent but not fresh mcv media.effects depend on culture conditions the b. braunii isolate and the microbial species involved chirac et al.

