05 2005 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 cbe crystal bog epilimnia cbh crystal bog hypolimnia fbe forestry bog epilimnia fbh forestry bog hypolimnia wse west sparkling bog epilimnia wsh west sparkling bog hypolimnia nse north sparkling bog epilimnia nsh north sparkling bog hypolimnia tbe trout bog epilimnia tbh trout bog hypolimnia sse south sparkling bog epilimnia ssh south sparkling bog hypolimnia hke hell's kitchen epilimnia hkh hell's kitchen hypolimnia mae mary lake epilimnia mah mary lake hypolimnia.we performed the same core analysis after combining otus assigned to the same tribe previously defined as sharing 97 nucleotide identity in the nearly full-length 16s rrna gene and according to phylogenetic branch structure  into new groups.

our primary goals for this data set were to census members of the bog lake bacterial community and to identify taxa that are core to the bacterial community of bog lake ecosystems.

two of the goals of this study were to determine the core bacterial community of bog lakes in general and to determine if the mixing regime affects core community membership.

differ- ences between crystal bog trout bog and mary lake three sites representative of the three mixing regime categories corresponding to polymictic dimictic and meromictic conditions in richness and community membership within 1 year were previously detected .

we hypothesized that the mixing regime structures the bacterial community leading to an association between mixing frequency and alpha and beta diversity in bog lakes.

our data supported these results and suggest that these trends are indeed linked with mixing regime as we included multiple lakes of each type sampled over multiple years in this study.our results support previous research on the characteristics of bacterial communi- ties in the epilimnion and hypolimnion and the association of lake mixing frequency with community composition.

these well-defined freshwater groups showed similar levels of persistence variance and abundance in every lake including crystal bog a trout bog b south sparkling bog c and mary lake d despite differing abundance patterns.

a to c principal-coordinate analysis using weighted unifrac as the distance metric was used to measure the amount of interannual variation in the three lake hypolimnia with the longest time series trout bog a south sparkling bog b and mary lake c. additional ordinations of lake epilimnia are provided as supplemental figures fig.

we hypothesized that water column mixing is a disturbance to bog lake bacterial communities and that lakes with intermediate mixing frequency would have the highest levels of biodiversity.

this data set includes data from two fall mixing events trout bog 2007 and north sparkling bog 2008 as well as from the artificial mixing event in north sparkling bog in 2008 .

research articleecological and evolutionary sciencebacterial community composition and dynamics spanning five years in freshwater bog lakesa benjamin c. crarya ashley shadeb sarah owensc jack a. gilbertcde rob knightfgh katherine d. mcmahonaidepartment of bacteriology university of wisconsin--madison madison wisconsin usaa department of microbiology and molecular genetics michigan state university east lansing michigan usab biosciences division argonne national laboratory argonne illinois usac computation institute university of chicago chicago illinois usad department of ecology and evolution department of surgery university of chicago chicago illinois usae center for microbiome innovation jacobs school of engineering university of california san diego la jolla california usaf department of pediatrics university of california san diego school of medicine la jolla california usag department of computer science and engineering jacobs school of engineering university of california san diego la jolla california usah department of civil and environmental engineering university of wisconsin--madison madison wisconsin usaiabstract bacteria play a key role in freshwater biogeochemical cycling but long- term trends in freshwater bacterial community composition and dynamics are not yet well characterized.

this shows that the amounts of variability in the bacterial community differ by site as well as by year.the core community of bog lakes.

successional trends were studied in crystal bog and lake mendota with a relatively small number of samples collected over 2 years and dramatic changes in community composition associated with drops in biodiversity during the summer months were described while spring winter and fall had more stable community composition .

the results of our analysis emphasize the importance of long- term multisite observations as analyzing only a single year of data or one lake would not have allowed us to describe the dynamics and composition of these freshwater bacterial communities to the extent presented here.importance lakes are excellent systems for investigating bacterial community dy- namics because they have clear boundaries and strong environmental gradients.

each lake and layer contained a distinct bacterial community with distinct levels of richness and indica- tor taxa that likely reflected the environmental conditions of each lake type sam- pled including actinobacteria in polymictic lakes i.e.

