in fact qr e. coli were detected frequently in the blood isolates after quinolone prophylaxis in the highly endemic area of these bacteria.1718 the detection rates of esbl-producing e. coli most of which are resistant to quinolones vary across the world.19 the prevalence of esbl-producing e. coli has been increasing in japan not only in the hospitals but also in the community.2021 therefore the emergence of qr e. coli after quinolone prophylaxis may be found more frequently in the other regions of japan than in our region.based on the above-mentioned consideration the emer-gence of qr enterococci after prophylaxis may be also due to the enrichment of the qr enterococcus subpopulation already present in the initial gut flora.

of the patients receiving multiple prophylactic courses six had qr escherichia coli including extended-spectrum b-lactamase esbl producers at the first course and four 66.3 of the six patients had persistent detec- tion of qr e. coli at the second course.conclusion in patients receiving multiple courses of prophylactic quinolone along with a common chemotherapy schedule newly emergent resistant bacteria could be frequently per- sistent in their fecal flora.keywords febrile neutropenia prophylaxis fluoroquinolone antibiotic resistance fecal flora chemotherapyintroductionfebrile neutropenia is one of the most serious adverse events in patients with hemato- logical malignancies and chemotherapy.1 bacteremia related to febrile neutropenia often increases infection-related morbidity and mortality.

for permission for commercial use of this work please see paragraphs 4.2 and 5 of our terms vepresswhom chemotherapy-induced neutropenia is expected to last for 7 days.5 however the emergence of bacterial resistance to antibiotics especially quinolones has become a critical concern and routine prophylactic use has been repeatedly questioned to date.6-10in our previous study we prospectively examined the incidence of quinolone-resistant qr escherichia coli isolates recovered from stool cultures before and after levofloxacin prophylaxis in 68 neutropenic patients with hematological malignancies and analyzed the emergence of qr e. coli before and after prophylaxis.11 patients with hematological malignancies usually receive repeated che- motherapy and accordingly repeated quinolone prophylaxis for their neutropenia in many cases.

de lastours et al demonstrated that quinolone exposure didnot induce resistant mutations on the quinolone-resistance- determining region qrdr genes eg gyra or parc of the same e. coli clones.13 the researchers have presumed the two following possibilities based on this result first the newly emergent qr e. coli strains after quinolone exposure were present at undetectable levels and second the exogenous acquisition of qr e. coli strains occurred.

thus in any case the most relevant factor for the detection of qr e. coli includ- ing esbl-producing e. coli seems to be the level of the endemic spread of qr e. coli.

of the seven patients six had qr e. coli including qr esbl-producing e. coli before andor after the first prophylaxis.

3 4 14 15 16 and17 20 21 and 37 38 had a persistent detection of qr e. coli before andor after the second prophylaxis 46 patients 66.3. in addition three of the four patients had qr esbl-producinge.

37 qr esbl-producing e. coli isolated before the first prophylaxis were not detected after the first prophylaxis followed by reemergence before the second prophylaxis.discussionin the previous study11 we concluded that quinolone prophy- laxis did not significantly increase qr e. coli while in the current study a significant increase in quinolone resistance was observed.

it has been reported by metagenome analysis that the composition of human gut microbiota may not completely recover even after 6 months from the initial quinolone exposure.14in the previous report of this study we showed the most frequency of 5 in the emergence of qr e. coli after quino- lone prophylaxis.11 in contrast in the studies conducted by european institutes the detection rates of qr e. coli after quinolone prophylaxis were 30.1516 quinolone exposure in healthy volunteers also showed the new emergence of qre.

in our study the footprint of qr e. coli strains at an individual level showed repeated appearance and disappearance in the same gut flora table 3. this finding suggests that qr e. coli strains always compete with other bacterial strains in the gut environment resulting in that the acquisition or loss of dominance in the flora is repeated.

in fact the detection frequency significantly decreased when collected after 31 days from the final antimicrobial exposure 1620 samples vs 420 samples p0.0004.table 3 shows the detection history of qr enterobac- teriaceae strains at an individual level in seven patients receiving quinolone prophylaxis of cycle 2. all the qr enterobacteriaceae strains were e. coli.

in de lastours et al's study13 quinolones were administered to healthy volunteerstable 3 detection history of fluoroquinolone-resistant andor esbl-producing e. coli in the fecal samples from patients with repeatedquinolone prophylaxis.note aesbl ec strains were all resistant to quinolone.abbreviations esbl extended-spectrum b-lactamase ec escherichia coli qr quinolone-resistant qs quinolone-susceptible esbl ec esbl-producing ec.without chemotherapy.

we focused on the decrease of qs enterobacteriaceae and the dominant emergence of qr coagulase negative staphylococci cns and qr enterococcus qr cns and enterococcus species as a characteristic of the change of bacterial com- position in feces before and after quinolone exposure.

thus the spread of resistant bacteria particularly qr e. coli including esbl-producers and qr enterococci including vre as a local factor may influence strategies toward the use of quinolone prophylaxis.

although this appears to be contradictory and confusing this is due to the evaluation of only e. coli in the previous study as compared to that of all detected bacteria including cns and enterococci in the current study.the recovery of qs enterobacteriaceae was seen in70 of patients with more than two courses of quinolone prophylaxis table 1. in the recent report of de lastours et al13 it has been found that 70.8 3448 cases of the cases exhibited reemergence of qs e. coli in the fecal flora after 28 days from final quinolone exposure.

