The domi- nance of certain species after daily CD correlated with high planktonic growth rates at 12degC and tolerance to CD.

The phe- nomenon was replicated in laboratory experiments.

The present investigation highlights the failure of regular CD and a need for research on improved agents that efficiently detach the biofilm matrix.KEYWORDS Listeria monocytogenes conveyor belt biofilm cleaning disinfectionSeptember 2017 Volume 83 Issue 17 e01046-17Applied and Environmental Microbiology 1ood production premises are regularly subjected to cleaning and disinfection CD regimes designed to reduce bacterial load and eliminate pathogens.

The use of chemical disinfectants in food processing environments is usually based on their efficacy in tests performed with planktonic bacteria .

The formation of biofilms is important for microbial survival in the food industry and cells in biofilms typically exhibit increased tolerance toward antimicrobial agents compared with that of their planktonic counterparts  .

The transfer of L. monocytogenes from food contact surfaces such as conveyor belts to processed food products has been documented and in some cases shown to result in outbreaks of listeriosis  .Certain strains of L. monocytogenes can establish in the production environment and persist for months or even years especially in humid areas and areas where CD is difficult.

The growth of L. monocytogenes in dual-species biofilms with representative strains from food production environments has for instance resulted in both enhanced and reduced cell numbers of L. monocytogenes .

The purpose of this study was to examine the biofilm formation and survival of strains belonging to bacterial genera commonly isolated from conveyor belts in meat processing environments under conditions simulating those encountered in these environments.

The development of the biofilm microbiota was investigated using viability counting amplicon sequencing and imaging tech- niques.RESULTSIdentification of microbiota on conveyor belts in meat processing plants.

The biofilms were allowed to develop for 4 days and were subsequently subjected to CD on days 4 to 7 using a chlorinated alkaline cleaning agent Alkalifoam and disinfection with either a QAC- or PAA-based disinfectant at concentrations recommended by the manufacturers.

