although this study is focused on a specific coral reef fish family the chaetodontidae these results cast light on the bacterial communities of fish gills bringing new insights on the possible relationship between fish microbiota fish ecology and the surrounding natural environment.supplementary datasupplementary data are available at online.acknowledgementsthe authors would like to acknowledge christine sidobre for her assistance in dna extraction and sonja fagervold for her sug- gestions for the manuscript.fundingthis work was supported by the labex corail project mecano to pierre sasal.

chemotaxis of vibrio anguillarum to fish mucus role of the origin of the fish mucus the fish species and the serogroup of the pathogen.

rhodobacteraceae were present in all fish species but were particularly abundant inc. vagabundus where they reached abundances up to 32. sim- ilarly 'exiguobacteraceae' mainly the exiguobacterium genus were significantly more abundant in c. vagabundus p  0.05 dis- playing abundances lower than 1 in the other fish species.

recent stud- ies also show that bacteria isolated from fish gut and skin dis- play antibacterial and antifungal activities against human and fish pathogens suggesting a protective role of fish native micro- biota against pathogens sanchez et al.

fi- nally fusobacteriaceae genus undetermined were significantly more abundant in in c. lunulatus 0.4-7.1 p  0.05 while they were nearly absent in the other three fish species.discussiongills are organs essential to fish well-being and their associated microbiota play an essential role in gill functioning and thus information on the bacterial communities of gills is of great importance to understanding gill homeostasis and fish health lowrey et al.

the lowest bacterial diversity was ob- served in c. reticulatus which is a strict corallivore fish that feeds mostly on acropora corals harmelin-vivien  berumen and pratchett .although all fish species were collected at the same sampling site they presented significant microbiome differ- ences.

.actinobacteria and firmicutes which seem to constitute the fish core microbiota along with proteobacteria were abundant in gill mucus of all fish species especially in c. reticulatus andc.

although the role of fu- sobacteria and butyrate are poorly understood in fish external surfaces such as gills the previous studies might indicate that they could display protective roles in fish gills.in conclusion we found a high bacterial diversity in gill mu- cus of butterflyfishes many species of which are also found in the coral holobiont either as pathogens or coral-associated bacteria.

the bacterial families and genera with abundances higher than 5 in at least one of the samples were also identi- fied and significant differences between fish species were as- sessed using the kruskal-wallis test and kruskal post hoc test non-normal data.resultsdiversity of bacterial communitiesa total of 1940 otus were obtained from the gill mucus of four butterflyfish species c. lunulatus c. ornatissimus c. reticulatus and c. vagabundus.

6table 2. core microbiota otus and their classification of the four butterflyfish species c. lunulatus c. ornatissimus c. reticulatus andsquare brackets indicate that nomenclature requires to be updated.figure 1. venn diagram representing shared operational taxonomic units otus between fish species.

overall our re- sults show that gill mucus microbiota is somewhat host-specific but more studies should assess temporal and spatial variability of gill mucus microbiome to confirm the associations presented here.the bacterial communities associated to the gill mucus of the four butterflyfish species were dominated by proteobacteriawhich is in accordance with previous studies on the gill skin and gut of several fish species sullam et al.

a potential new species of neorickettsia has been identified as species specific from skin mi- crobiota of striped mullet mugil cephalus but their role and im- portance in fish microbiota and coral reefs remains unknown larsen et al.

.verrucomicrobia species which were abundant in c. lunula- tus and c. ornatissimus 1-15 mainly an akkermansia unidenti- fied species have been found in low abundances in different fish tissues gills gut and skin 1 and coral tissues 1-3 koop- erman et al.

we characterised the gill mucus bacterial communities of four butterflyfish species and although the bacterial diversity of gill mucus varied significantly between species shannon diversities were high h  3.7-5.7 in all species.

finally as mucus layers are nutrient hotspots for heterotrophic bacteria living in oligotrophic environments such as coral reef waters the high bacterial diversity found in butterflyfish gill mucus might indicate external fish mucus surfaces act as a reservoir of coral reef bacterial diversity.keywords gill mucus microbiota butterflyfish coral reef bacterial diversity chaetodon fish mucusintroductionthe associations between metazoans and commensal microor- ganisms are among the most ancient and successful in naturemcfall-ngai et al.

