the four most abundant phyla which contained in excess of 98 of the total sequences were proteobacteria 59.2 for gpv and 51.4 for gpu firmicutes 34.4 for gpv and 23.3 for gpu actinobacteria 5.2 for gpv and 14.0 for gpu and bacteroidetes 0.3 for gpv and 10.3 for gpu a. it is noteworthy that the greatest difference occurred between the two groups in relation to bacteroidete levels where the prevalence rate reached 10.3 in the gpu group while it remained at only 0.3 in the gpv group.

b phylum-level relative abundance in all the samples.table 2ten most prevalent genera in the gpv and gpu.a low vaginal ph which are important factors in ensuring healthy pregnancy outcomes.community analysisboth chao1 and ace species richness indices operating at the same sequencing depth for each sample showed that the gpv had more species richness than the gpu a. additionally simpson and shannon indices of diversity demonstrated that gpu had lower bacterial diversity which could also be proven by the observed species b. the average observed species of the gpv was 603 while it was only 496 in the gpu a comparative analysis of vaginal and uterine microbial community structures was undertaken by calculating the otu- based unweighted unifrac measures phylogeny-based analysis.

results showed that the four most abundant phyla which contained in excess of 98 of the total sequences were proteobacteria 59.2 for gpv and 51.4 for gpu firmicutes 34.4 for gpv and 23.3 for gpu actinobacteria 5.2 for gpv and 14.0 for gpu and bacteroidetes 0.3 for gpv and 10.3 for gpu.

the sequences were assigned to 1855 otus at 97 of the threshold level with 446 of those in existence found in all groups shared by the gpv and the gpu the shared otus comprised approximately 24 of the total otus while 1072 and 337 otus were uniquely identified in the gpv and the gpu groups respectively.in order to determine whether the observed otus adequately reflected the true number of otus we calculated the mean chao1 species richness a rarefaction curve and the good's coverage index the rarefaction curves reached saturation at 97 pairwise identity thresholds except in the case of gpv 2 indicating that most of the microbial diversity present in these samples had already been captured at the current sequencing depth b. nevertheless the average good's coverage was 99.4 indicating that the true number of otus was adequately represented.microbiota community structure of the giant pandaall sequences were categorised into 34 phyla across the entire sample.

the 10 most abundant genera contained more than 51 of the total sequences in the gpv and in excess of 76 of the total sequences in the gpu escherichia was the most abundant genus 11.0 in the gpv a. other identified gen- era in this group included leuconostoc 8.7 pseudomonas 8.0 acinetobacter 7.3 streptococcus 6.3 and lactococcus 6.0. however while janthinobacterium had the highest abundance in the gpu group 20.2 it only accounted for 0.03 in the gpv group.

janthinobacterium had the highest abundance in the gpu 20.2. the proportion of dominant genus in the gpu were large.

in order to investigate the vaginal and uterine bacterial diversity of healthy giant pandas we used high- throughput sequence analysis of portions of the 16s rrna gene based on samples taken from the vaginas gpv group and uteri gpu group of these animals.

therefore two types of giant panda samples were ana- lysed in this study namely vaginal gpv group and uterine gpu group.dna extraction pcr and hiseq sequencing systemfig.

microbiological research 199 2017 1-9the normal vaginal and uterine bacterial microbiome in giant pandas ailuropoda melanoleucaxin yangguangyang chengcaiwu lijiang yangjianan lidanyu chen wencheng zousenyan jinhemin zhangdesheng liyongguo hechengdong wangmin wanghongning wanga school of life science sichuan university animal disease prevention and food safety key laboratory of sichuan province key laboratory of bio-resources and eco-environment ministry of education chengdu sichuan 610064 chinab china conservation and research center for the giant panda wolong sichuan 623006 chinac wolong nature reserve administration of sicuan province wolong sichuan 623006 chinaa r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 20 august 2016 received in revised form 13 november 2016accepted 7 january 2017available online 16 january 2017keywords vaginal uterine bacterial microbiome giant pandaswhile the health effects of the colonization of the reproductive tracts of mammals by bacterial communi- ties are widely known there is a dearth of knowledge specifically in relation to giant panda microbiomes.

corresponding author.e-mail addresses h. zhang h. wang.1 xin yang guangyang cheng and caiwu li contributed equally to this study.perturbations in the microbiome of these organs may be implicated in genital tract infections or can even result in negative pregnancy outcomes  thus it is beneficial to gain a greater understanding of how both vaginal and uterine bacterial microbiome composition in various mammals may aid in the prevention of as well as the optimisa- tion of therapies in the treatment of genital tract infections and reproductive failure.it is only in the last decade that the bacterial community present in the vaginal or uterine cavities of various animal species for example the cat rabbit horse sea lion cow dog guinea pig and baboon have all been the subject of scientific interest  nava in addition a range of techniques have been employed to acquire this knowledge including conventional0944-5013c 2017 elsevier gmbh.

vaginal swab samples n  8 were collected from the anterior vaginal fornix of each giant panda using long sterile swabs equivet and kruuse veterinary products.

in the present study we initially characterised the vaginal and uterine bacterial diversity of healthy giant pandas by using 454 pyrosequencing technology in order to provide data forfuture etiological research on reproductive disorders in giant pan- das.proteobacteria and firmicutes phyla occupied the most promi- nent positions of all the vaginal samples taken in our study.

at the genus level escherichia was most abundant 11.0 in the gpv followed by leuconostoc 8.7 pseudomonas 8.0 acinetobacter 7.3 streptococ- cus 6.3 and lactococcus 6.0. in relation to the uterine samples janthinobacterium had the highest prevalence rate 20.2 followed by corynebacterium 13.2 streptococcus 19.6 psychrobacter 9.3 escherichia 7.5 and bacteroides 6.2. moreover both chao1 and abundance-based coverage estima- tor ace species richness indices which were operating at the same sequencing depth for each sample demonstrated that gpv had more species richness than gpu while simpson and shannon indices of diversity indicated that gpv had the higher bacterial diversity.

b a venn diagram was generated to describe the common and unique otus in gpu.

moreover two phyla namely chlamydiae and synergistetes were observed in the gpv group only while none was found to occur in the gpu group.

