this study showed that zinc bacitracin-induced increase in microbiota diversity was associated with reductions in the abundance of the lactobacillus genus the most dominant taxa in trial 1. our results suggest that a lower abundance of the highly dominant genus lactobacillus could have promoted the growth of other less-dominant taxa increasing the diver- sity and shifting the composition of the gut microbiota in treated chickens.associations between microbiota and performance measuresthis study found strong associations between gut microbiota and the growth performance of the birds reinforcing previous findings geier et al.

antibiotics have an impact on the intestinal microbiota yet it is unclear whether they increase growth performance by reducing the energetic cost of the intestinal system through reductions oftotal gut microbiota collier et al.

95.40and microbiota composition with each antibiotic avilamycin and zinc bacitracin showing contrasting results.birds in each trial showed distinctly different growth per- formance and microbiota composition corroborating our pre- vious findings in independent experiments stanley et al.

doi 10.1007s00253-017-8193-9understanding the mechanisms of zinc bacitracin and avilamycin on animal production linking gut microbiota and growth performance in chickenseduardo crisol-martinez1 dragana stanley 123  mark s. geier4 robert j. hughes356  robert j. moore 378received 17 january 2017  revised 5 february 2017  accepted 12 february 2017  published online 28 february 2017 springer-verlag berlin heidelberg 2017abstract unravelling the mechanisms of how antibiotics in- fluence growth performance through changes in gut microbi- ota can lead to the identification of highly productive micro- biota in animal production.

here we investigated the effect of zinc bacitracin and avilamycin on growth performance and caecal microbiota in chickens and analysed associations be- tween individual bacteria and growth performance.

95.40 showed negative correlations with fcr p  0.001 r  -0.368 and p  0.001 r  -0.366 respectively and positive correlations with bwg p  0.021 r  0.168 and p  0.001 r  0.259respectively.discussioninter- and intra-trial comparisons of microbiota composition and growth performanceconsidering the widespread use of antibiotics in the poultry industry it is important to discern their impact on gut micro- biota and growth performance in order to understand their mode of action and enable the development of alternative production and treatment strategies for reduced reliance on antibiotic feed enhancers.

further research is necessary to investigate at a community level the interactions between antibiotic administration and lactobacillus and bacteroides species in order to identify the underlying mechanisms leading to improved growth performance.overall this study found that zinc bacitracin may enhance growth performance and even increase caecal microbiota di- versity in some communities associated with reductions in the abundance of dominant species.

if the key attributes of highly productive microbiota can be understood then it may be possible to develop alternative strategies to in-feed antibiotic usage in commercial practice.the microbiota present in the gastrointestinal tract of ani- mals plays a key role in the health of the host.

the authors of this study used terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism t-rflp to ana- lyse the development of gut microbiota during the first 17 days after hatching however the recent development of molecular tools such as high-throughput dna sequencing allows great- er in-depth analyses of gut microbiota.

a recent review highlighted the importance of experimental factors when de- signing experiments aimed at understanding and interpreting the effects of gut microbiota moore and stanley .it is necessary to stress that each microbial community can respond to any treatment differently and that previous research showed that gut microbiota in different chicken flocks can differ significantly even at a phylum level having low levels of shared otus between the flocks stanley et al.

avilamycin produced no effect on growth performance and exhibited little significant disturbance of the microbiota struc- ture.

for instance research has shown that two antibiotic treatments bacitracinvirginiamycin or monensin promoted the growth of clostridia and reduced the microbiota diversity in the ileum of broiler chickens lu et al.

not only few studies have attempted to understand how gut mi- crobiota is affected by antibiotics but also even fewer have analysed the relationship between gut microbiota and growth performance stanley et al.

in this study two separate animal trials were conducted to investigate the impact of the two antibiotics on growth perfor- mance and gut microbiota using sequenced samples from 192 birds.

the distance matrices for the growth performance measures were based on euclidean distance and for microbiota abun- dance data on both weighted and unweighted unifrac dis- tances lozupone and knight .

