ciliao filho et al.4ul phenolchloroformisoamyl alcohol 25241 solution and homogenized in a vortex agitator with glass beads ausubel et al.

ciliao filho et al.8according to skinner et al.

among v. labrusca bordeaux cultivar has stood out for its capacity to adapt to brazilian climatic conditions high productivity and tolerance to fungal diseases rizzon et al.

yeast is the responsible agent for the transformation of must sugar into alcohol during the fermentation process to produce wine producing and releasing pectinases that with b-glucanases and hemicellulases help the extraction clearing and stabilization of wine resulting in improvement in its quality and stability bhat 2000 takayanagi et al.

2001. according to gump and halght 1995 pectinases reduce winemaking costs due to the elimination andor substitution of enhancers in grape processing and winemaking increasing productivity.winemaking is a complex process that involves the sequential development of different yeast species sabate et al.

the population of yeasts related with grape carposphere depends on grape variety its maturation level and grapevine geographical location sabate et al.

2002. according to sabate et al.

therefore it is essential to identify and characterize yeasts found on the grape carposphere to obtain better quality wine combina et al.

2005.genetic diversity of yeasts from grape carposphere3the development of molecular techniques for dna analysis such as pcr polymerase chain reaction and dna sequencing allowed establishing strategies for more accurate taxonomic identification of microbial isolates barcellos and hungria 2010. for fungi in general including yeasts the rdna region its1-5.8s-its2 has been utilized for the taxonomic identification of the genus and species through pcr-rflp restriction fragment length polymorphism barcellos and hungria 2010. despite having been developed for repetitive elements of prokaryotic genomes the pcr of repetitive elements rep-pcr is also an identification option that has been utilized for eukaryotic genomes and in studies of diversity and taxonomy of yeasts loncaric et al.

the digestion product was applied in electrophorese gel with 2 agarose wv using the molecular mass marker of 1 kb plus dna ladder invitrogen with ethidium bromide sambrook and russell 2006.dna amplification by rep-pcrthe primers described by versalovic et al.

the pcr product 15 ul was submitted to electrophorese on 1.5 agarose gel wv with molecular mass marker of 1 kb plus dna ladder invitrogen with ethidium bromide sambrook and russell 2006.dendrogram graphgenetic diversity of yeasts from grape carposphere5based on band profiles obtained from rep-pcr and pcr-rflp amplifications of the its1-5.8s-its2 region of rdna isolates were grouped by dendroupgma program http genomes.urv.catupgma garcia-vallve et al.

1999. a dendrogram construction was done utilizing upgma unweighted pair-group method with arithmetic mean algorithm sneath and sokal 1973 and jaccard's coefficient at a tolerance level of 3 barcellos et al.

moreover the morphological variation makes yeast characterization by morphological characteristics difficult therefore the molecular technique becomes the most appropriate technique for a more accurate taxonomic classification tofalo et al.

the fragments amplified by pcr figure 4 were digested with cfoi hinfl and haeiii restriction enzymes and the generated band profiles are shown in table 2. these patterns were compared to the ones described by esteve-zarzoso et al.

1980 and phaff 1990 grape carposphere consists mainly of yeast-like fungi such as aureobasidium rhodotorula cryptococcus candida pichia hanseniaspora and saccharomyces genera similar to most genera found in our study table 2. other authors also cite the presence of saccharomyces cerevisiae candida valida kloeckera apiculata and pichia membranifaciens on the grape carposphere mamede and pastore 2004 fernandes et al.

