regardless of their origin the observed den- sity of the bacteria in the calcium bodies clearly indicates their exploitation of the niche while their close affiliation to ubiqui- tous soil taxa suggests a non-obligate nature of this association for the symbiont.although direct comparison of bacterial diversity between the calcium bodies and other colonized organs of terrestrial isopods might be influenced by sample size and methodolog- ical approach the previously observed bacterial diversity in hemolymph gonads and nerve cord of a. vulgare dittmer et al.kostanjsvek et al.7figure 5. yellow-green fluorescence in cross section of calcium body stained with dapi indicating the presence of polyphosphate in the bacteria-containing layers and the core of calcium body.

in h. riparius the posterior pair of calcium bodies is similar to the calcium bodies of t. albus whereas the anterior pair is devoid of bacteria contains caco3 and is delimited by an epithelium lacking apical folds.anterior body segments ziegler   becker et al.

their highest diversity has been observed inkostanjsvek et al.3the digestive system kostanjsvek et al.

in addition terrestrial isopods from the group trichoniscidae accumulate calcium in specialized organs known as the calcium bodies vittori et al.

.microscopic anatomy studies of the calcium bodies in the cave isopod titanethes albus vittori et al.

in contrast the ante- rior pair of the calcium bodies of h. riparius is devoid of bacteria and contains only concentric layers of calcium carbonate while the posterior pair is filled with bacteria-containing matrix min- eralized with apatite vittori et al.

in this view the association of these bacteria with the host is most likely commensalistic or opportunistic bouchon zimmer and dittmer .common presence and large numbers of bacteria inhabiting the confined sacs of calcium bodies without any obvious signs of pathogenesis for the trichoniscid hosts vittori et al.

six otus shared the sequences obtained from both t. albus libraries ta1 and ta2 while three otu's shared the sequences from the clone libraries hr1 and hr2 obtained from the posterior calcium bodies of h. riparius.affiliation of the sequences in four clone libraries to higher taxa percentage of shared nucleotide 7-mers s.ab score with the nearest known sequences deposited in rdp database cole et al.

although the direct connection between the lumen of calcium bodies and the gut or the outer surface has not been shown in adult animals vittori et al.

despite lower diversity the bacterial density in the calcium bodies observed by electron microscopy exceeds the bacterial concentrations in other colonized organs of terres- trial isopods including the digestive system wang et al.

primary sym- bionts generally belong to distinct and deeply branched phylo- genetic lineages that coevolved with the host baumann  while all bacteria in the calcium bodies exhibit close similar- ity to known bacterial taxa and clones isolated from the soil willems maergaret and swings  an et al.

to analyze the distribution of the polyp in the calcium bodies and relate its presence to bacterial classes detected in these organs by 16s rrna gene analysis we used the combination of fish analysis and histochemical analysis based on yellow fluorescence of polyp after dapi staining allan and miller  ruiz rodrigues and docampo  pavlov et al.

while the presence of larger amounts of the former two in the calcium bodies was not expected the amor- phous calcium phosphate is known to occur in these organs vittori et al.

the latter confirmed that bacterial granules in the calcium bodies of both species contain ca and p in ratios characteristic of polyphosphate doonan et al.

at the same time the presence of calcium phosphate in the colonized posterior calcium bodies and ab- sence of phosphorus in the bacteria-free anterior pair of these organs in h. riparius strongly indicate the release of phos- phate from polyp accumulated in bacterial symbionts vittori et al.

