in recent years the metabolic crosstalk between a host and its gut microbiota in modulating the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of drugs has gained much attention klaassen and cui 2015 yip and chan 2015. many xenobiotics derived from food products and medicinal plant materials have been shown to undergo extensive metabolism by gut microbiota resulting in the formation of small molecular metabolites that not only are more bioavailable than parental compounds but also reveal interesting pharmacological properties kieran and del rio 2015. one of the most widely studied gut microbiota metabolites of natural products are the urolithins.

although the volunteer's microbiota were able to produce uc no phase ii metabolites of this compound were detected in urine.phase ii metabolites of urolithins were isolated from human urine and their structures were fully described based on the nmr spectra.

the developed method yields significant amounts of phase ii metabolites of urolithins which can be then applied to evaluate the in vivo effects and mechanisms of et microbiota metabolites.

after absorption urolithins rapidly undergo phase ii metabolism resulting in their presence in plasma and tissues mostly in a conjugated form these metabolites are mainly glucuronides and to a lesser extent sulfates.

the great majority of in vitro experiments were conducted for urolithin aglycones making them incongruent with the results of pharmacokinetic studies that clearly indicate that glucuronide conjugates of urolithins are the dominant metabolites present in plasma tissues and urine tomas-barberan et al.

food funct 41442-1451.espin jc larrosa m garcia-conesa mt and tomas-barberan f 2013 biological significance of urolithins the gut microbial ellagic acid-derived metabolites the evidence so far.

j agric food chem 583933- 3939.gonzalez-barrio r truchado p ito h espin jc and tomas-barberan fa 2011 uv and ms identification of urolithins and nasutins the bioavailable metabolites of ellagitannins and ellagic acid in different mammals.

j agric food chem 591152-1162.gonzalez-sarrias a espin jc tomas-barberan fa and garcia-conesa mt 2009 gene expression cell cycle arrest and mapk signalling regulation in caco-2 cells exposed to ellagic acid and its metabolites urolithins.

mol nutr food res 53686-698.gonzalez-sarrias a gimenez-bastida ja garcia-conesa mt gomez-sanchez mb garcia-talavera nv gil-izquierdo a sanchez-alvarez c fontana-compiano lo morga-egea jp pastor-quirante fa martinez-diaz f tomas-barberan fa and espin jc 2010 occurrence of urolithins gut microbiota ellagic acid metabolites and proliferation markers expression response in the human prostate gland upon consumption of walnuts and pomegranate juice.

mol aspects med 31513-539.larrosa m gonzalez-sarrias a garcia-conesa mt tomas-barberan fa and espin jc 2006 urolithins ellagic acid-derived metabolites produced by human colonic microflora exhibit estrogenic and antiestrogenic activities.

carbohydr res 3402077-2085.piwowarski jp granica s and kiss ak 2014a influence of gut microbiota-derived ellagitannins' metabolites urolithins on pro-inflammatory activities of human neutrophils.

phytochem anal 24336-348.piwowarski jp kiss ak granica s and moeslinger t 2015 urolithins gut microbiota-derived metabolites of ellagitannins inhibit lps-induced inflammation in raw 264.7 murine macrophages.

j agric food chem 626535-6538.tomas-barberan fa gonzalez-sarrias a garcia-villalba r nunez-sanchez ma selma mv garcia-conesa mt and espin jc 2016 urolithins the rescue of 'old' metabolites to understand a 'new' concept metabotypes as a nexus between phenolic metabolism microbiota dysbiosis and host health status.

the phase-ii metabolism of urolithins in different cell lines is considered a mechanism of cancer cells resistance against urolithins due to their conversion to glucuronide conjugates which were shown to exert significantly lower anti-proliferative activity adams et al.

nevertheless deconjugation of urolithin glucuronides by e. coli b- glucuronidase revealed here indicates the need for examination of both conjugated and non-conjugated urolithins in future studies on the influence of orally administered et-containing natural products on processes associated with urinary tract infections.the dominance of urolithins of plasma tissues and urine glucuronide conjugates is potent as they release their aglycones directly in inflamed and neoplastic tissues due to enhanced b-glucuronidase activity.

