some studies have demonstrated that the principal bioactive compounds from morinda citrifolia have potentially beneficial effects in obesity and obesity-related metabolic dysfunction and they are listed in table .table 1. principal phytochemicals from morinda citrifolia as bioactive compounds against obesity and obesity-related metabolic dysfunction.part of plantstructural classbioactive compoundsconcentrations ofreferencesfruitphenolic acidchlorogenic acid10.49 mg100 ml -gentisic acid19.16 mg100 ml -p-hydroxybenzoic acid14.12 mg100 ml -anthocyanindata not showntable 1. cont.part of plantstructural classbioactive compoundsconcentrations ofreferencesleafflavonoidscatechin63.46 mgg epicatechin23.08 mgg rutin6.83 mgg kaempferol21-80 mg triterpenoidsterpenesursolic aciddata not shownprincipal bioactive compounds from fruits leaves and roots of morinda citrifolia used for obesity and obesity-related metabolic dysfunction.these bioactive compounds called phytochemicals include phenolic acids lignans flavonoids flavones flavans-3-ol anthocyanins phytosterols alkaloids vitamins and minerals.

nonithe genus morinda belongs to the madder or coffee family rubiaceae and includes approximately 80 species including morinda citrifolia linn morinda citrifolia l. which is popularly called noni or indian mulberry .

effects of administration of different doses and parts of the morinda citrifolia plant on obesity in in vivo and in vitro studies.the influence of morinda citrifolia fruit mfe and leaf mle extracts on lpl activity were evaluated in vitro by two independent research groups .

thus morinda citrifolia has been widely studied as an alternative treatment for these complications.intensive research efforts have evaluated the positive effects of morinda citrifolia on glucose homeostasis in models of t2dm .

however studies are still scarce in humans and more investigations are needed.therefore the aim of this review was to assess specific in vitro and in vivo studies related to the mechanisms of action and bioactive compounds that promote the benefits of morinda citrifolia l. noni in the treatment of obesity and obesity-related metabolic dysfunction such as insulin resistancet2dm dyslipidemia hypertension nafld  and its influence on the gut microbiota.morinda citrifolia linn.

in addition some quality of life factors such as physical function and fatigue control were improved in patients who took a mean dose of 8 g per day compared with patients who took higher and lower doses .effects of bioactive compounds from the morinda citrifolia l. plant on obesity and obesity-related metabolic dysfunctionmorinda citrifolia and obesityobesity is characterized by the expansion of adipose tissue.

there are several ptps where ptp1b has important roles in insulin receptor signaling  and is a key regulator of the leptin signaling pathway .table 3. the effects of administration of the morinda citrifolia l. plant on insulin resistancetype 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm.hostpart of plantdosetimeeffectsreference-stimulatory effects on glucose uptakein vitromorinda citrifolia powder plant part not identified methanol extract.fruit fermented noniisolation of compounds two new lignans three new neolignans and 10 known acid compounds.-1.5 ulg bodythrough a fluorescent-tagged glucose probe 2-nbdg in 3t3-l1adipocyte cells.nguyen et al.

morinda citrifolia noni is well known as a traditional healing plant due to its medicinal properties.

in this review we summarize not only the clinical effects but also important cell signaling pathways in in vivo and in vitro assays of potent bioactive compounds present in the noni plant which have been reported in studies of obesity and obesity-associated metabolic dysfunction.keywords morinda citrifolia l. obesity obesity-related metabolic dysfunction healthintroductionthe prevalence of obese individuals has doubled worldwide since the 1980s.

the main vitamins reported in noni fruit puree are ascorbic acid vitamin c which corresponds to 250 mg ascorbic acid per 100 g fresh matter niacin vitamin b3 and vitamin a .chemical composition of the noni plantdespite the issues surrounding morinda citrifolia fruit especially its taste and odor people still use the bottle-pasteurized juice either in pure form or mixed with other juices due to the various phytochemicals in the noni plant totaling approximately 200 compounds.

in the white hard stage noni fruits have approximately two times more antioxidant activity 1.5 times higher phenol content and seven times higher ascorbic acid content in comparison to immature green fruits which have 1.1-1.5 times the antioxidant activity 1.3 times the total phenols and 1.3 times the content of ascorbic acid .important phytochemicals of morinda citrifolia on obesity and obesity-related metabolic dysfunctionthe high prevalence of obesity and obese-related metabolic dysfunction has led to extensive investigations to seek out alternative therapies because of several reports of side-effects that are promoted by synthetic drugs.

anthraquinones in morinda citrifolia are found especially in the roots and the main compounds with important effects on metabolism are alizarin lucidin 3-o-b-d-primeveroside damnacanthol-3-o-b-d-primeveroside and rubiadin-1-methyl ether .

asperulosidic acid is one of the most important iridoids isolated from morinda citrifolia and it has been shown to improve blood fluidity which influences the health of obese patients and those with obesity-associated disorders such as hypertension diabetes and dyslipidemia .

nonetheless these toxicity studies will be irrelevant if nj products are obtained using inappropriate processing methods contain microbial contaminants or have been adulterated with unsafe ingredients .therapeutical use of the noni plantdue to the potential bioactive compounds present in morinda citrifolia fruit that are good for human health some companies add other fruit juices to provide a flavorful and enhanced product .

one explanation for the effectiveness of nj is the large amount of phenolic acids present in its composition including gentisic acid p-hydroxybenzoic acid and chlorogenic acid table .a recent study demonstrated positive effects of morinda citrifolia leaves mle as dried plant material that were extracted with 60 ethanol mle 60 in hfd obese sprague-dawley male rats.

