which habitats do bacteria inhabit and what are the major drivers of their abundance and diversity what is their role in nutrient cycling and the c balance how do they interact with other forest organisms how do they respond to climate change and how does this response affect ecosystem processes the aim of this review is to answer these questions for temperate and boreal forests to summarize the present knowledge about the role of bacteria in ecosystem processes and about their response to global change as well as to motivate further research in the bacterial ecology of forests.bacterial communities in forest ecosystemsforest ecosystems provide a broad range of habitats for bacteria including soil and plant tissues and surfaces streams and rocks among others but bacteria seem to be especially abundant on the forest floor in soil and litter .

rna-based studies of forests confirm how thousands of microbial taxa are transcriptionally active in forest litter and soil underscoring the involvement of many players in important processes that occur in soil and the importance of taxa with a low abundance of dna.acknowledgmentsthis work was supported by the czech science foundation grant 14-09040p the ministry of education youth and sports of the czech republic grant ld15086 and the institutional research concept of the institute of microbiology of the cas grant rvo61388971.we declare that we have no conflicts of interest.referenceskeenan rj reams ga achard f de freitas jv grainger a lindquist e. 2015. dynamics of global forest area results from the fao global forest resources assessment 2015. for ecol manage 3529 -20.

the exact extent of the contribution of bacteria to forest ecosystem processes will be recognized only in the future when the activities of all soil community members are studied simultaneously.keywords bacteria decomposition ecosystem processes forest ecology global change litter nutrient cycling soiljune 2017 volume 81 issue 2 e00063-16microbiology and molecular biology reviews 1introductionorests represent one of the largest and most important ecosystems on earth covering more than 40 million km2 and representing 30 of the total global land area .

natural areas of deciduous and mixed temperate forest light green and evergreen coniferous forest dark green are shown in green and natural areas occupied by boreal forests are shown in blue.

in this sense the effects of increasing temperature persistence of droughts recurrence of fires or expansion of native and invasive forest pests together with the increasing loads of nitrogen n and carbon dioxide affect forest nutrient cycles to a level where forests may potentially become net sources rather than sinks of co2   .

microbial communities are vital in mediating the biogeochemical cycles and an understanding of their role in ecosystem processes is essential for the prediction of the forest response to futureenvironmental conditions   .fungi are the most well-studied microbes in temperate and boreal forest soils that harbor abundant and diverse communities of saprotrophic and mycorrhizal fungal taxa   .

considering the frequency of cellulolytic genes in bacterial genomes  bacterial involvement in decomposition seems to be a relatively common trait.fig 2 drivers of bacterial community composition in forest soils and features of bacterial ecology in the rhizosphere litterdeadwood and soil compartments of the forest floor.while the acidic soils of coniferous forests harbor mainly proteobacteria acidobac- teria and actinobacteria   in temperate deciduous forests litter bacterial com- munities seem to be especially enriched with proteobacteria and bacteroidetes   .

considering the high level of spatial variation of forest c stocks on the same scale  the occurrence of individual taxa in forest soil may actually be highly variable on a small scale and may differ among activity hot spots such as the rhizosphere and the bulk soil  .

forest ecosystems are dominated by ectomycor- rhizal fungi ecm with a biomass of up to 600 kg ha-1   and the annual production of fungal mycelia in a spruce forest ranges from 100 to 300 kg ha-1 .

it is clear that the degree to which rising co2 levels will be offset by c sequestration in forest ecosystems will strongly depend on the adaptation of both trees and soil microorganisms to the altered environmental conditions.thus how do co2 levels affect bacterial populations in forest topsoils and is it possible to generalize the observations obtained across ecosystems for different soils with various vegetations the effects of elevated co2 levels do not directly affect soil bacterial populations co2 concentrations in soil pores are normally higher than those in the atmosphere and the response of bacteria to small co2 changes is thus negligible .

this decrease in the fungalbacterial biomass ratio due to n addition is consistently found across forest soils where it ranges from 25 to 70    .n deposition also changes the composition of bacterial communities in forest soils.

here we show that despite the important role of fungi in forest soils bacteria fulfill multiple important ecosystem roles in the forest environment including organic matter decomposition regulation of mycorrhizal symbiosis and involvement in n cycle processes.

studies combining the assessment of metabolites present in the rhizosphere at different times their turnovers and transformations and the effects and implications of bacterial taxa in terms of fluxes are the next step toward elucidating the effects of forest trees on the rhizospheres and how they relate to the cycling of c and other nutrients.the large number of studies examining the bacterial communities in forest ecosys- tems that were published in recent years are shedding light on the high diversity and complex structure of these communities.

2015. long-term forest soil warmingalters microbial communities in temperate forest soils.

2013. long-term changes in forest carbon under temperature and nitrogen amendments in a temperate northern hardwood forest.

