except for t. berlinense which is presently not associated with dd in the slurry samples from dairy farms with no known problems of dd negative dairy farms with dd-infected cows positive and dairy farms with unknown status no info.spirochaetaceae are natural inhabitants of the bovine rumen  and include commensal species such as treponema bryantii and treponema saccharophilum both of which have been isolated from the rumen of cows  .

unclassified.tionally we tested if specific environmental variables influenced the composition of the slurry microbiota.we sequenced a 310-bp region of the 16s rrna gene of 135 slurry samples 3 of the138 samples were negative from 22 dairy herds with primers targeting general bacteria v1-v2 region and the treponema group specifically v3-v4 region.

these primers amplify a 322-bp region of the 16s rrna gene which we have previously shown is well suited to classify the dd- associated treponemes at the species level  since these primers do not amplify nontreponeme dna.results and discussiondd is a polymicrobial disease and treponema phagedenis-like treponema denticola treponema pedis-like treponema mediumtreponema vincentii-like and treponema refringens-like phylotypes are the most prevalent species found in the lesions  .

in addition dna amplicons from dd-associated bacteria such as p. levii and d. nodosus were not detectable in the slurry samples tested in the present study.table 1 herd variablesann not known.spirochetes appear to make up a very small part of the slurry microbiota in dairy herds and dd-associated treponemes an even smaller fraction.

to investigate whether dd-related bacteria belong to the indigenous microbiota of the dairy herd environment we used deep amplicon sequencing of the 16s rrna gene in 135 slurry samples collected from different sites in 22 dairy farms with and with- out dd-infected cows.

slurry samples two sets of four samples were collected from different locations on the floor with a wooden spatula as follows two random samples one sample from the floor of the drinking area and one sample from below the swinging cow brush.

environmental microbiologymicrobiota analysis of an environmental slurry and its potential role as a reservoir of bovine digital dermatitis pathogenskirstine klitgaard mikael l. strube anastasia isbrand martin w. nielsennational veterinary institute technical university of denmark frederiksberg denmarkabstract at present very little information exists regarding what role the envi- ronmental slurry may play as an infection reservoir andor route of transmission for bovine digital dermatitis dd a disease which is a global problem in dairy herds.

this study applied next-generation sequencing technology to decipher the microbial compositions of environmental slurry of dairy herds with and without digital derma- titis.keywords deep amplicon sequencing digital dermatitis slurry treponemaovine digital dermatitis dd is an inflammation of the skin around the digits and the main cause of lameness in cattle .

these data indicate that treponemes involved in the pathogenesis of dd are not part of the normal environmental microflora in dairy herds without clini- cal dd and consequently that slurry is not a primary reservoir of infection.importance bovine digital dermatitis dd a dermal disease which causes lame- ness in dairy cattle is a serious problem worldwide.

addi-fig 1 the relative abundances of the most highly represented bacterial taxa at the family level where possible in the individual slurry samples from the 22 dairy farms included in the study.

environmental slurry samples were collected from 22 danish farms at different geographical locations in zealand n  6 funen n  2 and jutland n  14. the criteria for selecting a farm were i a positive response to a request to take part in the study emails were sent out to most danish dairy farmers and ii a geographical location which allowed us to do the sampling within 3 days.

after being kept at 4degc for 24 h according to the manufacturer's instructions the samples were stored at -20degc until use.bacterial dna was extracted from slurry samples using a maxwell 16 lev blood dna kit and a maxwell 16 as1290 instrument promega wi usa.

however it must be noted that all the samples in that study came from dd-infected farms.therefore in the present study we sequenced samples from randomly selected dairy farms with and without a history of dd problems.

the dairy herd slurry may be a pathogen reservoir of dd-associated bacteria.

few studies have applied next-generation sequencing technologies to the slurry in dairy herds .

