in contrast there was no significant difference in translocated fitc-dextran levels on day 7 between healthy untreated mice no allo-hsct and mice that had received tbi and donor bm but no donor t cells tbi 2x4.5 gy  tcd-bm control mice a. these data suggest that fitc-dextran intestinal permeability analysis detects severe forms of mucosal damage split dose tbi  allo-hsct with t cells but is less sensitive for less severe forms of mucosal damage split dose tbi only.

neutrophil levels of mice that received 9 gy tbi were further significantly increased e. in contrast fitc-dextran intestinal permeability analysis did not detect intestinal barrier damage after 5.5 gy tbi as fitc-dextran levels in the serum after irradiation with 5.5 gy were notincreased compared to untreated control mice e. as tighta300002000010000no treatment n6tbi 2x4.5 gy  tcd-bm n7tbi 2x4.5 gy  tcd-bm  t cells n7b2000015000100005000no tbi n9 tbi 9 gy n230day 7 after allo-hsctc0day 3 after tbifig.

furthermore we corroborated the assertion that translocation of bacteria and pamps contribute to this process since mice that had received antibiotics in the drinking water to reduce the intestinal microbial burden showed significantly decreased neutrophil levels after tbi compared to mice that had not received antibiotics b.lamina propria neutrophil analysis is sensitive and specificnext we examined the power of lamina propria neutrophil analysis as a read-out to discriminate between untreated and irradiated mice c. here as well the percentages of neutrophils of all lpl of untreated and irradiated mice were assumed to be gaussian.

d fitted gaussian distribution of mice depicted in c and statistical analysis of type-i-error 0.001 and resulting type-ii-error 0.005. e untreated balbc mice n  8 mice that received 5.5 gy n  8 or 9 gy n  8 tbi were challenged with oral gavage of fitc-dextran on day 3. fitc-dextran concentrations in the serum and percentages of neutrophils cd11bhi gr-1hi of all live lpl isolated from small intestine ileum are depicted.

setting the level to 5 resulted in a type-ii-error false negatives of 23. while 5 of all untreated mice would be misidentified as irradiated mice false positives only 77 of all irradiated mice would be correctly identified.

to statisticallyevaluate the estimated sensitivity and specificity of fitc-dextranbe misidentified as irradiated mice false positives 77 of all irradiated mice would be correctly identified c. such rather low expected values of sensitivity 77 and specificity 95  indicated that fitc-dextran translocation may not represent intestinal barrier dysfunction with sufficient accuracy in this setting.neutrophil granulocyte migration into the intestinal lamina propria reflects barrier breech and translocation of microbiotaa recent publication demonstrated that tbi leads to neutrophil granulocyte chemotaxis into the intestinal lp.

in fact mice that received 5.5 gy tbi already showed significantly enhanced neutrophil levels compared to untreated mice.

c lpl isolated from small intestines ileum of balbc mice were analyzed by flow cytometry on day 3 after 9 gy tbi n  23 and were compared with untreated mice n  9. percentages of neutrophils cd11bhi gr-1hi of all live cells are depicted.

tbi was split into two doses 2x4.5 gy to reconcile reduced collateral toxicity with optimal eradication of recipientengraftment of donor hematopoietic compartments .intestinal damage by total body irradiation alone6-8 weeks old balbc or c57bl6 mice were irradiated with different tbi doses 0-11 gy to achieve different levels of damage to the intestinal mucosa as indicated in the text and figure legends.

the maximal tbi doses 9 gy balbc 11 gy c57bl6 were chosen accord- ing to commonly applied myeloablative tbi doses as used for conditioning therapy before allo-hsct of respective recipients depend- ing on the radio sensitivity of the mouse strain used .intestinal damage by chemotherapy alonec57bl6 mice were treated with doxorubicin injected intraperito- neally 7.5 or 20.0 mgkg body weight as indicated in the text andfigure legends.intestinal fitc-dextran intestinal permeability analysisfitc-dextran intestinal permeability analysis was performed similar to what was previously described .

although irradiated mice showed significantly increased fitc-dextran serum levels b 3 days after 9 gy tbi those levels were much lower than 7 days after tbi 2x4.5 gy  tcd-bm  t cells.

1. fitc-dextran intestinal permeability analysis detects barrier loss with low sensitivity and specificity a balbc mice were either left untreated n  6 or received split dose 2x4.5 gy tbi followed by allo-hsct with t cell-depleted bone marrow tcd-bm only n  7 or with 2x4.5 gy tbi  tcd-bm  t cells n  7 on day 0 and were then challenged with oral gavage of fitc-dextran on day  7. depicted are fitc-dextran concentrations in the serum.

setting the level to a usual threshold of 5 led to a cut-off1 nn i1xi and s21 nn i1xi-m2.in a second step these estimatesvalue of 2505 ngml resulting in a type-ii-error of 23 false nega-tives and related power of 77. while 5 of the untreated mice wouldwere used to obtain acceptance regions in statistical tests to allow for distinguishing healthy untreated from treated mice.

we observed several significant changes in gene expression levels of claudin 2 claudin 4 claudin 11 occludin jam-a and zo-1 between untreated mice and mice that received 5.5 gy or 9 gy tb respectively supplementary fig.

a untreated balbc mice and balbc mice that received doxorubicin 75 mgkg or doxorubicin 20 mgkg i.p.

