a serum levels of tnf-a collected 1.5 h after lps injection in ripk1lpc-ko mice pretreated or not with lip-cl2mbp each dot represents an individual n  3-5. b tnf-a transcripts of f480 positive cells isolated from ripk1flfl or ripk1lpc-ko mice 1.5 h after pbs n  2 or lps injection n  3-5. c tnf-a red and f480 green immunofluorescence staining on liver sections from ripk1lpc-ko mice sacrificed 8.5 h after lps injection with an eventual pretreatment with lip-cl2mbp.

in accordance with this idea wefound that tnf-a was quickly released in ripk1lpc-ko and ripk1flfl littermates following lps injection b and that depletion of macrophages reduced by more than 90 the serum concentration of tnf-a 1.5 h after lps administration inripk1lpc-ko mice a. moreover isolation of f480 positive cells from ripk1flfl and ripk1lpc-ko mice 1.5 h after pbs or lps treatment showed that lps induced an upregulation of the tnf-a mrna in these cells at similar levels in both mouse strainsb.

remarkably we found that tnf-a blockade fully protected ripk1lpc-ko mice from lps-induced liver injury as demonstratedby the dramatic reduction of serum transaminase levels a the absence of necrotic areas and the reduction of tunel and cl- caspase 3 positive cells in the livers of ripk1lpc-ko mice b.western blot analysis confirmed the presence of tnf-a releaseand caspase 3 activation in the livers of ripk1flfl and ripk1lpc-ko mice after lps injection which were prevented by the etanercept pretreatment c.discussionhepatocyte death is a key trigger of liver disease progression .

the significance is shown as follows p 0.05 p 0.01 p 0.001 ripk1flfl mice vs. ripk1lpc-ko mice.exposed to cpg-dna b. these were even more significant in ripk1lpc-ko mice subjected to lps administration c.in order to evaluate whether ripk1 deficiency had any impact on the systemic inflammatory response we measured the levels of serum pro-inflammatory cytokines in cpg-dna or lps injectedmice.

thus to better understand the protective role of ripk1 during hepatitis induced by pamps administration we continued experiments with the lps model.depletion of kupffer cells reduces lps-mediated hepatitis inlpc-kop 0.05 p 0.01 p 0.001 mice treated with lps or cpg-dna vs. mice treated with pbs.ripk1miceresultsdeficiency of ripk1 in liver parenchymal cells sensitizes the liver to damage induced by pampsto investigate the role of ripk1 in the liver we used the ripk1lpc-ko mouse strain which present with a specific deletion of ripk1 in liver parenchymal cells .

b and c pictures of liver tissue sections stained by he left panels analyzed by tunel in red and dapi in blue immunofluorescence middle panels or analyzed by ihc for cleaved caspase-3 right panels issued from ripk1flfl or ripk1lpc-ko mice 8.5 h after cpg-dna or lps challenge.the liver damage induced by lps in ripk1lpc-ko mice.

c pictures of liver tissue sections analyzed by immunohistochemistry for myeloperoxidase mpo issued from ripk1flfl or ripk1lpc-ko mice 8.5 h after lps challenge.we investigated the role of tnf-a in our model by pre-treating ripk1lpc-ko mice for 1 h with etanercept a tnf-a decoy receptor widely used clinically in humans before lps injection.

next f480 positive cells were pelleted and stored dry at-80 degc before rna extraction.in order to measure cell transcripts messenger rna mrna from 50000 f480 positive cells were extracted with the nucleospin rna xs kit macherey nagel 740902. next first-strand cdna was synthesized using the superscripttm ii reverse transcriptase applied biosystems 4368813 and real-time quantita- tive pcr was performed using the fluorescent dye sybr green with the double- strand specific sybrr green system applied biosystems 4367659 tnf-a fwd 50-tag ctc cca gaa aag caa gc-30 rev 50-ttt tct gga ggg agajournal of hepatologyripk1flfl mice did not exhibit an increase in serum transaminase levels sera from ripk1lpc-ko mice revealed a significant increasein alt and ast after administration of cpg-dna and severe hep- atolysis after low dose of lps 0.4 lg20 g of body weight injec- tion a. in line with these results liver sections of ripk1flflshowed unaffected structures while tissue damage revealed by he staining and associated with tunel positive cells and cleaved caspase-3 cl-caspase 3 staining a marker of apoptosislpc-kotgt gg-30 and 18s fwd 50-cgc cgc tag agg tga aat tc-30 rev 50-ttginduction were observed in liver sections from ripk1micegca aat gct ttc gct c-30 primers and the cfx384 touchtm real-time pcr detection system biorad.

however no difference was observed between ripk1flfland ripk1lpc-ko mice a. we next evaluated the same cytokines but also the chemokines mcp1ccl2 and mip-1a ccl3 in sera from lps injected mice.

as described previ- ously  these mice as well as their ripk1flfl littermates are viable in adulthood and displayed normal serum transaminases levels suggesting that deficiency of ripk1 in a steady state does not induce hepatolysis a. next we evaluated acute effects on the liver of cpg-dna or lps administration in ripk1flfl and ripk1lpc-ko mice by monitoring serum levels of alt and ast as well as liver histology by he and tunel staining.

inorder to evaluate their contribution to the severe liver damage induced by lps in ripk1lpc-ko mice we specifically depleted mice from their macrophages by treating them for two days with liposome-encapsulated cl2mbp lip-cl2mbp .

in accordance with others we found an important reduc-tion of serum tnf-a level after lps challenge in mice previouslydepleted from their macrophages  suggesting a deleteri- ous role of tnf-a in ripk1lpc-ko mice.

mice were administrated with lps or control pbs 48 h after first injection of liposomes-encapsulated cl2mbp and sacrificed 8.5 h after lps injection.

moreover he coloration and mpo labelling of liver sections showed higher infiltrations of inflammatory cells in ripk1lpc-ko mice after lps administration b c and c. thus whereas cpg-dna triggered a moderate hepatolysis associated with low inflammation lps administration induced severe acute hepatocyte death which was associated with more extended pro- inflammatory cytokine expression and more important recruit- ment of inflammatory cells when ripk1 were absent in liver parenchymal cells.

while abundant f480 pos- itive cells were detected in the liver of sham ripk1lpc-ko mice lps challenged controls pretreated with vehicle pbs in place of lip- cl2mbp the labelling was dramatically reduced in the liver of lps challenged animals pretreated with lip-cl2mbp .

