thus values for humans fell slightly below the trend line.a third study took a novel macroeco- logical approach considering howaspects of species diversity including dominance evenness rarity and species richness scale with the total individual abundance n within ecological commu- nities and microbiomes.

b allometric scaling between microbial species diversity simpson's reciprocal index 1d and m for 71 species of mammals birds and reptiles .

who extracted dna from 71 vertebrate species characterized their gut microbial diversity using small subunit rrna gene analyses and calculated simpson's diversity indices.

in that microbial abundance-to-m scaling is nearly linear a and the scaling exponents for diversity versus m b and diversity species richness versus n c are nearly identical.concluding remarksthese three recent examples of thinking big about the smallest organisms under- score the power of allometry to estimate biological parameters that defy direct measurement.

the authors also showed how species richness scales with n for environments ranging in size from microhabitats to the whole of the earth c. based on this log-log relation- ship for which the exponent is 0.35 they calculated a total species richness for the entire biosphere of as many as approxi- mately 1 trillion i.e.

a total biosphere species richness of one trillion 1012 microbial species was estimated based on this relationship.

human microbiome diversity bythe same measure is 70. locey and len- non's equation allows estimation of the population size of the most common apatosaurus gut microbe  2 1015 although not the identity of this likely long-gone likely plant polymer-degrading species.

their analy- ses showed a robust scaling relationship between microbial diversity and animal masses ranging from a 12-g finch to a 3500-kg asian elephant with an expo- nent of 0.34 b. this increase in diversity with increasing habitat size is consistent with area-species theory .

for example applying these new principles to paleobiology we can estimate the gut of a 35-tonne apatosaurus formerly brontosaurus to have hosted nearly 100 quadrillion 1017 microbial cells based on kieft and simmons  and to have had a microbial diversity simpson's reciprocal diversity 1d 1000 based on godon et al.

the global abun- dance of animal-associated microbes and biosphere species richness have also been esti- mated.

the potential for further microbe-inclusive macroecological insights is high.macroecological scaling can be applied to microorganisms macroecology has the power to reveal fundamental ecological and physiological principles shared among widely disparate species but the tools of macroecology have seldom been applied to microorgan- isms .

an attribute usually of animals is quanti- fied for many species and plotted against individual size usually expressed as individual mass.

twenty-one species ranging in size from a tiny nematode vinegar eel to large mammals whale and ox werefigure legend continued on the bottom of the next page.trends in ecology  evolution june 2017 vol.

6 401large animals of which humans and domestic animals are the most successful species.

the authors locey and lennon reported a scaling relationship between the abundance of the most dominant species and n that appears to hold across 30 orders of mag- nitude.

