Generally sludge granules from anaerobic wastewater treatment plants are used to inoculate reactors digesting urban organic wastes mainly because they are widely distributed in these areas and have common fea- tures among them.In Mexico nearly 52 of the urban solid wastes consist of organic residues   215 million tons in 2011 Dur'an-Moreno et al.

Both anaerobic digesters contained exclusively granular sludge at the star-up time and the organic residues were gradually incorporated at an organic load of 40 kg VS m-3 day-1 Fig.

After the activation process reactors were fed the organic residues at an organic load of 40 kg VS m-3 day-1 at a hydraulic retention time of 13 days using a dilution factor of 10 total solids.

Letters in Applied Microbiology ISSN 0266-8254ORIGINAL ARTICLE Microbial dynamics in anaerobic digestion reactors for treating organic urban residues during the start-up processR.J.

Coyoac'an Ciudad de M'exico 04510 M'exico.E-mail 20162415 received 10 November 2016revised 23 February 2017 and accepted 8March 2017 doi10.1111lam.12734AbstractAnaerobic digestion of organic residues offers economic benefits via biogas production still methane CH4 yield relies on the development of a robust microbial consortia for adequate substrate degradation among other factors.

Reactors were initially inoculated with anaerobic granular sludge from a brewery wastewater treatment plant and gradually fed organic urban residues 40 kg VS m-3 day-1 .

The inocula and biomass samples showed changes related to adaptations of the community to urban organic wastes including a higher relative proportion of Clostridiales with Ruminococcus spp.

This study demonstrates a successful use of brewery treatment plant granular sludge to obtain a robust consortium for methane production from urban organic solid waste in Mexico.IntroductionDuring the last decades international and national devel- opment programs have incorporated sustainable policies for social and economical growth especially in urbanareas where waste management has emerged as an important topic closely related and integrated to develop climate change strategies Eriksson et al.

The anaerobic digestion of organic waste offers major environ- mental and economic benefits including production ofbiogas with 50-80 methane vv from nonfossil sources retention of gases with greenhouse effect reduced landfilling requirements elimination of pathogenic micro- organisms reduction of odours and flies and the co- production of a digestate from sludge with high fertilization capacity Holm-Nielsen et al.

The suc- cess of anaerobic digestion processes relies on the synergic interaction of micro-organisms that decompose organic matter polymers to smaller molecules including hydrolys- ing fermenting acidogenic and methanogenic micro- organisms Godon et al.

