for those experiments where a diet low in ahr ligands was desired mice were placed on either ''semipurified diet'' ain- 76a semi-purified diet testdiet st. louis mo or ''i3c diet'' ain-76a containing 1000 ppm i3c for the remainder of the study.

d g percent survival e h mean percent weight - sem and f i mean clinical score - sem after inoculation with 104 vpi 10463 c. difficile of male ahrth- d-f or male ahr-- g- i mice fed semipurified diet diet or semipurified diet supplemented with i3c diet i3c starting 2 weeks before abx treatment.

as seen in supplemental figure 1 the difference in loss of diversity between the semi-purified diet and i3c-supplemented diet before or after antibiotics is small and likely does not account for the dramatic improvement in survival with i3c-supplementation.dietary supplementation with i3c increases neutrophil response but reduces inflammationdespite significant differences in the clinical course of cdad in diet- versus diet i3c-fed mice no difference in colony-forming units of c. difficile in the cecum of mice at day 2 and day 4 was found between the 2 dietary groups fig.

e percent survival f mean percent weight - sem andg mean clinical score - sem after inoculation with 104 vpi 10463 c. difficile of male b6 mice fed semipurified diet diet or semipurified diet supplemented with i3c 1000 ppm starting two weeks before abx treatment.

micewere followedclinicallyforaminimumof 6 daysoreuthanizedbetweendays 0 and 4 of inoculation for analysis of the inflammatory response and microbiota.results b6 mice fed an ahr ligand-deficient semipurified diet have significantly increased disease severity p0.001 and mortality p  0.001 compared with mice fed on diet containing i3c.

addition of the ahr precursor ligand indole-3-carbinol i3c to purified diet reverses this cell loss.both iels and ilc3s are major sources of il-22 in the gutand the ahr is vital for the expression of il-22 in these lymphocyte subsets and conventional t cells.in addition to immune cell maintenance dietary- and microbiome- derived ahr ligands have been shown to be effective in treating ameliorating a different infectious disease vaginal candidiasis at mucosal surfaces in mice in an il-22-dependent fashion.using this information we hypothesized that the inclusion of i3c in the diet could reduce the severity of cdi.

1c d. both groups presented with peak mean clinical score on day 3 postinoculation.given that grain-based diet likely contains naturally occurring ahr ligandssimilar experiments were performed utilizing semi- purified diet manufactured with and without i3c.

semipurified diet lacks the majority of ahr ligands found in regular chow.after 2 weeks on diet mice underwent cdi induction receiving 104 spores.

similar to what was seen in wild- type b6 mice ahrth- mice on i3c-supplemented semipurified diet displayed increased survival and reduced weight loss and clinical score compared with mice on control diet fig.

4 f.addition of i3c to the diet decreases bacterial translocation during cdibacterial translocation has been identified as a main contrib- utor to disease severity in mice deficient in il-22 or in neutrophil influx.to examine whether supplementation of diet with i3c maintains epithelial integrity during cdi and decreases bacterial translocation tissue was harvested from four sites from semipurified and i3c-fed mice on day 4 post-cdi and viable bacterial counts were determined using standard methods.although both groups exhib- ited measureable bacterial loads in liver and lung with little to noc 2016 wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.

a cecal c. difficile cfug feces in diet and diet i3c mice at day 2 and 4 n 4 per group.

b and c representative flow plots and  of clp neutrophils per cd45 cells on day 0 n 4 per group and day 3 n 8 per group after inoculation in diet and diet i3c mice.

f relative il-22 il-17 and ifn-g expression at day 0 and 4 as measured by rt-pcr in semipurified diet and diet i3c mice normalized to b-actin n 4-10 per group.

bacterial counts from tissue homogenates of a spleen b lung c liver and d kidney on day 4 after cdi in mice fed diet or diet i3c.

when mice were placed on either semipurified diet or i3c-supple- mented diet i3c-fed ahr heterozygous mice demonstrated improved clinical outcomes as measured by increased survival and reduced cdad similar to that seen in the wild-type b6 mice.

