p  0.05 compared to the MP normal group p  0.05 compared to the MP HFD group n  8  p  0.05 compared to the MT normal group  p  0.05 compared to the MT HFD control group n  3.Both Es and EsM Ameliorated Enterogenous EndotoxinHFD and HFD alteration of gut microbiota identically induced a significant increase in fecal endotoxin level compared to the corresponding normal group while Es and EsM also identically resulted in evident diminution of the fecal endotoxin level compared to the corresponding HFD group Figure A.Figure 3.

Afterwards MT HFD group animals n  3 received microbiota collected from the HFD group MT Es group animals n  3 received microbiota obtained from Es treated group animals and normal MT group animals n  3 received microbiota obtained from normal group animals.

p  0.05 compared to the MP normal group  p  0.05 compared to the MP HFD group n  8  p  0.05 compared to the normal MT group  p  0.05 compared to the MT HFD group n  3.

p  0.05 compared to the MP normal group  p  0.05 compared to the MP HFD group n  8  p  0.05 compared to the MT normal group  p  0.05 compared to the MT HFD group n  3B The fecal acetic acid level was determined using the YL9100 HPLC system and an Aminex-87H column.

p  0.05  p  0.01 compared to the MP normal group  p  0.05 compared to the MP HFD group n  8  p  0.05  p  0.01 compared to the MT normal group  p  0.05 compared to the MT HFD group n  3.Gut Microbiota from Donor Evidently Influenced the Host Gut Microbial CommunityMore than 0.5 of family and genus in donor and recipient were selected for gut microbiota transplantation comparability checking Figure .

Consequently both HFD and HFD alteration of gut microbiota resulted in significantly increased FER compared to the corresponding normal group however Es and EsM did not change the HFD elevated FER.Table 2.

Rats in the MP HFD and MP Es group were given commercial HFD with the same schedule as the MP normal group.

Both Es and EsM also led to marked restoration of the fecal acetic acid level compared to the corresponding HFD group Figure B.Both Es and EsM Down-Regulated Gene Expression of Key Proinflammatory CytokinesHFD and HFD alteration of gut microbiota similarly resulted in significant up-regulation of the gene expression of MCP-1 and IL-1b compared to the corresponding normal group.

In the MP three types of gut microbiota from normal HFD or HFD together with Es treatment respectively were transplanted by oral gavage to 3-week HFD fed rats.

Similarly HFD feed for six weeks significantly increased serum TG level compared to the normal diet while Es treatment resulted in noticeably reduced serum TG level compared to the MP HFD group.

