administration of bar to hfd-fed mice increased their weights significantly a. the principal component analysis of caecal microbiota was performed based on the relative abundance of otus b. the composition of the microbiota differed significantly between lfd hfd and hfd  bar groups lfd vs. hfd dissimilarity index p  0.001 hfd vs. hfd  bar dissimilarity index p  0.01.the quantitative pcr showed that the frequency of clostridium leptum subgroup was higher in both hfd-fed and hfd  bar-fed mice than in lfd-fed mice and the frequency of bacteroides group was lower in hfd-fed mice than in lfd-fed mice.

male balbc mice were fed a low-fat diet lfd high-fat diet hfd or hfd with bar hfd  bar and then metabolic parameters caecal microbiota and metabolites were investigated.

colonized germ-free mice showed a reduction in adiposity by bar administration.energy expenditure was lower in hfd-fed mice and higher in hfd  bar-fed mice but the increments induced by administration of bar were not observed in antibiotic-treated mice.conclusions.

modulation of intestinal microbiota by bar could be a novel therapeutic approach for obesity.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.abbreviations bar bile acid binding resin otu operational taxonomic unit wat white adipose tissue.

we found that bar prevented obesity and increased energy expenditure in hfd-induced obesity in mice although the precise mechanism remains to be elucidated.therefore weinvestigated the effect of bar onintestinal microbiota and the role of microbiota in the prevention of obesity by bar.materials and methodsanimalsfour to 6-week-old male balbc mice and germ-free balbc mice were obtained from sankyo labo service tokyo japan.experimental designthe mice were fed a low-fat diet lfd ce2 10 fat clea japan japan hfd d12492 60 fat research diet usa.

for statistical analysis ibm spss statistics version 22 ibm japan japan was used.resultsbar altered intestinal microbiota and increased propionate production in the intestinesbalbc mice were fed an lfd hfd or hfd with bar hfd  bar for 4-6 weeks and then their caecal weights and microbiota were analyzed.

although the mechanism is yet to bediscussionwe demonstrated that administration of bar altered intesti- nal microbiota and fermentation and prevented fat accumu- lation through intestinal microbiota.the alteration of microbiota by an hfd in this study waselucidated altering intestinal microbiota by bar could be a novel therapeutic approach for obesity and dysbiosis and needs to be investigated in humans.supplementary data to this article can be found online at consistent with previous reports showing that an hfd increased clostridium leptum that belongs to the firmicutes and decreased bacteroides .

because we reported the reduction of intestinal bile acid pool by bar  the effect of bar on microbiota could be explained by the reduction of bile acids in the intestine.

however bar does not absorb bile acid specifi- cally and other molecules absorbed by bar might be involved in the action .

all authors partici- pated in data interpretation reviewed the manuscript and approved the final version.such as fatty acids could alter gastrointestinal motion leading to the alteration of microbiota by bar .the alterations in microbiota by bar were accompanied by increased propionate production.

open circles lfd filled circles hfd filled triangles hfd  bar n  9-20 per group lfd vs. hfd p  0.05 hfd vs. hfd  bar p  0.05. b weights of white adipose tissues of each group are shown mean - sem.

filled circles hfd filled triangles hfd  bar n  9-11 per group hfd vs. hfd  bar  p  0.003. e concentrations of short chain fatty acids were determined in caecal samples from hfd-fed and hfd  bar-fed germ-free and ex- germ free mice.

black boxes hfd hatched boxeshfd  bar n  8-9 per group nd not detected  p  0.01. f male balbc mice were fed the lfd hfd - hfd hfd  or hfd  bar for 5-6 weeks with or without antibiotic treatment and then o2 consumption and co2 production were measured in each group using metabolic cages.

bile acid binding resin bar absorbs intestinal bile acids and improves obesity and metabolic disorders but the precise mechanism remains to be clarified.

thus we investigated the effect of bar on intestinal microbiota and the role of microbiota in the prevention of obesity in high-fat diet-induced obesity in mice.procedures.

