to examine associations between stool microbiota composition and global metab- olite profiles metabolite pca ordinations were compared with otu pcoa ordinations using procrustes analysis implemented in the r package vegan.a knowledge-based approach was used to better identify microbially derived metabolites by predicting changes in stool metabolite profiles based on changes in stool microbiota composition.

cho carbohydrate-supplement group n  9 cntrl control group rations only n  5 pro protein-supplement group n  12.1.00.80.50.30.0unclassified verrucomicrobia tm7tenericutes spirochaetes proteobacteria lentisphaerae fusobacteria firmicutes euryarchaeota cyanobacteria bacteroidetes actinobacteriaand were generally lower post-stress than pre-stress q  0.10. changes in two of these metabolites arginine and cysteine were correlated with changes in sucralose excretion during stress table 2. changes in the concentrations of another 14 metabolites were also inversely correlated with changes in sucralose excretion table 2. scores on the first principal component from the ordination of stool metabolite data were associated with sucralose excretion 3 - se -0.05 - 0.01 p  0.01 indicating that the effect of stress on stool microbiota was associated with ip.procrustes analysis also demonstrated a significant associa- tion between the ordinations of plasma metabolites and stool microbiota composition m2  0.49 monte carlo p  0.001 fig.

results indicate similar clustering patterns between stool microbiota composition and stool metabolites and between stool microbiota composition and plasma metabo- lites.

observed changes in urinary concentrations of several metabolites potentially derived from the intestinal microbiota and an association of these changes with gastrointestinal symptomology and ip 44. although they speculated that changes in intestinal microbiota composition may have contributed to these findings the au- thors did not assess microbiota composition.the present study used a physically demanding militarytraining exercise as a model for elucidating the effects of physiological and metabolic stress on ip and intestinal micro- biota composition and activity and to identify associations between dietary intake ip inflammation and the intestinal microbiota.

5. greater microbiota diversity is generally considered indicative of a healthy intes- tinal ecosystem having been frequently associated with lower chronic disease risk 11 19. similarly species within the actinobacteria phylum including those belonging to the bifi- dobacterium and collinsella genera have favorable anti-in- flammatory and immunomodulatory effects that may protect the intestinal barrier during stress 2 42. bifidobacterium strains are included in multistrain probiotics that have demon- strated some although weak efficacy for favorably impacting ip in athletes 25 49. use of prebiotics such as oligofructose to increase bifidobacterium relative abundance has also been shown to promote intestinal barrier integrity in animal models 6. in contrast proteobacteria are endotoxin producers that have been linked to inflammatory bowel diseases and subclin- ical inflammation 19 27. sutterella a genus within the proteobacteria phylum has been shown to promote inflamma- tory bowel disease by inhibiting immunoglobulin a secretion 39. as such although findings are correlative and the study design precludes determination of causality the observed as- sociations between the pre-stress microbiota and changes in ip during stress are plausible and provide potential targets for further study.to our knowledge this study is the first to examine intestinalmicrobiota responses during military training and expands knowledge regarding the temporal effects of exercise and psychological stress on the microbiome which is largely lim- ited to animal studies at present 12 34. human studies have demonstrated that drastic changes in diet impact intestinal microbiota composition 13 41 by altering the availability of metabolic substrates for intestinal microbes 23. in contrast to these earlier reports our findings demonstrate alterations in microbiota composition that most likely were not solely attrib- utable to diet and were more pronounced than those commonly reported in human diet studies fig.

independent variables included in the regression model were those that were significantly correlated with changes in sucralose excretion and in- cluded dietary parameters protein intake change scores for inflam- mation markers il-6 and crp pre-stress stool microbiota char- acteristics shannon diversity and actinobacteria and proteobacteria relative abundances and change scores for stool metabolites linked to changes in microbiota composition changes cysteine and arginine.

blood and stool samples were collected before and after stress to measure inflammation stool microbiota and stool and plasma global metabolite profiles.

additionally no association between these variables and scores extracted from the first three principal components of the stool microbiota pcoa was detected.procrustes analysis demonstrated a significant association between the ordinations of stool metabolites and stool micro- biota composition m2  0.76 monte carlo p  0.001 fig.

c venn diagram of stool and plasma metabolites that were significantly altered during military training q  0.10. prediction models linked changes in stool microbiota composition to 69 of the metabolites found to be altered in stool 30 of which were also significantly altered in plasma.15 20 24 and possibly military personnel 29. although gastrointestinal symptoms were not assessed in the present study in the study of li et al.

associations between ip the pre-stress microbiota and microbiota metabolites suggest that targeting the intestinal microbiota could provide novel strategies for preserving ip during physiological stress.new  noteworthy military training a unique model for studying temporal dynamics of intestinal barrier and intestinal micro-address for reprint requests and other correspondence j. p. karl us army research inst.

secondary bile acids are recognized as important signaling molecules with functions that are thought to include promotion of gut barrier integrity 52. collectively these findings suggest that changes in intestinal microbiota composition and metabolism may im- pact ip during physiological stress by modulating the avail- ability of amino acid precursors critical to moderating inflam- mation and oxidative stress and of secondary bile acids.study strengths include the provision of diets of known composition providing a range of macronutrient intakes and the integration of physiological stool microbiota composition and metabolomics data.

4. in contrast mean concentra- tions of the benzoate metabolites 2-hydroxyhippurate -22 3-hyroxyhippurate -61 and 4-hyroxyhippurate -35were decreased q  0.10. mean concentrations of secondary bile acids in plasma demonstrated more variable responses glycolithocolate sulfate 21 glycohyocholate 6 taurolitho- cholate 3-sulfate 89 and taurocholenate sulfate 56 con- centrations increased while deoxycholate -66 ursodeoxycholate -63 and isoursodeoxycholate -51 concentrations decreasedq  0.10.associations between stool microbiota composition stool and plasma metabolites ip and inflammation.

6a indicating an association between stool metabolites and the stool microbiota.

additionally prediction models linked changes in stool microbiota composition to 69 of the metabo- lites found to be altered in stool see supplemental table s3.

c hierarchical complete-linkage cluster- ing of euclidean distances of operational taxo- nomic unit otu relative abundances mea- sured in stool collected before and after military training n  38. colored bars are data points representing the stool microbiota composition of an individual.

