a.p.department of clinical and experimental medicine section of paediatrics university of pisa pisa 56126italy national heart and lung institute imperial college london london sw3 6np uk royal holloway university of london school of biological sciences biomedical scienceslondon tw20 0ex uk department of life and reproduction sciences section of paediatrics university of verona verona 37124 italy school of molecular sciences the university of western australia perth wa 6009 australianational institute of health research collaboration for leadership in applied health research and care for nw london london sw10 9nh ukcorrespondence daniel.munblit08imperial.ac.uk tel.

future studies should be focused on maternal genotype human milk microbiome and diet influence on human milk immune composition and both short- and long-term health outcomes in the infant.keywords colostrum human milk immune modulators immunologically active molecules cytokines growth factors health outcomes immunological outcomesintroductionincreasing rates of allergyatopy are of great concern with children bearing the greatest burden of this increase .

hm immune components may influence immunological health outcomes but linear relationships between hm composition and subsequent health outcomes should be evaluated with care due to potential confounding.

1288 and the moscow institute of paediatrics and child health of the ministry of health of the russian federation russia approval no.

the most reliable information was available for eczema coughwheeze and food allergy at 6 months and common cold at 12 months these data were used as health outcomes for the statistical modelling.the following determinants of health outcomes were included into the models levels of growth factors in colostrum and mature human milk detectability of cytokines in colostrum and breast milk site of collection colostrum collection time maternal atopic status delivery type infant gender.

rates of maternal atopy parity and infant gender did not differ for health outcomes assessed tables   and .table 1. characteristics of study participants and health outcomes between sites of collection.characteristicsukrussiaitalyp-valuea pearson kh2 test has been used.

articleimmune components in human milk are associated with early infant immunological health outcomes a prospective three-country analysisdaniel munblit 123 marina treneva 34 diego g. peroni 35 silvia colicino 6 li yan chow 1shobana dissanayeke 7 alexander pampura 34 attilio l. boner 8 donna t. geddes 39 robert j. boyle 13 and john o. warner 1310department of paediatrics imperial college london london w2 1ny uk l.y.c.r.j.b.

sechenovfirst moscow state medical university of the ministry of health of the russian federation.

data from this study suggests that differences in the individual immune composition of hm may have an influence on early life infant health outcomes.

long-term disease and health outcomes have been associated with multiple factors but in particular maturation of the immune system and immune-mediated diseases have been linked to later metabolic disorders such as cardiovascular disease .

whilst there is evidence to suggest that the maternal environment in pregnancy has an impact on subsequent development of immune system in their offspring  early nutrition in the first two years of life a rapid period of infant growth and development is also believed to impact short- and long-term health.

further little is known about the immune composition's influence on short- and long-term health outcomes.it can be expected that hm composition may naturally change as a response to a number of environmental and genetic factors.

the authors suggested that tgfb found in the milk may play a role in homeostasis maintenance in the intestine regulating inflammation and subsequently promoting oral tolerance which may reduce the risk of allergy development.cytokines are one of the major classes of immune components in hm  but they are present in low concentrations therefore there is some doubt as to whether they have significant biological activity sufficient to modify health outcomes.

accumulated knowledge from animal model studies suggests that hgf may also play a role in airway hyper-responsiveness and airway remodeling in allergic asthma - which highlights potential importance of this immune active molecule for human milk research.we aimed to assess the impact of maternal and environmental factors in relation to colostrum and mature human milk immune active components composition and health outcomes at the age of six and twelve months.materials and methodsstudy setting eligibility criteria and ethicsthe investigations and sample collection have been conducted following ethical approval by ethics committees in three countries participating in the study west london rec 3 uk ref.

participant medical records were reviewed by study personnel to extract relevant health information which was not available from questionnaires prior to breast milk analysis.

