in contrast the abundance of the family clostridiaceae in the phylum firmicutes was lower in the kefir group 2.89 than in the control group 5.14.furthermore the phyla ascomycota 49.06 and 47.05 and basidiomycota 15.75 and 17.77 comprised the vast majority of the gut yeast flora among the mice of the kefir and control groups respectively c. the greatest increase in prevalence among classes in the phylum ascomycota was observed for the class saccharomycetes which contains the genus candida the major yeast of kefir 5.51 in the kefir group and 3.76 in the control group c. interestingly the proportion of the genus kluyveromyces derived from kefir in the total identified gut yeast was 1.51 in the kefir group whereas the control group had none.effects of kefir consumption on plasma lipid contents and plasma proinflammatory cytokine concentrationsmice in the kefir group exhibited significantly lower plasma levels of total cholesterol and ldl cholesterol than the control mice p.0019 and p.000084 respectively a. these data indicate that kefiradministration has a cholesterol-lowering effect in the hfd-induced obesity mouse model.there were no significant differences in the plasma concentrations of the proinflammatory cytokines il-1b and tnf-a between mice in the control and kefir groups pn.05 b. in contrast kefir-fed mice exhibited significantly lower plasma concentrations of il-6 than the control mice p.03 suggesting that kefir administration might ameliorate the systemic low-grade inflammation in hfd-fed mice.effects of kefir consumption on gene expression in adipose and hepatic tissuesto explore mechanisms by which kefir consumption affect inflammation and lipid metabolism in hfd-fed mice we evaluated the mrna expression levels of genes encoding proteins related to lipid oxidation ppara and aox lipogenesis acc srebp-c1 dgat and acs and inflammation and oxidative stress tnf-a mcp1 and sod2 as well as that of the gene encoding the adipocyte hormone leptin in epididymal adipose a and hepatic tissue b. notably compared to the control group the mice in the kefir group exhibited significant up-regulation of ppara and aox expression in both adipose and hepatic tissues however there were no significant changes in the expression of genes involved in lipogenesis a and b. these findings suggest that kefir consumption promoted lipid oxidation in hfd-fed mice leading to weight loss.

then experimental mice were randomly divided into two groups 10 mice each the kefir group and control group and the initial body weights were measured.

adipose tissues and livers of mice in the kefir group were significantly lower in weight and smaller than those of the control mice p.000009 and p.0196 respectively and fig.

feed efficiency or total weight gainedg of total diet consumed was lower 0.102 for the kefir fed mice than the control 0.126.effects of kefir consumption on liver histopathologyliver sections from mice administered kefir or milk are presented in .

the hepatocytes of the mice in the control group showed severe macrovascular accumulation of lipid droplets within the cytoplasm a and b and ballooning injury was observed around the central vein c. in contrast the hepatocytes of kefir-fed mice showed only mild accumulation of lipid droplets and no ballooningfig.

cv central vein.d and e. as such the histopathological lesion score for the mice in the kefir group was significantly lower than that of the control group p.002 f.effect of kefir consumption on intestinal microbiota and mycobiota targeted and untargeted community analysisthe gut microbiota and mycobiota of the mice administered kefir or milk were investigated by targeted group-specific qpcr and untargeted ngs community analysis and the results are shown in.

in addition we observed significant down-regulation of mcp1 in the adipose tissue of kefir-fed mice a. this suggests that the consumption of kefir partially alleviated the systemic low-grade inflammation associated with obesity.correlation between intestinal microbiota and host metabolic effectslastly we examined whether the observed changes in physiological characteristics were associated with changes in the intestinal microbiota of mice consuming kefir.

for example b6 mice fed bacteroides acidifaciens were less likely to gain weight than mice without b. acidifacienssupplementation .

available online at sciencedirectkefir alleviates obesity and hepatic steatosis in high-fat diet-fed mice by modulation of gut microbiota and mycobiota targeted and untargeted community analysis with correlation of biomarkersdong-hyeon kima hyunsook kimb dana jeonga il-byeong kanga jung-whan chona1 hong-seok kimakwang-young songa kun-ho seoaacenter for one health college of veterinary medicine konkuk university hwayang-dong gwangjin-gu seoul 05029 republic of koreabdepartment of food  nutrition college of human ecology hanyang university 222 wangsimni-ro seongdong-gu seoul 04763 republic of koreareceived 12 october 2016 received in revised form 30 december 2016 accepted 16 february 2017abstractkefir is a probiotic beverage containing over 50 species of lactic acid bacteria and yeast.

hfd-fed c57bl6 mice were orally administrated either kefir or milk control once a day for 12 weeks and body and organ weight fecal microbiota and mycobiota histopathology blood cholesterol and cytokines and gene expressions were analyzed.

compared to the control mice in the kefir group exhibited a significantly lower body weight 34.18 g vs. 40.24 g p0.00004 and histopathological liver lesion score 1.13 vs. 3.25 p0.002.

remarkably the kefir-fed mice also harbored more lactobacilluslactococcus 7.01 vs. 6.32 log cfug total yeast 6.07 vs. 5.01 log cfug and candida 5.56 vs. 3.88 log cfug.

these data suggest that kefir consumption modulates gut microbiota and mycobiota in hfd-fed mice which prevents obesity and nafld via promoting fatty acid oxidation.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.keywords kefir obesity fatty liver disease intestinal microbiota intestinal mycobiota fatty acid oxidationintroductionobesity characterized by the accumulation of excess adipose tissue increases the risk for developing certain chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes fatty liver diseases heart disease and some cancers .

our previous study demonstrated that the intestinal yeast population in balbc mice increased after consuming kefir for 3 weeks but the health benefits and related mechanisms were not investigated .

furthermore although it is generally accepted that the consumption of probiotic dairy foods including kefir is beneficial for host health the effects of kefir on obesity hepatic steatosis and related metabolic syndrome character- istics due to high-fat diet hfd-induced obesity have yet to be addressed.the aims of this study were a to evaluate the effects of kefir on obesity and nafld in a b6-diet-induced obese dio mouse model c57bl6 mice fed a 60 hfd and b to elucidate the mechanisms underlying these beneficial health effects by assessing and relating the composition of the intestinal microbiota including changes in yeast populations to the modulation of the expression of genes related to lipid metabolism as well as changes in plasma cholesterol and proinflammatory cytokine concentrations and hepatic histopathology.materials and methodskefir preparationa total of 50 g of viable kefir grain sensorgen co. seoul korea was used to inoculate 500-ml sterilized milk seoul milk inc. seoul korea and cultured at 25 degc for 24 h. at the end of the fermentation process the grain and milk were separated using a sterilized plastic filter 2-mm pore size .

