while some species will switch their metabolism to utilize secondary nutrients others opt to take a more direct approach and directly kill their competitors by releasing chemical compounds or by secreting effectors via specific secretion systems  such as the type vi secretion system t6ss.t6sss are contact-dependent secretion machineries capable of directly injecting toxins into other bacteria as well as eukaryotic cells .

pearlst6ss the bacterial fight club in the host gutthibault g. sana kyler a. lugo denise m. monackdepartment of microbiology and immunology stanford university school of medicine stanford california united states of america introductionthe mammalian gut is home to a densely populated community of microorganisms that not only provide their host with nutritional benefits but also offer protection against foreign patho- gens .

in this short article we discuss recent advances in our understanding of how commensal intestinal microbiota and enteric bacterial pathogens use t6ss-mediated antibacterial activity to influ-ence host health and whether manipulating the t6ss could be used for potential therapies inopen accesscitation sana tg lugo ka monack dm 2017 t6ss the bacterial fight club in the host gut.

altogether t6sss in commensal bac- teria play an important role in defense against invading pathogens and might be one major player dictating microbial composition in the host gut therefore greatly influencing host health.are t6sss utilized by enteric pathogens in the gutt6sss are not limited to commensal bacteria.

consistent with these findings an intact t6ss is required for v. cholerae colonization of the guts of infant rabbits .to determine whether a t6ss-dependent anticommensal activity is required for the pa- thogen to effectively colonize and proliferate in the host gut we recently used a salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium mouse model and found s. typhimurium kills a commensal bacterium klebsiella oxytoca in vitro and in the host gut in a t6ss-dependent manner .

the funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.the future.what is the t6ss and how does it functionto manipulate and control their local environment bacteria often secrete proteins and effec- tors into the surrounding extracellular medium or directly into target cells using complex nanomachines called secretion systems.

although the first data describing secreted compo- nents of t6ss hcp's can be found as early as 1996  the secretion system was named t6ss by john mekalanos's group in 2006 for a review see  and was initially thought to simplytarget eukaryotic cells.

while it is still too early to fully understand why salmonella might target k. oxytoca recent studies have found klebsiella is capable of me- tabolizing sugars that are similar to the sugars utilized by salmonella in the guts of mice the t6ss-mediated bacterial warfare in the host gut.

a commensal bacteriodes fragilis bacteria in blue target and kill enterotoxigenic b. fragilis in yellow in a t6ss-dependent manner shown as crossbows providing colonization resistance to the host.

b salmonella typhimurium in yellow uses its t6ss crossbow to kill klebsiella oxytoca in blue a potential nutritional competitor allowing salmonella to expand in the host gut.

this engineered commensal would therefore become immune to the pathogen's t6ss attack and become a direct competitor for the pathogen thus providing the host with colonization resistance to the pathogen .is there a secret bacterial warfare in the gutin a way yes there is.

while much is yet to be discovered t6sss provide their host with protection against invading pathogens and may be responsible for dictating resident microbiota compositions.

onengineering probiotic bacteria to fight enteric pathogens commensal bacteria in blue could be genetically engineered depicted with a syringe to be resistant to a pathogen's t6ss attack by providing them with genes encoding an antitoxin depicted as a light blue shield or by providing them with their own t6ss shown as a light blue crossbow that specifically targets the pathogen in yellow.the other hand pathogens have figured out how to breach this defense mechanism leading to their successful colonization of the mammalian gut.based on our current knowledge the bacterial warfare in the gut does not appear to cause adverse effects such as inflammation in the gut keeping this war a secret from the host.

1971 693405-11.green er mecsas j. bacterial secretion systems an overview.

aim load fire the type vi secretion system a bacterial nanoweapon.

