Thus Se deficiency in cattle caused by low Se intake can be mitigated by increasing the Se concen- trations in hay fed to cattle.Dietary glutamine supplementation has been shown to regulate intestinal immunity for example though enhancement of secretory IgA production and studies in mice show that glu- tamine supplementation acts in part by altering the intestinal bacterial community  .

Plant samples were pre- pared for Se analysis as previously described  and Se determined using inductively coupled argon plasma emission spectroscopy ICP-MS ELAN 6000 Perkin Elmer Shelton CT. Quantification of Se was performed by the standard addition method using a 4-point standard curve.

Fixed effects in the model were Se application rate 0 45.0 and 89.9 g Seha gender baseline WB-Se as linear covari- ate time after 2 4 6 and 8 weeks of feeding Se enriched hay and the interaction between Se application rate and time.

Calculated Se intake from dietary sources was 3.0 15.6 and 32.2 mg Seheadday for calves consuming alfalfa hay with Se concentrations of 0.34 to 2.42 and 5.17 mg Sekg dry matter respectively.

The beneficial effects of Se supplementation may result from selenoproteins converting harmful ROS to less reactive molecules as well as influencing the expression of redox-regulated genes .In Se-deficient areas several means of Se supplementation are available e.g.

Our goal was to apply this Se-supplementation strategy to weaned beef calves to optimize cattle health.Conversely Se toxicity and livestock death can occur when cattle consume excessive amounts of Se in their diet.

The majority of published experimental work on selenosis in ruminants reviewed in  is based on studies using inorganic forms of Se such as sodium selenate or sodium selenite whereas the predominant chemical form of Se in forage is selenomethionine .

Third-cutting alfalfa hay was harvested 40 days after Se application and then analyzed for nutrient and Se content.

A quality-control sample in similar matrix was analyzed after every 5 sam- ples and analysis was considered acceptable if the Se concentration of the quality-control sam- ple fell within - 5 of the standardreference value for the quality control.Blood collection for selenium analysesBlood samples were collected from the jugular vein of weaned beef calves at baseline and after 2 4 6 and 8 weeks of alfalfa hay consumption into evacuated EDTA tubes 2 mL final EDTA Alfalfa and grass hay nutrient compositions dry matter basis1-3.1Alfalfa hay samples were submitted to Cumberland Analytical Services Maugansville MD for routine nutrient analysis and to Utah Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory Logan UT for Se analysis.2Alfalfa hay DM determination was completed at a temperature of 105C for 12 to 14 h in a forced draught oven.

and Se determined using inductively coupled argon plasma emissionspectroscopy ICP-MS ELAN 6000 Perkin Elmer Shelton CT.concentration 2 gL Becton Dickinson Franklin Lakes NJ and stored on ice until they were frozen at -20C to measure whole blood Se WB-Se concentrations.

