using this analysis we observed changes in the bacterial community structure reflecting a transformation from typical fecal microbiota to typical compost microbiota through thermophilic composting and an extended curing phase.materials and methodssampling locationstwo of soil's composting facilities were sampled in haiti port-au-prince paup 1836'44.40n 7220'17.78w and cap-haitien cap-h 1940'38.20n 7206'49.07w at various times during fall 2013 through summer 2014. the field collections did not require permits or permissions they are part of the regular working procedures for soil.

the mix- ture was typically collected in approximately 20 l or 60 l containers for up to two weeks prior to being transported to the composting site where it was added to 12 cubic m three-walled composting bins built from shipping pallets stuffed with large pieces of sugarcane bagasse all sitting on layers of sugarcane bagasse on compacted soil as detailed by berendes et al.

the composting process is considered finished and material ready for distribution when temperatures drop to ambient- generally six to nine months post pile initiation.the composting facility at cap-h was similar to that at paup except that crushed peanut shells were used in addition to bagasse as cover material in the toilets however bagasse was still used exclusively for bulking material at the compost site and the four-walled bins were sit- uated on concrete slabs.

subsequently otu classified within each species- level taxon were then grouped according to their trends throughout the composting process and intensity ranges intensities for otu so grouped were then averaged and presented in bar charts as supplemental tables.the microarray data are available at in .resultsfate of human-associated bacteria during thermophilic compostinga primary goal of this study was to assess the fate of human fecal bacteria through the process of thermophilic composting.

presents the subset of qin and colleagues' 'com- mon core' gut bacteria  that were present at any composting stage and shows a decline to below detection for almost all taxa through the thermophilic composting process.

's common core  or by all bucket sample otu sourcetracker the data show a substantial decline throughout the composting process at paup and cap-h with only a slight rebound at cap-h. finstein and colleagues  cautioned having too great a decline in the microbial community at the start of the composting process leaves an abundance of readily accessible nutrients available for rapid regrowth when conditions become more favorable which may have been what caused the apparent rebound observed in cap-h samples.

as indi- cator organisms may over-estimate total fecal organism populations.while the current study is the only study to date we are aware of to track the bacterial com- munity from raw fecal material throughout a thermophilic composting process other studies that tracked bacterial changes during sewage sludge composting show some similarities.

see the for a more in-depth discussion of bacterial community changes throughout the composting process.composting facility differenceswhile this study was not specifically aimed at comparing the two composting facilities the differ- ences in pile construction and maintenance likely contributed to differences observed in the degree of organism reduction during the thermophilic stage at cap-haitien compared to port- au-prince.

research articlebacterial community structure transformed after thermophilically composting human waste in haitiyvette m. piceno1 gabrielle pecora-black2 sasha kramer3 monika roy3 francinec.

2017 bacterial community structure transformed after thermophilically composting human waste in haiti.

aerobic thermo- philic composting of sewage sludge has been shown to reduce populations of opportunisti- cally pathogenic bacteria and to inactivate both ascaris eggs and culturable escherichia coli in raw waste but there is still a question about the fate of most fecal bacteria when raw material is composted directly.

this study undertook a comprehensive microbial community analysis of composting material at various stages collected over 6 months at two compost- ing facilities in haiti.

thermophilic composting altered the bacterial community structure of the starting material.

this community dna-based assessment of the fate of human fecal microbiota during thermophilic composting will help optimize this process as a sanitation solution in areas where infrastructure and resources are limited.introductionrecycling human waste for beneficial use has been practiced since ancient times  but con- cerns related to disease transmission and how to handle high-density urban living situationsfunders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.brought about the use of infrastructure-intensive wastewater treatment plants throughout the industrialized world requiring copious amounts of water for handling human waste.

one organization that was positioned to help was sustainable organic integrated livelihoods soil a research and development nonprofit focused on recycling the nutrients in human waste and returning them to the soil through the process of thermophilic composting .

