campylobacter je juni a microaerophilic bacterium is well1veterinary science division bacteriology branch agri-food and biosciences institute belfast united kingdom.2london school of hygiene and tropical medicine london united kingdom.3university of bucharest icub bucharest romania.4school of animal science and biotechnology banat university of animal sciences and veterinary medicine-king michael i of romania timisoara romania.5sustainable agri-food sciences division agriculture branch agri-food and biosciences institute hillsborough united kingdom.these authors contributed equally as joint first authors.341known for its ability to cause severe gastroenteritis and life- threatening diseases in humans and is considered a com- mensal in poultry crushell et al.

plant- derived antimicrobials also known as pdas are a suitable alternative to antibiotics as they do not cause resistance and side effects  juneja et al.

its mechanism of ac- tion is not well studied lambert et al.

2001 however it has been suggested that carvacrol disintegrates the outer mem- brane of pathogenic bacteria increases the permeability to atp and depolarizes the membranes xu et al.

2008. ad- ditional effects also show that it has a beneficial effect against chemically induced colon carcinogenesis in rats sivaranjani et al.

has been shown at concentrations of 7.8-800 lgml aslim and yucel 2008 but the direct effect on virulence has only been described in int-407 cells and using c. jejuni 108 a human isolate van alphen et al.

in broilers cecum has gained increasing interest ozogul et al.

2015. meat quality can benefit from the inclusion of oregano oil in broiler diets and it has been reported that carvacrol can inhibit lipid oxi- dation in meat at concentrations of 50-100 mgkg feed luna et al.

2010. however the industry is reluctant in relation to its applicability due to the fact that the literature lacks in- formation in this area lillehoj et al.

2011. recent data show that the inclusion of encapsulated carvacrol thymol and limonene up to 100 mgkg can improve performance as well as apparent ileal digestibility of nutrients in broilers hafeez et al.

the 16s ribosomal primers used were v3 tcgtcg gcagcgtcagatgtgtataagagacagcctacgggnggcwgcag and v4 gtctcgtgggctcggagatgtgtataagagacaggactachvgggtatctaatcc klindworth et al.

initial data quality was assessed in fastqc s a 2010. data were uploaded onto basespace and analyzed by using the qiime pre- processing and visualization apps caporaso et al.

the pcrs were set by using sybr green master mix applied biosystems and bacterial 16s group-specific primers all lactobacillus forward 5c-agggtgaagt cgtaacaagtagcc-3c and all lactobacillus reverse 5c- ccaccttcctccggtyygtca-3c.mucin mrna analysisthe rt-pcr was carried out as previously described smirnov et al.

images were acquired by using a leica dfc300x camera and the im50 imaging software pircalabioru et al.

2016.biofilm assaythe biofilm assay was performed as previously described reuter et al.

