for the other tested strains the bacterial growth in the medium containing s. rebaudiana fos was significant p  0.05 lower than the medium containing prebiotic control.the inulin molecules isolated from s. rebaudiana stems was evaluated to be not a suitable energy source neither for bifidobac- teria nor for lactobacilli because no statistically significant increase p  0.05 in optical density of the medium containing this sugar source compared to the basal medium without sugar was detected .the prebiotic control oraftir p95 was the most suitable for comparison with fos extracts of s. rebaudiana stems because both are polysaccharides with similar chemical structure and degree of polymerization that provide more similar fermentation parame- ters unlike the wilkins chalgren broth wcb where glucose mole- cules are used as carbon source this medium it is easily fermented and it is not a selective medium.

1h nmr spectra 500.0 mhz d2o at 298 k of the a inulin and b fructo-oligosaccharides from s. rebaudiana stems.table 11h chemical shifts d of inulin standard oraftir gr fos oraftir p95 standard inulin and fructo-oligosaccharides fos from s. rebaudiana stems chemical shifts d of sucrose observed in the fos from s. rebaudiana stems.pounds respectively.

the average increases in the growth of the bifidobacteria and lac- tobacilli strains were 2.28-fold and 1.7-fold respectively.among the tested bifidobacteria the strain b. bifidum ccdm 559 showed better capacity to fermente fos from s. rebaudiana and in this case was detected even better growth in the medium contain- ing s. rebaudiana fos than in the medium with oraftir p95 a com- mercial prebiotic product containing fos from chicory.from lactobacilli group the strain l. gasseri phm-7e1 was eval- uated to utilize fos from s. rebaudiana stems most efficiently where the highest increase in optical density after 24 h incubationfig.

4. heteronuclear single quantum correlation hsqc of the fructo-oligosaccharides from s. rebaudiana stems.table 2fermentability of inulin and fructo-oligosaccharides fos from s. rebaudiana stems by bifidobacteria and lactobacilli strains.bacterial strainsinulinbacterial density change in a540data are expressed as increase in turbidity of the bacterial suspension estimated from the increase in absorbance a540 during 24 h of incubation values are means from triplicate determination - standard deviation sd.oraftir p95 - commercial prebiotic fos positive control wch - wilkins-chalgren broth positive control bm - basal medium without sugar negative control.abcdefdata in columns with different superscripts differ p  0.05.ey-psdata in lines with different superscripts differ p  0.05.the commercial fos 100 in comparison with fos extract from s. rebaudiana 60. therefore the best prebiotic effect observed for the commercial fos can be justified by the industrial process of this product that results in a higher purity and high carbohydrate content.the lactobacilli and bifidobacteria populations play a key role in bowel function in health and well-being.

the objective of the present study was to isolate and character- ize fructans inulin and fructo-oligosaccharides from s. rebaudiana stems as well as evaluate the prebiotic activity of these molecules in vitro with the propose of obtaining products of commercialinterest from waste generated by the sweetener industry.materials and methodsmaterialsthe s. rebaudiana stems were obtained from field cultivar of the iguatemi research station located at 230200sl 520040wl and alti- tude of 506 m of the state university of maringa.

the chemical characteri- zation of the samples by gc-ms nmr and off-line esi-ms showed that it was possible to obtain inulin molecules from the s. rebaudiana stems with a degree of polymerization dp of 12 and fos with a dp  6. the in vitro prebiotic assay of these molecules indicates a strain specificity in fermentation capac- ity of fructans as substrate.

the difference in the degree of polymerization dp of these molecules plays a key role in the functionalities of fructans resulting in different technological and nutritional properties .inulin molecules are used as fat substitutes and texture agents  while fos molecules are used as a low- calorie sugar replacement 1-2 kcal g-1  .

as example the ability to ferment fructan molecules by certain bacterial strains is related to the presence of the b-fructofuranosidase an inulinase responsi- ble for the hydrolysis of fructan chain in terminal position b-2 1 .in this study fos molecules with dp  6 were better used as substrate by probiotic strains than inulin molecules dp  12 both isolated from the same source.

1. gc-ms chromatogram tic of oxime-silylated derivatives a inulin and from s. rebaudiana stems b fructo-oligosaccharides from s. rebaudiana stems c fructose standard d glucose standard.the correlation map hmbc  showed the occurrence of a cross-peak between h-1 and c-2 and the concomitant absence of correlations between c-2 and h-6 suggests a b-21 linkage between fructosyl residues.

the integrals of the protons were calculated by the mestre nova 6.1 software package mestrelab research s. l. 2010.electrospray ionization mass spectrometric analysis of fosthe fos molecules were dissolved in milli-q water 1 mgml and an aliquot of 250 ll of fos was added to 250 ll of acetonitrile.

the use of blends of short- and long- chain fructans which are selectively metabolized in the proximal and distal colon respectively enhances the fermentative and pre- biotic effects of these molecules  .the obtaining of two products inulin and fos with different industrial applications from the same source s. rebaudiana stems is a low cost option for commercial extraction from industrial waste.inulin characterizationin the monosaccharide composition analysis by gc-ms the peaks were identified according to retention time in comparison with fructose c and glucose d standards the frag- mentation profile of the mass spectra of oxime-silylated deriva- tives fig.

quantitative analysis by gc-ms showed a higher content of fructose 32 than glucose 2.6. the dp calculated for inulin obtained from s. rebaudiana stems by gc-ms was 12.in the nmr analysis of inulin molecules the h10 signal of termi- nal glucose was observed at low intensity in the anomeric region of the 1h nmr spectrum a at d 5.45 1h d j  3.8 hz.

these kinds of interactions are obviously not reflected in in vitro studies.the fos molecules isolated from s. rebaudiana stems showed a chemical profile and degree of polymerization similar to commer- cial fos oraftir p95.

fos molecules with a low dp are preferably fermented by beneficial micro- biota than inulin molecules with higher dp.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionstevia rebaudiana bertoni is a perennial herb of the asteraceae family and is native from south america.

fructo-oligosaccharides are smaller molecules with a dp  9 and inulin has dp ranging from 10 to 65 fructose units but the 0308-8146c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.most common are molecules with dp between 12 and 15  .these compounds are considered a functional food ingredient that can be used as a dietary fiber and prebiotic  .

