moreover it is likely that a high branched structure would lead to a higher amount of bcfas.in contrast to scfas bcfas have been associated with undesirable protein fermentation leading to many metabolites that are potentially toxic to the host and associated with carcinogenic effects in the colon.however in batch in vitro fermentation systems such as that employed in this study high bcfa production can also result from higher total metabolic activity of the microbiota.because amg also resulted in high butyrate production which arises from carbohydrate fermenta- tion and not protein fermentation it appeared that the high bcfas arising from the amg-treated starch were due to higher metabolic activity and not the lack of carbohydrate substrate.hence modifications induced by enzymatic treatment of starch granules had a significant effect on in vitro digestion and the fermentation pattern.

other studies have reported that enzymatic modification of starches alters chain length branch density and crystalline structure.those studies confirmed the morpho-received april 8 2017revisedmay 26 2017accepted may 29 2017published may 29 2017c 2017 american chemical society4651doi figure 1. flow diagram for in vitro digestion and fermentation of starch samples.effects.in vitro fermentation and scfa production have been useful to estimate the impact of dietary carbohydrates on human health.-however while several studies have been reported on the fermentation properties of resistant starches no studies have been reported on the susceptibility of structurally modified starches to be fermented by gut bacteria.

furthermore in vitro fermentations allow for quantitative measurement of metabo- lites produced by the microbiota upon fermentation of specific substrates which have importance in the health of the host.-the most important end products of fermentation are short-chain fatty acids scfas principally acetate propionate and butyrate and branched-chain fatty acids bcfas that are then absorbed and metabolized by the host.

scfas are produced mainly from carbohydrate fermentation and have health benefits whereas bcfas are a result of proteolytic fermentation and may have deleteriousgranule which led to small pores on the surface with a simultaneous release of oligosaccharides and production of cyclodextrins.

the digestion of this cgtase-nw starch was eventable 1. effects the interaction of the type of enzyme washedunwashed and gelatinization in fecal fermentation metabolites and total starch after fecal fermentationa p  0.05  p  0.01 and  p  0.001.figure 3. total scfas and individual scfas butyrate propionate and acetate produced during fermentation of enzymatically modified samples that had been subjected to in vitro digestion  native  cgtase  am and  amg.

an adequate carbohydrate supply promotes the growth of beneficial saccharolytic members of the microbiota such as roseburia eubacterium rectale and ruminococcus bromii that otherwise are outcompeted by more resilient but less beneficial genera such as alistipes bilophila and bacteroides.roseburia and e. rectale are especially important butyrate producers in the gut microbiota.butyric-acid-rich fermentations are generally observed with some types of starch that escape digestion in the small intestine.a recent study conducted by dan et al.showed that in vivo colonic fermentation of unripe banana starch resulted in high butyrate production when compared to the control diet also showing a good correlation between in vitro and in vivo fermentation.

these structural features could explain the higher production of scfas as a result of higher fermentable starch when modified with amg.the fermentation plots of bcfas released were significantly different for non-gelatinized and gelatinized samples .figure 4. total bcfas produced during fermentation of enzymatically modified samples without hydrolysis products that had been subjected to in vitro digestion previously a non-gelatinized or b gelatinized  native  cgtase  am and  amg.

2016 7 1805-1813.yang j. rose d. j. long term dietary pattern of fecal donor correlates with butyrate production and markers of protein fermentation during in vitro fecal fermentation.

pubs.acs.orgjafcenzymatic modification of corn starch influences human fecal fermentation profilesangela duradevin j. rose and cristina m. rosellinstitute of agrochemistry and food technology iata spanish national research council csic avenida agustin escardino 7 46980 paterna valencia spaindepartment of food science and technology university of nebraskalincoln 268 food innovation center lincoln nebraska 68588-6205 united statesintroductionenzymes play important roles in many industrial applicationsand can be considered processing aids to improve food quality attributes.

in addition in vitro fecal fermentation coupled to in vitro digestion can provide information about how dietary components such as resistant starch are metabolized by gut bacteria.

in vitro fermentation tests provide an insightful opportunity to study the function ofthe microbiota i.e.

the objective of this research was to determine the impact of structural modification of starch granules on the in vitro digestion and fermentation.

digestion assays were run in triplicate.in vitro fermentation.

in vitro fecal fermentation was performed according to the method described by arcila et al.

in short 15 mg of digested freeze-dried material was suspended in 1 ml of sterile fermentation medium consisting of per liter peptone 2 g bp1420-100 fisher scientific pittsburgh pa u.s.a. yeast extract 2 g cas registry number 8013-01-2 alfa aesar ward hill ma u.s.a. bile salts 0.5 g s71919-1 fisher science hannover park il u.s.a. nahco3 2 g nacl 0.1 g k2hpo4 0.08 g mgso47h2o 0.01 g cacl26h2o0.01 g l-cysteine hydrochloride 0.5 g cas registry number 52- 89-1 sigma hemin 50 mg cas registry number 16009-13-5 sigma tween 80 2 ml p8074 vitamin k 10 ml cas registry number 84-80-0 sigma and 0.025 wv resazurin solution 4 ml cas registry number 62758-13-8 sigma hydrated and placed in the anaerobic hood overnight.fresh fecal samples were collected from three healthy individuals with no record of gastrointestinal abnormalities or antibiotic administration in the last 6 months.

