combination of lactobacillus acidophilus ncfm with different carbohydrates revealed potential bacterial determinants of synbiotic interactions including stimulation of adhesion.c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.introduction corresponding author.e-mail address b. svensson.lactobacillus acidophilus ncfm is a probiotic gram-positive lactic acid-producing bacterium isolated from a human source in the 1970s and since used extensively in foods and dietary supplements .1874-3919c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.h.u.

the fact that adhesion of l. acidophilus ncfm to mucin was unaltered when mucin was present during growth may stem from that mucin glycoproteins in the culture medium bind di- rectly to the bacterial surface thereby preventing subsequent bacterial adhesion to the mucin layer as found previously in case of lactobacillus reuteri strains .although l. acidophilus ncfm does not utilize mucin as carbon source  growth increased significantly when glucose was supple- mented with mucin fig.

the latter two proteins were however found to decrease in abundance by mucin-supplemented growth of l. acidophilus ncfm in the present study thus we so far only identified coherence with previous studies in the expression and cell adhesive abilities for pk and fructose- bisphosphate aldolase.comparing whole-cell and surface proteomes of l. acidophilus ncfm grown on cellobiose identified that phosphate starvation induc- ible protein stress-related and gapdh underwent similar abundance changes - increased and decreased respectively.

acidophilus ncfm ncfm 1.50 x 1010 cfug dupont usa inc. madison us was grown aerobically without shaking at 37 degc in batch cultures 50 ml in semisynthetic lactic acid bacteria medium labsem containing 1 fos sigma-aldrich gos polydextrose both dupont melibiose fluka lactulose sigma-aldrich cellobiose sigma-aldrich isomaltulose palatinose sigma-aldrich or trehalose sigma-aldrich and the reference glucose sigma-aldrich.

lyngby denmarka r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 3 march 2017received in revised form 25 april 2017accepted 16 may 2017available online 19 may 2017keywordsadhesionlactobacillus acidophilus ncfm mucinprebiotics subproteomesa b s t r a c t adhesion to intestinal mucosa is a crucial property for probiotic bacteria.

molecular events connected with ad- hesion and surface proteome changes were investigated for the probiotic lactobacillus acidophilus ncfm cultured with established or emerging prebiotic carbohydrates as carbon source and in the presence of mucin the glyco- protein of the epithelial mucus layer.

surface proteome of cellobiose- compared to glucose-grown l. acidophilus ncfm had phosphate starvation inducible protein stress-related thermostable pullulanase and elongation factor g increasing 4.4-2.4 fold while gapdh elongation factor ts and pyruvate ki- nase were reduced by 2.0-1.5 fold in relative abundance.

addition of recombinant l. acidophilus ncfm elongation factor g and pyruvate kinase to a coated mucin layer significantly suppressed subsequent adhesion of the bacte- rium.biological significance human diet is important for intestinal health and food components especially non-digest- ible carbohydrates can beneficially modify the microbiota.

in the present study effects of emerging and established prebiotic carbohydrates on the probiotic potential of lactobacillus acidophilus ncfm were investigat- ed by testing adhesion to a mucin layer and intestinal cells and comparing this with changes in abundancy of sur- face proteins thought to be important for host interactions.

previously the surface proteome of s-layer associated pro- teins was characterized for l. acidophilus ncfm using 1d sds-page with lc-msms protein identification .

acidophilus ncfm were compared by 2de-based proteomics for cultures grown on raffinose or glucose as carbon source .

the present study focuses on mo- lecular interactions associated with i adhesion of l. acidophilus ncfm grown in the presence of mucin and different carbon sources ii the ef- fects of mucin-supplementation to the growth and growth on cellobiose on the surface proteome and iii roles of elongation factor g and pyru- vate kinase in the adhesion.methodsgrowth conditionsl.

the wells were washed thrice with pbs followed by analysis of glucose-grown l. acidophilus ncfm adhesion see .

adhesion in the absence of recombinant proteins was used as con- trol and incubation of coated mucin with bsa 1 mgml served as neg- ative control .resultsbacterial growth on different carbon sourcesgrowth of l. acidophilus ncfm with lactulose cellobiose melibiose palatinose or polydextrose decreased significantly compared to glucose as carbon source judged from od600 at early stationary phase fig.

contrarily trehalose and mucin in combination with glucoseenhanced growth of l. acidophilus ncfm by 1.4- and 1.5-fold respectively.bacterial adhesion to mucin and ht-29 cellsbacteria grown on cellobiose and polydextrose showed 4.1- and 5.2- fold p  0.05 and 2.6- and 2.3-fold p  0.05 greater adhesion to coat- ed mucin and ht-29 cells than control glucose grown bacteria  respectively.

