coli colonization suggesting alter- nate microbial-mediated mechanisms forimmunity 46 june 20 2017 published by elsevier inc. 977immunitypreviewsfigure 1. a microbiota community that promotes ifn-g production suppresses salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium tissue invasion and disease left comparing s. typhirium s. tm disease severity in genetically identical mice with differing microbiota communities revealed that communities that induce th1 cell th17 cell il-17 and ifn-g production reduce salmonella s. tm tissue invasion and disease.right transferring small communities of cultured bacteria from the resistant spf2 community red to mice harboring the sensitive spf1 community blue recapitulates this immune response and ameliorates salmonella invasion.that the communities formed in spf2 were dominant.

experiments in mice expressing fluorescently tagged il-17a and ifn-g enabled the authors to identify both innate and cd4 t cells t helper 17 th17 and th1 cells as the sources of il-17a and ifn-g in spf2-colonized mice .

in a recent issue of cell host  microbe report the identification of specific gut bacteria that protect from salmonella infection by priming host ifn-g responses.resident microbes play a crucial part in the battle against pathogenic infection.

ifn-g was required for spf2 resistance ifn-g-deficient mice colonized with spf1 or spf2 were equally susceptible to s. typhimurium.

they cultured two pools of different spf2 bacteria that contained 11 or 7 specific bacteria and transferred each pool into susceptible spf1 animals 4 weeks before infection.

measure- ment of intestinal cytokine levels revealed that amounts of interleukin-17a il-17a and ifn-g were significantly higher in spf2 mice either before or shortly afters.

these findings underscore the importance of cultivating intestinal bacteria and per- forming functional experiments to deter- mine which organisms are responsible for specific phenotypes.further work will be needed to identify which specific bacteria or groups of bacte- ria are required for resistance to salmonella and whether these same bacteria can pro- tect from other gastrointestinal pathogens.

only five operational taxonomic units otus differentiating spf1 and spf2 were main- tained after both streptomycin and ampi- cillin treatments indicating that either these differentiating microbiota members were responsible for s. typhimurium resis- tance or differences in the pre-antibiotic microbial communities were regulating resistance.interestingly s. typhimurium resistance could be transferred from spf2 to spf1 through co-housing or fecal transfer 4 weeks before infection suggesting thattected in an ifn-g-dependent manner.

almost three decades ago it was demonstrated that neutralization of ifn-g rendered an animal unable to clear a sub-lethal challenge of s. typhimurium whereas the addition of exogenous ifn-g induced more rapid anti-bacterial defense aeuraeur.

since then a number of studies have demonstrated the importance of ifn-g to host health during salmonella infection.

surprisingly both pools of bacteria increased ifn-g production and decreased s. typhimurium tissue invasion and disease.

although all mice eventually suc- cumbed to the infection there was signifi- cant variation in the length of survival and amount of weight loss between the different groups.

animals from the helm- holtz facility called spf 1 were most sen- sitive to s. typhimurium infection whereas the animals derived from charles river spf 2 and janvier spf 3 were the most resistant the mice from the other facilities displayed intermediate susceptibility.

one caveat of this infection model is that it re-quires streptomycin treatment before sal- monella infection for disease induction which can lead to changes in the composi- tion of the microbiota.

healthy animals had a more taxonomically diverse commu- nity before infection however this diver- sity was lost after the streptomycin treat- ment used to prepare the mice fors.

