The reaction mix was subjected to thermal cycling CFX96 Real-time Detection System BioRad Laboratories CA at 95C for 2 min followed by 45 two-step cycles of 94C for 5 s and 60C for 30 s. The Candidatus R. amblyommii copy number was estimated using the standard curve generated from predetermined rompB DNA concentrations.PCR detection of Piroplasma speciesPiroplasma spp.

Editor Rosemary C. Sang The Kenya Medical Research Institute KEMRI KENYAReceived January 24 2017Accepted June 6 2017Published June 26 2017Copyright c 2017 Karim et al.

The bacterial diversity across these tick species was assessed by bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequencing using a 454-sequencing platform on 10 of the different tick species infesting livestock.

The notable genera detected include Ral- stonia Clostridium Staphylococcus Rickettsia Lactococcus Lactobacillus Corynebacte- rium Enterobacter and Enterococcus.

The Hyalomma ticks also tested positive for the piroplasm Theileria annulata using a qPCR assay.Award IDeA from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health under award  P20GM103476.

The funders played no role in the study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.ConclusionsSignificanceThis study provides information about tick diversity in Pakistan and pathogenic bacteria in different tick species.

Our results showed evidence for Candidatus R. amblyommii infection in Rhipicephalus microplus H. anatolicum and H. dromedarii ticks which also carried T. annulata.Competing interests The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.IntroductionPakistan a predominantly farming nation has an agriculture sector representing 20.9 of the country's total gross domestic product and employs 43.4 of the country's total workforce.According to the 201314 Pakistan Livestock Census  the livestock sector within the agri- cultural economy doubled from 25.3 in 1996 to 55.

The gross value of the livestock in- creased from 7.22 billion Rs.

The role of the livestock sector in the rural economy is crucial as 30-35 million people in the rural population rely on this sector for their livelihoods.Ticks and tick-borne diseases cause an estimated US  13.9 to 18.7 billion loss and an annual shortfall of approximately 3 billion pieces of hide and skin in cattle alone .

The cattle tick Rhipicephalus microplus is a competent vector of Babesia bovis B. bigemina and Anaplasma marginale which cause tick fever in Pakistan and the rest of the world .

