In conclusion our findings support a link between adherence to the Mediterranean diet and gut microbiota characteristics.Key words Gut microbiota Mediterranean diet Junk foods Yeasts SCFAThe gut microbiota is a diverse and dynamic microbial eco- system which supports important gastrointestinal and systemic metabolic functions of the host.

Long-term dietary habits have a considerable effect on the human gut microbiota and epidemiological data have already indicated connections between diet constituents or dietary patterns and gut microbiota profile and functionality.The Mediterranean diet is a healthy dietary pattern inspired by the food patterns of populations living around the Mediterranean Sea in the early 1960s.

Counts of Candida albicans were higher in the high tertile compared with the low- P  0039 and medium- P  0093 MedDietScore groups and a higher detection frequency was observed in the high tertile compared with the low-adherence group 425 v. 226  P  0050 though no signs or symptoms of candidiasis were reported among subjects 4.No significant differences were observed between tertiles with respect to qPCR analysis after sex age and BMI adjustment 5.Associations of the Mediterranean diet with gut microbiota faecal and gastrointestinal characteristicsBivariate models revealed several significant correlations between adherence to the Mediterranean diet as evaluated by MedDiet- Score and gastrointestinal stool and gut microbiota characteristics which remained significant even after adjustment for sex age andTable 3.

Thus our data might be applied to other populations beyond Greek individuals and these observations could add considerable strength to the argument about the 'health' aspect of the Mediterranean diet.In conclusion our findings support a link between adherenceto the Mediterranean diet and the gut microbiota profile SCFA production and gastrointestinal symptoms.

K. Mitsou et al.The aim of this cross-sectional study was to elucidate the potential associations of adherence to the Mediterranean diet with gut microbiota characteristics and gastrointestinal symptomatology in an adult population.

K. Mitsou et al.attributable exclusively to coffee or tea consumption and that the consumption of sodas was correlated negatively with faecal levels of A. muciniphila -3717 SD 1641 P  0026.DiscussionThe present study aimed to explore possible associations of adherence to the Mediterranean diet with the gut microbiota profile and gastrointestinal symptoms in an adult population.

High adherence to the Mediterranean diet was characterised by a significantly greater molar ratio of acetate compared with the low tertile P  0009 and medium tertile P  0075 whereas valerate was detected in a lower ratio in the high tertile compared with both medium P  0002 and low tertiles P  0014.Gut microbiota analysisEnumeration of gut microbiota by plate-count techniques and detection frequency of each microbial group are presented in .

Adherence to the Mediterranean diet was assessed using a Mediterranean diet score the MedDietScore and subjects were classified into three tertiles according to individual adherence scoring.

Descriptive characteristics of the study participants according the tertile of adherence to the Mediterranean diet are available in 1.Diet physical activity and sleeping patternsParticipants with the highest adherence to the Mediterranean diet reported higher consumption of starchy products vegetables fruits fish and eggs but lower consumption of meat snacks and stimulants e.g.

Factors related to the urban setting of the present research the variation in fibre protein and fat content as well as the quality of diets among studies the differences in definition of adherence level to the Mediterranean diet or even the reported under- representation of the Prevotella group in Nordic and Southern European countries could be the reason for these discrepancies.The diversity of the human gut mycobiome remains poorly exploredand available data about the Mediterranean diet and gut eukaryotes are rather scarce.

