while upperrespiratory tract microbial populations have been described there are currently no published studies describing the normal microbial populations of the bovine lower respiratory tract.

while useful this approach is unable to provide information on those organisms that cannot be easily cultured but are likely present at these sites and so only provides a narrow understanding of the complexity of these clinically important microbial ecosys- tems advances in next generation sequencing and bioinformatics have facilitated the characterization of the composition and diversity of complex microbial popula- tions at mucosal sites and have provided remarkable insight into the interaction of these populations with the host .

these findings are important because of the central role played by the upper respiratory microbial communities in defense against potential patho- gen access and colonization of the lung and lower airways   and because the terminal airways and adjoining alveoli are the primary site of pathogen colonization and pathology in respiratory infections.the calves in this study all originated from the same cow-calf enterprise and had been exposed to similar management and environmental challenges and so the pattern of nasopharyngeal microbial communities was anticipated to be relatively consistent across individuals.

20126610-8.lozupone c knight r. unifrac  a new phylogenetic method for comparing microbial communities unifrac  a new phylogenetic method for comparing microbial communities.

the creative commons public domain dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.backgroundbovine respiratory disease brd is one of the most com- monly reported diseases in cattle especially in intensely raised recently weaned and newly transported feedlot cattle the etiopathogenesis of brd is complex and results from the complex interaction of bacterial and viral patho- gens under the influence of a wide range of host and envir- onmental risk factors  despite many advancements in management and therapeutics brd and its sequelae con- tinue to be the leading causes of animal morbidity mortal- ity welfare concern and production loss to the industry the importance of the mucosal microbial community structure in maintaining epithelial health and homeostasis of the skin gastrointestinal and reproductive tracts has been recognized for many years but its significance has only relatively recently been demonstrated in the respira- tory tract  despite the implication of resident bacterial populations in the etiopathogenesis of brd the detailed structure of the lower airway microbiota has not been investigated.

while the composition and development of the nasopharyngeal microbiota in feedlot cattle has been recently described    there are no published studies describing lower respiratory tract microbial com- munities in feedlot cattle.

technical ad- vances in culture-independent techniques have shown that the respiratory tract of healthy people is not sterilebut is composed of a complex and previously unappreci- ated microbial community   and that certain con- figurations of the microbiota may be associated with development of respiratory disease .

there was no statistically significant difference in different bacterial diversity indices between the upper and lower respiratory tract p value 0.05independent techniques for the identification of organ- isms with fastidious growth requirements while there was some overlap between the upper and lower respiratory tract microbial communities there was strong evidence for a distinct bronchoalveolar microbiota.

it has been shown that the healthy human lung does not harbor consistent and distinct microbial communities but instead possesses a variable microbiota that is highly correlated and largely indistinguishable from that of the upper respiratory tract .

in this population of animals the core microbiota was composed of organisms from the mycoplasma clostridium streptococcus moraxella and alkaliphilus taxa.discussionin this study we describe the first use of high throughput sequencing in comparing the upper and lower respiratory microbiota of feedlot cattle.

bmc microbiology 2017 17138doi 10.1186s12866-017-1042-2relationship between nasopharyngeal and bronchoalveolar microbial communities in clinically healthy feedlot cattlemohamed m. zeineldin1 james f. lowe1 elsbeth d. grimmer1 maria r. c. de godoy2 mohamed m. ghanem3 yassein m. abd el-raof3 and brian m. aldridge1abstractbackground the importance of upper airway structure in the susceptibility of the lower respiratory tract to colonization with potential pathogens is well established.

with the advent of rapid high throughput next generation sequencing there is a growing appreciation of the importance of commensal microbial populations in maintaining mucosal health and a realization that bacteria colonize anatomical locations that were previously considered to be sterile.

the primary objective of our study was to characterize the composition structure and relationship of the lower and upper respiratory microbial communities in clinically healthy feedlot cattle.

the microbial community structure was distinct between these two biogeographical sites.

there were strong associations between the presence of certain taxa at each specific location and strong correlations between the presence of specific taxa in both the nps and bal samples.conclusions the correlation between the presence of specific taxa in both the nps and bal samples supports the notion of a mutualistic interrelationship between these microbial communities.

