co-dehydrogenase acs and nife- and fefe-hydrogenase involved in co2 reduction via h2 tookplace in a subsurface environment where these minerals were abundantly available 35 36. the most primitive methanogen by phylogenetic reconstruction is methanopyrus kandlerii 37 a hyperthermophilic organism isolated from a deep sea hydro- thermal vent that grows at temperatures up to 122 degc 38. the physiological characteristics of this organism its ecology and its primitive nature are consistent with the notion of a deep hot biosphere.the diversity of life in the deep subsurfaceinitially we learned about the deep hot biosphere from cultivation of taxa in fluids sampled from oil wells mines caves and geo- thermal and hydrothermal environments among others 39-42. since gold's call to probe the deep biosphere increased access and sampling of subsurface environments in terrestrial and marine environments through drilling projects and increased collaboration with industrial partners have resulted in substantial expansion of the known microbial taxa in these environments.

furthermore appli- cation of molecular approaches has resulted in the discovery of a plethora of previously unknown microbial lineages particularly within the archaeal domain 43-49. although a precise definition of what depth below the surface is considered deep is system- dependent constraining the limits of the deep hot biosphere to those environments that exhibit temperatures higher than50 degc and are 1 m below the surface as is used elsewhere tooperationally define the deep subsurface 50 provide a metric from which to compare like environments.although there are a number of similarities between marine and terrestrial subsurface environments important differencesfefe-hydrogenases86420mo-co dehydrogenases40200acetyl-coa synthases86420nife-hydrogenases20100ni-co dehydrogenases86420formate dehydrogenases20100studies reveal a unique and considerable diversity of both culti- vated and uncultivated lineages of bacteria and archaea that predominate deep thermal subsurface environments.

likewise ocean-drilling programs in areas associated with hydrothermal activity have provided equally important insight into the nature of life in deep hot marine environments 44 48 56-59. thesetrophic archaea anme lineages and bacteria related to thermo- togae chloroflexi and the aminecenantes formerly op8 among others 44 48 56-58. although the previous 25 years of work have revealed abundant novel taxonomic diversity in deep hot subsurface environments accompanying physiological diversity was less forthcoming until recent developments in high- throughput -omics-based approaches.omic insights into the physiological capacity of the deep subsurface microbial biospherethe oligotrophic nature of subsurface environments selects for microorganisms that thrive on minimal energy gradients pro- vided by available redox couples in highly reducing low-oxidant environments.

 perspectivethe deep hot biosphere twenty-five years of retrospectiondaniel r. colmana saroj poudela blake w. stampsb eric s. boydac1 and john r. spearbc1edited by david m. karl university of hawaii honolulu hi and approved may 16 2017 received for review january 25 2017twenty-five years ago this month thomas gold published a seminal manuscript suggesting the presence of a deep hot biosphere in the earth's crust.

to this end we suggest the need to develop a robust network of interdisciplin- ary scientists and accessible field sites for long-term monitoring of the earth's subsurface in the form of a deep subsurface microbiome initiative.geobiology  biogeochemistry  hydrogen  subsurface  thermophilesa quarter-century ago this month thomas gold an austrian-born astrophysicist from cornell university pub- lished a paper in these pages entitled simply the deep hot biosphere 1. in this paper followed by a book of the same title 2 gold suggested that microbial life is likely widespread throughout earth's subsurface residing in the pore spaces between grains in rocks.

the methane lakes of the jovian moon titan begging the question as to why hydrocarbons in the deep subsurface of earth need to have a different origin 2. bondi thought that this proposal in geology was gold's most important intervention to a field outside his own 4. although speculation surrounding the formation of oil and gas has resulted in significant debate within the geosciences the idea of abundant abiogenic hydrocarbons percolating upward had perhaps an even more pro- found influence on the biosciences by providing impetus to un- derstand how such compounds could fuel a deep hot biosphere since early in earth history.

if true h2 or ch4 sourced from abiogenic hydrocarbons and the life that is dependent on these compounds could be widespread in the subsurface of not just earth but also other planetary bodies 11-13. indeed h2 has become a major focal point for microbiologists studying the deep subsurface 1415 and has been suggested to be the fuel that supported the earliest forms of life on earth 16-18.gold's deep hot biosphere contribution challenged para- digms in subsurface science petroleum research the origin and evolution of life and the search for life on other planets.

archaea that were detected in subsurface mine samples in south africa and japan include representatives from candidate divisions that have now been given the epithets of bathyarchaeota hadesarchaea and aigarchaeota 59-61. deep borehole fluids from idaho and south africa contained significant pop- ulations of thermophilic methanogenic archaea 15 62. con- siderable bacterial diversity has also been detected in thermal subsurface environments and includes members of the aquificae firmicutes d-proteobacteria and nitrospirae among other pro- teobacterial groups and numerous uncultivated candidate divi- sions 46 49 62-66. similar microbial taxa have been observed in deep hot marine subsurface systems in addition to archaea from the archaeoglobales thermococcales and anaerobic methano-fig.

although much of the deep marine sediments re- covered from drilling programs are below the thermal temper- atures that we define as hot 50 degc recent estimates havesuggested that 34 of total ocean sediment volume exists in thetemperature range occupied by thermophilic microorganisms 40-100 degc with an additional 5 at temperatures theoretically capable of supporting life 100-120 degc 53. clearly the definition of deep is contextually dependent and has consequences for the physicochemical characteristics of such systems.

although a number of other definitions can be used this framework is used to guide the following discussion of the deep hot biosphere.in terrestrial settings studies within mines 43 45 54 55 at depths of between 102 and 103 m below the surface and borehole drilling into hydrothermal environments 15 have provided critical information on the nature of the deep hot biosphere.

recent metagenomic analyses of these samples have provided a glimpse into the considerable phylogenetic and metabolic diversity of the deep hot marine subsurface via reconstructed genomes from metagenomes that have expanded on previous molecular surveys 81.although much insight has been gained into the nature of life in the deep hot biosphere over the previous 25 years since thomas gold's seminal work there are a number of questions that remain unanswered.

the techniques used to better study and understand deep hot bio- spheres on earth could then be applied to robotically probe tar- gets in deep space as we move into the next century of scientific discovery.

since this publication a considerable amount of attention has been given to the study of deep biospheres their role in geochemical cycles and their potential to inform on the origin of life and its potential outside of earth.

overwhelming evidence now supports the presence of a deep biosphere ubiquitously distributed on earth in both terrestrial and marine settings.

despite 25 years of intense study key questions remain on life in the deep subsurface including whether it is endemic and the extent of its involvement in the anaerobic formation and degradation of hydrocarbons.

