thus hbd-3 plays an important role in the human body 8.recently various approaches have been applied to regen- erate periodontal tissue including the use of osteoinductiveagents and biomaterials guided tissue regeneration and cell therapy 9. human periodontal ligament cells hpdlcs and human bone marrow stromal cells hbmscs are useful seeding cells for periodontal cell therapies 1011. however these two cell types only secrete hbd-3 in trace amounts 12. the present study aimed to construct a recombinant lenti- viral vector with the hbd-3 gene and to investigate the effects of the vector in an effort to develop a novel and suitable treat- ment for periodontal inflammation to promote periodontaltissue regeneration.materials and methodscell isolation and culture.

the objectives of the present study were to transfect human periodontal ligament cells hpdlcs and human bone marrow stromal cells hbmscs with lentivirus containing the hbd-3 gene determine the transfection efficiency and investi- gate the antimicrobial activity of the experimental cells against periodontal pathogens.

hpdlcs human periodontal ligament cells gfp green fluorescent protein hmbscs human bone marrow stromal cells hbd-3 human b-defensin-3.usa was used for all statistical analyses.

hbmscs human bone marrow stromal cells hpdlcs human periodontal ligament cells hbd-3 human b-defensin-3 gfp green fluorescent protein.figure 3. amount of hbd-3 secreted by hpdlcs as determined by elisa.

chinae-mail e-mail contributed equallykey words human b-defensin-3 antimicrobial activity transfection periodontitis human periodontal ligament cells human bone marrow stromal cellsintroductionperiodontitis is caused by a wide range of complex micro- organisms and is the primary cause of alveolar bone absorption and eventual tooth loss in the adult population 1. this condition has become a major public health issue and the development of effective therapies to treat this disease and regenerate periodontal tissue has become an important goal of current medicine.

hbd-3 human b-defensin-3 gfp green f luorescent protein hpdlcs human periodontal ligament cells av actinomyces viscosus ca candida albicans rd rothia dentocariosa pg porphyromonas gingivalis sm streptococcus mutans.figure 6. antibacterial activity of hbmscs transfected with hbd-3 as determined by liquid growth inhibition assay.

hbd-3 human b-defensin-3 gfp green f luorescent protein hbmscs human bone marrow stromal cells av actinomyces viscosus ca candida albicans rd rothia dentocariosa pg porphyromonas gingivalis sm streptococcus mutans.elisa.

hbd-3 human b-defensin-3 gfp green fluorescent protein hpdlcs human periodontal ligament cells av actinomyces viscosus ca candida albicans rd rothia dentocariosa pg porphyromonas gingivalis sm streptococcus mutans.figure 8. antimicrobial testing for hbmscs transfected with hbd-3 as determined by colony-forming assay.

hbd-3 human b-defensin-3 gfp green fluorescent protein hbmscs human bone marrow stromal cells av actinomyces viscosus ca candida albicans rd rothia dentocariosa pg porphyromonas gingivalis sm streptococcus mutans.was observed for hbmscs transfected with the hbd-3 gene and cultured with the microbes corresponding to the order listed above the cultures yielded od values of 0.073-0.017 0.082-0.016 0.086-0.026 0.052-0.017 and 0.076-0.033respectively p0.001 fig.

transfection was performed by adding polybrene 8 ugml and 20 ul each viral dilution to the cells thoroughly and gently mixing the solutions and incubating the cells in 5 co2 at 37c.

expression and antimicrobial character of cells transfected with human b-defensin-3 against periodontitis-associated microbiota in vitrominwen zhu1 bo miao2 jianhua zhu3 haiyan wang1 and zengtong zhou11department of oral mucosal diseases shanghai ninth people's hospital shanghai jiao tong university school of medicine shanghai 200011 2department of stomatology aviation general hospital of china medical universitybeijing 100012 3department of periodontal mucosa affiliated stomatological hospital of jiamusi university jiamusi heilongjiang 154002 p.r.

furthermore the immune response of the host to the oral microbiome should be considered with respect to the immuno- pathogenesis of periodontal disease and the immune defenses against caries 2. the inflammatory response fosters the growth of dysbiotic microbial communities and the bacterial biomass of human periodontitis-associated biofilms has been shown to increase with the aggravation of periodontal inflam- mation 3. as periodontal tissue may continue to degrade even after being treated with conventional therapies 4 there is a need to develop an antimicrobial agent to protect regenerated periodontal tissue in infectious environments.human b-defensins hbds are epithelial-derived anti- microbial peptides that contribute to the innate immune responses of eukaryotes 5. in addition to their microbicidal abilities host defense peptides are multifunctional mediators of inflammation that have effects on cell proliferation cyto- kinechemokine production and chemotaxis in epithelial and inflammatory cells 6. the expression of three hbds namely hbd-1 -2 and -3 has been identified in oral mucosa gingiva and salivary glands 7. among these hbds hbd-3 is of particular interest for structural and functional studies and for potential pharmaceutical applications.

peptides 32 888-894 2011.ouhara k komatsuzawa h yamada s shiba h fujiwara t ohara m sayama k hashimoto k kurihara h and sugai m susceptibilities of periodontopathogenic and cariogenic bacteria to antibacterial peptides beta-defensins and ll37 produced by human epithelial cells.

hbd-3 human b-defensin-3 gfp green fluores- cent protein hpdlcs human periodontal ligament cells.figure 4. amount of hbd-3 secreted by hbmscs as determined by elisa.

hbd-3 human b-defensin-3 gfp green fluores- cent protein hbmscs human bone marrow stromal cells.experiments as observed by fluorescence microscopy fig.

