these findings may prove innovative in the therapeutic approach to treating infants with cma by accelerating the acquisition of tolerance .consumption of probiotic milk products was related to a reduced incidence of atopic eczema and rhinoconjunctivitis but not associated to the incidence of asthma by 36 months of age .most tolerant infants showed a significant increase in fecal butyrate levels and those taxa that were significantly enriched in these samples  exhibited specific strain-level demarcations between tolerant and allergic infants.

partial hydrolysates with clinical proof of efficacy are recommended in some guidelines in the prevention of cma and allergic disease in at risk infants and may be considered as an option as protein source in starter infant formula.keywords cow milk allergy hydrolysate infant formula functional gastrointestinal disorder prevention treatmentintroductionthis manuscript discusses the prevention and management of cow's milk allergy cma in non-exclusively breastfed infants.

breastfeeding is the first choice feeding for infants and allergic and functional gastrointestinal disorders occur more often in non-exclusively breastfed than in breastfed infants.

some guidelines recommend the use of phfs in at risk infants which are defined as infants born in a family in which at least one of the family members parents brother sister has atopic disease.

qualitative and quantitative differences in the composition of the gut microbiota between infants who will and infants who will not develop allergy are demonstrable before the development of any clinical manifestations of atopy .

but based on grade evidence to decision frameworks the wao guideline panel suggests using prebiotic supplementation in not-exclusively breastfed infants and not using prebiotic supplementation in exclusively breastfed infants .

l. gg has been shown to substantially increase the memory b cells and stimulate interferon-g secretion in infants with cma and with ige-associated dermatitis but not in healthy infants .

the wao guideline panel suggests i using probiotics in pregnant women at high risk for having an allergic child ii using probiotics in women who breastfeed infants at high risk of developing allergy andiii using probiotics in infants at high risk of developing allergy .

since cma is much less frequent in breastfed infants breastfeeding should be stimulated.

about 10 to 15 of infants allergic to cow milk will also react to soy.

conclusion breastfeeding is the best way to feed infants.

many infants present with symptoms related to milk ingestion.

it is only in a minority of infants that functional gi symptoms such as regurgitation constipation and colic are of allergic origin.

intolerance is the consequence of lactase deficiency the brush border enzyme that digests lactose the predominant sugar in milk and is almost always secondary to another condition in young infants.

however since most literature including guidelines recommend the use of extensive hydrolysates as first choice in the management treatment is used in this context.tolerance of cow milk will have developed in 85 to 90 of the infants with cma by the age of three years.

