the analysis of similarities anosim was performed and gave the r value of 0.173 and the p-value of 0.001. notably beijing and nagasaki samples were clustered farther from each other and seoul samples were clustered in between indicating that the bacterial communities of beijing and nagasaki were more different than those of beijing and seoul or seoul and nagasaki.

6institute of tropical medicine nagasaki university 1-12-4 sakamoto nagasaki 852-8523 japan.

pm2.5 concentrations were measured in china south korea and japan and measurement systems were installed on the rooftops of the school of public health buildings at peking university in beijing seoul national university in seoul and nagasaki university in nagasaki.

red circles green rectangles and blue triangles represent the numbers of species in the beijing seoul and nagasaki sites respectively.b diversity of the beijing red circles and seoul green rectangles sites divided by that of the nagasaki site.figure 4. a heat map of the identified phylotypes at the genus level where identified phylotypes are in black and unidentified phylotypes are in white.

b-s s-n and b-n represent comparisons between beijing and seoul seoul and nagasaki and beijing and nagasaki respectively.

the bray-curtis similarity between seoul and nagasaki was 0.73 and that between beijing and nagasaki was 0.66. the bacterial communities of beijing and seoul were much more similar to each other than any other two cities.

this result is interesting because the three locations are in different country they are very far from each other 952 km from beijing to seoul 596 km from seoul to nagasaki and 1442 km from beijing to nagasaki and the environ- ments near them are different but yet the seasonal variation is greater.

pca showed that the bacteria community in seoul was in between those of beijing and nagasaki and bray-curtis similarity analysis demonstrated that airborne bacteria in seoul were more similar to those in beijing than those in nagasaki except during summer.

beijing china had more diverse airborne bacteria followed by seoul south korea and nagasaki japan and seasonal variations were observed.

beijing and seoul had more diverse airborne bacteria during the winter whereas nagasaki showed greater diversity during the summer.

according to principal component analysis and bray-curtis similarity higher similarity was observed between beijing and seoul than between seoul and nagasaki during all seasons except summer.

thus in this study we measured airborne bacteria in three major cities in three countries of east asia beijing in china seoul in south korea and nagasaki in japan.

the average flow rates of measurement sites in beijing seoul and nagasaki were 16.7 lmin for 24 h on the sampling day.

daily mean temperature relative humidity wind speed and wind direction of beijing seoul and nagasaki during the meas- urement period were obtained from chinese weather and air pollution query websites    korea meteorological administration and japan meteorological agency respectively.dna extraction from pm samples.

b s and n indicate the beijing seoul and nagasaki sites respectively and sp.

