over the course of 72 h pao1 achieved stationary phase growth within the biofilm figure a. the presence of pao1 also allowed vpi 4355 to achieve sustained stationary phase growth within the biofilm figure similar to its growth in biofilm pao1 achieved stationary phase growth in the planktonic coculture figure however while the cfu of vpi 4355 increased at 24 h the numbers of cfu declined over the rest of the time course with a significant drop in cfu between 48 and 72 h figure these results suggest that in an aerobically incubated coculture p. aeruginosa supports the growth of f. nucleatum in both the planktonic and biofilm settings although the biofilm setting appears to support f. nucleatum survival and growth better than planktonic culture figure .the growth of p. aeruginosa significantly reduces the level of dissolved oxygen in broth.

in a mixed-species biofilm some pathogenswithin the biofilm such as p. aeruginosa may primarily contribute to the eps which protects all bacteria within the biofilm while others such as f. nucleatum may produce beta- lactamase protecting all the bacteria within the biofilm from beta-lactam antibiotics  .

previous studies showed that under aerobic conditions the growth of aerobic or facultatively anaerobic bacteria within a biofilm reduces the level of oxygen present thereby facilitating the growth of strictly anaerobic bacteria 1. in patients with ptto or tt occlu- sion pathogenic bacteria within the middle ear may be found in planktonic form within the ear fluid and in biofilms on the mucosal surfaces of the middle ear or on the tt .

plates and tubes were then incubated aerobically at 37 c for up to 48 h.f. nucleatum within the biofilm transferred to the bhi plate maintained their growth for 8 h after transfer increasing 1 log but by 24 h after transfer the cfudisk of f. nucleatum had declined sharply and by 48 h after transfer no f. nucleatum was recovered figure p. aeruginosa however continued to grow throughout the 48 h after transfer figure these results suggest that the growth of p. aerug- inosa within the dual-species biofilm provided f. nucleatum with sufficient protection from ambient oxygen to maintain its growth for a short time but p. aeruginosa could not protect against continued exposure to oxygen.

these organisms did not produce biofilms when grown alone aerobically however in the presence of aerobicfacultative anaerobic bacteria these strict anaerobic species survived and grew in both planktonic and biofilm forms .in this study we investigated whether the growth of the facultative anaerobe p. aeruginosa would influence the sur- vival and growth of f. nucleatum under aerobic conditions either planktonically in a mixed biofilm or both.materials and methodscollection and processing of patient samples.

the phenomenon is not likely to be caused by the exhaustion of nutrients as p. aeruginosa maintained stationary phase growth over the same time period figure in contrast competitive interactions among bacteria within biofilms also occurs 2. one species may outcompete others because it can better utilize a given energy source 28. other bacteria compete with each other over the limited nutrients by surface blanketing occupying all the availableadhesion sites or by secreting compounds that actively elim- inate other species not only does p. aeruginosa engage in surface blanketing it produces extracellular proteins such as pyocins that target other competing gram-negative bacteria including p. aeruginosa strains that are sensitive to that specific pyocin 0. at this time we cannot exclude the possibility that p. aeruginosa produces potential extracellular factors that interfere with the growth of f. nucleatum.

representative images are shown at 400x magnification.is characterized by p. aeruginosa provision of growth support to f. nucleatum through reduction of the dissolved oxygen content of the broth medium figures and this growth support occurs during planktonic growth but is more evident within the biofilm figure .

for example even though the oral cavity is fully aerated dental plaque a biofilm consists of both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria 2. studies have shown that f. nucleatum serves as a bridge between noncoaggregating early often aerobes and late often anaerobes colonizers because it is capable of coaggregating with all species of oral bacteria 25 perhaps in this aspect f. nucleatum serves the same role in biofilm formation by otopathogens on tt or on membranes of the middle ear.

c perforation heals or tt becomes occluded trapping the organisms within the middle ear where the two bacterial species live together within the middle ear fluid and coaggregate to form biofilms on the tt or on the mucosal surfaces.conclusionin the oropharyngeal cavity anaerobic bacteria outnumber aerobic bacteria 10-100  1 32 3. environmental andor ecological changes within the nasopharynx of young children have been reported to favor anaerobic growth 34. it has been hypothesized that anaerobic bacteria from the oral cavity can travel retrograde up the eustachian tube into the middle ear cavity especially when chronic inflammation is present chronic suppurative otitis media involves perforation of the tympanic membrane while the treatment for chronic serousotitis media often involves myringotomy and insertion of tt 2 based on our findings we suggest the following model for the possible interaction between p. aeruginosa and f. nucleatum and the influence of the environment on their interaction within the middle ear figure .

hindawiinternational journal of otolaryngology volume 2017 article id 3037191 12 pages research articleplanktonic growth of pseudomonas aeruginosa around a dual-species biofilm supports the growth of fusobacterium nucleatum within that biofilmjames c. wang12 joehassin cordero23 yan sun4 mayank aranke5 randall wolcott6 jane a. colmer-hamood78 and abdul n. hamood381 department of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery university of cincinnati medical center cincinnati oh usa 2department of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery texas tech university health sciences center lubbock tx usa 3department of surgery texas tech university health sciences center lubbock tx usa4texas department of state health services dna analysis laboratory austin tx usa 5school of medicine texas tech university health sciences center lubbock tx usa 6research and testing laboratory lubbock tx usa7department of medical education texas tech university health sciences center lubbock tx usa8department of immunology and molecular microbiology texas tech university health sciences center lubbock tx usacorrespondence should be addressed to abdul n. hamood received 21 march 2017 accepted 5 june 2017 published 17 july 2017academic editor jeffrey p. pearsoncopyright c 2017 james c. wang et al.

the presence of p. aeruginosa allowed f. nucleatum to maintain its growth for 72 h within the dual-species biofilm but not within the planktonic growth.

these results suggest that planktonic growth of pseudomonas10101091081071061051041030pao1 vpi 4355244872hoursa10101091081071061051041030pao1 vpi 4355244872hoursbfigure 4 p. aeruginosa supports the growth of f. nucleatum in both p6lanktonic and biofilm setting2 s under aerobic conditions.

aeruginosaeustachian tubenucleatumtympanostomy tubebhealedcfigure 9 illustration of the hypothesized mechanism through which the growth of p. aeruginosa within the middle ear supports the growth and biofilm development of f. nucleatum.

bacteria within the exterior surface of the biofilm have access to oxygen and nutrientswhile within the biofilm interior the conditions are anoxic or anaerobic p. aeruginosa a gram-negative opportunistic pathogen that produces numerous virulence factors causes infections of many body sites including the respiratory tract and the middle ear 1 fusobacterium a strict anaerobic gram- negative bacillus constitutes part of the normal flora of the oropharynx .

the other intriguing point that pyrosequencing analysis showed is the difference in the composition of the planktonic bacteria within each ear fluid and the bacteria within the biofilms on the tt.within a biofilm the bacterial community is surrounded by an eps matrix.

