This contradiction could be due to the fact that UOF is a slightly acid soil and BOF is a slightly basic soil Table .The sharpest effect of wildfire in soil microbial community after 3 years was the predominance of phylum Actinobacteria mainly due to the high proportion of genus Arthrobacter Figs and .

Due to the wildfire there was an increase in soil pH but in contrast there was a decrease in soil organic matter and iron concentration.

The soil attached to the roots was manually removed and the roots with rhizospheric soil were putinto 50 ml Falcon tubes filled with 20 ml of sterilized NaCl 0.8.

On the other hand we processed up to 2 kg of soil from each site sieved through a 2 mm mesh for physicochemical analysis including soil type pH available water total nitrogen organic matter electrical conductivity etc.

Changes in soil bacterial community triggered by drought-induced gap succession preceded changes in soil C stocks and quality.

The role of the soil microbial community in the recovery of an ecosystem following such an event remains poorly understood.

In this sense phylum Actinobacteria is a unique group of soil microorganisms that now we know are closely associated with plants and they have been isolated from different parts of plants of diverse genera.

Recently it has been described how Actinobacteria genera such as Blastoccocus and Arthrobacter have a main role in the soil nitrogen cycle after a wildfire.1Departamento de Microbiologia del Suelo y Sistemas Simbioticos Estacion Experimental del Zaidin Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas calle Profesor Albareda 1 18008 Granada Spain.

This identification was followed by the isolation of the most abundant genera and their characterization as PGP rhizobacteria to select single isolates that could be used as bacterial inoculants to promote forest recovery after a wildfire.ResultsEffects of fire on soil physicochemical properties.

Both the control and burned soil samples belong to haplic phaeozem type classified as loam with regard to their texture Table .

