we tested the effect of control larvae either on plain food a or on food mixed with 0.02 acetoin foodh3b2 b. we also tested the effect of di2 larvae resulting of control eggs ce or of washed eggs we or of dechorionated eggs de either in plain food c or in foodh3b2 d. we also tested the effect of an extract of crushed larvae cl or crushed adults added in plain food c. data are shown as box plots representing the 50 median data second and third quartile separated with a small horizontal bar indicating the median value.

food either contained no larvae o a-d or was processed either by dijon 2000 larvae di2 a-d or canton-s larvae cs ab.

however plain food vials with di2 or canton-s cs larvae containedsubstantial amounts of acetoin in 3d vials which strongly decreased in 6d vials in di2 mv 205.0 ng n 77 and 26.8 ng n  49 respectively p  0.001 and in cs mv 98.2 n  20 and 5.5 ng n  20 respectively p  0.001. note that 3d vials mostly contained first and second instar larvae l1-l2 whereas 6d vials mostly contained third instar larvae l3.the control experiment o performed with foodh3b2 revealed no acetoin change between 3d and 6d vials mv 501.2 and 461.8 ng respectively p  ns n 11 fig.

larvae derived from control eggs ce showed a very different response according to their exposure larvae raised on plain food were attracted n 50 p  0.015--whereas those raised on foodh3b2 were repulsed n  100 p  0.006--by acetoin-rich food.

the comparison between the two food types for each respective strain and age revealed no difference except in di2 3d plain food and cs 6d foodh3b2 vials where acetoin levels dropped compared to di2 3d foodh3b2 p  0.05 and cs 6d plain food vials p  0.01 respectively.microorganisms involved in the dynamic change of acetoin.

in contrast olfactory-defective orco2 mutant larvae--raisedand tested in similar conditions--showed no preference p  ns figs and .in the two other experiments we compared the response to food2 ug h3b2 the preferred dose of di2 larvae originating from manipulated eggs and either raised on plain food figs and  or on foodh3b2 figs and .

at each generation progenitors flies inducing the next generation were kept only two days for egg-laying on the food in order to reduce microorganism transmission see material and methods.between the two types of lines high larvae were attracted--whereas low lines pooled were repulsed--by acetoin-rich food n  50 p  0.033 figs and .

a each individual early third instar larva was given a binary choice between two food patches either impregnated with plain food empty circle and bars or with acetoin-rich food foodh3b2 filled circle and bars.

we tested di2 larvae bde and anosmic orco2 mutant larvae c. each double-sided bar represents the frequency for the first chosen food in the binary choice test.

larvae were either raised on plain foodb-d or on acetoin-rich food e. we tested larvae resulting of control eggs all tests in b c ce in de and of manipulated eggs washed we dechorionated de dechorionated  raised in isolation dex1 de.

our findings fits wellwith the attraction of d. melanogaster larvae to uncharacterized volatiles produced by laboratory food mixed with l. plantarum bacteria.our data reveals the existence of a relationship between the level of acetoin produced by larvae and to which they are exposed and their behavioral response to this compound.

this conditioning effect can vary between drosophila species early developmental exposure to larval-processed food strongly conditioned d. simulans and d. buzzatii larvae to prefer their own species-labelled foodwhile it induced a strong aversion in wild-type d. melanogaster larvae.

in this case freshly laid eggs 6 h were dechorionated and individually deposited in a fresh food vial either containing plain food or foodh3b2 and kept until early l3 stage for testing.body extracts whole bodies of fresh anesthetized animals 5 min at -20 degc corresponding to 3 g of washed larvae l1-l3 or 4 g of mixed adults 2-4 day-old were crushed using a sterile grinding glass apparatus in 30 or 40 ml de-ionized sterile water respectively.

fifty to 100 replicates were performed depending on the experiment.statistics.acetoin level measurements were carried out in vials containing a similar number of larvae according to both larval stage and maternal age.for each studied group we compared the distribution of h3b2 amounts between 3d and 6d vials using a mann-whitney test p  0.05. for each behavioral test we assessed the statistical difference for larval distribu- tion between the two food patches using a fisher exact test p  0.05. for each complete set of behavioral tests a post hoc cell partitioning analysis and a chi-square test p  0.05 were used to compare the distribution between the different groups of larvae simultaneously tested figs and .referencesstokl j. et al.

wild-type larvae preferred acetoin-rich food only when they bothproduced and were exposed to substantial amounts of acetoin.

