In particular their similarity percentages were 1 calculated for the species in the L. casei group and 2 compared to the genome similarity values isDDH and ANI to highlight genes the similarity of which was most representative of whole-genome identity.Genome sequence analysis selection of target gene and primer designHousekeeping genes previously used in MLST studies for different species of the genus Lactobacillus  were retrieved aligned and identity values were calculated among the three type strains of the recognized species of the L. casei group strain DSM 20178 former type of species 'L.

Food Microbiol 2012291-9.Vasquez A Ahrne S Pettersson B Molin G. Temporal tempera- ture gradient gel electrophoresis TTGE as a tool for identification of Lactobacillus casei Lactobacillus paracasei Lactobacillus zeae and Lactobacillus rhamnosus.

In particular the species Lactobacillus casei Lactobacillus paracasei and Lactobacillus rhamnosus are phylogenetically and phenotypically related and are regarded together as the L. casei group within the faculta- tively heterofermentative lactobacilli .

In differ- ent kind of cheeses they can be naturally present or added as starter or adjunct cultures  and they are commonly the dominant species of nonstarter LAB in long-ripened cheeses .Despite their importance for the food industry after many years of controversial nomenclature and taxonomic status a decision of the judicial commission of the International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes ICSP has stated that the type strain of the species L. casei is strain ATCC 393 and that all strains similar to ATCC 334 proposed as the neotype strain of the species  should be namedReceived 31 January 2017 Accepted 2 June 2017Author affiliations 1Department of Food and Drug Science University of Parma Viale delle Scienze 49A 43124 Parma Italy 2Multidisciplinary Interdepartmental Dairy Center - MILC University of Parma Parma Italy 3Department of Biotechnology University of Verona Strada Le Grazie 15 37134 Verona Italy 4School of Microbiology and APC Microbiome Institute University College Cork Western Road Cork Ireland.Correspondence Benedetta Bottari Keywords identification L. casei group species mutL multiplex PCR.Abbreviations ANI average nucleotide identity isDDH in silico DNA-DNA hybridization LAB lactic acid bacteria rDNA-RFLP rDNA-restriction frag- ment length polymorphism.These authors contributed equally to this work.Present address Panificio Zorzi S.r.l.

Microbiology 2017163950-960 DOI 10.1099mic.0.000497Effective identification of Lactobacillus casei group species genome-based selection of the gene mutL as the target of a novel multiplex PCR assayBenedetta Bottari12 Giovanna E. Felis3 Elisa Salvetti4 Anna Castioni3 Ilenia Campedelli3 Sandra Torriani3 Valentina Bernini1 and Monica Gatti12INTRODUCTIONThe widely heterogeneous genus Lactobacillus is the largest among lactic acid bacteria LAB.

bulgaricus Streptococcus thermo- philus Lactobacillus acidophilus Lactobacillus casei and Bifidobac- terium spp.

casei ATCC 393 and Lactobacillus rham- nosus ATCC 15820 as Lactobacillus zeae nom.

The type strain of Lactobacillus casei is ATCC 393 ATCC 334 cannot serve as the type because it repre- sents a different taxon the name Lactobacillus paracasei and its subspecies names are not rejected and the revival of the name'Lactobacillus zeae' contravenes Rules 51b 1 and 2 of the Inter-national Code of Nomenclature of Bacteria.

Differentiation of Lactobacillus casei Lacto- bacillus paracasei and Lactobacillus rhamnosus by polymerase chain reaction.

The genomes were uploaded to the web-based ANI calculator  and the calculation was car- ried out with default parameters.Similarity values were compared with isDDH and ANI values for the same strains to determine which genes could be considered the best indicators of genome-wide diversity.Strains of the L. casei group investigated and DNA isolationSeventy-six wild strains isolated from dairy samples previ- ously identified by different molecular techniques as belong- ing to the species L. casei L. paracasei and L. rhamnosus were investigated .Nine reference strains namely LMG 6904T ATCC 393T LMG 23516 L. casei ATCC 334 L. paracasei LMG 6400T LMG 23522T LMG 23304TATCC 53103 strain GG L. rhamnosus were included in the study and Lactobacillus plantarum ATCC 14917T was used as negative control.The strains were maintained as frozen stocks in MRS broth Sigma-Aldrich containing 20  vv glycerol at-80 0C.

