casei ccfm 2710 l. rhamnosus ccfm492 and l. helveticus ccfm6 which are strains with the ability to use fos as the sole carbon and better cell adhesion properties.alterations in the structure and diversity of the gut microbiota by cefiximehigh dose of cefixime caused a drastic decline in gut microbial species a as indicated in the shannon index from 5.42 - 0.21 con to 1.60 - 0.06 hcfx p 0.01. consistently cefixime administration also caused significant dose-related effects on the composition of the fecal microbiota after 2 weeks of administration in mice b c. the high dose use of cefixime was chosen for the following experiment because its more prominent adverse effects on the gut microbiota than the normal dose which are also more difficult for the host to recover from.the abundance of firmicutes significantly increased from 39.4 - 8.3 to 97.4 - 1.5 after administration of high-dose cefixime .

the alteration of the ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes relates to gut and metabolic diseases and the increase of firmicutes was related to obesity  type 1 diabetes  and inflammatory bowel disease .similar results shown in  at the genus level showed that cefixime caused a dramatic change in the structure and abundance of the gut microbiota of mice because after cefixime used the abundance of major resident genera such as bifidobacterium lactobacillus asac- charobacter and butyricimous parabacteroides butyricicoccus decreased to undetectable levels while some conditional pathogens such as enterococcus and pseudomonas increased.recovery of gut microbiota by lactobacillus cocktails after use of high- dose cefiximefrom  the effect of strains in laca was remarkably better than that of natural recovery as the proportion of proteobacteria was much reduced which almost reached the same level of the initial microbiota.

these results are consistent with our finding that the strains with beneficial effects in restoring the gut microbiota after antibiotic use did not correlate with survival in gastric and intestinal conditions in vitro.the effects of fos in restoration of high-dose cefixime induced gut microbiota changeneither fos nor fos combined with lactobacillus was effective as a prebiotic in recovery from the cefixime-induced gut microbiota changes .

the effect of microbiota restoration by two groups of lactobacillus strains with four species of strains each was investigated over the following 3 weeks as was the cooperative effect of lactobacillus and fos.materials and methodsprobiotic strainseighteen strains from various species of lactobacillus were used as follows l. plantarum including ccfm4 ccfm10 ccfm595 ccfm602 and ccfm605 l. casei ccfm5 ccfm30 ccfm236 ccfm2710 and ccfm2711 l. rhamnosus lgg ccfm237 ccfm311 ccfm319 andccfm492 and l. helveticus ccfm6 ccfm672 and ccfm673.

restoration of cefixime-induced gut microbiota changes by lactobacilluscocktails and fructooligosaccharides in a mouse modelying shi qixiao zhai dongyao li bingyong mao xiaoming liu jianxin zhaohao zhang wei chena state key laboratory of food science and technology school of food science and technology jiangnan university 214122 wuxi pr chinab international joint research laboratory for probiotics jiangnan university 214122 wuxi pr chinac beijing innovation centre of food nutrition and human health beijing technology and business university btbu beijing 100048 pr chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords antibiotic alteration lactobacillus gut microbiotashort-chain fatty acidsa b s t r a c t probiotics have been used to rebuild the antibiotic-induced dysfunction in gut microbiota but whether the different strains of probiotics result in similar or reverse effects remains unclear.

meanwhile the restoration of the cefixime-induced gut microbiota was significantly different between two lactobacillus groups since the lactobacillus strains with high levels of fructooligosaccharide use and better cell adhesion properties performed considerably better than the lactobacillus strains with high survival rates in the gastrointestinal tract.

longitudinal studies implicate a causal role of microbiota imbalance in numerous diseases including metabolic diseases such as obesity autoimmune diseases and allergy and intestinal diseases such as chronic intestinal inflammation irritable bowel syndrome and necrotizing enterocolitis .based on recent studies modulation of the antibiotic-induced disruption of gut microbiota with probiotics or prebiotics has been suggested as a desired treatment or prevention method.

the underlying mechanism may be that probiotics can promote an abundance of gut microbiota and a diversity of hosts by producing short-chain fatty acids scfas to restore the beneficial microbiota and enhance immunity and resistance to conditioned pathogen.

in addition the effect of fos was not good and the gut microbiota of mice treated in the fos-hcfx group was deviated from the original composition in the con group .the metagenomic analysis indicated that although the cefixime- induced change of gut microbiota could not be restored by fos to the initial pre-antibiotic level some beneficial genera were improved and restored by fos which may produce good effects to the gut and immunity.

when the gut microbiota change to a disrupted state fos might be used not only by lactobacillus or bifidobacterium but also by conditional pathogens such as actinobacter- ia enterococcus and olsenella which might lead to reversal of the restoration of antibiotic-induced disruptions of gut microbiota.

in this study the different recovery effects of two cocktails each contains four strains of lactobacillus and fructooligosaccharide against cefixime-induced change of gut microbiota were evaluated in c57bl6j mice.

fos treatment remarkably increased parabacteroides bacteroides and akkermansia but decreased bifidobacterium and lactobacillus compared to the control group.lactobacillus cocktail b performed better than that of cocktail a in restoring the gut microbiota after high-dose cefixime-induced gut alteration which may be related to potential benefits in vivo if the strains can use fos and have good adhesion capability to cell layers .

although a large number of probiotic strains are reported to have beneficial effects on antibiotic-induced low-grade inflammation of the gut some lactobacillus strains do not play a positive role in the recovery of antibiotic-induced gut distruption.

our research mainly focuses on the characteriza- tion of lactobacillus strains in vitro and the evaluation of different strains in the gut with antibiotic-induced imbalance.

all strains were isolated from traditional fermented foods including chinese pickled cabbage dairy products and camel yogurt.resistance to gastrointestinal conditions of lactobacillus strains in vitrothe tolerance to transit in the gastrointestinal tract was assessed in an in vitro model to simulate gastric and pancreatic juices as reported by .

