furthermore ultimate ch4 and co2 production yields in presence of activated carbon 1 was comparable to those obtained under non-inhibiting conditions while with activated carbon 2 they were respectively lowered by 17 and 4. these results indicated that the addition of activated carbon 1 efficiently mitigated tan inhibition by accel- erating biogas production kinetics without influencing tan con- centration.

improving anaerobic digestion with support media mitigation of ammonia inhibition and effect on microbial communitiessimon poirier  celine madigou theodore bouchez olivier chapleurhydrosystems and bioprocesses research unit irstea 1 rue pierre-gilles de gennes cs 10030 92761 antony cedex franceh i g h l i g h t s 10 gl of zeolite or of activated carbon mitigated inhibition caused by 19 gl of tan.zeolite preserved methanosarcina and reduced ch4 production lag phase kch4 by 47.activated carbon enhanced methanoculleus emergence and reduced kch4 by 22.under non-inhibiting conditions support media did not influence ad microbiota.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 16 january 2017received in revised form 14 march 2017 accepted 17 march 2017available online 21 march 2017keywordsmethanizationtotal ammonia nitrogen zeoliteactivated carbon chitosan16s rrna gene sequencinga b s t r a c t this study aimed at providing a better understanding of the influence of support media 10 gl of zeolites 10 gl of activated carbons and 1 gl of chitosan on key phylotypes steering anaerobic digestion ad performance in presence of 19 gl of total ammonia nitrogen tan within batch digesters.

interestingly this otu became predominant earlier in presence of activated carbon 1 than with activated carbon 2. therefore this observation could suggest that methanoculleus otu1 played a key role in promoting ch4 production when metha- nosarcina otu1 was inhibited.

however despite the presence of these otus lower ch4 production performance was observed in the digester incubated with activated carbon 2. therefore it seemed that it did not play a significant role in ch4 production.

in presence of activated carbon 1 methanoculleus became predominant earlier than without support while chitosan and activated carbon 2 limited its implantation.

in presence of activated carbon 1 lag time was reduced by 10 days while acti- vated carbon 2 led to an increase of 21 days of the lag time com- pared to inhibited digesters without support.

moreover compared to the digester without support zeolites did not enhance the emergence of thermotogaceae.in presence of activated carbon 1 family porphyromonadaceae predominance was relatively lower than in the digester incubated without support throughout the experiment however similarly to zeolites activated carbon 1 seemed to slightly enhance the emer- gence of families belonging to order bacteroidales such as marinil- abiaceae.

while under non-inhibiting conditions acti- vated carbon 2 did not influence anaerobic digestion performance in presence of 19 gl of tan its presence intensified tan inhibitory effect.

however in pres- ence of 6 g tanl observed that 1.5 ww of activated carbon resulted in an increase of the methane yield from 67 ml ch4g-vs up to 126 ml ch4g vs. this positive effect of acti- vated carbon 1 on anaerobic digestion could be attributed to an increase of biomass due to the micro colonization of this support  or to its high conductivity that can promote diet and syntrophy between different microbial populations .

activated carbon 2 had a smaller surface 600 m2g than activated carbon 1 600-800 m2g.

consistently with biogas kinetics both zeolites and acti- vated carbon 1 enhanced anaerobic degradation of these vfas while activated carbon 2 and chitosan led to longer complete degradation times.

hence activated carbon 1 tended to promote members of order clostridiales at the expense of family porphyromonadaceae.within incubations supplemented with activated carbon 2 family porphyromonadaceae reached similar relative abundance than without support.

this could be explained by differences in specific areas available for micro- organisms which was slightly higher for activated carbon 1 600- 800 m2g than for activated carbon 2 600 m2g which could lead to a better colonization by microbial populations.

since they were still present regardless support media addition it could be hypothesized that their higher abundance within reactors incubated with activated carbon 2 chitosan or without support was due to the non-growth of families which were preserved by zeolites and activated carbon 1 and which were prob- ably more sensitive to ammonia.

however although these otus did not grow with activated carbon 1 ch4 production was still enhanced compared to digesters without support.

