a effect of non-microbial fraction ok kefir cidca agk1 10 wv 24 h 20 degc added to nutrient broth in different concentrations  vv  0 v 25  50 d 75 and  100. b microorganism inoculated in  non-microbial fraction of kefir ph38  neutralised non-microbial fraction of kefir  supernatant of milk artificially acidified with lactic acid at ph 38 and  supernatant of milk artificially acidified with lactic acid and neutralised.c effect of the non-microbial fraction of kefir 5-fold concentrated at  ph 38 or  neutralised on the viability of pathogenic microorganisms.

in vitro assays using an intestinal epithelial cell model indicated that pre-incubation of cells with the non-microbial fraction of kefir did not modify the associationinvasion of salmonella whereas pre-incubation of salmonella with this fraction under conditions that did notaffect their viability significantly decreased the pathogen's ability to invade epithelial cells.lactate exerted a protective effect against salmonella in a mouse model demonstrating the rele- vance of metabolites present in the non-microbial fraction of kefir produced during milk fermentation.keywords kefir non-microbial fraction antimicrobial activity antagonism salmonella.kefir is a fermented milk sour slightly carbonated with a low alcohol content that is obtained by the fermentation of milk with kefir grains.

enterica serovar typhimurium atcc 14028 escherichia coli atcc 11229 and bacillus cereus atcc 10876 belonging to the american type culture collection atcc were also used.antimicrobial activity of the non-microbial fraction of kefirthe antimicrobial activity of the non-microbial fraction of kefir obtained by milk fermentation with cidca agk1 grains at 20 degc during 24 h was studied.

the institutional ethics committee on animal experimentation ceteaufmg approved the experiment under agreement number 962011.to evaluate the effects of the oral treatment with kefir non-microbial fraction of kefir and lactate 100 mm on the mortality during an experimental bacterial challenge a total of 60 animals were divided into 4 groups c control group n  20 mice receiving only sterile water k mice receiving kefir diluted 1  100 in sterile water n  10 nmfk mice receiving the non-microbial fraction of kefir n  10 l mice receiving sodium lactate solution 100 mm n  20. mice received treatments orally ad libitum during 10 d before challenge by oral gavage with salmonella typhimurium 105 cfu and all along the assay.

it should be noted that equivalent results were obtained for the non-microbial fraction obtained with both kefir grains employed which indicatesantimicrobial activity of non-microbial fraction of kefir343that the fermentation of milk with kefir grains avoids the pro- liferation of pathogenic microorganisms that can act as con- taminants thus contributing to the quality and safety of the product obtained as was also discussed previously by garrote et al.

it was also observed that the effect of the non-microbial fraction of kefir at acidic ph was bactericidal since no development of colonies was observed in plates seeded after 24 h of incu- bation with the non-microbial fraction in concentration 75 or 100 vv.

in order to detect other antimicrobial compo- nents that could be present at low concentration the acidic and neutralised non-microbial fraction of kefir was concen- trated 5-fold by lyophilisation and the growthsurvival of pathogens was analysed by counting viable microorganisms inoculated in the concentrated non-microbial fraction of kefir .

the non- microbial fraction of kefir obtained by fermentation of milk with cidca agk1 grains at 20 degc during 24 h was analysed and two experimental designs which evaluate the effect of either the salmonella- or cells-preincubation with non-microbial fraction of kefir were applied.

subsequently the development of pathogens was evaluated in the non-microbial fraction of kefir ph 38 and in the same fraction neutralised .

enteritidis were observed indicating that the components present in the non-microbial fraction did not produce changes on the cells that might modify the interaction with the pathogen.the in vivo effect of neutralised kefir and non-bacterial fraction of kefir were analysed in a murine model of salmonella infection.

journal of dairy research 2017 84 339-345.c proprietors of journal of dairy research 2017doi10.1017s0022029917000358339biological activity of the non-microbial fraction of kefir antagonism against intestinal pathogenscarolina iraporda12 mario abatemarco junior3 elisabeth neumann3 alvaro cantini nunes3 jacques r nicoli3 analia g abraham14 and graciela l. garrote1centro de investigacion y desarrollo en criotecnologia de alimentos cidca unlp-conicet calle 47 y 116. la plata 1900 bs.

the aim of this work was to char- acterise the non-microbial fraction of kefir and to study its antagonism against escherichia coli salmonella spp.

the non-microbial fraction of kefir added to nutrient broth at concentrations above 75 vv induced a complete inhibition of pathogenic growth that could be ascribed to the presence of un-dissociated lactic acid.

considering the possible relevance of the role of bac- terial metabolites in the biological activity of fermented milk the objective of the present study was to obtain and characterise the non-microbial fraction of kefir and toevaluate their biological activity focusing on the analysis of the antimicrobial activity against escherichia coli salmonella spp.

the non-microbial fraction of kefir nmfk was obtained by centrifugation at 10 000 g for 15 min at room tempera- ture avanti j25 beckman coulter inc. usa and filtration of the supernatant obtained through a 045 um of pore diam- eter millipore corporation usa.

