patients with nonpneumonic ecopd who were deceased showed elevated median baseline tmao levels compared with survivors whereas no significant difference in median tmao levels was found in patients with pneumonic ecopd .in the overall cohort univariate cox regression analysis revealed an association of tmao with 6-y all-cause mortality which resulted in a hr of 1.8 95 ci 1.2-3.0 p 0.01. results for 30-d mortality were similar but of borderline significance with a hr of 3.3 95 ci 1.0-11.0 p 0.052. additionally as shown in  the association between tmao and mortality after 6 y of follow-up was also of borderline significance in both patients with pneumonic and nonpneumonic ecopd with a hr of 2.0 95 ci 1.0-3.9 p 0.052 and 1.8 95 ci 0.9-3.5p 0.076 respectively.

third high levels of tmao correlated with different factors and comorbidities namely age bmi diabetes mellitus and impaired kidney function.long-term all-cause mortality rate in patients with copd is substantial.pneumonicandnonpneumonicexacerbations are the most likely causes of death in patients with severe copd but cardiovascular diseases are the most likely causes of death in patients with mild to moderate copd .

whether tmao levels can be influenced additionally by nutritional interventions and whether this would possibly benefit patients with copd should be addressed in future studies.acknowledgmentthe authors are thankful to all patients patients' relatives and all local general practitioners who participated in this study.

chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd is a prevalent disease worldwide with a high associated risk for cardiovascular disease and death due to an infectious cause.aims to study whether tmao is predictive for adverse clinical outcomes in patients with exacerbated copd.methods a total of 189 patients with copd exacerbation were prospectively followed for a median of 6.1 y. tmao plasma levels at the time of emergency department admission were measured by liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry.

importantly patients who suffer from copd are at a higher risk for cardiovascular diseases  which are the most likely cause of death in patients with mild to moderate copd .

herein our objective was to investigate the associa- tion of the proinflammatory metabolite tmao with all-cause mortality in patients who suffer from a pneumonic or non- pneumonic copd exacerbation from a previous trial.methodsstudy designa total of 189 patients with a medical history of copd and available blood samples from a previous swiss multicenter study were included in this analysis.

overall there was a high burden of comorbidities especially in patients who were deceased within 6 y. these patients weretable 2study sample characteristics overall and stratified by copd exacerbation typebmi body mass index copd chronic obstructive pulmonary disease crp c-reactive protein pct procalcitonin tmao trimethylamine-n-oxide data are presented as median interquartile range or percentage n. bolded p values are statistically significant at p  0.05 comorbidities were identified on the basis of medical records patient report or both.138m.

participants with pneumonic ecopd had a higher body temperature longer antibiotic treatment and higher inflam- matory blood markers at baseline compared with patients with nonpneumonic ecopd.association of tmao with all-cause mortalitythe all-cause mortality rate of the entire copd cohort was 6.3 n 14 12 at 30-d follow-up and increased to 55.6 after 6 y. as presented in  median tmao levels mmoll were higher in patients who were deceased within 6 y compared with survivors 3.9 interquartile range iqr 2.3-7.1 versus 2.9 iqr1.8-4.7 p 0.01. no difference was found in median tmao levels between the two exacerbation types .

in patients with nonpneumonic ecopd we solely found an asso- ciation between tmao levels and ckd.discussionthe principal findings of this first study to evaluate the pre- dictive value of tmao in patients with ecopd were threefold.

the gut microbiota-dependent tmao was found to be associated with mortality in patients with stable coronary artery disease  ckd  chf  and community-acquired pneumonia .the present study extends these findings to patients with copd where an association of elevated tmao levels and all- cause mortality was observed.

also it would be important to understand how changes in comorbidities and metabolic characteristics influence tma levels and its predictive value for cardiovascular disease and mortality.the strengths of our study were the high accuracy of the laboratory measurement methods and the well-characterized cohort of patients with ecopd of different severities that are representative for patients who are usually treated in eds and hospitals.

applied nutritional investigationgut microbiota-dependent trimethylamine-n-oxide is associated with long-term all-cause mortality in patients with exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary diseasemanuel ottiger m.d.

results all-cause mortality was 55.6 after 6 y. the deceased patients showed significantly higher median admission tmao mmoll levels compared with survivors 3.9 interquartile range 2.3-7.1 versus 2.9 interquartile range 1.8-4.7 p 14 0.01 which resulted in an unadjusted hazard ratio of 1.8 95 confidence interval 1.2-3.0 p 14 0.01. this association was no longer significant after multivariate adjustment.

higher age higher body mass index diabetes mellitus and chronic kidney disease werepredictors for increased plasma tmao levels in linear regression analysis.conclusions increased circulating tmao levels per se were associated with long-term all-cause mortality in patients with copd independent of type of exacerbation.

additionally an independent associa- tion of tmao with long-term all-cause mortality was found in patients with congestive heart failure chf chronic kidney disease ckd and community-acquired pneumonia .

