moreover production of polymeric matrix tends to shield biofilm cells from drug penetration and the slow growth rate promotes robust biofilm formation which play a pivotal role in the persis- tence of infection .

therefore this review present some potential and alterna- tive therapies that can be utilised to manage biofilm formation in oral candidiasis.anti-candida biofilm therapystreptococcus mutans biomolecules therapyfungi and bacteria can coexist to increase the frequency or severity of diseases.

however the formation of biofilm which constitutes the anio- nic extracellular matrix tend to inhibit the penetration of some anionic ps agents but the use of cationic agents like methylene blue has been shown to inactivate candida biofilm without affect- ing c. albicans cells .

the fact that biofilm formation is inac- tivated combining this therapy with conventional antifungal agents may effectively modulate oral candida infections and this strategy can be considered for further exploration with humansubjects.a successful in vivo inactivation of c. albicans with a combina- tion of methylene blue and red laser light in a murine model was reported in oral candidiasis whereas the reduction in the via- bility of c. albicans biofilm was observed in photogem-mediated pdt without causing damage to the tongue tissue .

the potential management of oral candidiasis using anti-biofilm therapieswarren chanda thomson p. joseph wendong wang arshad a. padhiar mintao zhong dalian medical university department of microbiology college of basic medical sciences chinaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 8 april 2017accepted 30 june 2017keywordsoral candidiasis candida albicans lactoferrins probioticsphotodynamic therapy biofilm therapya b s t r a c t candida albicans is a minor component of the oral microbiota and an opportunistic pathogen that takes advantage of the immunocompromised host and causes oral mucositis and oral candidiasis.

this organ- ism is able to undergo phenotypic modification from a yeast to hyphae growth phase one of the key arse- nals for immune cell evasion tissue invasion and biofilm formation.

however the chronicity of this oral infection arise owing to the debilitated host inability to clear off or minimize biofilm formation and spread.

the process of biofilm formation begins with 1 adherence of a cell to the substratum 2 proliferation of the attached cells forming microcolonies and deposition of an extracellular matrix and 3 the transition of yeast cells to filamentous types i.e.

thus adherencecolonization filamentation and matrix production describes candida biofilm development while its pathogenicity has been related to hyphal formation .

this ability of biofilm formation by the fungus c. albicans has contributed to its exhibited resistance to commonly utilised antifungal agents.

interestingly planktonic cells are susceptible to most antifungal agents while their biofilm counterpart may exhibit resistance .

suppressing hyphae formation may reduce the pathogenicity of candida species and disrupting biofilm development may as well reduce the resistance pattern of the fungi.

the existence of c. albicans in biofilm the ability to produce hyphae and the ability to adhere to mucosal and indwelling med- ical implants makes it a causative agent for candidiasis .

there- fore antimicrobial agents or strategies with the capacity to suppress dimorphic switching and modulate biofilm development can regulate and maintain the homeostatic balance of microbial flora thereby protecting the host from candidiasis .

since the resistance pattern in candida biofilm related infections are widely spread to several classes of antifungal agents  identification of potential antifungal agents or alternative strategies is much needed.

