recipient mice were sacrificed 2 weeks post-transfer and iga production was analyzed.bone marrow chimerassix-week-old rag1-- mice were irradiated with sublethal dose 4 gy of x-ray followed by intraperitoneal injection with 1 x 107 mixed bone marrow cells isolated from wt and ccr6-- mice with different isoforms of cd45 wtccr6--  11. for the bone marrow chimera experiments 15 chimeric mice were gen-erated 5 mice were reconstituted with mixed bone marrow from wt cd45.1cd45.2 and ccr6-- cd45.1 4 mice werereconstituted with mixed bone marrow from wt cd45.1 and ccr6-- cd45.1cd45.2 6 mice were reconstituted with mixed bone marrow from wt cd45.1 and ccr6-- cd45.2.

jh-- mice receiving pp naive b cells from ccr6-- mice showed fewer iga-bearing cells in the si-lp  reduced serum iga  and reduced fecal iga  compared to jh-- mice receiving pp naive b cells from wt mice.

interestingly both the frequency and the absolute number of gc b cells were increased in wt mice upon oral challenge with ctx however gc b cells in ccr6-- mice failed to expand after challenge even though the frequency of these cells was higher in ccr6-- mice than in wt mice during homeostasis .

representative histograms indicating the expression of ccr6 pd-l2 and cd73 on iga-bearing memory b cells are shown c. representative contour plots left panel and the frequency of pd-l2 and cd73 double-positive iga-bearing memory b cells in wt and ccr6-- mice right panel are shown d.representative contour plots and the frequency of iga-bearing memory b cells positive for active caspase 3 and annexin v in wt and ccr6-- mice are shown e. fg sections of paraffin-embedded pps from wt and ccr6-- mice were subjected to immunofluorescence assay ifa for the detection of iga red and ccl20 green f or iga red and b220 green g. pps from four mice wt n  2 ccr6-- n  2 were processed and examined.

to examine whether ccr6 expressed on b cells had an intrinsic effect on iga production we trans- ferred equal numbers of naive b cells isolated from the pps of wt or ccr6-- mice into jh-- mice or rag1-- mice.

however rag1-- mice receiving naive b cells from the pps of wt mice or ccr6-- mice showed similar levels of serum iga and fecal iga .

interestingly the frequencies of naive b cells b220cd95-pnaintigdigm and pre-gc b cells b220cd95pnahiigd were significantly decreased in ccr6-- mice  whereas the frequency of gc b cells b220cd95pnahi was significantly increased in ccr6-- mice as compared to wt mice .

thus we examined bcl6 expression in the pre-gc b cells of wt and ccr6-- mice and found sig- nificantly lower levels of bcl6 expression in the pre-gc b cellsof ccr6-- mice as compared to wt mice .

the reduced bcl6 expression in the pre-gc b cells in ccr6-- mice may affect the sustained t-b cell interactions and gc reactions leading to insufficient generation of iga in ccr6-- mice and providing an explanation for the observed reduction of iga generation in ccr6-- mice.to further demonstrate the intrinsic effect of ccr6 on iga- bearing gc b cells we generated mixed bone marrow chimeras by reconstituting rag1-- recipients with bone marrow from wt and ccr6-- mice mixed at a 11 ratio.

accordingly the generation of ctx-specific iga was significantly lower in both serum and the intestines of ccr6-- mice .together these results demonstrate that ccr6 deficiency affects gc structure and functionality in pps leading to impaired generation of iga-bearing gc b cells and reduced production of antigen-specific iga.the generation of iga-bearing memory b cells in pps is significantly decreased in ccr6-- miceknowing that ccr6-- mice showed fewer iga-bearing gc b cells  we expected that ccr6-- mice would produce fewer iga-bearing memory b cells.

the frequencies of caspase 3-activated cells and annexin v cells were significantly increased in iga-bearing memory b cells in ccr6-- mice  but not in iga- bearing gc b cells or naive b cells data not shown suggesting that iga memory b cells without ccr6 expression are indeed prone to apoptosis.interestingly examining the anatomical localization of iga- bearing cells in pps using ifa we found that there were iga- bearing cells within the sed and that fewer iga-bearing cells were localized within the sed in ccr6-- mice as compared to wt mice .

following the transfer of the same batch of pp lymphocytes from either wt or ccr6-- mice into wt or ccr6-- recipient mice ccr6-- recipient mice showed significantly decreased migration of both naive b cells and iga-bearing memory b cells compared to wt recipientmice naive b cells wt - wt vs. wt - ccr6-- p  0.01 ccr6-- - wt vs. ccr6-- - ccr6-- p  0.01 iga memory b cells wt - wt vs. wt - ccr6-- p  0.05 ccr6-- - wtvs.

these results support the conclusion that ccr6 deficiency alters the milieu of pps which may affect pp functionality.ccr6-- mice show reduced frequency of th17 cells in ppssince we found that il-17 level is significantly reduced in pps of ccr6-- mice  and it is known that th17 cells play a role in gc reactions   we hypothesized that the reduced level of il-17 in ccr6-- mice might result in part from the reduced frequency and number of th17 cells which impair gc reactions in pps and affect iga production.

however the ratio of tfh cells to gc b cells in the pps of ccr6-- mice was significantly decreased as compared to wt mice  pro- viding an explanation for the observed impairment of gc reactions in ccr6-- mice.

although the frequencies of rorgt- expressing cells and b cells in ilfs were comparable in ccr6--mice and wt mice the majority of ilfs in ccr6-- mice were small-sized ilfs suggesting that ccr6 regulates ilf maturation  consistent with previous report .

