statistical significance p  0.05 was determined using one-way anova analysis followed by dunnett's post-hoc test liver or a student's t-test serum performed in sas 9.3. fecal pellets were collected from two cages ofco-housed mice for each treatment group n 2 and therefore statistical analysis was not performed.hepatic conjugated primary bile acid levels max 4.7-fold including glycocholic acid gca 3.9-fold tauro- cholic acid tca 9.7-fold and tauro-a-muricholic acid t-a-mca 3.7-fold fig.

overall ahr-mediated differential expression of bile acid transporters is consistent with bile acid accumu- lation as well as reduced bile flow and biliary excretion in tcdd-treated rodents.increased secondary bile acid levels provide indirect evidence of microbial bile acid metabolism and changes in the gut microbiota.

additionally the secondary bile acid deoxycholic acid dca was increased 79.7-fold.figure 5. hydrophobicity indices hix of bile acid mixtures in the liver serum and feces of male c57bl6 mice orally gavaged with sesame oil vehicle or tcdd 3-30 ugkg tcdd every 4 days for 28 days.

we demon- strate that tcdd altered primary and secondary bile acid profiles consistent with changes in bile acid transport gut microbiota metabolism and intestinal permeability and motility.in this study tcdd dose-dependently increased total bile acid levels in the liver and serum as previously reported in rodent studies involving ahr agonists   .

mass spectrometry analysis detected a 4.6-fold increase in total hepatic bile acid levels despite the coordinated repression of genes involved in cholesterol and primary bile acid biosynthesis including cyp7a1.

specifically tcdd elicited a 200-fold increase in taurolithocholic acid tlca a potent g protein-coupled bile acid receptor 1 gpbar1 agonist associated with bile duct proliferation.

these results suggest that systemicalterations in enterohepatic circulation as well as host and microbiota bile acid metabolism favor bile acid accumulation that contributes to ahr-mediated hepatotoxicity.metabolic syndrome mets is defined as a collection of cardiometabolic factors including obesity dyslipidemia hypertension and hyperglycemia which increase the risk of developing cardiovascular disease type ii diabetes and hepatocellular carcinoma.

additionally specific bile acid species are endogenous ligands for a number of receptors including farnesoid x receptor fxr g protein-coupled bile acid receptor 1 gpbar1 pregnane x receptor pxr vitamin d receptor vdr liver x receptor a lxra and sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 s1p2 .

therefore bile acid accumulation andor disrupted biliary flow cholestasis can contribute to hepatotoxicity and impaired liver function while promoting the development of fibrosis.previous studies have reported that tcdd and related ahr ligands increase bile acid levels in serum decrease biliary flow and induce bile duct epithelial cell proliferation.

despite the coordinated repression of genes involved in cholesterol and primary bile acid biosynthesis total bile acid levels increased in the liver and serum while fecal levels decreased.

overall tcdd-elicited differential expression of bile acid transporters increased intestinal permeability decreased gut motility and alterations in the gut microbiome suggest disruption of enterohepatic circulation and bile acid metabolism.

in humans the two primary bile acids synthesized directly by the liver are cholic acid ca and chenodeoxycholic acid cdca.

rodent livers hydroxylate cdca at the 6b-positon yielding a-muricholic acid a-mca which can epimerize at the 7-oh position to form b-muricholic acid b-mca and therefore ab-mca are also primary bile acids in mice.

fecal levels of cholic acid 7-sulfate ca-7-so4 and taurocholic acid 3-sulfate tca-3-so4 were decreased 55.2- and 10.3-fold respectively while deoxycholic aciddisulfate dca-di-so4 levels increased 4.9-fold.

the potential toxicity of a bile acid mixture can be estimated by calculating the hydrophilic-hydrophobic balance using the hydrophobicity index hix of each bile acid species in the mixture as described by heuman.

