these findings demonstrated for the first time that afam and hispanic adolescents that carried oral aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans aa bacteria had a one in five chance of developing serious bone loss at an early age that leads to tooth loss.polymerase chain reaction pcr has revolutionized the ability to detect specific bacterial species from biologic samples such as from the oral cavity.

the children received anticipatory guidance a professional fluoride treatment customized oral hygiene guidance upon dental examination and oral sample collection.limited periodontal exams that involved collecting periodontal parameters e.g.

the following are acknowledged for their support of the microbiome resource at the university of alabama at birmingham school of medicine comprehensive cancer center p30ar050948 center for aids research 5p30ai027767 center for clinical translational science ul1tr000165 and heflin center.childers et al.page 7bibiographyeke pi dye ba wei l et al.

scatterplot  bop 6 sites probed per tooth for permanent incisors and first molar teeth with mean  median -- and 95 confidence interval shaded box for 12 subjects that did not have aa detected by pcr analysis of oral samples  and 9 subjects that were aa positive .aa  group significantly higher by t-test p  0.014.childers et al.page 10fig.

scatterplot  pd4 6 measurements per tooth for permanent incisors and first molar teeth with mean  median -- and 95 confidence interval shaded box for 12 subjects that did not have aa detected by pcr analysis of oral samples - and 9 subjects that were aa positive .aa  group significantly higher by t-test p  0.006.childers et al.page 11fig.

112220abstractpurpose--this pilot study evaluated the potential risk for localized aggressive periodontitis lagp in african-american afam pre-adolescent children by detection of the potential periodontal pathogen aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans aa using pcr and microbiome analysis of oral samples.methods--twenty-one pre-adolescents age range 10.7-13.1 years were recruited for this irb approved study.

oral examination included limited periodontal examination determining bleeding index bop and periodontal probing pd.

an oral mucosa sample of was used for analysis.results--nine of 21 children were positive for aa aa by pcr.

further study is indicated however the usefulness of pcr in dental practice setting to assess risk may be cost-effective for early diagnosis and prevention of lagp.corresponding author dr. noel k. childers department of pediatric dentistry university of alabama at birmingham school of dentistry room 304 1720 2nd avenue south birmingham al 35294-0007 usa tel 205-934-3230 fax 205-934-7013the authors declare no conflicts of interest.childers et al.page 2keywordslocalized aggressive periodontitis aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans african american adolescentintroductionperiodontal disease is a serious problem in underserved populations in the us1 and the resulting tooth loss effects are far reaching leading to compromised dietary quality among older individuals2 poor esthetic self-image poor dental development and overall poor health3.

this problem is related to other oral health disparities especially in underservedafrican american afam communities.

wu5 studied oral health disparities and found that afam had significantly more decayed teeth and that fewer filled teeth and that among thosewith some teeth they were missing more teeth than caucasians.

sabbah6 found higher probabilities of poor oral health gingival bleeding periodontitis and tooth loss among afam than in caucasians all associated with education and income levels.

there is currently limited dental care available to youths in this communitychilders et al.page 3which requires travelling thirty miles for dental care.

we also wanted to determine if the overall composition of the oral microbiome was influenced by the presence or absence of aa.methods and materialspopulation and informationa convenience sample of twenty-nine preadolescent-aged unrelated african-american fifth and sixth grade children at the local elementary school in uniontown alabama that responded to a parental letter that was sent from school were recruited to participate in this study.

no radiographs were obtained or used in clinical assessment of periodontal oral health.

