hallii utilization of mucin monosaccharideswe then investigated whether e. hallii was indeed able to uti- lize monosaccharide components released by b. bifidum from mucin.

we confirmed here that growth on mucin is an intrinsic trait of the species b. bifidum   and that among the infant bifidobacterium species tested only the presence of b. bifidum enabled growth of other bifidobacteria or of e. hallii due to the release of monosaccharides andorfig.

2010 genome anal- ysis of bifidobacterium bifidum prl2010 reveals metabolic pathways for host-derived glycan foraging proc natl acad sci u s a 10719514-19519turroni f milani c van sinderen d ventura m 2011 genetic strategies for mucin metabolism in bifidobacterium bifidum prl2010 an example of possible human-microbe co-evolution gut microbes 2183-189pham vt lacroix c braegger cp chassard c 2016 early colo- nization of functional groups of microbes in the infant gut environ microbiol 182246-2258duncan sh barcenilla a stewart cs pryde se flint hj 2002 acetate utilization and butyryl coenzyme a coaacetate coa transferase in butyrate-producing bacteria from the human large intestine appl environ microbiol 685186-5190naseem s konopka jb 2015 n-acetylglucosamine regulates vir- ulence properties in microbial pathogens plos pathog 11 e1004947magnusdottir s heinken a kutt l et al.

the ratios of scfa formed differed depending on the microbial species involved in mucin cross-feeding.keywords mucin .

however mucin degradation requires several linkage-specific degradative enzymes thus only a low num- ber of microbes are specialized to degrade mucin glycans .

the ability to cross- feed on hmos could be one reason why e. hallii is present in the infant gut however this species could also profit from a mucin specialist releasing or fermenting mono- and disaccha- rides from mucin glycans.

for single and co- culture experiments in the presence of mucin mycfa contained 0.75 mucin instead of glucose mycfamuc.

for selected samples representing at least one isolate of the investigated species metabolite formation was determined after 48-h growth in api medium with mucin120100806040200retention time mingenetic capacity of e. hallii for mucin monosaccharide utilization210 6105molecular weight da104to identify mucin monosaccharide utilization pathways the genome of e. hallii dsm samn02415618 was obtained from the ncbi database and functional assignment was auto- matically performed using the rast .fig.

shown are representative mucin degradation profiles during growth in api medium supplied with 1 mucin.

the utilization of mucin as an alternativeglycan source to hmos might depend on infant diet as a study in the early 1990s showed that the development of a mucin-degrading microbial community was significantly de- layed in breast-fed compared to formula-fed infants .both bifidobacteria and e. hallii were able to produce for- mate during the degradation of mucin and fucosyllactose  however formate is rarely detected in infant feces .

among the bifidobacteria only bifidobacterium bifidum is able to degrade mucin and to release monosaccharides which can be used by other gut microbes col- onizing the infant gut.

we aimed to demonstrate that mucin cross- feeding initiated by b. bifidum enables growth and metabolite formation of e. hallii leading to short-chain fatty acid scfa formation.

the only bifidobacterium species that can degrade and grow in the presence of mucin is b. bifidum -.

b. bifidum degrades hmos and mucin extracellularly through the activity of membrane-bound enzymes  enabling cross-feeding of other species.

bifidum from mucin glycans .bifidobacteria metabolize hexoses via the bbifid shunt with fructose-6-phosphoketolase being the key enzyme to the- oretically yield 1.5 mol acetate 1 mol lactate and 2.5 atp from 1 mol glucose .

