bioavailable inorganic reductants and oxidants may exert substantial influences on the abundance diversity activity distribution and dynamics of marine chemolithoautotrophs and thus the energy environment may play important roles in chemolithoautotrophic carbon fixation and carbon sequestration  .

these may be the major reasons that the abundance of nob in most marine environments is usually very low     except in the brine-seawater interface layer of the red sea where nitrospina-like nob may constitute up to one- third of the bacterial community  .

furthermore most denitrifiers are facultative anaerobes and can rapidly switch among different energetic pathways in response to changing environmental conditions   while anammox bacteria are obligate anaerobes and they may prefer stable environmental conditions.as anammox bacteria and denitrifying microorganisms occupy similar environments they may compete for nitrate and nitrite as electron acceptors for energy transduction.

how and to what extent elevated seawater temperatures caused by global warming may directly affect the ecophysiology of marine aob aoa and nob are still difficult to predict.in addition to the direct effects global warming may also exert certain indirect effects on the marine nitrifying microbiota and their eco-energetic and carbon-fixing activities.

ocean acidification may reduce marine biodiversity and fisheries as well due to acidification-induced animal physiological stresses andor acidification-induced changes in the ecosystem's trophic transfer efficiency        .ocean acidification may exert significant impacts on marine biogeochemical cycles.

ocean acidification may change the composition of the ammonia-oxidizing communities in which urease-harboring aoa and aob may gain more importance as they can use urea as a source of ammonia and co2 for both energy transduction and carbon fixation        .

these situations may alter the major metabolic pathways and functional services of the affected ecosystems.hypoxic and anoxic environments may facilitate microbial nitrogen fixation  .

furthermore the diazotrophic abundance and activity may also be controlled by the availability of phosphate andor iron which may vary in different marine environments    .

this situation may be tackled by future investigations and modeling in which the incorporation of the microbial eco-energetic constraints may be helpful.chemolithoautotrophic responses to environmental trace element variations and heavy metal pollutionsecosystem energy flow interconnects with the interweaved biogeochemical cycles of carbon nitrogen phosphorus sulfur and many other elements such as biological trace metals    .

the advent of new techniques may bring the dawn to scientific breakthroughs that necessitate the multidisciplinary combination of eco-energetic biogeochemical and omics studies in this field.keywords carbon cycle chemolithoautotrophy energy metabolism global change global warming nitrogen cycle ocean acidification ocean deoxygenationchemolithoautotrophic microbiota to changes in the marineenvironment.

even so energy may be a limited resource for certain marine ecosystems       .

they provided the first evidences about the importance of microbial chemolithoautotrophy for energy and matter flows in nature andstimulated the search of life's origin on earth and beyond     .chemolithoautotrophic microorganisms may contribute substantially to primary production in non-extreme marine environments as well.

the twilight zone and deep ocean chemolithoautotrophs also contribute to the production and accumulation of quite an amount 5-10 um of semi-labile dissolved organic carbon doc   which may be further transformed by microorganisms to produce recalcitrant doc rdoc  .

the in situ primary production of chemolithoautotrophs may provide an important source of organic matter in addition to that released from sinking particles hydrothermal vents and cold seeps   to fuel the activities of the deep-ocean microbiota.

produced by in situ chemolithoautotrophs or released from sinking particles hydrothermal vents or cold seeps may have different molecular structures and bio-utilizabilities and thus different residence times in the ocean.

