dha a product of probiotic metabolism increases intestinal permeability highlighting the complex interactions between food microbiota probiotics and intestinal inflammation.keywords probiotics metabolomicsmetabolite profiling inflammatory bowel diseases animal studies intestinal permeability macrophage activation cytokines and inflammation rage receptorintroductionthe world health organization's defined probiotics in 2001 as live microorganisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit on the host.

however a significant recovery in body weight figure 1a and cdai score figure 1b was observed with vsl3-a starting from day 7 of administrationwhile treating dss-mice with vsl3-b failed to improve signs and symptoms of colitis.measurement of intestinal permeability using a fitc-dextran figure 1c demonstrated that while vsl3-a reversed the damaging effect of dss on the intestinal barrier vsl3-b did the opposite and increased the intestinal permeability 10-folds in comparison to dss alone p  0.01 vs. dss alone and dss plus vsl3-a.

both lotsinflammatory bowel diseases ibds resulting from impaired intestinal response to antigens derived from the intestinal microbiota in genetically predisposed individuals de souza and fiocchi 2016 neurath 2017. the ibds have traditionally been treated with non-specific immunosuppressive drugs such as corticosteroids anti-inflammatory agents and more recently with inhibitors of tnfa mosli et al.

each batch was maintained at 4c and handled according to the manufacturerinstructions.dss colitisbecause vsl3 modulates the integrity of intestinal mucosal barrier we have first investigated whether the two batches effectively reduce intestinal damage caused by feeding mice with dss in drinking water.

pyruvate uracil 1-3 dha and uridine with the last two showing a three-folds enrichment insamples obtained from vsl3-b in comparison with vsl3-a table 1.effect of dha on intestinal permeabilitybecause dha is part of fructose metabolism we have then investigated whether feeding mice with this agent reproduced the same effects observed in mice administered vsl3-b on intestinal permeability.

additionally we have shown that dha a metabolite generated by bacterial metabolism increases intestinal permeability highlighting the complex interactions between food intestinal microbiota probiotics and inflammation.author contributionsmb sc ac and sm carried out animal studies molecular biology analysis and histopathology and co-wrote the manuscript ll cp bv carried out metabolomic studies elaborate statistic of metabolomic data and co-wrote the manuscript ps carried out immunohistochemistry studies and co-wrote the manuscript ed and sf conceived the study and wrote the manuscript.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found supplementary figure 1  balbc mice were treated with tnbs and then administered with vsl3-a vsl3-b or dexamethasone 5 mgkgday.

8505.doi background in addition to strain taxonomy the ability of probiotics to confer beneficial effects on the host rely on a number of additional factors including epigenetic modulation of bacterial genes leading to metabolic variability and might impact on probiotic functionality.aims to investigate metabolism and functionality of two different batches of a probiotic blend commercialized under the same name in europe in models of intestinal inflammation.methods boxes of vsl3 a probiotic mixture used in the treatment of pouchitis were obtained from pharmacies in uk subjected to metabolomic analysis and their functionality tested in mice rendered colitis by treatment with dss or tnbs.results vsl3-a lot dm538 but not vsl3-b lot 507132 attenuated clinical signs of colitis in the dss and tnbs models.

in both models vsl3-a but not vsl3-b reduced macroscopic scores intestinal permeability and expression of tnfa il-1b and il-6 mrnas while increased the expression of tgfb and il-10 occludin and zonula occludens-1 zo-1 mrnas and shifted colonic macrophages from a m1 to m2 phenotype p  0.05 vs. tnbs.

in contrast vsl3-b failed to reduce inflammation and worsened intestinal permeability in the dss model p  0.001 vs. vsl3-a.

feeding mice with dha increased intestinal permeability.conclusions two batches of a commercially available probiotic show divergent metabolic activities.

the results of these studies revealed that only one vsl3 mixture exerted beneficial effects while the other had no effect or even worsened the severity of intestinal inflammation.

we also report that challenging mice with dha increases intestinal permeability.materials and methodsprobioticscrohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are two chronictwo different lots of vsl3qrwere used in this study.

each parameter was scored from 0 to 4 as described in the supplementary table 1.measurement of intestinal permeabilityeight- to ten-week old balb-c mice both male and female were administered 1-3 dha for 14 days per os by gavage at the following dose 100 ul of 90 mgml 1 m or 9 mgml 0.1 m solution of 1-3 dha dha m.w.

we used the same reagent to study the intestinal permeability in balbc mice with colitis induced by dss on day 8. fitc-dextran was dissolved in pbs at a concentration of 100 mgml and administered to each mouse at the dose of 44 mg100 g body weight by oral gavage.

moreover the immunohistochemistry analysis of occludin figure 1i and zonula occludens-1 zo-1 figure 1j revealed that while dss caused a disruption of intestinal tight junctions and severely reduced the expression and tissue distribution of both proteins this pattern was reversed by treating mice with vsl3-a.

