in this context others demonstrated that the onset of skin inflammation in nfkbiz-- is independent of the th2 response by showing that dermatitis still developed in nfkbiz--stat6-- mice.

to investigate which genes are involved in the regulation of skin inflammation induced by resi- dent bacteria in the absence of the nfkbiz gene we compared the gene expression profiles in the skin tissues of nfkbiz- mice nfkbiz-- mice and antibiotic-treated nfkbiz-- mice.

once we confirmed the development of dermatitis in nfkbiz-- mice we performed further experiments.il-17a- and il-22-secreting skin-resident t cells increased in nfkbiz-- mice.

overall decreased bacterial diversity with the striking expansion of s. xylosus occurred in the skin of nfkbiz-- mice with dermatitis.figure 2. il-17a- and il-22-secreting t cells infiltrate into skin of nfkbiz-- mice.

to support this amelioration of skin inflammation we found significantly lower levels of tewl and ige abs in the antibiotic-treated nfkbiz-- mice than in the untreated nfkbiz-- mice fig.

a and f. p  0.05 p  0.01. n.d. not detected.antibiotic-treated nfkbiz-- mice than in untreated nfkbiz-- mice fig.

by analysis with the ipa software downregulation of the nf-kb signal pathway was predicted in the skin of nfkbiz-- mice in the absence of resident microbiota after antibiotic treatment in comparison with that in untreated nfkbiz-- mice fig.

the introduction of s. xylosus to the skin of nfkbiz-- mice resulted in the predominant expansionfigure 6. abx treatment reduces gene expression related to inflammation in skin of nfkbiz-- mice.

il-23 produced by keratinocytes in response to endogenous tlr4 ligands polarized skin dcs to stimulate thefigure 7. topical application of s. xylosus leads to differentiation of th17 cells in skin of nfkbiz-- mice.a flow cytometry analysis of il-17a and il-22 production in cd4 cells from skin of pbs heat-killed s. xylosus hk-s.x or s. xylosuss.x-inoculated nfkbiz-- mice.

of note the inocula- tion of s. xylosus in the skin of nfkbiz-- and their heterozygous littermates nfkbiz- resulted in the expansion of il-17a production from cd4 t cells.resultsnfkbiz-- mice developed spontaneous skin inflammation.

the expansion of commensal s. xylosus may be one cause of skin dysbiosis in nfkbiz-- mice and suggests that the nfkbiz gene may play a regulatory role in the microbiota-skin immunity axis.the skin acts as an important physical barrier that is directly exposed to numerous pathogens in the environ- ment.

in labora- tory mice s. xylosus has been associated with spontaneous dermatitis in both nos2-- miceand athymic nude miceand with conjunctivitis in nadph oxidase-- mice implying that s. xylosus is an opportunistic patho- gen. although microorganisms are not the only inducers of skin disease it seems likely that microbial alteration and the predominance of specific resident bacteria directly affect dermatitis severity.as gut microbes are associated with gut immunity commensal microbiota in the skin also play a pivotal role in local immunity to maintain homeostasis both in a steady state and during infection.

nfkbiz-deficient nfkbiz-- mice develop spontaneous dermatitis however the underlying mechanism has yet to be elucidated.

in our study we found higher skin pathology scores and more serum ige antibodies and trans-epidermal water loss in nfkbiz-- than in nfkbiz-sufficient nfkbiz- mice.

there was also greater expansion of ifn-g- il- 17a- and il-22-secreting cd4 t cells and of il-17a-secreting gd t cells in the skin of nfkbiz-- mice than in with nfkbiz- mice.

