address correspondence to david dunkin md icahn school of medicine at mount sinai 1 gustave l. levy place box 1656 new york ny 10029 e-maildavid.dunkinmssm.edu.copyright c 2017 crohn's  colitis foundation doi 10.1097mib.0000000000001273published online 9 october 2017.1972  inflamm bowel dis  volume 23 number 11 november 2017epicutaneous immunotherapy delivering antigen with viaskin patches suppresses food allergy and eosinophilic esophagitis in mice by treg-dependent mechanisms.1617 epicutaneous tolerance induc- tion et to haptens can also suppress colitis induced by the same hapten.1819 we investigated whether et to a model dietary protein antigen could suppress colitis in an antigen-nonspecific or bystander manner which is essential for application of et as a therapeutic strategy in ibd where inciting antigens are multiple or unknown.we demonstrate that et can be achieved by epicutaneous antigen exposure to the same extent as that which is induced orally in a tgf-b-dependent manner.

4f.these data demonstrate that et effectively prevents and halts the progression of disease via bystander suppression in 3 unique preclinical models of ibd.1978  ova-specific tregs mediate the reduction in inflammation in the transfer model of colitisto determine the role of antigen experienced tregs in the suppression of colitis by et we transferred cd25cd4 tregs derived either from mice that had been treated with et or left untreated into mice beginning to lose weight following cd45rbhi t cell transfer.

2c.thus skin-derived tregs can effectively suppress the development of colitis.prevention and treatment of colitis and ileitis by etwe applied et to 3 preclinical models to test the potential of et for prevention or treatment of ibd.

c histological scores for colons from mice exposed to ova et or not dss before dss treatment and median histological scoring of colon specimens with ranges in parenthesis from mice exposed to ova et or not dss before dss treatment shown under a representative he sections of colon demonstrating less severe inflammation and ulceration in mice exposed to ova scale bar 14 100 mm.

b histological scores for ileums from sampyitfc mice exposed et or not samp to ova and median histological scoring of ileum specimens with ranges in parenthesis from sampyitfc mice exposed et or not samp to ova shown under a representative he section of ileum demonstrating less severe inflammation and villus blunting in those mice exposed to ova scale bar 14 100 mm.

c inflammatory cytokines ifn-g tnf-a il-17 and il-6 as measured by rt-pcr in mice not exposed samp or exposed to ova et n 14 2 pooled experiments of 5-6 micegroup p  0.05.mice treated with et fig.

c histological score for colons from mice exposed on the skin exposure to ova et or not control and median histological scoring of colon specimens with ranges in parenthesis from mice exposed on the skin exposure to ova et or not control shown under a representative he section of colon demonstrating less severe inflammatory infiltrate in treated mice scale bar 14 100 mm.

direct administra- tion of the regulatory cytokine il-10 to humans was not effective for the treatment of cd.29 other drugs like anti-tnf-a therapies may indirectly increase treg numbers and that this increase may correlate with clinical response.30-33 desreumaux et al showed that administration of in vitro-generated ova-specific tregs to patients with refractory cd was well tolerated and had dose-related  1979figure 6. ova-specific tregs mediate the reduction in inflammation in the transfer model of colitis a weight curves of mice with colitis and given cd25 t cells from immunized and ova et exposed mice mice not exposed to ova sham or mice not given cd25 t cells control.

for example induction of et to one dietary antigen can suppress the development of allergy to new dietary allergens.25 we observed that the induction of et to ova could suppress inflam- mation in 3 distinct preclinical models of ibd whose pathogenesis is unrelated to ova.

importantly we show that et can abrogate intestinal inflammation in murine models of ibd via bystander suppression.materials and methodsmicebalbc c57bl6 and cd45.1 mice were obtained from jackson laboratories bar harbor me.

thus the epi- cutaneous route effectively induces systemic immune tolerance to a model antigen.et is mediated by tgf-b-dependent but il-10 and foxp3 itreg-independent mechanismsto determine the role of tregs and treg-associated molecules in et we used neutralizing anti-il-10 or tgf-b anti- bodies or foxp3-dtr mice fig.

this depletion approach which effectively suppresses oral tolerance24 had no effect on et fig.

similarly neutralization of il-10 had no impact on et fig.

in contrast neutralization of tgf-b completely abrogated the suppressive effect of et on ova-specific ifn-g production fig.

1975this indicates that tgf-b but not il-10 or induced foxp3 tregs is required for et.skin-derived tregs prevent colitiswe next sought to determine if et could suppress colitis.

