mat mean annual temperature degc map mean annual precipitation mm soil c soil total c content of 0-10 cm soil soil n soil total n content of 0-10 cm soil soil p soil total p content of 0-10 cm soil.

to explore which environmental variables explained most of the variation in microbial community composition we included soil depth soil moisture ph soil c content soil n content soil p content mi- crobial biomass c and n as explanatory variables.all statistical analyses were performed with the statistical software r version 3.2.2.  using the package asreml   and the package vegan  with the ado- nis and envfit functions.resultseffects of n fertilization on soil c n and p content and phsoil c n p and ph differed strongly among different soil depths be- tween subtropical and temperate forests and fig.

table entries are f-values with significance levels indicated by asterisks p b 0.05 p b 0.01 p b 0.001. treat n-fertilization treatment factor with three levels stc total c content per gram dry soil mg g-1 stn total n content per gram dry soil mg g-1 stp total p content per gram dry soil mg g-1.note the uppercase letters in the table indicate a soil microbial biomass c mg kg-1 mbc b soil microbial biomass n mg kg-1 mbn c soil microbial biomass c to microbial biomass n ratio mbcmbn d total plfas content nmol g-1 e bacterial plfas content nmol g-1 f gram-positive bacterial plfas content nmol g-1 g gram-negative bacterial plfas content nmol g-1 h fungal plfas content nmol g-1 i actinomycetic plfas content nmol g-1 j arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal plfas content nmol g-1.d.

second each sample was separated into four subsamples to measure soil moisture contents of carbon nitrogen phosphorus and ph microbial biomass and community composition respectively.measurements of soil contents of c n and p and soil moisture and soil ph2.1.

however n fertiliza- tion generally decreased soil ph and  p  0.04 especially at the 0-10 cm soil depth in subtropical forests where the value of soil ph was below 5 a-b for wys 0-10 cm soil p  0.07.table 2 effects of predictors i.e.

on the con- trary microbial biomass and community structure remained relatively stable in the temperate forests where the average soil ph was 5.7. fur- thermore we found that ph together with other soil properties soil n and c content soil moisture etc.

moreover soil arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi content significantly de- creased with increasing n fertilization at 0-10 cm soil depth in the sub- tropical forests  p  0.02.effects of n fertilization on microbial community compositionthe results of redundancy analysis rda showed that overall mi- crobial community structure and specific taxonomic groups of bacteria fungi and actinomycetes in subtropical forests responded significantly to both n50 and n100 fertilization  except d and h all cases with p b 0.05. in the temperate forests microbial community composi- tion was relatively stable across the different n fertilization treatments  for all cases p n 0.05.furthermore by investigating the specific microbial taxonomic groups indicated by plfa makers table s1 we observed a consistent decrease of the relative abundance of fungi with increasing n fertilizertable 3effects of fixed factors on soil microbial biomass and microbial plfas analyzed by linear mixed-effects models.

although many studies have documented effects of n deposition on plant growth  it still re- mains uncertain how n deposition affects soil microbes and soil nutrient cycling .a previous meta-analysis of 82 field studies revealed that n deposi- tion has negative effect on microbial biomass across different biomes .

twelve for each treat- ment and the control.soil samplingat the end of july 2015 4-5 years after the start of the fertilizer ap- plication we took soil samples from 3 depths of the mineral soil layer after moving the surface litter layer in nine plots at each site.

a second subsample of 30 g was air-dried and then used to deter- mine soil nutrient content including soil total c total n total phosphorus p and ph.

science of the total environment 607-608 2017 1367-13751369table 1general information on four forests sites in the neecf project used in the present study.site location altitude mat mapgrowingsoil typedominantsoil c soil n soil p phsincen deposition treetreestand basalmdegc mmseason monthsspeciesmg g-1dbhcmheight maream2 ha-1gh genhe wy wuying gnj guniujiang wys wuyishan.

during chloroform fumigation the time of soil incubation in gaseous chcl3 was extended from 24 h to 48 h in our experiment to fully kill all soil mi- croorganisms.

after chloroform fumigation the soil samples were ex- tracted using the solution of 0.5 moll k2so4 and the soil extracted solution was then analyzed by multi nc 3100 using oven oxidation method analytik jena jena germany.

forest types subtropical or temperate and n treatments ck n50 n100 were used as predictor variables and the factor soil depth was used as strata to restrict per- mutation within the same soil depths according with .

soil c and n content and ph in temperate forests were significantly higher than that in subtropical forests while soil p showed the opposite pattern.

