thus the extent of trp use by bacteria its dietary supply and local turnover by the git can have far-reaching implications in the development and proper functioning of both the enteric nervous system ens and cns.the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradationdecarboxylation of trp to tryptamine transam- ination to indol-3-yl pyruvic acid and hydroxyl- ation to serotonin are minor trp degradation pathways.

trp degradation by ido has emerged as a rate-limiting step for metabolic immune reg- ulation according to two proposed mechanisms first by the generation of trp metabolites with immune activity such as kyn and kyna  second by triggering an amino acid-sensing signal in cells undergoing trp depletion .

however degradation pathways can only use trp in its free form which correspondsto 5 to 10 of total trp .

the mode of trp degradation and concentration of its end products is a function of free trp concentration which is in turn readily influenced by nutritional hormonal and pharmacological cues.

tdo is the main determinant of trp availability to extrahepatic tissues and is induc- ible by trp itself glucocorticoids and estrogens  .

conversely ido can be inhi- bited by elevated levels of trp which results in channeling the flux of trp degradation back to tdo .

because tdo has low affinity for trp it remains active even when trp exceeds the levels required for serotonin and protein synthesis .

3. if trp concentration is low the liver will clear and metab- olize circulating trp to nad for energy demands .

however it is important to remember that the majority of defects of trp metabolism in peripheral organs can also have a strong effect on the cns resulting in complications such as anxiety and depression.irritable bowel syndrome and diseasetwo main diseases of the git are associated with trp metabolism irritable bowel syndrome ibs and irritable bowel disease ibd.

melatonin another trp metabolite has emerged as a treat- ment option of ap by reducing oxidative stress and protecting from inflammation .cancercancer cells have a multifaceted relationship with altered trp metabolism.

at the time of writing several modulators of the kp or analogs of trp metabolites are undergoing clinical trials for cancer treatment .diabetesthe main links between diabetes and trp metab- olism are inflammation and immune suppression.

however since trp conversion to tryptamine is very low a sub- stantial increase in dietary trp is needed to in- crease the biological availability of tryptamine .

how- ever de novo synthesis from trp is not a very efficient way to boost nad levels because it requires very high trp to saturate other branches of the catabolic pathway .

on the other hand activated immune cell ahr sup- presses effector t cells and increases immune tol- erance by targeting dendritic and regulatory b cells .the gastrointestinal tract git has an impor- tant role in trp metabolism.

the lower portion of the git is home to substantial num- bers of microbiota which are affected by trp avail- ability and in turn act on gut mucosal tissues and resident immune population through the produc- tion of indole compounds that bind to ahr .

