in line with this the relative abundance of monooxygenases had a significant inverse correlation with preserved marine organic matter bromine r -0.35 p  0.001 and was thus most abundant during reduced omz strength.anaerobic ammonia oxidizing anammox bacteria that are present in arabian sea sediments under the omz were presumably also affected by historical changes in the omz strength.

these include continental mid-cretaceous black shales harboring marine communities lignite-hosted subseafloor microbiomes that resemble soil communities mediterranean turbidites harboring increased bacterial taxa from soils bacteria in baltic sea sediments that reflect variations in paleo-salinity and correlations between the microbial diversity and past depositional conditions in maar lake sediments.

front microbiol 3 354 2012.breuker a. stadler s.  schippers a. microbial community analysis of deeply buried marine sediments of the new jersey shallow shelf iodp expedition 313. fems microbiol ecol 85 578-592 2013.sokoll s. et al.

thus in agreement with earlier studies   our results show that omz conditions and denitrification mainly occurred during the warm interstadials which led to the deposition of d15n-enriched and toc-rich 0.5 sediments while no or weak omz during cold stadials resulted in thedeposition of bioturbated toc-poor sediments.

with some notable exceptions  the abundance of prokaryotes in marine sediments usually decreases an order of magnitude over the top 10 m. however the multiple toc-rich layers in our core likely bolstered the subsistence of the heterotrophic bacteria and archaea as was previously reported from pleistocene mediterranean sapropelsand organic-rich coastal sediments.

we predict that similar correlations found in other localities will be most pronounced in coastal regions sensitive to climate change such as the black sea and baltic sea.referencescanfield d. sulfate reduction and oxic respiration in marine sediments implications for organic carbon preservation in euxinic environments.

proc natl acad sci usa 114 2940-2945 2017.parkes r. j. cragg b. a.  wellsbury p. recent studies on bacterial populations and processes in subseafloor sediments a review.hydrogeol j 8 11-28 2000.parkes r. j. et al.

deep sea res i 57 384-393 2010.naqvi s. w. a. et al.

in sediments underlying the arabian sea oxygen minimum zone omz we performed the first metagenomic profiling of sedimentary dna at centennial-scale resolution in the context of a multi-proxy paleoclimate reconstruction.

such a depositional setting is found in the arabian sea where continental margin sediments underlie the world's largest oxygen minimum zone omz.

rather they correlate with paleoenvironmental conditions namely past omz intensities which indicates that a portion 5-15 of the bacterial community in our arabian sea sediments have subsisted since burial with weak selection.

the alkenone unsaturation index suggests relatively small variation in sea surface temperature between the short-term climate shifts but reveals a sharp drop in temperature at 29 ka bp corresponding to heinrich 3 h3 stadial which marks the base of the marine oxygen isotope stage ois 2 to marine ois3 boundary.

marine geology 158 1-13 1999.schubert c. j. et al.

marine geology 125 7-19 1995.coolen m. j. et al.

because microbial activity in the arabian sea omz removes 30-50 of the ocean's fixed nitrogen-and also produces a significant amount of the greenhouse gas n2o the rapidly recurring climate-controlled selection of denitrifier communities in the arabian sea reported here have likely impacted past ocean biogeochemistry and potentially served as climatic feedback mechanisms.

