laricio and pinus pinasterof the target species and the characterization of its associated microorganisms needs to be accomplished  including both life stage and host-associated microbiota.in this study we found that the population of gut symbionts of t. pityocampa larvae associated with p. halapensis was different from the symbionts associated with larvae that fed on p. nigra subsp.

in this work we performed a metabarcoding analysis to investigate for the first time the diversity of the gut bacterial community of pine processionary larvae associated with three different host pine species pinus halepensis pinus nigra subsp.

further studies dealing with the genetic diver- sity of pine processionary moths associated with different host plants can be pivotal to disentangle this aspect.this study provides the first information about the micro- bial diversity associated with t. pytiocampa showing that the microbiota of larvae collected on p. halepensis was different from those sampled on p. nigra subsp.

in this work we aimed to characterize the gut bacterial community of pine processionary larvae associ- ated with three different host pine species pinus halepensis miller p. nigra subsp.

specifically 2 otus belonging to methylobacteriaceae 1 otu associated with unidentified pseudomonadaceae and 12 otus associated with the genus delftia were more abundant in larvae collected from p. halepensis whereas 1 otu associated with pseudomonas and 3 otus with acinetobacter were more abundant on larvae collected from both p. pinaster andp.

halepensis clustered separately from those collected on the other pinus species.a deeper analysis of the dataset allowed to identify 41 otus which were differently abundant among insects asso- ciated with the three different plant species p  0.01. these were further filtered taking into account only taxa that repre- sented at least 1 of the microbiota in larvae feeding on dif- ferent host plant allowing to detect 28 otus representing seven taxa with likely a major role in t. pityocampa ability to exploit different host plants table  fig.

interestingly among actinobacteria reads associated with the genus modestobacter were more abundant in t. pityocampa larvae associated with p. halapensis than in larvae collected from the other two pinus species.

we found that the gut microbial community of t. pityocampa larvae collected on p. halapensis was different from that associated with larvae collected from p. nigra andp.

host plant species were selected on the basis of the different susceptibility to the processionary moth  the aleppo pine p. halepensis the maritime pine p. pinaster and the laricio pine p. nigra subsp.

the exploiting of different microbial communities on different di- ets could also contribute to explain the different susceptibility of the pinus species to the attack by t. pityocampa.

27705-711. doibrady cm white ja 2013 cowpea aphid aphis craccivora associated with different host plants has different facultative endo- symbionts ecol entomol 38433-437. doibiere a bennett ae 2013 three-way interactions between plants microbes and insects funct.

1 double principal coordinate analysis dpcoa performed on the whole microbial community associated to larvae of thaumetopoea pityocampa feeding on different host plant species pinus halepensis pinus nigra subsp.

bacteria associated with insects can confer their host partner with traits allowing them to differentially exploit dis- tinct host plant species defining the species host range  .

this plasticity on the other hand can be useful for insects to exploit different food sources providing the basis for the development of host-associated differentia- tion had which is an adaptive ecological radiation that could explain the high species diversity observed in insects -.

our results support the idea that the different host plant differ- ently impact on the diversity of the microbiome associated with larvae of pine processionary moth.

