The authors concluded that vitamin D supplementation as safe and beneficial in autoimmune patients and therefore is advised for them .Moreover the question of what are the proper medical interven-tions for patients with autoimmune diseases extends much further than the issue of vitamin D troubling doctors throughout the field of autoimmunity.

evaluated the existence of anti-HMGCR antibodies in stat- in-exposed patients with suspicion for IMNM and in two control groups healthy subjects and patients with different autoimmune rheu- matic diseases.

In this study IIF was compared to antigen-specific immunoassays for MPO- andPR3-ANCA based on samples of 251 of vasculitis patients and 924 sample of patients suspected of vasculitis in which AAV diagnosis eventually was rejected.

A clin- ical study investigating the characteristics of the gut microbiota in lupus patients compared to healthy controls found that in medication free patients the composition of gut microbiota was similar in the SLE group regardless of clinical manifestations or anti-dsDNA antibodies levels .

Alterations in the human gut and oral mucosa microbiota have been recognized as an important environmental factor in autoimmune diseases and specifi- cally in SLE patients.

To tie up the loose ends it has been reported that higher rates of lym- phomas has been observed among patients with autoimmune dis- eases .Not only lymphoma is highly associated with autoimmune diseases as was beautifully presented by Michael Ehrenfeld who discussed the issue of RA  malignancy and the impact of TNF inhibitors on lympho- mas and skin cancers.

Indeed multiplex proteomic tech- nology is considered to be an optimal solution for the simultaneous de- tection of different autoantibodies allowing the autoantibody profiling of autoimmune patients either for diagnostic or prognostic purposes or even for prevention of autoimmune diseases.

Using the Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay ELISA and Chemiluminescence Immunoassay CIA assays they have found the presence of anti-HMGCR antibodies in samples from statin- exposed patients with suspicion for IMNM Current laboratory techniques used in the autoimmunity field such as High-technology automated analytical systems were the focus of a thorough review given by Alexandrova et al.

Churilov et al analyzed a 15000 cases database and found comorbidity of AIT and juvenile dyspituitarism aka Simpson-Page syndrome obesity with rose striae - 265 vs 15 in general population as well as non- syndromal connective tissue dysplasia of marfanoid phenotype with marfanoid stigmata in 90 of such patients.

The huge numbers of patients involved inDahan et al.

