We identified obesity-associated microbial species and their effects on host amino acid profiles and using a mouse model we uncovered evidence of causal effects of B. thetaiotaomicron on adiposity and circulating amino acid levels.RESULTSObesity-associated genes and taxonomic alterations identified by metagenome-wide association studiesWe performed shotgun sequencing of 257 fecal samples 151 samples from 72 obese individuals and 79 lean controls in the first cohort 49 samples from 23 obese individuals and 26 controls in the second cohort and 63 samples from 23 obese individuals including 6 in the case group subjected to SG Supplementary Fig.

a Classification of fecal microbiota in a test set control n  26 obese n  23 and individuals with obesity before 0M n  23 1 month 1M n  17 and 3 months 3M n  23 after sleevegastrectomy by a random forest classifier previously trained on 151 samples of individuals with obesity and controls.

CIA was performed on MLG abundance profiles and metabolite abundance profiles of control and obese samples to assessthe relationship between MLGs and metabolites that differed in abundance between control and obese individuals.

Comparison between shotgun sequencing data of stool samples from lean controls n  79 and obese individuals n  72. a Rarefaction curves based on gene count in lean controls and obese individuals.

Briefly for a given number of samples we performed a randomized sampling 79 and 72 times in the control samples and obese samples respectively and estimated the total number of genes that could be identified from these samples.

Box plots on the left of each scatter plot denote BMI in the corresponding subjects box plots below each scatter plot denote the abundance of the individual B. thetaiotaomicron MLGs in the corresponding subjects 0M n  23 3M n  23.The abundance of serum amino acids in individuals with obesity before and 3 months after sleeve gastrectomy 0M n  15 3M n  15.

We found that the abundance of genes related to 'LPS biosynthesis' and 'peptidoglycan biosynthesis' was higher in the microbiome of obese individuals than in that of lean controls which may be related to the observed higher serum concentration of LBP TNFa and IL6 in obese individuals Supplementary Table 1.

We further found that the abundance of 14 case-enriched MLGs was decreased at 1M and the abundance of 20 case-enriched MLGs was substantially decreased by 3M whereas the abundance of 8 and 37 control-enriched MLGs was substantially increased at 1M and 3M respectively Supplementary Fig.

Briefly the Kendall tau rank correlation coefficient was used to calculate the rela- tionship between genes according to their abundance and then the Chameleon algorithm was applied to cluster the genes into MLGs.Taxonomic assignment and abundance profiling of the MLGs Supplementary Table 3 were performed according to the taxonomy and the relative abundance of the constituent genes using the method previously described.

Differential abundance of phyla genera species MLGs and KOs were tested by two-tailed Wilcoxon rank-sum test in controls and obese individ- uals and two-tailed Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank test in the case of treat- ment samples.

