the bacterial sequences obtained were deposited in the genbank database under accession numbers kx260635- kx260916.discussionin this study the bacterial microbiota of the common house mosquito cx.

interestingly another invasive mosquito species aedes albopictus asian tiger mosquito showed a reduced bacterial microbiota in recently established popula- tions france compared to autochthonous populations vietnam possibly due to an alteredreduced availability of plant nutrition sources within the new habitats minard et al.

there might be general interspecific variations in associated bacterial diversity of mosquito species based on different eco- logical and biological habits however those cannot be suffi- ciently evaluated due to the currently scarce data situation.conclusionin this study the microbiota of two mosquito species cx.

japonicus showed a diverse bacterial community including some common bacterial genera.

due to the currently scarce data situation ongoing examinations on the very abundant bacterial genera or species are strongly re- quired to determine their relevance for the biology and adaptiveness of mosquitoes including pathogen-host relationship.keywords bacterial diversity .

most of the bacterial genera found in our study have been identified in other mosquito species before.

although a variety of established german mosquito species are also known as potential vectors for disease agents there are currently no studies about the composition and struc- ture of their associated bacterial communities.

this study is the first study to investigate the bacterial microbiota diversity of the common mosquito species cx.

japonicus mosquitoes were used for subsequent bacterial analyses.bacterial diversity in culex pipiens and aedes japonicusafter the cloning reactions not more than 28 colonies per mosquito specimen positive by bluewhite screening cx.

emerg med pract 161-23charan ss pawar kd severson dw patole ms shouche ys 2013 comparative analysis of midgut bacterial communities of aedes aegypti mosquito strains varying in vector competence to dengue virus.

science 326134-136. doikim c-h lampman r muturi ej 2015 bacterial communities and midgut microbiota associated with mosquito population from wastetires in east-central illinois.

parasite vector 6146. doiminard g tran fh van tran van cg goubert c bellet c lambert g kim kl thuy th mavingui p moro cv 2015 french invasive asian tiger mosquito populations harbor reduced bacterial microbi- ota and genetic diversity compared to vietnamese autochthonous relatives.

spektrum akademischer verlag heidelbergngo ct aujoulat f veas f jumas-bilak e manguin s 2015 bacterial diversity associated with wild caught anopheles mosquito from dak nong province vietnam using culture and dna fingerprint.

japonicus asian bush mosquito is an invasive mosquito species originally from japan and korea which can be found in germany since 2008 tanaka et al.

in this study we examined the bacterial diversity of wild- caught adult culex cx.

