The observation that intestinal NOD2 signaling may transcend intestinal barrier to distant sitesindicates that monitoring intestinal bacteria by this pathway may be crucial for systemic microbial surveillance for human health.

First published April 27 2017 doi10.1152ajpgi.00330.2016.MINI-REVIEW Microbiome and Host InteractionsFrom sensing to shaping microbiota insights into the role of NOD2 in intestinal homeostasis and progression of Crohn's diseaseIyshwarya Balasubramanian and Nan GaoDepartment of Biological Sciences Rutgers University Newark New JerseySubmitted 7 September 2016 accepted in final form 20 April 2017Balasubramanian I Gao N. From sensing to shaping microbiota insights into the role of NOD2 in intestinal homeostasis and progression of Crohn's disease.

Defective MDP sensing by NOD2 can ultimately compromise intestinal epithelial barrier and induce abnormal host immune response resulting in exacerbated intestinal injury and CD0193-185717 Copyright c 2017 the American Physiological SocietyG7G8MOLECULAR GENETICS OF NOD2pathogenesis aspects that will be discussed through the course of this review.The intracellular traffic and molecular delivery of MDP have been carefully investigated to understand NOD2-mediated MDP sensing and initiation of downstream NOD2 signaling.

Likewise an in vivo study in MDP perfused rats suggested that MDP transport through intestinal PepT1 induces Nod2-mediated intestinal inflammation 28.

In summary the existence of multiple cellular types as well as internalization pathways appears to be criticalfor commensal bacterial sensing and pathogen surveillance during homeostasis and intestinal inflammation.In addition to providing a direct signal to host cells via NOD2-mediated sensing MDP also influences the antibacte- rial functions of host intestinal cells.

In addition to sensing its specific bacterial components as a cytosolic pattern recognition receptor NOD2 also appears to shape the colonization of intestinal microbiota.

Additional studies have identified the involvement of NOD2 in protection against non-microbiota-related intestinal dam- ages as well as extraintestinal infections.

In healthy individuals the intestinal epithelial cells IECs and the underlying immune cells tolerate commensal microbiota but respond to incursion by pathogenic microorganisms.

This MDP-sensing capability by NOD2 has been suspected to be critical for modulating intestinal epithelia and microbiota in- teraction.

Moreover PGN in the intestinal lumen was shown to be captured by calcium phosphate nanominerals and transported via M cells to antigen-presenting cells in the Peyer's patch in both human and murine tissues 38.

