the overall compositions of the fecalmicrobiota of the lighter and heavier groups were represented as bar plots at the phylum level c and the genus level dcomparison of the kegg pathways of the fecal microbiota of the lighter and heavier pigletswe compared the kegg pathways predicted for the fecal mi- crobiota of the lighter and heavier piglets and found that various kegg pathways were significantly differentially identified in the microbiota of the two groups fig.

a two- sided welch's t test was used to identify significant different metabolic pathways in the microbiota of the two groups with p  0.05 considered significant.resultsdifferences in the alpha diversity of the intestinal microbiota of the lighter and heavier pigletsa total of 337534 mean value  18752 - 11675 16s rrna gene sequence reads were generated with an average of 23067 -13261 reads per piglet in the lighter group and 14437 -8480 reads per piglet in the heavier group.ace chao1 observed otus pd shannon index and simpson index values were used as parameters of the alpha diversity of intestinal microbiota in this study table .

the richness estimators ace chao1 and observed otus were significantly higher for the heavier group than those for the lighter group p  0.05. the diversity indices pd shannon and simpson were also higher for the heavier group than those for the lighter group although the differences were not significant.differences in the microbial taxa representedin the intestinal microbiota of the lighter and heavier pigletsat the 97 similarity level all of the otus observed were classified into 26 phyla and 258 genera fig.

in the microbiota ofthe heavier group microbial degradation pathways for these toxic substances were more activated than they were in that of the lighter group which may have led to the body weight gain of the former group.in this study we compared the fecal microbiota of lighter and heavier piglets and their predicted metagenomes.

the three dominant phyla detected in both groups were firmicutes 48.42 in the lighter group and 53.59 in the heavier group bacteroidetes 39.31 in the lighter group and 34.15 in the heavier group and proteobacteria 5.25 in the lighter group and 4.23 in the heavier group.

therefore the body weight gain of the piglets with a microbiota that had a more activated nlr signaling pathway might be less than that of the piglets in whose microbiota pathway was less activated.we observed that three kegg pathway- bdioxin degradation bxylene degradation and bbenzoate degradation related genes belonging to the bxenobiotics bio- degradation and metabolism pathway were significantly more abundant in the microbiota of the heavier group than those in that of the lighter group consistent with the results of other studies.

the microbiota of the heavier group had a significant- ly higher firmicutes level and fb ratio compared with that of the lighter group whereas a significantly higher bacteroidetes level was observed in the microbiota of the lighter group consistent with the results observed in many previous studies delzenne and cani  hildebrandt et al.

at the phylum level the microbiota of the lighter and heavier groups shared 24 phyla 92.31 with members of acidobacteria and armatimonadetes uniquely identi- fied in that of the lighter group and the heavier group respectively.

b. the firmicutes-to-bacteroidetes ratio fb ratio was sig- nificantly higher in the heavier group than that in the ligh- ter group table .at the genus level the levels of anaerococcus sediminibacterium and butyrivibrio were significantly higher in the intestinal microbiota of the heavier group than those in that of the lighter group fig.

at the phylum level the microbiota of the heavier group had significantly higher levels of firmicutes and a higher firmicutes-to-bacteroidetes ratio than that of the lighter group.

to investigate the relationship we analyzed the microbial communities and in- ferred the functions of the fecal microbiota of lighter and heavier piglets.materials and methodssample preparationnine-week-old weaned lyd piglets raised on a local commercial farm gangneung republic of korea were used in this study and the experimental protocols follow- ed in this study were approved by the institutional animal care and use committee at kangwon national university iacuc no.

three dominant genera prevotella 20.08 lactobacillus 6.36 and bacteroides 4.54 were found in the intestinal microbiota of the lighter group whereas the three dominant genera in the intestinal micro- biota of the heavier group were prevotella 18.86 lactobacillus 7.66 and faecalibacterium 3.01. we then compared the overall composition of the micro- biota of the two groups at the phylum and genus levels using pca.

1 compositions of the fecal microbiota of the lighter and heavier piglets.

bnucleotide-binding oligomerization domain nod-like receptor nlr signaling pathway balanine aspartate and glutamate metabolism and bnovobiocin biosynthesis pathways were predicted atsignificantly higher levels in the microbiota of the lighter group 0.06 1.28 and 0.17 respectively than those in that of the heavier group 0.05 1.26 and 0.16 respectively.

in contrast bdioxin degradation bxylene degradation and bbenzoate degradation pathways that are involved in bxenobiotics bio- degradation and metabolism at the higher kegg pathway hierarchical level were predicted at significantly higher levels in the microbiota of the heavier group 0.06 0.05 and 0.24 respectively than those in that of the lighter group 0.05 0.05 and 0.23 respectively.fig.

