these observations apply equally to the study of other oral diseases.keywords dental caries biofilm next-generation sequencing microbiome genome metabolomeintroductionadvances in dna sequencing and bioinformatics have facili- tated the disclosure of numerous oral microbial taxa and their associations with dental health or caries activity aas et al.

2013. moreover omics studies simon-soro and mira 2015 confirmed the previously proposed concept that both dental caries and periodontal dis- ease are closely related to a dysbiosis of microbial consortia rather than by individual bacterial species marsh 2006. the dysbiosis is driven by environmental changes such as a sugar- frequentacidic-ph environment in caries and a protein-rich neutral-to-weakly alkaline-ph environment in periodontal dis- ease takahashi 2015.omics studies also underpinned a pivotal aspect of the caries process--the presence of bacteria does not necessarily indicate metabolic activity.

2012 and caries gross et al.

2. compelling evidence supports the role of arginine metabolism in caries prevention marquis et al.

for example scardovia wiggsiae was significantly associated with severe early childhood caries tanner et al.

for example lactobacillus species have long been associated with late stages of caries progression becker et al.

2002. in a metagenome analysis of the bacterial communities found at the different stages of caries development lactobacillus species were detected only in deep carious dentin simon-soro et al.

its internal transcribed spacer wga whole-genome association.formation wright 2010. however multi- ple genes may be involved in caries predis- position which complicates the diagnostic value of gene-based studies shaffer et al.

6. currently high- throughput analysis of epidemiological data can be used to better understand the environmental effects on oral diseases and whole- genome association wga studies can be applied to determine genetic predisposition to caries such as abnormalities in enamelsimon-soro and mira 2015.recently the ecobiological heterogeneity of the salivary ecosystem and the relationships between microbiome metabo- lome and host-related salivary parameters were demonstrated based on the analysis of saliva samples zaura et al.

despite the obstacles cited above omics research is expected to encourage the discovery of novel caries biomarkers and the development of next-generation diagnostics and therapies for caries control.

available tools that are aimed to compare independent groupsfigure 6. the perfect storm of dental caries and how the postgenomics era can help to understand caries.

in summary the use of omics approaches can decipher microbial composition and function and relating those to host or environmental features will unravel the interactions between the 3 pillars of caries disease and how to modify them to reduce caries risk in the clinical practice from a holistic approach.in addition to focusing on bacteria e.g.

2016. noticeably the tools needed to interpret and translate the omics data into clinical practice demand expertise from multiple disciplines such as biology dentistry mathematics statistics and bioinformatics.conclusionthe application of omics techniques has provided more depth to existing hypotheses as well as new insights in the eti- ology of dental caries which emphasizes that some long-held caries paradigms should be revised.

despite current problems with study design and data analysis omics research is expected to encourage the discov- ery of novel caries biomarkers and the development of next- generation diagnostics and therapies for caries control.

2008 tanner et al.

