2014 raising the possibility that the gut symbionts of army ants could also influence wolbachia distributions.beyond these three microbes other bacteria showed few distri- butional patterns figure 1. for example deep sampling from two army ant species suggested differing abundance of actinomycetales and weissella species across colonies from the same locales how- ever sibling workers from the same colonies showed variability inthe relative abundance of these taxa figure 2. it is unlikely that these two bacteria have engaged in long-term or highly specialized associations with army ants.

2011. army ants are keystone species in many of the world's tropical for- ests boswell britton  franks 1998 kaspari  o'donnell 2003 living in large colonies with one queen and anywhere from tens of thousands to millions of workers kronauer 2009. unlike fungus growers and herbivorous ants such as cephalotes and tetraponeranew army ant colonies are always founded by colony fission where swarms made up by a single mated queen and tens to hundreds of thousands of accompanying workers depart from the maternal col- ony cronin molet doums monnin  peeters 2013 kronauer 2009 peeters  ito 2001. these differences in modes of colony founding across known hosts of specialized symbionts raise ques- tions about the diversity of microbial communities but also how such diversity is partitioned among vs. within colonies.the goal of this study was to characterize the composition and structure of bacterial communities of the new world dorylinae in a comprehensive multilevel fashion across individuals colonies spe- cies as well as geography.

what functional role do army ant gut microbes playdue to their stability over long evolutionary time and presence across multiple species our data raise the possibility for an impor- tant functional role for the most abundant gut microbes of army ants.

2011 most army ant associates grouped into a single lineage which in our analysis was made up exclusively of bacteria from army ants.

as larger amounts of sequence data for symbionts infecting a broader range of hosts become available for phylogenetic comparisons our understanding of the evolutionary history of this group is likely to improve.in contrast to these specialized bacteria wolbachia--the most widely distributed endosymbiont of insects zug  hammerstein 2012 and the third most abundant microbe in our data set--was prevalent in two distantly related and geographically disparate army ant genera aenictus and neivamyrmex yet strikingly absent from other army ants in our study.

molecular ecology 23 1251-1267.kaspari m.  o'donnell s. 2003. high rates of army ant raids in the neotropics and implications for ant colony and community structure.

to achieve this we used multiplex illu- mina sequencing of 16s rrna amplicons for a total of 195 individual workers from 102 new world army ant colonies representing 28 species from the five described genera.

the collected ants were identi- fied to the genus or species level based on morphology and colony characteristics and then preserved in ethanol or acetone and stored at -20degc until further processing.we also investigated microbial communities of specimens from15 old world army ant colonies used by funaro et al.

using these protocols we obtained unambiguous 16s rrna gene sequences from 19 ant dna samples including old world army ants and the two ponerinae species previously identified to host unclassi- fied firmicutes tables s2-s3.

spe- cial emphasis was placed on the two most broadly sampled ant species eciton burchellii and labidus praedator for which numerous sequences were generated per colony and site tables s1 s3.phylogenetic relationships of army ant-associated entomoplas- matales had been inferred previously using the slowly evolving 16s rrna gene funaro et al.

these findings suggest that army ant species differ in the numbers of bacterial cells they contain although follow- up experiments using more accurate quantitative methods are required to confirm this observation.we removed from the analysis the eight libraries where the majority of reads represented genotypes and otus abundant in neg- ative controls and focused on the remaining 202 libraries fig.

army ant workers harbour low-diversity symbiont communitiesin-depth sequencing of 16s rrna gene revealed that bacterial com- munities of the new world dorylinae are dominated by a small number of species of specialized gut bacteria.

arrows indicate all specimens from a single colony of e. burchellii colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.comamong army ant species and perhaps beyond.

2011. however more recent efforts have detected closely related microbes in two ponerinae species kautz rubin  moreau 2013a and the ncbi database contains multiple sequences from other hosts that are at least 94 identical within the v4 region of 16s rrna gene to the army ant symbionts.

furthermore for each of the comprehensively sampled army ant species except e. hamatum we identified several distinct host-specific symbiont clades suggesting long-term coexistence of multiple divergent symbiont lineages extending back for numerous generations within a single matriline.among our most curious findings was the discovery that distinct unclassified firmicutes strains colonize different workers and that the majority of workers host only a single strain of this bacterium.

