This review points out the need for future prospective studies and randomized controlled trials to better address these questions.BackgroundMethicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus S. aureus MSSA bacteremia remains a major cause of community- or hospital-acquired bloodstream infections with approximately 200000 cases occurring annually in Europe 1 and high in-hospital mortality 25-35 2- 4.

Characteristics and results of studies comparing efficacy of cefazolin versus anti-staphylococcal penicillins in the treatment of MSSA bacteremia.Table 3 continued.p0.05 aOR adjusted odds ratio CFZCefazolin HR Hazard Ratio MSSA Methicillin-Susceptible Staphylococcus aureus N'number of included patients in the propensity score matched analysesP Deep-seated infections Endocarditis Bone or joint infection Device related infection Deep-seated abcess PneumoniaSSSource control Catheter removal device explantation surgical management of abcessTable 4.

Characteristics and results of studies assessing safety of cefazolin versus anti-staphylococcal penicillins use in the treatment of MSSA bacteremia.p0.05AE adverse event ASPs anti-staphylococcal penicillins ATB Antibiotics CFZ Cefazolin MSSA methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus NA not available.ReferencesKern WV.

The fact that it may lead to potential therapeutic failures is still debated with conflicting results in animal studies and six human studies that found no impact of the inoculum effect.

Six of these studies found no difference in treatment failure andor mortality between cefazolin and ASPs groups with half of the studies reporting that cefazolin was associated with non-significant lower mortality 32-34.

which is the largest one with 1163 patients in the cefazolin group and 2004 patients in the ASPs group found that cefazolin was significantly associated with lower mortality aHR 0.8 0.7-0.9.Details on patients and infections characteristics antibiotics dosing and duration outcomes of interest and methods to control bias in the seven studies are displayed in Table 1.All of these studies have several limitations.

Fourth while ASP dosing was the same across the studies cefazolin dosing ranged from 3gday to 6gday making comparison difficult between studies.

As for all observational studies selection biases affect these safety studies.

Despite concerns about the possible negative ecological impact of cefazolin no studies have evidenced changes in gut microbiota after its use but the designs of the available studies are all too old to be able to correctly assess this issue.

Studies of MSSA infective endocarditis have shownthat the in vitro inoculum effect may have consequences 18-20 whereas other studies suggest that the slow inactivation of cefazolin by staphylococcal b-lactamase is of little importance because diffusion into the area of infection occurs rapidly enough to yield effective antibacterial concentrations 21.In conclusion the hydrolysis of cefazolin by S. aureus type A -lactamases in high-inoculum deep infections has been proven in vitro.

