finally all these findings need to be related to the effects of serotonin on other aspects of gut function like contractility and sensation.the gut possesses a variety of regulatory mechanisms that coordinate the diverse actions of 5-ht to maintain homeostasis of fluid transport and contractility and this paper adds the gut microbiota to that armamentarium.

first scfa have a biphasic effect on tph the rate limiting enzyme of 5-ht production by inhibit- ing it at high concentrations and thereby reducing 5-ht pro- duction second as shown in this study scfa probably de- crease 5-ht3b receptor expression thereby reducing the ca- pacity for 5-ht to stimulate cl- secretion.

while there were no differences in baseline transepithelial resistance isc or camp-stimulated secretion the gf mice had a significantly greater secretory response to serotonin than their hm counterparts suggesting that the presence of gut microbiota specifically tempers the secretory response to 5-ht.

thus while gut microbiota promote 5-ht production through their metabolic products scfa the potential for deleterious actions is cur- tailed by two means.

as it is already well estab- lished that disruption of 5-ht homeostasis underlies diarrheal and inflammatory bowel diseases extending the observationsg15of this paper to how microbiome dysbiosis alters 5-ht function can lead to the development of innovative biotherapeutics to treat intestinal disorders.disclosuresno conflicts of interest financial or otherwise are declared by the authors.author contributionse.b.c.

with a view to gain an insight into the human microbiota the authors compared serotonin-sensitive ion secretion in age-matched swiss webster germ free gf mice with those colonized with human gut microbiota hm.

in an earlier study these authors 4 also demonstrated the influence of diet on gut transit time in gf and hm mice but its effects on serotonin-mediated isc are un- known.

human-derived gut microbiota modulates colonic secretion in mice by regulating 5-ht3 receptor expression via acetate production.

complex interactions among diet gastrointestinal transit and gut microbiota in humanized mice.

second in colonoids derived from gf mice acetate at a single concen- tration but not butyrate decreased the levels of 5-ht3b mrna hinting that the signal may be via short chain fatty acids in particular acetate.as with many good studies the findings raise more ques- tions what is the diversity and composition of the protective commensals while treating all mice with samples from one human allows for a well-controlled study it begs the question of what effects 3-diversity will have on the response what is the trigger is the microbiome profile altered in disease states and does it use the same or different triggers there is some hint to the trigger in nondiseased states in that the short chain fatty acid acetate attenuates the 5-ht3 mrna levels in gf-derived colonoids.

regardless the gastrointestinal tract is the major site of serotonin 5-hydroxytryptamine 5-ht production 95 and its crucial role as a paracrine mediator and neurotransmitter in regulating gastrointestinal function has been well established 2. its functions range from modulating visceral sensation neuronal protection and regeneration to stimulating secretion motility and proinflammatory responses.

furthermore serotonin's interplay with the gut microbiome and its role as a key intermediary in the gut-brain axis are gaining prominence.

these multiplex roles have led serotonin to earn the moniker the sword and shield of the gut where dr. gershon ascribes the sword function to mucosal serotonin and the shield function to neu- ronal serotonin 3.in this issue of the americal journal of physiology-gastro- intestinal liver physiology the work of bhattarai and col- leagues 1 adds a twist to this suggesting that the sword function could be manipulated by the microbiome.

the prevalent 5-ht receptors in the intestine are 5-ht3 the cys loop family ligand-gated ion channel and 5-ht4 a g protein-coupled receptor.

finally in diseased states consideration has to be given to other members of the 5-ht signaling cascade.

