we recently demonstrated that murine dendritic cells previously exposed to quercetin suppress inflammatory pathways induced by lps administration -.nutrients 2017 9 706 doidendritic cells dcs are the most powerful antigen presenting cells and are able to capture antigens migrate to the draining lymph node and present them to initiate the adaptive immune response .

dcs polarization in the intestine represents a paradigm for the induction of tolerogenic dcs--a dynamic imprinting mediated by the host secreted factors  the microbiome  and nutritionally-derived factors .in the small intestine dcs can sample luminal antigen by projecting periscopes through the epithelial monolayer into the intestinal lumen -.

flow cytometer acquisition was performed using navios beckman coulter brea ca usa.t cells intracellular staining t cells from spleen mln and lp from 8-week-old mice fed with standard or quercetin-enriched food were cultured with a 500x cell stimulation cocktail ebiosceince san diego ca usa for 12 h washed with dpbs 1x  0.5 bsa and stained with cd4 apc-vio 700 miltenyi biotec bergisch gladbach germany.

a representative image demonstrating captured lamina propria cells from the tip red or the base green of intestinal villi b lamina propria cells from standard black bars and quercetin white bars diet were laser-captured and slpi expression measured by qpcr.

2005 11 254-255.  rescigno m. lopatin u. chieppa m. interactions among dendritic cells macrophages and epithelial cells in the gut implications for immune tolerance.

nespoli a. viale g. allavena p. rescigno m. intestinal immune homeostasis is regulated by the crosstalk between epithelial cells and dendritic cells.

39-080-4994628 m.c.received 21 april 2017 accepted 4 july 2017 published 6 july 2017abstract dendritic cells' dcs ability to present antigens and initiate the adaptive immune response confers them a pivotal role in immunological defense against hostile infection and at the same time immunological tolerance towards harmless components of the microbiota.

furthermore slpi expressing cells are more frequent at the tip compared to the base of the intestinal villi suggesting that quercetin exposure could be more efficient for dcs projecting periscopes in the intestinal lumen.

the anti-inflammatory effects of quercetin were absent or reduced in the absence of slpi for all cytokines considered with the exception of il-1b suggesting a different regulatory machinery involved in the secretion of this crucial inflammatory cytokine.figure 1. quercetin reduces inflammatory cytokines secretion in wild-type wt dendritic cells dcs.

slpi-ko cells released higher amounts of ccl-2 ccl-3 and ccl-4 following 24 h lps stimulation compared to dcs from wt mice.

this work suggests that antigen presenting cells dcs residing at the tip of the intestinal villi project dendrites into a quercetin-rich intestinal lumen and subsequently upregulate slpi expression.

however quercetin administration failed to reduce inflammatory cytokine secretion in slpi-ko dcs figure  which was in contrast to previously observed effects on wt dcs .

bars represent mean concentration of interleukin-6 il-6 tumor necrosis factor alpha tnfa interleukin-10 il-10 interleukin-12 il-12 interleukin-1 alpha il-1a and interleukin-1 beta il-1b - sem n  4.  p  0.001  p  0.01.slpi-ko dcs fail to secrete cxcl-1 independently from quercetin exposurethe chemokine secretion profile was differentially modulated in wt and slpi-ko dcs.

slpi dcs are able to suppress the inflammatory cascade even in the presence of lps while slpi-ko dcs fail to respond to quercetin and release high amounts of inflammatory cytokines.

articlesecretory leukoprotease inhibitor slpi expression is required for educating murine dendritic cells inflammatory response followingquercetin exposurestefania de santis 12 vanessa galleggiante 1 letizia scandiffio 1 marina liso 1eduardo sommella 3 anastasia sobolewski 4 vito spilotro 1 aldo pinto 3 pietro campiglia 35 grazia serino 1 angelo santino 2 maria notarnicola 1 and marcello chieppa 13national institute of gastroenterology s. de bellis institute of research via turi 2770013 castellana grotte italy s.d.s.

