according to the who the number of people with t2d has increased from 108 million in 1980 to 422 million in 2014 resulting in an increase in the global prevalence of diabetes among adults 18 y of age from 4.7 in 1980 to 8.5 in 2014 1. these numbers are projec- ted to increase to 642 million by 2040 2. alarmingly t2d prevalence has been increasing more rapidly in middle- and low- income countries than in developed countries 1. untreated diabetes results in reduced quality of life due to its comorbidities including blindness kidney failure heart attacks stroke lower limb amputation and premature death 1. almost half of all deaths attributable to high blood glucose occur before the age of 70 y 1. it is projected that diabetes will be the seventh leading cause of death by 2030 3. thus there is a pressing need to identify effective prevention strategies to reduce the global burden of t2d.the hallmark diabetes control and complications trial 4 showed that diabetes can be treated and its consequencespublished in a supplement to the journal of nutrition.

wolever concluded that exchanging yogurt for other protein- and carbohydrate-containing foods could be an effective way to reduce the gi and gl of the diet.the next presenter li wen discussed the available evidence linking the gut microbiota and diabetes and the potential for yogurt consumption to mediate diabetes risk by modulating the gut microbiota 18. over the past decade next-generation sequencing has provided insight into the complexity of the gut microbiota and has elucidated factors that shape its composition and metabolic function including genetics mode of birth infant feeding patterns antibiotic usage sanitary living conditions and long-term dietary habits which contribute to shaping the composition of the gut microbiome 19. dysbioses have been associated with obesity metabolic dysfunction and diabetes 20 21 potentially through increasing gut permeability 22 and inflammation 23 which are associated with obesity and associated disorders including t2d 20 21. yogurt delivers a large number of live active cultures to the gastrointestinal tract.

yogurt and type 2 diabetestranslating evidence into practiceintroduction to the fourth global summit on the health effects of yogurtsharon m donovan1 and jordi salas-salvado' 231food science and human nutrition university of illinois urbana il 2human nutrition unit university hospital of sant joan de reus department of biochemistry and biotechnology faculty of medicine and health sciences pere virgili health research institute universitat rovira i virgili reus spain and 3biomedical research center in physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn instituto de salut carlos iii madrid spainthe global statistics on the prevalence of type 2 diabetes t2d are dire and diabetes has emerged as one of the largest health challenges of the 21st century.

global report on diabetes internet cited 2016 jul 5. available from international diabetes federation.

the effect of intensive treatment of diabetes on the development and progression of long-term complications in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

diabetes care 201538159-65.yamaguchi y adachi k sugiyama t shimozato a ebi m ogasawara n funaki y goto c sasaki m kasugai k. association of intestinal microbiota with metabolic markers and dietary habits in pa- tients with type 2 diabetes.

in the past several years 5 meta-analyses of observational studies have shown inverse associations between the frequency of dairy consumption and t2d incidence 5-10. therefore the goal of the fourth global summit on the health effects of yogurt held at the 2016 experimental biology meeting was to review the scientific evidence linking yogurt consumption and symptoms of t2d with the goal of translating science into practice.in the first presentation 11 jordi salas-salvado' reviewed the epidemiologic evidence associating dairy consumption and diabetes.

these studies showed that the consumption of yogurt and other fermented dairy products was positively associated with improved variables of glucose metabolism and inversely associated with the risk of diabetes.

yogurt intake was associ- ated with a reduced risk of diabetes development independently of its fat or sugar content suggesting that other mechanisms may be involved potentially the nutrient or microbial composition of yogurt.

in addition to providing microbes yogurt is a nutrient-dense food and contributes to the intake of protein calcium and potassium 24 25. yogurt consumers have greater intakes of key nutrients of concern and their overall dietary intake more closely aligns with dietary guidelines 25 27. in addition yogurt consumers exhibit healthier nonnutritional behaviors such as reduced smoking and greater participation in physical activity than do nonconsumers 28. together the nutritional and nonnutritional behaviors characterized by yogurt consumers may also explain in part their reduced likelihood for overweight and metabolic diseases 24 25 27. these strong epidemiologic associations further support the need for randomized controlled blinded intervention trials to provide the strongest evidence for the use of yogurt in the prevention of t2d.although much has yet to be learned about the relations between yogurt its components and health outcomes the presentations of the fourth global summit on the health effects of yogurt show that we are advancing our understanding of the efficacy of yogurt and other dairy products in diabetes preven- tion.

randomized controlled interventions are needed to unequiv- ocally show that yogurt and its components can prevent the onset of diabetes and the underlying mechanisms of action.acknowledgmentsthe authors' responsibilities were as follows--smd pre- pared the initial draft of the manuscript which was edited by densie webb and js-s and smd read and approved the final manuscript.referenceswho.

idf diabetes atlas.

brussels belgium international diabetes federation 2013.mathers cd loncar d. projections of global mortality and burden of disease from 2002 to 2030. plos med 20063e442.diabetes control and complications trial research group.

consumption of dairy foods and diabetes incidence a dose- response meta-analysis of observational studies.

the consumption of milk and dairy foods and the incidence of vascular disease and diabetes an overview of the evidence.

