The establishment of these sulphate-reducing species which correlated with the deple- tion of sulphate Pearson's r  -0.96 p  0.04 is convincing of the potential for subglacially sourced microbes to reduce sulphate within delta sediments consistent with previous studies from subglacial environments   although the incubation bottle effect cannot be excluded.The relative abundance of methane cycling organisms se- quenced was low 0.10 - 0.17 Online Resource 2 contrary to previous studies of subglacial discharge samples  .

The greatest dissimilarities were found between the day 0 communities and the other communities R  0.82 while days 60 147 and 371 communities were found to be moderately similar to each other R  0.44 how- ever due to a low number of samples the results of these analyses were not statistically significant.

Within CO2H2-amended incubations sulphate depletion and a shift in the microbial community to a 52 predominance of Desulfosporosinus meridiei by day 371 provides evidence for sulphate reduction.

Later a reduction in methane was observed to be paired with the depletion of sulphate and we hypothesise that sulphate reduction out competed hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis.

We calculate that between days 147 and 252 methane oxidation occurred at rates of 4.22 pmol g-1 d-1 and sulphate reduction oc- curred at rates 1000-fold greater at 3.54 nmol g-1 d-1 as- suming that sulphate was not depleted before day 252.

This article is published with open access at Springerlink.comAbstract The Watson River drains a portion of the SW Greenland ice sheet transporting microbial communities from subglacial environments to a delta at the head of Sondre Stromfjord.

Under the assump- tion that cells are deposited alongside glacial sediments in the river delta at the fjord head which likely amass at rates of 9- 16 mm yr-1  and assuming that once buried under subsequent depositions the environment becomes waterlogged and anoxic this study sought to consider the potential activity of transported subglacial communities especially methanogens whose poten- tial activity and greenhouse gas production has been reported previously -.

Due to the reduction in cell abundance and diversity and their ANOSIM-calculated uniqueness we focus on the CO2H2-amended communities herein.CO2H2-amended communities sampled at different time points were found to be dissimilar GlobalR  0.71 p  0.01.

Methanogen-related amplicons that were closely related to Methanomicrobiales two OTU and Methanosarcinales five OTU including three OTU that were most closely related to anaerobic methanotrophic archaea ANME organisms known also to be involved in sulphate-driven anaerobic oxidation of methane AOM  were identified in the day 0 and day 60 communities which were consistent with previous studies of subglacial environments     Online Resource 2.

2 Estimated absolute abundance of cells associated with OTU 19 that contributed towards 1 of the dissimilarities found between CO2 H2-amended communities within a T1 day 0 b T2 day 60 c T3 day 147 and d T5 day 371 sampled CO2H2-amended communities.

