s1.the kinetics of luminal clearance of l. monocytogenes were similar in wt and rag1-- mice indicating that b and t lymphocytes of the adaptive immune system do not contribute to pathogen elimination between days 1 and 6 d. some rag1-- mice continued to excrete l. monocytogenes intheir feces 10 d after inoculation possibly as a result of de- fective cd8t cell-mediated clearance of systemic infection a single dose of streptomycin which markedly enhances murine susceptibility to salmonella infection or a cocktail of four antibiotics metronidazole neomycin vancomycin and clindamycin mnvc also re- sulted in robust expansion of l. monocytogenes e and increased morbidity g. at day 3 after infection edema inflammatory cell infiltration and epithelial cell shed- ding were detected in the intestinal tissue of infected anti- biotic-treated but not pbs-treated mice f. weight loss the combined pathology score and mortality were consistently increased in antibiotic-treated mice g. treatment of mice with streptomycin in- duced the highest level of susceptibility potentially becausel.

p  0.05  p  0.005  p  0.001  p  0.0001.less permissive to the growth of the pathogen in c57bl6 mice at least at relatively low doses of infection upon virtual clearance mice were treated with streptomycin which resulted in a marked bloom of l. mono-cytogenes e.administration of streptomycin at differ- ent times after infection demonstrated that a high proportion of mice harbor l. monocytogenes 11 d 80 16 d 40and 21 d 20 after infection f longer than pre-figure 2. small l. monocytogenes oral inocula spread systemically in antibiotic-treated mice.

monocytogenes infection although nks have also been shown to reduce resistance during early phases of listeria infection after intravenous inoculation of wt mice  to determine the role of the microbiota in immunocompro- mised highly susceptible hosts we treated raggc mice with pbs or antibiotics streptomycin mnvc and infected them orally with a sublethal l. monocytogenes inoculum strikingly all antibiotic-treated raggc mice succumbed to infection whereas all pbs-treated raggc mice survived f.this indicates that the intestinal microbiota in immunocompromised hosts provides nonredundant first line defense against l. monocytogenes infection.anticancer chemotherapy and antibiotics synergize in predisposing the host to listeriosiscancer patients have the highest incidence of severel.

in vivo challenge studies demonstrated that mice reconstituted with 4-clost had markedly lower levels of luminal l. monocytogenes as compared with abx-fmt mice f. fur- thermore whereas dissemination of l. monocytogenes to mlns spleen and liver was not detected or moderate in 4-clost mice we detected high-level dissemination in fmt-abx mice f.thus by reducing l. monocy- togenes burden in the intestinal lumen the 4-clost con- sortium prevented systemic spread of the pathogen.figure 6. correlation of intestinal com- mensal bacteria with protection from l. monocytogenes infection.

p  0.05  p  0.005  p  0.001  p  0.0001.viously appreciated thus despite neg- ative fecal cultures residual l. monocytogenes bacteria can undergo expansion when microbiota-mediated colonization resistance is impaired by antibiotic administration.the gut microbiota provides nonredundant protection against l. monocytogenes in immunocompromised hoststo investigate the contribution of the microbiota to resis- tance against oral l. monocytogenes infection in immuno- compromised hosts we infected rag2--il2rg-- raggc mice which lack t and b cells as well as nk cells and innatelymphoid cells ilcs and are known the be highly suscep- tible to oral l. monocytogenes infection we confirmed that raggc mice orally inoculated withmonocytogenes doses that are sublethal for wt mice rap- idly lose weight and succumb to infection and not depicted.

interestingly although it was originally proposed that lack of t cells accounted for marked susceptibility we only detected increased susceptibility to oral l. monocyto- genes infection in rag1--ifng-- double ko mice but not rag1-- or rag1--il17-- mice suggesting that type 1 ilcs or nk cells rather than t cells protect against l. monocyto-figure 3. antibiotic treatment predisposes hosts with congenic immunodeficiency to lethal listeriosis.rag2--il2rg-- raggc and wt mice were cohousedfor 3 wk and infected orally with 108 l. monocytogenes lm cfus.

c cell numbers for circulating leukocytes identified as in b from mice shown in a n  14 lines represent means.d survival of pbs- vs. chemo-treated mice infected 1 d after second treatment d8 with 106 l. monocytogenes cfus n  5. e lm burden in the colonic content of mice treated and infected as in d with 108 lm cfus 1 d after infection.

in the 70s reported that gf mice in contrast to spf mice were highly susceptible to l. monocytogenes infection and theircolon would become rapidly colonized by l. monocytogenes after low intra-gastric inocula.the authors hypothesized that the rich microbiota carried by spf mice might account for their resistance to infection but were unable to prevent in- testinal growth of l. monocytogenes by gavage of selectedbacterial species even though this treatment reduced pene- tration of l. monocytogenes into intestinal tissue as assessed by microscopy similarly observed that gf rats in contrast to conventional rats were highly permissive for l. monocyto- genes expansion in the intestine and proved that intestinal clearance of l. monocytogenes could be achieved in these animals by transplantation of a microbiota.

rag1--ifng-- and rag1--il17-- mice were derived on a c57bl6 backgroundinitially generated by breeding rag1-- mice with ifng-- or il17a-- mice respectively and then bred in house.

we detected high bacterial loads in spleen and liver of antibiotic-treated mice unpublished data in- dicating that antibiotic-mediated compromise of the micro- biota predisposes to severe disseminated l. monocytogenes infection by enabling pathogen expansion in the intestinal lumen and increasing penetration into the intestinal tissue and the systemic circulation.small inocula or gut-resident l. monocytogenes can promote infection upon dysbiosisinoculation of mice with as few as 102 cfus 10-7  ld50 after streptomycin treatment resulted in high-density coloni-zation of the intestinal lumen with weight loss signs of dis- tress and diarrhea and fecal shedding persisting for over 10 d and not depicted.

despite the low inoculum size l. monocytogenes penetrated the epithelium infiltrated mesenteric lymph nodes and spread to spleen and liver in antibiotic-treated but not pbs-treated mice c.these results indicate that microbiota-mediated colonization resis- tance against l. monocytogenes is a major contributor to the high level of murine resistance to oral infection.roughly 0.5-5 of the human population transiently and asymptomatically carries low levels l. monocytogenes in the gastrointestinal tract to determine whether antibi- otic-mediated microbiota depletion in mice with low-levell.

d mice infected with 108 lm particles were euthanized 1 d after negative fecal cultures for lm and whole organsintestinal contents were homogenized and plated for lm detection n  6 shown are only mice for which colonies where detected.

f percentages of mice bearing lm at the depicted time points after infection as assessed using the approach described in e except that in this experiment mice were maintained in wire floor cages to prevent coprophagy n  10 per group from three different experiments.

intestinal content from mice that had been previously treated with antibiotics lost the capacity to elimi- nate l. monocytogenes enabling survival small intestine or expansion large intestine of the pathogen c. expo- sure to oxygen synergized with the effect of antibiotic treat- ment decreasing the capacity of commensals to antagonize l. monocytogenes c.this corroborated our hypothesis that the enhanced infection and delayed l. monocytogenes clearance in antibiotic-treated mice depended on direct ef- fects on microbiota composition rather than on indirect con- sequences on the immune system.to investigate the inhibitory mechanisms operating in the aforementioned assays contents from small or large in- testine were co-cultured with l. monocytogenes for 24 h a time sufficient to allow inhibitory mechanisms to take place and the resulting culture supernatants were sterile filtered 24 h-sup.

c same experimental setup as in a except that intestinal content was collected from pbs streptomycin or mnvc-treated mice 1 d after termination of treatment n  3 mice per time point one representative of two experiments shown circles represent in- dividual values lines represent medians.

