we also investigate intra-individual microbial changes across both body regions and predict that if factors influencing buccal and gut microbiomes are consistent there will be a significant correlation between buccal and gut microbial changes within individuals.materials and methodsstudy site and sample collectionin brief 14 north american red squirrels females n  8 males n  6 non-breeding were trapped using tomahawk live trapstomahawk live trap co. wi usa in a mixed-wood forest lo- cated in algonquin provincial park ontario canada.

finally intra-individual changes in abundance and di- versity in the buccal and gut microbiomes were evaluated to investigate whether changes in the buccal microbiome could be directly related to changes in the gut microbiome within individ- ual hosts.

boxes and intervals represent the mean and 95 confidence limits respectively.p  0.28. indicator species analysis revealed multiple specific otus that were significantly associated with each capture in- cluding alicyclobacillus in the first capture coprococcus in the sec- ond and coriobacteriaceae in the third see table s1 supporting information.temporal variation in gut microbiomethe gut microbiome consisted of 2229 otus and 3714 125 mean 88 431.55 min 48 413 max 177 124 sequences.

b but not sexes p  0.98. indicator species analysis revealed that several otus were specifically associated with each capture including ruminococcus in the first lactobacil- lus in the second and coprococcus in the third table s1 support- ing information.intra-individual temporal variationintra-individual change in buccal abundance across captures was not correlated with change in gut abundance in the first and second captures regression r2  0.01 f1 12  1.97 p  0.30 first and third captures regression r2  0.18 f1 12  3.914 p  0.07 or second and third captures regression r2  0.08 f1 12  2.214 p  0.16. these relationships were also not significant when in- vestigating differences in a-diversity across captures 1-2 r2 -0.08 f1 12  0.0001 p  0.99 1-3 r2  0.04 f1 12  1.57 p  0.232-3 r2  0.04 f1 12  0.04 p  0.84.discussionwe sampled the buccal and gut microbiomes of north ameri- can red squirrels to investigate the impact of temporal varia- tion on the characterization of multiple microbiomes in a wild mammal.

our findings however also suggest that the gut microbiome of this population has the potential for relatively short 2-4 weeks temporal variation which ultimately may in- fluence downstream analysis when characterizing a typical mi- crobiome.our final goal of this study was to determine whether factors driving temporal variation in the buccal and gut microbiomes were synchronous e.g.

slight dietary changes throughout the summer months could also be influencing this variation and future research should focus on increasing our knowledge of these interactions within both the buccal and gut microbiomes over short and long time periods.overall the buccal microbiomes in this population of red squirrels displayed temporal stability over short and medium capture periods while the gut microbiome showed temporal variation across medium and long-term capture periods.

tel 705 675-1151 x 4496 e-mail one sentence summary the buccal and gut microbial communities or microbiomes of north american red squirrels were sampled to investigate the impact of temporal variation on the characterization of microbiomes in a wild mammal.editor julian marchesiabstractmicrobial communities are increasingly being recognized as important to host health in wild mammals but how these communities are characterized can have important consequences on the results of these studies.

using illumina miseq sequencing of the v3-v4 16s rrna gene regions we characterized the buccal and gut microbiomes of wild north american red squirrels tamiasciurus hudsonicus to measure changes in these two microbiomes over short 2 weeks medium 2-4 weeks and long 1 month term sampling periods.

while we observed short and medium temporal stability in the buccal microbiome the gut microbiome varied between medium and long-term sampling periods.

there was no evidence of intra-individual correlations between buccal and gut microbiome change suggesting that temporal stability is dependent on the body region and factors affecting microbial stability may be specific to body sites.

compositions of buccal and gut microbiomes have been linked to host health such as the correlation between decreased oral microbiome diversity in humans and pediatric inflammatory bowel disease docktor et al.

7shifts in the gut microbiome and subsequent negative host health effects in endangered primates amato et al.

for example wild wood mice apodemus sylvati- cus and wild black howler monkeys alouatta pigra show tem- poral changes of gut bacterial taxa that are linked with changes in host diet amato et al.

sex as with differences in the gut microbiome of siberian ham- sters phodopus sungorus sylvia et al.

social networking as established by the correlation between gut microbiome vari- ation and rates of interaction in wild savannah baboons papio cynocephalus tung et al.

