The funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.Competing interests The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.microbiome which is perfectly adapted to survive and thrive in an environment with low nutrient availability.IntroductionMicroorganisms inhabit a diverse number of extreme environments such as hot springs gla- cial lakes and subterranean systems -.

The most abundant human associated genera as previously described by The Human Microbiome Project Consortium were used for this analysis and include Lactobacillus Propionibacterium Streptococcus Bacteroides Corynebacterium Staphylococcus Moraxella Haemophilus Prevotella and Veillonella.later in detail.

2017 The influence of human exploration on the microbial community structure and ammonia oxidizing potential of the Su Bentu limestone cave in Sardinia Italy.

The lower level is occasionally flooded by a rising groundwa- ter level but with only scarce input of organic remains leaves and charcoal fragments.On the quiet cave pools there are visible calcite rafts whereas walls are locally coated with manganese deposits.

The microbial community of this system is predomi- nately composed of the phyla Proteobacteria Actinobacteria Acidobacteria Nitrospirae and Firmicutes.

The results of this study highlight that human impact is confined to locations that are utilized as campsites and that exploration leaves little microbial trails.

The cave comprises over 15 km explored passages and most of the cave is not subjected to flooding creating a typical oligotrophic environment.

This plant community is constituted by sclerophyll species over a very thin soil and by mountain garigue on bare rock pavement The climate is semi-arid with an annual mean temperature and precipitation of 13C and 1.100 mm respectively.

The Su Bentu underground network is hosted within Jurassic and Cretaceous limestones along a large reverse faults system that delineates to the west and an east-facing monocline slope consti- tuted by the flank of the Tertiary syncline of Lanaitto Valley .

The karst conduits expand almost horizontally over an area of about 6 km2 and more than 200 meters underneath the surface.

