we first curated large-scale microbe- disease association data a symptoms-based human disease datadm th14 pdd jm th14 kbijj bij ifbij0jd2thand microbe data then we applied disease and microbe data to random walk with restart on the heterogeneous network rwrhmd ijj i0otherwiseto infer the potential disease-microbe relationships.

so e di jth 14 1 represents the change of microbe i will cause disease j happen e di jth 14 0 represents that no literature proved disease j associated with microbe i. we constructed the heterogeneous net- work by connecting the disease network and microbe networkthe element of mm microbe network at i-th row and j-th col- umn is pdmjjmith the probability of the random walker transition from mi to mj.

in the disease network each node is one kind of disease and the link between two diseases means that the symptoms-based similarity between the two diseases is not zero .

because 39 diseases include some symp- toms and removed the similar symptoms of the diseases we finally found out 28 diseases and constructed disease network based on symptoms  the disease similarity matrix contains 127 interac- tions.

not only can the microorganisms be biomarkers for disease diagnosis prognosis but also they can explain disease mechanisms .

prioritizing disease-causing microbes based on random walking on the heterogeneous networkxianjun shen  yao chen xingpeng jiang xiaohua hu tingting he jincai yangschool of computer central china normal university wuhan 430079 chinaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 27 march 2017received in revised form 22 may 2017 accepted 13 june 2017available online 16 june 2017keywords disease network microbe network random walkheterogeneous networka b s t r a c t as we all know the microbiota show remarkable variability within individuals.

at the same time those microorganisms living in the human body play a very important role in our health and disease so the identification of the relationships between microbes and diseases will contribute to better understanding of microbes interactions mechanism of functions.

first of all we connected the disease network and microbe network based on the known disease-microbe relationships information to construct a heterogeneous network then we extended the random walk to the heterogeneous network and used leave-one-out cross-validation and roc curve to evaluate the method.

in conclusion the algorithm could be effective to disclose some potential associations between diseases and microbes that cannot be found by microbe network or disease network only.

we confirmed that the discovery of the new associations will be a good clinical solution for disease mechanism understanding diagnosis and therapy.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionmetagenomics and 16s pyrosequencing have enabled the study of ecosystem structure and dynamics to great depth and accuracy.

for example the over- growth of competitive pathogenic species can disrupt the relation- ships among the normal intestinal microbiota which will finally lead to disease.

improve random walk and apply this method to ppi protein-protein interaction network for disease genes prediction.

bt is the transpose of b. let k be the probability of the random walker jumping from microbe network to disease network or vice versa.

here the tran- sition matrix of the heterogeneous network is as shown in the fol- lowing formulam mm mmd1mdm mdhere mm and md are microbe network and disease network transi- tion matrix respectively.

mmd is a probability transition matrix from microbe network to disease network accordingly mdm is the transpose of mmd.the transition probability from mi to dj can be described as followsmicrobe relationship.

