nodes with highest closeness centrality in our network are physically nearest nodes to all nodes.supplemental figure e1n68 table 1expression array data from pbmc16s rrna sequencing data from balclinical demographics from comet-ipfsupplemental figure e2supplemental figure e3absupplemental figure e4canonical pathways of magenta moduleintegrin signaling signaling by rho family gtpases axonal guidance signaling granulocyte adhesion and diapedesiscoagulation systemactin cytoskeleton signaling extrinsic prothrombin activation pathwayrelaxin signaling sertoli cell-sertoli cell junction signaling agranulocyte adhesion and diapedesispaxillin signaling clathrin-mediated endocytosis signaling epithelial adherens junction signaling1.61.651.71.75-logfdrsupplemental figure e5cellulomonadaceaetropheryma ppseudomonadaceaepseudomonas pseudomonadaceaepseudomonas alcaligenaceaebordetella bacteroidalesprevotellaceaeprevotella clostridiales incertae sedis xiparvimonas bacteroidalesprevotellaceaeprevotella bacillalesstaphylococcaceaestaphylococcussupplemental figure e6supplemental figure e7il-10 signaling toll-like receptor signalingrole of hyperchemokinemia in the pathogenesis of influenza communication between innate and adaptive immune cellsppar signaling graft-versus-host disease signalinghepatic cholestasis role of cytokines in mediating communication between immune cells regulation of cytokine production in intestinal epithel.

we demonstrate that 1 reduced expression of pfs-associated canonical pathways in pbmcs was associated with a worse outcome table 2 2 down- regulation of immune response relevant pathways is associated with changes in the abundance of specific microbial otus figures 1 and 2 3 abundance of particular otus correlates with several tlrs expression supplemental figure e5 4 lung fibroblast cpg-odn responsiveness to tlr9 activation is positively correlated withexpression of host immune response relevant signaling pathways figure 3 5 increased expression of these same immune response relevant pathway genes is negatively correlated with the abundance of otu1341 prevotella and otu1348 staphylococcus figure 3 and 6 alterations in the microbial community structure associate with changes in circulating leukocyte phenotypes figure 4. these data suggest that prr and immune response relevant signaling pathways play a central role in pfs-associated host-microbial interactions and may provide a target for therapeutic intervention.our pfs-transcriptomic survival analysis identified 11 significant canonical pathways including major prr signaling pathways and four other inflammatory response pathways table 2. tlr- rig1- and nod-like receptor signaling are integral to the innate immune response which constitutes the first line of defense against invading microbial pathogens.

clin vaccine immunol 2009 16 1804-1809.table 1. baseline characteristics of subsets of comet-ipf patientsa subset of comet-ipf patients n68 with expression array data from pbmc 16s rrna sequencing data from bal and clinical demographics.a subset of comet-ipf patients n27 with cpg-odn mediated tlr9 response data from fibroblast and expression array data from pbmc.cpicomposite physiological index dlco diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide fvcforced vital capacity fev1forced expiratory volume in 1 secondtable 2. progression free survival pfs-associated host canonical pathwayscanonical pathways except kegg chemokine signaling pathway can be found in the interaction network illustrated in figure 2. p-value0.05 p-value0.01figure legendfigure 1. interaction network between progression free survival pfs-associated canonical pathways and microbial diversity indices and operational taxonomy units otus.

fresh medium was added to the fibroblasts every 2-3 days and the cells were passaged when they were 70-90 confluent.data analyses and integrationplease see the online data supplement for additional details.pfs-associated host canonical signaling pathwaysmicroarray gene expression data from host pbmcs was transformed into a data matrix of pathways-samples using the rbioconductor package gsva as described in theonline data supplement.

fresh medium was added to the fibroblasts every 2-3 days and the cells were passaged when they were 70-90 confluent.data analyses integration and statisticspfs-associated host canonical signaling pathwaysnormalized microarray gene expression data from pbmcs of comet-ipf cohort n68 was transformed from a gene by sample matrix to a pathway by sample matrix using rbioconductor package gsva 11. gene set variation analysis gsva is a non-parametric unsupervised method for estimating variation of gene set enrichment through the samples of a expression data set.

there are studies that have linked the microbiome to lung tissue gene expression 53 and between the pbmc expression and lung tissue expression 54 but none between the pbmc expression and microbiome directly.

am j physiol lung cell mol physiol 2012 303 l1046-1056.han mk zhou y murray s tayob n noth i lama vn moore bb white es flaherty kr huffnagle gb martinez fj investigators c. lung microbiome and disease progression in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis an analysis of the comet study.

am j physiol lung cell mol physiol 2016 311 l590-601.herazo-maya jd noth i duncan sr kim s ma sf tseng gc feingold e juan-guardela bm richards tj lussier y huang y vij r lindell ko xue j gibson kf shapiro sd garcia jg kaminski n. peripheral blood mononuclear cell gene expression profiles predict poor outcome in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

cells by il-17afil-6 signaling il-17a signaling in gastric cells glucocorticoid receptor signalingtnfr2 signaling aryl hydrocarbon receptor signalingrole of osteoblasts osteoclasts and chondrocytes in rheumatoid arthritis altered t cell and b cell signaling in rheumatoid arthritis role of pkr in interferon induction and antiviral responseacute phase response signalingnf-kb signaling inos signalingcholecystokiningastrin-mediated signalingdendritic cell maturation0123-logfdrsupplemental figure e8absupplemental table e1.

three nodes displayed high closeness-centrality including nf-kb signaling role of osteoblasts and chondrocytes in rheumatoid arthritis and acute phase response signaling supplemental figure e8b.inflammatory leukocyte phenotypes associate with microbial measures associations between paired lung microbial data and blood leukocyte phenotypes were assessed in a subset of patients with these data n32 supplemental figure e1.

genes involved in the alpha defensin pathway critical to host defense also predict disease severity 22. importantly sustained tlr9 activation in lung myofibroblasts can characterize rapidly progressive ipf 15. altogether these data suggest a role for modulation of immune mechanisms in ipf disease activity.while the lung has been historically considered sterile modern culture-independent techniques show diverse populations of bacteria in the lung 23 24. microaspiration along with microbial migration elimination and relative growth rates determine the composition of the lung microbiome 25 26. changes in host microanatomy cell biology and innate defenses can alter the dynamics of bacterial turnover leading to colonization by well-recognized bacterial pathogens.

therefore any comparison to these studies and our current analysis should be taken with caution.our findings also suggest the lung fibroblast response to cpg-odn-mediated tlr9 signaling may be dependent upon the lung microbial community andor may also reflect the status of immune signaling within the patient as a whole.

7. the primary outcome combined endpoint for comet-ipf was progression free survival pfs as determined by time until any of the following death acute exacerbation lung transplant or relative change in fvc liters of 10 or dlco of 15 2.this study reports microbiome and peripheral blood mononuclear cell pmbc gene expression data on all subjects with supporting data on fibroblastcpg oligonucleotide dna cpg-ond responsiveness and circulating leukocyte phenotypes in subset cohorts .pbmc sample collection rna isolation microarray hybridization and data processingedta blood samples were collected from ipf patients enrolled in comet cohort at study entry.

j biol chem 2012 287 3301-3312.noth i anstrom kj calvert sb de andrade j flaherty kr glazer c kaner rj olman ma idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis clinical research n. a placebo-controlled randomized trial of warfarin in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

conversely otu1348 staphylococcus significantly correlated with decreasedexpression of all 464 significant genes identified with overrepresentation in igf-1 and vegf signaling pathways both of which have been implicated in pulmonary fibrosis 51 and are involved in tissue repair 52.to our knowledge our study is the first to link blood gene expression with lung microbiome.

