this suggested that while il-17a is dominant among the two cytokines in recruiting neutrophils both contribute to control the outgrowth of inflam- mation-causing bacteria.experiments aimed at identifying the il-17-producing cell population in the conjunctiva revealed that il-17 was produced by thy1 cells b. consistently gd t cells accounted for more than 50 of the il-17-producing cells in the steady state with lower amounts being produced by ab t cells and with a modest contribution by tcr-negative cells consistent with the recently described group 3 innate lymphoid cells ilc3 b. neutralization of il-17 by a subconjunctival injection of anti-il-17 antibodies was followed after only 48 hr by a significant reduction in neutrophils in the injected eye compared to the contralateral eye that received an injection of pbs c. these data suggested that il-17 is continually produced by gd t cell locally and that this production was required to maintain neutrophil presence in the conjunctiva during steady state.an ocular surface bacterium elicits production of il-17 by conjunctival gd t cellsin the course of these studies we noted that wild-type wt c57bl6 mice bred in our facility consistently had a significantly higher neutrophil presence in the conjunctiva during steady-state conditions compared to mice from major commercial vendors a. this correlated with significantly more il-17 cells in the conjunctiva of our mice b. as shown in  most of the il-17-producing cells in the conjunctiva in steady state were gd t cells of these about half were vg4 subset by positive staining with the anti-vg4 antibody uc3-10a6 c .

although c. mast can stimulate ab t cells   we noted that vg4 gd t cells also expressed gfp suggesting that gd t cells can also respond to c. mast and that the responding population is the vg4 subset h. il-17 production by the vg4 population was dependent on presence of the dendritic cells and no il-17 was induced by stimulation of gd t cells alone data not shown.

however all offspring of an inoculated dam had detect- able c. mast at the ocular surface when tested 8 weeks after birth confirming vertical transmission of c. mast to the ocular mucosa within the colony c and 5d.jax mice ocularly colonized with c. mast displayed no ocular surface pathology and acquired an enhanced immune response within the ocular tissue which included increases in expression of multiple immune-related genes e expansion of vg4 il-17-producing gd t cells f and 5g and enhanced neutrophil recruitment h. in addition il-17-producing gd t cells were expanded within the eye-draining cervical lymph nodes and displayed an activated phenotype i. in contrast there was little change in the il-17 production and acti- vation phenotype of gd t cells in peripheral lymphoid compart- ments supporting the local nature of the gd t cell response to ocular c. mast colonization figure s5.the ability to stably colonize the ocular surface and induce a local immune signature was not a general property possessed by all bacteria and may not apply to other corynebacterium spp.

as an ocular commensal conferring a beneficial rather than a disease phenotype c. mast satisfied all four of koch's postulates for a causative agent namely 1 c. mast was present in mice displaying a distinct immune signature in the conjunctiva but was absent in mice without this immune phenotype 2 c. mast could be isolated from ocular tissue of mice displaying the phenotype and grown in pure culture 3 inoculation of c. mast into mice free of c. mast colonization conferred the protective immune phenotype and 4 c. mast could be re-isolated from the inoculated hosts which display the protective immune phenotype.our data also uncovered a nonredundant function of gd t cells particularly the vg4 subset in il-17 production in response toc.

swabs were also taken from co-housed mice or 8-week-old mice born from ocular inoculated dams.e-i 3 weeks after the final inoculation mice were sacrificed and the conjunctiva was assessed for e immunology-related gene expression f t cells g il- 17a cells after 4 hr pma and ionomycin stimulation and h neutrophil numbers.bars represent the mean fold change in gene expression - sem over uninoculated mice 5 mice from 2 independent experiments as determined by the nanostring mouse immunology panel.representative flow plots displaying the frequency of vg4 gd t cells of thy1 cells in the conjunctiva - sem 6 mice from 2 independent experiments.g and h bars represent the mean g frequency of il-17 cells or h number of neutrophils - sem in the conjunctiva after inoculation with c. mast n r 6 from at least 2 experiments.i cervical lymph nodes were harvested and either assessed by flow cytometry for il-17a production after 4 hr pma and ionomycin stimulation or for the expression of t cell activation markers cd44 and cd62l.

these develop after birth and contain all the necessary cells for the generation of immune responses including antigen-presenting cells apcs of myeloid origin b cells and t cells up to 50 of which are gd t cells  .

the bacteria could also be detected by corynebacterium-specific fluorescence in situ hybridization fish  in nih mice but not in vendor mice e. to assess whether the c. mast we identified was stimulatory to immune cells we co-incubated c. mast lysate with fluorescence activated cell sorting facs-isolated cd11bcd11c dendritic cells and thy1 cells from ocular tis- sue of c57bl6 mice from our colony.

c. mast lysate induced il-17 production from gd t cells in a dose-dependent manner which was not the case when the gd t cells were incubated with staphylococcus aureus lysate f and 2g.we asked whether the interaction of c. mast with gd t cells leading to il-17 production was purely innate or involved an interaction with the gd tcr.

three populations of t cells ab t cells vg4 gd t cells and vg4- gd t cells were iso- lated by facs from the cervical lymph nodes of nr4a1gfp re- porter mice bred in our colony.

after the final passage the yeast cells were harvested va centrifugation at 1400 rpm for 7 min washed twice with pbs counted using a hemocytometer and adjusted to 5 3 105 cfu5 ml for infection.method detailsgd t cell depletionvg4 gd t cells in clone uc3-10a6 and total gd t cells in figures s6  7 uc7-13d5 were depleted using antibodies from bio x cell.

data are from triplicate wells in an individual experiment.1 3 104 facs-isolated gd t cells from the cervical ln and 1 3 105 macs-isolated splenic cd11c cells were incubated with 3 mg of c. mast lysate and eitherail-1r or acd1d for 72 hr.

mast colonization of the ocular surface protects from pathogenic fungal and bacterial infectionas association of c. mast with the ocular surface of jax mice appeared to induce an immune signature and expansion of gd t cells in previously c. mast-negative jax mice we asked whether this gain of func-tion would translate to enhanced host resistance to infection with pathogenic organisms.

of the non-vg4 il-17 producers less than 5 were gd t cells while the remaining were ab t cells and ilcs.

in parallel a higher percentage of gd t cells in the cervical lymph nodes of mice from our facility demonstrated an activatedadefjfigure 2. microbial stimulation of conjunctival t cells results in production of il-17a from gd t cellsa-c single-cell suspensions from the conjunctiva of mice from nih jackson laboratories ''jax'' taconic biosciences ''tac'' or charles river ''cr'' were either assessed for a neutrophil numbers by flow cytometry or b and c il-17a production after a 4 hr stimulation with pma and ionomycin in the presence of brefeldin a for 4 hr.c.

symbols represent individual mice and bars represent the mean frequency of il-17a cells or cd44hicd62llo cells - sem.statistical significance was determined by student's t test g and h or anova i. see also figure s5.abfigure 6. c. mastitidis but not other bacteria persists at the ocular surface and induces immunitymice from jax laboratories were given pbs or were inoculated with 1 3 108 cfu of the noted bacteria once every 3 days totaling three inoculations.a-c after 3 weeks mice were sacrificed and the conjunctiva was assessed for a live bacteria cfub neutrophils and c il-17a-producing cells.d cervical lymph nodes were harvested and either assessed by flow cytometry for the expression of t cell activation markers cd44 and cd62l.

