accordingly the improved intestinal morphology indicated an enhancement of intestinal barrier and absorption capacity of broilers fed with k. marxianus which might result in better feed efficiency.the mucus layer is the first line of defense encountered by intestinal bacteria.

increased tjs protein expression could result in an enhancement of intestinal barrier function  which subsequently reduce the diffusion of macromolecules such as bacterial toxin and pathogens from intestinal lumen into blood circu- lation thereby promoting the intestinal and systemic health of host.

research articleeffects of kluyveromyces marxianus supplementation on immune responses intestinal structure and microbiota in broiler chickensweiwei wang1 zhui li1 zengpeng lv1 beibei zhang1 hong lv2 yuming guo11 state key laboratory of animal nutrition college of animal science and technology china agricultural university beijing p. r. china 2 shanghai engineering research center of industrial microorganisms college of life sciences fudan university shanghai p. r. china abstractopen accesscitation wang w li z lv z zhang b lv h guo y 2017 effects of kluyveromyces marxianus supplementation on immune responses intestinal structure and microbiota in broiler chickens.

it was suggested that the improvement of growth performance immune function and intestinal health in chickens could be linked with the modification of intestinal microbial structure -.

nevertheless it is unknown whether dietary k. marxianus supplementation can improve intestinal microbial structure in animals which might subsequently benefit the immune function and intestinal structure of host.

as an interface between the host and the environment intestinal villi per- form special functions to maintain intestinal absorption and integrity .

this might contribute to the improvement of intestinal morphological structure because of the less bacterial stimulation and could be beneficial for intestinal immunity since mucin also helps to localize siga to the gut epithelium .

therefore the enhanced intestinal absorption as characterized by the improved intestinal morphology coupled with the elevated sglt-1 expression could also be related to the improved feed efficiency of broilers after k. marxianus addition.gut microbiota contribute to maintenance of the normal physiological function of intes- tine providing a series of beneficial effects on their hosts such as nutrient digestion immune function and protection from invasive pathogens -.

thus it could be assumed that there was a connection between the reduced harmful germs in gut and the improved intestinal health of birds after k. marxianus addition at high dose.conclusionsdietary k. marxianus supplementation was beneficial for feed efficiency host immunity and intestinal structure of broiler chickens.

supplemental k. marxianus especially at high dose 2.5 gkg improved intestinal microbial structure which may contribute to the improved feed efficiency and intestinal struc- ture of broiler chickens.supporting informations1 fig.

intestinal cell tight junctions limit inva- sion of candida albicans through active penetration and endocytosis in the early stages of the interaction of the fungus with the intestinal barrier.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data areto investigate the effects of kluyveromyces marxianus on immune responses intestinal structure and microbiota in broilers 840 1-d-old broiler chicks were randomly divided into seven groups eight replicates and were fed basal diets without or with 0.25 0.50 1.0 1.5 2.0 and 2.5 gkg of k. marxianus 2.0x1010 cfug.

in summary k. marxianus supplementation ben- efits feed efficiency and immune function as well as intestinal structure in broilers which might be attributed to the improved ileal microbial structure.

supplemental k. marxianus at high dose 2.5 gkg was more effective for feed efficiency and intestinal health of broilers while the innate immunity was optimized at a medium dose 1.0 gkg.within the paper and its supporting information files.funding this work was financially supported by shanghai engineering research center ofindustrial microorganisms college of life sciences fudan university shanghai china and china agricultural research system program cars-42.

the authors received no specific funding for this work.introductionyeast probiotic mainly the saccharomyces cerevisiae had been widely used in animal produc- tion as it was indicated to improve growth performance immune responses and intestinal health in animals -.

