than where the mechanism is of translocation of gut bacteria pgct 6 bifidobacteria dominant was only found in control infants detected in nearly half of all control infants 43 but whether this is a cause of gut health or a marker of gut health is unknown.

diagnostic blood culture identified two cases of staphylococcus aureus two cases of staphylococcus epidermidis one case of enterococcus faecalis one case of streptococcus agalactiae and one case of escherichia coli additional file table s1.the abundant bacterial genus in the gut microbiome preceding diagnosis corresponds to the genera of the causative agent in losthe gut microbiome of infants with los were highly in- dividual and dynamic through time.

the pathogen iden- tified by blood culture was one of the most abundant otus in the gut microbiota at diagnosis with the corre- sponding genus from the gut microbiome the most abundant in four cases and second most abundant otu in two cases fig.

for infant 173 who was diagnosed with s. agalactiae the organism was de- tected 2 days before diagnosis and within 6 days of anti- biotic treatment flucloxacillin and gentamicin it was no longer detected.preterm gut community types dominant in bifidobacterium are protective for losto further explore the complexity in the developing pre- term microbiome we employed pam clustering analysis to ascertain preterm gut community types pgcts as previously described .

staphylo- coccus bacteroides escherichia klebsiella enterococcus and pseudomonas all showed weak correlations with the detected metabolites.discussionwe explored gut microbiome and metabolome factors that are altered in the development of los in preterm infants and show that the dominant taxa in the gut microbiome are usually isolated in diagnostic blood cul- ture.

finally combining omic datasets to explore correlations between the microbiome and metab- olome showed bifidobacterium was positively correlated with metabolites significantly increased in control infants.the gut microbiome has been previously implicated in the pathogenesis of los -with whole genome shot- gun sequencing revealing the exact strain in diagnostic blood culture can be detected in stool our data concurs showing the species cultured from blood was typically abundant from birth and corresponds to the most or second most abundant otu in the gut at diag- nosis.

although the largest existing probiotic trial of 1315 pre- term infants found no significant improvement to nec or los rates using bifidobacterium breve 0 only specific species of bifidobacterium in the preterm gut are able to utilise human milk oligosaccharides hmos these species appear to have key roles in establishing the pioneering spe- cies of the gut 1. while b. breve produce fucosidases and sialidases only bifidobacterium longum subspecies infantis are able to digest all hmo structures 2. the differences between timing dose and most importantly the bifidobacterium speciesstrains used are likely to ac- count for the inconsistent health benefits between bifido- bacterium probiotic studies.

in accordance with published data we find the causative agent in los is usually abundant in the gut microbiome suggesting translocation though the gut epithelium.

microbiome 2017 575doi 10.1186s40168-017-0295-1longitudinal development of the gut microbiome and metabolome in preterm neonates with late onset sepsis and healthy controlschristopher j. stewart1 nicholas d. embleton2 emma c. l. marrs3 daniel p. smith1 tatiana fofanova1andrew nelson4 tom skeath2 john d. perry3 joseph f. petrosino1 janet e. berrington2 and stephen p. cummings5backgroundlate onset sepsis los defined as sepsis after 72 h of life remains a serious and common complication of prematurity with rates of 20-40 for infants 32 weeks gestation re- ported in some studies.

los in preterm infants impacts negatively on survival with mortality rates of up to 10and on developmental outcomes mechanisms of los pathogenesis are poorly understood but bacterial colonisa- tion and low gestational age are key risk factors bacterial profiling studies have shown that los infants have an al- tered microbiome and lower bacterial diversity - and the bacterial strain isolated in diagnostic blood culture is fre- quently present in the gut .

central to los pathogenesis are bacterial-host interactions modulating gut and systemic immune responses tight junction integrity and host meta- correspondence 1alkek center for metagenomics and microbiome research department of molecular virology and microbiology baylor college of medicine houstontexas 77030 usafull list of author information is available at the end of the articlebolic function the most common organisms causing los in preterm infants include coagulase-negative staphylo- coccus escherichia klebsiella and enterococcus c the authors.

stool metabolite profiles are also significantly associated with age  and serum metabolite profiles between pre- term and term neonates also differ .we aimed to explore relationships between gut micro- biome and metabolome to determine key insights into los development impact and recovery.

this is the first study to employ uplc-ms untargeted metabolomics of stool to determine host and bacterial functioning within the gut of infants diagnosed with los.resultsinfant and sample informationwe recruited a large cohort of preterm infants sampling stool daily where possible n  300 infants3000 sam- ples and capturing key health-related outcomes using precise definitions   .

using strict classification for los positive blood culture with a 5 days antibiotics and only including infants with robust temporal sampling before and after disease diagnosis we present comprehen- sive longitudinal gut microbiome data on 613 stool sam- ples from los infants n  7 and well-matched non- diseased no nec or los controls n  28. a subset of 63 stool samples from los infants n  4 and matched controls n  10 also underwent uplc-ms.infant demographics are shown in table and further detail provided in additional file table s1.

counting the number of unique pgcts over the first 25 days of life showed control infants had an average of 3 unique pgcts compared to an aver- age of 2 unique pgcts in prelos samples p  0.011.untargeted metabolomic profiling indicates distinct functional profiles between infants with los and controls given the finding that the dominant genus in the micro- biome is associated with the causative agent in los we further investigated the potential functional differencesin the gut between infants diagnosed with los and matched controls.

