geology iceland drilling project will probe how islands formits target is surtsey an island created 50 years ago bya series of volcanic eruptions.by alexandra witze eologists and biologists are about to pierce one of the world's youngest islands tiny surtsey which was formedby a series of volcanic eruptions off iceland's southwestern coast between 1963 and 1967. next month a team plans to drill two holes into surtsey's heart to explore how warm volcanic rock cold seawater and subterranean microbes interact1.it will be the most fine-grained look ever at the guts of a newly born oceanic island.

that's in stark contrast to many volcanic islands such as one that appeared near tonga in 2014 but has already eroded by 40 ref.

surtsey is our best bet at getting a detailed picture of this type of volcanic activity -- howocean islands start to form says magnus gudmundsson a volcanologist at the univer- sity of iceland in reykjavik.

the results could help to explain how hydrothermal minerals strengthened the island's rock enabling it to withstand the pounding of the north atlantic ocean.

the second hole will go in at an angle to explore the hot water percolating through a network of cracks in the volcanic craters that make up surtsey.

this is one of the most pristine environments on earth says marie jackson a geologist at the university of utah in salt lake city and principal investi- gator for the us1.4-million project which is partly funded by the international continental scientific drilling program.on 28 july iceland's coast guard plans to begin moving 60 tonnes of drilling equipment and other supplies to surtsey by helicopter.

that will allow us to reconstruct the way subsurface layers are connected -- what we call the structure of the volcano says jocelyn mcphie a geologist at the university of tasmania in hobart australia.the drilling should reveal the earliest stages of the surtsey eruption before it broke the surface of the ocean in november 1963. in the mix of seawater and heat hydrothermal minerals formed in the volcanic rock -- mak- ing it less porous and buttressing it against erosion.

the drill core should reveal how these minerals were created over time jackson says and scientists might be able to take hints from this process to build stronger concrete for structures such as nuclear-waste containers.with such strength surtsey's core is likely to remain an island for thousands of years says gudmundsson.

3. because the vast majority of these islands disappear we most likely substantially underestimate the number and volume of eruptions occurring at or just below sea level in the ocean and hence the associated volcanic risk says nico fournier a volcanologist with the gns science research institute in taupo new zealand.whatever comes out of the surtsey drilling it should dramatically expand the snapshot gleaned from the 1979 project says james moore an emeritus geologist with the us geo- logical survey in menlo park california who was a leader of the earlier effort.

eos org10.10292017eo076589 2017. biotechnology us agencies tackle gene drivesnational-securitycommunitystudiesrisksof method to quicklyspread dnamodifications.by ewen callawayhe jasons a group of elite scientists that advises the us government on national security has weighed in onissues ranging from cybersecurity to renew- ing country's nuclear arsenal.

