the compatibility between serum bg and serum cytokines in the early phase of sepsis18h post-clp and the discordance of these parameters in the late phase of sepsis 96h post- clp implies the different influence of serum bg in the different phase of sepsis.

organ injury as demonstrated by serum creatinine scr for kidney injury c alanine transaminase alt for liver injury d serum cytokines tnf-a il-6 and il-10 e-g fecal candida burdens h and serum 1 3-b-d-glucan bg i was analyzed.n  6-7group  p  0.05 vs. nss p  0.05respectively .

this implied the enhanced serum bg after an oral bg administration.moreover scr but not serum bg alt and cytokines in clp with heat killed-candida was higher than clp-control .

it is interesting to note that both serum bg and serum cytokine levels were lower in the survivors at 96h post-clp in comparison with 18h-post clp.

moreover fluconazole reduced fecal fungal burdens serum bg and attenuated sepsis severity in clp with live-candida administration but not clp-alone.this supports the potential importance of intestinal fungi as a source of serum bg in bacterial sepsis.another factor that could be responsible for the more severe sepsis after an oral fungi administration is the alteration in gut microbiota.

it is also interesting to note that the impact of intestinal candida on bacterial sepsis severity was also more predominant than the effect from fecal-microbiome alteration in the 5 days candida colonization model a model with the influence of mixed-oral antibiotics .because serum bg in normal mice is usually absent or very low  30 pgml it is interest- ing to note that serum bg elevation is demonstrated after clp without candida administra- tion .

in the late phase of sepsis serum bg reduced in survivor mice at 96h post-clp but not reach the level of the sham control in contrast to serum cytokines that already normalized at 96h post- clp.

in compar- ison with clp-control serum bg was higher in clp with heat-killed candida administration at 6h but not at 18h after clp .

additionally clp with heat-killed candida induced higher serum bg than clp alone.

in parallel fluconazole in clp-live-candida attenuated fecal candida serum bg mortality rate and scr but not alt and serum cytokines  .

however while the serum cytokines were normalized serum bg level was still higher than sham control .oral administration of either live- or heat-killed-candida albicans before cecal ligation and puncture increased several intestinal anaerobic bacteria but not aerobic bacteriabecause gram negative bacteria are well-known causative agents of severe bacterial sepsis it is possible that oral candida administration might enhance gram negative bacteria in gut.accordingly we characterized the fecal gut bacterial microbiota  to evaluate the effect of blood bacterial count a peritoneal bacterial count b and bacterial count from internal organs c are shown.

our data also supported the potential usefulness of serum bg for determining propensity to or severity of sepsis.translationally an evaluation of fungal abundance in patient stool and the evaluation of serum bg might be useful in the characterization of sepsis severity.

because serum bg correlated with intestinal fungal- abundance in sepsis the present data associated with impaired gut-permeability barrier  and correlated with bacterial sepsis severity  we propose the detection of serum bg but not fecal fungi as an additional biomarker for sepsis severity.

despite the absence of candidemia serum 13-b-d-glucan bg was higher in clp with candida-administration than clp- controls normal saline administration at 6h andor 18h post-clp.

on the other hand serum bg was higher in clp-live-candida with flu- conazole compare to clp with live- or heat-killed candida .

