much less is known regarding direct interaction of s. epidermidis and osteoclasts although it is expected that induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines will enhance bone destruction in similar ways.given the multitude of different effects of s. aureus on osteoblast and osteoclast function it is likely that s. epidermidis can also negatively affect the capacity of osteoblasts to produce bone matrix andor enhance osteoclast formation and function although much further work is necessary to clarify if this is indeed the case.lastly the interaction of s. epidermidis with bone cells could provide a location where bacteria can persist and prolong odris.

2015. however this immune evasion mechanism may be of more importance for s. aureus rather than s. epidermidis per se since the capacity of s. epidermidis for invading osteoblasts in vitro does not appear to differ between commensal strains and clinical isolates of s. epidermidis obtained from infected orthopedic devices valour et al.

furthermore the differences between s. aureus and s. epidermidis are quite significant and so further work focused on s. epidermidis is required to provide a proper understanding of adaptive immune responses to s. epidermidis bone infection.summary and outlooks.

aureus1.5 x 107 s.epidermidis1.5 x 104 s.aureusbacteria injected 0.05 ml through a ptfe catheter into tibia medullary canal catheter left on placeto test 68 ga-dota-siglec-9 petct imaging in s. aureus and s. epidermidis infection68 ga-dota-siglec-9 petctwas able to detect tissue inflammation but not able to distinguish s.aureus from s.epidermidis infectionsno fracture 5 sodium morrhuate added before inoculation in s. epidermidis group but not in s. aureus or control groupahtinen et al.

2016. overall despite differences due to different s. epidermidis strains and its effect in different tissues it can be hypothesized that lower induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines together with high il-10 production can contribute to the sub-acute nature of s. epidermidis infections.multiple chemokines are also released upon s. epidermidis infection.

the application and integration of this data for s. epidermidis commensalism will provide a much better understanding of the roles of s. epidermidis in health and also in certain skin diseases such as atopic dermatitis or psoriasis.upon a transition to a pathogenic interaction with the host as occurs in dri the same mechanisms that allow s. epidermidis to reside in human skin and mucosal tissues allow adhesion and biofilm formation upon the implanted device.

2015. this represents a potentially new pathogenic mechanism for s. epidermidis and a location where bacteria could survive to cause persistentrelapsing infections however its relevance in vivo has not yet been proven.host interaction with s. epidermidisthe interaction between s. epidermidis as a commensal with the host immune system is thought to play a role in the development of immunological tolerance.

taken together this suggests that while the persistence of orthopedic implant-associated s. aureus infections in vivo may well stem from its enhanced ability to invade osteoblasts and potentially osteoclasts other mechanisms such as biofilm formation may underlie the persistence of s. epidermidis in implant-related infection.finally the integration of immune responses within the bone system in the context of s. epidermidis infection has been largely unexplored.

epidermidis and other cons in clinical trials altastaph inh a-2 and pagibaximab have been found to be ineffective in reducing bacteremia in neonates patel and kaufman 2015. although there is still much work to be done to fully understand effective immune responses against s. epidermidis on-going research offers several candidates and strategies to develop new therapeutic products.additionally there are also t cell-mediated immune responses to s. epidermidis although they are poorly characterized.

280 289-299. doi meghji s. crean s. j. nair s. wilson m. poole s. harris m. et al.

28 273-279. doi simojoki h. salomaki t. taponen s. iivanainen a. and pyorala s. 2011. innate immune response in experimentally induced bovine intramammary infection with staphylococcus simulans and s. epidermidis.

2016a their default status as commensal bacteria renders this phenomenon largely irrelevant for the healthy human host.however with the advent of implanted medical devices such as prosthetic joints and fracture fixation devices s. epidermidis has emerged as an important opportunistic pathogen otto 2009 widerstrom 2016. in fact the implanted medical device may actually facilitate infection since any s. epidermidis inadvertently introduced into the surgical site are capable of rapidly adhering to and accumulating upon the surface of the device.

2015. with the increasing use of such devices coupled with high antibiotic resistance rates s. epidermidis dri will likely remain a clinical problem for generations to come.this review describes host interactions with s. epidermidis under both healthy commensal conditions and under conditions of an invasive dri.

particular attention will be paid to the impact of s. epidermidis in orthopedic device-related infection odri since these infections are amongst the most burdensome and expensive to treat darouiche 2004. finally since the impact of odri on bone tissue is a critical feature of these infections interactions between s. epidermidis and bone will also be described.s.

2008 and the skin of theabbreviations aae autolysinadhesion from s. epidermidis aap accumulation associated protein amps antimicrobial peptides apc antigen-presenting cell atle autolysin bhp biofilm associated homolog protein cons coagulase- negative staphylococcus cwa cell-wall-anchored dc dendritic cells dri device-related infection ecm extracellular matrix edna extracellular dna embp extracellular matrix-binding protein eps extracellular polymeric substances fpr2 formyl peptide receptor 2 ifn interferon il interleukin ko knock-out lta lipoteichoic acid modc monocyte-derived dendritic cells mrse methicillin resistant s. epidermidis mscramms microbial surface components recognizing adhesive matrix molecules odris orthopedic device-related infections pdg peptidoglycan pia polysaccharide intercellular adhesin pga poly-g-glutamic acid psms phenol-soluble modulins rankl receptor activator of nfkb ligand ros reactive oxygen species sdr serine- aspartate repeat protein sccmec staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec sess.

