Therefore the adaptable hetero- trophic algae could be selected and combined to culture in accordance with the specific organic components of wastewater for the future ap- plication.Table 2Biomass yield and lipid production of new isolated strains in wastewaters compared to microalgae previously studied under heterotrophic cultivation.Table 3Comparison about microalgae to treat different wastewater systems under heterotrophic cultivation.Table 4Effects of different carbon sources on growth of Botryococcus sp.

All the variables were percentages and the coefficients a b c d and e were allocated as the weight in the heterotrophic cultivation of algae in wastewaters such as 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 and 0.1 in this case.After selection the cultivation of the optimal microalgal strains in real domestic wastewater were split into two groups specifically using ARDWW and URDWW so as to check the application scope of the algae considering the symbiotic interactions between microalgae and bac- teria.

Hence it is necessary to acquire more information about the adaptation of the algae in case of the unusual organics rather than the preliminary dif- ferentiation as heterotrophic or autotrophic.Thus the combination of heterotrophic algae and wastewater has been attempted by several researchers.

NJD-1.- indicates that the substrate can be hardly metabolized and the strains deceased.ConclusionsTotal 20 heterotrophic microalgal strains were isolated from the aeration tank and identified as 11 Chlorella sp.

In this sense microalgal strains with high self-settleability are of great interest in any cultivation system.Therefore the present work attempted to screen and identify a set of heterotrophic algae from a local domestic WWTP and then perform a thorough assessment on the isolates in terms of growth ability organics tolerance nutrient removal potential lipid recovery and self-settle- ability.

With all these merits heterotrophic cultivation has been reported to enhance the algal biomass yield up to 25-fold of the autotrophic mode  .However heterotrophic cultivation of algae with wastewater still faces many obstacles in practice.

It showed that the growth of most strains gave the highest cell density within 5 d and the BP va- lues for all strains were above 0.42 g L-1 d-1.

Hence in this study 20 heterotrophic microalgal strains were isolated from a domestic wastewater treatment plant and identified according to morphology and partial 18S and 23S rRNA gene sequences.

It implies that the superiority of these four selected microalgae is especially embodied in nitrogen uptake whereas bacteria still outcompete microalgae in the area of organics degradation.Adaptation of the isolated microalgal strains to different organicsDue to the high cost of artificial mediums commercial application of bioenergy based on heterotrophic microalgal cultivation is still lim- ited.

Thus the strains ranking top four in the SI list namely NJD-1 NJD-3 NJD-2 and NJD-5 were also the algae had the highest LC above 56.6.

