notably humans domesticated wine strains in low-nitrogen environments which may have resulted in selective pressure on the urea cycle a nitrogen reclamation pathway marsit and dequin 2015. our genetic data reveal significant natural variation in urea cycle metabo- lism between strains from different ecological niches.table 1 principal components for urea cyclepc principal component orn ornithine cit citrulline gln glutamine glu glutamate arg arginine h2 broad-sense heritability.table 2 mqtl for urea cycle principal componentspc principal component.our initial mqtl analysis assumed that each metabolite was independent butmetabolite abundances in the urea cycle are intrinsically linked to one another.

this suggests that the mqtl with the strongest genetic signal are specific to the urea cycle.causal variation in two genes underlies natural variation in urea cycle metabolitesour pathway-level analysis of metabolite abundances nar- rowed mqtl and revealed promising candidate genes.

we mapped variation in urea cycle metab- olites to genetic variation in specific genes known to regulate amino acid biosynthesis dubois and messenguy 1985 sophianopoloulou and diallinas 2005. our functional assays reveal that genetic variation in two genes and  underlie the differences between individuals' abundance of several urea cycle metabolites.

2006. the continuous distribution of metabolite abundances in the segregants indi- cates that metabolite levels are controlled by many alleles of small effect figure 1 a and b. we also found statistical evidence from the shape of the phenotype distributions for genetic interactions among alleles that influence metabolite levels especially for metabolites that displayed transgressive segregation patterns figure 1c and table s3 in file s2 brem and kruglyak 2005. thus alleles with small additive effects and alleles that display epistatic interactions contrib- ute to natural variation in metabolite levels.for more than half of all metabolites abundance in some segregants was .

our results demonstrate that several segregating genetic variants impact urea cycle metabolism and that our rapid untargeted method identified mqtl that affect an important biochemical pathway.because segregating variation in the recombinant progeny influenced metabolites in the urea cycle we predicted that the parental strains would harbor differences in urea cycle metab- olism.

we used an untargeted mass spectrometry method to identify dozens of metabolite quantitative trait loci mqtl genomic regions containing genetic variation that control differences in metabolite levels between individuals.

we conclude that and are novel mqtgs metabolite quantitative trait genes.predicting phenotype from genotype a novel phenotype deduced from variation in the urea cyclein principle genetic variation in metabolism can predict new phenotypes.

supple- mental material file s2 contains the following items table s1 a metabolite reporting checklist table s2 processed av- erages for segregant metabolite abundance table s3 data for transgression epistasis and heritability table s4 data for linear models of mqtl table s5 processed averages for parents' metabolite abundance table s6 processed data for mixed linear models of parents' metabolite abundance and table s7 processed averages of reciprocal hemizygotes' me- tabolite abundance.results and discussionhigh-throughput measurement of untargeted metaboliteswe employed untargeted mass spectrometry to rapidly and systematically quantify abundances of unknown metabolites in natural isolates of the yeast s. cerevisiae.

understanding how genetic variation in specific genes affects metabolic phenotypes is an important step to- ward the goal of predicting phenotype from genetic variation.

2014. however few investigators have attempted to map genetic variation using untargeted mass spectrometry which can lead to the discovery of both unknown metabolic and genetic variation lewis et al.

if an mqtl mapped to multiple metabolites we took the overlap of the mqtl ranges for each metabolite and mapped the overlap- ping mqtl regions to the s. cerevisiae reference genome to identify candidate genes engel et al.

2009. we detected a genetically complex network of mqtl with sev- eral mqtl influencing the same metabolite and several metabolites with multiple mqtl.

on average individ- ual mqtl explain 11.0 of the variance in metabolite levels with a range of 6.0-22.6. as expected from our general transgression analysis we found that of the seven metabolites with multiple mqtl four metabolites had mqtl with effects in opposite directions.

given that multiple metabolites in the urea cycle map to overlapping mqtl we reasoned that combining metabolite measurements from the urea cycle would improve our power and allow us to narrow thelinkage region.

2009 but the genetic variation that causes metabolome differences between wild strains is unknown.we studied natural variation in the metabolome of s. cer- evisiae.

