the mutation appears related mostly to over-production of the signaling molecule cyclic di-guanosinetable 3 examples of various outcomes in percent inhibition after adjustment with fresh medium for growth differences for better growing isolates of p. aeruginosadecreased inhibition owing to decreased growthscv 15-71 isolate versus preformed a. fumigatus biofilm undiluted 15-71 supernatant9undiluted pa10 supernatant17diluted pa10 supernatant7increased inhibition owing to increased growthscv 15-75 isolate versus preformed a. fumigatus biofilmtable 4 conclusions regarding each small colony variant isolate as to reason for differences compared to pa10 in inhibition of a. fumigatus growth by planktonic culture filtratesformation of a. fumigatus biofilm 15-71 decreased growth15-73 decreased growth15-74 deficient production of inhibitors 15-75 ns15-76 deficient production of inhibitors when adjusted for better growth becomes less inhibitorydecreased inhibition owing to deficient production of inhibitorsscv 15-74 isolate versus a. fumigatus biofilm formation15-74 deficient production of inhibitors15-75 more inhibitory because of better growth15-76 increased production of inhibitors better growthincreased inhibition owing to increased production of inhibitorsscv 15-76 isolate versus preformed a. fumigatus biofilmns not a significant difference from pa10.

.live cells of p. aeruginosa are usually more inhibitory than culture filtratesthe effects of live p. aeruginosa cells planktonic or biofilm p. aeruginosa culture filtrates on a. fumigatus metabolism are summarized in table .as can be seen live p. aeruginosa cells are usually more inhibitory than their culture filtrates.

it has been noted that p. aeruginosa does not affect the xtt result under these conditions when a. fumigatus and p. aeruginosa live cells are co-cultured .adjustment for growth differencesto take into account growth differences among the p. aeruginosa isolates in additional experiments we also studied equalizing the planktonic culture filtrate o.d.

top bar graph of means with standard deviation bottom scattergram of individual wellstable 1 percent growth inhibition mean of a. fumigatus 10af strain by p. aeruginosa live cells or culture filtrates compared to the control a. fumigatus alone aggregated experimentspseudomonas aeruginosa number of aggregated experimentssmall colony variant isolatespa10 referenceresults inferior to the pa10 reference strain are presented in regular type face whereas results superior to the pa10 reference strain are indicated in bold facesuperscript indicated combinations where the inferior result was statistically significantly lower than that obtained for pa10 in at least 50 of the experiments  or where the superior result was statistically significantly higher than that obtained for pa10 in at least 50 of the experiments be easily done without the need to attempt to recover such as by repeated scraping biofilm attached to a hard surface and with likewise ease of producing a homogenous non-clumped suspension.thus we adjusted the aerobic planktonic growth of the better growing isolate in a study pair by the addition of fresh rpmi medium to the culture until the absorbance was similar to that obtained for the poorertable 2 growth of p. aeruginosa isolates used in this studyresults correspond to absorbance values at 610 nm.

1 representative small colony variant scv isolates of pseudomonas aeruginosa to show colony size on trypticase soy agar compared to usual pa10 reference isolate and some pigment variations describedpvdd-pa14 background  unable to synthesize pyoverdine a gift of eric deziel inrs-institut armand-frappier laval quebec canada was used as a comparator in the pyoverdine studies.all p. aeruginosa isolates were tested against a. fumigatus strain 10af a patient isolate shown to be virulent in in vivo studies  .all strains cited are available to the scientific community from the california institute for medical research on request.assayslive cells of p. aeruginosa and planktonic and biofilm culture filtrates in rpmi 1640 medium were produced as described .

ongoing studies in our labora- tory indicate that pyoverdine an extracellular side- rophore of p. aeruginosa is the main molecule involved in the inhibition of a. fumigatus by p. aeruginosa strains of normal colony size  .considerable study has also been made on the major p. aeruginosa phenotypes mucoid and non- mucoid  .

in the course of these studies involving multiple subcul- tures no revertants were seen for any of these scv isolates.pa10 previously studied in a cohort of cf non- scv non-mucoid phenotype p. aeruginosa isolates homogeneous for marked inhibition of a. fumigatus growth  was the reference p. aeruginosa isolate.

a p value of b0.05 was considered significant.resultsinhibition of a. fumigatus biofilm by scv isolateslive cells as well as planktonic or biofilm culture filtrates from all scv isolates studied as well as the reference isolate pa10 inhibited either a. fumigatus biofilm formation or preformed a. fumigatus biofilm.

when compared to a non- mucoid p. aeruginosa isolate from the relatively homogenous group of non-mucoid cf isolates that were powerful a. fumigatus inhibitors  scvs in contrast appear more variable in a. fumigatus inhibitory capacity.

our study could be replicated with scvs derived via multiple passages in vitro possibly utilizing mutage- nesis so that isogenic strains could be studied but the present study does have the advantage of studying clinical isolates arising in the cf lung environment.although a prior report had indicated scv isolates are slow-growing  we agree with a summary  which characterized them as variable in growth compared to other p. aeruginosa isolates.

for the inhibitionassay of a. fumigatus biofilm formation a suspension of 2 9 103 a. fumigatus conidia was co-cultured with either p. aeruginosa live cells 5 9 106 in rpmi 1640 medium or with 11 planktonic or biofilm culture filtrates to rpmi 1640 medium in 96-well tissue culture plates for 16 h at 37 degc with shaking at 65-70 rpm.

we reported non-mucoid p. aeruginosa isolates more inhibitory to a. fumigatus than mucoid ones.

in all exper- imental conditions live cells and planktonic or biofilm culture filtrates of p. aeruginosa versus a. fumigatus biofilm formation or preformed biofilm three scv isolates were less inhibitory than pa10 two equal or more inhibitory.

thus with 6 isolates 3 p. aeruginosa materials live cells planktonic culture filtrate biofilm culture fil- trate and 2 a. fumigatus targets formation of biofilmor preformed biofilm there were 36 possible combi- nations and up to 7 experiments with 8 replicates per experimental group in each were used to test each combination.

results with the pa10 reference isolate were highly consistent with those of a separate data set generated concurrently .growth differences among the p. aeruginosaisolateswe noted differences in growth in planktonic culture conditions among the p. aeruginosa isolates.

