We characterised the impact of the seven-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine PCV7 on pneumococcal carriage and the bacterial component of the nasopharyngeal microbiome during infancy.

The 7-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide-diphtheria CRM197 protein conjugate vaccine PCV7 was licensed in 2000 and markedly reduced the carriage of vaccine serotypes and the incidence of invasive disease-.

In this unique study of infants followed up from birth to 1 year with intensive sampling we have demonstrated that while PCV7 vacci- nation effectively reduces the nasopharyngeal carriage of vaccine serotypes pneumococcal carriage remains high above 75 among vaccinated infants due to an immediate expansion of non-vaccine serotypes throughout the first year of life.

Effect of reduced-dose schedules with 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine on nasopharyngeal pneumococcal carriage in children a randomized controlled trial.

The issue of replace- ment in carriage and disease is of particular interest within the Gambian context where infant pneumococcal nasopharyngeal carriage rates exceed 90 and PCV7 protects against approximately 63 of previously circulating serotypes .

This is consistent with findings from a small study conducted among 60 chil- dren aged 12-59 months in Kenya in which the 10-valent pneumococcal non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae protein-D conjugate vaccine PHiD-CV was not found to significantly alter the nasopharyngeal microbiome.Although a few studies have reported changes in the carriage of other pathogens such as Staphylococcus aureus and Haemophilus influenzae that co-colonise the nasopharynx following PCV vaccination- it is not clear if there is a link with nasopharyngeal carriage dynamics.

Population effect of 10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine on nasopharyngeal carriage of Streptococcus pneumoniae and non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae in Kilifi Kenya findings from cross-sectional carriage studies.

Nasopharyngeal carriage of PCV7 serotypes in Group 1 was significantly higher than in Group 2 and 3 p  0.01.However pneumococcal carriage remained comparable due to an expansion of non-vaccine serotypes in Groups 2 and 3.

Carriage rates of pneumococcus A vaccine B and non-vaccine serotypes C. Kaplan Meier Survival Curve for time to first acquisition of pneumococcus D vaccine serotypes E and non-vaccine serotypes F. Distribution of the top ten vaccine serotypes by group G. The vertical dashed lines are the study 2 3 and 4 month vaccination time points.

Effect of the introduction of pneumococcal conjugate vaccination on invasive pneumococcal disease in The Gambia a population-based surveillance study.

