the contribution of the amf symbiosis to p nutrition has focused on the interplay between direct p uptake via the roots and uptake via the amf pathway.whether amf contribute similarly to the n nutrition of the host plant is discussed taking into account that amf can actively transfer n to their host  even through the contribution of amf to plant p uptake is usually much larger than the contribution to plant n uptake .

an increasing number of studies have shown that conservation tillage using no-till and per- manent plant cropping systems also significantly enhances the potential of plant colonization by amf in comparison with conventional tillage .

in contrast it remains to be demon- strated if in a similar manner to p uptake the plant no3- or ammo- nium nh  transport systems are down regulated when the plant is colonized by amf .

whether the fungi with their own no - or nh  transporters are able to provide enough n for optimal plant growth and development also remains to be determined knowing that inorganic n taken up by the fungi can be incorporated into amino acids that are further transferred to the plant .

initially the physiological and molecular mechanisms involved in inorganic or organic n uptake by the fungi and their transfer to the plant should be investigated using a single plant species including n2 fixing legumes and a single fungal partner.

however in addition to the effects of differences in plant size inter-specific plant competition is more difficult to predict as different combinations of species-specific traits may either amplify or decrease nutrient competition in a my- corrhizal network.

using the controlled experimental systems described in  it will be interesting to study the physiological and regulatory mechanisms that control n uptake by the fungi and its transfer to the host plant when the mineral n is low or when there are high con- centrations of amino acids or carbohydrates present in the growth medium.tillage is another important parameter that influences the interac- tions between the host plant and the soil microbiota notably when there is a tripartite symbiosis between legumes rhizobiacae and amf .

in addition exploiting the genetic diversity of a given legume species will be a way to find the most efficient tripartite symbiotic partners for both n and p acquisition.agronomic importance of the diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungithe view of a one fungus-one plant mycorrhizal association does not hold ecologically since most plant roots are colonized by multiple fungi that are most of the time not host-specific as they can simultaneously colonize different plants forming a mycorrhizal network .

such amf species can be transferred from plant to plant through fragmented hyphal networks and colonized root pieces thus indicating that intensive tillage can favor such species .

this can be achieved by estimating the functional diversity of the amf species that are found in agricultural soils with different management practices and by measuring their impact on plant productivity .improving plant n uptake and utilization with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungithe ability of amf to increase nutrient uptake through the hyphal network offers an interesting strategy to limit the rather inefficient use of applied n by crops.

this is prob- ably because very different experimental systems and symbiotic asso-ciations were used encompassing a wide variety of different plant and fungal species and even plant genera originating from different habitats.

77 2014 69-80 u. baetz e. martinoia root exudates the hidden part of plant defense trends plant sci.

lopez-raez k. s e. foo strigolactones in plant interactions with beneficial and detrimental organisms the yin and the yang trends plant sci.

these fungi develop obligate symbioses with various host plant species thus increasing their ability to acquire nutrients.

such cropping systems lead to more efficient root colonization by amf and thus a better establishment of the plant fungal symbiosis.

