the experimental pancreatitis induced by feeding with the cde diet has already been established in this model acute necrotizing pancreatitis was induced that was accompanied by systemic inflammatory responses and peripancreatic organ injury 18. however whereas mice were fed the cde diet throughout the experiment in most previous studies 19 little has been reported about whether or not systemic inflammation persisted and subsequent remote organ injuries occurred after feeding with the cde diet ended the present study showed for the first time that cde diet-induced pancreatitis led to remote organ injuries such as splenomegaly and hepatomegaly which were also seen in severe acute pancreatitis in clinical settings.

p0.05 vs. control group.to play key roles in the pathogenesis and progression of acute pancreatitisand systemic inflammation has been known as a cause of remote organ injuries in sap as well as the early predictor of severity in human acute pancreatitis 22. the present study demonstrated that remote organ injuries represented as splenomegaly hepatomegaly and elevationof hepatic enzymes developed and were accompanied by acute pancreatitis induced by feeding with the cde diet.

mcp-1 is a family member of the c-c chemokines and it has been thought to be an important inflammatory mediator in the process of acute pancreatitis and to promote distant organ failure 24. in clinical settings serum mcp- 1 has been reported to increase in patients with complicated acute pancreatitis and mcp-1 has been thought to play a pivotal role in the pathological mechanism of complicated pancreatitis 25. the results of the present study suggest that mcp-1 could be a predictive and prognostic molecular marker for remote organ injuries and severe pancreatitis.we demonstrated for the first time that intake of the imf after the development of ap improved systemic inflammation and inflammation-related remote organ injuries.

these dietswere lyophilized and then vacuum-packed and refrigerated with an oxygen absorber and desiccants until administration to avoid rotting and oxidation.diet-induced severe acute pancreatitisto induce severe acute pancreatitis in mice we used a choline-deficient diet supplemented with 0.5 ethionine cde diet.

acute pancreatitis is a potentially lethal disease with a wide variation of clinical features and severity most patients have a mild form of the disease and recover but some patients develop severe acute pancreatitis sap with a poor prognosis and high mortality.

eur surg res 24 suppl 1 40-54. yamaguchi i hamada k yoshida m isayama h kanazashi s takeuchi k. 2009. risperidone attenuates local and systemic inflammatory responses to ameliorate diet-induced severe necrotic pancreatitis in mice it may provide a new therapy for acute pancreatitis.

1992. acute experimental hemorrhagic-necrotizing pancreatitis induced by feeding a choline- deficient ethionine-supplemented diet.

br j surg 96 1243-1252. pontes-arruda a demichele s seth a singer p. 2008. the use of an inflammation- modulating diet in patients with acute lung injury or acute respiratory distress syndrome a meta-analysis of outcome data.

mice were fasted for 12 hours and then fed a choline-deficient and ethionine-supplemented diet cde diet for 24 hours to induce pancreatitis.

differences were considered significant at p0.05.resultstime course changes in the cde diet-fed micethere was no change in dietary intake when intake of the cde diet was compared with intake of chow in the acclimation period -24 hr table 2. however after feeding with the cde diet dietary intake was significantly reduced until 48 hr and it was restored after 72 hr table 2.pancreatitis was induced by feeding with the cde diet.

37 1 1-8 2018an immune-modulating formula comprising whey peptides and fermented milk improves inflammation-related remote organ injuries in diet-induced acute pancreatitis in micekentaro nakamura1 kazuhiko fukatsu2 akina sasayama1 and taketo yamaji11nutrition research department food science  technology research laboratories meiji co. ltd. 1-29-1 nanakuni hachiouji tokyo 192-0919 japan2surgical center the university of tokyo tokyo japanreceived may 31 2017 accepted july 30 2017 published online in j-stage august 25 2017it has been demonstrated that an immune-modulating enteral formula enriched with whey peptides and fermented milk imf had anti-inflammatory effects in some experimental models when it was administered before the induction of inflammation.

here we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of the imf administration after the onset of systemic inflammation and investigated whether the imf could improve the remote organ injuries in an acute pancreatitis ap model.

nutrition management with the imf may be useful for alleviating remote organ injuries after ap.key words immune-modulating formula acute pancreatitis inflammation remote organ injuryintroductionit is well known that inflammation is an essential process in protecting the host against foreign invasion.

enteral nutrition in severe acute pancreatitis has been demonstrated to reduce mortality rate systemic infection and mof compared with parenteral nutrition recent clinical guidelines also recommend enteral nutrition rather than parenteral nutrition or no nutrition to patients with predicted sap various formulations for enteral nutrition have also been tried to improve the outcome of sap such as enteral formulas supplemented with probiotics prebiotics and synbiotics.

thus we confirmed that sustained inflammation and subsequent remote organ injuries such as liver and spleen injuries occurred in a diet-induced acute pancreatitis model and then investigated whether administration of the imf after the onset of systemic inflammation could improve these complications in this model.materials and methodsanimalsthree-week-old male c57bl6 mice were purchased from japan slc hamamatsu japan.

