the feces of the donor mice control and chronic hs-fed mice were collected and resuspended in pbs at0.125 g ml- 1. an amount of 0.15 ml of the solution was administered to mice in the corresponding groups orally via gastric gavage tube once daily in the first week every other day in the second week and twice each week from the 3rd week.

c57bl6 mice were intragastrically administered with feces from control mice and chronic high-salt-treated mice for the indicated weeks n  5-9. a the firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio in the cecal content 8 weeks after transplantation.

inthe current study dysbiosis directly induced by hs treatment would be the upstream factor for intestinal inflammation.in antibiotic and hs co-treated mice the intestinal ifn-g mrna level was similar to that in control mice and markedly decreased compared with that in hs mice  demonstrating that hs alone could not but that gut microbiota could induce intestinal inflammation 2 gut inflammation could indeed disrupt the intestinal microbiota however this disruption mainly occurred during obvious inflammation or a long-term inflammatory response asreported by others.

to test this hypothesis we fed mice with hs water for 8 weeks and studied the resulting intestinal pathophysiological changes and their contributions to early renal abnormalities.materials and methodsanimalssix- to eight-week-old male-specific pathogen-free c57bl6 mice were used.

next we analyzed the bacterial composition in the control group of mice compared with the hs-fed mice.

more importantly the urine albumincreatinine ratio that was the main marker for renal dysfunction was significantly increased in hs-fed mice when compared with control mice and antibiotic treatment could almost completely restore renal function .

two groups of mice that were fed a normal diet not high salt were orally administered with feces from control and hs-treated mice.

although the sodium concentration in the cecal content showed an increased trend in hs-fed mice compared with that in control mice supplementary figure 4 the absolute level of sodium that was transferred with the feces was quite small and the effects of redundant sodium could be ignored.

in addition 8 weeks after transplantation the cecal firmicutes bacteroidetes ratio which is the main marker of microbiota composition alteration was significantly higher in the control mice that received control feces than in the hs mice that received hs feces which was in agreement with our previous data that showed that hs feeding reduced the firmicutes bacteroidetes ratio in the cecum and demonstrated that our fecal microbiota transplantation experiment was successful .

furthermore as presented in c 4 weeks after administration gut permeability as monitored by fecal albumin content was significantly increased in the mice that received hs-fed feces and importantly the urine albumincreatinine ratio the main phenotype of the renal dysfunction observed in the current study was also significantly increased in the mice that received hs-fed feces 4 weeks after transplantation.

po0.05.were significantly increased in hs feces transplanted mice compared with control mice .

we fed mice 2 nacl in drinking water continuously for 8 weeks to induce early renal injury.

in addition intestinal immunological gene expression was impaired in mice with hs intake.

the fecal microbiota from mice fed chronic hs could independently cause gut leakiness and renal injury.

after 8 weeks of feeding mice were anesthetized and euthanized.

