these and other nhp spe- cies are prone to natural infection with t. cruzi when they are maintained in outdoor or indoor-outdoor housing in areas where t. cruzi infection is endemic in wild mammal reservoirs.fundamental questions that can be addressed with old world monkeys in translational research on chagas diseasethere are at least four fundamental questions pertaining to prevention and treatment of chagas disease that can be best answered by conducting research with old world monkeys in concert with research in mice and human subjects.which candidate drugs which dosages and durations of treatment and which combinations of those drugs are most efficacious as therapies for chagas diseasewhich candidate vaccines and which dosages and vaccina- tion regimens are most efficacious for prophylaxis against chagas diseasewhich candidate vaccines which dosages and vaccination regimens and in which combinations with candidate drugs are most efficacious for treating patientsdoes reduction in blood parasitemia andor cardiac parasite load in response to therapy lead to a reduction in the rate of disease progression and does elimination of all parasites form the body in response to therapy lead to prevention of disease progression or reduction in the rate of disease progressioneach of these questions involves many variables that may affect the answers therefore it is appropriate that the many candidate drugs and vaccines undergo extensive testing in mouse models to identify those that exhibit the greatest poten- tial.

we include studies on current knowledge of genetics epigenetics calorie restriction maternal calorie restriction and offspring health maternal obesity and offspring health nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and steatosis chagas disease microbiome stem cells and prevention of cvd.key words caloric restriction chagas disease epigenetics genetics maternal nutrition non-alcoholic fatty liver disease stem cellsc the authors 2017. published by oxford university press on behalf of the national academy of sciences.

also of interest is the observed disruption of the methionine cycle in ob- ese pregnant baboons suggesting an epigenetic mechanism by which obesity during pregnancy may impact fetal development .nash and steotosisnonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld the most common cause of chronic liver disease in the united states progresses to nash which can progress to end-stage liver disease.

2  237normal chow diet some animals develop insulin resistance dyslipidemia atherosclerosis and cvd recapitulating meta- bolic complications seen in humans   .rhesus macaques cynomologous macaques vervet mon- keys and snow monkeys also develop atherosclerosis when fed a high-fat diet long term   and their smaller size compared with baboons makes housing and husbandry more amenable for some research facilities.nhps also bring challenges to studies of cvd.

however nhp models such as the baboon with their strong similarity in dietary adaption with humans both being highly omnivorous as well as the large extent of genetic conser- vation and the ability to control diet and breeding presents a un- ique opportunity to investigate gene by diet interactions under tightly controlled experimental conditions.

since the early 1980s more than 3000 pedigreed baboons have been challenged with a high- cholesterol high-fat hchf diet containing 41 of the energy as fat by the addition of lard and 6.37 mg cholesterolg   for varying periods of time to assess the impact of this diet exposure on a wide range of phenotypes associated with lipid metabolism and cardiovascular health.

the results documented many significant gene by diet interactions including diet-specific effects of two major loci on apo-a1 levels in response to a high- fat diet  and a pattern of shared genetic ef- fects i.e.

these findings demonstrated that liver mirnas are responsive to diet that mirna response to a hchf diet challenge differs among baboons with different ldl-c serum concentra- tions and that mirnas may regulate ldl-c variation.serum hdl-c concentrations are inversely associated with cvd and hdl-c particles are essential for sequestering choles- terol from organs and macrophages.

demonstrated that a high-fat caloric-dense maternal diet structures the offspring's gut mi- crobiota and that the resultant dysbiosis is only partially cor- rected by a low-fat control diet after weaning.other studies involving captive or wild nhps             indicate that the nhp mi- crobiota is species-specific and altered by environmental factors e.g.

despite differences in host diet findings from these studies indicate that the gut microbial communities within humans and chimpanzees over- lap at broad taxonomic levels and assort into similar entero- types based on the relative abundances of bacterial genera.although these findings make a compelling case for using nhps to study how diet affects the gut microbiota of humans and influences cvd a recent study by amato et al.

in this study the authors compared the gut microbiota of hu- mans and vervet monkeys after consuming both a western diet high in animal fat and protein and low in fiber and a non- western diet low in animal fat and protein and high in fiber.

even though this study suggests that the vervet gut microbiota may not pro- vide an ideal model for understanding the effect of the human gut microbiota on host metabolism and nutrition in the context of a western diet the authors state that it may help identify novel therapeutics to improve human resistance to obesity via the gut microbiota if the vervet gut microbiota truly possesses properties that make it resistant to obesity when subjected to a western diet .

these factors along with the ability to deter- mine at necropsy if each posttreatment monkey is or is not still infected with t. cruzi by pcr assays of tissues will enable the fourth question posed above to be answered rigorously in a prac- tical time frame.microbiome--diet responsivenessthe microbiota is a complex community of microorganisms composed of bacteria archaea anaerobic fungi protozoa and viruses that influences host health and disease.

gastroenterology 1291663-1674.del chierico f vernocchi p dallapiccola b putignani l. 2014. mediterranean diet and health food effects on gut micro- biota and disease control.

2016. diet and gut microbial function in metabolic and cardiovascular disease risk.

