2 and 5 in colour.proliferator-activated receptor a ppar-a expression have attracted noteworthy scientific and clinical interest because of their reproducibility in anti-obesity effects in humans 7 8. for example lactobacillus amylovorus cp1563 which showed excellent hepatic and adipose ppar-a-agonistic activity in a mouse model of hfd-induced obesity decreased the adi- posity and plasma cholesterol levels in a clinical trial 7 8. in addition the in vitro cholesterol-reducing activity of lactic acid bacterium lab strains has been generally tested for screening probiotics with anti-obesity activity 11-13. unfor- tunately many of the selected strains did not demonstrate anti-obesity activity in vivo 14.in our previous study we found that kefir administra- tion for 3 weeks successfully modulated the gut microbiota in normal diet-fed mice 15. in particular kefir administra- tion increased the population of lactobacilluslactococcus and yeast as well as decreased the population of obesity-related mi- crobial groups 15. furthermore we found that regular kefir administration prevented hfd-induced obesity and nafld in an hfd-induced obesity model 16. kefir administration successfully changed the gut microbiota and mycobiota by enriching the gut environment with kefir microorganisms which was confirmed by targeted and untargeted metage- nomic analysis 16. remarkably we found that the increased populations of lactobacilluslactococcus and candida spp.

however hfd-fed groups harbored significantly greater number of bacteroidetes proteobacte- ria and enterobacteriaceae and lower number of firmicutes p  0.05. in addition mice in hfd-saline group showed significantly lower numbers of lactobacillus and lactococcus than all the other groups p  0.05. interestingly hfd-dh5 group exhibited significantly lower number of proteobac- teria and enterobacteriaceae among hfd-fed groups p  0.05.discussiongiven the significant contribution of gut microbiota to en- ergy homeostasis glucose metabolism and lipid metabolism of the host the use of probiotics has emerged as a strategy for preventing and treating obesity 23 24. because the regu- lation of body weight and adiposity via dietary modification is safer and more cost effective than medication a large number of studies have focused on developing anti-obesity probiotics as a food ingredient or health supplement 1. in the present study we conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the anti- obesity effects of l. kefiri dh5 isolated from kefir in an animal model of hfd-induced obesity.

all strains were identified as mi- croorganisms typically found in kefir 22.to select in vivo candidates among the 13 isolates their survivability in the artificial gastrointestinal environments and cholesterol-reducing ability were assessed using modi- fied mrs broth table 1. strains dh1 2 5 6 7 8 9 anddh1 2 4 5 6 7 9 10 12 13 showed excellent survivability in the artificial gastric and intestinal environments growth in the corresponding environment or 50 survival of the population respectively table 1. in addition cholesterol reduction by the isolates ranged from 4 to 51 indicating that l. kefiri dh5 was the most effective in reducing the cholesterol levels table 1. on the basis of these results we selected three isolates--dh4 dh5 and dh7--for further in vivo experiments and their purpose is described in table 1.change in body and organ weights and serum cholesterol concentrationweekly changes in the body weight weight of livers and epi- didymal adipose tissues and blood cholesterol levels at week 6 of all experimental groups are presented in fig.

ppar-a acts as a dietary lipid sensor whose upregulation re- sults in an increase in fatty acid oxidation and consequently hypolipidemic effects 33. in our previous study we found that kefir consumption decreased the development of obe- sity and nafld in hfd-fed mice via upregulation of hepatic and adipose ppar-a expression which is strongly correlated with the population of lab derived from kefir 16. however in that study we could not identify the central player of this mechanism 16. interestingly our present results indicated the key player because l. kefiri is an important indicator mi- croorganism of kefir and has central roles in its beneficial health effects 34 35. to the best of our knowledge this is the first study to demonstrate the anti-obesity effects of this species.ppar-a has been used as a target of gene therapy forobesity and dyslipidemia especially for synthetic agonists such as fibrates 33. however emerging studies suggestfigure 5. proposed dual mech- anism underlying the anti- obesity and anti-non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld ef- fects of l. kefiri dh5 in high- fat diet hfd-fed mice.

then experimental mice were randomly divided into six groups chow diet-saline group chow-saline group n  4 chow diet-dh5 group chow- dh5 group n  4 60 hfd-saline group hfd-saline group n  8 60 hfd-dh4 group hfd-dh4 group n 8 60 hfd-dh5 group hfd-dh5 group n  8 and 60 hfd-dh7 group hfd-dh7 group n  8. for chow diet groups mice were fed a standard chow laboratory dietad libitum picolab rodent diet 20 no.

the chow-saline and hfd- saline groups were orally administered 0.2 ml of 0.9 steril- ized saline while the chow-dh5 and hfd-dh5 groups were given 0.2 ml of 0.9 sterilized saline containing 2 x 108 cfu of l. kefiri dh5.

remarkably the adipocytes of the dh5 groups were significantly smaller than those of the other hfd-fed groups fig.

p  0.05 p  0.001 compared to hfd-saline group analysis of variance and tukey method.macroscopic and microscopic evaluation of epididymal adipose tissue and livermacroscopically the livers of chow diet-fed groups had sharp margins and dark-red color whereas those of hfd-saline hfd-dh4 and hfd-dh7 groups had blunt margins and yellow-red color suggesting obvious hepatic steatosis in these three groups fig.

kefiri dh5 upregulated ppar-a fabp4 and cpt1 expression in the epididymal adipose tissues 2.29- 1.77- and 2.05-fold change respectively suggesting a reduction in adiposity by stimulating fatty acid oxidation.conclusion l. kefiri dh5 exerts anti-obesity effects by direct reduction of cholesterol in the lumen and upregulation of ppar-a gene in adipose tissues.keywordscholesterol reduction  high fat diet  lactobacillus kefiri  obesity  ppar-areceived march 14 2017revised june 2 2017accepted june 27 2017introductionobesity is becoming endemic in developed countries and is currently considered an important risk factor of metabolic syndrome including diabetes hepatic steatosis and cirrho- sis and cardiovascular diseases 1 2. the etiology of obesity is complex it includes environmental genetic neural andcorrespondence prof. kun-ho seoe-mail abbreviations aox alternative oxidase acs acetyl-coa syn- thetase cpt1 carnitine palmitoyltransferase i fabp4 fatty acid- binding protein 4 hdl high-density lipoprotein hfd high- fat diet lab lactic acid bacteria ldl low-density lipoproteinbehavioral factors 3 4. especially excessive consumption of energy-dense foods such as a high-fat diet hfd is the primary cause of obesity 5 6. therefore researchers have focused on the development of dietary supplements to coun- terbalance the excessive energy input caused by consuming energy-dense foods 67 probiotics is one of the most actively investigated agents for their anti-obesity activity 1 2 8.to date a wide variety of mechanisms underlying the anti- obesity effects of probiotics have been described i mod- ulation of energy metabolism ii improvement of intesti- nal barrier iii reduction of low-grade inflammation 8 9iv modulation of autonomic nerve activity and v mod- ulation of appetite 2 6 10. recently probiotics which ac- celerate fatty acid oxidation via upregulation of peroxisomenafld non-alcoholic fatty liver disease rrna ribosomal rna ppar-a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor acolour online see the article online to view figs.

this could be attributable for the reduction of cholesterol in intestinal digesta subsequent reduction of cholesterol absorption by the intestinal entero- cytes and finally decreased lipid influx into liver and adipose tissues 28. in addition we previously determined inhibitory effects of l. kefiri dh5 on pancreatic lipase activities and intra- cellular lipid accumulation in preadipocyte cells indicating possible anti-obesity action in vivo data not published.in this study l. kefiri dh5 exerted a more potent anti- obesity effect in hfd-fed mice than leuc.

a large proportion of the orally admin- istered l. kefiri dh5 remains active and viable in the gas- trointestinal tract and exerts po- tent anti-obesity effects in hfd- fed mice via a dual mechanismi direct reduction of excessivecholesterol in the lumen to de- crease overall fat influx and ii upregulation of genes encoding ppar-a cpt1 and fabp4 in adi- pose tissue to increase fatty acid oxidation.that pre- and probiotics could act as effective ppar-a agonists 7 8. a recent study showed that the administration of ppar-a-agonistic probiotics l. amylovorus cp1563 for 12 weeks in the overweight and mildly obese individuals improved the adiposity and lipid and glucose metabolism with no adverse effects 7. another study reported that bifidogenic dietary fructo-oligosaccharides alleviate hepatic steatosis by stimulating fatty acid oxidation resulting from upregulation of the ppar-a gene 36.our study showed that administration of l. kefiri dh5 significantly upregulated the expression of ppar-a in the epididymal adipose tissue.

based on these results l. kefiri dh5 administra- tion alleviates dysbiosis of gut microbiota induced by hfd 16.based on the results of the present study we developed a model for the proposed anti-obesity effects of l. kefiri dh5 in hfd-fed mice fig.

research articledual function of lactobacillus kefiri dh5 in preventing high-fat-diet-induced obesity direct reduction of cholesterol and upregulation of ppar-a in adipose tissuedong-hyeon kim1 dana jeong1 il-byeong kang1 hyunsook kim2 kwang-young song1 and kun-ho seo11 center for one health college of veterinary medicine konkuk university hwayang-dong gwangjin-gu seoul korea2 department of food  nutrition college of human ecology hanyang university seongdong-gu seoul koreascope kefir consumption inhibits the development of obesity and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nalfd in mice fed 60 high-fat diet hfd.

based on the survivability and in vitro cholesterol-reducing activity three kefir isolates dh4 dh5 and dh7 were selected for the further in vivo experiments.experimental animalsall institutional and national guidelines for the care and use of laboratory animals were followed and approved by the konkuk university animal experiment ethics committee ku16046 and ku17020.

in addition l. kefiri dh5 administration reduced hepatic steatosis caused by hfd consumption.since the prevalence of overweight and obesity is increas- ing many researchers have actively developed anti-obesity agents 425. in these processes various in vitro screening as- says are employed to select anti-obesity probiotics including the measurement of bile salt hydrolase activity cholesterol- reducing activity inhibition of lipid accumulation in 3t3-l1 cells and triacylglycerol lipase assay 11 26 27. in this study we measured the cholesterol-reducing activity of isolates as this activity is directly related to the prevention and treatment of hfd-induced obesity 28. the kefir isolates reduced the level of cholesterol up to 51.6 for 24 h in the modified mrs medium.

