research articlegeographical variations in bacterial communities associated with soft coral scleronephthya gracillimumseonock woo12 shan-hua yang3 hsing-ju chen3 yu-fang tseng3 sung-jin hwang4 stephane de palmas56 vianney denis7 yukimitsu imahara8 fumihito iwase9seungshic yum12 sen-lin tang31 korea institute of ocean science  technology geoje republic of korea 2 faculty of marine environmental science university of science and technology ust geoje republic of korea3 biodiversity research center academia sinica taipei taiwan 4 department of eco-biological science woosuk university jincheon republic of korea 5 biodiversity program taiwan international graduate program academia sinica and national taiwan normal university taipei taiwan 6 department of life science national taiwan normal university taipei taiwan 7 institute of oceanography national taiwan university taipei taiwan 8 wakayama laboratory biological institute on kuroshio wakayama city wakayama japan 9 shikoku marine life laboratory otsuki-town kochi japan these authors contributed equally to this work.

the bray--curtis similarity index was calculated using the relative percentage of each class in each sample and nmds ordination was performed in primer 6. the s. gracillimum-associated bacterial composition is shown by site twg green island taiwan twk kenting taiwan krm moonsum korea krs sungsan korea jpk kochi japan and jpw wakayama japan.based on the nmds result and  s. gracillimum-associated bacterial communi- ties differed geographically.

the s. gracillimum associated bacterial composition were denoted as twg green island taiwan twk kent- ing taiwan krm moonsum korea krs sungsan korea jpk kochi japan and jpw wakayama japan.docxs2 fig.

the s. gracillimum associated bacterial composition were denoted as twg green island tai- wan twk kenting taiwan krm moonsum korea krs sungsan korea jpk kochi japan and jpw wakayama japan.docxacknowledgmentsthis work was supported by korean institute of ocean science and technology pe99541 nrf-2017r1a2b201254 korean coral resources bank kcrb funded by the ministry of land transport and maritime affairs korea and biodiversity research center academia sinica and the seto marine biological laboratory kyoto university and biological institute on kuroshio.

evolutionary analyses were conducted in mega7 .resultshigh-throughput 454 pyrosequencing of the hypervariable v1 to v4 regions of bacterial 16s ribosomal rna was done to investigate bacterial composition in the tissues of s. gracillimum specimens collected from japan korea and taiwan.

although bacterial composition of seawater is different from that of s. gracillimum it was unclear if minor bacterial groups in seawater become soft coral-associated bacteria influencing the bacterial composition of s. gracillimum.

endozoicimonaceae was the dominant group in corals from korea and japan whereas mycoplasma was dominant in corals from taiwan corals.

bacterial communities tended to be grouped by site korea japan and taiwan but communities in korean samples grouped more closely to samples from japan than to those from taiwan.

the colours and associations of otus with countries are as follows green for taiwan and japan purple for japan and korea and black for korea japan and taiwan.

the shannon's index values for samples from the two locations in japan were higher than those for the samples from korea and taiwan .a total of 102 bacterial otus were obtained from s. gracillimum.

bacterial compositions of seawater reported previously were different from that in s. gracillimum in seawater of korea the dominant bacterial groups were psedoaltero- monadaceae vibrionaceae and sar11-1  in green island and kenting vibrio cyanobac- teria and marin group a were majority -.

it may be that the high abundance of rickettsiales in our study was a consequence of higher seawater temperatures in taiwan.conclusionin this study bacterial communities associated with the soft coral s. gracillimum were differed among study sites in korea japan and taiwan.

coral samples from six geographically distinct areas two sites each in taiwan japan and korea had considerable variation in their associated bacterial communities and diversity.

however in the present study latitudinal separation of sampling sites exceeded 10 taiwan to japan 11.92 taiwan to korea 11.90. we inferred that large latitu- dinal differences or differences between oceans should be considered when investigating geo- graphical aspects of microbial composition of soft corals.composition of coral-associated bacteria is known to be influenced by temperature and season .

however we did not establish any relationship between bacterial diversity in s. gracilli- mum and human activities therefore further studies will be needed to investigate this phenomenon.although seawater sampling was not undertaken at the six sampling sites in this study there have been several reports of the bacterial composition of seawater from some of these sites or nearby.

