since incubation time and background microbiota can be a major factor in the accuracy of enumeration methods microbiome analysis was also conducted on samples from chicken breast inoculated with mixed cultures at various incubation times to determine bacterial compositional shifts occurring over the incubation time period.materials and methodsbacterial strainsalmonella typhimurium atcc 14028 marker strain nalidixic acid resistance strain was stored at 20 oc in tryptic soy broth tsb becton dickinson and company sparks md supplemented with nalidixic acid na 20 mgml also containing 20 glycerol.

7. relative abundance of major bacteria among of chicken breast samples which were inoculated with mixed culture bacteria from chicken rinsate plus salmonella typhi- murium after different incubation time 0 4 and 24 h at a phylum a and genus level b. f and o in parenthesis stand for taxonomical family and order levels respectively.conventional plating and below 2.68 log copiesml for qpcr as shown in  of s. typhimurium low bacterial levels could be successfully detected with the mpn-qpcr-sit.the concept and procedure for the mpn-qpcr-sit developed in the present study is very straightforward.

our study differs from these previous studies by integration of a shortened incubation time 4 h thus required detection time for completion is shorter than these previous methods.the mpn-qpcr-sit retains both the advantages of mpn and qpcr while minimizing limitations associated with both methods such as the poor detection limit with qpcr and the extensive in- cubation time of mpn required for confirmation.

the respective r values were 0.31 from thetable 3population log cfuml or mpnml of s. typhimurium marker strain in mixed cell culture s. typhimurium th bacteria in chicken rinsate on chicken breast determined by various enumeration methods including conventional mpn the mpn-qpcr-sit developed in this study conventional plating method and quantitative pcr.trial population of salmonella on chicken skinaerobic plate countmpn-qpcr-sit log mpngconventional mpn log mpngconventional plating quantitative pcrnd not detected.fig.

3. scatter plot to express correlation of recovered bacterial cell and bland-altman plot to assess 95 limits of agreement between the mpn-qpcr-sit x-axis developed in the present study and various enumeration methods y-axis including a conventional mpn method b conventional plating method and c quantitative pcr to quantify salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium in mixed bacterial cell suspensions s. typhimurium th bacteria from chicken rinsate.salmonella typhimurium in mixed cell culture backgroundsquantification of s. typhimurium in mixed cell cultures s. typhimurium bacteria from chicken rinsate was performed to evaluate the reliability of the mpn-qpcr-sit when non-target background microorganisms are present.

the r value from the unweighted pcoa plot implied that there was sig- nificant dissimilarity among different incubation time groups in terms of phylogenetic distance.represents bacterial abundance at the phylum and genus level in chicken breast inoculated with mixed culture from the chicken rinsate without s. typhimurium inoculation as a control.

some samples could not be enumerated when mpn plates were incubated for 2 and 3 h while mpn-qpcr-sit at 4 h resulted in similar data with mpn-qpcr-sit conducted on samples after 5 h of incubation time data not shown.

edevelopment of a rapid method to quantify salmonella typhimurium using a combination of mpn with qpcr and a shortened time incubationsun ae kim si hong park sang in lee steven c. rickecenter for food safety department of food science university of arkansas fayetteville ar 72704 usaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 26 september 2016 received in revised form16 december 2016accepted 25 january 2017available online 30 january 2017keywordssalmonella typhimurium quantificationdetection rapid simplea b s t r a c t a novel method was developed for the specific quantification of s. typhimurium using a most-probable- number mpn combined with qpcr and a shortened incubation time mpn-qpcr-sit.

the mpn-qpcr-sit includes a shortened incubation time step before confirmation of the bacterial presence with qpcr to reduce detection time.

4. scatter plot to express correlation of recovered bacterial cell and bland-altman plot to assess 95 limits of agreement between the mpn-qpcr-sit x-axis developed in the present study and various enumeration methods y-axis including a conventional mpn method b conventional plating method and c quantitative pcr to quantify salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium in mixed bacterial cell suspensions on chicken breast s. typhimurium th bacteria from chicken rinsate.fig.

2. scatter plot to express correlation of recovered bacterial cell and bland-altman plot to assess 95 limits of agreement between the mpn-qpcr-sit x-axis developed in the present study and various enumeration methods y-axis including a conventional mpn method b conventional plating method and c quantitative pcr to quantify salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium in pure bacterial cell suspensions.table 2population log cfuml or mpnml of s. typhimurium marker strain in mixed cell culture suspension s. typhimurium th bacteria in chicken rinsate determined by various enumeration methods including conventional mpn the mpn-qpcr-sit developed in this study conventional plating method and quantitative pcr.trialpopulation of salmonella in mixed cultureaerobic platempn-qpcr-sit log mpnmlconventional mpn log mpnmlconventional platingquantitative pcrcountmpnlower boundaries of the 95 ciupper boundaries of the 95 cimpnlower boundaries of the 95 ciupper boundaries of the 95 cilog cfumllog copiesml10.25-0.601.110.25-0.601.11ndnd 1.8420.660.041.281.060.451.67ndnd2.03nd not detected.fig.

after homogeni- zation of inoculated chicken breast samples 1 ml of each homog-enate was placed in a 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube and subsequently incubated at 37 oc for 0 4 or 24 h reflective of the incubation times needed for qpcr mpn-qpcr-sit or conventional mpndirect plating enumeration methods respectively.

enterobacteriaceae other abundance was only 3.40 4 h incubation and 0.50 24 h incubation in the control samples b. salmonella was not detected in the microbiome analysis which was consistent with the absence of salmonella in chicken rinsate and breast confirmed earlier by selective plating and qpcr.a shows total bacterial phyla among three different samplegroups inoculated with s. typhimurium.

after incubation 1 ml aliquots from each of the 48 samples 16 chicken breastsamples 3 time points were utilized to extract dna using a qiaamp blood and tissue kit qiagen valencia ca according to the manufacturer's instructions.

6. relative abundance of major bacteria among of chicken breast samples which were inoculated with mixed culture without as a control after different incubation time 4 and 24 h at a phylum a and genus level b. f and o in parenthesis stand for taxonomical family and order levels respectively.weighted pcoa plot and 0.56 from the unweighted plots.

