after 18 hours of co-incubation of epithelial cells with cms phase contrast microscopy demonstrated that j774 wt cm and j774ddgs cm induced clear reassembly of epithelial monolayers and striking morphological changes in adherent cells characterized by mesenchymal-like morphology in both epithelial lines .

confocal microscopy of the luminal side of the explants demonstrated that incubation with j774wt cm led to epithelial cell depletion and epithelial layer reorganization in com- parison to j774 cm alone .cd44cd24 cell populations are enriched in epithelial cells treated with macrophagee.

taken together these findings provide evidence for a triangulated molecular dialogue between e. faecalis macrophages and colonic epithelial cells which may have important implications for condi- tions in the gut that involve inflammation injury or tumorigenesis.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.introductiondynamic crosstalk between intestinal epithelial cells iecs the microbes that colonize their apical surface and the surrounding local immune cells is necessary to maintain intestinal homeostasis .

faecalis cms demonstrates reassembly of epithelial monolayer and morphological changes of adherent epithelial cells when j774e.

faecalis cms affect intercellular junctions in epithelial monolayersit is known that changes of epithelial cells morphology depend on cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion .

cell-cell contact is maintained via intercellular junction proteins which through connections to the actin cytoskeleton coordinate cellular organization maintain the integrity of epithelial monolayer and control phenotypic transition of epithelial cells  .

a proposed model of epithelial monolayer reassembly presented on .we assumed that disruption of epithelial monolayer integrity begins as a process of cell extrusion whereby detached anchorage-dependent cells undergo anoikis which is a form of programmed cell death.

explants were incubated for 6 hours with j774 cm and j774wt cmchanges in expression and localization of epithelial cell-cell junction proteins e-cadherin and zo-1 after 18 h of treatment of epithelial cell monolayers with macrophagee.

faecalis cms independent of gelesprein the present study we used a primary colonic epithelial cell line which was generated from normal mouse colon using the epithelial selective marker epcam-1 cd326 according to information presented by the vender cell biologics chicago il.

consequently various types of colonic epithelial cells including stemprogenitors cells could be present in this cell line.others have described primary colonic epithelial cell lines derived from normal human colon biopsies with progenitors cell features and the ability for self-renewal .

cellular reorganization is not observed when epithelial monolayers are exposed to cm from macrophages co-incubated with e. faecalis gelespre-deficient mutants to the cm of macrophages alone or to e. faecalis gelespre alone.cd44cd24 population enriched in epithelial cells treated with j774 e. faecalis cms independently on gelespre.

quantification of multicellular structures growing in matrigel demonstrated that c57cells treated with j774wt cm give rise to a higher number of colonies compared to untreated cells .in summary results from the series of experiments in this study demonstrate that the inter- action of the commensal bacteria e. faecalis and macrophages results in a conditioned media cm that causes reassembly of epithelial monolayers and promotes epithelial cells to express a migrating phenotype.

research articlemedia from macrophages co-incubated with enterococcus faecalis induces epithelial cell monolayer reassembly and altered cell morphologynatalia belogortseva1 monika krezalek1 kristina guyton1 christine labno2 valeriy poroyko3 olga zaborina1 john c. alverdy11 department of surgery university of chicago chicago illinois united states of america 2 integrated light microscopy core facility university of chicago chicago illinois united states of america3 department of medical oncology and therapeutics research city of hope comprehensive cancer center duarte california united states of america open accesscitation belogortseva n krezalek m guyton k labno c poroyko v zaborina o et al.

2017 media from macrophages co-incubated with enterococcus faecalis induces epithelial cell monolayer reassembly and altered cell morphology.

the funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.abstractsignal exchange between intestinal epithelial cells microbes and local immune cells is an important mechanism of intestinal homeostasis.

