therefore given the limitations of existing strategies improved methods for selectively labeling gutmicrobiotas are still needed.herein we report the development of a cell-selective labeling method for two-color fluorescence imaging of gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas in the mouse gut which is based on exploiting their distinctive cell wall components a. gram-negative bacteria possess characteristic lipopolysaccharides lps in their outer membrane.

two-color fluorescence microscopy revealed the relative spatial localization of gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas in the gut b.in summary the chemical strategy developed in this work achieves cell-selective labeling of gram-negative and gram- positive bacteria in the mouse gut microbiota.

nevertheless this in vivo metabolic labeling of microbiota with 8azkdo demonstrated its potential as a lps expression probe for different gut gram- negative bacteria in situ.the fluorescently labeled microbiotas were then intragastri- cally administered to another group of living mice and thedistribution of the labeled gram-negative bacteria was visualized by fluorescence microscopy in the frozen intestinal sections b. furthermore employing intravital two- photon microscopy the administered gram-negative bacteria could be directly imaged in the small intestines of living mice especially in the villus regions where mammalian tissues were delineated by staining of nuclei c. in addition thedistribution of 8azkdo-labeled microbiota on excised mouse digestive tracts was visualized by an in vivo imaging system on excised mouse digestive tracts d. after being click labeled with alkyne-biotin and stained with streptavidin-cy7 the microbiota were administered to living mice.

to the best of our knowledge this is the first demonstration of selective labeling and fluorescence imaging of gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria in a living gut microbiota.next we evaluated 8azkdo and vanco-cy3 for in situ labeling of microbiota in the mouse gut.

a new method reported recently combined the use of dna staining with computational analysisreceived june 7 2017revisedjuly 5 2017published july 6 2017c 2017 american chemical society3889doi figure 1. cell-selective labeling of gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas.

an azido analogue of kdo 8-azido-8-deoxy-kdo 8azkdo has been shown to be able to metabolically label lps in several gram- negative species including escherichia coli salmonella typhimu- rium legionella pneumophila etc.we therefore envisioned that 8azkdo might be used to selectively label gram-negative bacteria in the complex gut microbiotas.

furthermore we sought to demonstrate two-colorfigure 3. two-color fluorescence imaging of gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas in the mouse gut.

after two rounds of sorting the 8azkdo-labeled bacteria were analyzed by 16s rdna sequencing which indicated that theyfigure 2. in vivo metabolic labeling and visualization of gram-negative microbiotas in the mouse gut.

selective imaging of gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas in the mouse gutwei wangyuntao zhuand xing chencollege of chemistry and molecular engineering peking-tsinghua center for life sciences sssynthetic and functional biomolecules center and key laboratory of bioorganic chemistry and molecular engineering of ministry of education peking university beijing 100871 china he bacterial communities inhabiting the gut of human and other animals consist of hundreds to thousands of species.

to explore these issues selective imaging of gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas in the gut is ofgreat utility but remains a technical challenge.because many microbes in the gut microbiota are not yet amenable to genetic manipulations tagging the microbiota with fluorescent proteins has only met with limited success to date.

the distributions of previously labeled gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas were visualized simultaneously.

hoechst staining was used to label the nucleus.fluorescence imaging of gram-negative and gram-positive microbiotas in the mouse gut.

a in vivo metabolic labeling of gram-negative microbiota with 8azkdo.

we then intragastri- cally administered an aqueous solution of 8azkdo 100 mg kg-1 per gavage to a group of c57bl6 mice and their intestinal bacteria were collected after four gavages within 12 h. following click reaction with alkyne-tamra fluorescent labeling of the gram-negative microbiota was observed  a right.

the gut microbiotas were cultured with 8azkdo and reacted with alkyne-tamra followed by labeling with vanco-bodipy.

