the ph was evaluated by immersing the probe approxi- mately 1e2 cm below the casings.the analyses were performed on two independent batches per each batch two replicates were analyzed 80 different samples were analyzed 5 measurements of ph for two batches and each batch in duplicate for 4 series.the results were modelled as ph decrease and fitted through a lag-exponential model   cast in the following formodor b slime production or discoloration color c after the application of finger pressure muscle returns more than half way texture.the outlier test was preliminary done on the sensory scores to highlight and eliminate the outliers then the scores were analyzed through the krustal-wallis to assess the basic requisite of the normal distribution and finally by one-way anova using tukey's test as the post-hoc comparison test p  0.05. the statistic was performed through the software statistica for windows stasoft tulsa usa.dph 14 n'o t - lwheredph and t are the dependent and the independent variables respectively ph decrease and time-day l the lag phase d i.e.

15 oc growth index at 15 oc 5 and 7.5 nacl growth index in mrs supplemented with salt ph 4 and ph 10 growth index in mrs adjusted to ph 4 and 10 acidification ph decrease in mrs.validation is a kind of riskbenefit analysis as it is not possible to find a super-microorganism.

for the group 1 a factor 1 and factor 2 accounted 60 of the total variability moreover the variables acidification ph 4 ph 10 5 nacl and 7.5 naclwere related to factor 1 whereas the variable 15 oc was related tofactor 2.as a function of the factor 1 the factorial space could be divided in two regions the first at left quadrants ii and iii for the isolates with the highest acidification and able to grow at ph 4.0 and the second at the right quadrants i and iv for the isolates able to grow in presence of salt or at ph 10.0. in addition in the upper side of thefactorial space there is a region including the isolates growing at 15 oc.

the probiotic characterization was based upon the assessment of some classical traits survival at ph 2.5 and with bile salts added antibiotic resistance as well as on some screening protocols for the evaluation of the ability to adhere to the mucosa of the gut hydrophobicity and auto-aggregation indices and the antimicrobial activity towards pathogens.regarding the survival of the isolates to gastric ph and their tolerance to bile salts at ph 2.0 viability loss was not significant after 3 h data not shown otherwise it varied from 0.2 to 1 log cfu ml isolates 20 45 62 and 68 to 3e4 log cfuml isolates 2 7 10 40 and 64 after 24 h. at ph 2.5 viability loss was less significant.

3. growth index at 48 h of lab in mrs adjusted to ph 3 4 or 10. the numbers on the bars indicate the isolates per each class while the curves are the normal distri- butions fitted to the data.conditions at ph 2 no isolate was able to grow whereas at ph 3 most of the targets showed a moderate-to-strong inhibition with a gi in the range 25.96e50.51 mean value of 40.05 - 4.22 .

at ph 4 a growth similar to the control was observed for all isolates mean value of 88.58 - 2.43. under alkaline conditions the isolates were not inhibited gi of 84.60 at ph 10 and  100 at ph 9.the last assay for the technological characterization was the acidification.

thus the final selection was done by choosing some isolates representative of each side isolates 2 9 and 10 for their high acidification isolates 11 13 and 40 because of the high resistance to salt and growth at ph 4.0 the isolate 7 because of its high growth index at 15 oc.b shows the pca for the isolates of the group 2. factor 1 and factor 2 accounted the 65 of the total variability the variables ph 4.0 5 nacl and 7.5 nacl were related to the factor 1 and divided the factorial space in two regions left quadrants ii and iii isolates growing at ph 4.0 and right quadrants i and iv isolates resistant to salt.

the in vitro low ph tolerance study revealed that 7 isolates at ph 2.5 showed equal percent of viability as compared to ph 7 control.

lactic acid bacteria lab are the dominant microorganisms in many fer- mented fish products where their primary role is to ferment car- bohydrates and reduce ph the combination of low ph below 4.5 and organic acids mainly lactic acid is the main preservation factor in this kind of products .

this assay involves the use of a laboratory medium containing amino acids as pre- cursors of amines and a ph indicator bromocresol purple when ph increases for the decarboxylation of amino acids the color turns from green to purple.

then the variables were used to carry out a principal component analysis to choose the most promising isolates for probiotic characterization section .probiotic characterizationsurvival at ph 2.0 2.5 and with 0.3 of bile salt addedafter bacteria growth at 30 oc in mrs broth for 24 h cells were harvested by centrifugation at 1200 g for 10 min suspended in sterile distilled water adjusted to ph 2.0 or 2.5 or supplemented with bile salt 0.3 wv oxoid and incubated at 37 oc.

after mixing through a sterile glass rod samples were mechanically stuffed into collagen casings 28 mm diameter andleft to ferment at 30 oc for 7 days.the fermentation was monitored by measuring the ph througha ph electrode 5050t crison crison instruments barcelona spain.

also for thesefermented food the primary role of starter cultures is to convert the available carbohydrates and thereby decrease the ph the combi- nation of low ph 4.5 and organic acids remains the main pres- ervation factor inhibiting the growth of pathogenic and spoilage bacteria and contributing to their prolonged shelf-life  .the selection of lab as starter cultures with probiotic properties for fermented fish production should comprise the evaluation of their technological and probiotic traits over their identification and attribution to species included in the qps list qualified presumption of safety.

the research was divided into different phases 1 evaluation of technological traits of the isolates focusing on their growth as a function of ph tem- perature salt and selection of the most promising strains through a multivariate approach 2 analysis of the probiotic traits and mo- lecular identification 3 use of the most promising strains for fishfermented sausage production.materials and methodsisolation and identification of lablab strains were isolated from intestinal microbiota of sea bream sparus aurata and sea bass dicentrarchus labrax speci- mens kindly furnished from lepore mare fasano br italy.

laboratory media without amino acids were also inoculated and used as control.growth assays and acidification in lab mediumthese assays were conducted in mrs broth supplemented with different amounts of nacl 5 7.5 10 and 12.5 adjusted to ph 2 3 4 9 and 10 through hcl or naoh 1.0 n or incubated at different temperatures 10 15 and 45 oc.

