hence this study recommends the screening of vaginal flora as a routine for all women especially in women undergoing infertility treatment and also suggests the importance of vaginal culture and sensitivity in routine practice.keywords high vaginal swab lactobacilli nugent's scoring systemintroductionthe vaginal ecosystem is highly complex normally colonized with mixed aerobic and anaerobic bacteria that play a major role in women's health 1-3. doderlein bacilli are non-spore forming gram- positive rods that are normal inhabitants of female genitourinary tract accounting for 95 and maintaining the vaginal ph 3.5-4.5 45. peptococcus spp.

stated the oestrogen level seems to be a determining factor for colonization of lactobacilli although thereis still no convincing data 10. the relationship between vaginal microbial flora menstruation and levels of oestrogen is complex 11. the composition of the vaginal ecosystem is not static exposure to any endogenous and exogenous influences such as antibiotics vaginal medications systemic hormones contraceptive preparations douches frequency of sexual intercourse vaginal deodorants stress levels and poor socio-economic status causes fluctuation in local environment and heighten or diminish specific vaginal microbes or alters the vf over a period of time 12. according to hay pe et al.

recent studies have shown most women with bv are usually asymptomatic and controversies exist as to the appropriate management of these women 41. schwebke jr and desmond r observed that many women with bv are asymptomatic and remain so for longer period of time 33 with no specific vaginal complaints or rarely present with malodorous discharge 23. moreover the misjudgment of vaginal complaints is rather high and the diagnosis of vaginal infections is not correctly used.

in addition knowledge regarding the fluctuations of the vaginal microbiota due to factors such as menstrual cycle concomitant infections other stress history of contraception and vaginal cleansing habits are required for analysing the significant shifts in the vaginal microbiota and also identification of the vf pattern is essential which helps in better interpretation 344556. patients and clinicians may incorrectly interpret the symptoms of vaginosis leading to self-medication or unnecessary prescription.

comparative study on the vaginal floradoi 10.7860jcdr201728296.10417and incidence of asymptomatic vaginosis among healthy women and in women with infertility problems of reproductive agegeethavani babu1 balamuru ganvelu singaravelu2 r srikumar3 sreenivasalu v reddy4 afraa kokan5abstractintroduction the normal vaginal flora is highly complex dominated by lactobacilli of doderlein that plays a vital role in maintaining the women's health and inhibits other pathogenic microorganisms.

the role of vaginal microbiome in infertility is not clear and need to be explored further.aim to compare the vaginal flora and analyse the incidence of asymptomatic vaginosis among healthy women and in women with infertility problems.materials and methods a cross-sectional study was conducted over a period of six months at sri lakshmi narayana medical college and hospital puducherry india.

are the other microbes that colonize the vagina 6. adams m stated that lactobacilli are protective organisms that inhibit the growth of pathogenic organisms by producing lactic acid and other metabolites 7. kirmani n found that lactobacilli are the dominant microflora of the vaginal ecosystem 8. the ovarian hormones play a vital role in maintaining the normal vaginal flora vf during the sexually mature period of a women's life 8. forsum u et al.

bv occurs when lactobacilli are replaced by overgrowth of few anaerobes or vaginal commensals or aerobic organisms predominantly enteric commensals 13. disruption in the normal vaginal ecosystem changes the microflora of the healthy vagina altering the ph and predisposing it to lower reproductive tract infections such as vaginitis 14. the changes in the microflora of the female genital tract by pathogenic organisms may ascend from vagina to upper genital tract and may cause infertility 15-17. bartlett jg et al.

found out in most postmenopausal women lactobacilli are replaced by uropathogens 18. slotnick ij in 1963 observed that doderlein's bacilli is accompanied by streptococci diptheroids and yeast which prevents the establishment of other possibly harmful microorganisms and constitutes a defense mechanism in the vagina 819. bv can be polymicrobial leading to a common outcome the area of controversy is mainly due to differences in the development of symptoms among individual women and several studies have concluded that it's very difficult to correlate vf and bv symptoms 20-23. several studies have concluded that clinical criteria cannot accurately predict specific vf alterations mainly due to differences in the development of signs or symptoms among individual women 21-23. approximately 30-35 of the women with problems of infertility are affected with post inflammatory changes of oviduct or surrounding peritoneum that interfere with tubo-ovarian function 2425 and salpingitis occurs in 15 of women in which 2.5 of women become infertile and all these results from altered vf 2526. the association between vaginal microbiome and in vitro fertilization outcome is also warranted which in turn affects pregnancy outcome 27. the role of vaginal microbiome in infertility is not clear although pathogens such as mycoplasma chlamydia trachomatis neisseria gonorrhoeae can cause infertility 27. hence the present study aimed to compare the vf and analyse the incidence of asymptomatic vaginosis among healthy women and in women with infertility problems.materials and methodsthis study was conducted at the department of microbiology sri lakshmi narayana medical college and hospital puducherry over a period of seven months from 1st june 2015 to 31st dec 2015.inclusion criteria all non-pregnant women of reproductive age group of 18-45 years were included.

two high vaginal swabs hvs were collected from each individual with a sterile swab stick from the posterior vaginal fornix and external orifice of uterine cervix after cleaning the vulva with sterile water.

fluctuation in local environment or exposure to any exogenous and endogenous sources changes the vaginal flora over a period of time.

disruption of the vaginal ecosystem changes the microflora of the healthy vagina altering the ph and predisposing to lower reproductive tract infections.

a total of 200 high vaginal swabs were collected from group 1 which included 84 healthy women with regular menstrual cycles without any gynaecological disorder and from group 2 116 women with infertility problems attending fertility clinic within the age groupof 18 to 45 years.

the smear was also graded using nugent scoring system.results the vaginal flora of group 1 was dominated bylactobacillus 40 27.8  followed by micrococcus 22 15.3 enterococcus 16 11.1 coagulase negative staphylococcus spp.

stated that at the onset of puberty changes in the vf especially growth of lactobacillus and streptococcus occurs due to the increase in glycogen content 6. the vaginal secretionhas pronounced bactericidal action and this remains during the fertile years and changes during menopause 612. pabich wl et al.

