gca glycocholic acid gdca glycodeoxycholic acid gcdca glycochenodeoxycholic acid glca glycolitocholic acid tca taurocholic acid tdca taurodeoxycholic acid tcdca taurochenodeoxycholic acid tlca taurolitocholic acid t-a- t-b-mca tauro-a- b-muricholic acid tudc tauroursodeoxycholic acid.

ca cholic acid dca deoxycholic acid cdca chenodeoxycholic acid lca litocholic acid mca muricholic acid a- b- o-mca a- b- o-muricholic acid udca ursodeoxycholic acid hdca hyodeoxycholic acid.

c and hf were fed a control and high-fat diet respectively hfsg and hfng were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground seedless fraction of raspberry pomace respectively hfsgs and hfngs were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground native raspberry pomace respectively.table 6bile acids in the cecal digesta and liver and the concentration of cholesterol and indicators that regulate the synthesis of bile acids in the liver of rats fed the experimental dietsvalues are the means - sem.

there were no significant differences in the cecal activity of selectedc0.00-0.000.00-0.000.00-0.00hf0.00-0.000.00-0.000.00-0.00hfsg19.50-35.43 8.72-5.630.07a-0.02hfng29.13-41.47 8.77-4.710.08a-0.02hfsgs19.19-10.75 6.69-3.150.03b-0.01hfngs7.55-12.532.26-6.400.03b-0.01 p anovansnsb0.01c and hf were fed a control and high-fat diet respectively hfsg and hfng were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground seedless fraction of raspberry pomace respectively hfsgs and hfngs were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground native raspberry pomace respectively.microbial enzymes or the concentration of scfas between the hf and c group.

fgf19 fibroblast growth factor 19 fgfr4 fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 fxr farnesoid x receptor ns nonsignificant data pn.05 ppara peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha shp-1 small heterodimer partner 1.c and hf were fed a control and high-fat diet respectively hfsg and hfng were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground seedless fraction of raspberry pomace respectively hfsgs and hfngs were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground native raspberry pomace respectively.the total ba concentration in the cecal digesta was comparable among all groups .

ns nonsignificant data pn.05.c and hf were fed a control and high-fat diet respectively hfsg and hfng were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground seedless fraction of raspberry pomace respectively hfsgs and hfngs were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground native raspberry pomace respectively.22-23 min 95-50 vv b 23-40 min 50 vv b. the injection volume was 5 ml.

a-gal a- galactosidase a-glu a-glucosidase b-gal b-galactosidase b-glu b-glucosidase ns nonsignificant data pn.05 scfas short chain fatty acids.c and hf were fed a control and high-fat diet respectively hfsg and hfng were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground seedless fraction of raspberry pomace respectively hfsgs and hfngs were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and fine ground native raspberry pomace respectively.fig.

c and hf were fed a control and high-fat diet respectively hfsg and hfng were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground seedless fraction of raspberry pomace respectively hfsgs and hfngs were fed a high-fat diet containing 7 standard and finely ground native raspberry pomace respectively.rat caecum .

among the groups fed high-fat diets the hfngs rats were characterized by the lowest liver cholesterol concentration pb.05 vs. all other groups fed high-fat diets.

all of the animals fed high-fat diets displayed a significant increase in fat accumulation in the liver pb.05 vs. c. the control high-fat diet group hf had the highest cecal ammonia concentration but treatment with hfsg and hfngs reduced these values to levels similar to those in the c group .

interestingly both finely ground raspberry pomaces significantly increased the concentration of acetic acid in the cecal digesta pb.05 vs. c. irrespective of the grind type the preparation of seedless raspberry pomace significantly increased the blood serum concentration of ellagic acid dimethyl ether glucuronide dmeag .the effect of the dietary raspberry pomaces on the ba profile in thececal digesta is shown in .

wistar rats were fed the standard diet ain-93 a high-fat diet or a modified high-fat diet enriched with 7 different types of processed raspberry pomaces produced by standard grinding and fine grinding with or without seeds.

nevertheless addition of finely ground raspberry pomaces containing seeds to the high-fat diet reduced the cecal ammonia concentration and improved the metabolism of ba in the caecum by decreasing the concentration of secondary ba dca and lca.

the fine grinding of dietary raspberry pomace with seeds group hfngs resulted in a significant reduction of litocholic lca and o-muricholic acid o- mca concentrations in the cecal digesta pb.05 vs. all groups including c. in the case of the fine grinding of seedless raspberry pomace such manipulation significantly reduced the cecal concen- tration of mca pb.05 vs. all other groups fed high-fat diets.

rats fed the high-fat diet for 8 weeks showed some disorders in liver function and cecal ba as manifested by an increased concentration of cholesterol total ba in the liver and cholic deoxycholic and b-muricholic acids in the cecal digesta.

