although the contri- bution of soil type to the total variation of the rhizosphere bac- terial community composition within plant growth stages was significant p  0.001 bca showed that this contribution given by the percentage of inertia explained a smaller proportion of the community structure on day 50 15.63. interestingly the cultivar effect became a significant p  0.001 contributortable 1. inertia co-variance between the factors soil type plant growth stage and cultivar with the rhizosphere bacterial community.schlemper et al.5table 3. bca testing the effect of the factors soil and cultivar within each plant growth stage.rhizosphere cf versus rhizosphere vd soilmfa at the family level revealed that the cluster evidenced by explaining the variance in the rhizosphere bacterial community composition only at day 50 explaining 21.89 of the total varia- tion.

this study is the first to simultaneously investigate the contributions of plant genotype plant growth stage and soil type in shaping sorghum rhizosphere bacterial community composition.keywords sorghum genotypes rhizosphere bacterial community composition 16s rrna next-generation sequencing strigolactonereceived 20 april 2017 accepted 20 july 2017qc fems 2017. all rights reserved.

this analysis allowed us to iden- tify the relative contribution of each factor in explaining the total variability of the microbial community structure.to infer how the rhizosphere bacterial community covar- ied with the factors soil cultivar and plant growth stage the hellinger-transformed data were used and the co-variance was measured by the rv coefficient by multiple factor analysis mfa using the package 'factominer' le josse and husson  in r version 3.1.3. to evaluate the effect of the factors soil and cultivar on sorghum rhizosphere bacterial communities in each plant growth stage two different tests were performed.

when the factors were ex- amined simultaneously both statistical analyses indicated that the factor soil strongly determined the rhizosphere bacterial community composition followed by plant growth stage and cultivar.the variations of soil type and cultivar and their interaction as drivers of rhizosphere bacterial composition over different plant growth stages were examined by two-way permanova.

the rhizosphere bacterial community was evaluated at four different plant growth stages emergence of the second day 10 and third leaves day 20 the transition between the vegetative and reproductive stages day 35 and the emergence of the last visible leaf day 50. at early stages days 10 and 20 the sorghum rhizosphere bacterial community composition was mainly driven by soil type whereas at late stages days 35 and 50 the bacterial community composition was also affected by the sorghum genotype.

in the rhizosphere compared with bulk soil.among the bacterial groups with significant dissimilarity across plant growth stages members of proteobacteria and bac- teroidetes showed the highest abundance in the earlier stages of plant growth whereas members of acidobacteria and verru- comicrobia showed the highest abundance during the last stage of plant growth.

culture-dependent and dgge are rather low resolution com- pared with the next-generation sequencing approach applied in this study.in addition although soil was the major contributor driving bacterial community composition in the sorghum rhizosphere at all evaluated stages of growth an effect of plant genotype on the composition of the rhizosphere bacterial community was observed only after day 35. similar results were reported by inceoglu et al.

therefore the rhizosphere plant microbiome should be an important component of plant breeding programs.directed selection of plant genotypes that enhance popula- tions of beneficial rhizobacteria may confer protection against pathogens mazzola funnell and raaijmakers  mendes et al.

suggested that a stable core microbiome over plant growth stages could be re- lated to a similar pattern of plant exudates over time whereas dynamic core microbiome members may respond to changes in root exudates over plant development.cultivar had little effect on sorghum rhizosphere bacte- rial community composition.

and the effect of soil type plant genotype and plant growth stages on the rhizosphere bacterial communities of soy- bean xu et al.

and no study has simultaneously inves- tigated the contributions of plant genotype plant growth stage and soil type in shaping sorghum rhizosphere bacterial commu- nity composition.

this analysis aided the identification of the main driver of microbial community structure at each stage of plant growth.the variation of the rhizosphere bacterial community was evaluated together with soil type plant growth stage and culti- var in a global principal component analysis gpca after nor- malization by mfa which consisted of the ordination of each group of variables and posterior transformation by the first eigenvector.

simultane- ous evaluation of the three factors revealed that soil type was the main driver of sorghum rhizosphere bacterial community composition with a co-variance of 68.30 followed by plant growth stage and plant cultivar which contributed co-variances of 14.18 and 9.69 respectively.

tel 31 317473502 e-mail one sentence summary this study demonstrated that soil acts as the main factor driving the sorghum rhizosphere bacterial community composition followed by plant growth stages and genotype.editor angela sessitschabstractplant genotype selects the rhizosphere microbiome.

in the treatments with vd soil the distinction between the bulk soil and rhizosphere clusters evidenced by dim 1 and dim 2 was related to differences in the abundances of bradyrhi- zobiaceae burkholderiaceae oxalobacteraceae sphingomonadaceae xanthomonadaceae planctomycetaceae and unclassified groups at the family level belonging to acidobacteria subdivisions gp1 gp4 gp6 gp16 betaproteobacteria burkholderiales rhizobiales and spartobacteria table s5 supporting information.munitya clear cluster distinction was observed for both soils by anal- ysis of the symmetric variation of the rhizosphere bacterial community over time using plant growth stage as the ac- tive factor mfa.

