Because the expression of SHM2 and ADE3 genes in the bas1D strain wasFIG 5 The expression of one-carbon metabolic genes and the expression of nucleoside permease are differentially regulated by Bas1 and Grf10.

The Candida genome database incorporates multiple Candida species multispecies search and analysis tools with curated gene and protein information for Can- dida albicans and Candida glabrata.

Bas1 appears to play an important role in main- taining basal expression because the expression of several of the genes ADE4 ADE6 and ADE13 was reduced by 2-fold or more in the bas1D strain relative to the WT under repressing Ade conditions however basal expression of the ADE genes was not affected in the grf10D mutant.

The adenine auxotrophy shown in was strongest when cells received more nutrients with growth in SC medium than when we used SDFIG 2 The bas1D and grf10D mutants exhibit leaky adenine auxotrophy.

To characterize the global Grf10 target genes under yeast growth conditions we performed DNA microarray analysis and determined differential gene expression in the grf10D RAC117 mutant versus aFIG 1 The purine salvage AMP de novo biosynthesis and one-carbon metabolic pathways of C. albicans.

The potential Grf10 targets were defined as those genes out of 7860 potential loci in which expression was altered 2-fold or greater with a P value of 1 X 10-5 or lower.

The uncharacterized gene PRE1 which encodes the putative 34 subunit of the 20S protea- some showed the greatest decrease in gene expression 40-fold change  Table S2 ubiquitination and protein degradation have been implicated in metabolic adaptation and virulence .

The CFL4 and CFL5 genes exhibit 3- to 4-fold lower expression these genes encode putative ferric reductases that may play a crucial role in iron homeostasis and virulence in C. albicans  .

Expression of ADE13 was partially or fully restored when BAS1 RAC111 or GRF10 RAC120 respectively wasFIG 4 The expression of the ADE regulon is strongly downregulated in the bas1D and grf10D mutants.

The modulation of ADE gene expression by these transcription factors could potentially promote the survival of C. albicans in response to purine fluctuation in different sites on the human host.

