.overall we determined that the faecal microbiota of animals exhibited distinct alterations in the bacterial composition following the treatment with bacteriophages.discussionthe aims of the present study were to determine 1 whether bacteriophages could induce alterations of the gut flora leading to gut leakiness and an impaired intestinal barrier and 2 whether bacteriophage treatment could increase gut permeability in mammals sufficient to facilitate endotoxemia and inflammatory responses.our knowledge of the particular role of intestinal permeability has greatly increased over the last years .

our results also showed significantly elevated levels of blood serum endotoxin tnf-a il-1b and il-6 compared to those in the pre-treatment period.consistent with other studies which indicated that the alteration of gut microbiota by antibiotics might lead to impaired gut permeability we showed for the first time that bacteriophages could induce inflammation most likely through an increase in the circulating endotoxin level which is likely to be a result of an altered intestinal microbiota and increased intestinal permeability.

received 4 may 2017accepted 23 june 2017openbacteriophages as potential new mammalian pathogensgeorge v. tetz 1 kelly v. ruggles23 hua zhou3 adriana heguy456 aristotelis tsirigos345  victor tetz1increased intestinal permeability and translocation of gut bacteria trigger various polyaetiologicaldiseases associated with chronic inflammation and underlie a variety of poorly treatable pathologies.published online 1 august 2017previous studies have established a primary role of the microbiota composition and intestinal permeability in such pathologies.

we have previously reported that the challenge with bac- teriophages is associated with altered intestinal permeability however some questions remained unanswered in particular how microbial composition of the gut microbiota changes and whether it correlates with the increased intestinal permeability and endotoxemia.

to investigate whether bacteriophages can cause a shift in microbiota leading to increased gut permeability we used a rat model to measure markers of intestinal permeability and endotoxemia.

the term 'other' refers to the genera with the minimum abundance of 0.5.in the gut microbiota which is an important regulator of intestinal homeostasis have been proposed to play a pri- mary role in the impaired gut permeability and deleterious immune activation.

thus the impaired gut permeability can only be a consequence of altered microbiota .we found an increased lactulosemannitol ratio compared with that at baseline which was determined prior to administration of the bacteriophages indicating increased intestinal permeability following oral administra- tion of bacteriophages.

using a rat model we examined the effects of exposure to a bacteriophage cocktail on intestinal permeability and relative abundance of taxonomic units in the gut bacterial community.

there was an increase in markers of impaired gut permeability such as the lactulosemannitol ratio plasma endotoxin concentrations and serum levels of inflammation- related cytokines following the bacteriophage challenge.

this information can provide a basis for the crucial next step in the evaluation of bacteriophage implications in poorly treatable human diseases.resultsbacteriophages increase gut permeability and mediate endotoxemia.

we examined gut permeability function in animals before and 10 days after the daily challenge with a bacteriophage cocktail using each animal as its own control.all animals survived the entire duration of the experiment with no clinical changes in the gastrointestinal tract or stool alteration.

the animals showed higher gut permeability following the bacteriophage challenge with an average post-treatment lactulosemannitol ratio of 0.99 - 0.08 compared with that of 0.31 - 0.05 pre-bacteriophage treat- ment p  0.05 fig.

to understand the nature of impaired gut permeability in response to bacteriophage exposure faecal material was collected from the same animals before and after the phage challenge.

each animal was used as its own control before the bacteriophage challenge.measurement of gut permeability in vivo.

the primary causes of chronic inflammation in the gut are activation of immunoreactive submucosa and endotoxemia resulting from the impaired gut barrier function.

