environmental microbiology 2017 198 3087-3097doi10.11111462-2920.13780seasonal variation in the copepod gut microbiome in the subtropical north atlantic oceankatyanne m. shoemaker and pia h. moisander department of biology university of massachusetts dartmouth 285 old westport road north dartmouth ma 02747 usa.summarycharacterisation of marine copepod gut microbiome composition and its variability provides information on function of marine food webs biogeochemical cycles and copepod health.

2009. if bacteria associate with copepod food seasonal shifts in copepod diet could also correspond with changes in the copepod gut bacterial microbiome.variability in food sources may influence not only the passing but also the more stable gut bacteria tang et al.

persistent bacterial groups belonging to firmicutes bacteroi- detes and actinobacteria were present in the copepod guts throughout the year and showed syn- chronous changes suggesting a link to variability in copepod nutritional content.

2009. studying seasonal changes in the copepod gut microbiome could reveal stable representatives important for copepod health.

the key objective was to identify transient and more permanent members of the copepod gut microbiome and to start identifying and examining potential variability of bacterial components originating both from copepod food and other sources.

due to the high abundance of copepods in the marine environment the bacterial community com- position and activity in the copepod gut could have a significant impact on food webs and biogeochemical cycling of elements in the marine environment.resultsthe study resulted in bacterial community data based on the 16s rrna v3-v4 region for 42 copepod gut and 7 sea- water samples fig.

can only be specu- lated bernard and funke 2012.unlike the core members found in the copepod gut throughout the year 16s rrna sequences indicated that there was only periodically a very high proportion up to 65 of synechococcus or related picocyanobacteria in the copepod gut microbiome this was seen particularly in may and december samples.

2007.discussionprevious studies on copepod associated bacteria from both coastal and open ocean waters have primarily focused on characterisation of the copepod exoskeleton or entire animal huq et al.

if the gut pas- sage provides a benefit for the bacteria or copepod the association could be symbiotic for example the bacterial symbiont could provide metabolisms responsible for main- taining the health of the animal as seen in gut symbioses in many animals engel and moran 2013. in addition parasiticpathogenic characteristics of some copepod- associated bacteria have been predicted based on cope- pod immune responses almada and tarrant 2016 such associations could also be found in the copepod gut micro- biome.

the differences between the gut and the surrounding seawater could indicate that conditions are present inside of the animal that promote growth of these specific bacterial groups or could originate from consistent bacterial load in the copepod prey particles.the detection of bacterial groups in this study cannot speak to their relative activities however the presence of certain groups year-round in the gut samples indicates they are an important part of the copepod gut microbiome.

one of the most notable differences between the gut community and previous studies is the lower relative abundance of gammaproteobacteria in the copepod gut compared to the whole copepod.

firmicutes can be cultivated from the copepod fecal pellets hansen and bech 1996 supporting their presence in copepod guts.

coprophagy is likely one of the means of transport of these bacteria between individuals paffenhoeurffer and knowles 1979 but it is possible parts of the core gut microbiome are estab- lished via horizontal transmission at the time of egg production and kept within the copepod for life mcfall- ngai 2002.bacteroidetes and actinobacteria also appear to form permanent or semi-permanent attachments in the copepod gut.

although present year-round in all copepod gut sam- ples abundances of bacteroidetes versus firmicutes had opposing temporal trends in copepod guts coinciding with timing of deep convective overturn events in the nasg.

by observing the well- studied and abundant prochlorococcus ecotypes in cope- pod guts information may be gained about copepod grazing strategies throughout the water column.it is currently unknown what bacterial biomass is retained in a voided copepod gut what portion of ingested bacteria is digested and what portion is lost to the sur- rounding seawater.

