disruption of or defects in epithelial integrity may influence microbial colonization and allow free passage of microorganisms or other substances across the epithelial barrier where they stimulate the immune system and contribute to inflam- mation autoimmunity allergy and even carcinogenesis 24-29. the barrier function of intestinal epithelial cells iecs is maintained by several strictly regulated cell processes including cell proliferation in the crypt ab- sorptive or secretory cell differentiation and migration and cell shedding from the tip of the villus 30-32. mi- croflorain the lumen andthe mucosal immune systemalso contribute significantly to the maintenance of an intact epithelial barrier.

after passing through a 150-mm cell strainer epithelial cells in the supernatant were enriched by centrifugation at 1600 rpm for 5 min at 4degc.isolation of colonic lamina propria cellsisolation of colonic lamina propria and epithelial cells was per- formed as previously described with slight modifications 36. after colonic epithelial cell enrichment colon pieces were thor- oughly washed with ca2mg2-free hbss then digested twice in 0.5 mgml collagenase iv roche diagnostics and 0.2 mgml dnase-containing medium with 5 fetal bovine serum in rpmi 1640 at 200 rpm for 20 min at 37degc.

1c-g and tables 1 and 2.consistent with the reduced proliferation and migra-tion of colonic epithelial cells in hu mice the transcription of a set of genes that promote epithelial cell differentiation proliferation migration and maturation were down- regulated and genes that negatively regulate epithelial cell proliferation were up-regulated fig.

5e f. these data suggest that the colonic epithelial cell changes that resulted from hu are associated with mildly increased suscepti- bility to dss-induced colitis.dysbiosis contributes to colonic epithelial changes in hu miceto investigate whether colonic epithelial changes in hu mice are associated with dysbiosis ground-based ctrl mice were cohoused with hu mice for 4 wk.

although these epithelial changes in hu mice under steady-state condition may not be severe enough to significantly alter the permeability the de- creased epithelial defense response capabilities andhindlimb unloading affects intestinal homeostasis3705figure 6. dysbiosis contributes to epithelial changes in hu mice.

because intestinal epithelial changes microbiota alteration and even gastroenteritis were re- ported during spaceflight 33 we investigated whether the microgravity analog the hu mouse model has similar epithelial and microbiota changes.

fitc-dextran concentrations were determined from standard curves that were generated by diluting fitc-dextran in nontreated sera diluted with pbs 13 vv.tunel stainingto determine apoptotic epithelial cells tunel staining was conducted with a tunel-pod kit according to manufacturer instructions roche diagnostics basel switzerland.5-bromodeoxyuridine incorporation assayto assess the proliferation and migration of intestinal epithelial cells hu and ctrl mice were administered 5-bromodeoxyuridine brdu 50 mgkg body weight i.p.

we measured at least 15 crypts of each mouse to represent the migration distance.enrichment of colonic epithelial cellsenrichment of colonic epithelial cells was performed as pre- viously described with slight modifications 35. after washing off fecal contents and mucus mouse colons were cut into 1.5-cm-long pieces and incubated twice in ca2mg2-free hbss that con- tained 1 mm dtt and 5 mm edta with 5 serum in an orbital shaker at 250 rpm for 20 min at 37degc.

together these data demonstrate that hu alters the composition and structure of the intestinal microbial community.altered colonic epithelial cell homeostasis in hu micewe next investigated whether intestinal epithelial integrity and barrier function were altered in hu mice.

2d e.increased susceptibility of hu mice to dss-induced colitisalthough hu did not significantly increase colonic per- meability and activate the mucosal immune system in general we asked whether the observed colonic epithelial changes enhanced susceptibility to dss-induced epithelial injury.

this indicates that altered microbiota contributes to colonic epithelial alterations in hu mice.to determine whether the epithelial cell changes in hu mice could be alleviated by microbial transplantation hu mice underwent transplantation with feces from ground- based ctrl mice every other day for 4 wk fig.

these epithelial changes in hu mice were at least in part a result of alterations in colonic microbiota and can be alleviated by transplantation of feces from ground-based ctrl mice.the barrier function of the intestinal epithelial cells is finely regulated by their turnover.

the colonic goblet cells a b colonic epithelial cell apoptosis c  and epithelial gene expression d were compared among different groups.

31 august 2017the faseb journal x shi et al.reduced epithelial cell turnover may alter microflora composition allow prolonged pathogen adherence to the intestinal mucosa 52 and increase sensitivity to dss-induced epithelial injury.

these epithelial changes may also explain the reduced survival of hu mice with s. typhimurium infection 8. the altered inflammatory re- sponse and decreased antigen presentation in epithelium may further influence the immune system and exacer- bate experimental colitis 53.intestinal microbiota is essential in regulating epithe- lium integrity immune system maturation and energy metabolism 54 55. in particular the proliferation differ- entiation and survival of iecs can be affected by com- mensal bacteria 56-58. for example many type iii secretion system effectors from shigella salmonella and enteropathogenic e. coli have been shown to promote epi- thelial cell survival suppress death receptor-mediated in- flammation and improve the attachment of bacteria to the epithelial surface 59-61. other type iii secretion system effectors such as espz and ospe stabilize focal adhesions and prevent exfoliation of infected cells into the gut lumen 60 62. here we observed an altered composition of fecal microbiota in hu mice with an increase in fir- micutes at the phylum level.

