The findings of the present study suggest that potential antago- nism probably exists between Streptococcus and other bac- terial communities and Streptococcus might impact the rel- ative abundances of other microbes.Together the results of this study exploring the characteri-stics of human-associated bacterial communities in the pha- rynx showed inverse correlations in the relative abundance between Streptococcus and other bacterial communities.Microbial communities in the pharynx 653AcknowledgementsThis work received financial support from National Natural Science Foundation of China No.

86-21-6437-7134-290 Fax 86-21-64377151SSSupplemental material for this article may be found at Copyright c 2017 The Microbiological Society of KoreaKeywords microbiota bacterial communities pharynx la- ryngeal cancer vocal cord polypsIntroductionThe human body houses large numbers of symbiotic species and each person is an assemblage of human cells and micro- bial communities Peterson et al.

Bacterial communities build a micro- environment on the surface of epithelial cells with strong synergism however the understanding of the structure and prevalence of microbiota in the pharynx is insufficient to date.In this study we sought to characterize the profiles of thebacterial communities in the pharynx.

No dif-Microbial communities in the pharynx 651ference in microbial structure was found by the PCoA an- alysis P  0.42 and no diversity of communities of the rela- tive abundance between these two groups was observed by metastats and FDR P  0.05.

Inverse correlations in the relative abundances of bacterial communities were detected in the pharynx.The characteristics of bacterial communities in the pharynx were different from those at its adjacent sites.

Overall the major phylum was Firmicutes with Streptococcus as the predominant genus in the pharyngeal communities.

However there was no dif- ference in bacterial communities in the pharynx from patients with laryngeal cancer and vocal cord polyps.

Inverse cor- relations were found between Streptococcus and other bac- terial communities suggesting that potential antagonism may exist among pharyngeal microbiota.These authors contributed equally to this workFor correspondence.

An accumulating number of studies have reported the bacterial community profiles in the oral cavity and nu- merous communities play critical roles in the maintenance of a normal oral physiological niche or in the development of oral diseases Koren et al.

This organ is constantly exposed to both nasally inhaled and orally ingested microbial communities Abreu et al.

