from these results we conclude that opsonization of c. difficile spores with anti-spore igy does not affect spore viability.igy-opsonized c. difficile spores exhibit reduced adherence to intestinal epithelial cellswe evaluated if opsonization of c. difficile spores with anti- spore igy affects spore adherence to epithelial cells.

as expected a significant immunoreactivity of anti-spore igy was observed against c. difficile spores figure 3a by contrast no significant immunoreactivity was evidenced against vegetative cells indicating the absence of cross-reactivity of anti- spore igy with conformational antigens of vegetative cells.recent studies demonstrate that c. difficile forms spores with two different morphotypes of the outermost exosporium layer in the same sporulating culture i spores with a thin- exosporium layer and ii spores with a thick exosporium layer pizarro-guajardo et al.

consequently the opsonization of c. difficile spores with spore-specific antibodies may be conceived as a possible strategy to reduce c. difficile spore-host interactions and c. difficile spore-load in the host.chicken igy has several advantages over other immunoglobulins for the development of passive immunotherapy i current regulations of the federal drug administration fda classifies the oral consumption of igy as generally recognized as safe gras facilitating the regulations for human consumption of pathogen-specific igy rahman et al.

these results indicate that acidic purification of full- length igy did not affect anti-spore igy titers against c. difficile spores.saturation and level of binding of anti-spore igy to c. difficile sporesnearly 2-10 of igy has been reported to be antigen specific kovacs-nolan and mine 2004. therefore to gain more information on the anti-spore igy we determined the percentage of igy specific to c. difficile spores to optimize downstream therapeutic development.

collectively these observations suggest that despite the ultrastructural differences reported in r20291 spores anti- spore igy binds to both morphotypes with a normal distribution.opsonization of c. difficile spores with anti-spore igy does not affect germinationnext we evaluated whether opsonization of c. difficile spores would affect their germination ability when incubated at saturated concentrations of igy.

2013. therefore given that c. difficile spores play an important role in the initiation and persistence of the infection the goal of this study was to evaluate i whether igy could be specifically raised against c. difficile spores and ii oral administration of anti-spore igy during initiation and recurrence of cdi.

unfortunately in this work we did not evaluate the dynamics of removal of c. difficile spores from colonic tissue during igy-vancomycin nor the compositionstructure of the microbiota which could have provided a deeper insight on the effects of oral administration of specific igy.in summary in this work we demonstrate that highly specific chicken igy antibodies can be raised against c. difficile spores with minimal cross-reactivity with bacterial cells of the murine microbiota.

spores were harvested with ice-cold sterile distilled water and purified with 50 nicodenzas previously described sorg and sonenshein 2008. spore suspensions were purified until they were 99 free of vegetative cells sporulating cells and cell debris as determined by phase contrast microscopy and the concentration was quantified with a neubauer chamber sigma-aldrich u.s.a. prior to use.chicken immunization protocolchicken immunoglobulins igy specific for c. difficile spores from the epidemic strain r20291 were produced as described by the manufacturer aveslabs or u.s.a.. briefly 5 x 109 r20291 spores were fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde for 16 h at 4c rinsed with pbs and aliquots of 500 ul pbs containing2.5 x 108 spores were stored at -20c until use.

western blot analysis with pre-immunized igy revealed absence of immunoreactive protein species in extracts of c. difficile spores and bacterial cells of microbiota from c. difficile infected and non-infected mice figure 5a.

based on these results we speculated that oral administration of anti-spore igy should be specific against c. difficile spores with a minimal impact against murine gut microbiota.oral administration of 600 ug of anti-spore igy prior to c. difficile spore infection prevents disease initiation and reducedc.

collectively these results suggest that rapid outgrowth of c. difficile occurs after vancomycinigy treatment leading to recolonization and toxin production in the cecum.no igg response to igy and c. difficile spores was observed in the mice during the course of cdi in initiation and recurrence modelwe also analyzed whether igg against the administered igy as treatment were raised.

to assess the reactivity of serum igg against c. difficile spores and igy from treatment elisa assay was performed in wells incubated with r20291 spores 1.6x 107 spores or igy 100 ugml respectively.

recently several studies have highlighted that during sporulation c. difficile forms spores with two different exosporium morphotypes i spores with an exosporium layer which is thin in the amount of electron- dense material that surrounds the spore coat and ii spores with an exosporium layer thick in electron-dense material surrounding the spore coat pizarro-guajardo et al.

difficile spore shedding h cecum content cytotoxicity i c. difficile spores in colonic tissue.

collectively these results indicate that i anti-spore igy of batch 7245 not only detects immunoreactive proteins of spore extracts but also cross- reacts with proteins of cell lysates and therefore we reasoned that this batch is unsuitable for further experimentationii anti-spore igy of batch 7246 uniquely recognizes spore-specific antigens and therefore was used for further experimentation.characterization of the variability of binding of anti-spore igy to c. difficile sporesto further evaluate the specificity of anti-spore igy of batch 7246 we performed an elisa to test whether anti-spore igy cross- reacted against conformational antigens of c. difficile vegetative cells.

