In addition aberrant organisms contained 2 masses of rudimentary organelles as residuum of sporocysts Figure C. However normal and aberrant organisms both had an equal number of 8 banana-shape-sporozoites.

Effects of low doses of aberrant and normal organisms in juvenile immunodeficient or immune-intact Rhode Island Red animals.57 - 5.733450 N87 - 7.2 b043450 A106 - 7053-N 450 N95 - 1.450 - 163-N 0190 - 80Cyclophosphamide CY immunodeficient  or immune-intact   chicks were inoculated with a low dose of 300 2 weeks old or 450 3 weeks old normal or aberrant organisms.

Hypothesis induced aberrant organisms possess distinct ultrastructure and are tolerated by immunodeficient-animals yet are non-pathogenic but immunogenic in various strains of chicks to act as a preventive vaccine and eliminating the needs for antibiotic additives.

Methods cyclophosphamide-immunodeficient and immune-intact-chicks were inoculated with induced aberrant or normal Coccidal-organisms.

Immune-intact-animals immunized with aberrant forms were protected against high dose normal-pathogenic-challenge infection and gained more weight compared to those immunized with normal-organisms p  0.05.

Conclusions Aberrant organisms possess a distinct ultrastructure and are tolerated in immunodeficient-chicks yet provide novel immune-protection against pathogenic challenges including diarrhea malnutrition and weight loss in immune-intact-animals to warrant further investigations toward vaccine production.Keywords infection gut inflammation immunosuppression poultry coccidiosis aberrant organismsIntroductionRobust and balanced gut microbiota are required to support health and growth.

By utilizing purification procedures aberrant forms of different Eimerias were induced which matured to contain 8-free-sporozoites with no protective sporocyst walls as were confirmed by light microscopy .

The aberrant organisms proved to be less pathogenic than the normal form in inbred Leghorn-chicks but similarly immunogenic.

The hypothesis of this investigation was induced aberrant organisms possess a distinct ultrastructure and are tolerated by immunodeficient-animals yet are non-pathogenic but immunogenic in various strains of chicks to act as preventive vaccine and eliminating the need for antibiotic additives.

In addition immunogenicity of these aberrant forms is examined and compared to normal organisms utilizing two diverse inbred chicks Rhode Island Red and New Hampshire strains.Materials and MethodsEthical Guidelines for the Use of AnimalsThis investigation was conducted according to the guidelines of the National Institute of Health and the International and the American Pain Associations.

