We compared the antibiotic susceptibility between the relapse and reinfection strains first isolate and observed no dif- ferences between the two groups.Because relapse infection is a concern for clinicians we sought to identify the risk factors for relapse CDI by univariate analysis.

Patients with relapse had previous antibiotic exposure more frequently than did patients with reinfection p 14 0.03 and patients with reinfection suffered more frequently from chronic liver disease p 14 0.02 than did relapse patients.

Despite these limitations we performed an exhaustive analysis of epidemiological clinical and microbiological factors between recurrent and non-recurrent CDI as well as between relapse and reinfection.In conclusion our study detected a moderate rate of recurrence of CDI compared to other studies mainly due to relapse 23 of them.

edifficile including epidemiologyClinical epidemiological and microbiological characteristics of relapse and re-infection in Clostridium difficile infectionSara Gomez Fernando Chaves M. Angeles OrellanaServicio de Microbiologia Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre Avenida de Cordoba sn 28041 Madrid Spaina r t i c l e i n f o Article historyReceived 12 December 2016 Received in revised form20 July 2017Accepted 18 August 2017Available online 19 August 2017 Handling Editor Stuart JohnsonKeywordsRecurrent Clostridium difficile infection Relapse Clostridium difficile Reinfection Clostridium difficile Sporulation frequencyGermination frequencya b s t r a c t Recurrent diarrhea is a common complication of Clostridium difficile infection CDI.

Recurrent CDI r-CDI may be produced by the persistence of spores relapse or by the acquisition of a new strain reinfection.

In this study we analyze epidemiological clinical microbiological and laboratory data from patients with r-CDI relapse and reinfection-CDI over 5 years and compared with a control group non r-CDI.

Based on ribotyping 63.9 of the samples were relapse and 36.1 reinfection.

Nevertheless there were statistically not significant differences between the relapse and reinfection groups.

Both frequencies were compared between the first and second episode of CDI for the relapse and reinfection groups but differences were not observed to be statistically significant.

In conclusion our study showed that the recurrence of CDI was associated with antibiotic use and sporulationgermination frequency regardless of relapse or reinfection.

