however we introduced negative controls in every experimental protocol and used negative control probes routinely used for the col- lection of gastric juice in newborns in order to ensure that thecollection of the gastric juice was not prone to contamination the fact that all the negative controls remained negative au- thenticates the results we report.all the newborn gastric juice specimens investigated here yielded m. smithii-specific sequences.

ten negative control specimens consisted of ten sterile probes routinely used for gastric juice collection covidien medtronic france boulogne-billancourt france flushed with sterile phosphate buffered saline pbs and analysed in parallel with the gastric juice specimens.

a p- value  0.05 was regarded as significant.resultsthe ph of the gastric juice specimens varied between ph 6 and ph 7. pcr investigations were negative in negative con- trols both in the pbs itself and in flushed probes and positive in 5050 100 gastric juice specimens collected in new- borns aged one or two days.

in order to gain insight into this we developed a polyphasic approach including microscopic observation by fluorescence in situ hybridisation polymerase chain reaction pcr se- quencing detection identification and culture to isolate and genotype m. smithii in one-day-old newborns' gastric juice specimens.

in the presence of negative controls 5050 100 prospectively analysed newborn gastric juice speci- mens were pcr-positive for methanogens all identified asm.

smithii in 3550 70 newborn gastric juice specimens while 1550 specimens remained sterile.

methanobrevibacter smithii is an early inhabitant of the human stomach colonising the gastric mucosa just after birth and the mother's gut microbiota is a probable source of colonisation.introductionmethanobrevibacter smithii is the main methanogen of the human gut detected with a prevalence of 95.7 in adult stools followed by methanosphaera stadtmanae which is detected with a prevalence of 29.4 .

indeed a few studies have suggested that colonisation by methanogens is established at approximately two years of age  -.in this prospective study we questioned whether the newborn stomach is colonised by methanogens using a polyphasic approach.materials and methodsclinical samplesfifty gastric samples were prospectively collected in 50 one- day-old newborns for the evaluation of bacterial pathogens at timone hospital marseille france.

after routine microbiological investigations were run a left- over aliquot of the gastric juice specimen was used for ph measurement using ph-meter calibration fisher scientific illkich france and the search for methanogens as described below.

all pcr products were se- quenced and the different fragments were assembled using chromaspro software and compared to sequences available in the genbank database january 2017 using the online blast program of the ncbi.isolation and culturea volume of 250 ml of newborn gastric juice previously di- luted in pbs was seeded in ambient air in a sterile hungate tube   dominique dutscher brumath france.

tubes inoculated with sterile pbs were used as negative control tubes one negative control for every five tubes in archaea isolation experiments and culture dishes containing the sab medium inoculated with sterile pbs were used as negative control dishes in sub-culture ex- periments one negative control for every five dishes.multispacer sequence typingin order to genotype m. smithii colonies isolated from new- born gastric juice specimens five colonies per specimen were analysed using a multispacer sequence typing mst tech- nique as previously described .

pcrs were carried out in a ptc-200 automated thermal cycler mj research and followed all the steps described for standard pcr used for the molecular analysis of gastric juice specimens.

mst genotypes were defined as a unique combination of the four spacer sequences.fluorescence in situ hybridisationof 50 gastric juice specimens investigated in this study only eight specimens had sufficient volume to be investigated by fluorescence in situ hybridisation fish.

in brief 400 ml of the gastric juice specimen were taken and washed twice with pbs.

chromatography analysis of the atmosphere of hungate tubes inoculated with the 50 specimens revealed the production of methane in 3550 70 gastric juice specimens while 15 specimens remained negative for methane production after a 7-day inoculation.

