for these volunteers the percentage of the bacterial population made up of the genus bacteroides ranged from 46.09 to 65.50. another five hangzhou volunteers and one beijing volunteer had a higher percentage of genus prevotella9 whose percentage ranged from 48.40 to 87.12. these were recognized as the prevotella enterotype.to verify the existence of gut microbial enterotypes in healthy chinese people three fecal samples were extracted at another laboratory and sent for sequencing using the 16s rrna gene v4 region and hiseq platform.

the in vitro chemostat system used here may be a suitable alternative tool for the study of enterotype function.in order to build an in vitro model to further evaluate the nutritional requirements for different enterotypes and to generate alternative donor bacterial communities for fecal transplantation the stability and culturability of chinese enterotypes were investigated in the current study.1state key laboratory of breeding base for zhejiang sustainable pest and key laboratory for food microbial technology of zhejiang province institute of plant protection and microbiology zhejiang academy of agricultural sciences 198 shiqiao road hangzhou zhejiang 310021 p. r. china.

the bacterial percentage of original fecal samples and fermentation samples was used for lefse analysis.

although some studies have shown that the gut bacterial community becomes stable after the host reaches adulthood  knights et al.

the similarity of bacterial commu- nities in the original fecal sample and chemostat culture product was below 5 table  and only 29.49-61.84 of fecal genera could survive in the chemostat fig.

update on fecal microbiota transplantation 2015 indications methodologies mechanisms and outlook.gastroenterology 149 223-237 2015.de filippo c. et al.

whether prevotella enterotypes also exist in healthy chinese people needs further study.de filippo et al.

fecal bacterial genomic dna was then extracted and sent for 16s rrna gene v3-v4 region sequencing using the miseq platform.

ori original fecal sample vi and xp fermentation products using vi and xp culture media respectively.in children changes the gut bacterial community long-term.

the bacterial community of the bacteroides enterotype was simulated well in vitro independent of the original enterotypes.materials and methodsorigin of human fecal samples.

comparisons of the taxonomic differences in sequences were generated by different labs the bacterial genomic dna of three fecal samples was extracted at beijing and hangzhou by different students and were sent for sequencing on a hiseq platform at novogene beijing china and miseq platform at majorbio shanghai china individually.

prevotella is the major bacterial genus in these two samples and the similarity between these two columns was high at 0.927.simulated cultures of the chinese gut microbial enterotypes.

bacterial communities of samples n1t3ori and n2t2ori were analyzed further using shotgun metagenome sequencing with 10 gb sequences obtained for each sample.

according to previous work bacterial 16s rrna genes were amplified from extracted dna using barcoded primers 338f 5'-act cct acg gga ggc agc a-3' with 806r 5'-gga cta chv ggg twt cta at-3' 515f5'-gtg cca gcm gcc gcg gta a-3' with 806r 5'-gga cta chv ggg twt cta at-3'or 515f with 907r 5'-ccg tca att cmt ttr agt tt-3'.most next-generation sequencing was performed using an illumina miseq.

bacterial genomic dna was extracted using a qiaamp dna stool mini kit and 300 bps libraries were constructed using covaris m220 a truseq dna sample prep kit and a cbot truseq pe cluster kit v3-cbot-hs.

