The pure cul- tures were stored at -80degC in MRS broth containing 20 vv glycerol.Extraction of genomic DNA from LAB pure culturesEach bacterial isolate was grown in MRS broth containing 1.5 wv glycine to facilitate cell lysis at 37degC for 12-16 h. The cell pellet was collected by centrifugation and resuspended in 480 ml of 50 mM ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA.

The suspension was incubated aerobically at 30degC for 12 h alkalinized by adding an equal amount of a saturated NaHCO3 solution pH 8.6 and further incubated at 25degC for 1 h. The super- natant was collected by centrifugation and the absorbance of the supernatant was measured at 440 nm.

The majority of the strains belonged to the Lactobacillus genera with an overwhelming predominance of the Lb.

66-53-948261 Fax 66-53-948206Copyright c 2017 The Microbiological Society of KoreaIntroductionMiang an ethnic non-salt fermented tea leaf Camellia sinen- sis var.

The conventional me- thods and processes for the production vary considerably among regions.

The first report of the pre- sence of Lb.

The results provided in this work may lead to a better understanding of the significant role of LAB in the fermentation process associated with the development of the typical textures and flavors as well as the health-related beneficial properties of the final product.Materials and MethodsMiang samplesThirty-five samples of Miang product produced by tradi- tional methods without using a starter culture were obtained from 22 locations in 8 provinces of upper northern Thailand including Chiang Mai Chiang Rai Lampang Lamphun Phrae Nan Phayao and Mae Hong Son Table 1.

The Miang samples were not only acquired from local markets but also from Miang enterprises where they are regularly produced for distribution.

The pH of the samples was measured using a pH meter Eutech pH 510 Eutech Inst- ruments.

The total titratable acidity TTA was determined by neutralization with 0.1 N NaOH with phenolphthalein 0.1 wv in 95 ethanol as an indicator.

