each of these can be specifically targeted with infection prevention interventions.recent findings basic prevention practices such as adminis- tration of systemic antimicrobials prior to incision and delaying the procedure in the setting of fever or elevated inr are helpful for day-to-day prevention of cardiac device infections.

however data re- garding which prevention strategies are the most important is limited as are data regarding the optimal prevention program for day-to-day prevention borer et al.

infections that are related to device contamination can be targeted with specific prevention interventions during the peri-procedural period whereas infections that are caused by hematogenous seeding following a bloodstream infection from another source are unpredictable and generally are not avoidable with traditional prevention programs.procedure-related infections generally occur within 6 months after implantation and most commonly within a 90-day window .

infection prevention interventions cannot change these fac- tors but these patients may derive more absolute benefit from more aggressive prevention strategies than lower-risk patients.

small single-center studies pro- vide proof-of-concept that prevention interventions can re- duce infections however data regarding which prevention strategies are the most important is limited  .

curr infect dis rep 2017 19 34 doi 10.1007s11908-017-0591-8a roadmap for reducing cardiac device infections a review of epidemiology pathogenesis and actionable risk factorsto guide the development of an infection prevention program for the electrophysiology laboratorywestyn branch-elliman12published online 16 august 2017 us government outside the usa 2017abstractpurpose of review cardiovascular implantable electronic de- vice cied infections are highly morbid common and cost- ly and rates are increasing sohail et al.

small single-center studies provide proof-of- concept that bundled prevention interventions can reduce in- fections particularly in outbreak settings.

europace16101482-9 2014.summary evolution of infection prevention programs to in- clude ambulatory and procedural areas is crucial as healthcare delivery is increasingly provided outside of hospitals and op- erating rooms.

the chain of infection model can be used to frame the devel- opment and evaluation of infection prevention interventions by breaking up key interactions procedure-related infections can be avoided.

infection prevention interventions such as hand hygiene programs use of protective equipment environ- mental screening and prophylaxis target different links in the chain.

a review of current prevention strategies and the evi- dence supporting them follows.procedural checkpointsstopscardiac devices are placed underneath the skin the area where the device resides is often termed the device pocket.

1 the chain of cardiac device infectionpatients are at inherently higher risk of infection due to mul- tiple factors scoring systems have been developed to identify and target patients who might benefit from more aggressive prevention strategies such as the use of pockets with or with- out impregnated antimicrobials .bundled approachesalthough checklists have not been widely implemented to reduce cied infections there is strong evidence supporting their utility for reducing other hais including surgical site infections central line-associated bloodstream infections and ventilator-associated pneumonias .

one center reported low rates of cied infections 0.26 overall in the setting of an aggressive prevention bundle that included skin preparation with alcohol followed by povidone-iodine ad- ministration of antimicrobials prior to incision and continuing for 5 days after incision pocket washing with povidone- iodine solution and skin closure with absorbable sutures.

clinical research demonstrates that simply having a surveillance system and providing feedback to pro- viders can lead to reductions in ssi perhaps due to the hawthorne effect seen with other infection prevention inter- ventions  .

infection prevention programs can also use ssi surveillance reports to target interventions such as appro- priate antibiotic use to improve practice and reduce infec- tions.

