the resistance results and the origin of the submitted samples to the tests can be described in table 2 showing that the isolated yeasts from humantable 1. origin and susceptibility of 89 yeasts tested against four antifungals by vitekr 2 system.table 1. continued...table 1. continued...table 2. profile susceptibilidad of yeasts from different origin against them antifungal fluconazole flucytosine voriconazoleand amphotericin b obtained by the vitekr 2 system.hospitalary environment presented the higher resistance to the fluconazole 1289 13.49 and the higher susceptibility to the flucytosine 100. the isolated yeasts from cow's milk with subclinical mastitis presented a higher resistance to the amphotericin b 489 4.49 and to the voriconazole 289 2.25 and also a higher susceptibility to the flucytosine 100. the isolated yeasts from the wild animal's microbiota showed a high resistance to the fluconazole 789 7.87 followed by the amphotericin b 389 3.37 and both were 100 susceptible to the flucytosine and the voriconazole which demonstrates that human isolated yeasts had a major resistance than the yeasts isolated from wild animals to the antifungals used.

the rest of the yeasts did not present resistance results four 4.49 to the flucytosine two 2.25 to the fluconazole 11 12.36 to the voriconazole and three 3.37 to the amphotericin b as described in table 1.the higher antifungals action spectrum is shown in the following decreasing order for the flucytosine the susceptibility rate was of 95.5 for the voriconazole 80 for the amphotericin b 80 and for the fluconazole 58.8. for the flucytosine the most susceptible species were c. guilliermondii c. albicans c. parapsilosis and c. famata.

yeasts were obtained from the mycology collection of mycology laboratory in the department of microbiology and parasitology located in the biology institute from the federal university of pelotas.the yeasts isolates were identify and grouped in eight fungal genera each one with their respective species candida albicans 11 c. guilliermondii 14 c. famata 10 c. parapsilosis 10 c. ciferri 4 c. catenulata 2c.

however the repetitive and prolonged fluconazole use inimmunologically compromised patients can developed resistance against this fungi.many resistance mechanisms are well known such as the intrinsic fluconazole resistance expressed by isolates of c. krusei and c. glabrata borowicz et al.

2002.the antifungal resistance in yeasts like any other microorganism can be classified as intrinsic resistance natural resistance and acquired resistance.

the increase of the antifungal resistance may be due to the use of selective therapies with inadequate doses or to the drug's frequent use in the fungal infection prophylaxis both in human and animals which may affect the selective clinical resistance colombo and guimaraes 2007galle and gianinni 2009.the vitek 2 compact system is an automatized commercial method for antifungal susceptibility analyses which determinates the spectrophotometric yeast growth allowing the identification of different species comparing the biochemical profile with a wide data base al-sweih et al.

presented susceptibility variations rates against the amphotericin b dividing the species inside this genus in two groups one group having the susceptible species such as c. guiiliermondii c. parapsilosis and c. albicans and the other group having the resistant species such asc.

2006. candida albicans is the most predominant specie present in about 50 of all the isolates followed by c. glabrata c. parapsilosis and c. tropicalis present in around 10 to 25 respectively.

rugosa 1 c. peliculosa 1 c. lipolytica 1 c. globosa 1 cryptococcus laurentii 9 trichosporon asahii 2 trichosporon sp.

ciferri c. famata and c. albicans.it has been observed a significant difference between the drugs susceptibility profiles and the fungal specie p 0.05 according with the statistical analyses performed through the chi-square test.

the yeasts isolated from the h group showed the highest resistance to fluconazole 1289 13.49 followed by group w 7.87 and group m 5.62. the more resistant group to voriconazole was followed by the m and h groups the w group showed no resistance to this antifungal.

2014 confirming its reliability in the identification.the four antifungal drugs studied showed different susceptibilities against the yeasts species wherein fluconazole presented a higher resistance against the three isolated origins followed by the amphotericin b and the voriconazole meanwhile the flucytosine presented efficiency against all yeasts present in this study none of the yeasts showed resistance to the flucytosine.

which can occur due to the higher drug exposure in human compared to the animals who live isolated in wild environment and most of the cases never had contact with any kind of drugs.these results also demonstrate the need of susceptibility characterization of the yeasts against the antifungal drugs before any antimicrobial therapy use in order to avoid the microorganism's resistance and the drug overdose.referencesal-sweih n. khan z. khan s. and devarajanl.v.

to perform the test the platescontaining the four antifungal drugs were added and inserted in the equipment.for the antifungal susceptibility test the vitek 2 compact system follows the clinical and laboratory standars institute clsi european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases eucast and food and drug administration fda international standards.

f. mendesa c. l. goncalvesb g. f. ferreirab i. a. estevesb c. h. freitasbj.

