simply put eddies form turbu- lent ocean whirlwinds that depending on their rotation have the ability to stimulate or sup- press surface layers of their nutrient and microbial content.the opportunity to compare the impact of contrasting ocean dynamics on the microbial communities of southern ocean eddies presented itself between 22 april and 7 may 2012. the objective of the 2012 survey was to investigate the exact nature of two contrasting adjacent eddies within this eddy hotspot  and to determine how these features influence the microbial communities within the antarctic polar frontal zone apfz.materials and methodsoceanographic data collectionsince water sampling was conducted within international waters outside of the prince edward islands marine protected area no sampling permits were required.

these two contra-rotating eddies provided a fortuitous opportunity to study for the first time the importance of eddies from these different oceanic environments and with contrasting internal dynamics upwelling vs downwelling on the entrainment of microbes within the apfz and the mechanisms responsible for their distribution.nutrient analysis and primary productivitythe apfz in which these eddies were observed is characterized as a zone of high-nutrient low-chlorophyll   due to light limitation deficiency of trace nutrients such as iron silica limitation of diatom production  and grazing by zooplankton .

regional investigations in the vicinity of the prince edward islands have shown that eddies provide an important foraging ground for the islands' resident grey-headed albatrosses  and elephant seals -.previous studies show that the environment upstream of the prince edward islands is rich in eddies characterized by mixed plankton communities and diverse biogeography .

this provided a unique opportunity to investigate the microbial communities in eddies from different oceanic environments and with contrasting internal dynamics upwell- ing vs downwelling and their potential influence on ecosystem function of the apfz.bacterial community analysisa total of 90402 bacterial 16s rrna sequence reads obtained from samples collected across the two eddies were analyzed .

as with the bacterial communities the presence of eddy-specific chloroplast otus that were also present in the waters from which these eddies originated is consistent with the entrainment of biota from their point of origin.distinct microbial communities in warm- versus cold-core eddiesa non-metric multiple dimension scaling nmds analysis was conducted to examine the relatedness between microbial communities present in the two eddies.

given the fairly even distribution of the dominant otus between these two eddies it is likely that planc- tomycetes diversity may be an important factor in distinguishing the bacterial communitiesof the two eddies.

overall the close relationship between bacterial and microphytoplankton communi- ties in the warm- and cold-core eddies with the subantarctic and antarctic respectively are consistent with the entrainment of biota from the eddy source transport to and eventual release into the apfz.upwelling of nutrient-rich bottom waters by cold-core eddies results in high levels of pri- mary productivity that make them important foraging grounds for top predators .

research articlea pivotal role for ocean eddies in the distribution of microbial communities across the antarctic circumpolar currentsiddarthan venkatachalam1 isabelle j. ansorge2 adriano mendes1a lebohangi.

open accesscitation venkatachalam s ansorge ij mendes a melato li matcher gf dorrington ra 2017 a pivotal role for ocean eddies in the distribution of microbial communities across the antarctic circumpolar current.

transient mesoscale eddies in the southern ocean are known to relocate zoo- plankton communities across the antarctic circumpolar current acc and are important foraging grounds for marine top predators.

in this study we investigated the role of cyclonic and anti-cyclonic eddies formed at the south-west indian ridge on the spatial variability and diversity of microbial communities.

we focused on two contrasting adjacent eddies within the antarctic polar frontal zone to determine how these features may influence the microbial communities within this region.

the water masses and microbiota of the two eddies representative of a cyclonic cold core from the antarctic zone and an anti-cyclonic warm-core from the subantarctic zone were compared.

the data reveal that the two eddies entrain distinct microbial communities from their points of origin that are maintained for up to ten months.

our findings highlight the ecological impact that changes brought by the trans- location of eddies across the acc have on microbial diversity.author and source are credited.

