n engl j med 329977-986. uk prospective diabetes study ukpds group 1998 intensive blood-glucose control with sulphonylureas or insulin compared with conventional treatment and risk of complications in patients with type 2 diabetes ukpds 33. lancet 352837-853. gubitosi-klug ra braffett bh white nh sherwin rs service fj lachin jm tamborlane wv diabetes control and complications trial dcctepidemiology of diabetes interventions and complications edic research group 2017 the risk of severe hypoglycemia in type 1 diabetes over 30 years of follow-up in the dcctedic study.

eur j clin investig 38607-614. cryer pe 2015 hypoglycemia-associated autonomic failure in diabetes maladaptive adaptive or both diabetes 642322-2323. chow e bernjak a williams s fawdry ra hibbert s freeman j sheridan pj heller sr 2014 risk of cardiac arrhythmias dur- ing hypoglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes and cardiovas- cular risk.

among these classes of drugs that have an impact on the endothelium rock inhibitors such as y-27632 and fasudil have shown promising therapeu- tic advantages on cardiovascular diseases including athero- sclerosis and chf   as well as significant beneficial effects on diabetic endothelial dysfunction of coronary arteries .studies focused on the role of inflammation and metaflammation in the risks of heart failure diabetes and obesity may integrate therapeutic targets and provide a new tool to evaluate progress of treatment.thyroid hormones and hypoglycemiain patients without diabetes mellitus heart failure can be as- sociated with hypoglycemia and such patients have high in- hospital mortality .

persons with diabetes who have a sud- den increase in frequency or severity of hypoglycemic epi- sodes not explained by changes in diet physical activity or dosage of glucose-lowering drugs must be evaluated for hy- pothyroidism .drugs for chronic heart failure and the risk of hypoglycemiacompared with nondiabetic individuals diabetic patients are less likely to receive efficacious therapies for systolic heart failure perhaps due to the increased rate of adverse reactions andor intolerance to renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system blockade and the increased prevalence of renal disease in the presence of diabetes .the drugs commonly prescribed to chf patients comprise angiotensin-converting enzyme ace inhibitors angiotensin receptor blockers arb beta-blockers calcium channel blockers mineralocorticoid receptor agonists mra hydralazineisosorbide dinitrate h-isdn diuretics ivabradine digoxin statins and nitrates.

cardiovasc diabetol 1114. haas sj vos t gilbert re krum h 2003 are beta-blockers as efficacious in patients with diabetes mellitus as in patients without diabetes mellitus who have chronic heart failure a meta-analysis of large-scale clinical trials.

management of chf in the presence of diabetes mellitus and rehabilitation of these patients is a stepwise process where each step should be based on multimodal approach.the existing approaches to multidisciplinary team work represent a foundation for establishing refined principles of team care specifically for diabetic patients with chf.a series of live grand rounds presentations and an on- demand cme-certified webcourse aimed at building a team approach to managing hypoglycemia comorbidities and pa- tient challenges represent the exemplary efforts for helping t2d patients .

n engl j med 308485 - 491. diabetes control and complications trial research group 1993 the effect of intensive treatment of diabetes on the development and progression of long-term complications in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

adv exp med biol 860139-152. valensi p 1998 diabetic autonomic neuropathy what are the risks diabetes metab 24suppl 366-72pop-busui r braffett bh zinman b martin c white nh herman wh genuth s gubitosi-klug r dcctedic research group 2017 cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy and cardiovascular outcomes in the diabetes control and compli- cations trialepidemiology of diabetes interventions and complica- tions dcctedic study.

diabetes spectr 27197-206. american association for diabetic educators 2016 role of the diabetes educator in inpatient diabetes management.

pre-diabetes mellitus is associated with a higher risk of adverse cardiovascular outcomes in com- parison with patients without diabetes .chronic heart failure chf is a common complication of diabetes.

diabetes care 37217-225. marques jl george e peacey sr harris nd macdonald ia cochrane t heller sr 1997 altered ventricular repolarization during hypoglycaemia in patients with diabetes.

propose to consider hypoglycemia a counterbalance measure of quality in order to fully optimize and individualize glycemic control in diabetic patients .implementation of new oral antihyperglycemic drugs of- fers novel treatment opportunities but challenges of managingchf patients with diabetes persist.

the users of glipizide or glyburide who require anti-infective treatments are at risk of hypoglycemia .t2d patients receiving polytherapy can develop severe hypo- glycemia associated with levofloxacin .new and emerging therapies with reduced hypoglycemia riskstudies contributing to a better way to address complications of diabetes including the challenges of hypoglycemia are ur- gent which is especially vital for vulnerable chf patients.

the educational objectives of the course are stated as follows bat the conclusion of this activity par- ticipants should be able to demonstrate the ability toconsider the risk of hypoglycemia associated with current therapeutic agents when determining treatment and re- evaluate the impact of hypoglycemia on patient outcomes throughout ongoing management of t2d patientsintegrate the most recent evidence into current guidelines to provide a multifaceted individualized approach to pa- tients with t2d to maintain glycemic control and reduce micro- andor macrovascular complicationsempower patients through individualized patient educa- tion and collaboration with the care team to address the breakdown of barriers for optimal outcomes .similar cme initiatives focusing on management of chf in diabetic patients are desirable.a multidisciplinary team led by the joint british diabetes society jbds and including representation from diabetesfig.

interdisciplinaryintroductionchronic abnormalities in blood glucose are caused by a loss of pancreatic insulin-producing b cells in type 1 diabetes t1d or by abnormal sensing of insulin by body cells and impaired glucose-induced insulin release in type 2 diabetes t2d.

