2009.Bacteroides tethaiotaomicron is considered as the archetype for studies of sus genes and PULs given the large number of genes encoded in its genome circumscribed to oligo and polysaccharide degradation function a trait that confers to this species a high versatility to degrade a wide variety of glycan compounds Xu et al.

Likewise reconstruction of genes for carbohydrate degradation from gut metagenomicAbbreviations ACP Acyl carrier protein ARDB Antibiotic Resistance Genes Database ATCC American Type Culture Collection AXOS arabinoxylan- oligosaccharides CAT Cazymes Analysis Toolkit server CAZy Carbohydrate Enzyme Database cDNA complementary DNA CECT Spanish Type Culture Collection CRISPR clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats dsDNA double-stranded DNA ENA European Nucleotide Archive GABA gamma-aminobutyric acid GH glycoside hydrolase GIT human gastrointestinal tract GT glycosyl transferase KEGG Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes LC liquid chromatography LPS lipopolysaccharide Mbp mega base pair MS mass spectrometry MvirDB Microbial database of protein toxins virulence factors and antibiotic resistance genes for bio-defence applications NTCT National Collection of Type Cultures OD600 optical density at 600 nm ORF open reading frame PUL polysaccharide utilization loci qPCR quantitative polymerase chain reaction RPKM reads per kilobase of transcript per million mapped reads RQ relative quantification RSMD root-mean-square deviation SMART Simple Modular Architecture Research Tool SR specificity regions ssDNA single- stranded DNA UPGMA unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean VFDB Virulence Factors Database WBE wheat bran extract WGS whole genome sequence.data has indicated that Bacteroides uniformis also exhibits an important glycolytic capability Tasse et al.

In addition to the GT genes exclusively present in the genomes of strains of B. uniformis the strains the B. uniformis CECT 7771 and 3978-T3i strains exhibited the largest number of GT enzyme encoded genes 30 when compared with counterparts 25 genes per strain on average.

Thus in species like B. vulgatus and B. fragilis which are considered as pathobionts Wexler 2007 the number of these genes are abnormally lower than in other species this is particularly notable for B. fragilis which has almost half of genes found in B. uniformis strains.Finally a searching for potential antibiotic resistance and virulence genes was completed by comparing the full set of ORFs predicted to be encoded in the B. uniformis CECT 7771 genome according to the proteins annotated in the ARDB MvirDB and VFDB databases.

Among the set of genes specifically associated with WBE see Figure 5A N  10 we found an over-expression pattern for those encoding ABC transporter proteins K02003 K02004 K2005 outer membrane protein K012538 and evidently genes encoding enzymes for xylan metabolism as beta-glucosidase K05349 xylose isomerase K01805 and beta-D-xylosidase K15920.InulinSimilarly to WBE inulin induced differential expression in a low number of genes.

Functional categorization of genes with a trend to be over- expressed includes genes involved in glycolysis and galactose degradation as well as other genes involved in keratan sulfate chondroitin sulfate heparan sulfate dermatan sulfate D- galacturone and D-glucuronate degradation.

1997 and they are co-regulated with other genes encoding enzymes involved in glycan degradation in the so called PULs polysaccharide utilization loci Martens et al.

Assessment for presence of virulence factors antibiotic resistance genes and toxins was done by executing local blast to compare all the ORFs predicted against the annotated proteins present in the VFDB Chen et al.

2010 we retrieved annotation of ORFs encoding enzymes homologs to reference genes present in the CAZy database Lombard et al.

Theabove observation reveals a new degree of specialization of B. uniformis strains that outnumber the CAZy genes found in other Bacteroides species even in B. thetaiotaomicron the archetype for characterization of PULs and B. cellulosilyticus previously described to encode an expanded glycolytic potential McNulty et al.

