in this study the potential of lysef-p10 a new lysin derived from a isolated enterococcus faecalis phage ef-p10 as an alternative treatment for multidrug-resistant e. faecalis infections was studied.

for this reason there is an urgent need to develop new antibacterial agents to fight infections caused by multidrug-resistant e. faecalis particularly the vancomycin-resistant strains.several studies have investigated the characteristics and therapeutic administration of e. faecalis phages.

additionally it remains unknown whether in vivo administration of e. faecalis phage lysin affects the commensal e. faecalis that colonizes the gastrointestinal tract.

in contrast in addition to killing their natural target e. faecalis several other reported e. faecalis phage lysins such as the amidase orf9 of phage phef24c plyv12 of e. faecium phage ph1 ime-ef1 lysin efal-1 lys168 and lys170 reported to kill the related species e. faecium.

although the e. faecalis strain used in the challenge differed between theprevious study and this study the lethal challenge dose of e. faecalis was similar.

as e. faecalis is the principal member of the genus enterococcus this result indicates that the e. faecalis strain used in the challenge may be capable of entering and colonizing the gut.more importantly we found that when lysef-p10 was administered the abundance of the genus enterococcus in the faeces fell.

other e. faecalis strainsand e. faecium strainswere also used to determine the bactericidal spectrum of lysef-p10.binding activity of lysef-p10c-gfp and lysef-p10b-gfp with e. faecalis.

openreceived 27 april 2017accepted 14 august 2017 published xx xx xxxxendolysin lysef-p10 shows potential as an alternative treatment strategy for multidrug- resistant enterococcus faecalis infectionsmengjun cheng1yufeng zhang1 xinwei li1 jiaming liang2 liyuan hu1 pengjuan gong1 lei zhang1 ruopeng cai1 hao zhang1 jinli ge1yalu ji1 zhimin guo3 xin feng1 changjiang sun1yongjunyang1 liancheng lei1 wenyu han14  jingmin gu 1phage-derived lysins can hydrolyse bacterial cell walls and show great potential for combating gram- positive pathogens.

only lysef-p10 showed highly efficient broad-spectrum bactericidal activity against e. faecalis.

we also found that calcium can switch lysef-p10 between its active and inactive states and that lysef-p10b is responsible for binding e. faecalis cells.

a single administrationof lysef-p10 5 mg was sufficient to protect mice against lethal vancomycin-resistant enterococcus faecalis vref infection and lysef-p10-specific antibody did not affect its bactericidal activity or treatment effect.

these results indicate that lysef-p10 might be an alternative treatment for multidrug-resistant e. faecalis infections.bacteriophages phages are bacterial viruses that are able to specifically infect and kill target host bacteria result- ing in the release of progeny phages.

in particular lysins show great potential for combating antibiotic-resistant gram-positive pathogens.enterococcus faecalis is a gram-positive bacterium that is usually considered harmless and commensally col- onizes the lower intestinal tract oral cavity and vaginal tract of humans and animals.

e. faecalis can also be1key laboratory of zoonosis research ministry of education college of veterinary medicine jilin university changchun 130062 p.r.

despite its commensal behaviour e. faecalis is also an important oppor- tunistic pathogen.

