there are 2866 single-cell genomes and 4622 genomes reconstructed from metagenomes which are already registered in the genomes online database gold.

our standards form a set of recommendations for the generation analysis and reporting of bacterial and archaeal sin- gle amplified genomes sags and metagenome-assembled genomes mags and supplementary table 1. we hope that these standards will promote the collection and reporting of appropriate contextual metadata necessary to support large-scale comparative studies and assist researchers with retrieving genomes of unculti- vated microorganisms from and depositing them to the internationala full list of authors and affiliations appears at the end of the paper.received 10 november 2016 accepted 27 april 2017 published online8 august 2017 corrected after print 29 november and 7 december 2017 nucleotide sequence databases.our standards feature mandatory requirements but are flexible enough to accommodate changes over time.

assembly of microbial genomes from metagenomic sequence reads was pioneered in 2004 by tyson et al.by extracting near-complete genomes from a metagenome of an acid mine drainage community that contained only a few bacterial and archaeal taxa.

metagenomic binning has proven powerful for the extraction of genomes of rare community members 1. for example differential coverage binning has been used recently to extract near-complete genomes of the low-abundance candidate phylum tm7 saccharibacteria from wastewater biore- actor samples.

for example complete genomes are preferable for pangenome analyses and genetic linkage studies whereas par- tial genomes may be suitable for fragment recruitment analysesfigure 2 generation of sags and mags.

there are many highly recommended tools and techniques that can reduce or remove con- taminating dna in a genome before database submission see sections on 'single amplified genomes' and 'metagenome-assembled genomes' and supplementary table 1 under 'decontamination software'.these approaches typically calculate the fraction of single-copy genes used in completeness estimates that are present more than once in a genome although contamination can be overestimated when a gene is artificially split at contig ends and scaffolding points.

for mags genomes in this category are to be considered population genomes.

genomes in this category should also encode the 23s 16s and 5s rrna genes and trnas for at least 18 of the 20 possible amino acids as even the reduced genomes of bacterial sym- bionts typically harbor the full complement of trnas.

identification and assembly of genomes and genetic elements in complex metagenomic samples without using reference genomes.

large-scale sequencing efforts that accelerated discovery of this diversity such as the human microbiome project the earth microbiome project and the genomic encyclopedia of bacteria and archaeahave improved our understanding of microbial diversity and function as it relates to human health biogeochemical cycling and the evolutionary relationships that structure the tree of life.with advances in sequencing technologies throughput and bio- informatics approaches tens to hundreds and even thousands of microbial genomes can be retrieved from complex samples with- out cultivation of any of the community members.

these numbers are increasing rapidly and will soon outpace the rate of sequencing of cultivated microbial isolate genomes.as this field matures it is crucial to define minimum standards for the generation deposition and publication of genomes derived from uncultivated bacteria and archaea and to capture the appropriate meta- data in a consistent and standardized manner in line with previous efforts for cultivated isolate genomesand marker gene surveys.

for example as sequence read lengths increase new methods for assembly and metagenomic40003000200010000first metagenomics study with extracted mags3next-generation sequencing arrives8586firstsag from environmental sample88single-molecule long-read sequencing90firstlarge-scale sag study13firstlarge-scale mag study11figure 1 sequencing of bacterial and archaeal genomes.

inset displays the number of isolate genomes over time for comparison.

mags on the other hand are produced using computational binning tools that group assembled contigs into genomes from gbp-level metagenomic data setsand supplementary table 1. both sags and mags are often highly fragmented and are sometimes contaminated with non-target sequence.

owing to these challenges we propose that sags and mags need to have some shared metadata supplementary table 1. our standards extend the mixs checklists by including additional criteria to assess sag and mag quality which will soon become core standards required for submis- sion to suitable databases such as those found at the national center for biotechnology information ncbi and the european molecular biology laboratory-european bioinformatics institute embl-ebi hinxton uk the dna database of japan ddbj and gold.single amplified genomes.

