2 analysis of fecal microbiota with 16s rrna gene sequencing revealed that there were no differences in microbial diversity inverse simpson index between groups at baseline a. at the phylum level the microbial composition was similar in all groups except in the 5-fluorouracil group which exhibited elevated relative abundance of firmicutes and decreased relative abundance of actinobacteria b. at the end of the experiment irinotecan had induced a significant decrease in microbial diversity compared to the other groups c. the administered chemotherapeutics caused significant changes in thecomposition of fecal microbiota d. irinotecan treatment increased the relative abundances of fusobacteria and proteobacteria as well as decreased the relative abundances of actinobacteria bacteroidetes and synergistetes.

the serum levels of another ketone body acetoacetate did not differ between the groups suggesting that ketogen- esis was not overly active in the treatment groups despite their increased levels of certain serum fatty acid moie- ties.

vip scores revealed the individual metabolites that were the most relevant for discrimination vip score  1 between the treatment groups and the control group b d f. the color of the bars indicates the direction of the metabolic change relative to the control group green significantly increased resonances relative to control group red significantly decreased resonances relative to control group.

vip scores revealed the individual metabolites that were the most relevant for discrimination vip score  1 between the treatment groups and the control group b d f. the color of the bars indicates the direction of the metabolic change relative to the control group green signifi- cantly increased resonances relative to control group red significantly decreased resonances relative to control group.

metabolic changes in serum and urine metabolome were measured with 1 mm proton nuclear magnetic resonance 1h-nmr.results irinotecan increased the relative abundance of fusobacteria and proteobacteria while 5-fu and oxalipl- atin caused only minor changes in the composition of fecal microbiota.

at the end of the experiment filled-out shapes t2 the control serum samples and chemotherapy-treated serum samples cluster separately from thebaseline samples suggesting both chemotherapy-induced and time- dependent changes in the metabolome a. in the urine analysis only the chemotherapy-treated groups cluster separately from baseline indicating only chemotherapy-induced alterations in the metabolome b. ctl control 5-fu 5-fluorouracil group oxa oxaliplatin group and iri irinotecan groupour results also showed that intestinal permeability to iohexol and body weight loss correlated with microbial diversity and with the abundance of fusobacteria and pro- teobacteria.

our secondary aim was to examine how these changes relate to the gastrointestinal toxicity associated with chemo- therapy and to identify possible biomarkers for cigt.overall our results show that the chemotherapy-associ- ated phenotype is associated with increased relative abun- dance of bacteria known to produce lipopolysaccharidelps increased levels of serum fatty acids and nch33 moieties and decreased levels of krebs cycle metabo- lites and free amino acids.

all microbial changes were deemed signifi- cant when p  0.05. the differences in relative metabolite concentrations between the control group and the treatment groups were calculated with multivariate paired analysis spss statistics 22.0 ibm armonk ny usa.

all identified metabolites and their resonances are listed in online resource 1.table 1 intestinal permeabilitygroupto iohexol ip and body weight change bwc in different treatment groups 72 h after drug administrationcontrol5-fluorouraciloxaliplatinirinotecankruskal-wallisip 0.47 - 0.18b1.6 - 1.5ab2.6 - 1.5ab8.1 - 8.9bp  0.001 bwc 0.88 - 2.6b-6.6 - 2.3b-11.6 - 3.4b-16.0 - 3.5bp  0.001results are expressed as medians - interquartile rangesa statistically significant difference between groups p  0.05b statistically significant difference between groups p  0.001abcdfig.

nonetheless the connections between elevated serum reso- nances of nch33 moieties gut microbiota and cigt areinteresting.we also observed significant changes in energy metabo- lism in the treatment groups.

we also observed changes in skeletal muscle energy metabolism as all treatment groups exhibited significantly increased values of urinary creatinine.

briefly after administration of the chemotherapeutics all treatment groups experienced signifi- cant body weight loss and an increase in intestinal perme- ability to iohexol compared to the control group p  0.001 table .fecal microbiota analysisat baseline there were no statistical differences in fecal microbiota diversity inverse simpson index between control and treatment groups fig.

all chemotherapeutics increased the levels of serum fatty acids and nch33 moieties and decreased thelevels of krebs cycle metabolites and free amino acids.conclusions chemotherapeutic drugs 5-fluorouracil oxaliplatin and irinotecan induce several microbial and metabolic changes which may play a role in the pathophys- iology of cigt.

in our study urinary hippurate levels correlated positively with fecal microbial diversity suggesting that decreased hippurate excretion may be a good indicator of disturbed intestinal microbiota home- ostasis in cigt.in conclusion commonly used chemotherapeutics5-fu oxaliplatin and irinotecan induce several micro- bial and metabolic changes which may play a role in the pathophysiology of cigt.

abnormal hippurate formation also appeared in the irinotecan group where the animals excreted benzoate at a similar level as the control group but this was accompanied by very low urinary levels of hippurate.

