p-values for permanova with rat nested in treatment group are shown and full results are in  before h. diminuta infection day 1 to day 30 n  80 c prepatent period of h. diminuta infection day 38 to day 50 n  32. d patent period of h. diminuta infection day 51 to day 82 n  80.followed by recovery of the community but instead alpha diversity increases fairly steadily over time in both treatment groups as the rats mature .

we required significantly associated otus to i differ significantly between infected and control treatment groups during the patent period but not in the period before infection andchange significantly between the period before infection and the patent period in h. dimin- uta-treated rats.

infection period light gray  before infection n  10 per rat gray  prepatent period n  4 per rat black  patent period n  10 per rat.shift at the community level beta diversity is a result of changes at the strain and species level and  rather than broad shifts from bacilli firmicutes to clostridia bacteroi- detes observed previously in h. diminuta infected rats  .

we cannot comment on tregs as they are included in the group of double-negative t-cells but not specifically measured.our hematological data showed no eosinophilia in rats over the course of h. diminuta infection  which is an expected part of the type 2 immune response to h. diminuta in mice   and rats .

mean absorbance values for rats infected with hymenolepis diminuta dark grey n  4 and control rats light grey n  4. other notes as in .between treatment groups in the patent period permanova pseudo-f  2.24 df  1p  0.015  when h. diminuta was established in the small intestine and modulating the immune system.

rarely found tissue eosinophilia in h. diminuta infected rats and peripheral blood may not be suit- able for characterizing eosinophilia.overall our immunological data suggest that h. diminuta larvae induce a short type 2 immune response in the very beginning of infection--prepatent period--that likely contrib- utes to expulsion of many worms.

we ask i whether h. diminuta infection causes a disturbance of the gut microbiota in the prepatent or patent period and ii how long-term h. diminuta colonization influences the host immune system.material and methodsanimal usewe performed two experiments one in which we tracked the microbiota and broad immuno- logical response experiment a and a follow up in which we assessed il-10 cytokine gene expression over time to characterize the type 2 immune response to h. diminuta infection experiment b .

levels of iga antibodies to h. diminuta only were significantly elevated in the h. diminuta infected group throughout the patent period .interleukin 10 expression during h. diminuta infection.

abundance of leukocytes in blood samples of rats infected with hymenolepis diminuta dark grey n  4 and healthy uninfected rats light grey n  4. the samples were taken before infection during the pre-patent period after infection before establishment and at two time points during the patent period after the establishment of the infection.

abundance of red blood cells hemo- globin and hematocrit in blood samples of rats infected with hymenolepis diminuta dark grey n  4 and healthy uninfected rats light grey n  4. the samples were taken before infection during the pre-patent period after infection before establishment and at two time points during the patent period after the establishment of the infection.

abundance of red blood cells indices-mch mchc and mcv in blood samples of rats infected with hymenolepis diminuta dark grey n  4 and healthy uninfected rats light grey n  4. the samples were taken before infection during the pre-patent period after infection before establishment and at two time points during the patent period after the establishment of the infection.

abun- dance of double-negative t-cell populations in flow cytometric samples from rats infected with hymenolepis diminuta dark grey n  4 and uninfected rats light grey n  4. the error bars represent the 95 confidence intervals for the mean leukocyte cell counts at each sampling loca- tion for each group of rats.

abun- dance of double-positive t-cell populations in flow cytometric samples from rats infected with hymenolepis diminuta dark grey n  4 and uninfected rats light grey n  4. the error bars represent the 95 confidence intervals for the mean leukocyte cell counts at each sampling location for each group of rats.

the blood samples for il-10 analyses were collected in seven time points on days 30 37 43 49 61 73 and 85 .we checked fecal samples of all rats for the presence of h. diminuta eggs daily beginning on day 45 12 days post infection--dpi using the modified sheather flotation method spg 1.3 to confirm infection of rats in the treatment group and the absence of infection in the negative controls.

we analyzed the fecal extracts from the h. diminuta infected group n  4 rats and the control group n  4 rats at six time points over the course of the experiment.

