it is also possible the pathology cases with no infection determined by urine microscopy only could be due to a chronic uro- genital schistosomiasis infection in which egg shedding reduces progressively with occurrence of pathologies.to summarize while the current study substantially reports differences in the urinary tract microbiome between persons infected with urogenital schistosomiasis and healthy persons and between persons having bladder pathologies due to urogenital schistosomiasis and per- sons with urogenital schistosomiasis infection alone there are a few possible limitations.

there was a non-significant reduction in diversity in female samples.using only control samples unclassified enterobacteriaceae and unclassified pseudomonada- ceae were significantly abundant in females p  0.035 p  0.021 respectively.several taxa distinguish urogenital schistosomiasis infected cases from non-infected cases as well as advanced cases from infection alonethere was a significant difference in the microbial community between infected and non- infected at all levels tested genus level p  6.55e-10 and otu levels p  2.06e-16 .

predicted biochemical changes due to microbiome differences in a urogenital schis- tosomiasis induced bladder pathology advanced and urogenital schistosomiasis infection alone infection b urogenital schistosomiasis induced bladder pathology advanced and pathology without infection b.path c urogenital schistosomiasis induced bladder pathol- ogy advanced and healthy controls control.tifauthor contributionsconceptualization adewale s. adebayo atinuke m. agunloye raphael d. isokpehi chiakaanumudu.formal analysis adewale s. adebayo raphael d. isokpehi chiaka i. anumudu.investigation adewale s. adebayo shrikanth bhute atinuke m. agunloye chiaka i. anumudu.methodology adewale s. adebayo mangesh survayanshi shrikanth bhute yogesh s. shouche.project administration chiaka i. anumudu.visualization adewale s. adebayo raphael d. isokpehi.writing - original draft adewale s. adebayo chiaka i. anumudu.writing - review  editing adewale s. adebayo shrikanth bhute atinuke m. agunloye raphael d. isokpehi chiaka i. anumudu yogesh s. shouche.referencescolley dg bustinduy al secor we king ch.

a differentially abundant microbiome families in urogenital schistosomiasis infected and controls non-infected b differentially abundant microbiome genera in urogenital schistosomiasis infected and controls non-infected c differential microbiome genera between urogenital schistosomiasis infection-only and urogenital schistosomiasis induced bladder pathology advanced d differentially abundant microbiome genera in non-infected bladder pathology pathology-only and urogenital schistosomiasis induced bladder pathology advanced fdr0.05.

we also detected several benefi- cial and stress tolerant taxa in control cases and immune-stimulatory taxa in urogenital schis- tosomiasis infected and urogenital schistosomiasis associated bladder pathology cases.

we found a non-significant reduction in mean diversity in infected cases compared to non-infected in pathology cases compared to no- pathology cases and in advanced cases compared to others p  0.1 .

the mean relative abundance of two phyla proteobacteria participants in urine microbiome study from eggua southwestern nigeria.advanced urogenital schistosomiasis infection  abnormal bladder morphologies infection-only urogenital schistosomiasis infectionpathology-only abnormal bladder morphologies controls no infection or pathology.the most dominant genera and their respective families in the urinary tract microbiome of individuals in eggua southwest nigeria.

at genus levels only two of the significant taxa sphingobacter- ium and aerococcus were projected as markers of infection while several genera including tra- bulsiella and weissella associated with non-infected .predicted microbial biomarkers in urogenital schistosomiasis cases infected and controls non-infected.predicted changes in functional categories relate to cellular maintenance and lipid metabolismusing our sequence abundance data we obtained imputed metagenomes and the associated kegg orthology pathways present in the microbiome.

in the current study the reduction in diversity is most likely due to presence of s haematobium infection because there is increased diversity in pathology-only cases n  10. hence the reduction in diversity in advanced cases is not likely to be because of the contribution of pathologies but rather of s haematobium infection.

the proportions of proteobacteria differed among groups highest in infection- only 65 and pathology-only 80 cases and lowest in advanced cases 42. the proteo- bacteria proportion was higher in non-infected 73 compared to infected 66 and was unchanged in pathology 68 compared to pathology-absent cases 69. in all three com- parisons the opposite is true for firmicutes.

the objective of the research study was to determine the microbiome features and changes in urine during urogenital schistoso- miasis and induced bladder pathologies.methodologyseventy participants from eggua southwestern nigeria provided morning urine samples and were screened for urogenital schistosomiasis infection and bladder pathologies in a cross-sectional study.

four other otus all assigned to staphylococcus comparison of microbiome diversity indices a between urogenital schistosomiasis infection and controls b in different states of urogenital schistosomiasis and controls and c among age groups.

the occurrence and different forms of bladder tumors and bladder pathologies have been associated with urogenital schistosomiasis in nigeriaand in other parts of africa .research on molecular pathology influencing the outcomes of bladder infection by schisto- soma haematobium is urgently needed to develop new diagnostics therapeutics and infection prevention strategies.earlier studies have suggested that the mechanism of formation of bladder tumours will be due to formation of nitrosamines polyaromatic hydrocarbons free radicals and presence of microbes .

the study which was entirely culture based also highlighted that common urinary tract infection dominated by e.coli and klebsiella may associate with urogenital schistosomiasis infection.

b differential abundance in the urine microbiome of persons with urogenital schistosomiasis infection with- out bladder pathology infection-only and pathology without schistosomiasis infection pathology-only fdr0.05.differential abundance was measured with logfc the log2 of the number of times the sequences belonging to a genus or family are more numerous in one group relative to the other.

