the immunoglobulin concentrations were deter- mined using a purified mouse iga standard southern biotechnology associates inc. birmingham al usa rodrigues et al.

we conclude that despite similar survival curves cv animals succumb to an exaggerated inflammatory response whereas gf mice fail to produce an adequate systemic response.keywordsgerm-free mice gut inflammation microbiota toxoplasma gondii toxoplasmosistoxoplasma gondii has a broad worldwide distribution and approximately one-third of the human population is serum positive for the parasite tenter et al.

infected cells secrete cytotoxic molecules that attract neutrophils macrophagesmonocytes and t cells mennechet et al.

cd4 t-lymphocytes in the lamina propria in synergy with infected enterocytes secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tnf-a and ifn-c. the latter induces macrophages dendritic cells and enterocytes to produce microbicidal molecules such as no which should eliminate the parasite buzoni-gatel et al.

2006. comparisons of germ-free gf and conventional cv animals have confirmed a role for the indigenous microbes in inflammatory and immune response.c 2017 the authors.international journal of experimental pathology c 2017 international journal of experimental pathology191intestinal microbiota plays an important role in host animal homoeostasis sartor 2010 martins et al.

2013 sanders et al.

disrup- tions of the microbial community changes host susceptibil- ity to infection and the infection itself can disturb the microbiota and the host inflammatory response sekirov  finlay 2009 sanders et al.

2013. currently available data comparing gf and cv animals indicate that the indigenous microbiota almost always has a profound influ- ence on host-parasite relationships during bacterial and protozoan infections sartor 2010. sometimes the pres- ence of the indigenous microbiota is essential for the pathogenicity of some protozoa and helminths phillips  wolfe 1959 vieira et al.

1987 torres et al.

2000. in contrast the microbiota can reduce the pathological con- sequences of other infectious diseases as described for experimental infections with protozoa fungi and hel- minthes salkowski et al.

1987 silva et al.

1987 martins et al.

a study using gf and cv mice revealed that the gut microbiota modulated the expression of many genes in the human or mouse intestinal tract including genes involved in immunity nutrient absorption energy metabolism and intestinal barrier function larsson et al.

the presence of probiotics in the gastrointestinal tract can also affect patterns of gene expression as demonstrated in a recent human study van baarlen et al.

campinas sp brazil with controlled lighting 12-h light-dark cycle humidity 60- 80 and temperature 22 - 1degc and were monitored daily.experimental infectioncysts were obtained from the brains of swiss mice that were chronically infected with the intermediate virulence strain tgctbr07 genotype 67 described elsewhere carneiro et al.

