she had classic seropos- itive ra with severe symmetrical polyarthritis a positive test for acpas and 2 copies of se alleles hla-drb10401 and 0101. in this patient an immunogenic hla-dr-presented peptide derived from a p. copri protein pc-p27 was identified from the patient's pbmcs 25. we then showed that approximately 40 of patients with ra have t andor b cell responses to pc-p27 or to the whole p. copri organism 25.in patient ra1 2 immunogenic hla-dr-presented human self-peptides derived from gns and flna were also identified from her synovial tissue and the same flna peptide was also found in her pbmcs 20. the hla-dr-presented peptide derived from gns was predicted to be promiscuous binding to 24 of the 25 hla-dr molecules modeled in the program tepitope 26did not include the testing of irrelevant control peptides in theseexperiments.

altogether 21 of the 40 patients 52 had t cell reactivity to gns andor flna peptides and 10 25 had reactivity to both.b cell reactivity to gns and flna proteins.

altogether 48 48 of the 101 ra patients had igg autoantibodies against gns and or flna and 10 10 had igg reactivity against both proteins.because autoimmune processes in ra may be triggered at mucosal sites we also tested the levels of iga antibodies against gns and flna in serum samples from patients and control sub- jects.

altogether 21 21 of the 101 ra patients had iga antibody responses against gns andor flna and 10 10 had iga antibody responses against both proteins.when igg and iga responses were considered together 48 of the 101 patients with ra 48 had igg antibody responses against gns andor flna 21 21 had iga responses against 1 or both of the proteins and 56 55 had igg andor iga respons- es against the proteins.

these results sug- gest that the gns protein but not the flna protein may be citrul- linated in vivo in patients with ra.utility of gns and flna autoantibody evaluation in the diag- nosis of ra.

in an effort to determine whether t cell epitope mimicry may play a role in linking prevotella reactivity with gns and flna autoimmune responses the sequence of each of the 2 self-peptides isolated from patient ra1 was used first to search for regions of similarity with any microbial protein using thefigure 4. autoantibody responses to citrullinated gns and flna and correlations with acpas.

moreover hla-dr molecules encoded by ra se alleles bound the gns peptide and to a lesser degree the flna peptide with higher affinity than did non-se alleles and se alleles largely influence the generation of acpas 3.both flna and gns self-antigens which are often highly expressed in ra synovial tissue represent good autoimmune tar- gets.

gns is an enzyme located in lysosomes and is involved in the degradation and recycling of different molecules such as gly-cosaminoglycans gags httpsghr.nlm.nih.govgenegns a major component of joint cartilage and other soft connective tis- sues 41. flna is a ubiquitous fundamental protein for building the cell cytoskeleton and organizing the extracellular matrix 42. in addition flna is required for cell-cell contact in vascular devel- opment 43. consistent with its function we found that flna protein was especially prominent in the tunica muscularis around blood vessels in ra synovial tissue and was also faintly expressed in the extracellular matrix.

sim- ilarly flna protein levels were significantly higher in the serum of ra patients than in hcs p  0.0001 but in ra patients flna protein levels in sf and serum were similar figure 5b.to gain further insight into the protein abundance and dis- tribution synovial tissues from 10 patients 4 with ra and 3 each with la or osteoarthritis oa were stained for expression of gns and flna using immunohistologic methods.

because the results were similar in both groups they are presented together here.of the 101 patients with ra 32 32 had igg antibody responses against gns that were greater than 3 sd above thosefigure 2. igg and iga responses to gns and flna in ra patients and comparison group subjects.

thus t and b cell con- cordance was greater with gns than with flna.correlation of antibody responses against p. copri gns and flna.

copri antibodies 25.instead among the porphyromonadaceae the gns epitope had partial sequence similarity with a peptide from the periplas- mic protein n-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase of the parabacte-figure 5. gns and flna protein levels in ra patients and comparison group subjects.

overall when autoantibody responses against gns and flna were combined with standard autoantibody determinations 87 86 of the 101 patients with ra had a positive test result for support of the diag- nosis and only 14 14 lacked a specific marker for ra.gns and flna protein levels in serum and joints.

moreover the major area of homology was again found in the hla-dr-binding groove where 7 of the 9 amino acids were identical in the prevotella and flna peptides and the remaining 2 amino acids had conserved properties figure 7a.for comparison we analyzed the gns and flna sequences for homology with p. gingivalis a periodontal pathogen of interest in ra using porphyromonadaceae taxid171551 as the reference database in the blastp search.

in initial experiments a pbmcs from patients with ra or la or from hc subjects were stimulated with a pool of 4 peptides including the single gns hla- dr-presented peptide isolated from the synovial tissue of patient ra1 and 3 predicted promiscuous hla-dr-binding peptides from gns 1 mm each.

