the purpose of this paper is to i review the evidence suggesting that in utero transmission of microbes from mother to infant in humans occurs ii describe potential sources of transferred bacteria iii discuss potential physiologi- cal mechanisms of transfer and iv discuss modifiersof the maternal microbiome and how they may influence early life infant health.the foetal gut is not sterilethe long-standing hypothesis that a foetus develops in a sterile environment and thus is born with a sterile gut is being challenged 4446. until recently bacte- rial colonization was most commonly observed in the context of infections of the foetal membranes amniotic fluid andor preterm delivery whereas there was little evidence for bacteria at these sites in healthy pregnancies 47-49. recent advances in dna sequencing technology have improved our ability to detect bacteria in maternal tissues beyond what was possible with culture-based methods alone table 1. for example in a study of 23 healthy newborns reduced diversity of bacteria in meconium first stool after birth was observed compared with adult stool samples with reductions in bacteroidetes and firmicutes bacteria common in the adult but not infant gut microbiome 50. the bacterial composition of meconium considered a proxy for the in utero gut microbiome did not differ based upon vaginal or c-section birth.

bacterial transloca- tion has been found to be increased during pregnancy and lactation in mice and bacteria can be found in low amounts in the blood of healthy pregnant women 9798. maternal bacteria therefore may translocate to intrauterine sites and take part in the verticaltransfer of microbes to the foetal gut in utero 14. alterations to the endothelial integrity of the placenta in pregnancy could allow a formerly impermeable barrier to 'leak' bacteria and lps into the cord blood and amnion 32. this hypothesis is supported by the observation of lps in the cord blood of healthy and preterm pregnancies 99. similarly cord blood obtained during 20 healthy elected c-section deliver- ies showed 45 of blood samples to contain species also identified in the oral cavity 89. in pregnant mice inoculated with a genetically labelled strain of bacteria isolated from human breast milk the identical strain was detected in the amniotic fluid of the inoculatedcolonization of the gut microbiome in utero11mice but not in a placebo group 100. despite detecting bacteria in the placenta it is difficult to determine their origin.

16s rrna sequencing of the vaginal samples from 396 healthy women revealed that the primary bacteria present are lactobacillus 54. lacto- bacillus contribute to the regulation of vaginal ph and mediate infection via the production of lactic acid.table 1 summary of literature identifying maternal bacteria as potential sources of infant transfer in humansauthor referencepopulationsample sizemethodrelevant findingspublic datameconiumhu et al.

the gut microbiome exceeds the size of all other microbial communities and is predominantly composed of trillions of bacteria often representing thousands of species 1. the gut microbiome is a diverse and specialized ecosystem that can be altered by many factors including diet age and antibiotic use 2-5. it is composed of distinct communities of bacteria that are generally stable during adulthood and mostly mutualistic andor commensal in their relationships with the human host 6. it is becoming increasingly evident that the bacteria that populate our gut play a role in health and disease.

this contrasts with prior assumptions that ascension of bacteria from the vagina was the only plausible method of bacterial colonization in intrauterine tissues 577677.pathogenic species of bacteria have been detected in intrauterine locations for some time in the context of infections complications or preterm delivery 78-80. the types and origins of bacteria existing in these sites in the context of healthy pregnancy are relatively unknown.

bacterial infection of the placenta or foetal membranes is viewed as a risk for preterm delivery consistent with the observation that pathogenic bacteria are found in greater abundance in placentas from preterm deliveries 82. a majority of placentas from preterm deliveries contain bacteria but common non-pathogenic species belonging to bifidobacterium and lactobacillus are also found albeit at lower abundances in term placentas 82-84. forty-eight placental samples from healthy pregnancies were recently found to contain a unique and diverse microbiome predominately composed of commensal bacteria.

when pooled samples of human saliva and subgingival plaque were injected into 10 pregnant mice all of the placentas contained one or more species of bacteria present in the human oral samples 87. this suggests that bacteria in the blood caused by periodontal infection or other infections associated with pregnancy complications 49 can be a source of hematogenous bacterial translocation to the placenta.in addition to placental tissue bacteria are also present in amniotic fluid and cord blood two addi- tional potential sources of mother-to-infant transmis- sion.

multiple bacterial species were identified using culture and dna-based analyses of amniotic fluid from 166 preterm deliveries in which 15 of samples contained bacteria 88. a larger proportion of mothers with bacteria in their amniotic fluid delivered prematurely consistent with prior literature associat- ing the presence of bacteria in the amniotic cavity with preterm delivery 7988. similarly paired amniotic andcolonization of the gut microbiome in utero 9figure 1 maternal sites that may contribute to offspring gut microbiome.

translocation of bacteria from the oral and gut microbiomes of mothers during pregnancy in ad- dition to ascension of bacteria from the vaginal microbiome may explain the presence of non-pathogenic bacteria in intra- uterine locations.

maternal transfer of bacteria to the foetus could occur for physiological reasons such as foetal intestinal immune development 8592. more animal model and clinical research is warranted to clearly define potential maternal sources of bacteria oral gut vaginal amniotic fluid and placenta and to define mechanisms underpinning vertical transmission of bacteria to the infant gut in utero.maternal environment and the infant microbiomeif maternal transfer of the microbiome to the foetus does occur under normal conditions in humans the process is likely impacted by maternal environmental factors known to influence the microbiome including diet antibiotic exposure stress and health status.

in addition to alterations to the gut microbiome pregnant women also undergo physiological changes that favour translocation of bacteria to intrauterine sites where gut and oral bacteria have been measured 3290100. this combined with the detection of bacteria in the meconium of most infants suggest that vertical transmission in utero may occur.studies targeting colonization of the foetal gut in utero will be paramount to furthering our understand- ing of the early life gut microbiome.

w. walker et al.in the subsequent maturation of microbial communi- ties specifically in the gut 20. bacterial diversity increases with age and composition gradually resembles that of adults 2122 achieving measur- able stability early by 3 years in life and consisting of a 'core' set of inhabitants that generally persist 22-25. the proportion of certain bacterial groups that compose the gut microbiome and the rate at which the community stabilizes have been associated with future health outcomes 26. recent research has focused on identifying factors responsible for shaping the early infant gut microbiome and understanding how the succession of the newborn gut perhaps sets the stage for future health 3212227-29. develop- ment of the newborn gut microbiome is influenced not just by the mode of birth whether it be a vag- inal or c-section 3031 but also by several other factors such as duration of gestation antibiotic exposure nutrition and genetics 32-38. these exposures may influence the bacteria that infants are first exposed to which are themselves involved in the early development of the immune system metabolic programming neurodevelopment and risk for future disease 1112143940. hence it is thought that there is a critical window in early infancy and possibly in utero during which cross talk between the gut microbiome and biological systems most notably immune and metabolic mediates development and sets the stage for future health 12041.some studies have described the early develop- ment of the infant gut microbiome 2228384243 but it remains unclear how and when the gut is initially colonized with bacteria.

89pregnant women36 preterm8 termculture 16 s rrna sequencingmost prevalent species detected were ureaplasma parvumnaescherichia coli and fusobacterium nucleatumhigh degree of bacteria overlap with cord bloodbearfield et al.

low abundance richness and diversity of bacteria abundance of proteobacteria enterobacter and escherichia shigella propionibacterium and enterobacteriaceae species microbiota similar to meconiumnasrasrp 238913dbgap nawang et al.

j reprod immunol 2014 104-105 12-19.prince al j ma ps kannan et al.

