in a previous work we have shown that the concen-tration of cml in the crust can be 5 times greater than that of the crumb.6 melanoidins measured using our newly devel- oped technique combining size exclusion chromatography and fluorescence were detected only in the bread crust.6thus bread crumb while containing some traces of early and advanced mrps do not contain terminal products and can be used as a control for the bread crust when aiming to study the health impacts of bread melanoidins.the results of studies carried out on complex heated foods remain controversial regarding the impact of mrps on health.7 however advanced mrps such as cml have been linked to several health complications such as aging.89 melanoidins on the other hand are associated with dietary fibers1011 and mul- tiple studies showed that certain melanoidins have anti- oxidant antimicrobial and chelating abilities.4the impact of mrps on microorganisms and particularly gut microbiota varies widely according to the mrp model system used and the experimental protocol applied.1112 while certain studies showed melanoidins to have a bifidogenic impact1314 our work on bread crust melanoidins in vitro showed an individual-dependent impact on this particular flora.11 the main finding in our in vitro study was however the inhibition of enterobacteria by bread melanoidins which leads to the hypothesis that bread melanoidins might be ableto exert an anti-inflammatory effect.this current study is aimed at evaluating the impact of bread melanoidins on the gut microbiota composition in rats and particularly to validate or negate their bifidogenic impact.

the rats were fed a control diet supplemented with either crust rich in melanoidins crumb low on melanoidins a fiber-free crust model bcm bread crust model or the fiber- free melanoidin-free control mfc.

this content is almost equivalent to the cml amount measured for the a04 mixture supplemented with 13 bread crust called the crust diet 13.15 - 0.5 ug g-1 and the a04 mixture sup- plemented with 13 of the bread model simulating the crust called the bcm diet 13.95 - 0.38 ug g-1.

gut micro- biota composition as well as fecal excretion of cml from both bread crust and bread crumb and of melanoidins from bread crust were assessed on a rodent model.

rats were fed with pellets supplemented or not with 13 of bread crust bread crumb a fiber-free bread crust model glucose starch and glutenheated together or a fiber-free-melanoidin-free bread model glucose-starch and gluten heated separ-ately for four weeks.

a higher excretion of melanoidins was observed for rats fed with crust or bread crust model compared to their controls confirming that melanoidins are in contact with gut microbiota.

the first consisting of 52.25 g of starch and2.75 g of glucose mixed together was sprayed with ultra-pure water to form a thin crust and baked under the same con- ditions as the bread crust model.

1 cml and soluble melanoidin content of the five diets p  0.05p  0.01 p  0.001.table 2 dry components and calculated composition of crust crumb bcm and mfc dietsa04 crust  crumb bcm  mfca04 100 87870.04 x 1010 arbitrary fluorescence unit per gram of feed respectively.

3. despite a sig- nificant 10 difference in cml content between the crust and the crumb pellets no statistically significant difference was detected in fecal excretion of this compound for the two diets.a first explanation is that though statistically significant the low initial difference in cml content between diets crust vs. crumb compared with what is used in other studies is responsible for the small difference in excreted levels and therefore the lack of highly significant correlation between the two parameters.

this can be explained by the difference in the melanoidin-skeleton that could be different between crust and bread crust model.however the lack of impact on the numbers of a popu- lation does not imply a lack of impact on the diversity within this population.

2017 8 2722received 18th march 2017 accepted 27th june 2017doi 10.1039c7fo00430cfecal excretion of maillard reaction products and the gut microbiota composition of rats fed with bread crust or bread crumbc.

a decrease of enterobacteria was only observed for rats fedwith the diet supplemented with the fiber-free bread crust model.

moreover a significant increase ofbifidobacteria numbers in the presence of crust crumb and both bread models was observed showing that this bifidogenic effect of bread is not due to the presence of melanoidins or wheat-native dietary fibers.introductionin both western and mediterranean dietary patterns bread is a major component of the diet.

this layer becomes the crust of the bread and its temperature will increase throughout baking towards the temperature of the oven.

the temperature and moist-ure content differences between the crust and the crumb leadto different reaction kinetics and therefore to differing levels of mrps.

