Whatever the kind of food the addition of TiO2 is limited to 1 of the overall food weight in the United States  and it is used at quantum satis levels in Europe which means that although no maximum level is specified it is to be used at levels not higher than necessary to achieve the intended purpose  .Global per capita TiO2 ingestion depends on geography with the population of the USA and the UK consuming 0.2e0.7 mg and1 mg TiO2kg body weight bw per day respectively  .

These results further suggest that TiO2-containing food additives could be of lesser concern for consumers since these two conditions are found in the human gut.Although these results on food grade TiO2 should be greeted as good news for consumers these studies must be validated in vivo as there may be different effects.

eImpact of food grade and nano-TiO2 particles on a human intestinal communityWilliam Dudefoi  Kristy Moniz  Emma Allen-Vercoe  Marie-Hele'ne Ropers Virginia K. Walker   a INRA UR1268 Biopolym'eres Interactions Assemblages 44300 Nantes Franceb Department of Biology Queen's University Kingston ON K7L 3N6 Canadac Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology University of Guelph Guelph ON N1G 2W1 Canadad Department of Biomedical and Molecular Sciences School of Environmental Studies Queen's University Kingston ON K7L 3N6 Canadaa r t i c l e i n f oArticle historyReceived 14 December 2016 Received in revised form1 May 2017Accepted 25 May 2017Available online 28 May 2017Keywords Titanium dioxide NanoparticlesHuman intestinal microbiota ConfectionaryFood additivesa b s t r a c t Titanium dioxide TiO2 nanoparticles NPs are used as an additive E171 or INS171 in foods such as gum candy and puddings.

At the low concentrations used neither the TiO2 food additives nor control TiO2 NPs had an impact on gas production and only a minor effect on fatty acids profiles C1600 C1800 151 w5c 181 w9c and 181 w9c p  0.05.

Such minor shifts in the treated consortia suggest that food grade and nano-TiO2 particles do not have a major effect on human gut microbiota when tested in vitro at relevant low concentrations.

This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-NDlicense .IntroductionTitanium dioxide TiO2 is a white metal oxide commonly used as whitening or brightening agents in various applications such as paints cosmetics and food products.

As a food additive TiO2 is referred to as E171 in Europe and INS171 in North America.

However recent assessments indicate that food grade TiO2 can be composed of up to 44 nanoparticles NPs  .

Since changes to this microbiota can be asso- ciated with disease states such as obesity diabetes rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease   it is important and timely to assess the impact of food grade TiO2 on the human gut consortia.

However its complexity and the variability in species composition between in- dividuals means that assessment of the impact of food additives on this ecosystem is problematic and difficult to interpret.

