8 781-788doi10.1093carcinbgx053advance access publication june 5 2017 original articleoriginal articlefusobacterium and colorectal cancer causal factor or passenger results from a large colorectal cancer screening studyefrat l.amitay simone werner marius vital dietmar h.pieper daniela hofler indra-jasmin gierse julia butt yesilda balavarca katarina cukandhermann brenner1division of clinical epidemiology and aging research german cancer research centre dkfz heidelberg 69120 germany 2microbial interactions and processes research group helmholtz centre for infection research hzi braunschweig 38124 germany 3division of molecular diagnostics of oncogenic infections german cancer research center dkfz heidelberg 69120 germany 4division of preventive oncology german cancer research center dkfz and national center for tumor diseases nct heidelberg 69120 germany and 5german cancer consortium dktk german cancer research center dkfz heidelberg 69120 germanyto whom correspondence should be addressed.

this finding along with the positive association of fusobacterium genus with more advanced tumor stage supports the assumption that fusobacterium is a passenger bacterium or that it only promotes cancer progres- sion in further advanced colorectal lesions rather than playing a causative role at the onset of carcinogenesis.it would however be conceivable that even in the case that fusobacterium does not play a causal role in the initiation and early development of crc it could still be useful as a screeninge.l.amitay et al.

it is the third most common cancer in men after lung and prostate cancer and the second most common cancer in women after breast cancer.

the stage distribution of crc cases in our sequenc- ing data was stage i n  18 stage ii n  6 stage iii n  19 and stage iv n  3. within the crc group fusobacterium ra was posi- tively associated with cancer stage kruskal-wallis rank sum test p-value  0.049 .

785figure 2. relative abundance of fusobacterium according to most advanced findings at colonoscopy.statistically significant associations were found between dietary and lifestyle exposures and fusobacterium genus ra except for a positive association between higher body mass index and fusobacterium ra in the control group alone and an inverse association between vegetable consumption and fusobacterium in the advanced adenoma group .colorectal cancer detection models withfusobacteriumshows the results of a predictive model to distinguish crc cases n  46 from the rest of the study population n  454. a model including only fusobacterium had an auc of 0.676 whereas a model including only age and sex had an auc of 0.677. the combined model yielded an improved auc of 0.715 though the difference between the combined model and the one based only on age and sex had only borderline statistical sig- nificance p-value  0.052. when comparing crc cases n  46 to healthy controls n  231 the auc of the model including only fusobacterium was 0.675. the combined model had an auc of 0.751 compared with an auc  0.721 for the model includ- ing only age and sex p-value  0.084 for the difference between the latter models.

this is accompanied by increased expression of transcription factors oncogenes wnt and inflammatory genes as well as growth stimulation of crc cells.kostic et al.

another model for the early detection of crc was sug- gested by yu et al.

although a causal role cannot be ruled out our observations based on fecal microbiome support the hypothesis that fusobacterium is a passenger that multiplies in the more favorable conditions caused by the malignant tumor rather than a causal factor in colorectal cancer development.introductionwith estimated numbers of 1360000 new cases and 694000 deaths in 2012 colorectal cancer crc is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide.

part of this study was supported by the german cancer aid deutsche krebshilfe 111365.conflict of interest statement none declared.referencesferlay j. et al.

j. cancer 137 1258-1268.wu n. et al.

j. cancer 49 3049-3054.werner s. et al.

8abbreviationsaucarea under the receiver-operating characteristic curvecrccolorectal cancermfimedian fluorescence intensityrarelative abundanceabundance of specific bacteria in the gut microbiome of patients with crc compared with healthy controls.one common bacterium found to be significantly enriched in the gut microbiome of people diagnosed with crc compared with controls was fusobacterium .

those carrying non-advanced adenoma advanced adenoma or crc compared with individu- als free of neoplasms in order to provide clues as to a possible role of this bacterium in the development of crc.

we also assessed the associa- tion of fusobacterium ra with crc stage within the crc group.

the asso- ciations between fusobacterium ra and sociodemographic nutritional and lifestyle factors were assessed for all participants as well as for the crc and control groups.finally the association of fusobacterium with presence of crc was analyzed using logistic regression modeling and its predictive ability was estimated using the area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve auc.

