metabolomics vs. metabolomics cross-sectional and delta correlations are reported in Supplementary Table 2 Supplementary Table 3 Supplementary Table 4 and Supplementary Table 5 and visualized in Figure 2 and Supplementary Figure 1.

PubMed 16723398Price et al.Page 23Shannon P et al.

Cholesterol serotonin a-diversity IBD and bladder cancer communitiesA Cholesterol community B Serotonin community C a-diversity community D The polygenic score for inflammatory bowel disease is negatively correlated with cystine E The polygenic score for bladder cancer is positively correlated with 5-acetylamino-6- formylamino-3-methyluracil AFMU.Price et al.Page 30Figure 5.

The cross-sectional correlation network is provided in Supplementary Table 2 inter-omic only and Supplementary Table 3 full.

The delta correlation network is provided in Supplementary Table 4 inter-omic only and Supplementary Table 5 full.We identified clusters of related measurements from the cross-sectional inter-omic correlation network using community analysis an unsupervised approach that iteratively prunes the network removing the edges with the highest betweenness to reveal densely interconnected subgraphs communities11.

The notebooks provided are Generate correlation network.ipynb which generates a correlation network of all data for the p100 project Community Generation-DELTA.ipynb which generates aPrice et al.Page 22correlation network for change in data measurements for the p100 project.

The line shown is a yx regression line and the shaded regions are 95 confidence intervals for the slope of the line.Price et al.Page 31Table 1Longitudinal analysis of clinical changes by roundGeneralized estimating equations GEE were used to estimate average changes in clinical labs over time.

Samples were left in the tube and shipped at ambient temperature.Price et al.Page 12All clinical labs measured using both vendors are listed in Supplementary Table 1.Whole Genome SequencingParticipant whole blood samples were submitted to either Complete Genomics Inc. 41 participants or the New York Genome Center 67 participants for whole genome sequencing WGS.

PubMed 25146375Chen R et al.

PubMed 3168304Jensen LJ et al.

