bar 50 mm.d density of lcms in wt mice and mice deficient for ccr2 cx3cr1 ccr5 ccl5 tlr4 or myd88.e-g blood monocyte counts e at different ages before and after weaning f at 5 weeks of age after 2 weeks of antibiotic treatment g after treatment of adult mice with a single dose of m279.wt recipient mice were treated with a single dose of m279 antibody to deplete lcms and injected i.v.

the density of lcms in liver capsules of ccr2-deficient mice was similar to that in ccr2-sufficient mice d indicating that although ccr2 played a key role in regulating the number of circu- lating monocytes it was dispensable for their recruitment to the liver capsule andor their intrahepatic differentiation into lcms.the chemokine receptors cxcr4 ccr5 and cx3cr1 and chemokine ccl5 also known to influence macrophage and monocyte recruitment were found to be dispensable for the re- cruiting of circulating lcm precursors andor for their intrahe- patic differentiation as determined by lcm density in deficient animals d. in addition sorted purified cx3cr1-defi- cient monocytes adoptively transferred into m279-treated recip- ient mice reconstituted the liver capsule and gave rise to lcms h.lcms are sensitive to anti-csf-1r antibody f and thus depend on csf-1r signaling.

the positive correlation between the number of monocytes and lcm density was supported by 1 increased numbers of circulating monocytes and lcms after weaning e 2 decreased numbers of circulating monocytes and lcms in antibiotic-treated mice f 3 decreased numbers of circulating monocytes after treatment with m279 that depleted lcms g and 4 the reported decrease in hematopoiesis including monocytes in germ-free mice  .csf-1 is enriched in the liver capsule and is critical for lcm homeostasisccr2 regulates recruitment of monocytes and their differentiation into tissue-resident cx3cr1hi macrophages in the small intestinal lamina propria  and could play a similar role in re- cruiting monocytes to the liver capsule.

bar 50 mm.density of lcms in mice treated with anti-csf-1 or isotype control antibody p  0.029 mann whitney test n  4. in all graphs bars represent mean - sem of at least three individual mice per group.do not differentiate into lcms in the uninflamed liver it is tempting to speculate that they potentially use lcms as gate- ways when they migrate via the hepatic capsule to repair damaged liver tissue .recent studies suggest that the origin distribution specific tissue location and functional specialization of macrophages is imparted by micro-environmental cues that shape the epigeneticchromatin landscape of macrophages or their precursors rather than by an imprinted precursor program  .

the percentage of non-host chimerism for lcms was approximately half that observed for ly6chi blood monocytes c. these results show that lcms can be replenished from bone- marrow-derived cells in the absence of irradiation or ischemia re- perfusion-induced inflammation.to evaluate whether lcms could be derived from blood monocytes cd45.1 wt mice were joined by parabiosis to cd45.2 cx3cr1-gfp mice lacking ccr2  .

bar graphs represent mean - sem of at least three individual mice per group.e wt recipient mice were treated with a single dose of m279 antibody to deplete lcms and gfp sorted monocytes or peritoneal macrophages from macgreen mice adoptively transferred 7 days later.

the above data identified cd207-egfphi f480 capsular cells as a distinct macrophage subset morphologically anatomically and phenotypically different from kcs leading us to name them''liver capsular macrophages'' lcms.lcms in adult livers are bone marrow derived and can be replenished from circulating monocytesto determine whether lcms could be replenished from adult bone marrow bm c57bl6 mice were irradiated and reconsti- tuted with bm cells from itgax-yfp mice in which lcms ex- pressed the yfp reporter a 2b s3a and s3b.

9 days after adoptive transfer of sorted monocytes gfp lcms were de- tected in the liver capsules of recipient mice e. in contrast sorted macgreen peritoneal macrophages trans- ferred into m279-treated recipients did not give rise to lcms e suggesting that although these cells are recruited to the liver after inflammation  they did not contribute to the lcm pool in the absence of inflammation.lcm accumulation accelerates at weaning and coincides with establishment of the microbiotalcm numbers were assessed during the postnatal period using macgreen mice.

while our results suggest that peritoneal macrophagesc and d cd45.1 mice were parabiotically joined to c congenic cd45.2 cx3cr1-gfp mice or d cd45.2 cx3cr1-gfp ccr2-- mice.

and g.w.m.acknowledgmentswe would like to thank prof. l. guidotti and dr. m. iannacone for sharing their technical expertise in 2pm liver imaging prof. b. malissen for cd207-egfp mice dr. matthew sweet for mac-blue mice and dr. h. wu for tlr4- and myd88-deficient mice.

cd207-egfp mice were kindly provided by prof b malissen mac-blue mice by dr matthew sweet and both tlr4 and myd88 deficient mice by dr h wu.

bone marrow cells were washed 3 times before being counted and 5 3 106 cells were injected intravenously into 7-8-week-old c57bl6 mice that had been lethally irradiated at 950 r. bm chimeric mice were analyzed at 8 weeks post-reconstitution.csf-1r monoclonal antibody treatmentfor single dose treatment mice were injected ip with 400 mg of either anti-csf-1r ab m279 amgen or rat igg control ab.

to demonstrate that lcms can derive directly from circulating monocytes sorted gfp cells from macgreen csf1r-egfp mice that were enriched in monocytes were adoptively transferred into syngeneic mice pre-treated with a single dose of m279 antibody.

lcms were present in adult germ-free mice b but at lower density than infigure 3. genomic expression profile of liver capsular cells reveals a distinct macrophage programhepatic capsular cells cd103-gfphi liver dcs cd103gfpint and epidermal lcs cd103-gfphi were sorted from cd207-egfp mice.

il-34 one of the two csf- 1r ligands  was not critical as il34-- mice contained the same lcm density as wt mice i. csf-1 the second csf-1r ligand was enriched in the hepatic capsule j while lcm density was significantly decreased when csf-1 was blocked k. together these results indicate that lcms were dependent on the csf-1r ligand csf-1 rather than il-34.lcms form a contiguous cellular network at the interface between liver parenchyma and peritoneal cavitylcms formed a contiguous cellular network in the hepatic capsule a reminiscent of lcs in the epidermis and inthe oral epithelium .

