in fact the peptide preferences of the different groups of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli could not be ascribed to features such as the length of the peptide the presence of sulfur-containing amino acids or the abundance of residues with peculiar properties hydrophobicity polarity charge and likely depend on specific proteases andor peptide transporters preferentially recognizing specific sequence motifs in the peptides.the bifidogenic effect of pr digests in pure and microbiota culturesis coherent with previous studies which described the stimulation of bifidobacteria by peptic andor tryptic digests of certain milk proteins  .

however preferential utilization or non-utilization of most peptides was asso- ciated to one or a group of strains as revealed by the pca model calculated on bifidobacteria a b. the score plot of the first 2 pcs accounting for 64 of total data variance shows that bifidobacteria are clearly grouped a on the basis of their peptide preferences observable in the corresponding loading plot b. b. adolescentis rbb4 b1 located distant from other bifidobacteria along pc1 a was the most efficient in utilizing pr peptides.

on the other hand most of the lactobacilli preferring pr digests over the peptone grew better on pr16 or pr24 than on pr36.consumption of pr peptides by bifidobacteria and lactobacillipeptide utilization was analyzed by uplcesi-ms for 8 bifidobacterium and 7 lactobacillus strains representative of different speciessubspecies and selected among those with best growth on pr digests .

other bioactive peptides which could occur in pr were no longer detectable after digestion thus some doubts arise about their real availability in vivo.potential health promoting effects of pr peptides are supported by observation that the digests of pr sustained abundant growth of pure cultures of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli natural beneficial colonizersof the human colon and potential probiotics  .

the peptide preferences of the different groups of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli could not be ascribed to features such as the length of the peptide or the abundance of residues with peculiar properties hydrophobicity polarity charge and likely depend on specific proteases andor peptide transporters preferentially recognizing specific sequence motifs.

most of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli grew more abundantly on pr digests than on the control peptone and exhibited strain- or species-specific peptide preferences as evidenced by principal component analysis.

the medium contained lactose 10 gl pr hydroly- sates or bacto peptone bd difco 5 gl ammonium citrate 2 gl yeast nitrogen base wo amino acids and ammonium sulfate bd difco1.7 gl polysorbate 80 1 gl sodium acetate trihydrate 5 gl k2hpo4 2 gl mgso4  7h2o 0.1 gl mnso h2o 0.05 gl cysteine hydrochloride 0.5 gl ph was corrected to 6.5. bacteria inoculated 5 vv in bm based media were incubated 24 h at 37 degc and passaged at least three times before evaluation of growth and peptide consumption.growth of bifidobacteria was determined in triplicate by measuring the turbidity at 600 nm od600 at the beginning and after 24 h of incubation.

5. pca model calculated on bifidobacterium strains pc1-pc2 score plot a and loading plot b pca model calculated on lactobacillus strains pc1-pc2 score plot c and loading plot d.lactobacilli were less performing in pr peptide consumption compared to bifidobacteria .

the peptide sequences were assigned on the basis of the matching fragments.uplcesi-ms analysisabsolute quantification of all the peptides identified was not possible due to the unavailability of all the peptide standards and a direct comparison of the peptide areas would have been inaccurate due to differences in ionization efficiency.

the ratio between the chromatographic peak of the peptide and that of phe-phe did not yield absolute peptide concentra- tion but allowed the comparison of the same peptide in different samples.

principal component analysis of peptide consumptionprincipal component analysis pca   was carried out to compare the peptide consumption by bifidobacteria and lactobacilli.

thus bifidobacteria and lactobacilli clustered separately in the score plot of the first 2 pcs which explains 66 of total data variance a. lactobacilli are closely grouped while bifidobacteria are much more dispersed in- dicating that lactobacilli behaved more homogenously than bifidobac- teria with respect to peptide utilization.

this study demonstrated that peptides derived from simulated gastrointestinal digestion of pr supported the growth of most lactobacilli and bifidobacteria.introductionparmigiano reggiano pr is a raw-milk hard cooked long-ripened cheese of high quality and nutritional value produced in a restricted area in northern italy.

ripened pr is lactose- and galactose- free and rich in free organic acids mostly derived from bacterialabbreviations pr parmigiano reggiano git gastrointestinal tract slab starter lactic acid bacteria nslab non-starter lactic acid bacteria pca principal component analysis hplc high performance liquid chromatography uplc ultra performance liquid chromatography esi electrospray ionization ms mass spectrometry corresponding author at dept.

on this basis it has been hypothesized that pr peptides could promote growth andor activity of these beneficial microbes thus modulating the resident microbiota towards a balanced and healthy composition .the health effects of pr bioactive peptides on intestinal bacteriarequire that they resist gastrointestinal digestion and at least partially reach the colon.

