e. histolytica burden at 24 hours after challenge was significantly higher in anti-cxcr2 pre-treated mice compared to isotype control treated mice although lower than in the antibiotic pre-treated mice .also tissue invasion of e. histolytica was more severe  and e. histolytica culture from cecal contents was positive in all anti-cxcr2 pre-treated mice as seen in antibiotic pre-treated mice .

interest- ingly despite delayed clearance of e. histolytica stool lipocalin-2 which is a neutrophil derived protein reflecting neutrophil associated gut inflammation  was lower in antibiotic pre- treated mice than those in untreated control mice at early time points of infection .these results indicated that antibiotic-induced dysbiosis increased susceptibility to amebic colitis in the mouse model consistent with what had been observed in infants.il-25 and mucosal barrier in antibiotic pre-treated micein order to assess the tissue invasion of e. histolytica in cecum at an earlier time point mice were sacrificed 24 hours after e. histolytica challenge.

while e. histolytica culture of cecal con- tents was positive in all antibiotic pre-treated mice and most untreated control mice e. histolytica burden in the cecal lumen was significantly higher in antibiotic pre-treated mice .

opposed to our hypothesis however il-1b as well as the neutrophil chemoattractant chemokines cxcl1 and cxcl2 at 24 hours after e. histolytica challenge were significantly higher in antibiotic pre-treated mice compared to those in untreated control mice  although they were elevated in response to e. histolytica challenge compared to baseline levels in both antibiotic pre-treated and untreated control mice .

compared with untreated mice antibi- otic pre-treated mice had more severe colitis and delayed clearance of e. histolytica.

wild type c57bl6 mice were treated with an antibiotic cocktail consisting of ampicillin neomycin metronida- zole and vancomycin for 2 weeks prior to e. histolytica challenge antibiotic pre-treated mice.

antibiotic pre-treated mice showed more severe weight loss andantibiotic pre-treatment rendered c57bl6 mice susceptible to e. histolytica colitis.

a the shannon diversity index of stool samples collected from antibiotic treated mice n  10 was compared with those from untreated control n  10 c57bl6 mice which were not challenged with e. histolytica.

although obviously bloody stools were not documented in any mice fecal occult blood fob was significantly higher in antibiotic pre-treated mice  .

also we found that e. histolytica dna was still detected at later time points after 4 days on challenge in stool  and at day 9 in cecal contents  in antibiotic pre-treated mice whereas e. histolytica was rapidly cleared in untreated control mice .

histolytica trophozoites invaded into mucosa with epithelial cell disruption in antibiotic pre- treated mice whereas trophozoites were localized within gut lumen in control mice .

although e. histolytica could not be identified at crypts or submucosa in the tissue immuno- histochemistry ihc using anti-e. histolytica migration inhibitory factor anti-ehmif which is a secreted protein  revealed a higher density of ehmif at crypts of the cecum in antibi- otic pre-treated mice  consistent with more severe epithelial damage and inva- sion by e. histolytica in antibiotic pre-treated mice.

these results indicate that disturbance of il-25 and the mucosal barrier were associated with tissue invasion of e. histolytica in antibiotic pre-treated mice.neutrophil associated gut inflammation was lower in e. histolytica tissue invasion in antibiotic pre-treated miceas shown above despite the more severe tissue damage with delayed clearance of e. histolytica stool lipocalin-2  was lower in antibiotic pre-treated mice than those in untreated control mice at early time points of infection .

neutrophils in the mucosa were lower in antibiotic pre-treated mice  whereas neutrophil number in submucosal tissue was not different between the 2 groups  suggesting that efficient neutrophil migration from submucosal tissue to the site of infection which plays an important role in protection from tis- sue invasion of microorganisms   was disturbed in antibiotic pre-treated mice.

neutrophil number after e. histolytica challenge in cecum but not in peripheral blood was suppressed in anti-cxcr2 pre-treated mice compared to isotype control treated mice although both are not statistically significant .

