The diversity of live microbiota was evaluated by using classical plate counts and amplicon target sequencing of small subunit SSU rRNA.

The main taxa identi- fied by sequencing were Acinetobacter johnsonii Psychrobacter Staphylococcus equo- rum Staphylococcus sciuri Pseudomonas fragi Brochothrix Halomonas and Vibrio and differences in their relative abundances distinguished samples from the individ- ual plants.

The composition of the microbiota was more similar among plants A and B and it was characterized by the higher presence of taxa recognized as undesired bacteria in food-processing environments.

The industrial processes of Lard d'Arnad production are characterized by a reduction in the salt concentration in the brines to address a consumer de- mand for less salty products this can negatively affect the dynamics and develop- ment of the live microbiota and as a consequence can negatively impact the qual- ity of the final product due to the higher abundance of spoilage bacteria.

The lard must be cut and placed in special wooden containers named doils within 72 h from the slaughtering.

The traditional recipe consists of brine at 30 of NaCl and a ripening temperature between 8 and 10degC.

The use of high-throughput sequencing HTS amplicon target sequencing was found effective to discover the presence of several live or metabolically active microbes not usually associated with that food matrix .The aim of this study was to assess the live microbiota by HTS amplicon target sequencing targeting the 16S rRNA gene coupled with classical culture-dependent methods to characterize the live microbiota during Lard d'Arnad curing and ripening.

The results of viable counts pH and water activity aw during lard ripening are shown in .

The aw value showed a significant reduction in all the samples analyzed from 0.97 to 0.83 0.87 and0.82 for A B and C respectively.

The load of Enterobacteriaceae displayed a significant reduction only for samples from A and B from log 3.32 to 1.00 and from 2.53 to 0.33 respectively P  0.05 while in samples from C it did not show a significant variation throughout the ripening.

