fatigue and sleep disturbances are also commonly reported by indi- viduals with diabetes with a recent study showing that 50 of diabetes patients reported insomnia compared to 27 of pa- tients without diabetes .

likewise type 2 diabetes t2d is one of the most com- mon chronic illnesses in the usa with experts predicting that 1 in 3 americans may have diabetes by 2050 if current trends continue .

prevalence of depression in individuals with impaired glucose metabolism or undiagnosed diabetes a systematic review and meta-analysis of the european depression in diabetes edid research consortium.

201536450-60. this review describes evidence that diabetes distress and depression are distinct overlapping constructs and reviews evidence that diabetes distress may mediate the relationship between depression and glycemic control.

further the review outlines three distinct data- driven depression symptom profiles that appear to show dif- ferential relationships with metabolic outcomesfisher l skaff m mullan j arean p glasgow r masharani u. a longitudinal study of affective and anxiety disorders depressive affect and diabetes distress in adults with type 2 diabetes.

can lifestyle interventions do more than reduce diabetes risk treating depression in adults with type 2 diabetes with exercise and cognitive behavioral therapy.

the association between depressive symptoms and systemic inflammation in people with type 2 diabetes findings from the south london diabetes study.

elevated depression symptoms antidepressant medicine use and risk of developing diabetes during the diabetes prevention program.

curr diab rep 2017 17 90 doi 10.1007s11892-017-0923-yshared dysregulation of homeostatic brain-body pathways in depression and type 2 diabetesclaire j. hoogendoorn1  juan f. roy 1  jeffrey s. gonzalez12published online 16 august 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstractpurpose of review the purpose of this review is to provide an overview of shared dysregulation of the hypothalamic- pituitary-adrenal hpa and brain-gut-microbiome bgm axes associated with depression and type 2 diabetes t2d.

future research should examine the additive burden of depression and t2don hpa and bgm dysregulation and better differentiate de- pression from emotional distress.keywords type 2 diabetes .

depression is often considered to be a comorbid condition resulting from diabetes burden.

one explanation is the excessive emotional burden of chronic diabetes especially considering the demanding na- ture of the treatment regimen and lifestyle changes that are required for illness self-management.

in support of thisreported symptoms of depression are more common among diabetes patients on a more burdensome treatment regimen i.e.

those on insulin treatment compared to oral medications only  and are more common among those with diagnosed compared to undiagnosed diabetes .

indeed research supports a link of moderate effect size between depression symptoms and problems with diabetes self-management .finally a third interpretation is that depression and t2d co- occur due to shared biological changes .

