the germination of c. difficile ccug 19126 spores and of c. difficile baa-1805 spores was not significantly differentfigure 3. spore germination was significantly inhibited in fe3-do4-treated pathogenic strains of c. difficile.

in an in vivo c. difficile infection mouse experiment we found that fe3-do4 significantly reduced the inflammation indices in the groups treated with spores fe3-do4 and that it effectively inhibited c. difficile spore germination thus controlling in vivo the virulence of c. difficile.

in a c. difficile infection animal model the inflammatory level triple decreased in mice with colonic c. difficile spores treated with fe3-do4 nanoparticles.histopathological analysis showed a decreased intense neutrophil accumulation in the colon tissue of the fe3-do4 nanoparticle-treated mice.

the spores of c. difficile are the major cause of c. difficile infection.

treatment with fe3-do4 nanoparticles did not damage c. difficile vegetative cells.figure 5. fe3-do4 nanoparticles bound to the surface of c. difficile atcc baa-1805 spores which allowed magnetic attraction.

therefore we quantitatively assessed c. difficile infection by directly injecting mice with spores which is most relevant to the pathogenesis of clinical c. difficile infection.

fe3-do4 nanoparticle treatment not only inhibited the germination of different clinical strains of c. difficile spores in vitro but also reduced the virulence of spores that induced c. difficile infection in vivo.

n engl j med 353 2442-2449 2005.jump r. l. pultz m. j.  donskey c. j. vegetative clostridium difficile survives in room air on moist surfaces and in gastric contents with reduced acidity a potential mechanism to explain the association between proton pump inhibitors and c. difficile-associated diarrhea antimicrob agents chemother 51 2883-2887 2007.wilson k. h.  perini f. role of competition for nutrients in suppression of clostridium difficile by the colonic microflora.

the rotated dynamic video supplementary video  revealed that fe3-do4 nanoparticles were directly and dose-dependently bound to the surface of c. dif- ficile spores.fe3-do4 nanoparticles as an in vivo sporicidal agent against c. difficile infection.

j hosp infect 43 s57-s68 1999.owens r. c. donskey c. j. gaynes r. p. loo v. g.  muto c. a. antimicrobial-associated risk factors for clostridium difficileinfection.

openreceived 31 january 2017accepted 12 july 2017 published xx xx xxxxoctahedron iron oxide nanocrystals prohibited clostridium difficile spore germination and attenuated local and systemic inflammationwei-ting lee1ya-na wu2yi-hsuan chen3 shang-rung wu2 tsai-miao shih2 tsung-ju li1 li-xingyang1 chen-shengyeh4 pei-jane tsai135  dar-bin shieh1267clinical management of clostridium difficile infection is still far from satisfactory as bacterial spores are resistant to many chemical agents and physical treatments.

intrarectal instillation of clostridium difficile toxin a triggers colonic inflammation and tissue damage development of a novel and efficient mouse model of clostridium difficile toxin exposure.

however most of these studies failed to show biocompatibility to the mammalian host cells and no study hasrevealed in vivo efficacy in c. difficile infection animal models.

fe3-do4 nanoparticles which had no influence on gut microbiota and apparent side effects in vivo were efficacious inhibitors of c. difficile spore germination by attacking its surface and might become clinically feasible for prophylaxis and therapy.nanomaterials have attracted significant interest in medicine.

the normal flora in the gut can inhibit the growth of c. difficile and therefore protect patients from1institute of basic medical sciences national cheng kung university 1 university road tainan 701 taiwan.2institute of oral medicine national cheng kung university 1 university road tainan 701 taiwan.

