meat is largely consumed dur- ing the dry season whereas honey berries and other fruits are consumed during the wet season.

show that hadza gut microbial diversity was higher in the dry season than in the wet season.

the overall diversity of carbohydrate enzymes was greater and the abundance of animal carbohydrate enzymes higher during the dry season as compared to the wet season.

scfas are involved in a wide range of functions that affect human health such as inflammation host metabolism and cholesterol metabo- lism 8. there has been considerable inter- est in studying the effect of diet on scfas 8. given that the hadza diet and hence the composition of the gut microbiome var-optical imaging of surface spatiochemical heterogeneitytwo copropagating slightly chirped beams red are overlapped in the sample plane of a microscope to generate second harmonic light blue over a wide field of view.water moleculesi glass capillaryies with season it is reasonable to expect the composition of scfas in the gut to also vary-- --- --------with season.

6 demonstratedwith season.

focus- ing on the two major phyla firmicutes and bacteroidetes they found that the same firmicutes otus were present in multiple seasons whereas the number of bacteroide- tes otus was substantially reduced from dry to wet season.

the most notable finding is a substantial reduction in the number of otus belonging to the prevotellaceae fam- ily within bacteroidetes from the dry to the wet season.

on the other hand the abundance of plant carbohydrate enzymes was higher in the wet season.

residents participating in the human microbiome project the hadza had a higher754 25 august 2017  vol 357 issue 6353sciencemag.org sciencein sig h t s  p er spec t iv e soverall diversity of carbohydrate enzymes re- gardless of the season.

the sensitiv- ity to broken symmetry is exploited to image preferentially ordered water at silica inter-between babies born in wet and dry seasons and the effect of birth season on health growth and development.short-chain fatty acids scfas are gut mi- crobial by-products of fermentation of food and are produced in the bowel.

