consumption of fiber-rich tubers and baobab occurs year-round 19 20. we applied principal coordinates analyses pcoa to unifrac distances of 16s ribosomal rna rrna amplicon profiles generated from sam- ples collected from two dry and one wet season fig.

differences in microbiome composi- tion between two seasons have been observed in the agricultural hutterites of the usa 22. the microbiomes of individual hadza when plotted by season revealed cyclical features microbiotas from the dry seasons in sequential years were indistinguishable from one another yet were distinguishable from the intervening wet-season microbiota p  3 x 10-15 and p  3 x 10-16 wilcoxon fig.

they live in camps with approximately 5 to 30 people per camp al- though camp numbers vary depending on the season and available resources 21. as a result of encroachment on limited land and rapid trans- culturation including increasing exposure to medicines and processed foods the hadza way of life is disappearing 20. we collected 350 fecal samples with informed consent from two cultur- ally and geographically similar camps located within 7 km of each other during a 12-month period spanning five subseasons fig.

they are affected by the localresidents fig.

notably the previ- ously reported single-season collection from the hadza fit the cyclic pattern of microbiome re- configuration fig.

both higher phylogenetic diversity and greater numbers of unique operational taxonomic units otus were observed in the dry seasons as compared with the wet season fig.

firmicutes compo- sition remained relatively stable throughout the sampling period whereas bacteroidetes otus primarily those of the prevotellaceae declined significantly in the wet season fig.

exam- ining commonly shared otus present in at least 10 of the individuals season by season revealed a pronounced constriction of bacteroidetes in the early-wet season 62.8 decrease in shared otus for late-dry-2013 to early-wet-2014 representing4.4 standard deviations sds from the means of all other seasons fig.

by contrast the shared number of firmicutes remained relatively stable across the seasons 0.21 sd fig.

many of the bacteoidetes otus display seasonal volatility with 70.2 disappearing between 2013-late-dry and 2014-early-wet 78.2 of those that disap- peared reappeared at later time points fig.

the greatest number of firmicutes otus dis- appear between 2014-late-wet and 2014-early- dry 62 76 of those are detected at other time points fig.

all boxplot distributions are tested using the nonparametric two-sided wilcoxon rank sum test with holm correction for multiple hypothesis testing center values indicate the median and error bars the standard deviation sd p  0.05 p  0.01 ns not significant.distinguish groups by integrating a linear com- bination of otus was unable to differentiate the same season dry in sequential years sup- porting the cyclic nature of the reconfiguration fig.

1e fig.

examining otus in the eight hadza individuals that were sampled across three seasons fig.

s3b revealed that the succinivibrionaceae paraprevotellaceae spirochaetaceae and prevotellaceae families were among the most variable across seasons fig.

