however this type of concerted temporal analysis has not been attempted in the traditional foci.here we investigate the phylogeography of y. pestis in madagascar over an 18 year period from 1995 to 2012. we generated whole genome sequences for an additional 31 strains enabling us to use a total of 37 malagasy strain sequences to discover additional snps that we used in conjunction with previously identified snps and multiple-locus variable-number tan- dem repeat vntr analysis mlva to genotype 773 malagasy y. pestis samples from 1995 to 2012. we then spatially map these samples through time on a fine geographic scale to exam- ine y. pestis phylogeographic patterns in madagascar through time.methodsethics statementthe dnas used in this study  were extracted from y. pestis cultures or complex human clinical samples originally isolated or collected respectively by the malagasy central laboratory for plague and institut pasteur de madagascar as part of madagascar's national plague surveillance plan overseen by the malagasy ministry of health.

overallspatial clustering of the individual nodes was consistent with the snp phylogeny withgeographic distributions of identified snp nodes within group i. four map panels showing the geographic distributions of identified snp nodes within group i phylogenetic subgroups j a l y and z b q c and s d are presented.

the single snp differentiating between groups i and ii is indicated by a perpendicular red line on the branch between nodes d and k. b mlva phylogenies of 10 and 38 malagasy y. pestis samples from basal snp nodes d and k respectively.

alignment and snp calling methods were wrapped by the northern arizona snp pipeline nasp  .new snp screeningprimers were designed targeting a 250 bp region around each of 188 newly identified poten- tial snp targets  using primer3   with strain co92 as the reference sequence and with the potential snp located at the center of each amplicon.

in madagascar the high and low plague seasons are associated with similar y. pestis population expansions and contractions as indicated by higher levels of both y. pestis seroprevalence in rats  and numbers of human cases   during the high plague season compared to the low season.

in addition as previously determined   it was also the subgroup respon- sible for the re-emergence of plague in the port city of mahajanga during the 1990s .individual snp defined nodes within subgroup s displayed some additional spatial clustering with newly identified nodes s10 -s11 found mostly in the south in districts ambositra and southern fandriana s14 found mostly in districts soavinandriana and faratsiho s15 -s16 iso- lated to district faratsiho and s17 -s18 and s20 -s22 found mostly in antananarivo and the immediately adjacent district manjakandriana.

however compared to other subgroups there was far more overlap and fewer distinct geographic patterns among the individual nodes particularly for subgroups h j and v. all three of these subgroups contained several nodes that were dispersed across the overall geo- graphic distribution of their respective subgroups including h03 h05 and h11 for subgroup h j01 -j03 and j05 for subgroup j and v09 and v11 -v13 for subgroup v figs  .similar to the geographically dispersed nodes within subgroup s most of these nodes were more basal within the phylogeny andor contained larger numbers of samples and consider- able mlva diversity  .

to address that gap and further inform our understanding of plague epidemiology we investi- gated the phylogeography of y. pestis in madagascar over an 18 year period.methodologyprincipal findingswe generated whole genome sequences for 31 strains and discovered new snps that we used in conjunction with previously identified snps and variable-number tandem repeats vntrs to genotype 773 malagasy y. pestis samples from 1995 to 2012. we mapped the locations where samples were obtained on a fine geographic scale to examine phylogeo- graphic patterns through time.

we also found evidence of various y. pestis dispersal events including over long distances but no evidence that any dispersal events resulted in successful establish- ment of a transferred genotype in a new location during the examined time period.conclusionssignificanceour analysis suggests that persistent endemic cycles of y. pestis transmission within local areas are responsible for the long term maintenance of plague in madagascar rather thanhshqdc-10-c-00139 to pk the cowden endowment at northern arizona university and wellcome fellowships 081705 and 095171 to st. the funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.repeated episodes of wide scale epidemic spread.

periodically y. pestis emerges from these enzootic reservoirs in large-scale epizootics involving massive die-offs of highly sus- ceptible rodent species that serve to amplify and spread y. pestis   .alternating enzootic and epizootic cycles human involvement and ecology have all con- tributed to the observed phylogeography of y. pestis and its consistent pattern of the spread of one to a few genotypes followed by localized differentiation.

australia did not develop enzootic foci although they did experience outbreaks which subsided after the number of non-native rodents was reduced resulting in an evolutionary dead end for y. pestis in these locations .the influence of enzooticepizootic cycling human involvement and ecology on y. pestis phylogeography is also apparent on a regional level such as in the well-studied plague foci of madagascar.

our temporal phylogeographic analysis of 773 y. pestis samples from 32 districts in madagascar collected over 18 years with an emphasis on the betafo and moramanga regions provides insight into this and other aspects of plague ecology in madagascar.previous analyses have suggested that y. pestis in madagascar is maintained in multiple geographically and phylogenetically distinct subpopulations likely sustained by the black rat -.

additional maps illustrating the geographic distributions of all of the identi- fied snp determined nodes were also generated figs and .estimation of divergence timesto determine if evolution of y. pestis in madagascar is operating under a molecular clock we reconstructed a neighbor-joining phylogeny based upon the snps identified among the 31 strains sequenced here  and the previously published genomes for strains ip275 genbank aaos00000000 and co92 .

a snp phylogeny based on 212 informative snps identifying 100 individual nodes circles and stars among 770 malagasy y. pestis samples only the lineage could be identified for the remaining 3 samples and not the specific node.

in all 100 individual nodes were identified providing considerable snp resolution among the 773 malagasy y. pestis samples  .

