allowing the enthalpy of binding to float in the fitting procedure resulted in an error exceeded 100. due to this problem as well as the absence of an enthalpic signal in the mfm titration study dh was set  0 resulting in a kd of 18 - 9 mm and a stoichiometry of 0.65-0.01 from the global fit.gabel et al.page 24figure 3. schematic illustrating the pteridine- and pabg-binding subsites of the dhfr folate binding sitethe panels illustrate how the subsites are occupied by a folate b 24-diaminopyrimidine dap and pabg c metformin mfm and pabg d mfm and a 4-methyl-substituted hippurate e mfm and the nsaid fenbufen.

the relative orientation of the dap and pabg molecules is similar in all of the structures containing both ligands and the distances between the dap c-5 and the closer pabg meta carbon are 3.8-4.0 a. the corresponding separation in bound methotrexate pdb 1ra3 is 4.7 a. the quaternary complexes in which the nicotinamide ring is in molecule d or out of the active site molecule a both correspond to closed conformations of the met20 loop although the loop conformations are not identical figure s6.to better understand how mfm might bind to dhfr modeling of mfm to dhfr was carried out using a gaussian analysis with the starting position based on three observationsthe structural analogies with the buformin and dap-pabg complexes 2 the selective perturbation of ile d-ch3 resonances positioned near the binding site and 3 the extensive iloe observations that connect the metformin methyl groups with ligands occupying the pabg subsite.

in summary in the e. coli enzyme pabg exerts both positive cooperativity as well as an indirect enzyme-mediated negative cooperativity on metformin binding.consistent with contributions from both effects positive cooperativity of mfm and pabg in dhfr inhibition studies was not observed.cooperative inhibition for pabg and mfm was also evaluated using steady state kinetics data not shown.

modeling of the alternate conformation is consistent with the conclusion that binding affinity is mainly dependent on hydrophobic interactions and the main specific interaction between the sulfonyl oxygens and arg52 can be present in either orientation.the studies summarized above demonstrate co-binding of mfm and pabg analogs and provide insight into the relative orientations of these molecules in ternary complexes with ecdhfr.structure of related quaternary complexes and the modeled metformin positionin an effort to better understand the basis of the cooperativity between ligands that bind to the two folate subsites and to have a structure more directly useful for modeling the metformin position crystal structures were determined for ecdhfr in the presence of dap pabg and nadp figure 6a.

the kdki ratio for pabg of 4.4 reflects the presence of nadph in the assay and is very similar to the kd ratio of 4.5 reported for binding of pabg to l. casei dhfr in the absence and presence of nadph 68. for pfm the ki 0.17 - 0.02 mm was intermediate between the kd values measured in the presence of nadp and nadph table 1. the global fitting procedure noted above yielded ki values of 1.3 - 0.2 mm and 0.21 - 0.02 mm for pabg and pfm respectively.iloe screening for ternary complexes containing metforminmeasurements of inter-ligand overhauser effects iloes 50-52 provide an extremely useful basis for identifying and characterizing the ternary complexes formed by metformin and additional ligands that interact with the pabg binding subsite of dhfr.

increasing evidence identifies the gut microbiome and more generally the gastrointestinal tract as important mediators of biguanideeffects 15-17. not only do these targets experience the highest concentrations ofmetformin 18 19 but oralintestinal treatment of metformin results in a greater drop of blood glucose than iv or even portal treatment 20. further growing bacteria are characterized by large negative membrane potentials21 somewhat analogous to mitochondria for which membrane potential-dependent mfm accumulation appears essential to reach inhibitory concentrations9 22.although the possibility that metformin and other biguanides could target folate metabolizing enzymes is supported by structural relationships 23-26 most reviews covering metformin activity have given little consideration to the impact that direct interference with folate metabolism would have on the cell 27 28. summarizing some of the evidence for folate pathway-mediated effects 1 elevated homocysteine levels have been observed in patients undergoing biguanide treatment 29 30 that have been reversed with supplemental folate treatment 31.

due to the complexity of biguanide conformations and potential environmental influences on the geometry the model of metformin with pabg was optimized in the binding pocket using the hybrid qmmm potential with the oniommomm framework 63 in gaussian-09-e1 64. the qm region was defined by metformin pabg the carboxyl group of asp27 and the guanidino groups of arg51 and arg56 and was treated using b3lyp exchange-correlation function and 6-31g basis set.the mm environment consisted of residues 2-57 and 91-115 with coordinates constrained except for leu28 and phe31.

remarkably although neither metformin nor pabg exhibits transferred noe signals under our standard experimental conditions see methods iloe signals connecting the mfm methyl resonances with the pabg aromatic resonances were present.

the pfm and mfm rotation is in the opposite sense while the angles for mfm and bfm are more similar.gabel et al.page 28summary of kd and ki values.table 1aadditional ligand bound to the pabg subsite.bbuffer 100 mm trishcl 50 mm mes 50 mm acetic acid 1 mm edta 5 mm bme ph 7.0 25deg ccbuffer 20 mm tris-hcl ph  7.2 uncorrected 120 mm nacl 1 mm tcep 0.5 mm edta 0.25 mm nan3 in d2o.dan initial fit with variable dh gave a kd  26.7-11.0 mm dh  -1.1-3.2 kcalmol the large error in dh prompted an alternate fit with dh set  0.eile50 and ile61 each exhibit two resonances only one of which titrates upon mfm addition.fa non-linear global fit of all the data gives a ki of 17.9 -3.5 mm.

the nature of the interaction between the two inhibitors can be determined from the x-value at which all the lines intersect 74. the resulting a value which describes the cooperative inhibition by mfm and pabg was 3.3 - 1.3. an a value greater than 1 indicates a net antagonistic interaction between pabg and mfm although binding is not mutually exclusive - as also demonstrated by the iloe studies.

a fit of the data r2  0.992 yields a ki of 0.17 - 0.02 mm.gabel et al.page 26figure 5. iloe build-up data for mfm and ligands bound to the pabg subsitea a series of 1d noe spectra obtained at the indicated mixing times by irradiating the mfm methyl resonance at 3.04 ppm and observing the pabg aromatic resonances.

68 have observed very strong cooperativity between a pair of ligands 24-diaminopyrimidine dap and p- aminobenzoyl-l-glutamate pabg corresponding to methotrexate fragments that occupy the pteridine and pabg binding subsites of l. casei dhfr figure 3a figure s2.in contrast with the results for the l. casei enzyme the e. coli dhfr exhibits substantially lower affinity for pabg kd  7.9 mm figure s3 and the fraction of bound pabg is insufficient to produce transferred noe signals.

in contrast with mtx both biguanide structures are non-planar exhibiting a relative tilt between the two guanidino groups of  42deg for pfm and  25deg for bfm that reduces intramolecular steric conflict figure s1.interaction of metformin with ecdhfrthe affinity of metformin mfm for ecdhfr was expected to be significantly weaker than the affinity of phenformin due to its more limited ability to interact with hydrophobic residues of the active site.

double-headed arrows indicate iloe interactions.gabel et al.page 25figure 4. determination of metformin inhibition constant for ecdhfra lineweaver-burk plot for the inhibition of ecdhfr with metformin mfm.

37 demonstrating that both metformin and the bacterially-targeted dhfr inhibitor trimethoprim tmp extend the lifespan of c. elegans utilized mfm concentrations in the 50-100 mm range 2.5-5-fold above the mfm ki value for ecdhfr.

