Furthermore other groups have implicated fibroblasts in tissue damage in inflammatory diseases raising the possibility that fibroblasts from the gingiva may have opposing effects to fibroblasts from the periodontal ligament.

Surprisingly donor matched oral fibroblasts from gingival tissues or fibroblasts from peri-implant inflamed tissues were at least as active as PDLF in regulating macrophage responses to bacteria.

We hypothesized that fibroblasts originating from the PDL periodontal ligament fibroblasts PDLF play an active immunomodulatory role leading to the more limited inflammatory process around natural teeth in comparison to dental implants.

The differ- ential regulation of TNF-a secretion by fibroblasts is post-transcriptional since TNFA mRNA transcript levels were induced in macrophages to a similar degree in the absence or presence of fibroblasts.

P  0.05 P 0.01 and P 0.001 in comparison to the cytokine production by Mph in mono-culture stimulated with the same MOI a or to cytokine production byMph co-cultured with un-primed fibroblasts and stimulated with the same MOI.not upregulated by co-culture with fibroblasts.

Furthermore fibroblasts from inflamed peri-implantitis tissue PIF were the most inflammomodulatory of all oral fibroblasts tested.

The outcome for immune modulation may be influenced by the anatomical site the disease status and even the origin of different fibroblasts sub-popoulations within the same anatomical site  .Our results suggest that oral fibroblasts actively shape the inflammatory microenvironment during periodon- tal inflammation.

 Received 5 July 2016OPENOral fibroblasts modulate the macrophage response to bacterial challengeRinat Tzach-Nahman12 Rizan Nashef3 Omer Fleissig14 Aharon Palmon1 Lior 2Accepted 30 August 2017Asaf Wilensky2  Gabriel Nussbaum1Tissue damage in chronic periodontal disease is driven by the host response to a dysbiotic microbiota and not by bacteria directly.

Among chronic inflammatory diseases of the oral cavity inflammation and tissue damage around dental implants peri-implantitis is emerging as a major clinical challenge since it is more severe and less responsive to treatment compared to inflammation around natural teeth.We tested whether oral fibroblasts from the periodontal ligament PDLF which are present around natural teeth but not around dental implants actively regulate inflammatory responses to bacterial stimulation.

Although fibroblasts decreased TNF-a secretion they enhanced the ability of macrophages to phagocytose bacteria.

