The data showed that adhesion of wild-type spores could be significantly reduced by preadsorption with CotE antibodies Figure 1B.CotE Mediates Spore Binding to Mucin and Enhances ColonizationTo dissect CotE's affinity for mucus we used an ELISA-based method to examine binding of recombinant CotE protein fragments to mucin the main component of mucus as well as GlcNAc and GalNAc.

Intriguingly CotE may have a more sophisticated function and contribute directly to pathogenesis.In this article we show in vitro that CotE enables spore adhe- sion to mucus via direct binding to the mucin glycoproteins GlcNAc and GalNAc.

Surprisingly CotE increased the severity of CDI in a hamster model animals dosed with spores lacking CotE exhibited significantly delayed symp- toms of CDI.

Antibodies mouse recog- nizing the N-terminus of CotE M1-K234 have been described previously 12 while antibodies to the C-terminus of CotE were raised in mice by 3 intraperitoneal injections of rCotEC P381-F712 Supplementary Figure 1.

Therefore the pheno- types we observe for the 2 cotE mutants can be directly assigned to the absence of CotE or of course due to a pleiotropic effect eg disruption or missassembly of the spore coat resulting from the absence of an intact CotE.

Using polyclonal antisera raised in mice to the N-terminal residues 1-234 and C-terminal residues 381-712 domains of CotE we confirmed that neither mutant produced CotE Supplementary Figure 1C.

Wild-type 630spores had an ID50 of 101 whereas values for the cotE- 103 and cotEC- 102.3 mutants were 1-2 logs higher demonstrating that CotE had a role in the ability of spores to infect and colonize the host.CotE Facilitates Degradation of MucinChitin-binding proteins in bacteria can also function as muco- lytic enzymes and therefore we investigated CotE for this trait 22 23.

The Journal of Infectious Diseases MAJO R ARTICL E The Spore Coat Protein CotE Facilitates Host Colonization by Clostridium difficileHuynh A. Hong1a William T. Ferreira1a Siamand Hosseini1 Saba Anwar1 Krisztina Hitri1 Anthony J. Wilkinson2 Wilfried Vahjen3 Jurgen Zentek3 Mikhail Soloviev1 and Simon M. Cutting11School of Biological Sciences Royal Holloway University of London Surrey and 2Department of Chemistry University of York United Kingdom and 3Institute for Animal Health Freie University of Berlin GermanyClostridium difficile infection CDI is an important hospital-acquired infection resulting from the germination of spores in the intestine as a consequence of antibiotic-mediated dysbiosis of the gut microbiota.

Taken together we suggest that CotE and thus the spore plays an integral role in attachment to the gut mucosa to initiate the infection and the ensuing virulence of CDI a finding that is both important and hitherto unnoticed.METHODSStrains Reagents and General MethodsTwo wild-type strains of C. difficile were used in this work 630Derm and 630.

Absence of CotE slows progression of Clostridium difficile infection.

