once the molecule is complete ybt is released from the final cp domain of hmwp1 by a terminal thioesterase domain 20 24. although ybt biosynthesis has been elegantly characterized in vitro an untargeted survey of this pathway's prod- ucts in bacterial culture has not been reported.in this study comparative metabolomic profiling revealedescherichelin a newly appreciated cellular product of the ybt bio- synthetic pathway in e. coli and other urinary enterobacteriaceae isolates.

it is highly prevalent among clinical extrain- testinal pathogenic e. coli isolates and is also found with varying frequencies in other enterobacteriaceae including the eponymous yersinia pestis 18. yersinia hpi genes are highly upregulated during uti and ybt is detectable in patients' urine specimens 12 14 17. ybt the recognized product of yersinia hpi-positive bacteria to date has been distinguished from other e. coli siderophores by its ability to form stable cuii complexes.

ybt in the metal-free form apo and bound to aliii were among the molec- ular features with the highest loading scores as expected table 1 29. we also observed dihydroaeruginoic acid dha a known metabolite of pyochelin-producing strains of p. aeruginosa table 1 and supplemental figure 1 supplementalmaterial availableonline with this article httpsdoi.org10.1172jci92464ds1 30 31. dha is the free form of an early phosphopanthetheine-bound intermediate in both the pyochelin and ybt biosynthetic pathways 20 32. unexpectedly the molecular feature with the highest loading score was an ion with mz 307 which is lower than apo-ybt mz 482 figure 1b and table 1. like ybt the molecular feature at mz 307 herein called escherichelin was present in the wt and salicylate-complemented uti89dybts supernatants but entirely absent in dybts supernatants.

all of the strains that produced ybt also produced escherichelin.figure 2 23 35-38. a mutant lacking the yersinia hpi transcrip- tional regulator ybta also produces no ybt 38 39. deletion of ybtt a putative editing enzyme exhibits an intermediate phe- notype with reduced ybt levels supplemental figure 2 37 38 40. these isogenic mutants are not attenuated for growth in iron-restricted medium 38. among ybt-null strains extracellu- lar escherichelin was undetectable in the culture supernatants of uti89dybts dybte and dybta the 2 early biosynthetic genes and transcriptional regulator respectively.

the name escherichelin was chosen to recognize its identifi- cation as a natural product from pathogenic e. coli escheri- and itstable 2. escherichelin and ybt prevalence in urine samples from patients with uncomplicated utind strain did not grow in complete m63 so ybt production in culture could not be determined.metal chelating properties -chelin.

coli in the urinary tract secretes an antivirulence compound against p. aeruginosa 26 27. expression of the virulence-associ- ated yersinia hpi in colonizing enterobacteriaceae such as e. coli strain 83972 may thus confer both risk from ybt production and benefit escherichelin production to patients 77. engineering ane.

to determine whether escherichelin like ybt can promote iron- dependent growth in e. coli possessing yersinia hpi-encoded trans- port genes we measured uti89 growth in a previously described siderophore-dependent growth assay figure 3g 16 19. additionfigure 4. escherichelin release is suppressed in p. aeruginosa relative to e. coli.

coli strain lacking the virulence-associated papg adhesin e. coli hu2117 27. bladder colonization was established by inserting urinary catheters that had been precoated with e. coli hu2117.

in this and other studies ybt a siderophore encoded by the yersinia high pathogenicity island hpi was associated with urinary tract virulence 7 13-17.the yersinia hpi is acomplex 4-operon mobile genetic element encoding proteins involved in ybt biosynthesis import and tran- scriptional regulation.

this broad-spectrum metal- binding property enables ybt to scavenge feiii for nutritional use detoxify copper and catalyze superoxide dismutation 14 15 19. the multiple functions of ybt illustrate the importance of diversemetal ion interactions during microbial pathogenesis.conflict of interest the authors have declared that no conflict of interest exists.submitted december 22 2016 accepted august 2 2017. reference information j clin invest.

the metabolomic profiles from ybt producers wt and uti89dybts plus salicylate and the ybt nonproducer uti89dybts were compared using supervised principal compo- nent analysis-discriminant analysis pca-da figure 1a.

the upec model strains uti89 and nu14 produced both ybt and escherichelin whereas cft073 a widely used upec mod- el strain with known mutations in the yersinia hpi and the k12 strain mg1655 produced neither 33. klebsiella pneumoniae and citrobacter diversus isolates that produced ybt also produced escherichelin figure 1c.

to deter- mine whether escherichelin is similarly regulated we measured its secretion in a high-iron medium complete m63 supplemented with 16.2 mgl ferric chloride 34. the high-iron medium abol- ished escherichelin production suggesting that it is regulated by iron in a manner similar to that of ybt figure 2a.to better understand the relationship between escherichelin secretion and ybt biosynthetic genes figure 2b we screened a panel of yersinia hpi gene deletion mutants for altered esche- richelin production figure 2c.

these analyses were guided in part by previous in vitro investigations of ybt biosynthesis that noted a product with a positive-ion mz of 307 that was identified as 2-2-hydroxyphenyl-45-dihydro-24 bisthiazolyl-4-carboxylic acid abbreviated as hptt-cooh from hydroxylphenyl-thiazolyl-thiazolinyl-carboxylic acid 24 41-44. hptt-cooh is a truncated version of ybt that arises when a biosynthetic intermediate figure 2b top structure derived from salicylate and 2 cysteines is released from the first nrps protein hmwp2 irp2 and spontaneously oxidized.

these results demonstrate that escherichelin like ybt and pyochelin is a bacterial metallophore that forms feiii and cuii complexes.todeterminewhetherescherichelinbindsmetalionsinaman- ner similar to ybt and pyochelin we conducted quantum-based calculations using density functional theory dft.

