lactam sulfonamide and tetracycline resistance genes are the most frequent in wastewater 13 17. several factors in wastewater favor the spread of bacteria with antibiotic resistance increased levels of antibiotics and biocides high concentrationsof resistant bacteria and the abundance of organic and inor- ganic substrates 10 19. wwtp are reservoirs of chemicals bacteria and genes that confer antibiotic resistance 31 and treated water releases numerous bacteria resistant to antibiotics into the environment 12 20 28. some treatments of waste- water longer hydraulic residence times may improve the quality of treated water however a higher removal efficiency does not necessarily imply a significant decrease in antibiotic resistance percentages in the outflow 22.although the overall increase in arb release and arg in the environment is not a great direct risk to human health it may increase horizontal gene transfer hgt and the acquire- ment of resistance by environmental bacteria.

even though the treatment process reduced the concentration of bacteria by two orders of magnitude the wastewater treatment plant in cluj-napoca contributed to an increase in antibiotic-resistant bacteria concentrations up to 10 km downstream of its discharge in somesul mic river.key words antibiotic-resistant bacteria wastewater treatment removal rate antibiotic-resistant genes bacterial pollution sourcesbacterial resistance to antibiotics is a natural phenomenon that has been found in various environmental sites apparently free of antibiotics 24 or with trace amounts of antibiotics of a natural synthetic origin 27 33. even if antibiotic concen- trations in the environment are not very high in the range of mg l-1 or ng l-1 5 together with the continuous synthesis of new antibiotics and their release into ecosystems new mechanisms of resistance to antibiotics have increased and thus bacteria have developed resistance to multiple antibiotics 3.although antibiotic-resistant bacteria arb have not emerged as a result of antibiotic discovery a relationship has been reported between higher quantity use and the emergence of arb 16 29. the main antibiotic sources in the environ- ment are unused antibiotics and their unprocessed removal the large quantities used for veterinary purposes the manure of birds and animals that end up in the soil and ground water feces of human origin and wastewater treatment plants wwtp 19. antibiotic concentrations do not correlate with antibiotic resistance genes arg in the environment bacteria with antibiotic resistance already present in the environment are more important than the presence of its active components 14. among the various sources of antibiotics in the environment wwtp have attracted particular interest.

bacterial abundance in the s1 sample 103 was similar to that reported previously 30. on the other hand just one tetracy- cline concentration was tested and the river water and waste- water bacterial communities have different compositions 18. among the genes for resistance to tetracycline teto and tetw were the most commonly found in feces and water samples 36. therefore wwtp clearly contributed to theenrichment of river water with arg and arb 18.tetracycline class antibiotic concentrations in wastewater from romania vary between 110 and 146 mg l-1 23 within the limits identified in other studies but were below the limit of detection in effluents.

the inti1 gene has recently been proposed to be a marker for monitoring pollutants for various reasons it is directly linked to the genes that confer resistance to antibiotics chlorinated compounds and heavy metals it occurs in a large variety of bacteria and its abundance varies with environ- mental conditions 9. the inti1 gene was selected because it is an indicator of exogenic pollution factors and its abundance correlates with the genes that confer resistance to antibiotics such as the tet and sul1 genes 35. the aim of the present study was to assess the abundance and extent of removal of arb and the clinically significant inti1 gene at the new modern treatment plant in cluj-napoca romania.materials and methodssample collection and processinganalyses were performed on water samples from 4 sites s1--the forward and reverse primers and 3 ml of the template.

the treatment plant contributed to increases in total bacteria in somesul mic river by 2 orders of magnitude.the number of cultivable bacteria with resistance to sul- fonamide was higher in the inflow 107 and this number was reduced in the outflow after the treatment by 2 orders of magnitude 105. river water had the lowest concentration of bacteria resistant to sulfonamide 103. upstream and down- stream samples showed similar values p0.05.wwtp is not the only cause of bacterial resistance toantibiotics because unexpectedly we found higher concen- trations of bacteria resistant to tetracycline 103 in the upstream sample s1.

althoughraw water had higher concentrations of arb their abundance was reduced compared to other studies 6 20 22 36. these results may be attributed to the concentration of tetracycline tested being too high or the inability of bacteria to grow on r2a agar bacteria in river water have a natural origin while those in wastewater are more likely to be of a fecal origin 8. this bacterial resistance is of a natural origin there are no other main pollution sources upstream in somesul mic river.

if the microbiological load is high the water from the secondary decanter is directed to a tertiary tank for advanced treatment.physicochemical analysesdata from physical and chemical measurements of water samples are shown in table 2. the values of dissolved oxygen in water indicated an ascending gradient from s1 7.12 to s3sequence 5'-3'target geneforwardtable 1. primers used for qpcr.amplicon sizebpannealingtemperature qpcrreferencetggcgtatctataatgttgac gggcgtatccacaatgttaac ctcacrrcacgagctgac tacccgagagcttggcaccca tgaagttccgccgcaaggctcgfig.

bacteria cell counts in raw water 108 were 3 orders of magnitude higher than those in upstream river water 105. after the water treatment the total number of bacteria decreased by one order of magnitude but was still higher than that in the upstream river sample significant differences were observed between upstream and downstream samples p0.05.

in terms of quantity the findings of several studies showed that arb and arg concentrations do not change in soils irrigated with treated water 7 21 however long-term irrigation may increase the relative concentrations of some arg 4. although irrigation with recycled water is an excellent solution to water scarcity the possibility of strains of clinical significance reaching soil and the likelihood of finding these bacteria on vegetables representing a higher risk for consumers cannot be ruled out.in conclusion the results of the present study showed that wwtp in cluj-napoca markedly reduced total arg and arb.

the resistance to sulfamethoxazole and tetracycline and some of their representative resistance genes sul1 teto and tetw were assessed in this study.

even if the gene for inti1 does not confer direct resistance todifferent classes of pollutants it favors the acquisition and spread of multiple genes that confer resistance to various compounds.

5. total and log removal rates of arb heterotrophic--total heterotrophic bacteria smx--bacteria with resistance to sulfamethoxazoletet--bacteria resistant to tetracycline and arg copy numbers.between the concentration of sulfonamide and bacteria with resistance to this antibiotic but not for tetracycline 6 17 whereas others did not 32.our results showed for the first time a strong correlation between the concentrations of the clinically significant inti1 gene and sul1 gene r0.95 teto gene r0.96 and tetw gene r0.96.

2001. molecular ecology of tetracycline resistance development and validation of primers for detection of tetracycline resistance genes encoding ribosomal protec- tion proteins.

the main purpose of the present study was to assess the removal degree of bacteria with resistance to antibiotics and identify the contribution of a wastewater treatment plant to the microbiota of somesul mic river water in cluj county.

3. abundance of 16s rrna integrase-1 and antibiotic resistance genes in water samples.

