approximately 450000 cases and 29000 deaths each year are attributed to this pathogen in the us alone 4. as a result the centers for disease control and prevention has identified c. difficile as an urgent threat to human health 5. this opportunistic pathogen exploits a reduction in gut microbiota diversity that often follows broad spectrum antibiotic use to proliferate release toxins and cause life-threatening colitis 6. although the toxins have been studied in great detail other aspects of c. difficile virulence including colonization of the gut are not well understood 6. the c. difficile cell surface is covered by a paracrystalline surface layer s- layer largely comprised of slpa and sparsely interspersed by 28 related cell wall proteins 7. the s-layer precursor slpa is proteolytically processed on the cell surface to generate the low and high molecular weight s-layer proteins lmw and hmw slps.

av-cd291.2 had a modified killing spectrum that included all hypervirulent rt027 c. difficile strains tested blocked c. difficile colonization in a mouse model of spore transmission and did not disrupt the resident gut microbiota 12. these properties encourage the further development of avidocin-cds as oral human therapeutics.here we further characterize the av-cd291.2 mechanism of action and describe an expanded panel of avidocin-cds that cover all clinically relevant c. difficile strain types using newly identified bacteriophage rbps.

diffocins produced by c. difficile to kill competing c. difficile strains 13. diffocins resemble myoviridae phage tails and consist of a contractile sheath nanotube core baseplate and tail fiber structures.

these data conclusively demonstrate that the polymorphic slpa acts as the binding receptor for each of the avidocin-cds tested and therefore the corresponding bacteriophage rbps.s-layer null mutants are abnormally sensitive to innate immune effectorsbacterial s-layers serve many critical cellular functions 7. given its location on the cell surface the s-layer has been proposed to act as a molecular sieve to selectively limit exposure of the underlying cell envelope to large biomolecules such as the innate immune effector lysozyme 18. until now analysis of c. difficile s-layer function has been hampered by an inability to isolate slpa-deficient mutants 19. while c. difficile is highly resistant to killing by this enzyme resistance has been attributed to extensive peptidoglycan deacetylation 20. to determine if the s-layer also plays a role in lysozyme resistance we treated exponentially growing bacteria with a high concentration of lysozyme 500 mgml and monitored the effects on growth fig.

if such a cocktail of avidocin-cds were to be administered a point of care diagnostic would only need to detect the presence of c. difficile to guide treatment decisions.the strong selective pressure afforded by av-cd291.2 allowed isolation of the first spontaneous c. difficile s-layer null mutants.

we recently described the prototypic avidocin- cd av-cd291.2 that specifically kills c. difficile ribotype 027 strains and prevents colonization of mice.

using newly identified phage rbps we constructed a panel of new avidocin-cds that kill c. difficile isolates in an slct-dependent manner confirming the s-layer as the receptor in every case.

avidocin-cds have significant therapeutic potential for the treatment and prevention of c. difficile infection cdi given their exquisite specificity for the pathogen.to whom correspondence should be addressed gregory r. govoni ggovonsgmail.com robert p. fagauthor contributionsd.s.

furthering this need is the realization that dysbiosis caused by broad-spectrum antibiotic use contributes to the prevalence of diseasesdisorders such as inflammatory bowel disease obesity and gastrointestinal infections 1. strategies to overcome these threats include use of narrow spectrum or precision agents and the design of drugs that target virulence instead of in vitro viability 2 3. one pathogen for which alternative treatment approaches are needed is c. difficile.

the slps interact with high-affinity to form a heterodimer the basic unit of the mature s-layer 8.the slpa gene is located within a highly variable s-layer cassette consisting of 5 genes 13 distinct s-layer cassette types slcts have been described to date 9. the variation that defines individual cassette types is largely confined to the lmw slp-encoding region of slpa 4. the hmw slp region is highly conserved and includes the cell wall binding motifs that anchor the s-layer to the cell wall 10. the s-layer and several associated cell wall proteins have been implicated in colonization of host tissues 7 and in stimulation of the host immune response via tlr4 signaling 11.whereas c. difficile is not significantly resistant to the frontline antibiotics used to treat cdis vancomycin metronidazole and fidaxomicin the use of these antibiotics causes further disruption of the resident microbiota leading to frequent cdi relapse 6. to be safe and effective new agents to treat and prevent cdis must not harm the diverse gut microbiota and the colonization resistance it provides.

c. difficile bacteriophages and prophage insertions make it possible to retarget killing 12 15-17. these modified bacteriocins are known as avidocin-cds.

we isolated two spontaneous mutants of c. difficile strain r20291 ribotype 027 that were resistant to killing by av-cd291.2.

taken together these observations clearly demonstrate that the slct-4 variant of slpa is the cell surface target of av-cd291.2.sensitivity to all avidocin-cds is slpa allele-specificthese observations suggested that each variant of slpa may serve as a specific receptor for additional c. difficile bacteriophage rbps.

in an attempt to expand avidocin-cd coverage beyond slct-4 we constructed ten new avidocin-cds using predicted bacteriophage rbps mined from the genome sequences of c. difficile clinical isolates or newly isolated bacteriophages table s1.

ribotype 027 and sensitivity to av-cd291.2 slct-1 of phi-147 propagating strain and sensitivity to av-cd147.1 12 15 16. preparations of diffocin-4 scaffold for all avidocin-cds av-cd291.2 and each of the new avidocin-cds were tested for killing activity on a panel of 62 c. difficile isolates containing all 13 known slcts and a newly identified 14th slct fig.

