the proliferation of biofilms in many environmental settings may be the result of selective processes resulting in many ecological advantages of the biofilm mode of life such as their inherent resistance to antibioticsand difficulty in removing them from a contaminated surface.biofilms are everywhere and have a major impact on numerous domains of society the majority of bacterial infections are biofilm-related they are responsible for persistent contamination in the food and dairy industryand fouling of water systems.the eps accounts for the largest part of the dry mass of biofilms up to 90 and is responsible for the formation and maintenance of biofilms and their three-dimensional architecture.

however on the basis of results published by others using terminal velocity of particles the biofilm density was calculated 1.14 gcm3 in biofilms of waste- water.in a later study it was calculated that the wet density of biofilms of mixed filamentous bacteria and bacillus ranges between 1 and 1.1 gcm3 corresponding to dry densities between0 and 0.05 gcm3 respectively.

p. aeruginosa biofilm colonies growing in a flow cell were measured in vivo without disrupting the flow conditions or damaging the samples meaning that biofilms can be measured to obtain dynamic information on the change in stiffness.brillouin imaging does not require labelling and has significant potential for further studies of mechanical properties of complex biofilms in natural industrial or medical settings.

therefore the observed values of ub are propor- tional to the brillouin modulus m which hence represent a measure of stiffness even though it does not seem to be possible to assign an absolute metric to m without the exact knowledge of the local material density.to further support our argument we only found a single study that attempts to make spatial differentiation of density within biofilms in which the authors measured 1.001-1.003 gcm3 at the top region of biofilms and 1.01-1.02 gcm3 at the deeper regions.that is a relative change of 1.3 that occurs over the spatial extent of several hundred of micrometres to a few millimetres their biofilms were much thicker than those in our study.

additionally in future studies brillouin micro- scopy could work in tandem with other spectroscopic techniques that provide information on local diffusivity porosity and viscosity towards the better understanding of the role of mechanical properties in biofilm processes such signalling and transport of nutrients within biofilm communities.methodsbrillouin spectroscopyspontaneous brillouin scattering or simply brillouin scattering refers to the inelastic scattering of light by thermal vibrations present in the sample termed acoustic phonons that shifts the frequency of the light by an amount equal to that of the ultrasonic wave.in isotropic materials the spectral shift brillouin frequency shift ub is proportional to the velocity of sound v in the sample according toub 14 2n v sindth2th1where n the refractive index l the optical wavelength of illumination and th the scattering angle which is set by the design of the experiment.in isotropic and homogeneous materials the speed of sound v can be related to the mechanical properties of the sample via v mrwhere m is the brillouin modulus and r is the density.

this study demonstrates the utility of brillouin microscopy for investigating at high resolution the mechanical properties of the interior parts of living growing biofilm colonies.resultscharacterisation of the stiffness of p. aeruginosa biofilmwe used brillouin microscopy together with fluorescence imaging to image a gfp-tagged p. aeruginosa pao1 biofilms.

aeruginosa biofilms growing in a defined flow cell.we have clearly observed distinct patterns in the internal stiffness of colonies indicative of the highly dynamic and heterogeneous nature of biofilms.for most 88 of the examined biofilm colonies the centres of the colony were stiffer than their peripheries corresponding to a model of growth on the outer edges of the colonies with a denser core.contrastingly we found some colonies in which the stiffness decreased towards their centres and within such colonies rotating bacteria were frequently observed video s.2.

it should be noted however that we cannot differentiate with certainty whether the pixel-to-pixel differences of brillouin signal are due to absence of bacterial cells or due to different properties of the eps matrix itself.limitations of this study include the restriction of measure- ments to colonies that had distinct boundaries visible by widefield microscopy whereas the flat undifferentiated portions of the biofilms or the biofilm substratum were not investigated.

given the emerging complexity of the biofilm mode of life further optimisation of brillouin microscopy along with stringent experi- mental procedures are required to unravel the mechanisms driving biofilms.

108 10839-10846 2011.stoodley p. lewandowski z. boyl j. d.  lappin-scott h. m. structural deformation of bacterial biofilms caused by short-term fluctuations in fluid shear an in situ investigation of biofilm rheology.

mechanical properties of the superficial biofilm layer deter- mine the architecture of biofilms.

for example in pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms psl an exopolysaccharide contributes to the stiffening and formation of the matrix.as biofilms colonies grow the localisation of psl changes leading to softening of the colony centres and the formation of hollow colonies.

s4 which arecommonly used as model synthetic matrices.it should be noted that biofilms are much more complex systems than hydrogel beads hence the quantitative results obtained from the measurements in the beads are not--and should not be--used as a calibration look-up table to infer the composition of biofilms.

aeruginosa an opportunistic bacterial pathogen commonly used as a model organism for biofilm formation.

historically in the first applications high-finesse scanning fabry-perot interferometers or angle-dispersive etalons were1centre for bioimaging sciences national university of singapore singapore 117557 singapore 2nus graduate school for integrative sciences and engineering national university of singapore singapore 117557 singapore 3blackett laboratory department of physics imperial college london prince consort road london sw7 2bz united kingdom 4imperial college london department of life sciences mrc centre for molecular bacteriology and infection south kensington campus flowers building sw7 2az london united kingdom 5singapore centre for environmental life sciences engineering and the school of biological sciences nanyang technological university singapore singapore 637551 singapore and 6department of biological sciences and department of chemistry national university of singapore singapore 117346 singaporecorrespondence p. torok received 12 april 2017 revised 3 august 2017 accepted 8 august 2017probing biofilm mechanical propertiesa karampatzakis et al.2fig.

