the experiment was done in triplicate each with three repeats.the culinary herb essential oils with potent antimicrobial property especially against the planktonic s. mutans kpsk2 were finally examined for their anti-plaque effects against s. mutans biofilm which include preventive effect on the formation of bacterial biofilm in vitro and reductive effect on the pre-established biofilm with minor modification 20.anti-plaque effects against s. mutans biofilmpreventive effect on the formation of s. mutans biofilm in vitro 20 a 96-well plate was firstly coated with 50ul of varied concentrations of herbal essential oils ranging from mic 2xmic to 4xmic 0.2 chlorhexidine as well as bhi with 3 sucrose bhi-s and was designated as tests positive and negative untreated substratum controls respectively then the plate was incubated at37oc in 5 co2 incubator for different time-intervals 1 2 4 and 24 hours.

the mic and mbc values of the selected herbal essential oils were illustrated in tablefig-5.anti-plaque effects against s. mutans biofilmpreventive effect on the formation of s. mutans biofilm in vitro after the substratum was primed with 0.25 chlorhexidine mouthwash the formation of s. mutans biofilm was affected differently ranging from 60 inhibition 24-h priming down to 30 inhibition 1-h priming.

the present finding has restated the previous report that this oil contained preventive effect against the formation of s. mutans biofilm 29. relatively weaker degree of preventive effect against the formation of s. mutans biofilm was found in other essential oils extracted from sweet basil peppermint spearmint sweet fennel black pepper and kaffir lime compared to the one of cinnamon bark oil.

previous report has demonstrated that cinnamon extract contained glucosyltransferase adherence-inhibition effect on s. mutans 30.all tested essential oils demonstrated reductive effect on the s. mutans biofilm pre-established in vitro apart from their preventive effect against the formation of such cariogenic biofilm.

the reductive effect against the in vitro established s. mutans biofilm of these culinary herb essential oils only depended on the exposure time.conclusion cinnamon and sweet basil essential oils with impressive in vitro anti-cariogenic bacteria and anti- plaque effects may be proposed as alternative and effective supplements to promote oral health status.keywords antimicrobial activity cariogenic bacteria anti-plaque effectsintroductiondental caries affects directly every age group worldwide particularly in developing countries.

cinnamon bark essential oil expressed the strongest inhibitory effect against s. mutans mic of 0.08 vv and l. casei mic of 0.16 vv whereas the weakest effect was found in kaffir lime essential oil mic values of 2.5 and 5.0 vv for s. mutans and l. casei respectively.

mutans biofilm a 24 hours in vitro-established s. mutans biofilm mass was reduced by 35 and 19 after the bacterial biofilm was treated with 0.25 chlorhexidine for 24 hours and one hour respectively.

doi 10.7860jcdr201728327.10668in vitro anti-cariogenic plaque effects of essential oils extracted from culinary herbskornsit wiwattanarattanabut1 suwan choonharuangdej2 theerathavaj srithavaj3abstractintroduction cariogenic bacteria including mutans streptococci and lactobacilli are partly but significantly involved in dental caries development.

an effective prevention strategy against dental caries is to decrease the accumulation of this microbiota either in planktonic or in biofilm form.aim to examine the antimicrobial and anti-plaque effects of some culinary herbs spices so the herbs are plausibly used as alternative and effective herbal plaque control supplements to promote good oral health.materials and methods essential oils extracted from sweet basil ocimum basilicum cinnamon bark cinnamomum zeylanicum sweet fennel foeniculum vulgare kaffir lime citrus hystrix black pepper piper nigrum peppermint mentha piperita and spearmint mentha spicata were primarily examined for their antimicrobial activities against the cariogenic bacteria streptococcus mutans kpsk2 and lactobacillus casei using the agar disk diffusion and broth microdilution methods respectively.

up to 80 of s. mutans biofilm was retarded to form on the substratum primed with these spice essential oils especially cinnamon oil.

several reports clearly demonstrate that these culinary herbs contain antioxidant anti-carcinogenic and antimicrobial properties especially against medically important microorganisms 11-16. however there are relatively few studies regarding their antimicrobial property against oral microflora related to dental caries development 17. an investigation of the inhibitory effect of these culinary herb essential oils against planktonic floating and biofilm forms of the caries-related microorganisms mutans streptococci and lactobacilli is required before the herbs may be proposed as naturally derived plaque control agents to promote oral health status.

this experimental in vitro study was carried out during june 2015 to august 2016.antimicrobial effect against planktonic cariogenic bacteriaall selected herbal essential oils were screened for their anti- microbial activity by agar disk diffusion method 18. briefly s. mutans kpsk2 and l. casei clinical strains were freshly sub-cul-tured on bhi agar and incubated at 37oc with 5 co2 for 48 hours.

reductive effect of the tested herbal essential oils against the pre-established s. mutans biofilm was interpolated to be the percentage of bacterial biofilm being disrupted by using the equation described below.

influence of the culinary herb essential oil concentration and exposure time on the anti-plaque efficacy was further analysed by two way analysis of variances and tukey's multiple comparison tests at significance level of 0.05 using spss program version 18.0.resultsantimicrobial effect against planktonic cariogenic bacteriaall tested herbal essential oils at concentration of 20 vv except black pepper displayed different degrees of inhibitory activity against both s. mutans kpsk2 and l. casei through the agar disk diffusion method.

essential oils extracted from either peel or leaf of kaffir lime expressed the weakest antimicrobial activity with mics and mbcs of 2.5 and 5.0 vv against s. mutans kpsk2 and l. casei respectively.

