ehigh-resolution analyses reveal structural diversity patterns of microbial communities in chromite ore processing residue copr contaminated soilsxiaobo min   yangyang wang   liyuan chai   zhihui yang   qi liao   a institute of environmental science and engineering school of metallurgy and environment central south university 410083 changsha chinab national engineering research center for heavy metals pollution control and treatment 410083 changsha chinac college of environment and planning henan university 475004 kaifeng chinah i g h l i g h t sg r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c t the influence of heavy metals on soil microbiota of copr sites at large- scale spatial distribution.total cr content was the principal factor shaping the dissimilarity of soil microbiota in the copr sites.major dissimilarity contributors micrococcaceae delftia and strepto- phyta have crvi-resistant andor reducing capability.micrococcaceae delftia and strepto- phyta were dominant in the high to- tal cr group.a r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 30 january 2017 received in revised form 15 may 2017accepted 18 may 2017available online 21 may 2017 handling editor jim lazorchakkeywordsmicrobial communities 16s rrnamiseq sequencingchromite ore processing residue copr heavy metalsa b s t r a c t to explore how heavy metal contamination in chromite ore processing residue copr disposal sites determine the dissimilarities of indigenous microbial communities 16s rrna gene miseq sequencing and advanced statistical methods were applied.

the analyses of mrt abt and mantel test had drawn a similar conclusion that total cr content affiliated with crvi was the principal factor shaping the differences between the soil microbial communities in the three copr sites and other metals such as pb cd and zn were also important to the communities.the percentage of criii in copr is much more than crvi .

it well explained that the total cr content affiliated with crvi was the principal factor shaping the differences between the soil mi- crobial communities in the three copr sites although crvi is much more toxic than criii.conclusionschromite ore processing residue copr disposal sites have been severely contaminated by heavy metals which provide niches to deeply investigate the interactions between microbial commu- nity and heavy metals especially chromium.

however it is a challenge to understand structural and functional diversity of mi- crobial communities for their complicacy and mutability.numbers of studies have revealed that elevated heavy metals and metalloids exert strong selective pressure to indigenous mi- crobial communities in soils with traditional methods  .

the results of analysis of variance anova indicated that the microbial communities of the high group had significantly lesser structural diversity than of the low group at species level p 0.021 0.05 while no significant difference was geographically found p 0.857. previous studies witnessed that high chromium con- tent decreased biomass activity and diversity of the indigenous microbial communities and changed their structure in thecontaminated soils a. howeverthe values of shannon index indicated that the microbial diversity of the long-term heavy-metal contaminated soils virtually reha- bilitated .

in addition the multivariate regression tree mrt aggregated boosted tree abt and mantel test revealed that total cr content affiliated with crvi was the principal factor shaping the dissimilarities between the soil microbial communities in the copr sites.

our findings provide a deep insight of the in- fluence of these heavy metals on the microbial communities in the copr disposal sites and will facilitate bioremediation on such site.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.corresponding author.

here aiming to intensively demonstrate the shadow of heavy metals on the microbial communities in the contaminated soils we utilized the illumina miseq platform to investigate the 16s rrna genes of the microbiota in three geographically different copr disposal sites in yunnan shanxi and henan province china respectively.

the results provide an initial deep insight of the influence of heavy metals on microbial communities in the soils of copr disposal sites at large-scale spatial distribution with greater variability in physical and geochemical attributes and are helpful for the bioremediation on such site by stimulating the indigenous copr-distinctive micro- biomes.

therefore the elevated metals such as cr cd pb and hg in the copr soil samples may contribute to select the resistant bacteria that dominated such environment.the analysis of similarities anosim revealed a significantdifference of microbial communities between the low and high groups p 0.008. the non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds analysis was conducted to visualize the split between thetwo groups by computing the relationship between the environ- mental parameters and the otu frequencies.

therefore total cr content including crvi was the crucial force shaping the microbial communities in the soils samples of the copr disposal sites.aggregated boosted tree is comprised of a collection of boostedtrees each of which is grown on a cross-validation subset of the data and is able to reduce prediction error relative to boosted trees .

to explore microbialtolerance and evolution mechanisms to heavy metals further ge- netic and metagenomic studies for microbial communities of the soils from copr disposal sites are necessary.acknowledgementsthe authors gratefully acknowledge the national natural sci- ence foundation for young scientists of china 51304250 key scientific research project of hunan province china 2016sk2004 and central south university postdoc foundation 120982 for their financial support.appendix a. supplementary datasupplementary data related to this article can be found at .references e. e. e.ee e.a fl e. e. e. e. ee e. e. ee.

the concen- trations of crvi in soil and ground water in some copr disposal sites are up to thousand times of the limits of the chinese envi- ronmental quality standard for soils gb15618-1995 and of the chinese quality standard for ground water gbt14848-93 respectively  .recently studies on microorganisms in copr disposal sites focus on isolating crvi-reducing bacteria and bioremediation of the contaminated soils by indigenous orand foreign bacteria in situex situ  .

the results of analyses of variance anova similarities anosim and non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds showed that the structural diversity of the microbial communities in the samples with high total chromium cr content more than 300 mg kg-1 high group were significantly lesser than in the low group less than 90 mg kg-1 regardless of their geographical distribution.

0045-6535c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionnumerous microbial communities inhabit in soil ecosystems in which they play integral and unique roles in the biogeochemical cycles .

