are nowadays recognized for their beneficial effects on the development of cheese flavour and are considered as an integral part of the natural mi- crobiota of many traditional types of cheese however some strains may present an emerging threat due to the enterococcal virulence determinants that are able to cause infections in humans 35. over the last three decades epidemiological data have noted the emergence of partic- ular ecotypes of enterococci as leading nosocomial patho- gens and they have arisen to become a major cause of hu- man diseases especially in immunocompromised patients 6. their plasmid and transposon-mediated resistance to tetracycline erythromycin chloramphenicol and glyco- peptides is considered particularly problematic since it leads to the increased number of infections related to the acquired antimicrobial resistance of enterococci 6. their capacity to exchange genetic material by conjugation is well documented 7 and it can take place in gi tract where genes coding for resistance to antibiotics and viru- lence factors can be transferred 5. as enterococci are usually present at fairly high levels in ready-to-eat cheese products 89 they may have significant influence on consumers' health and as such their safety aspect should be carefully evaluated.istrian cheese is a hard type of artisan raw milk cheese that is manufactured at home on small scale on the whole istrian peninsula without the addition of start- er cultures 10. it is characterized by ripening of 90-120 days.

the recovery and persistence of enterococci in some types of cheese during ripening can be attributed to their wide range of growth temperatures and their tolerance to ph and salt 3. all 35 representative strains tested in this study were able to grow at 10 and 45 degc in the presence of 4 and 6.5  nacl as well as at ph5 and 9.6 which is in line with the high adaptability of enterococci to harsh en- vironmental conditions.a rapid decrease of milk ph is essential for coagula- tion and is therefore a crucial step in the cheese manufac- turing process.

45 who detected 62  of esp-positive strains 57  of which being of food origin versus 22  from clinical samples n164.virulence traits involved in the production of the cy- tolysin cyla cylb and cylm are one of the most studied virulence traits associated with enterococci and are usu- ally detected in low number of isolates 46. of all entero-table 3. detection of virulence determinantsrepresentativenstrainn totalvirulence determinantcocci from istrian cheese cytolysin components cylm cylb and cyla were present in 51.14 15.34 and 19.88  of strains respectively which is high in comparison with other studies 4446.the genes gele and cpd associated with toxin produc- tion and sex pheromones were also reported to be com- monly found in commensal isolates 31. the sex pherom- one determinants cpd and cob occurred with the frequency of 61.17 and 48.48  respectively and gelatinase gele gene was present in 40.34  of our enterococcal isolates.the widespread occurrence of adhesion-associated protein in enterococci irrespective of origin and species allocation is reported in many food and clinical isolates45 and was confirmed in our study with 77.65  efaafs-and 81.25  efaafm-positive enterococci.overall e. faecalis strains harboured 56.70  more virulence genes than the tested e. faecium strains.

this implies a reduction of the number of strains possessing multiple virulence genes or virulence genes in general rather than correlation to the total number of enterococci as in milk samples the lowest cfu count and the highest number of virulence determinants was noticed.although enterococci can induce haemolytic reac- tion none of the 35 tested strains in this study were found to cause haemolysis.food that is not heat treated before consumption e.g.

species of the genus enterococcus are intrinsically re- sistant to a wide variety of antimicrobials including ce- phalosporins low levels of aminoglycosides lincomycine and quinupristindalfopristin 744. however enterococ- ci efficiently acquire and transmit antibiotic-resistant genes via mobile genetic elements as conjugative plas- mids and transposons 51 which is pivotal in the dissem- ination and persistence of antimicrobial resistance in en- terococci.in the current study only 0.76  of strains were non- resistant to any of the tested antibiotics 7.57  of strains were resistant to one antibiotic and 7.95  of the strains were resistant to two antibiotics while others 83.72  were multiresistant table 4. none of the strains were re- sistant to penicillin 10 mg ampicillin 10 mg and ampi- cillinsulbactam 30 mg. the vast majority of strains were resistant to clindamycin 2 and 10 mg 92.80 and 63.07  respectively streptomycin 10 mg 82.00  and ri- fampicin 5 mg 72.35  while total of 28.41  of strains were resistant to chloramphenicol 10 mg. a considerable number of strains were resistant to critically important antibiotics such as tetracycline 5 and 30 mg 43.56 and17.99  respectively erythromycin 5 and 15 mg 35.79 and 29.35  respectively and vancomycin 5 mg 23.48. a high frequency of resistance to erythromycin and tetracycline in enterococci from various foods was also re- ported in europe canada turkey and tunisia 3552-54. the frequency of vancomycin-resistant enterococci in food is mostly low and varied between 0-25  6 and higher resistance to vancomycin in our study although of low concentration has to be considered as vancomycin is one of the few alternatives in treating enterococcal infections.with respect to the genes responsible for resistance to tetracycline tetk tetl tetm teto and tets vancomycin vana and vanb and erythromycin erma and ermb only tetm gene could be detected in the analyzed strains.

the tetm gene is the most frequently detected in tetracycline--resistant enterococci worldwide and it is known to be mainly based on the transfer of tn916-type transposons 55.conclusionour study confirmed the presence of enterococci as a major part of the indigenous core microbiota of istrian cheese during fermentation and ripening with enterococ- cus faecalis and e. faecium being the predominant species.

despite the low and variable presence of enterococci in milk 3.65-2.93 log cfuml highly comparable enterococcal populations were established after 30 days of cheese ripening 7.96-0.80 log cfug confirming enterococcus spp.

as indigenous members of the gi tract enterococci can have beneficial effect on human health by balancing gut microbiota therefore they may also act as probiotic bacteria 1.enterococcus spp.

during the ripening of istrian cheese the number of enterococci reached up to 108 per g when assessed by real-time pcr 11. they are also found to be one of the dominant bacterial popula- tions during ripening when denaturing gradient gel elec- trophoresis dgge or next-generation sequencing ap- proach were applied 1112. although total microbial diversity of istrian cheese is analysed in details by cul- ture-independent methods such as molecular sequenc- ing-based assays did not allow distinguishing among en- terococcus species e. faecalis e. faecium andor e. durans or providing information on their intraspecies variability.

due to the bivalent effect of enterococci on food and hu- man health there is a need for their detailed characteriza- tion not only at the species but also at the strain level.

enterococci that were not affiliated to e. faecalis or e. faecium species were additionally amplified and se- quenced using the universal bacterial primer sets 27f and 1401r designed by lane 16 and nubel at al.

post hoc tukey's honestly significant difference hsd test was used to as- certain whether there were significant differences between the results of samples from different stages of cheese ma- nufacturing and ripening.results and discussionenumeration and identification of enterococcidespite the available data in other countries studies on prevalence and safety issue of enterococci in spontane- ously fermented cheese in croatia are limited.

in order to improve the knowledge on the role of enterococci in the cheese ripening process and their possible influence on public health as well as to select for potential adjunct starter cultures total viable count and isolation of entero- cocci from 6 different farms during the ripening of istrian cheese were carried out.

the lowest count of enterococci was noticed as expected in milk 3.65-2.93 log cfu ml and after 30 days of ripening it reached the maxi- mum value 7.96-0.80 log cfug.

at the end of ripening 120 days the average number of enterococci was 6.21-0.98 log cfug fig.

