closed bar placebo group open bar lcs group.data were analysed by the unpaired student's t-test.levels were significantly lower in the lcs group than in the placebo group at 8 weeks tc p0.023 ldl-c p0.022 non-hdl-c p0.008.

the glycaemic control markers remained constant throughout the study in the placebo group suggesting that the changes in glycaemic control markers observed in the lcs group were associated with the consumption of lcs.

however the statistically significant reduction in ga levels in the lcs group compared with that in the placebo group and the findings of the stratified analyses suggest that lcs has the potential to exert favourable effects on glycaemic control.

indicated that lcs supplementation suppresses the decline of the insulin sensitivity induced by high-fat overfeeding in healthy adults some other clinical trials have found that probiotic treatment improves glycaemic control in type 2 dm patients however to our knowledge no clinical trials have been conducted to investigate the effects of probiotic treatment on these metabolic abnormalities in prediabetic subjects characterised by post-load hyperglycaemia who are at high risk of dm and cardiovascular disease.therefore the present study aimed to investigate the effects of lcs on glycaemic and lipidic control in obese prediabetic subjects by evaluating post-load pg levels and other glycaemic and lipidic control markers.materials and methodstest beveragethe test beverage was milk fermented with lcs yit 9029 which was obtained from the culture collection research laboratory of yakult central institute tokyo japan.

these findings suggest that consumption of lcs has the potential to improve glycaemic control especially in subjects with relatively advanced glucose intolerance who are at high risk of both dm and cardiovascular disease.previous studies demonstrated that lcs improved post- load hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance in an obese mouse model induced by feeding a high-fat diet and prevented the exacerbation of glycaemic control and decline of insulin action induced by overfeeding a high-fat diet in a clinical trial involving caucasian subjects in contrast the consumption of lcs did not affect the markers of insulinfig.

lcs is able to assimilate cholesterol in vitro and oral administration of the cell wall components of lcs was found to increase faecal sterol secretion and suppress increases in the serum tc levels in cholesterol-fed rats thus lcs has a potential to prevent hypercholesterolaemia via reduction of dietary cholesterol absorption by binding andor assimilating sterols in obese prediabetic subjects.there are some limitations of the present study.

hence further studies are required to clarify the beneficial effects of lcs on glycaemic control in a larger number of subjects with advanced glucose intolerance andor insulin resistance and to clarify the mechanism of action of lcs using animal models andor clinical trials.in conclusion the findings of the present study suggest that lcs may favourably affect metabolic abnormalities in obese prediabetic subjects though the effects on glycaemic control may be limited.acknowledgementswe thank the staff of ttc co. ltd. for their help with subject management data collection and statistical analysis.

the reduction in glycoalbumin levels was statistically significantly greater in the lcs group than in the placebo group p0.030.

stratified analyses revealed significantly improved 1-hr post-load pg and glycoalbumin levels in the lcs group compared with the placebo group among subjects with severe glucose intolerance 2-hr post-load pg levels higher than the median at baseline p0.036 and p0.034 respectively.

in terms of lipidic outcomes total low-density lipoprotein and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were significantly lower in the lcs group than in the placebo group p0.023 p0.022 and p0.008 respectively.

obese prediabetic subjects n100 who met the criteria were enrolled and randomly allocated to the lcs group n50 or placebo group n50 using a computer-generated random number sequence.

considering that lcs would reduce pg levels by 20 mgdl and that the standard deviation of the changes would be 35 mgdl we calculated that 48 subjects were needed in each group to detect any differences between the groups with a power of 80 and a significance level of 5. this number was increased to 50 per group to accommodate for anticipated dropouts.statistical analysiscontinuous data are shown as the means - standard error.

changes in bodypacomposition and blood pressure during the study are shownlcs l. casei strain shirota yit 9029 fpg fasting plasma glucose ogtt oral glucose tolerance test auc area under the curve tc total cholesterol ldl-c low-density lipoprotein cholesterol hdl-c high-density lipoprotein cholesterol non-hdl-c non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol tag triacylglycerol.ap values analysed by the unpaired student's t-test.in ga levels was observed in the lcs group when compared with the placebo group p0.030 fig.

the p values were as follows bp0.036 cp0.019.lipid profileslipid profiles are shown in table 6. tc ldl-c hdl-c and non-hdl-c levels significantly increased comparedwith at baseline at 8 weeks tc p0.001 ldl-c p0.000 hdl-c p0.042 non-hdl-c p0.004 in the placebo group but not in the lcs group.

4. among subjects with 2-hr post-load pg levels above the median at baseline n50 the reduction in the 1-hr post-load pg and ga levels at 8 weeks was significantly greater in the lcs group than in the placebo group p0.036 and p0.034 respectively fig.

