also samples which did not display the flu- orescent signal earlier than 37 cycles were considered negative.the number of positive samples for 16s rrna gene andbft gene using real time pcr are presented in table .the results of quantitative analysis of real time pcr for 16s rrna gene counted for b. fragilis and bft gene counted for etbf were shown in table .in this study there were 60 non-ibd controls.

several stud- ies implicated that b. fragilis which harbored bft gene are more present in patients with diarrhea and ibdcompared to control patients with no diarrhea  .

addition- ally we didn't analysis other species of bacteroides and other virulence factor of it so maybe in our population need to study them.based on the present data polysaccharide a psa from the capsule of b. fragilis will be a good potential tar- get to be taken into consideration in the future study.conclusionsin conclusion considering the real time results for bft1 gene the high incidence of etbf in mucosal biopsies of uc patients was statistically significant.

199611051429-37.prindiville tp sheikh ra cohen sh tang yj cantrell mc silva j jr. bacte- roides fragilis enterotoxin gene sequences in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

the bacteroides fragilis toxin gene is prevalent in the colon mucosa of colorectal cancer patients.

patients with any clinical andor histopathological diag- nosis of ibd were excluded from the study and the biop- sies were obtained in the same way as did for patients with uc.

the data from qrt-pcr were also used to determine the association of total mucosa- associated bacterial flora with disease state in uc patients.methodspatients and tissue specimensin this study in total 95 biopsies were collected from iranian uc patients n  35 as well as patients with non-inflammatory ibd nibd n  60 using colonos- copy.

our data demonstrated that etbf was detected significantly and more frequently in the samples of uc patients with diarrhea symp- toms than in others without diarrhea and in control patients.

some studies presented that bacteroides can be exist more in ibd patients than normal controls in fish and conventional culture methods that were commonly from european patients.

but some inves- tigations showed lower levels of bacteroides in ibd patients compared to the controls that the samples were mostly obtained from asian patients  .

gut pathog 2017 953doi 10.1186s13099-017-0202-0gut pathogensdetection of enterotoxigenic bacteroides fragilis in patients with ulcerative colitissamin zamani12 sonia hesam shariati1 mohammad reza zali3 hamid asadzadeh aghdaei3akram sarabi asiabar1 saied bokaie4 bizhan nomanpour5 leonardo antonio sechi6 and mohammad mehdi feizabadi17backgroundulcerative colitis uc is a type of human inflamma- tory bowel disease ibd caused by improper activation of the intestinal mucosa as a consequence of combina- tion of interactive factors such as genetic immunological and environmental  .

the confirmation of b. fragilis was done using pcr method.dna extractiondna extraction was performed on biopsies using rtpas diarrhea and colorectal cancer crc  -.in uc patients not enough data are available for quan- titative detection of etbf using biopsies.

data of this study show a decrease in the numbers of b. fra- gilis in the colonic mucosa of uc patients compared to control group suggesting the potential involvement of other virulence factors in b. fragilis which has to be taken into consideration for further clarification of the issue.. increasing the sample size and studying different popu- lation would be necessary to confirm this association.

statistical analysis of the data was con- ducted using the spss 13.0 software program.resultsthirty-five samples were taken from uc patients 14 males and 21 females mean age 36.71 years range 16-75 and 60 samples were taken from nibd 28 males and 32 females mean age 36.9 years range 16-75.count293160nibd 48.351.7100.0uccount191635uc 54.345.7100.0totaltable 3 quantitative analysis of the 16s rrna gene and bft genes from uc and nibd biopsy samplesno.

fragilisetbftable 5 etbf in patients with and without diarrheaetbfnegativepositiveuctable 4 quantitative analysis of the 16s rrna gene and bft genes from uc and nibd biopsy samplesb.

