results during the investigation period 20 children 45.5 developed allergic diseases including respiratory allergic rhinitis and asthma and skin atopic dermatitis and eczema allergies.lachnospiraceae were detected at significantly higher fre- quency in allergic infants than nonallergic infants p  .004 the high fecal count of lachnospiraceae in allergic subjects appeared at 2 months of age and persisted until 12 months of age.

in general the fecal count of r gnavus in allergic infants constituted an average of 2.9 of the total commensal bacteria population at 6 month of age and rose to 3.8 at 1 year of age as estimated by pcr-ttge profiling whereas it constituted averages of 0.4 and 0.8 at 6 months and 1 year of age respectively in nonallergic infants b. regarding r gnavus positive subjects their 3-year cumulative inci- dence of allergic diseases was significantly higher than that of subjects without r gnavus colonization c and the emergence of r gnavus in the stool specimens of allergic subjects preceded the clinical manifestation of allergies supplementary table 3. furthermore the rate of positive r gnavus colonization in infants with a combination of res- piratory and skin allergies or only respiratory allergies was 100 and r gnavus acquisition occurred at mean ages of2 6 months respectively d. in contrast only 29.2 of nonallergic infants were colonized with r gnavus which happened at a mean age of 9.4 months significantly later than the times at which infants with double-allergies were colonized p  .0001 d. besides the allergic subjects 50 10 of 20 were frequently colonized with r gnavus before the initiation of solid-food intake as compared with the nonallergic group 8.3 2 of 24 supplementary table 3 implying r gnavus can be trans- mitted through caregiver's contact or environment exposure even before the introduction of solid food.

in addition 7 pairs of concordant twins and 14 age-matched unrelated singletons were included in the study to allow substantial verification of our findings supplementary table 1. during the inves- tigation period a total of 45.5 20 of 44 subjects devel- oped allergic diseases including respiratory allergic rhinitis and asthma and skin atopic dermatitis and eczema allergies supplementary table 2. forty-five percent 9 of 20 of subjects manifested allergic symp- toms before completing their first year of life and the other patients had later allergy symptom onset after 1 year supplementary table 2. no significant relationships be- tween human milk feeding heredity probiotic usage and allergy development were noted supplementary table 2. stool specimens were collected serially at months0 meconium 1 2 6 and 12 and fecal dnas were sub- jected to 16s ribosomal rna rrna pcr-ttge analysis for evaluating bacterial diversity.

similar to the above findings lachnospiraceae colonization showed a significantly higher frequency in allergic infants than in nonallergic subjects p  .004 supplementary figure 2. moreover both the heatmap and the line chart demonstrated that the high fecal count of lachnospiraceae in allergic subjects manifested at 2 months of age and per- sisted until 12 months of age b and c. a clear lachnospiraceae amplicon was displayed in the month-12 fecal sample of the allergic discordant twin twin 1b but not in the samples of the nonallergic twin 1a and singletons inf 1 and 2 when the v3-v4 pcr products were separated in a ttge gel d.to further quantitate and evaluate the bacterial ge- nomes we subjected the month-12 fecal samples from 6 twin pairs to 16s rrna-based ngs analysis.

both twins 4a and 4b had allergy symptoms although disease onset occurred much later in twin 4b than in twin 4a whereas the remaining twin pairs are discordant supplementary table 2. principal component analysis was employed to determine the frequencies and identities of the bacterial families in allergic and nonallergic twins and the first pc1 27.8 and second pc2 12.9 principal components explained the total variation between the groups a. moreover principal coordinates analysis based on measures of dissimilarity and distance matrices between sample pairs indicated the existence of marked bacterial community structural differences between each allergic twin and nonallergy paired sibling b. to examine fecal 16s rrna metagenomes in detail we chose bacterial families with high scores on the ngs reads or families that had been implicated in allergic diseases for further com- parisons.

all of these data supported the fact that infants colonized too early and too abundantly by r gnavus are at risk for developing allergic disorders especially respiratory allergic disorders.ruminococcus gnavus induces airway hyper-responsiveness and t-helper2 allergic responsesto validate the potential role of r gnavus in the patho- genesis of respiratory allergies we established an asthmatic mouse model.

the enrichment of lachnospiraceae in allergic infants was attributed to the overgrowth of ruminococcus gnavus which tended to have a low frequency in nonallergic subjects p .0004. increased r gnavus was observed before the onset of allergic manifestations and was associated with respiratory allergies p  .002 or respiratory allergies coexistent with atopic eczema p  .001. in mice endogenous r gnavus grew rapidly after sensitization and challenge with ovalbumin.

the goals and procedures of this study were explained to the subjects' parents who signed informed consent forms and the study protocol was approved by the institutional review board of national taiwan university hospital.detailed protocols are provided in the supplementary materials and methods.resultsa high abundance of lachnospiraceae is prevalent among allergic twinsas we aimed to identify the gut microbes associated with the occurrence of allergic diseases during early childhood we first enrolled 8 pairs of discordant twins.

the green dots denote subjects with allergic diseases.fold in allergic twins than in their nonallergic counterparts c and d in line with the ttge results.

these bacteria are represented by aheatmap displaying the total counts of each species from months 0 to 12 a. the enrichment of lachno- spiraceae in allergic infants was clearly attributed to the overgrowth of r gnavus which tended to have a low fre- quency in nonallergic subjects p .0004 a. likewise our results regarding the ngs-surveyed micro- biota composition of 6 twin pairs showed that the fecal copy number of r gnavus was profoundly and consistently augmented in allergic twins compared with other lachno- spiraceae species supplementary figure 3a as well as with a number of well-documented allergy-associated spe- cies such as bifidobacterium longum lactobacillus rham- nosus clostridium difficile and faecalibacterium prausnitzii etc-supplementary figure 3b.figure 3. high fecal counts of r gnavus are indicative of a risk of allergy development.

collectively our data indicated that a high abundance of r gnavus is sufficient for the establishment of allergic pulmonary inflammation.ruminococcus gnavus induced pulmonary t-helper 2 immunity arise from the colonin view of the colonic colonization of r gnavus and a broad migration of gut-derived immune cells tofigure 4. r gnavus triggers airway allergic responses.

a representative epx-stained colon section from anr gnavus-infected mouse is shown.gnavus infected mice and was absent in the naive control g and supplementary figure 7c.for human allergic cases increasing serum level of eosinophil cationic protein a granular protein secreted by activated eosinophils during allergic inflammation was found to associate with high fecal count of r gnavusp .0091 r2 0.7054 supplementary figure 8. this implied an increased entry of eosinophils into blood circulation system of r gnavus colonized infants and proved that r gnavus drives eosinophilic immune response not only in experimental mice but also human subjects.ruminococcus gnavus primes type 2 innate lymphoid cells and dendritic cells for greater t-helper 2 differentiation by raising the production of epithelium-derived cytokinesth2 cell mediated inflammation is initiated by activa- tion of type-2 innate lymphoid cells ilc2s and dendritic cells dcs in response to the stimulation of epithelium- derived cytokines including il25 il33 and thymic stro- mal lymphopoietin which can be evoked by bacteria.

r gnavus is affiliated with lachnospiraceae a family of gram-positive obligate anaerobes within the order clostridiales.bacteria from lachnospiraceae rarely inhabit the gastrointestinal tract of human newborns but the populations of these bacteria increase moderately in infancy and reach their peak in adulthood.this family comprises not only potent pro- biotics that counteract allergic inflammation such as lach- nospiraceae bacterium 7158faa and lachnospira spp but also includes r gnavus which in contrast to the above bacteria acts to promote allergic development.

gastroenterology 2018154154-167intestinal dysbiosis featuring abundance of ruminococcus gnavus associates with allergic diseases in infantshuey-huey chua1 hung-chieh chou1 ya-ling tung1 bor-luen chiang123 chien-chia liao2 hong-hsing liu45 and yen-hsuan ni161department of pediatrics national taiwan university hospital national taiwan university taipei taiwan 2graduate institute of immunology college of medicine national taiwan university taipei taiwan 3graduate institute of clinical medicine college of medicine national taiwan university taipei taiwan 4institute of molecular and genomic medicine national health research institutes miaoli taiwan 5department of pediatrics en chu kong hospital sanxia taiwan and 6medical microbiota center college of medicine national taiwan university taipei taiwanbackground  aims dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota has been associated with development of allergies in infants.

fecal samples were collected beginning immediately after birth and for 1 year the children were followed until 3 years of age and allergic symptoms repetitive and continuous for at least 6 months were noted.

