We aimed to identify the factors that contributed substantially to infant microbiota shifts in Slovenian geographic locality to relate them to infant growth and development during the first year and finally to determine the microbial shifts directly associated with infant growth and development at first year.A comprehensive knowledge on the fecal microbial experience in the period of the microbiota acquisition and its relevance to the multiple early life exposures and clinical and developmental outcomes would not only enable to identify the critical determinants of an 'aberrantly' colonized gut but would also lead to the appropri- ate tailoring of the consortia in its initial confined momentum.

Sample prevalence and reaction parameters of qPCR investigated microbial groups.Health complications reported for five infants at the end of the first month were in comparison to healthy subjects 52 associated with a shift in Streptococcus at third month m 5.5 x 10-4 r 1.9 x 10-4-2.4 x 10-3 vs. m 3.8 x 10-3 r 1.8 x 10-4-4.4 x 10-2 p  0.015 and finally seven babies with health issues recorded at third month compared to the healthy subpopulation 50 were associated with higher proportion  of Bacteroides-Prevotella m1.5 x 101 r 1.5 x 10-4-3.1 x 101 vs. m 2.4 x 10-3 r 7.9 x 10-5-1.2 x 101 p  0.025in samples at third month.Maternal antibiotic treatments after birth characterized six infants at the end of their third month com- pared to those whose mothers were not exposed to antibiotics 51 by lower proportion  of Lactobacillus m 3 x 10-4 r 1.2 x 10-4-5.3 x 10-3 vs. m 3.4 x 10-3 r 1.4 x 10-4-3.6 x 10-1 p  0.031.

Backhed et al.emphasized also the role of nutrition in the first year micro- biota maturation and function and exposed the cessation of breastfeeding rather than the dietary integration of solid foods to be associated with microbial configuration shifts.

Even though relative abundances of single microbes were not directly associated with growth parameters the health variables at the observed time-intersections were found extendedly associated with dif- ferential proportions in some microbial groups.

Though certain Firmicutes populations on the lower taxonomic scale were reported to be associated with childhood obesity.In search for a time-dependent early gut stimuli associated with the expected growth in infants White et al.examined the detection of the probe signals in the fecal samples of term vaginally born Norwegian infants initially not exposed to antibiotics.

In European infants differential environmental circumstances were suggested to affect gut microbi- ota development in compositional shifts following 'north-south' geographic gradient.Unique and immensely complex mature gastrointestinal tract GIT microbial communities result from the intrinsic microbial interactions and their developmental host-associated determinants which are still not satis- factorily understood.

Associations between microbial groups in the forming gut communities were further investigated through the principal component analysis PCA of the relative abundance of 12 targeted microbial groups at 3 time points.

Feces collected at 3 30 and 90 days after birth from 60 breastfed Slovenian newborns was submitted to microbial DNA extraction and qPCR quantification of selected gut associated taxa.

.Samples dominant in the class Bacilli comprised of the cumulative relative abundance of staphylococci streptococci enterococci and lactobacilli prevailed 3 days after birth 55 while in the majority of later sam- ples Bifidobacterium group was recognized as the most abundant among the microbial groups surveyed.Infants classified on the basis of fecal microbiota composition into four groups as suggested by Dogra et al.

However none of the studied microbial groups was associated with growth indicator deviation scores.Additionally bivariate associations established for the bacterial groups with low sample prevalence 40 Table  were investigated in the logistic multiple regression analysis Supplementary Table S1ab.

