openreceived 10 march 2017accepted 16 august 2017 published xx xx xxxxthe relation between cesarean birth and child cognitive developmentcain polidano1 anna zhu1  joel c. bornstein 2this is the first detailed study of the relation between cesarean birth and child cognitive development.

the implication is that non-random attrition does not appear to be seriously biasing our results.whether participants in lsac are cesarean born is identified in the initial survey by the primary care giver's response to the question was...the type of birth delivery method a cesarean in our sample approximately 30 of primary care givers report that their children were cesarean-born between march 2003 and february 2004. to the extent that there is a stigma associated with elective procedures a potential concern is that the rate of cesarean birth may be under-reported in lsac social desirability bias.

under equation  the higher the proportion of variation in the outcome variable explained by the model r2 the smaller the discrepancy in the estimates of g1 and g1lower.for any estimated negative relation between cesarean birth and cognitive development the larger the discrep-ancy between estimates of g1lower and g1 the more unreliable g1 as an estimate of the true relation.resultsthe estimated ols relations between cesarean birth and child cognitive outcomes equation  for all births in our sample n  3666 are reported in table .

results of these sensitivity tests suggest that the estimated ols relations are unlikely to be entirely driven by bias from unobserved confounding.discussionwe find a negative relation between cesarean birth and a range of cognitive outcomes measured from ages 4 to 9. these relations are established after controlling for the socio-economic advantage associated with cesarean birth in australia and a rich set of perinatal risk factors that from meta-analyses  are commonly used in child health studies.

a possible explanation is that by limiting the sample to privately-insured births we are reducing the unobserved confounding from the socio-economic advantage asso- ciated with cesarean-born children which in the main analysis under-states the true effects of cesarean birth.the oster coefficients in table represent the possible lower-bound of any relation between cesarean birth and cognitive development measures under the conservative assumption that selection on unobserved covari- ates is the same as selection on observed covariates.

across several measures we find that cesarean-born children perform significantly below vaginally-born children by up to a tenth of a standard deviation in national numeracy test scores at age 8-9. estimates from a low-risk sub-sample and lower-bound analysis suggest that the relation is not spuriously related to unobserved confounding.lower rates of breastfeeding and adverse child and maternal health outcomes that are associated with cesarean birth are found to explain less than a third of the cognitive gap which points to the importance of other mechanisms such as disturbed gut microbiota.

the indi- rect association may occur through established links between cesarean birth and adverse child health outcomes including asthma type i diabetes allergies-and obesitythat are also associated with impaired functioning and lower academic performance .

the surgical nature of cesarean procedures also poses postnatal maternal health risks with potential knock-on effects for the child's development through altered mother-child interac- tionsand lower rates of breastfeeding-.the direct association may occur through alterations to the infant's gut microbiota.

the implication is that there is a critical window to correct any disruption to the gut microbi- ota after which cognitive impacts are permanent.in this study we estimate the relation between cesarean birth and child cognitive outcomes using data from the longitudinal study of australian children lsac a nationally representative birth cohort surveyed biennially and multivariate regression techniques.

in this study we measure the extent to which any relation between cesarean birth and cognitive development is mediated by lower rates of breastfeeding and adverse child and maternal health outcomes.

following oster conventions we set d  1 or estimatej1 j juj1 j jg1lower under the conservative assumption that selection on unobserved covariates is equal to selection ontable 2. ols regression estimates and oster lower-bound estimates of the relations between cesarean birth and child cognitive standard deviations.

in alternative models estimated on 37-40 week births with individual gestational week dummy variables we find few significant differences in outcomes between 37 38 and 39 weeks relative to the reference case of 40 weeks for any of the outcomes.turning to estimates in table  we observe significant negative relations between cesarean birth and measures of child cognitive development up to a tenth of a standard deviation.

information on diagnosis of add and asd at 8-9 may still be a valid measure of the presence of these conditions at 4-5.maternal general health is significantly associated with lower vocabulary at 4-5 years but otherwise maternal health is not significantly linked to any of the cognitive measures.combining these results breastfeeding obesity and add are found to significantly mediate the relation between cesarean birth and child cognitive outcomes although the effects size and significance vary table .

potential perinatal risks not controlled for include inheritable genetic traits such as a lack of mater- nal height that may drive both cesarean birth due to a relatively small pelvis cephalopelvic disproportion and child cognitive outcomes.

in this study we concentrate on examining possible long-term implications for child cognitive development.cesarean birth may be directly and indirectly associated with negative child cognitive outcomes.

