j dairy sci 801194- 1199armentano le bertics sj riesterer j 1993 lack of response to addi- tion of degradable protein to a low protein diet fed to mid lactation dairy cows.

furthermore very positive and strong as- sociation was found among manure n output and intake of dietary protein concentration decreasing the cp in the rumi- nant ration which reduces excretion of n to the environment yan et al.

also n excretion was signifi- cantly low when feeding diets are with low cp during production round of dairy cow decreasing 1 cp in the diet and reducing 8 to 10 n excretion and when the cp level decreased up to 3 to 4 with supplementation of limiting aa giving up good developmental performance which reduces n excretion up to 30 cole et al.

the efficiency of feed n utilization by animal in production was noted to be ap- proximately 30 the other 70 n were excreted from the animal body to the environment 30 excretion in feces and 40 in urine vandeharr and st-pierre .nitrogen excretion by ruminants as a source of water and soil pollutionfeed based on alfalfa and corn silage increases the excretion of urinary n and nh3 production from manure weiss et al.

different sources and types of cp levels were examined like rumen-degradable protein rdp rumen-undegradable protein rup and metabo- lizable protein mp to reduce n losses in ruminants.

analysis of the effects of supple- mentation of rumen-protected aa in milk production or con- tents depends on the availability of concentration of met and lys in the small intestine socha and schwab  andtable 1supplemented levels of rumen protected amino acids methionine and lysine their effects on milk production fat and milk protein referencedietsmilk yield kgdaymilk fat kgdaymilk protein kgdaysupplemented rumen protected amino acids in rationsupplementaddition of these aa in ruminant ration increases the flow of aa at the small intestine and raise the percentage of milk production and milk contents schwab et al.

j anim and feed sci 153-15trinacty j krizova l richter m cerny v riha j 2009 effect of rumen- protected methionine lysine or both on milk production and plasma amino acids of high-yielding dairy cows.

the most number of quantities of dietary protein and non-protein compounds degraded by ruminal microorganisms into peptides aa and nh3 and ex- cessive urinary n at about 60 to 80 is excreted in the envi- ronment hristov and jouany  reynal and broderick  vander pol et al.

j anim sci 743112-3124trinacty j krizova l hadrova s hanus o janstova b vorlova l drackova m 2006 effect of rumen protected protein supplemented with three amino acids on milk yield composition and fatty acid profile in dairy cows.

wu and sattar  but also increases concentration of ruminal ammonia nh3 blood urea nitrogen n and huge urinary n excretion castillo et al.

the ruminal n losses play a major role in the metabolic losses as indigestible microbial n also reduces the absorption of aa in milk protein approximately 72 of urinary n excretion was recorded in dairy cow tamminga .

feeding high concentration of n to dairy cow did not only increase microbial protein production but also raised rumen nh3 quantity and inevitably increase losses of n through urinary n excretion vandehaar and st-pieere .

trend of increasing cp in dairy cow diets not only increase milk production but also increase surge of ruminal nh3 production with blood urea n and subsequently increas- ing the losses of urinary n castillo et al.

more research was done to decline n excretion by reducing cp in ruminants ration feeding dietary cp con- centration from 18.4 to 15.1 is found to decrease the urinary n linearly with significant factor broderick et al.

j dairy sci 88671-676haque mn rulquin h andrade a faverdin p peyraud jl lemosquet s 2012 milk protein synthesis in response to the provision of an bideal amino acid profile at 2 levels of metabolizable protein sup- ply in dairy cows.

