Up to two-thirds of infants with moderate-to-severe AD show sensitization to food allergens in the first 2 years of life however only a minor proportion of sensitized infants have concomitant IgE-mediated food allergy.18 Thus we excluded subjects aged less than 3 years to eliminate the possible effects of food allergy.Increased levels of fecal calprotectin have been reported in children with inflammatory bowel disease or food aller- gy.101920 In patients with inflammatory bowel disease the fecal calprotectin level closely related with mucosal gastrointestinal inflammation.16 Fecal calprotectin levels were elevated and used to monitor mucosal healing in patients with ulcerative colitis as well.19 Thus fecal calprotectin has been considered a sensitive marker of mucosal healing in gut inflammation.

Correlations between fecal calprotectin levels and other parametersAbbreviations SCORAD scoring of atopic dermatitis ESR erythrocyte sedimentation rateDiscussionThe present study demonstrated that children with high fecal calprotectin levels had more severe AD assessed by the SCORAD index.

In addition high fecal calprotectin levels were found in children with egg allergy.20 The fecal calprotectin levels were almost twice higher in children with challenge-proved food allergy than in those with negative challenge results.20 Thus it could be useful for the diagnosis of a certain allergic diseases.

In the present study the incidence of exposure to ETS was significantly higher in subjects with high fecal calprotectin levels compared to those with low fecal calprotectin levels.

The fecal calprotectin level significantly correlated with the SCORAD indexr0.303 p0.014.Conclusions Higher fecal calprotectin levels were observed in subjects with severe AD.

Results of decreased fecal calprotectin after administration of probiotics for 4 weeks support that probiotics or live microorganisms may affect the host by supplying beneficial intestinal bacteria and provide health benefits.26 Interestingly infants with low fecal calprotectin levels shows a low Lactobacillaceae abundance and a high percentage of Escherichia in feces which suggests early colonization of the gut microbiota regulate intestinal inflammation.

Serum total IgE levels blood eosinophils and fecal calprotectin levels were log transformed before statistical analysis.

Children with elevated fecal calprotectin levels also showed higher blood eosinophils and IgE levels.

However only a few studies have addressed elevated calprotectin levels in the skin or serum in AD.1221 Orivuori et al.22 demonstrated that infants with high fecal calprotectin levels at the age of 2 months had an increased risk of developing AD by age 6.

One thing to be clarified is that we collected data on ETS exposure at home by questionnaires instead of cotinine levels which may have introduced some bias.In the present study we showed increased blood eosino- phils and IgE levels in subjects with elevated calprotectin levels.

