rod Citrobacter rodentisum S. Tm Salmonella Typhimurium Treg T regulatory cells.Mutant strain IL-18Tg IL-18 transgenic overexpression of IL-18 IL-18DIEC IL-18- deficient IEC IL-18DHE IL-18-deficient hematopoietic cells IL-18rDIEC IL-18R-deficient IEC IL-18r DHE IL-18R-deficient hematopoietic cells IL-18bp-- IL-18 binding protein- deficient IL-18bp--IL-18rDHE IL-18bp-- with IL-18R-deficient hematopoietic cells.immunity driving T cell activation and survival  and acting in concert with other cytokines to promote Th17 cell differen- tiation .

IEC are composed of various specialized cell types enteroabsorptive cells goblet cells Paneth cells neuroendrocrine cells tuft cells and stem cells.

Given that intestinal epithelial cells IEC act as a barrier between the host and the intestinal microbiota inflammasome expression by these cells is likely important for intestinal immune homeostasis.

Thus although the contribu- tions of IL-18 to clinical intestinal inflammation remain unclear evidence suggests that dysregulated IL-18 signaling could influ- ence intestinal inflammation.In murine models different studies have drawn conflicting conclusions on whether IL-18 plays a predominantly pathogenic or protective role in intestinal inflammation.

In addition IL-18 has also been demonstrated to promote optimal T regulatory cells responses in the gut with the lack of IL-18 associated with increased proinflammatory T effector cells .Such studies have led to the conclusion that epithelial-derived IL-18 promotes barrier integrity and maintains a healthy microbiota which contributes to protection against intestinal injury and inflammation.

A comprehensive understand- ing of the molecular basis of intestinal inflammasome signaling could hold therapeutic potential for clinical translation.Keywords inflammasome iL-18 iL-1b intestinal epithelial cells NOD-like receptor pyroptosis inflammatory bowel diseaseiNTRODUCTiONIntestinal homeostasis is governed by complex interactions between the host immune system the vast constitutive antigenic load in the lumen and the epithelial barrier.

For example does too little IEC death result increased potential for invasive infection due to lack of cell extrusion and does too much IEC death perpetuate unnecessary inflammation Finally what function does dysregulated inflammasome activation and pyroptosis play in IBD IBD patients are known to have necrotic lesions and increased levels of IL-18 and IL-1b in the inflamedintestine but their relative contributions to chronic intestinalpathology remain incompletely understood.Despite these challenges and limitations understanding gut- associated inflammasome signaling its role in regulating dietary- microbiome-host immune interactions constitutes a critical component in maintaining homeostasis and mediating various immune-mediated disorders.

J Biol Chem 2002 2772320431-7. doNagata S Tanaka M. Programmed cell death and the immune system.Nat Rev Immunol 2017 175333-40. doChudnovskiy A Mortha A Kana V Kennard A Ramirez JD Rahman A et al.

Elevated colonic IL-1b levels are also characteristic of many animal IBD modelsiL-1R1 signaling pathwayiL-18R signaling pathwayIL-18---Increased intestinal Th1 and Th17 effector cellsNon-hematopoietic expression intestinal epithelial cells IEC- and strategies blocking IL-1b signaling were beneficialin ameliorating acute models of intestinal inflammation -.Moreover genetic alterations of key innate immune molecules such as NOD2 and Atg16l1 resulted in over production of IL-1b by macrophages and enhanced susceptibility to dextran sodium sulfate DSS-mediated intestinal injury  .

Although immune cells and IEC express both canonical and non-canonical inflammasome components how these complexes interact with one another upon stimulationTabLe 2  Inflammasome components and intestinal inflammation.Mutant strainTriggereffectReferenceTabLe 2  ContinuedMutant strainTriggereffectReferenceinflammasome componentsAsc--DSSIncreased pathology   Decreased IL-18 levels iNLRC4Vil-Cre S. TmFlaToxComparable bacterial burden Comparable IL-18and PGE2 levels Comparable caspase-124Decreased AMP levels Treatment with taurinerIL-18 ameliorated diseaseand caspase-8 activationNLRP1--DSSIncreased pathology Rescued by treatment withC.

