We have previously reported that during the development of liver injury inflammasome components were upregulated in the liver and downregulated in the gut and this was associated with microbiota modifications and bacterial translocation.

To assess whether the increased liver weight observed in Nlrp3---HFHC- fed mice was associated with higher fat deposition in the liver we evaluated hepatic fat content.

In our model Nlrp3-- mice showed increased liver steatosis macrophage infiltration and liver injury NAS score.

The key role of gut dysbiosis in the pathogenesis of adipose tissue and hepatic alter- ations has been proved by antibiotic treatment which dramatically modified bacterial composition depleting gram-negative bacteria including Proteobacteria which strongly correlates with liver disease progression finally reducing bacterial translocation liver injury and adipose tissue inflammation.

Our data expand previous observations from Henao-Mejia showing that colonic dysbiosis is present in mice lacking ASC-inflammasome a downstream of NLPR3 upon MCD diet and bacterial products derived from the intestine trigger hepatic TLR4 and TLR9 activation which was associated with disease progression.Several metabolic phenomena could explain the higher degree of steatosis and liver injury in Nlrp3---HFHCa reduced energy expenditure that could explain the increased body weight and fat mass despite a progressive decrease in the caloric intakebody weight ratio in Nlrp3---HFHC compared to other groups b increased expression of PPAR g2 and of its downstream effectors that facilitates fat deposition in the liver in the face of positive energy balance- c increased hepatic SCD-1 activity a central lipogenic enzyme associated with hepatic steatosis d increased mitochondrial b-oxidation measured by CPT1A expression.

In our previ- ous study we showed that the progression of liver fibrosis is associated with the downregulation of NLRP3 in the gut which together with the current evidence of a strong correlation between intestinal changes including modification of microbiota composition and liver disease makes the role of NLRP3 in the intestine extremely attractive as a protective factor.Material and MethodsAnimals.

Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis is the second leading etiology of liver disease among adults awaiting liver transplantation in the United States.

Sources of fatty acids stored in liver and secreted via lipoproteins in patients with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

To further confirm the increased lipid deposition in the liver of mice lacking NLRP3 we quantified triglyceride content which was found significantly enhanced in these mice compared to WT animals p  0.01 Fig.

Nlrp3---HFHC mice showed increased weight gain a despite reduced calories intakebody weight ratio b and this was associated with reduced total energy expenditure TEE c. Liver-to-body-weight ratio d correlated with hepatic lipid accumulation evaluated by HE staining e and triglyceride quantification in liver f. These effects did not correlate with different intestinal lipid absorption g. Mean-SE p 0.05 vs Nlrp3---Chow diet p 0.01vs Nlrp3---Chow diet p 0.001 vs Nlrp3---Chow diet p 0.0001 vs Nlrp3---Chow diet c p 0.05 vs Wt-Chow diet cc p 0.01 vs Wt-Chow diet p 0.05 p 0.01 p 0.001.NRF2 Fig.

