moreover cyclophosphamide can cause intestinal dysbiosis which is associated with bacterial translocation.2 in one study cyclophosphamide was found to alter the micro- biota resulting in the translocation of selected species of gram-positive bacteria into secondary lymphoid organs.3 in addition cyclophosphamide is cytotoxic particularly to rapidly proliferating cells in the intestinal villus.some traditional chinese herbal medicines have recently attracted attention owing to the identification of bioactive sub- stances and their prominent therapeutic effects.

for example the drug cyclophosphamide is associated with bloating abdominal pain diarrhea gastroenteritis and inflammation.1 cyclophosphamide can also affect the mucosal barrier and alter the microbial composition in the small intes- tine.

however cyclophosphamide can also lead to some side effects damaging the intestinal mucosal barrier and impairing the translocation of intestinal microflora.19 in the present study we found that sc-fuc alleviated cyclopho- sphamide-induced injury to the intestinal mucosal barrier by modulating gut microbiota.cyclophosphamide impaired the intestinal epithelia and destroyed the structure of the intestinal villi increasing the exposure of crypts to intestinal luminal substances.20 in our study cyclophosphamide affected the structure of the intesti- nal mucosa.

cyclophosphamide is one of several widely used cancer drugs and can alter the microbiota in the small intestine including the induction of gram-positive bacteria to second lymphoid organs.33 however the mechanism through which microbial- derived scfas produced from sc-fuc reduce cyclophosphamide- induced damage to the host intestinal mucosal barrier is still unknown additional studies at the cellular level are needed.recent studies have shown that fucose is degraded and uti- lized by the microbiota and can modify the intestinal microbial community structure.3435 moreover we showed that sc-fuc could increase otus after cyclophosphamide treat- ment restoring the normal microbiota.

in this study we examined the effects of fucoidan isolated from acaudina molpadioides on mice with intestinal mucosal damage induced by cyclophosphamide.

our results showed that fucoidan intervention could relieve injury such as decreasing inflammation and increasing the expression of tight junction proteins and50 kda fucoidan significantly increased the abundance of short chain fatty acid scfa producercoprococcus rikenella and butyricicoccus  p  0.05 p  0.001 and p  0.05 respectively species within the intestinal mucosa compared with the cyclophosphamide group as determined by 16s rdna gene high-throughput sequencing.

the protective effects of fucoidan on cyclophosphamide treatment may be associated with gut microflora and 50 kdafucoidan had superior effects.

this study tried to reveal the mechanism of how sc-fuc protects the intestinalmucosa against cy.accordingly in this study we evaluated the protective effects of sc-fuc and fragments on intestinal mucosal damage induced by cyclophosphamide and modulation of microflora by 16s rrna gene high-throughput sequencing.

during the experi- ment the normal and cy groups were given saline and the other two groups were given fucoidan and 50 kda enzymatic fragments respectively at a dose of 50 mg per kg bw by gavage once a day for 14 days table 1. on the 12th day all mice except for the normal group were treated with an intra- peritoneal injection of cyclophosphamide 50 mg per kg bw once a day for 2 days15 while the normal group was treatedwith saline.

these data indicated that otus were deleted by cyclophosphamide treatment and enriched by sc-fuc treatment except in the fuc-treated group.

n represents normal and m fuc.cru and fuc50 serve as cy fuc and 50kd respectively.proteobacteria were the four most abundant phyla in this study table 3. with cyclophosphamide treatment the abun- dance of bacteroidetes was decreased from 59.34 - 7.3 to 46.36 - 6.1 although this effect was not observed in the fuc group.

in contrast firmicutes and proteobacteria weretable 3 relative abundance of top 4 phylum levels with high abundanceabundance increased after cyclophosphamide treatment again this was not observed in the fuc group.

the abundance of actinobacteria was slightly decreased from 2.75 - 0.86 to 1.83 - 0.41 following treatment with cyclophosphamide in the normal group but increased following treatment with 50 kda fuc and decreased in the fuc group compared with that in the cy group.

n  5. feces were collected on the 14th day before the mice were sacrificed.response to cyclophosphamide and sc-fuc treatmentto detect changes in the unique microbiota in the four groups we performed heat map analysis at the genus level.

additionally bacteroides lactobacillus alistipes and rikenella decreased inabundance after treatment with cyclophosphamide whereas sc-fuc could reverse this effect particularly 50 kda sc-fuc.

