the d13c of co2 in the seeping gas and in the cave atmosphere was - 33.2 - 0.10 and - 25.2 - 0.10 respectively 2. dissolved oxygen concentra- tions in the spring water and mixed cave water were 3.2 and 4.3 in average respectively 1. sampling of the undisturbed cave atmosphere via gas tubes indicated microoxic conditions o215.1 - 4 n  5 under steady state.the ph of biofilm samples was similar to that of the water ph  7.5. elemental analysis of freeze- dried biofilms recovered a light carbon isotope signature -44.40 directly corresponding to the seeping methane itself especially for the submersed biofilms 2. snottites and subaerial biofilms showed a significantly heavier d13c -30.7 - 1.10. this was in between the signatures of ch4 and co2 in the cave atmosphere rather than directly reflect- ing seeping ch4.

in the subaerial biofilms 4. mem- bers of the pseudomonadaceae were also abundant100806040200methylomirabilissnottites subaerial submersedmineral springmixed cave watershow that deep formation water enters the spring cave together with appreciable amounts of methane as indicated by the elevated mixing ratios of methane in the water and atmosphere of the cave.

all sequencing data have been deposited with the ebi sequence read archive under the bioproject id prjeb14605.resultsgeochemical characterization of cave water atmosphere and biofilmsthe mineral spring water was saline microoxic and carried only low amounts of doc nutrientstable 1 water physicochemistry and microbial cell counts for different water bodies in the cavemixed cave watermineral spring watermeteoric seepage water344abbreviations bd below detection limit doc dissolved organic carbon ec electric conductivity na not analyzed tu tritium units defined as ratio of 1 3h atom to 1018 h atoms.asingle measurement in december 2012.bthis study n  4 and routine monitoring data from lfu n  4. clfu monitoring data n  4 from october 2011 to april 2012. dthis study n  3 and lfu monitoring data n  4.phosphate and alternative electron acceptors such as nitrate or sulfate 1. total iodine concen- tration was  20 mg l- 1 in the spring water and diluted to  3 mg l- 1 in the mixed cave water.

finally we ask whether possible links between methane and iodine cycling can be inferred for thispeculiar microbial habitat.materials and methodssite and samplingthe semiartificial sulzbrunn cave 47.67deg n 10.39deg e is accessible by descending 8 m via a metal ladder 1. entering the cave without breathing equipment is only possible during cold seasons as limited air exchange through the chuted entrance causes microoxic conditions especially during war- mer outside temperatures.

average methane concentrations in the mixed cave waterand in the cave atmosphere were 6000 and 3000 p.p.

recently the role of microbial methane oxidation within cave and karst ecosystems has been addressed globally methane-driven communities can comprise a multitude of interactions between metha- notrophs methylotrophs and heterotrophs energetic constraints imposed by the various pathways of carbon assim- ilation under low concentrations of oxygen and methane have been shown to trigger substantial exopolysaccharide production in methanotrophs  which could potentially explain such massive biofilm production.

the ch4 consumption rates of up to 25 mmol gbiofilm fw - 1 day- 1 were 44 orders of magnitude higher than rates recently reported for the water column above methane seeps in lake constance  and in a similar high range as reported for other methane-venting geothermal sites upscaling this for biofilm mass estimates in the cave a potential methane turnover of  1.6 mol day- 1 35.8 l ch4 day- 1 can be extrapolated for the submersed biofilms alone.

the placement of the aerial biofilms at approximately- 310 d13c in between the signature of both gaseous end members in the cave atmosphere indicated an equal importance of both methanotrophy and auto- trophic or heterotrophic co2 fixation for biofilm buildup as previously inferred for other biofilms in caves never- theless the lower methane oxidation rates and lower abundance of potentially c1-oxidizing microbes both seem to point toward a possible role of electron donors other than methane in aerial biofilms.

all tested water and biofilm samples were pcr positive data not shown for genes encoding the methanol dehydrogenase mxaf and particulate methane monooxygenase pmoa but not for soluble methane monooxygenase.table 2 elemental composition of dried biofilms and potential methane oxidation rates of fresh biofilms at 12 degc in the laboratoryfigure 3 visualization of biofilm structures in snottites by laser microscopy in combination with lectin staining.

these are known as nitrate-dependent anae- robic methane oxidizers proposed to intra- aerobically oxidize methane under no dismutation their detection points toward the possible occurrence of anaerobic methane oxida- tion in specific microniches of the sulzbrunn biofilms.

multilayer globular features with clusters of capsule-like structures as well as globules with higher levels of organization were also observed fi3d.molecular analysis of water and biofilm microbiota microbial abundances as determined by flow cyto- metry were  3.1 x 103 cells ml- 1 in the mineral spring water and a much higher  1.6 x 106 in the mixed cave water 1. mixed cave water cell counts were largely consistent with 16s rrna gene quantification supplementary figure s1 but quan- titative pcr counts for the spring water were higher than cell counts.

furthermore the abundant detection of putatively sulfur-oxidizing and iron- oxidizing  as well as iron- reducing  members of the betaproteobacteria especially in spring and mixed cave waters points toward active sulfur and iron cycling in the cave.

openoriginal articlethe isme journal 2018 12 87-100microbial megacities fueled by methane oxidation in a mineral spring caveclemens karwautz1 gunter kus2 michael stockl1 thomas r neu3 and tillmann lueders1 1institute of groundwater ecology helmholtz zentrum munchen - german research centre for environmental health neuherberg germany 2bavarian environment agency lfu department 10 geological survey hofsaale germany and 3department of river ecology helmholtz centre for environmental research-ufz magdeburg germanymassive biofilms have been discovered in the cave of an iodine-rich former medicinal spring in southern germany.

stable isotope analysis indicated that thermogenic methane emerging into the cave served as an important driver of biofilm formation.

aerobic methanotrophs and biofilms have been previously found in groundwater and drinking water systems where they can be involved in the oxidation of methane or methylated compounds the movile cave in romania receiving deep thermal waters rich in hydrogen sulfide  also hosts microbial mats of active methanotrophs .

