preparation of metagenomic libraries and sequencing was performed by the uc san diego institute for genomic medicine.illumina paired end reads were quality filtered and trimmed using trimmomatic version 0.33 then assembled using idba-ud version 1.1.1. assembled scaffolds were mapped to input reads using the end-to-end option of bowtie2 version 2.256. depth of coverage was calculated using the idxstats module of samtools version 0.1.1957.assembled scaffolds were classified according to taxonomic origin as previously described58 first performing a blastx search against the genbank nr reference database downloaded october 16 2015 using diamond version 0.7.9 identifying the taxonomic classification of database match sequences using darkhorse version 1.5 at a filter setting of zero41 then tallying the taxonomic distribution of database matches for each individual scaffold.identification of hsbmp clusters from additional sponge cladeswe used targeted amplification to capture the hsbmp gene cluster in all host clades by using metagenomic sequence data from both sp12 clade ia and sp4 clade iv.

despite the high average coverage depth we did not observe hsbmp genes in metagenomic sequences from clade iii sponge specimen gum007.to obtain a more complete set of hsbmp operon sequences from different sponge clades we designed consensus primers based on the clade ia hsbmp metagenomic sequence and partially assembled scaffolds from clade iv see supplementary methods for details supplementary figure 10 supplementary table 8. through several iterations of pcr amplification and sanger sequencing hsbmp operon sequences were recovered from clade ib for which no metagenomic sequences had been obtained and gaps in the clade iv hsbmp operon were closed figure 4c.

the requirement of an additional hydroxylase such as hsbmp12 for the natural production of polybrominated dioxins andagarwal et al.page 7di-oh-bdes mirrors our prior biomimetic studies in which a flavin-dependent hydroxylase was refactored in combination with bmp5 and bmp7 for the production of polybrominated dioxins and di-oh-bdes36.identification of alternative hsbmp operon structureswith the confirmation that clade ia sp12 hsbmp genes encode the synthesis of pbdes we next turned to metagenomes from sponge specimens sp4 clade iv and gum007 cladeiii to evaluate how their hsbmp operon structures correlate with their respective polybrominated natural product variability figure 2. the clade iv sp4 metagenome contained hsbmp gene homologs on several small incompletely assembled scaffolds of cyanobacterial origin supplementary figure 8a.

in this variable region the clade ia operon possesses the cyp450 hydroxylase hsbmp12 gene that participates in the synthesis of di-oh-bdes such as 6 and 11 along with polybrominated dioxins figure 5. correspondingly the clade iv locus encodes genes with homology to b12-dependent iron-sulfur cluster enzymes that could serve catalytic roles in the isomerization of 1 to 2. together with our earlier proposal for the participation ofpromiscuous halogenases that further halogenate the ortho- and para-positions of phenoxyl- activated aromatic rings of 2 and 5 ref 8 the three hsbmp gene loci identified in this study unify the biosynthetic proposals for a vast majority of the naturally produced pbdesagarwal et al.page 9detected in the marine environment78.

the scattered distribution and the reduced assembly coverage depth for the sp4 metagenome as compared to the clade ia sp12 metagenome with comparable input reads figures 4b supplementary figure 8a supplementary table 3 is consistent with the higher microbiome diversity and reduced h. spongeliae relative abundance in clade iv sponges figure 3. however despite reduced h. spongeliae dominance pbde product abundance in clade iv at 10.8 sponge dry weight is comparable to that of clade ia sponge specimens 12.0 sponge dry weight see supplementary methods for details supplementary figure 9. for specimen gum007 in which no pbdes were detected we enriched the sponge tissue samples for cyanobacterialtrichomes as described previously24 prior to dna extraction see supplementary methodsfor details.

no other bacterial species were detected in sufficient abundance to support coverage of the bmp gene cluster observed in the metagenomic data.we thus named the putative bmp gene cluster from the clade ia sp12 metagenome as hsbmp h. spongeliae derived bmp operon figure 4c numbering individual genes by homology to the previously described pseudoalteromonas bmp gene cluster4.

2017 may  135 537-543. doi10.1038nchembio.2330.metagenomic discovery of polybrominated diphenyl ether biosynthesis by marine spongesvinayak agarwal1 jessica m. blanton12 sheila podell12 arnaud taton3 michelle a. schorn12 julia busch12 zhenjian lin4 eric w. schmidt4 paul r. jensen12 valerie j. paul5 jason s. biggs6 james w. golden3 eric e. allen123 and bradley s. moore1271center for oceans and human health scripps institution of oceanography university of california san diego2center for marine biotechnology and biomedicine scripps institution of oceanography university of california san diego3division of biological sciences university of california san diego 4department of medicinal chemistry university of utah salt lake city 5smithsonian marine station at ft pierce florida6university of guam marine laboratory uog station guam7skaggs school for pharmacy and pharmaceutical sciences university of california san diego these authors contributed equally to this work.abstractnaturally produced polybrominated diphenyl ethers pbdes pervade the marine environment and structurally resemble toxic man-made brominated flame retardants.

in the analogous variable region for clade iv two genes hsbmp13-14 encode peptides homologous to b12-dependent iron-sulfur cluster enzymes followed by a disruptedagarwal et al.page 8repetition of the hsbmp5 gene encoded by hsbmp15-16 sharing 80 nucleotide identity with the hsbmp5 gene.

for clarity groups representing0.1 of the data are not labeled.agarwal et al.page 22figure 4. discovery of hsbmp gene clustersa previously identified bmp gene loci in the marine bacterium pseudoalteromonas luteoviolacea 2ta16.

all pcr results were replicated in at least two sponge samples from each clade.consistent with their functional roles in the synthesis of pbdes figure 4a the hsbmp gene clusters for clades ib and iv contained the core repertoire of hsbmp5-7 genes and displayed high overall sequence similarity to clade ia across the regions spanning these operon elements figure 4c supplementary table 9. we observed a variable region between hsbmp6 and hsbmp7 genes consistent with the expressed pbde chemistry in clades ia ib and iv.

additional phylogenetic analysis was performed as above on a more extensive collection of published its-2 reference sequences to include broader geographic distribution and to evaluate sponge taxonomic placement resulting in a reconstruction with 500 bootstrap replicates supplementary figure 2.bacterial community profiling with 16s rrna gene sequencesthe v4 region 410 bp of the 16s rrna gene was amplified from whole-tissue genomic dna extractions using a two-pcr protocol to create dual-barcoded amplicon pools as described in illumina's guide to 16s metagenomic sequencing library preparation.

multiple samples were obtained corresponding to clades ia ib iii and iv while no specimens belonging to the dysideidae clade ii were identified in our collection.agarwal et al.page 4mass spectrometry and nmr analyses of sponge extracts revealed clear correlations between the sponge its-2 sequence phylogeny figure 2a and polybrominated phenolic chemistry figure 2b.

2007 362155-171. pubmed 17417008agarwal et al.page 19figure 1. synthetic and naturally occurring polyhalogenated moleculesstructural similarity between a synthetic and b naturally produced marine halogenated phenolic toxins and pollutants.agarwal et al.page 20figure 2. host and symbiont phylogeniesa left midpoint-rooted maximum likelihood ml phylogeny based on sponge ribosomal its-2 sequences from the current study in bold along with representative literature examples.

our results provide genetic and biochemical logic for the production of polybrominated toxins from one of the most prominent natural sources of pbdes in the ocean and now set the stage for metagenomic inventorying and discovery of other geographically dispersed producers.resultscorrelation of pbde chemistry with sponge holobiontswe collected eighteen sponge specimens morphologically similar to previously described lamellodysidea herbacea and dysidea granulosa8 from multiple sites within the u.s. territory of guam in 2014 and 2015 supplementary results supplementary figure 1 supplementary table 1. a molecular phylogeny of sponge ribosomal internal transcribed spacer its-2 sequences derived from these samples along with sequences previously reported from other indo-pacific locations253031 revealed four well-supported monophyletic clades figure 2a supplementary figure 2. clades i-iii encompass a taxonomically contested group of lamellodysidealendenfeldiadysidea genera32 whereas clade iv corresponds to dysidea granulosa.

the hsbmp gene encoding a cyp450 hydroxylase with no analogous counterpart in the pseudoalteromonas bmp gene cluster was designated hsbmp12 preceded by a partial 315 bp duplication of the 5'-region of the hsbmp5 gene named hsbmp11.

