s1 the 'wind tunnel' volatile introduction system used for the electroantennographic bioassays.table s1 full names of plant species at stebbins cold canyon reserve sampled for fungi and bacteriatable s2 unknown compound retention indices principal ions and peak areas in ex situ microbial headspacetable s3 plant species names and other metadata for floral headspace samplestable s4 statistical results of generalized linear model examining fungal abundance bacterial abundance and plant species on the presence of microbially associated volatiles in floral headspace collected in the fieldplease note wiley blackwell are not responsible for the content or functionality of any supporting information supplied by the authors.

plant species varied in the presence of n-hexanol v2  13.101.000.750.500.250.00solution microbial genusperno yesp  0.02 but species identity did not predict the presence of other volatiles and no apparent relationship was found between bacterial abundance and focal volatiles detected in the field analy- ses table s4.discussionhere we demonstrate that common microbial inhabitants of floral nectar differ in the volatile profiles emitted and can influence acceptability of nectar to a generalist pollinator.

flower abbreviation indicates the first three letters of the genus and species for each plant species sampled with n  1170 individual flowers sampled with n  13-133 samples per plant species.

2013 so the consequences for plant reproduction and microbial dispersal may depend on the specific combination of plant microbe and floral visitor.more generally the finding that microbial volatiles can con- tribute to plant phenotype suggests a novel mechanism of micro- bial influence on ecological interactions between plants and animals.

2008 accumulation of volatiles in the freshly sealed container see above for venting pro- cedure to allow for collection of volatiles at the specific timepoint 15 min exposure of fiber to adsorb volatiles 15 min stor- age time of volatiles on fiber  1 min and thermal desorption of volatiles in injector ports 6 min.

solutions were introduced in two different sequences.in situ floral headspace analysisvolatiles were collected from the floral headspace of five plant species table s3 a subset of those surveyed above at the uc davis stebbins cold canyon reserve winters ca usa in may and june 2016 a total of 24 samples across three sampling dates.

nectar-inhabiting microorganisms influence nectar volatile composition and attractiveness to a generalist pollinatorcaitlin c. rering1 john j. beck1 griffin w. hall2 mitchell m. mccartney3 and rachel l. vannette21chemistry research unit center for medical agricultural and veterinary entomology agricultural research service united states department of agriculture 1700 sw 23rd dr. gainesville fl 32608 usa 2department of entomology and nematology university of california davis one shields ave. davis ca 95616 usa 3mechanical and aerospace engineering university of california davis one shields ave. davis ca 95616 usaauthor for correspondence rachel l. vannette tel 1 530 752 3379email received 16 june 2017 accepted 21 august 2017new phytologist 2017doi 10.1111nph.14809key words apis mellifera floral headspace microbial volatile mvoc nectar microbes pollination semiochemical volatile organic chemicals vocs yeast.summarythe plant microbiome can influence plant phenotype in diverse ways yet microbial contri- bution to plant volatile phenotype remains poorly understood.

floral headspace samples collected in the field were surveyed for the presence of microbial volatiles.microbes commonly inhabit floral nectar and the common species differ in volatile profiles.

we examined if microbial species differed in variance in volatile composition at each timepoint days 2 and 4 separately using the betadisper function in vegan.to examine which compounds were detected by honey bees we used a t-test to examine if normalized eag responses were significantly different from zero no detectable response and used a false discovery rate fdr correction to control for multiple comparisons.to examine if microbial species in nectar influenced honey bee proboscis extension per we used a binomial regression to examine if the proportion of positive responses by honey bees varied among microbial species.

microbial species differ from each other species p  0.001 and diverge from each other over time species 9 day p  0.001. in panels for days 2 and 4 replicates of metschnikowia reukaufii are largely overlapping.produced by the yeast m. reukaufii 465 86 normalized antennal response at 40 lmol exposure dose table 1 while its structural isomer and primary alcohol isobutanol produced by all microbes did not elicit a significant response 24 14 normalized antennal response at 40 lmol.honey bees varied in acceptance of microbial solutions based solely on volatile exposure control and m. reukaufii solutions were accepted in over 70 of trials whereas a. pullulans and asaia were accepted 36 and 48 of the time respectively.

the plant species delphinium nudicaule m. aurantiacus clarkia unguiculata collinsia heterophylla and delphinium hesperium were chosen because all were found to host bacteria or fungi in floral nectar often at high abundance.

the chemical compounds produced by the microorganisms assayed have been previously described in the floral headspace of plant species lemfack et al.

plant signal behavior 4 1102-1104.pozo mi herrera cm bazaga p. 2011. species richness of yeast communities in floral nectar of southern spanish plants.

still the experiment as executed allowed us to report that some volatiles produced by floral microbes were also found in the headspace of wild flowers.statistical analysesto compare volatile blends among microbial species and days following inoculation peak areas were log-transformed.

our results provide evidence that nectar-inhabiting microorganisms are common but variable inhabitants of nectar and that different microbial species produce distinct volatile blends detectable in field samples which may influence pollinator detection and preference.materials and methodsstudy system and microbial isolationnectar standing crop was collected from 1170 individual flowers of 28 nectar-producing plant species native to california in octo- ber 2015 and march-june 2016 supporting information table s1.

