bar 20 um.in symptomatic samples in limoges dupuytren hospital asymptomatic 3.1 - 2.6 speciessample range of 2 to 8 symptomatic 2 - 1.7 speciessample range of 1 to 6 p 0.004 as well as in curie hospital asymptomatic 6.3 - 2.5 speciessample range of 3 to 10 symptomatic 4.7 - 1.9 speciessample range of 1 to 8 p 0.008. moreover mean species richness in the overall sample set was significantly higher p 0.0002 in asymptomatic 5.4 - 2.3 speciessample range of 2 to 10 than in symptomatic 2.45 - 2.2 speciessample range of 1 to 8 samples.based on the concentration of total dna extracted from asymptomatic tivaps for 16s rrna culture-independent analysis purposes bacterial content appeared much lower in asymptomatic samples than in symptomatic samples.

asymptomatic samples showed species evenness e0.63 similar to that of symptomatic samples e0.64 but the mean slope for symptomatic samples was two times steeper curie m0.149 limoges m 0.203 than for asymptomatic samples curie m0.077 limoges m0.105.

we found that when analyzed as a group asymptomatic samples showed similar total evenness as symptomatic samples but that in both hospitals the asymptomatic samples showed a rank abundance curve slope that was only half as steep as that for symptomatic samples.

acidovorans whereas in asymptomatic samples all five most frequently encountered species were of environmental origin d. acidovorans v. paradoxus c. leidyi brevundi- monas nasdae and mesorhizobium amorphae .these results therefore show that while species richnesses were similar between asymptomatic samples from the hospitals species composition varied significantly and no bacterial species assemblage specific to asymptomatic samples could be identified for both sample cohorts.correlation between clinical and microbiological data.

the majority of limoges asymptomatic samples clustered more tightly than curie asymptomatic samples due to the relatively high abundance of p. aquatica and r. pickettii in these samples.these results therefore show no significant difference in species diversity but reveal a distinct community composition pattern distinguishing symptomatic and asymptom- atic tivap samples at the phylum level.

a curie asymptomatic samples b curie symptomatic samples c limoges asymptomatic samples d limoges symptomatic samples.fig 7 slopes of the rank abundance curves for all sample groups.

however the slopes of individual asymptomatic and symptomatic samples in limoges hospital p0.02 as well as asymptomatic samples in the two hospitals differed significantly p0.03.these results therefore indicate that symptomatic and asymptomatic sample com- munities were similarly even.

comparison ofphylum distributions of the detected species showed that symptomatic tivap samples contained markedly more species belonging to the firmicutes whereas asymptomatic samples contained many more species belonging to the betaproteobacteria .hierarchical cluster analysis using the bray-curtis similarity index was carried out to determine how similar symptomatic and asymptomatic chambers were in terms of bacterial presence and abundance fig.

the species occurring in both hospitals' asymptomatic tivap samples were also all found in symptomatic samples.

both diversity index values indicated a slightly higher relative diversity for asymptomatic samples simpson0.83 shannon2.32 than for symptomatic samples simpson 0.77 shannon1.92 table s5.

when looking at individual sample rank abundance curve slopes there was no statistical differ- ence p  0.05 between symptomatic and asymptomatic samples in curie hospital or between symptomatic samples in the two hospitals.

we identified strong sample clustering based on the presence of highly abundant hospital-associated species in symptomatic samples and also found that the presence of highly abundant p. aquatica or r. pickettii led to some clustering in asymptomatic samples in limoges which could be interesting for future studies.

comparison of species presences at the phylum level identified an increased presence of species belonging to the firmicutes in symptomatic samples and a higher percentage of betaproteobacteria in asymptomatic samples.

this demonstrates that the species detected as most abundant by 16s rrna pcr and sequencing differed between hospitals and sample groups and did not allow the distinction between symptomatic and asymptomatic tivaps.in order to compare community structures we calculated total species evenness e for symptomatic and asymptomatic samples and the mean slope of the rank abun- dance curves for each sample group .

whereas routine microbiology analysis yielded negative culture results for almost all asymptomatic samples culture-independent 16s rrna gene clone library generation identified bacteria as present in all clinically symptomatic as well as asymptomatic chambers.

