20161301169-80.davis c peters d warshauer d king j budowle b. sequencing the hypervariable regions of human mitochondrial dna using massively parallel sequencing improved methods for dna sam- ples encountered in forensic testing.

200247773-85.flores sk sun j king j budowle b. validation of the globalfilertm express pcr amplification kit for the direct am- plification of single-source dna samples on a high-throughput automated workflow.

1977745463-7.wilson mr polanskey d butler j dizinno ja replogle j budowle b. extraction pcr amplification and sequencing of mitochondrial dna from human hair shafts.

in 1985 alec jeffreys applied a dna multi- locus probe to hybridize to various repetitive regions in the human genome and directly interrogated dna from forensic samples to help link two rape-murders in leicester  .

capillary electro- phoresis ce which sorts dna products by their size and enables their detection because of a set fluorescent labels that have been attached to the dna molecules during pcr  .

this general dna typing workflow is used by essentially all forensic laboratories worldwide that analyze biological evidence.forensic dna typing to characterize biological evidence either directly i.e.

many countries have established dna databanks that contain dna profiles from convicted offenders arrestees and foren- sic samples from unsolved cases  .

dna profiles from biological evidence can be searched against dna profiles from for example convicted offenders or other unknown source evidence samples to develop associations that can support investigative leads.

one example of a successful dna database program is the combined dna index system codis developed by the fbi.

body fluid identification by integrated analysis of dna methylation and body fluid-specific microbial dna.

20101131-46.shendure j ji h. next-generation dna sequencing.

2016372822-31.churchill jd chang j ge j rajagopalan n lagace r liao w et al.

201728146-54.zeng x king j hermanson s patel j storts dr budowle b. an evaluation of the powerseqtm auto system a multiplex short tandem repeat marker kit compatible with massively parallel se- quencing.

199661 216-28.weber-lehhmann j schilling e gradl g richter dc wiehler j rolf b. finding the needle in the haystack differentiating 'iden- tical' twins in paternity testing and forensics by ultra-deep next generation sequencing.

since that ground-breaking application of dna fingerprint- ing took place the field of forensic genetics has advanced substantially by 1 exploiting advances in molecular biology2 developing sound statistical analyses based on population genetics principles 3 implementing stringent quality assur- ance standards and 4 promoting open and constructive de- bate within and outside the forensic community.

