Sys- tematic review with meta-analysis faecal microbiota transplantation for the induction of remission for active ulcerative colitis.

Short duration low intensity pooled faecal microbiota transplantation induces remission in patientswith mild-moderately active ulcerative colitis a randomised controlled trial.

Sys- tematic review with meta-analysis faecal microbiota transplantation for the induction of remission for active ulcerative colitis.

Multidonor intensive faecal microbiota transplantation for active ulcerative colitis a ran- domised placebo-controlled trials.

Fecal microbiota transplanta- tion induces remission in patients with active ulcerative colitis in a randomised controlled trial.

Bacteriophage transfer during faecal microbiota transplantation in Clostridium difficile infection is associated with treatment outcome.

Sci Transl Med 20179pii eaah4680.DOI 10.1111apt.14246Editorial faecal microbiota transplantation for ulcerative colitis--not quite there yet Authors' replyWe thank Drs Lim and Radford-Smith for their interest in our article.12We agree that if pooled donor stool is to be used in clinical prac- tice then this will require stool banking.

Modern screening protocols yield donor pass rates of only 2.8 to 10 and so many potential donors need to be screened before a suitable donor or donors can be found.45 All of which makes stool banking the only sensible approach if FMT is to be widely available for either UC or for recurrent C. difficile colitis.Factors associated with FMT success in UC are not well defined yet despite this success rates with induction of remission approach those of modern biological therapy.67 Lim and Radford-Smith point out that a recent diagnosis of UC and less severe endoscopic inflam- mation were identified as potential predictors of FMT response how- ever each of these predictors were only identified in a single study on retrospective analysis.89 Insufficient published data therefore did not allow inclusion of these factors in the meta-analysis conducted.Drs Lim and Radford-Smith make a very good point that the effect of microbial elements other than bacteria such as viruses in- cluding phage and fungi may play a role in the therapeutic effect of FMT.

However despite the existing knowledge gaps thereseems sufficient evidence to support FMT as an option for remission induction for carefully selected patients where facilities and resources are available.

Editorial faecal microbiota transplanta- tion for ulcerative colitis--not quite there yet Aliment Pharmacol Ther.

