nat rev microbiol 201614563-75.fontes de mills al hornberger gm et al.

fems microbiol ecol 20138626-35.rubinstein rl kadilak al cousens vc et al.

one gram of surface soil may contain 109-1010 prokaryotic cells bacteria and archaea 104-107 protists 100 m of fungal hyphae and 108-109 viruses srinivasiah et al.

bates et al.

soils also host tremendous ge- netic diversity community dna reassociation methods torsvik and ovrea s  have shown that the total genomic diversity of bacterial communities from unperturbed pasture soils may exceed the diversity found in aquatic communities by three or- ders of magnitude with the highest diversity estimates ranging from thousands to millions of distinct prokaryotic species or otus operational taxonomic units per gram of soil torsvik and ovrea s  torsvik ovrea s and thingstad  gans wolin- sky and dunbar  schloss and handelsman  roesch et al.

moreover a few grams of soil contain hundreds of fungal and protistan species bates et al.

our limited knowledge of biodiversity and its links with specific ecosystem functions has motivated several soil metagenomics initiatives in the past few years nesme et al.

notably the terragenome consor- tium in 2009 vogel et al.

in 2015 a group of re- searchers called for a unified international microbiome initia- tive alivisatos et al.

these large research campaigns have resulted in a wealth of genomic information but it has also been suggested that har- nessing the full potential of such data requires their integra- tion into coherent ecological and theoretical frameworks that would enable systematic study of long-standing questions and test hypotheses and new theories prosser et al.

a fundamental trait of soil functioning is its structure the arrangement of particles of varying sizes of- ten glued by soil organic matter that defines the complex pore spaces inhabiting microbial life retaining water and nutrients and providing pathways for gas transport and cell dispersion crawford et al.

what are the ecological and evolutionary mechanisms that fos- ter microbial diversity what dynamics govern the distribution of diversity over space and time what are the links between microbial diversity and the emergent functions of soil ecosys- tems knowledge has not advanced yet to adequately address these daunting questions partly because of the complexity of the intertwined deterministic and stochastic processes at play dumbrell et al.

stegen et al.

the present re- view follows the footsteps of studies that highlighted the crucial role of biophysics in soil microbial ecology young and crawford  or et al.

young et al.

