opinionplant hormones key players in gut microbiota and human diseasesemilie chanclud1it is well established that plant hormones such as auxins cytokinins cks and abscisic acid aba not only govern important plant physiological traits but are key players in plant-microbe interactions.

we propose here and explore the hypothesis that plant hormones play roles in animal-microbiota relation- ships with consequences for human health.can plant hormones affect human physiology and gut microbiotamicrobes have shaped the environment for billions of years intimately coevolving with other organisms .

we illustrate this concept with examples of how plant hormones affect human diseases such as diabetes inflammatory bowel disease ibd and cancers which are also modulated by the gut microbiota .type 2 diabetes plant hormones on firethe plant stress hormone aba is synthesized by human and is structurally close to the retinoic acid ra  an essential signaling molecule for human development.

9 c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.correspondence b. lacombe.figure 1. could plant hormones derived from the diet or microbes impact on human health plants produce plant hormones to manage their physiology and to affect their microbial environment.

however these hormones also affect microbes and presumably would further perturb the imbalanced micro- biota of diabetic patients .inflammatory disorders plant hormones as immunomodulatorsseveral immune disorders are related to the interplay between dietary habits and the gut microbiota .

however the role of these hormones in human pathogen virulence and microbe-induced cancers remains unexplored.other plant hormones also impact on cell-cycle regulation .

a poorly appreciated fact however is that both microbes and animals produce and perceive plant hormones and their mimics.

moreover dietary plant hormones impact on human physiological process such as glucose assimilation inflammation and cell division.

this leads us to wonder whether plant hormones could ensure functions in microbes per se as well as in animal-microbe interactions.

unraveling how the microbiota affects host fitness has become a major challenge for scientists .on the one hand plant hormones regulate plant physiology and shape the plant microbial environment .

on the other commensal symbiotic and pathogenic microbes secrete and mimic plant hormones to alter their hosts and microbial communities .

a poorly appreciated fact is that animals including humans produce and perceive plant hormones .

remarkably these hormones are known to affect glucose homeostasis inflammatory responses and cellular processes .

we propose here that plant hormones acquired from the diet or produced by the human gut microbes impact on human health .

similarly microbes produce plant hormones to manipulate host plants.

