thus in short for each case we matched 6 controls.resultsstudy populationamong the 3654 very-preterm infants admitted to nicus during the study period 167 died within the first 7 d leaving 3487 alive at day 7. among those 3161 infants were enrolled in this study figure 1. these infants were hospitalized in 64 nicus 106 with nec and 3055 controls.

nutritional nicu profiles concerning direct-breastfeeding policy b. each nicu was classified as less favorable intermediate or more favorable to direct- breastfeeding according to the difference between the observed and the expected rate of partially direct-breastfed infants at day 28. the rate of infants in contact with the mother's breast during the first week and the rate of breastfed infants at day 28 partial direct-breastfeeding and at discharge total direct-breastfeeding were compared between nicu profiles according to gestational age.

moreover implementation of the quality-improvement initiative reduced the nec rate 8.several studies suggested that nec is associated with both unusual intestinal microbial species and an overall reduction in the diversity of the microbiota 9-14. fecal microbiota diversity in preterm infants born at a gestational age of 32 wk who are at the highest risk of nec increases much more slowly than in more mature infants and composition is dominated by staphy- lococci enterobacteria and enterococci with a very low abun- dance of anaerobes except clostridia 15. to date there is no consensus as to which specific bacterial strains are causally associated with nec development.

we hypothesized 1 that nutritional strategies are associated with risk of nec and 2 based on our previous clinical 21 and ex- perimental 25 observations that clostridia colonization would differ between nec cases and controls.methodscohort epipage2 and ancillary epiflore studiesepipage 2 is an ongoing birth cohort study performed in 68 nicus in france 24. eligible children were those born at 24- 31 wk of gestation admitted to the nicus recruiting .10 infants to be able to characterize the nutritional strategies of the nicu and alive at day 7 including transferred infants.

similarly we compared the proportion of infants in contact with the breast of the mother during the first week and the proportion of directly breastfed infants at discharge between the 3 nicu profiles concerning direct-breastfeeding policy.

the nicu patient volume was not significantly dif- ferent between these 3 groups of nicus supplemental figure 3. infants hospitalized in the 11 nicus with a faster strategy received more enteral volume at day 3 and day 7. enteral feeding started earlier and parenteral feeding was discontinued earlier in these nicus supplemental table 1 figure 2a.824roze' et al.figure 1 flowchart of infants enrolled in the study.

nec necrotizing enterocolitis nicu neonatal intensive care unit.partial direct-breastfeeding at day 28 was significantly deter- mined by characteristics of the mother such as birth nationality p  0.04 professional activity p  0.005 and marital status p  0.03. it was also associated with some characteristics of the pregnancy such as multifetal gestation pregnancy p  0.007 and hypertension during pregnancy 0.04. partial direct-breastfeeding at day 28 was significantly dependent on characteristics of the preterm infant such as gestational age p  0.001 and birth weight z score p  0.001. the mean difference between the observed and the expected percentage of breastfed infants at day 28 per nicu was 1 6 8. among the 64 nicus the observed percentage of breastfed infants at day 28 was 27 range 217 to 28 below the expected percentage in 12 nicus these nicus were classified as nicus less favorable to breast- feeding.

n is the number of preterm infants with the characteristic   n3161 infants.2 n is the number of preterm infants with necrotizing enterocolitis   nn.3 crude or assessed by logistic regression.4 or adjusted for all individual variables included in the table assessed by logistic regression.5 birth weight is not included in logistic regression.6 mean 6 sd.clostridiaceae.

design we performed a prospective nationwide population-based study epipage 2 etude epide'miologique sur les petits ages ges- tationnels including preterm infants born at 32 wk of gestation in france in 2011. from individual characteristics observed during the first week of life we calculated a propensity score for the risk of nec bell's stage 2 or 3 after day 7 of life.

an ancillary propensity- matched case-control study epiflore etude epide'miologique de la flore in 20 of the 64 nicus analyzed the intestinal micro- biota by culture and 16s ribosomal rna gene sequencing.results among the 3161 enrolled preterm infants 106 3.495 ci 2.8 4.0 developed nec.

parents of participants provided oral informed consent.outcomethe primary outcome was nec after postnatal day 7. all infants were prospectively monitored for signs and symptoms of nec.

infants who met criteria for spontaneous intestinal perforation which differs from nec in terms of risk factors and pathophysiology 27 28 were excluded from this study.perinatal and early neonatal individual risk factorsrecorded variables included gestational age birth weight z score multiple pregnancy gestational age sex birth weight z score based on olsen's curves according to gestational age 29 antenatal corti- costeroids main pregnancy complications birth in the same hospital in which nicu is located or not mode of delivery apgar score tracheal intubation at birth respiratory distress syndrome mode of sedation or analgesia hemodynamic failure suggested by clinical signs andor abnormal laboratory results andor echocardiographic findings 30 early neonatal infections and intestinal transit during the first week.

the expected percentage of infants with a low enteral volume for each nicu was estimated by the average individual probability of each infant hospitalized in the nicu see supplemental material.

we calculated for each nicu the difference between the observed percentage and expected percentage of infants receiving a low enteral volume.

accordingly the expected the percentage of partially direct-breastfed infants at day 28 for each nicu was estimated by the average individual probability of each infant hospitalized in the nicu supplemental methods.

