scholars have investigated the most cited articles that describe the advances in varies specialties and subspecialties included diabetes research10-13 which helped recognizing the quality of the works discoveries and the trends steering the study.1415 as numbers of literatures and researches reported that the microbiota was the important mechanism to influence the diabetes pathogenesis there is a need to conduct a bibliometric study on the published literature relating to microbiota of diabetes to investigate the important mechanism of this disease reflected in trends.thus the aim of this study was to provide a detailed evaluation of the hundred most cited articles in microbiota of diabetes research using bibliometric analysis hoped to get the insights ofmicrobiota of diabetes by analyzing the authorship number of citations h-index citation density source journal geographic origin and interactions scientific research institution article type and funding source.materials and methodsthe web of science database was used to identify the top articles concerning microbiota of diabetes from the beginning of the database to august 12 2016. microbiota and diabetes were used as search term.

and juvenile diabetes research foundation had supported 11 of the t100 articles.discussiona number of research works on microbiota the important pathogenesis mechanism of diabetes have exponentially grown during the past decades and currently involve many other specialties.1819 in this study we sought to identify the most- cited 100 articles in microbiota of diabetes in an effort to provide insights into the development and evolvement of microbiota of diabetes over time.as all the selected articles were published after 2007 the number of citations for the t100 articles varied from 1289 to 35 which might be fewer than those in other subspecialties.101113 however it also reflects that scholars paid much attention onproceedings of the national academy of sciences of the united states of america3microbiota of diabetes continuously in latest years and published many outstanding researches on top journals in the medical areascience2gastroenterology.2isme journal2journal of immunology2nature reviews gastroenterology  hepatology2nutrients2current opinion in clinical nutrition and metabolic care2that aroused widespread response.

among them top journals published 20 of the t100 including nature n 5 science n 2 cell n 5 and their series journals n 8. and another 35 articles published in the peak journal in the field of diabetes microbiology and gastroenterology such as diabetes n 7 diabetologia n  7 lancet diabetes endocrinol n 1 gut n 5 gastroenterology n 2 and isme j n 2. it is well aware that outstanding articles tend to be published in journals with high impact factor if and high if journals help spread the articles' academic influence.although 77 of the t100 were published in 2010-2013 several articles with high citation density published in recent 2 years which made them accumulate relatively low total citations due to less time such as kostic et al2015 shin et al 2014 and zeevi et al2015.

usa n 32 and belgium n 22 were the leading countries in this field followed by france n  18 and finland n  16. patrice d. cani contributed the most top cited articles n  15.conclusion this bibliometric study is likely to include a list of intellectual milestones focused on microbiota of diabetes research in the past decade which provides insights into the circumstances and trends in preventing and treating diabetes from a new perspective.abbreviations dm  diabetes mellitus rct  randomized clinical trial tcm  traditional chinese medicine inserm  institut national de la sante et de la recherche medicale oha  oral antidiabetic drug rygb  roux-en-y gastric bypass scfa  short- chain fatty acids.keywords academic influence bibliometric analysis diabetes microbiota web of scienceintroductiondiabetes mellitus dm has become an important public health problem worldwide.12 however the glucose control was not satisfying.34 it is urging to expand the mechanism exploration and develop strategies of treatment.

idf diabetes atlas global estimates for the prevalence of diabetes for 2015 and 2040. diabetes res clin pract 201712840-50.yang w lu j weng j et al.

despite these limitations we provided insights into the new focus about the characteristics on microbiota of diabetes in the past decade.conclusionin this study we analyzed the 100 most cited articles focused on microbiota of diabetes via bibliometric approaches.

the aim of this study was to provide a detailed evaluation of the hundred most cited articles in microbiota of diabetes research.methods the database of the web of science was utilized for identification of articles.

all the selected articles were published after 2007. basic science and review and expert opinion were the majority of the t100 articles which aided the development and optimization of pathogenesis and treating diabetes.

a total of 66 articles shared the same country respectively 17 articles had 2 countries and 17 articles had 3 countries or more.

institut national de la sante et de la recherchemedicale inserm in france and universite0 catholique de louvain in belgium produced 15 of the t100 articles respectively followed by university of helsinki in finland 12 university of copenhagen in denmark 9 and wageningen university in the netherlands 8. sixty-six articles had more than 1 institution and 22 articles had 5 institutions or more.

85 of all the t00 articles have h-index 10. it meant that these articles were cited by at least 10 articles which had at least 10 citations.

to know that the prevalence and the treatment of diabetes are not so exceedingly satisfying in developing countries with larger population4041 and the condition to carry out clinical research on microbiota of diabetes seems not to be maturein these countries we hope that the study related would produce excellent and influential results and benefit the dm treatment in these countries and worldwide.changes in lifestyle and increase in fat-enriched diet are important contributors to the worldwide dm and obesity epidemic and the microbial inhabitants of the gut could have an influence on metabolic processes thus the pathogenesis and treatment of t2dm associated with microbiota have been extensively studied n 30. however the relationship between microbiota and t1dm cannot be ignored.

prevalence of diabetes and prediabetes impaired fasting glucose andor impaired glucose tolerance in urban and rural india phase i results of the indian council of medical research-india diabetes icmr-indiab study.

among them diabetes n  7 diabetologia n  7 and plos one n 7 published the most t100 articles.

around 100 most cited articles were obtained and reviewed.every identified article was evaluated to guarantee that microbiota of diabetes was the major subject of the research regardless of the article type and language.

