the media per l contains 0.3 g of l-cysteine hydrochloride0.3 g of sodium thioglycolate 1.2 g of beef liver extract powder 2.2 g of beef extract 2.5 g of kh2po4 3.0 g of glucose 3.0 g of soya peptone3.0 g of nacl 5.0 g of soluble starch 5.0 g of yeast extract 10.0 g of tryptone 10.0 g of proteose peptone 13.5 g of digestible serum powder and 1000 ml of distilled water.

the ph was adjusted to 7.3. the perfusion fluid consists of 0.3 g of l-cysteine hydrochloride 0.3 g of sodium thioglycolate 2.5 g of kh2po4 3.0 g of glucose 3.0 g of nacl5.0 g of soluble starch and 1000 ml of distilled water.

online monitoring of astragaloside ii metabolism using a homemade cultural device coupled with microdialysis and ultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometryxue li zifeng pi shu liu wei wang zhiqiang liu fengrui songa national center of mass spectrometry in changchun jilin province key laboratory of chinese medicine chemistry and mass spectrometry changchun institute of applied chemistry chinese academy of sciences changchun 130022 chinab the base state key laboratory of the ministry of agriculture agricultural products quality and safety  institute of quality and standard for agriculture productszhejiang academy of agricultural science hangzhou 310021 chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords astragaloside cyclodextrin intestinal microbiota microdialysisultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometrya b s t r a c t a new system was described for the online monitoring of astragaloside ii aii metabolism in intestinal microbial community.

7. typical chromatograms of incubates of aii with rat intestinal bacteria for 24 h. a offline incubation and b online incubation.indicating the feasibility of applying the online system into the bio- transformation monitoring of glycosides in rat gut bacteria.

the anaerobic medium containing an inactivated intestinal flora and aiv was used as a microdialysis medium.

5. time course of aii metabolism by rat intestinal bacteria for 24 h. aii a aivb aii-iso-1c aii-iso-2d cbe bbf cag and ca-2hh.ca-2h might be formed from ca by dehydrogenation.comparison between online and offline methodsmoreover we also investigated the metabolism of aii in rat gutbacteria through offline incubation.

the following procedures for the online analysis of the metabolites were accomplished by uplc-ms.offline incubation and manual sampling and clean-up procedurethe same bacterium solution with 0.05 mg ml-1 of aii as above mentioned was placed in plastic tubes and then were cultured in an anaerobic chamber system thermo fisher waltham ma usa at 37 degc for 24 h. a total of 0.5 ml of samples was taken after incubation for 0 12 and 24 h. these samples were extracted twice with 0.5 ml of n-butanol during the manual clean-up procedure.

the resulting precipitates were resuspended in 10 ml of anaerobic medium to be used as a me- tabolic intestinal flora source in this work.

aii exhibited a significant decrease in rat intestinal bacteria and it was depleted from the system at 4 h after the start of incubation.

meanwhile aiv was observed after the start of incubation and then was eliminated slowly after 6 h. cyclogaleginoside b cb exhibited a segmented increase in rat intestinal bacteria.

as a proof of principle study the online monitoring of the dynamic metabolismprocess in intestinal microbiota and the action of b-cds on minimizing the matrix effect were expected.

its amount showed a significant increase in the first 4 h and the last 3 h of the incubation while maintained at ap- proximately constant from 5 h to 20 h of incubation.

at about 7 h of incubation it reached maximal yield and then decreased rapidly from the system during the following 5 h. the amount of cycloastragenol ca showed an insignificant increase in the first 12 h of incubation yet increased rapidly at 14 h. the production of ca-2h was not detectable within the first 13 h whereas it showed a significant increase at 14 h.according to the above-mentioned time course and the character-istics of chemical structures of these metabolites the metabolic pathway of aii in rat gut bacteria was proposed.

the ph was adjusted to 7.3.establishment of the microdialysis modulecma 20 elite probes cmamicrodialysis acron ma usa with a 10 mm long polyarylethersulfone membrane and 20000 molecular weight cutoff were used in this experiment.

the two microdialysis catheters used as the inlet and the outlet of dialysate were threaded through the rubber plug.

