c. antolin m. artiguenave f. blottiere h. m. almeida m. brechot c. cara c. chervaux c. cultrone a. delorme c. denariaz g. dervyn r. foerstner k. u. friss c. van de gu- chte m. guedon e. haimet f. huber w. van hylckama-vlieg j. jamet a. juste c. kaci g. knol j. lakhdari o. layec s. le roux k. maguin e. merieux a. melo minardi r. m'rini c. muller j. oozeer r. parkhill j. renault p. rescigno m. sanchez n. sunagawa s. torrejon a. turner k. vandemeule- brouck g. varela e. winogradsky y. zeller g. weissenbach j. ehrlich s. d. bork p. enterotypes of the human gut micro- biome.

nat rev immunol 2016 16 1 22-34.berk m. williams l. j. jacka f. n. o'neil a. pasco j. a. moylan s. allen n. b. stuart a. l. hayley a. c. byrne m. l. so depression is an inflammatory disease but where does the inflammation come from bmc medicine 2013 11 1 200.mass m. kubera m. leunis j.-c. the gut-brain barrier in major depression intestinal mucosal dysfunction with an increased trans- location of lps from gram negative enterobacteria leaky gut plays a role in the inflammatory pathophysiology of depression.

a metagenomics analy- sis of the gut microbiome in 124 subjects a cohort com- posed of healthy subjects overweight subjects and inflam- matory bowel disease ibd patients showed that 99 of the genes were bacterial and 1000-1150 species were found in the entire cohort 9 10. each individual harbored at least 160 bacterial species and more than three million microbial genes.recent metagenomic technologies have revealed that the human gut microbiome forms three distinct enterotypes each including the bacteroides prevotella and ruminococcus genera 11. the composition of the gut microbiota depends on an individual's genetic predisposition age nutrition physical activity environmental factors stress infection other diseases and use of antibiotics.developmentthe gut microbiome varies according to age and is gen- erally formed in three stages.

after initiating solid foods the diversity of the gut microbiota increases 16 17. the proportion of anaerobic bacteria classified as firmicutes be- gins to increase 17 and the microbiome becomes similar to that of an adult gut by three years of age 14.factors affecting the structure of the gut microbiomelong-term dietary habits are associated with gut micro- biome compositions.

however it was not associated with lps binding protein suggesting that gut microbiota components other than lps may stimulate immune responses 107. infection of the gi tract with toxoplasma gondii changes the commensal bacte- ria in the intestinal lumen resulting in dysbiosis of gut mi- crobiota 108. a cohort-based case-control study suggested that infection by t. gondii was a risk factor for early-onset schizophrenia 109. bacteriophages have also been associ- ated with schizophrenia as they can alter the metabolism of bacteria and microbial community composition 110. an increased load of the lactobacillus bacteriophage has been detected in the oropharyngeal lumen of patients with schizo- phrenia.although inflammation can contribute to bipolar disor- der the role of gut microbiota is unclear 111. however several observational studies support the concept that bipolar disorder is associated with gut microbiota.

ameri- can journal of physiology-gastrointestinal and liver physiology 2012 302 1 g168-g175.frohlich e. e. farzi a. mayerhofer r. reichmann f. jacan a. wagner b. zinser e. bordag n. magnes c. frohlich e. kashofer k. gorkiewicz g. holzer p. cognitive impairment by antibiotic-induced gut dysbiosis analysis of gut microbiota-brain communication.

clin psychopharmacol neurosci 2016 14 3 231-7.kang d. w. adams j. b. gregory a. c. borody t. chittick l. fasano a. khoruts a. geis e. maldonado j. mcdonough-means s. pollard e. l. roux s. sadowsky m. j. lipson k. s. sullivan m. b. caporaso j. g. krajmalnik-brown r. microbi- ota transfer therapy alters gut ecosystem and improves gastroin- testinal and autism symptoms an open-label study.

psychopharmacology 2012 221 1 155-169.morgan a. p. crowley j. j. nonneman r. j. quackenbush c. r. miller c. n. ryan a. k. bogue m. a. paredes s. h. yourstone s. carroll i. m. kawula t. h. bower m. a. sartorr.

neurogastroenterology  motility 2016 28 7 1027-1036.rao a. v. bested a. c. beaulne t. m. katzman m. a. iorio c. berardi j. m. logan a. c. a randomized double-blind pla- cebo-controlled pilot study of a probiotic in emotional symptoms of chronic fatigue syndrome.

the gut microbiota acquired during vaginal delivery include bifidobacterium lactobacillus and prevotella as predominant genera 12. staphylococcus and corynebacterium are the main genera acquired by newborns born via cesarean section 13. the gut microbiome of a newborn is representative of the bacterial composition of the external environment and the maternal skin and the birth method greatly affects the initial microbial settlement 14 15. breastfed infants at this early stage have a lower diver- sity of gut microflora than infants fed formula but the com- position tends to be more stable.

the elevated activation of stress hormones in gf mice also suggests that the gut micro- biota play an important role in the development of the hpa axis 26.interactionsbetweenthehumancnsandgut microbiotaevidence of the cns affecting gut microbiotathe gut microbiome composition is influenced by emo- tional and physiological stress fig.

gastrointestinal and blood-brain permeability were improved when acute stress caused secretion of corticotro- pin-releasing hormone crh in the cns this activated mast cells which have a high affinity for crh 33. chronic stress also disrupted the intestinal barrier by activating mast cells in turn allowing antibodies microbial metabolites tox- ins and lipopolysaccharides in the gut to enter the systemic circulation and cns.evidence of gut microbiota affecting the cns immune regulationwhen gut microbiota cause an infection the cells can gain access to the cns and directly induce inflammatory reactions.

nevertheless germ-free miceshow lower tyrosine the rate-limiting substrate of noradrenaline and dopamine synthesis levels compared to those in ex-germ-free mice which implies that gut microbi- ota elevate dopamine levels in the brains of germ-free mice 62. such a notion is supported by a study that compared ex-germ-free mice and germ-free mice and found that catecholamine levels were elevated in the brains of germ- free mice but restoring the gut microbiota modulated catecholamine levels via dopamine and noradrenaline turn- over in the brain 63.histamine an immunomodulator and neurotransmitter is involved in the regulatory processes of important functions such as waking cognition circadian rhythm and neuroendo- crine regulation 64. some gut microbiota can synthesize histamine.

the relationship of asd to the gut microbiota began with a consideration of clostridium and a hypothesis that the neurotoxic effects of clostridium were involved in the onset of asd 115. two human gut microbiome studies showed that the number of species belonging to the genus clostrid- ium was greater in fecal specimens of autistic children 116 117. this was supported by studies demonstrating the ap- parent benefits of oral vancomycin administration in asd 118.it has been hypothesized that dysbiosis of the gut micro- biota is involved in the late onset of autism spectrum disor- der accompanied by gastrointestinal symptoms including distention abdominal discomfort and changes in bowel hab-its.

keilbaugh s. a. bewtra m. knights d. walters w. a. knight r. linking long-term dietary patterns with gut microbial entero- types.

