recent findings have linked gut microbiota with lipid metabolism in humans and in mice and causality has been supported by animal trials as reviewed in wang et al.. another recent study showed that the gut microbiota explains part of the variation in blood lipid concentrations in humans the presence or absence of certain species in the gut may be the root cause for aberrant blood lipid levels.we also detected a relation between gut microbiota and low- grade inflammation as higher microbiota richness was linked to lower level of glyca.

to this end a better understanding of the diet-microbiota-metabolism relation- ship during pregnancy is warranted.although the adult gut microbiota is generally considered consolidated external factors such as antibiotic treatment dis- eases and diet may modify the composition and activity of the gut ecosystem.

the aim of this study was to explore the effects of habitual diet and adherence to the recommended diet on gut microbiota serum lipidomics and low-grade inflammation and further the relationship of gut microbiota composition to serum lipidomics and inflammatory markers in overweight and obese pregnant women.methodsin all 100 overweight women in early pregnancy 17 weeks of gestation were included in this study of which complete data for microbiota diet and lipidomics were available from eighty- eight subjects.

p values impact of dietary intake on relative abundance of gut microbiota and impact of gut micro- biota on serum lipidomics were adjusted for multiple com- parison using the benjamini-hochberg method to control the false discovery rate at each taxonomic level.

in group comparisons tukey's honest significant difference hsd tests were per- formed following significant one-way anova for comparing dietary intake and serum zonulin concentration and mann- whitney u tests using bonferroni corrections following sig- nificant kruskal-wallis tests for comparing inflammatory markers serum lipidomics and relative abundance of gut microbiota and gut microbiota richness among the three diet groups.

benjamini-hochberg-adjusted p value.p  002. similar differences were detected in the genus bacter- oides where differences were observed between high-fibremod- erate-fat and low-fibremoderate-fat 256 sd 106 v. 332 sd 119  p  002 and between high-fibremoderate-fat and low- fibrehigh-fat group 256 sd 106 v. 424 146  p  001 4. no statistically significant differences were detected in markers of low-grade inflammation hs-crp p  058 glyca p  016 lps activity p  01 serum lipidomic variables adjusted p  007 after kruskal-wallis test or zonulin concentration p  040 among the three diet groups online supplementary table s2.gut microbiota richness correlates with low-grade inflammationhigher chao1 index r -028 p  0007 spearman's correlation coefficients pd r -024 p  0022 and observed number of otu r -027 p  0009 correlated with lower concentration of glyca but no association was detected between any of the indexes of gut microbiota richness and hs-crp p  022 p  027 and p  026 respectively or serum lps activity p  082 p  083 and p  080 respectively.gut microbiota correlates with serum lipidomicsseveral correlations were observed 3 between relative abundance of gut microbiota and serum lipidomics profiles especially in genus levels of the family of lachnospiraceae which belongs to phylum firmicutes.

roytio et al.discussionthis study showed that diet composition particularly fibre and fat affects the gut microbiota diversity and relative abundance of gut microbes of overweight pregnant women.

even subtle differences in the typical western diet may result in significant differences in the gut microbiota of an otherwise homogeneous population adherence to dietary reference intake was linked to a richer gut microbiota.

british journal of nutrition 2017 118 343-352doi10.1017s0007114517002100c the authors 2017dietary intake of fat and fibre according to reference values relates to higher gut microbiota richness in overweight pregnant womenhenna roytio1 kati mokkala1 tero vahlberg2 and kirsi laitinen11institute of biomedicine university of turku and turku university hospital 20014 university of turku turku finland2department of clinical medicine biostatistics university of turku and turku university hospital 20014 university of turkuturku finlandsubmitted 15 march 2017 - final revision received 16 june 2017 - accepted 24 july 2017abstractthe diet-microbiota-metabolism relationships during pregnancy are mostly unknown.

we explored the effect of the habitual diet and adherence to the dietary reference values on gut microbiota composition and diversity.

further the association of gut microbiota with serum lipidomics and low-grade inflammation was evaluated.

the recommended dietary intake of fibre and fat was related to higher gut microbiota richness and lower abundance of bacteroidaceae.

correlations were observed between gut microbiota richness and glyca and between a few microbiota genera and serum lipoprotein particles.

as a conclusion adherence to the dietary reference intake of fat and fibre was associated with beneficial gut microbiota composition which again contributed to lipidomic profile.

higher gut microbiota richness and nutrient intakes were linked to a lower level of low-grade inflammation marker glyca.

