this aspect deserves further investigation using pre-defined and standardised experimental set-ups.whilst we detected no differences in overall bacterial richness and alpha diversity between h h- and ht groups beta diversity was significantly increased in h and ht subjects when each of these groups were individually compared to the uninfected h- cohort.

a helminth-positive h and helminth-negative h- b regularly treated ht and h- and c h and ht subjects.differentially abundant faecal bacteria in helminth-positive h helminth-negative h- and helminth-negative but regularly treated ht subjects based on lda effect size lefse analysis.

however 'lipid metabolism' p  0.003 'rig-like receptor signalling pathway' p  0.024 and 'apoptosis' p  0.04 were down-regulated in h com- pared with h-ht subjects while the 'biotin pathway' was upregulated in h compared with h-ht p  0.008 .discussionin this study we analysed the effects of patent infections by parasitic helminths as well as of repeated prophylactic administrations of anthelmintics on the composition of the faecalmicrobiota of human volunteers from endemic areas of sri lanka.

nevertheless we detected a significantly increased beta diversity in the microbiota of h compared with the h- counterpart together with compositional changes in the gut microbiota of h h- and and ht subjects thus indicating a distinct effect of both helminth infection and continued prophylactic treatment on the host gut microbiota.

high-throughput sequencing of the bacte- rial 16s rrna gene followed by bioinformatics and biostatistical analyses of sequence data revealed no significant differences in alpha diversity shannon and richness between groups p  0.65 p  0.13 respectively however beta diversity was significantly increased in h and ht when individually compared to h-volunteers p  0.04. among others bacteria of the families verrucomicrobiaceae and enterobacteriaceae showed a trend towards increased abundance in h whereas the leuconostocaceae and bacteroidaceae showed a relative increase in h- and ht respectively.

beta diversity was calculated using weighted unifrac distances and differences in beta diversity were calculated using permdisp permutationalanalysis of multivariate dispersions through the betadisper function .

while this observation supports the findings from a previous study carried out in a cohort of human volunteers experimentally infected with n. americanus  an investigation of the impact of naturally acquired helminth infections on the composition of the gut microbiota of a cohort of ecuadorean children  resulted in contrasting results.indeed while sole infections by t. trichiura could not be associated with detectable changes in microbial richness and alpha diversity the gut microbiota of subjects with concomitant infec- tions by t. trichiura and a. lumbricoides displayed a notable decrease of the latter .

it is plausible to hypothesise that these varying observations could be linked for example to differences in sam- ple sizes in the 'baseline' composition of the gut microbiota of subjects enrolled in parasite species causing the infections hookworms vs. whipworms vs. ascarids andor in the infection stage at which samples were collected acute and chronic in case of experimental infections vs. 'undefined' in case of natural infections.

phylum a class b order c family d genus e species f and otus g. taxa highlighted in blackwhitegreen indicate an overrepresentation in h h- ht respectively.differences in relative abundance of kegg pathways encoded in the faecal microbiota of helminth-positive h helminth- negative h- and helminth-negative but regularly treated ht subjects.

briefly the v3-v4 region was pcr-amplified using universal primers  that contained the illumina adapter overhang nucleotide sequences using the nebnext hot start high-fidelity dna polymerase new england biolabs and the following thermocy- cling protocol using dna 2ngml 2 min at 98c 20 cycles of 15 s at 98c- 30 s at 63c- 30 s at 72c and a final elongation of 5 min at 72c.

characterised by increased beta diversity compared with h- subjects p  0.04  which indicated differ- ences in overall heterogeneity of species composition between sample groups rather than in overall species composition.supervised canonical correspondence analysis cca displaying the compositional distribution of the faecal microbiota between helminth-positive h helminth-negative h- and helminth-negative but regularly treated ht subjects.analysis by lefse also supported by anova identified differences in abundance of indi- vidual taxa at the phylum class order family genus and species level between the three groups .

the microbiota profiling technique used in this study did not allow to investigate the effects that helminth infections or anthelmintic treatment exert on populations of commensal or pathogenic eukaryotes and thus the hypothesis that repeated doses of pyrantel may have resulted in substantial modifica- tions of such populations requires further testing.significant alterations of individual bacterial taxa were detected between h h- and ht subjects.

written informed consent was obtained from all subjects enrolled in the study.study area and characteristics of the populationa total number of 76 subjects from nine villages in four districts of sri lanka were screened for the presence of patent infections by gi nematodes .

in humans the higher beta diversity observed in h individuals compared with the uninfected controls corroborates the hypothesis that helminth infections are accompanied by qualitative and quantitative changes in the composition of the host gut microbiota that are based on data available thus far inconsistent between individuals   .

differences in bacterial alpha diversity shannon diversity and richness between groups as well as in the abundance of individual taxa were evaluated using paired t-test.

