To our knowledge this is the first study to examine sex dependent changes of the gut microbiota composition in response to physical activity as well as the interaction between physical activity and resulting diet preference and feeding patterns.The present study examined the interaction of voluntary wheel running RUN or sedentary conditions SED home-cage diet selection over a 4 week period in male and female Wistar rats.

Research reportSex determines effect of physical activity on diet preference Association of striatal opioids and gut microbiota compositionJenna R. Lee Julie E. Muckerman Anna M. Wright Daniel J. Davis Tom E. Childs Catherine E. Gillespie Victoria J. Vieira-Potter Frank W. Booth Aaron C. EricssonMatthew J. Willa Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Program University of Missouri Columbia MO USA b Christopher Bond Life Sciences Center University of Missouri Columbia MO USA c Department of Psychological Sciences University of Missouri Columbia MO USAd Department of Veterinary Pathobiology University of Missouri Columbia MO USAe Department of Biomedical Sciences University of Missouri Columbia MO USAf Department of Nutrition and Exercise Physiology University of Missouri Columbia MO USAA R T I C L E I N F O Keywords Physical activity Sex differencesNucleus accumbens DopamineOpioids High-fat dietConsumption Feeding Microbiome Voluntary running Diet preferenceA B S T R A C T Previous studies suggest an interaction between the level of physical activity and diet preference.

A High-fat diet Male RUN consumed less high-fat diet than male SED  p  0.05 and female RUN  p  0.05 across the 4 weeks.

B High-sucrose diet Male RUN consumed more high- sucrose diet than male SED  p  0.05 and female RUN  p  0.05 across the 4 weeks.

C High-corn starch diet Male RUN consumed more high- corn starch diet than male SED  p  0.05 and female RUN  p  0.05 across the 4 weeks.

While male RUN consumed less high-fat diet compared to male SED male RUN con- sumed more of both the high-sucrose and high-corn starchcarbohydrate diets resulting in equivalent levels of overall caloric in- take between the male RUN and male SED.

These included a 1 high-fat diet D12492 5.24 kcalgram consisted of 60 fat 20 carbohydrate and 20 protein 2 high-sucrose diet D12450B 3.85 kcalgram con-sisted of 10 fat 70 carbohydrate 35 sucrose and 20 protein3 high-corn starch diet D12450J 3.85 kcalgram consisted of 10 fat 70 carbohydrate 49 corn starch and 20 protein .

Throughout the 4 week diet preference phase SED weighed more thanTable 2Time line of diet preference study.Acclimation week-1Runsed chow only week 0Runsed 3-choice diet week 1-4Fig.

No significant correlation was found in males for wheel running distance and high-fat diet p  0.05 high-sucrose diet p  0.05 and high-corn starch diet p  0.05.

In addition no significant correlation was found in females for wheel running distanceand high-fat diet p  0.05 high-sucrose diet p  0.05 and high- corn starch diet p  0.05.Fig.

