Further clarification that arterial blood pressure did not have a dividing line between normal blood pressure and hypertension was provided by Pickering and co-workers 273 280 281 who studied larger populations to study the frequency distributions of arterial blood pressure in populations and emphasized that there is a continuous relationship between arterial pressure and mortality over a full range of arterial pressure.

The figure shows the circulatory system and pathways that modulate blood pressure containing genes with known mutations that cause monogenic high or low blood pressure syndromes.

Multiple blood pressure loci with opposing blood pressure effects on rat chromosome 1 in a homologous region linked to hypertension on human chromosome 15.

Value of childhood blood pressure measurements and family history in predicting future blood pressure status results from 8 years of follow-up in the Bogalusa Heart Study.

Diabetologia 46 352-358 2003. doi.Kloting I Kovacs P van den Brandt J. Quantitative trait loci for body weight blood pressure blood glucose and serum lipids linkage analysis with wild rats Rattus norvegicus.

16S RNA analysis of the microbiotal compositions combined with plasma short-chain fatty acid profiles revealed that micro- biotal compositions were indeed altered and that the short- chain fatty acids acetate and heptanoate were higher in theS rats transplanted with microbiota from the R rats com- pared with the S rats given microbiota from the S rats 245.

Additional evidence was obtained through popula- tion studies wherein a greater concordance of blood pres- sure was observed within families than between families 226 but such studies also raised the question of additional shared nongenetic environmental factors such as food hab- its within a family that could influence blood pressure.

J Clin Invest 99 577-581 1997. doi.198a.Kren V Qi N Krenova D Zidek V Sladka M Jachymova M Mikova B Horky K Bonne A Van Lith HA Van Zutphen BF Lau YF Pravenec M St Lezin E. Y-chromosome transfer induces changes in blood pressure and blood lipids in SHR.

Lancet 357 686 - 687 2001. doi.Mo R Omvik P Lund-Johansen P. The Bergen blood pressure study offspring of two hypertensive parents have significantly higher blood pressures than offspring of one hypertensive and one normotensive parent.

This Circos plot was drawn and based on the requested analysis conducted by the Rat Genome Database Comparisons of blood pressure BP readings from SSMCW are lower than that of the SSJr rats see FIGURE 2B.

