the gut microbiota is dynamic and bacterial species interact closely either by competition competing for the same nutrients   producing antibacterial substances to regulate other species or by producing nutrients that can be used by other bacteria.as shown in this evaluation numerous subtle changes combined may result in a signifi- cantly different bacterial composition after intervention.

apdcapd automated peritoneal dialysiscontinuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.baseline gut microbiota profile in esrd patients on pdto better understand the compositions of bacterial gut microbiota in esrd patients on pd we first performed a descriptive analysis to evaluate the relative abundance at phyla genus and species levels.

dietary age restriction may thus result in gut microbiota changes that could play a mechanistic role in the previously observed cardio-protection properties.this study represents a step towards addressing this and further experimental and population- based studies are warranted.limitations and conclusioneven though this study identified multiple bacterial species with altered relative abundance after dietary intervention these findings should be read with caution.

com- paring the bacterial species that changed in relative abundance from baseline after intervention delta otus in  to their participation in each pc reveals that prevotella copri clostridium citroniae and clostridium hathewayi contributed solely to pc3 whileone month dage restriction resulted in changes in gut bacterial microbiota.

research articleadvanced glycation end products dietary restriction effects on bacterial gut microbiota in peritoneal dialysis patients a randomized open label controlled trialrabi yacoub1 melinda nugent2 weijin cai2 girish n. nadkarni2 lee d. chaves1 sham abyad1 amanda m. honan1 shruthi a. thomas1 wei zheng3 sujitha.

2017 advanced glycation end products dietary restriction effects on bacterial gut microbiota in peritoneal dialysis patients a randomized open label controlled trial.

in the current pilot study we explored the effects of dietary ages on the gut bacterial microbiota composition in similar patients.

in this pilot study we aimed to evaluate the effect of restricting a habitually high dage consumption on gut microbiota in a group of esrd patients on maintenance pd and hypothesize that dage restriction affects the diversity of bacterial gut microbiota in patients with esrd receiving maintenance pd.materials and methodsstudy participants and enrollmentthis is a randomized open label trial.

the human gut harbors numerous bacterial species and this study is not powered to accurately identify the small changes in all species relative abundance changes.

moreover results of serum age measurements before and after intervention suggest dietary compliance.in summary our findings again confirm that even short-term restriction of dage intake can significantly decrease circulating age levels in renal failure patients on maintenance peri- toneal dialysis and further suggest that this dietary intervention may have an effect in the gut microbiota.

2012 63610-8.pmidcaporaso jg kuczynski j stombaugh j bittinger k bushman fd costello ek et al.

2014 5097500357-60.pmidvaziri nd wong j pahl m piceno ym yuan j desantis tz et al.

dietary age restriction altered the bacterial gut microbiota with a significant reduction in prevotella copri and bifidobacterium animalis rela- tive abundance and increased alistipes indistinctus clostridium citroniae clostridiumnih.

this indicates that dages might affect gut microbiota through negative selection direct toxic effects or positive selection favoring bacterial species overgrowth that can utilize dages as source of energy.

this pilot study was aimed at exploring the effects of dages restriction on the bacterial gut microbiota composition in pd patients.

