Then the mice were randomly divided into 5 groups of 14 mice each 1 normal control NC group in which mice were given the same volume of distilled water and the basal diet was provided ad libitum 2 low dose of LRS3 LD group in which mice were given the same volume of distilled water and fed a modified basal diet with 5 LRS3 3 medium dose of LRS3 MD group in which mice were given the same volume of distilled water and fed a modified basal diet with 10 LRS3 4 high dose of LRS3 HD group in which mice were given the same volume of distilled water and fed a modified basal diet with 15 LRS3 and 5 HAMS group in which mice were given the same volume of distilled water and fed a modified basal diet with 10 high amylose maize starch.

At the beginning of the experiment the body weights of the mice were 18.0 - 1.0 g. The body weights of mice in each group increased over time and the gain rate of mice in the NC group was the greatest among theseTable 2.

After the 12th day the weights of mice in the MD and HD groups were significantly less than those of mice in the LD group p  0.05.

The fecal microbiota of mice fed the medium and high doses of LRS3 displayed the highest degree of similarity at 82 among the different treatments while there was a genetic similarity between the bacteria of mice in the NC and LD groups.

in mice were significantly higher than those of the mice before feeding.

in mice increased as the LRS3 dose increased whereas those of mice fed low doses of LRS3 were not significantly different from those of the NC group.

The contents of SCFAs and lactic acid in mice fed LRS3 and HAMS were significantly greaterthan those in the mice of the NC group at the 15th day.

The produc- tion of lactic acid by starch-utilizing bacteria may play a leading role in the fermentation prophase whereas the metabolism of lactic acid by butyrate-producing bacteria might play a leading role in the fermentation anaphase.From the change of micro- biota structure in mice intestines the levels of starch-utilizingbacteria such as Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium increased by feeding medium and high doses of LRS3 but the content of lactate was not increasing continually and it was normally detected only at low concentrations 5 mmol100 g. This is assumed to reflect lactate utilization by other bacterial species in mice intestines.

The apparent absorption of Mg in mice of the MD and HD groups was higher than in mice of the other groups.

The study of gut microbiota in vivo is more complicated than in vitro.Thus there is limited information on the effects of LRS3 on the in vivo gut microbiota.The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of LRS3 on the gut microbiota in mice and the relationships among the gut bacterial community SCFAs production and mineral absorption.

