this inhibition also explains why au-mediated upregulation of cu resistance deter- minants did not induce cu or au resistance although au was very well able to induce czc-mediated co resistance used as an example for another metal resistance determi- nant any benefit stemming from the expressed metal resistance genes was overcom- pensated by decreased cu resistance due to the au-inhibited cupa major cu efflux system.

the second precultures contained no other metal oe thick line or 100 um niii e cuii  znii oe or coii t. the deviation bars are based on three oe or five all others repeat determinations.edly decreased au resistance in the subsequent liquid main culture  despite the upregulation of cu resistance determinants  .overall au complexes did not prevent the upregulation of co resistance and probably also did not prevent the upregulation of zn and cd resistance which are the other substrates of the czc determinant .

indeed when c. metallidurans wild-type strain ch34pmol28 pmol30 or its plasmid-free derivative strain ae104 were preincubated in 50 or 200 um cuii in dose-response experiments higher cu resistance levels compared to uninduced controls were observed in both strainsfig 1 preincubation of the c. metallidurans cells with cu ions but not au complexes induces cu resistance in liquid culture.

based on the cu resistance of the deletion mutants the importance of these four pib1-type atpases was as follows cupa  copf  rdxi  ctpa1.these data showed that c. metallidurans cells with deletions in the genes for the major cu efflux pump cupa and those for additional cu-exporting p-type atpases hadtable 2 gold and copper resistance of c. metallidurans strains with deletions in the genes for copper-exporting p-type atpasesaagrowth experiments were performed in tmm at 30degc with shaking.

s1 in the supplemental material although one of the upregulated cu resistance determinants copabcd is required for full au resistance .to test whether au complexes would induce any metal resistance at all induction of the czc-mediated cobalt co resistances  by co ions and au complexes were compared see fig.

goldiii was also unable to induce au or cu resistance and cuii unable to induce au resistance despite the upregulation of the respective genes and their previously being to be involved in resistance .

on the other hand presence of au complexes strongly decreased cu resistance and even preincubation with au complexes exerted some negative effect on cu resistance .preincubation with cuii generated a moderate increase in resistance to a cu-au mixture in the main culture compared to untreated control cells solid symbols in  while preincubation with auiii had no similar effect .

in c. metallidurans resistance to niii coii and crvi is mediated by plasmid pmol28 and resistance to znii coii cdii pbii and cuii is mediated by pmol30 .

therefore we hypoth- esize that au complexes interfere with resistance of this bacterium to copper and other transition metal cations which would be an important issue for c. metallidurans survival in auriferous environments since most of these soils contain more cu than au.resultsinduction of metal resistance by metals occurring in auriferous soils.

this demonstrated the importance of the plasmid-encoded cu resistance genes for high-level cu resistance in c. metallidurans.amendment of c. metallidurans with auiii complexes resulted in upregulation of cu determinants as well as a range of other genes  .

similar to the wild-type strain c. metallidurans ch34 preincubation with cuii decreased au resistance in the plasmid-free strain ae104 but increased resistance to a cu-au mixture .fig 3 mics of auiii and cuii in the presence of the other metal.

a mic of auiii of c. metallidurans strain ch34 in the presence of increasing cuii concentrations e. the dashed line represents a linear regression with the function micau  0.96 um - 5.28 x 10-4 x cuii regression coefficient 98.b mic of cuii in the presence of increasing auiii concentrations e. the function is miccu  2.24 mm - 2.05 au in um 91. deviation bars are based on a minimum of four independent biological mic determinations.in summary although cu ions and au complexes were able to cause an upregula- tion of genes required for cu resistance  this upregulation did not lead to metal-induced preadapted cells because a synergistic cu and au toxicity compensated for any benefits stemming from the upregulated cu resistance determinants.

if the presence of au complexes decreases cu resistance by inhibiting the activity of cupa and other cu-exporting p-type atpases the cu resistance of c. metallidurans wild-type cells in the presence of au complexes should be similar to that of mutant strains devoid of these cu efflux pumps.

the presence or absence of the cu chaperone cupc which binds au ions  did not alter cu resistance .single gene deletions of rdxi and copf in strain ch34 and of rdxi in strain ae104 did not decrease cu resistance indicating that cupa is indeed the major cu efflux pump inc. metallidurans.

since cop is required for the full au resistance of c. metallidurans it is the most likely candidate for the cu-inducible cu and au resistance determinant in this bacterium.indeed bacterial communities associated with au deposits are significantly enriched in copa .

