such specific recapitulations of behaviour by the manipulation of a subset of neurons in a precise cortical region is a state- of-the-art experimental demonstration of the link between an individual brain region and distinct behaviours.in a final tour de force using a viral-based technique to determine cellular connections yim andcolleaguesidentified aregionofthecor- tex called the temporal association area tea together with the striatum as the brain areas to which cells in the s1dz project.

these factors too might enhance clonal haematopoiesis and the development of both blood-related and solid tumours.as a body of work research into clonalcraig m. powell hat do pregnancy viral infection gut bacteria the immune response and the function of a neuronalcircuit in the brain have in common more than you might expect according to a pair of studies by kim et al.1 and yim et al.2 reported on pages 528 and 482 respectively.animal studies and epidemiological analysis in humans have shown that if a mother is infected by certain viruses during pregnancy there is a risk that her offspring will develop autism or other neurodevelopmental dis- orders34.

the authors also showed that specific bac-4 6 6  n a t u r e  v o l 5 4 9  2 8 s e p t e m b e r 2 0 1 7  c o r r e c t e d 1 1 o c t o b e r 2 0 1 7figure 1  maternal immune response and the brain circuits underlying atypical offspring behaviour.

they found that neurons in the s1dz connect to neurons in a brain region called the temporal association area tea that influence social behaviours and to neurons in the striatum that affect repetitive behaviours.authors expressed light-sensitive ion channels in the subset of s1dz neurons projecting to the tea stimulation of these neurons in offspring of wild-type mice that had not undergone mia resulted in atypical social behaviours butnot in repetitive behaviours.

the authors could there- fore implicate a subregion of the brain as a key circuit hub foratypical behaviours that resemble features of autism in humans.

they also discov- ered that the two behaviours social and repeti- tive were linked to different brain regions with both regions being modulated to some degree by the s1dz hub.do cortical abnormalities due to maternal viral infections have a role in the development of autism in humans this link has not been clearly established but infections during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy are probably risk factors3 and areas of abnor- mally developed cortex have been identified in individuals with autism7.

additional exper- imental work and analyses of post-mortem brain samples will be required to answer this question.

moreover after antibiotic pretreatment offspring did not show abnor- mal brain development or atypical behaviours revealing a link between microbes present in the pregnant mother and the risk of autism- like features developing in her offspring.the authors investigated which bacteria targeted by the antibiotic might be respon- sible for the changes observed.

when mice lacking the bacteria underwent mia their offspring did not show atypical brain development or behaviour.

yim and colleagues delved further into the underlying mechanism by trying to determine exactly where in the brain the mia-associated abnormalities occur.

microscope analysis of brain regions revealed that abnormalities in the dysgranular zone of the primary somato- sensory cortex s1dz were most closely correlated with the atypical behaviour.

notsatisfied with correlation alone the authors carried out a remarkable series of manipula- tions of this tiny brain region to examine how it affects behaviour.a technique called optogenetics in which animals are genetically engineered to express light-responsive versions of ion-channel pro- teins enabled the authors to use specific wave- lengths of light to control neuronal activation.

when they engineered animals to express such proteins in the s1dz they found that activat- ing this brain region caused atypical social and repetitive behaviours in the offspring of wild-type mice that had not undergone mia.

indeed the authors obtained simi- lar effects on behaviour by using optogenetics either to specifically activate just the excitatory neurons or to inhibit the inhibitory neurons in this brain region.

are not involved in autism in humans these papers still provide valuable insights by revealing the complexity of the interactions between gut bacteria the immune system and brain development.

