the protective role of oestrogens on the vaginal epithelium and the immune system is well described 5-7. in a small study by rollenhagen and asin enhanced hiv replication has been reported in all 16 samples of ectocervical tissue from menopausal women in comparison to only 60 out of 15 tissue samples from premenopausal women 8. an increase in inflammatory markers associated with disease progression and comorbidities has also been noted 8. in addition healthy hiv-uninfected menopausal women might have increased ccr5 expression on endocervical cd4 t cells 9 as well as decreased innate anti-hiv-1 activity in the lower genital tract 10 which could facilitate hiv susceptibility.corresponding author nadia kancheva landolt hiv-nat thai red cross aids research centre 104 rajdamri road pathumwan bangkokthailand 10330 email 204in spite of these biological changes in women after the menopause the few studies available have failed to find differences in clinical outcomes related to hiv disease progression and infectivity between pre- and postmenopausal women 311-13. art-naive postmenopausal women respond to art in the same way as premenopausal women 12. genital tract hiv rna gvl shedding has been reported in women with undetectable plasma hiv rna pvl regardless of age and menopausal status 111415. suppression of pvl with art appears to be the main predictor for reduced gvl shedding and thus reduced risk for hiv transmission 1617.better knowledge on gvl shedding in menopausal women will contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of hiv infection in this target group and of the risks of hiv sexual transmission from menopausal women.

original researchjournal of virus eradication 2017 3 204-207low-level genital hiv shedding in thai hiv-infected women with suppressed plasma viral load after menopausea longitudinal studynadia kancheva landolt1 tanya do1 naruporn kasipong1 rosalin kriengsinyot2 sasiwimol ubolyam1 apicha mahanontharit1 tippawan pankam2 tanakorn apornpong1 anchalee avihingsanon1 jintanat ananworanich1345 nittaya phanuphak23 and surasith chaithongwongwatthana61 hiv netherlands australia thailand research collaboration hiv-nat bangkok thailand2 thai red cross aids research centre bangkok thailand3 search bangkok thailand4 university of amsterdam the netherlands5 us military hiv research program walter reed army institute of research silver spring md usa6 faculty of medicine chulalongkorn university bangkok thailandabstractobjectives first to evaluate the longitudinal changes of hiv rna in genital secretions in hiv-positive women with plasma hiv rna 50 copiesml before and after the onset of menopause.

results were compared to earlier available data for gvl from the same participant before the onset of menopause first time point.results median age at the first time point was 42 years and 52 years at the second time point.

in a longitudinal analysis testing gvl every four weeks for a period of one year found 37 prevalence of detectable gvl with undetectable pvl 14. in addition the authors have reported that some women had detectable gvl over several visits 7 some had intermittently detectable gvl 31 and some had undetectable gvl 46. when considering our study 13 oflow-level genital hiv shedding after menopause 205original researchjournal of virus eradication 2017 3 204-207the participants had detectable gvl before and after menopause 40 at only one of the two time points and 47 had undetectable gvl.the somewhat 'sporadic' nature of gvl shedding has also been described by others 16. some authors have found an association between gvl shedding and factors such as stis vaginal ph a proxy for vaginal dysbiosis and the type of art taken 111621. however such associations were not always confirmed when an undetectable pvl was present 16. therefore the pvl seems to be the main predictor of gvl 161722. as all our study participants had an undetectable pvl it is not surprising that we have not found any association between gvl shedding and these variables.it is worth noting that 73 of our study participants had laboratory findings consistent with vaginal dysbiosis including reduced lactobacillus spp.

with antiretroviral therapy art more hiv-positive women are surviving and entering the menopause 1. furthermore there is an increase in new hiv diagnoses among women 40 years 2. hiv status does not seem generally to influence either the age at menopause onset nor menopausal symptoms 34 although data are still scarce in this field.menopause is a natural biological process.

inclusion criteria included women in natural menopause second time point with at least one result of gvl available resultstored sample of vaginal secretions from earlier studies first time point.

these women could possibly then be in menopause second time point while being at reproductive age with regular natural menstrual periods during the earlier study first time point.

out of 15 participants 12 80 had at least one non-communicable comorbidity which in 83 was a metabolic syndrome.genital viral shedding and inflammatory markerslow-level gvl shedding was common before menopause four participants 27 and after menopause six participants 40 table 1. gvl was 1000 hiv-1 copiesml in all but one measurement first time point.

the high prevalence of non-communicable diseases after menopause requires special attention and comprehensive care.keywords hiv and women menopause genital viral shedding metabolic syndromeintroductionwomen represent approximately half of all hiv-positive individuals.

hiv aids auckl 2015 7 1-10.kanapathipillai r hickey m giles m. human immunodeficiency virus and menopause.menopause 2013 20 983-990.kojic em wang cc cu-uvin s. hiv and menopause a review.

median time since the onset of menopause was 2 years and 33 of women were sexually active.

the gvl before menopause was 50 copiesml in 27 of the participants and in 40 after menopause.

there was no significant difference between the two time points p0.687.intermediate vaginal flora or bacterial vaginosis was found in 73 of participants during the second time point.

all participants should have had an undetectable pvl 50 hiv-1 copiesml at the time of gvl testing first and second time points.

of these 17 women corresponded to the inclusionexclusion criteria and were enrolled in this study between january 2016 and june 2016. non-eligibility reasons were loss to follow-upreferred to another hospital n35 regular menstrual period n38 menopause during the first time point hysterectomy n8 not willing to participate in the studydeath n8.fifteen women contributed to the analysis.

