interestingly the number of bacteria within host cells remained constant over time highlighting the ability of both 36 st78 and 150 st2 isolates to survive within cells without intracellular replication .

noteworthy even at 48 h after infection monolayers remained intact and infected cells showed cell morphology and nuclear shape indistinguishable to uninfected cells data not shown.discussionthis study was aimed at identifying important phenotypic and molecular virulence traits of a new and common sts belongingcells  .

however in our experimental conditions and despite ompa overexpression monolayers remained intact and cell morphology and nuclear shape of cells infected with either 36 st78 or 150 st2 isolates were indistinguishable to uninfected cells even at 48 h post-infection data not shown.

acinetobacter baumannii invades epithelial cells and outer membrane protein a mediates interactions with epithelial cells.

despite the presence of both ompa and phosphorylcholine-porind and the ability of all the strains to adhere to cells invasion and survival within pneumocytes was shown only by st2 and st78 isolates sharing the highest number of identified omps.

conversely notwithstanding genetic and omps similarities with st2 st632 was unable to invade and survive within epithelial cells.

baumannii isolates such as biofilm formation adherence to human epithelial cells invasion motility and cytotoxicity        .

to this group belongs the well known ompa protein which has been shown to be implicated in adherence to and invasion of epithelial cells in biofilm-forming activity in antimicrobial resistance and cell death as well as the omp33-36 also known as 34 kda      .

likewise porind an omp belonging to the oprd family containing the small molecule phosphorylcholine was shown to be involved in bacterial adherenceinvasion of eukaryotic cells and carbapenem resistance    .

furthermore the two-partner secretion system tps fhabfhac was shown to be involved in mediating tight adherence to eukaryotic cells  .therefore the aim of the present work was to use a wide approach to examine cell surface virulence factors of sts commonly isolated in italian hospitals i.e.

omp profiles motility biofilm formation adherence to invasion of and survival within human lung epithelial cells were compared among sts and the atcc 17978 reference strain.

additional omps shared by different sts are needed for crab invasiveness and survival within the host cells.

briefly bacterial cells were sonicated treated with n-lauryl-sarcosine and resuspended in cracking dye 2 sds 20 glycerol 62.5 mm tris-hcl ph 6.8 0.05 bromophenol blue and 5 b-mercaptoethanol wces were denatured for 10 min whereas omps for 5 min.

at each time point cells were washed three times with pbs and lysed with 0.1 triton x-100.

cell morphology and chromatin condensation of infected and uninfected cells were evaluated by phase contrast and fluorescence microscopy respectively.

