the recombinant strain l. lactis nz9000pnzplcdi induced with nisin a displayed full resistance to plca while strains l. lactis nz9000pnzplcd and l. lactis nz9000pnzplci induced with nisafig 3 a antimicrobial activity of the cfs of l. plantarum ni326 and nisin a-induced l. lactis nz9000pnzplc against a. acidoterrestris sp1.

the immunity of wild-type l. lactis nz9000 and recombinantstrains l. lactis nz9000pnzplcd l. lactis nz9000pnzplci and l. lactis nz9000pnzplcdi was tested against the cfs from lb.

plantarum ni326 against cultures of l. lactis nz9000pnz8048 l. lactis nz9000pnzplcd l. lactis nz9000pnzplci andl.

lactis nz9000pnzplcdi uninduced - or induced  with nisin a.fig 4 maldi-tof mass spectrometry analysis of the purified plantaricyclin a produced by l. lactis pnzplca a and l. plantarum ni326 b. int.

no antimicrobial activity was lost when plca was adjusted to ph values 2 to 10. the antimicrobial activity of plca was completely lost when treated with proteinase k and pronase whereas pepsin and a-chymotrypsin treatments resulted in the retention of 100 and 78 of the initialantagonistic antimicrobial activity respectively results not shown.the resistance of circular bacteriocins to temperature ph variations and proteolytic enzymes is due mainly to their three-dimensional conformation.

subgroup i encom- passes circular bacteriocins with a high content of positively charged amino acids and a high isoelectric point pi 10. this includes the best-studied circular bacteriocin enterocin as-48  together with other bacteriocins such as carnocyclin a  circularin a  lactocyclin q  and garvicin ml .

the whole genome was analyzed with the web-based bacteriocin genome mining tool bagel3   to search for known andor potential novel bacteriocins.cloning of the plc gene cluster in l. lactis nz9000.

bacteriocins such as the lantibiotic nisin a or the circular bacteriocin enterocin as-48 have shown some promising results when used as strat- egies to inhibit growth of a. acidoterrestris in juices  .isolation and identification of lactobacillus plantarum ni326.

food microbiologyplantaricyclin a a novel circular bacteriocin produced by lactobacillus plantarum ni326 purification characterization and heterologous productionjuan borreroa eoin kellya paula m. o'connorbc philip kellehera colm scullyd paul d. cotterbc jennifer mahonyac douwe van sinderenacaschool of microbiology university college cork cork ireland bteagasc food research centre moorepark fermoy cork ireland capc microbiome institute university college cork cork ireland dcoca cola company brussels belgiumabstract bacteriocins from lactic acid bacteria lab are of increasing interest in recent years due to their potential as natural preservatives against food and bever- age spoilage microorganisms.

in this study we describe a circular antimicrobial peptide plca for a lactobacillus plantarum strain.keywords circular bacteriocin alicyclobacillus acidoterrestris lactobacillus plantarum immunityacteriocins are ribosomally synthesized antimicrobial peptides produced by bac- teria to inhibit the growth of other often closely related strains .

we report the purification and genetic characterization of a circular gassericin a-like bacteriocin termed plantaricyclin a produced by lactobacillus plantarum ni326 with antimicrobial activity against various microorganisms including a. acidoterrestris sp1.results and discussionalicyclobacillus acidoterrestris is considered to be one of the species with the highest food spoilage impact worldwide .

for this reason bacteriocins may also be useful in human and veterinary applications as a powerful weapon in the ongoing battle against antibiotic resistance including for the treatment of local and systemic bacterial infections .within the different families of bacteriocins circular bacteriocins constitute a unique group of active proteins in which the n- and c-terminal ends are covalently linked to form a circular backbone .

the function of the proteins coded by these two genes is still unknown but their presence in all of the clusters from circular bacteriocins clearly indicates that they play an important role .heterologous production of plca in l. lactis nz9000.

the anti- microbial activity of partially purified plca was the same as the initial antagonistic activity following exposure to temperatures ranging from 30degc to 100degc for 10 min suggesting the relative stability of the bacteriocin.

plantarum ni326 the entire plc cluster was cloned into the nisin-inducible plasmid pnz8048 pnzplc and transformed into l. lactis nz9000 a naturally non-bacteriocin-producing strain.

