a detailed understanding of a healthy coral associated bacterial community is imperative if we need to understand their roles in the coral hol- obiont and coral disease ecology.antagonistic activity of cmab against bacterial pathogensrecently it has been proved by many studies that the bacterial- host symbiotic association was responsible for the production offig.

luteacoral mucus associated bacteria culture dependentantagonistic hemolysisartemia cytotoxicitya b s t r a c t coral mucus is one of the key localization in the coral holobiont as this serves as an energy rich substrate for a wide range of abundant diverse and multifunctional microbiota.

however they are expected to be important for the coral host's physiology in aiding biogeo- chemical cycling and pathogen resistance .0882-4010c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.to date coral reef researchers are probing on the wonders of why corals are feeding these hordes.

.sample collectionthe mucus sample was collected using sterile syringe from the predominant massive solitary scleractinian coral p. lutea from mandapam 9o 170 28.300 n 79o 090 72.100 e 9o 170 28.300 n 79o 09072.100 e palk bay coral reefs  southeast coast of india into asterile falcon tube according to the method of ravindran et al.

studies focusing on the influence spatial and temporal variations of physicochemical parameters in the coral reef environment are progressing all over the world to understand the functioning of coral environment e. in the present study area the physi-cochemical parameters such as ph salinity at and sst were 8.2 330 31 and 27 oc respectively during the sampling time.

in general the density of microbial populations in the coral surface mucus layer was approximately 10 times higher than those in the overlying water column  since coral surface mucus layer is more nutritious than the surrounding seawater.

the bacterial density in coral mucus and seawater samples were in congruence with the earlier reports from coral species of indian waters and porites sp.

ebio-prospecting of coral porites lutea mucus associated bacteria palk bay reefs southeast coast of indian.k.

bio-prospecting the coral mucus revealed the existence of 10.42 antagonistic bacteria against the tested bacterial pathogens.

the privileged coral mucus associated bacterial cmab sol-vent extracts inhibited the bacterial pathogens at 100 mgml mic and ceased the growth at 200 mgmlmbc.

coral reefs are the most diverse and productive compared to most of the marine ecosystems and are widely renowned as the tropical rainforests of the ocean.

the mutualistic associations in the coral reefs serve as the treasure house of rich genetic resources.

they are the holobiont of abundant diverse and specific microbial hordes such as viruses bacteria archaea fungi algae and protozoa inhabiting their gastric cavity carbonate skeleton and the external mucus microlayer .coral surface mucus layer csml aids in capturing prey and feeding cleanse coral surfaces desiccation resistance reproduction and settlement behaviour allows exchange of metabolites organic and inorganic and also acts as a first line defence against multitude of environmental stresses .

this glyco-peptide layer hosts highly diverse microbial communities that are coral species- specific and also geographically distinct e. the microbes in this layer actively interact with the potential pathogens and environ- mental organisms.

hence this microniche draws more importance to represent the status of coral health.

