based on the spatial distribution we categorized the lactobacillus strains into three classes strains with more than 70 cells located in the mucus zone are mucus type strains with more than 70 cells in the mucosa zone are mucosa type other strains show- ing a relative balanced distribution are considered as hybrid type fig.

therefore the disease protection activity of lactobacillus strains in zebrafish is correlated with their spatial dis- tribution in the intestine and strains showing a balanced distribution hybrid type strains are more efficient in disease protection compared with either mucus or mucosa type strains.the phenotypes of three well-studied probiotic lactobacillus strains in zebrafish.

therefore the mechanism underlying the disease protection difference of hybrid and mucosa type strains does not involve a microbiota-mediated effect and other effects directly associated with the host tissue interaction of lactobacillus strains are playing the key role.figure 10. histology he staining of intestine of zebrafish after immersion treatment with lactobacillus strains for 14 days.

moreover using lgg as the model strain we revealed that the spacba pili is a determinant of the spatial distribution and the mechanism underlying the differential disease protection activity of strains with different spatial distribution was investigated.resultsprotection activity of lactobacillus strains is correlated with their spatial distribution in the intestine.

in our study strains from the three distributionfigure 6. spatial distribution of lgg and lgg mutant pb22 in the gut of zebrafish.

p 0.05. con control lgg l. rhamnosus gg pb22 lgg mutant pb22.lgg is one of the most thoroughly studied probiotic strains.

all values are presented as mean-sem p  0.05. gf germ-free zebrafish lgg l. rhamnosus gg pb22 lgg mutant pb22.figure 9. protection ability of lgg and pb22 in gf zebrafish larvae.

we observed a progressive change in the spatial distribution oflactobacillus strains and suggested a division of the strains into three classes mucus type 70 in mucus mucosa type 70 in mucosa and hybrid type others.

from the 49 strains three well-studied strains representing different spatial distribution types were selected for further inves- tigation l. plantarum subsp.

intriguingly we observed a progressive change in the spatial distribution of the tested lactobacillus strains from typical mucus type to typical mucosa type strains.

of the 49 lactobacillus strains tested in the present study 45 strains are from the lab collection centre inner mongolia agricultural university china table .

this injury induction of lgg accords with the higher expression of inflammatory cytokines shortly after treatment and stress-related hsp70 after prolonged immersion in intestine of zebrafish treated with the mucosa type strains lp compared with lb and lr fig.

the different protection ability between lgg and pb22 did not involve the intestinal microbiota however lgg induced injury to the mucosa of zebrafish.

moreover lgg showed a mucosa type distribution with the majority of lgg cells bound in the mucosa zone fig.

next the isogenic pili-deficient lgg mutant strain pb22was used to investigate whether the well-studied mucus-binding pili of lgg influence its spatial distribution.

