however since the ad model used in this study does not reflect the usual biological processes of ad such as ab burden further research is required to investigate the effect of b. breve a1 on ab processing or deposition in other ad models such as traditional app-overexpression mouseor recentlyreported app knock-in mouse.

icv infusion of ab in the rodent brain can mimic aspects of ad and can be useful for developing and evaluating potential new drugs for ad therefore this model has frequently been used as an ad mouse model.

although we could not explore whether b. breve a1 suppresses ab accumulation in the present study we demonstrated that oral administration of b. breve a1 to ad model mice not only improves cognitive function but also suppresses the expression of inflammation and immune-reactive genes that are induced by ab suggesting that b. breve a1 has therapeutic potential for preventing cognitive impairment in ad.

ab venn diagram of shared and unique hippocampal transcripts a in sh vs ab andor sh vs aba and b in sh vs ab andor ab vs aba p 0.05 and fdr  0.05. rna-seq data from 5 mice are presented.

microarray studies using corti- cal extracts from ad patients have shown that inflammatoryimmune response genes are upregulated in ad patients and animal models of ad.

by the time ad is diagnosed its progression is too advanced for treatment making a therapy that reduces ab production or suppresses ab toxicity through oxidative damage or neuronal inflammation particularly attractive.

the mechanism of how acetate ameliorate memory dysfunction in ad mice is one of the important issues to be addressed in future study.until now no clinically successful therapeutic treatment or drug for ad has been reported to date.

however despite ad being one of the most prevalent neurode- generative diseases in aging societies no clinically successful therapeutic strategies for its treatment or prevention have been reported to date.ad is characterized pathologically by the accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles of hyperphosphorylated tau and senile plaques that are mainly composed of amyloid-b ab.

we found that this probiotic can prevent the cognitive dys- function induced by ab indicating its therapeutic potential in ad patients.resultsb.

here we showed that oral administration of b. breve a1 prevented cognitive decline in ad model mice with a reduction in the immune response and neuronal inflammation.ad is the most common type of dementia and is thought to be caused by the accumulation of ab peptides in the brain.

ab plasma scfa levels of ad model mice for acetate a and for propionate and butylate b. n 4 for each group.

in addition additional investigations to clarify the preventive effect of b. brevea1 using tauopathy model mouse are also the important issues to be addressed in future studies.in conclusion the present study demonstrated that oral administration of b. breve a1 to ad model mice not only improved cognitive dysfunction but also suppressed the expression of inflammation and immune-reactive genes induced by ab.

male 10-week-old ddy mice slc inc. shizuoka japan were housed in a room with controlled lighting 12 h light12 h dark and a constant temperature 25 degc and provided with mf diet oriental yeast co. ltd. tokyo japan and water ad libitum.living heat-killed or sonicated b. breve a1 were orally administered to the mice daily by gavaging 1 x 109 organisms in 0.2 ml starting 2 days before ab injection.

these data indicated that b. breve a1 could modulate excessive immune response induced by ab injection leading to ameliorating effect of ab toxicity.

transcriptional analysis was performed on hippocampal tissues of sham-operated mice sh ab25-35 injected mice ab and mice treated with ab and b breve a1 aba.

