in the present study we aimed to investigate the potential of a polyphenol-rich extract from cranberry ce to reverse obesity and associated metabolic disorders in dio-mice.methods mice were pre-fed either a chow or a high fat-high sucrose hfhs diet for 13 weeks to induce obesity and then treated either with ce 200 mgkg chow ce hfhs ce or vehicle chow hfhs for 8 additional weeks.results ce did not reverse weight gain or fat mass accretion in chow- or hfhs-fed mice.

the gut microbiota of hfhs ce mice was characterized by lower firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio and a drastic expansion of akker- mansia muciniphila and to a lesser extent of barnesiella spp as compared to hfhs controls.conclusions taken together our findings demonstrate that ce without impacting body weight or adiposity can fully reverse hfhs diet-induced insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis while triggering a. muciniphila blooming in the gut microbiota thus underscoring the gut-liver axis as a primary target of cranberry polyphenols.c 2017 the authors.

conversely levels of superoxide dismutase sod sod2 glutathione peroxidase gpx and catalase all important constituents of the cell's anti-oxidant defenses were not affected by diet treatment or the interaction of both f. interestingly ce administration reversed the hfhs-induced mrna overexpression of cyclooxygenase-2 cox2 tumor necrosis factor-a tnfa nuclear factor k-light-chain- enhancer of activated b cells nfkb and nfkb inhibitor ikb sug- gesting a broad resolution of diet-induced hepatic inflammation in hfhs-fed ce-treated mice g. consistent with improved he- patic steatosis we found higher mrna levels of peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor a ppara and lower levels of both sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 and 2 srebp12 transcripts in the livers of hfhs ce mice versus hfhs mice h. unexpectedly the mrna expression of pparg and liver x receptor a and b lxrab all nuclear factors linked to lipid anabolism was upregulated in hfhs ce in comparison with vehicle-treated hfhs-fed mice h.we then sought to investigate whether glucose homeostasis and in- sulin sensitivity were affected by ce administration in diet-induced obese mice.

data are expressed as the mean - sem n 14 8e11 p  0.05 p  0.01 and p  0.001.on weighted unifrac distances and revealed a clear diet-induced separation in the microbial composition of chow- and hfhs-fed mice pco1 571 a. treatment also importantly influ- enced the gut microbiota pco2 213 and separated vehicle- and ce-treated microbial communities of both chow- and hfhs-fed mice a. b-diversity changes between hfhs and hfhs ce were accompanied by a drop in the firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio in hfhs ce mice versus vehicle-treated hfhs-fed mice b. lefse analysis disclosed that obesity-driven dysbiosis was mostly explained by a reduction in the populations of barnesiella bifido- bacterium turicibacter anaerostipes and clostridium and an expansion of peptostreptococcaceae clostridiales oscillospira oscillibacter clostridiaceae and anaerotruncus c. admin- istration of ce to chow-fed mice was associated with an increase of clostridiales lachnospiraceae and a. muciniphila d and supplemental figure 1 whereas in hfhs-fed mice ce-treatment was related to expansion of a. muciniphila coprobacillus and barnesiella e and supplemental figure 1.because the presence of a. muciniphila in the gut microbiota has been linked to improved intestinal barrier and mucus layer integrity  we assessed fecal mucin as a readout of mucus layer thickness.

we found a reduction in fecal mucin in hfhs-fed mice as compared to chow-fed mice which tended to be reversed in hfhs ce p 0.06 hfhs vs hfhs ce two-way anova with student-newman-keuls post hoc test .

p  0.05 p  0.01 and p  0.001 for chow vs hfhs p  0.05 p  0.01p  0.001 for hfhs vs hfhs th ce p  0.05 for chow vs chow th ce.

linear discriminant analysis lda effect size lefse was calculated in order to explore the taxa that more strongly discriminate between the gut microbiota of c chow vs. hfhs d chow vs chow ce and e hfhs vs hfhs ce.

from the beginning of week 13 to the beginning of week 21 control groups chow n 8 and hfhs n 8 were orally administered the animal facility's drinking water whereas the treated groups chow ce n 11 and hfhs ce n 10 received a cranberry extract ce 200 mgkg nutra canada quebec canada.

a p-value  0.05 was consideredto indicate statistical significance for the factorial kruskalewallis rank-sum test.resultsce administration throughout 8 weeks did not reverse body weight gain in both chow- and hfhs-fed mice a. accordingly we found similar energy intake and fat mass accumulation when comparing chow versus chow ce and hfhs versus hfhs ce bc.

quantifi- cation of liver triglycerides and oro staining revealed massive tri- glyceride accumulation in the livers of hfhs mice which was fully reversed in hfhs ce mice bed.

ce administration did not reduce triglyceride levels in the liver of healthy chow-fed mice bed and fasting plasma triglycerides were not affected by diet or treatment e.liver mda levels were reduced in hfhs ce mice when compared with vehicle-treated hfhs mice f suggesting lower lipid peroxidation.

despite lower glycemia 5 min after insulin injection in chow ce as compared with chow mice a the overall insulin response was not different between these two groups as suggested by similar area under the ipitt curves b. we found lower glucose excursions 30 90 and 120 min after oral glucose challenge c and reduced area under the ogtt curves d in hfhs ce versus hfhs mice.

glucose tolerance and insulinemia during ogtt were not different between ce-treated and vehicle treated mice on the chow diet cee.fecal dna was extracted and 16s rrna-based microbial profiling was performed in order to investigate whether the phenotypic traits of chow chow ce hfhs and hfhs ce were associated with changes in gut microbial community structure.

feces from mice housed in the same cage were pooled and considered as one biological sample chow n 14 3 chow th ce n 4 hfhs n 3 and hfhs ce n 4. a b-diversity among groups was initially observed by means of principal component analysis pcoa on weighted unifrac distances and the b firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio was calculated as a general index of obesity-driven dysbiosis.

however hfhs ce fully reversed hepatic steatosis and this was linked to upregulation of genes involved in lipid catabolism e.g.

