2015 38 1 41-52.Nzoughet J. K. Gallart-Ayala H. Biancotto G. Hennig K. Dervilly-Pinel G. Le Bizec B. Metabolomics 2015 11 6 1884- 1895.Hu C. van der Heijden R. Wang M. van der Greef J. Hankemeier T. Xu G. J. Chromatogr.

2014 951-952 1 119-128.25 Krauss R. M. Diabetes Care 2004 27 6 1496-1504.Qin J. Li Y. Cai Z. Li S. Zhu J. Zhang F. Liang S. Zhang W. Guan Y. Shen D. Peng Y. Zhang D. Jie Z. Wu W. Qin Y. Xue W. Li J. Han L. Lu D. Wu P. Dai Y.

Sun X. Li Z. Tang A. Zhong S. Li X. Chen W. Xu R. Wang M. Feng Q. Gong M. Yu J. Zhang Y. Zhang M. Hansen T. Sanchez G. Raes J. Falony G. Okuda S. Almeida M. LeChatelier E. Renault P. Pons N. Batto J.-M. Zhang Z. Chen H. Yang R. Zheng W. Li S. Yang H. Wang J. Ehrlich S. D. Nielsen R. Pedersen O. Kristiansen K. Wang J.

2014 30 S1 24-33.Abbott S. K. Jenner A. M. Mitchell T. W. Brown S. H. J. Halliday G. M. Garner B. Lipids 2013 48 3 307-318.Lin J. Liu L. Yang M. Lee M. J. Agric.

2017 89 12502-12510pubs.acs.orgacHolistic Lipidomics of the Human Gut Phenotype Using Validated Ultra-High-Performance Liquid Chromatography Coupled to Hybrid Orbitrap Mass SpectrometryLieven Van Meulebroek Ellen De PaepeVicky VercruysseBeata PomianSimon Bos Bruno Lapauwand Lynn VanhaeckeLaboratory of Chemical Analysis Department of Veterinary Public Health and Food Safety Faculty of Veterinary Medicine Ghent University Salisburylaan 133 9820 Merelbeke BelgiumInflammatory Bowel Disease Research Unit Department of Internal Medicine and SSDepartment of Endocrinology Ghent UniversityHospital De Pintelaan 185 9000 Ghent Belgium he chemical complexity among lipids was a major incentive for the LIPID MAPS consortium to establish a classification system based on eight lipid categories fatty acyls FA glycerolipids GL glycerophospholipids GP poly- ketides PK prenol lipids PL saccharolipids SL sphingolipids SP and sterol lipids ST. Each category is characterized by a profound hierarchy of classes and subclasses by which a total of about 40 000 biologically relevant species have been incorporated to date.Following this complexity lipids are involved in a plethora of biological processes including energy homeostasis immune response membrane architecture enzyme activity inflammation cellular signaling and transduction of cellular events.-Evidently a dysregulatedrelevance of lipid alterations in biological systems may thus yield valuable insights on metabolic homeostasis in relation to human health and disease.On this basis the lipidomics domain has recently emerged whereby the aim is to map the complete assortment of molecular lipid species together with associated metabolic fluxes.Although any biological matrix can be selected the most frequently used specimens to explore lipid alterations are serumplasmaand urine.Feces also represents an interesting choice because of the unique link with gastro- intestinal functionality encompassing gut integrity and digestive and absorptive processes.Moreover this biological matrix strongly reflects dietary intake and captures the tightlipid metabolism has been implicated in a variety of pathological conditions such as diabetes mellitus obesity Alzheimer's disease schizophrenia cancer atherosclerosis and multiple sclerosis.-In-depth assessment of the biologicalReceived September 3 2017Accepted October 20 2017Published October 20 2017c 2017 American Chemical Society12502DOI interactions between the host and gut-residing microbiota for which a causal role in various pathologies has been evidenced.- For these reasons and because of the noninvasive nature of sample collection the fecal metabolome has recently been studied in colon cancer ulcerative colitis irritable bowel syndrome and autism.- However these studies tend to focus only on the polar subfraction of the metabolome typically comprising small polar molecules such as amino acids carbohydrates bile acids organic acids etc.To date the 2013 study of Gregory et al.is the sole one to report on fecal lipidomics whereby the presented analytical methodology was demonstrated to cover six out of eight lipid categories and characterized up to 300 lipophilic species in fecal matter from premature infants.

Selection of these particular compounds was based on their endogenous absence or low abundance in the fecal materialsimplifying any fortification experiments.Linearity was assessed per lipid category by considering an eight-point calibration curve for each of the lipid target compounds.

A Multivariate analytical workflow with PCA-X score plot B OPLS-DA score plot and C heat map with hierarchical clustering to determine any fecal lipidome discrepancies between control and type 2 diabetes patients.When the complete set of endogenous lipids was considered coefficients were 30 for 72.6 of 6663 compounds compounds that were not present in at least one sample of the considered batches were pre-excluded.Instrumental Precision.

In addition a targeted profiling approach was performedthereby focusing on the 127 compounds defined in and using the retention time mz value of the molecular ion and 13C isotope pattern of the analytical standards to confirm the endogenous presence of these compounds in the fecal material of the participants.

As such 54 out of 127 compounds were found to be frequently present in fecal material  C. Some other compounds n  13 were only sporadically present across participants prevalence 50 within a study cohort not shown in C. However by use of the relative levels of these metabolites full discrimination of the study groups was not achieved on the basis of hierarchical clustering one minus Pearson correlation Morpheus online software.

R. H. Shimizu T. Spener F. van Meer G. Wakelam M. J. O. Dennis E. A. J. Lipid Res.

