the highly decayed genome consists of two chromosomes and harbors genes coding for proteolysis microbial toxin restriction- methylation systems and clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats crisprs composed of three cas genes and 76 crispr spacers.

the 424539-bp genome is characterized by a low gc content of 29.6.there were two rrna genes 16s plus 23s rrna and 32 trna genes for 20 amino acids in the genome.

spiroplasma holothuricola genome harbored the smallest number of genes responsi- ble for amino acid biosynthesis strongly indicating an endosymbiotic lifestyle.to examine what essential genes were absent from the ca.

spiroplasma holothuricola genome in contrast to 9 core genes in the m. mycoides genome and 8 core genes in the b. aphidicola genome table s3.

however some of the missing genes such as those for groel and glutaminyl-trna synthetase could be at least partially replaced by other genes.

cscgs were identified by searching the cdss of the genome against a revised hmm database containing 108 cscg genes three original genes for archaea and cyanobacteria were excluded  using hmmsearch 3.0 with default settings .

in this organism the genes responsible for the biosynthesis of amino acids glycolysis and sugar transporters were lost strongly suggesting endosymbiosis.

moreover a considerable part of the genome was occupied by a crisprcas system to provide immunity against viruses and antimicrobial toxin- encoding genes for the degradation of microbes.

deciphering the wolbachia genome allowed the identification of ankyrin-encoding genes that enable the bacterium to evade recognition and attack by the host .

of particular interest eukaryote-derived genes encoding leucine-rich regions and fibronectin essential for the host-symbiont interaction were identified in the symbiotic genomes  .

the apparent considerable streamlining of this genome with a loss of numerous essential genes was indicative of long-term mutualistic interactions and niche-specific evolution.

taxonomic classification using the cyto- chrome c oxidase subunit i coxi gene and 18s rrna gene indicates that the sea cucumber is a species close to zygothuria oxysclera 98 similar between 18s rrna genes.

sequencing of full-length 16s rrna genes from the gut microbiota of the sea cucumber revealed the major inhabitants of the different gut sections.

classification of the 16s rrna genes showed that unclassified gammaproteobacteria mostly belonging to incertae sedis groups originating from deep-sea surface sediments were dominant in the foregut and the midgut .

the 16s rrna genes in the foregut midgut and hindgut of the sea cucumber were amplified and cloned into vectors.

