thus the experimental setting in which germ free mice are gavaged with the fungus provides a more homogeneous system to study the interplay between the yeast form of c. albicans and the mammalian host in vivo.identification of c. albicans regulatory genes that contribute to fitness in the digestive tract of gnotobiotic miceto start dissecting the mechanisms that sustain the proliferation of the fungus in this niche we screened a collection of c. albicans transcription regulator deletion mutants for their ability to endure in the gut of gnotobiotic mice monocolonized with the fungus.

this standard mouse model of gut colonization has been employed to identify a handful of c. albicans genes with roles in commensalism - as well as mouse commensal bacteria that may prevent c. albicans colonization .

from the structure of a large transcriptional network built around reg- ulators governing c. albicans gut colonization andor disseminated infections it has been pos- tulated that commensalism and pathogenesis traits may be highly interconnected .a significant amount of indigenous flora--particularly anaerobes--still persists after administering the antibiotics commonly used to achieve c. albicans intestinal colonization inmice .

when gavaged in germ-free animals this strain was severely outcompeted by its wild- type parental strain  indicating that filamentation in c. albicans is indeed detrimental for gut colonization.transcriptional network associated with the regulators zcf8 zfu2 andtry4our results thus far suggested that the c. albicans genes zcf8 zfu2 and try4--which encode proteins containing putative sequence-specific dna binding domains zinc cluster or zinc fingers--negatively regulate filamentation under certain conditions.

in fact these findings further sup- port our initial observation  that the oval-shaped yeast form of the fungus is the most prevalent cell morphology in this niche.while additional mechanisms of morphology control cannot be ruled out our results indi- cate that by promoting transcription of fgr17 and repressing wor3 three of the gut coloni- zation regulators that we identified in our screen can favor the yeast form over filament and opaque cell formation respectively.zcf8 zfu2 and try4 promote c. albicans adherencewe established above that the yeast morphology is a key attribute of c. albicans in the gastroin- testinal tract of animals monocolonized with the fungus.

in this report we have delineated the interface between c. albicans and the murine intestinal epithelium and established that the oval-shaped yeast morphology is a key determinant of c. albicans' ability to persist in the gastrointestinal tract of gnotobiotic mice monocolonized with the fungus.

thus our findings suggest that no additional morphologies need to be invoked to explain the commensal state of the fungus in the digestive tract.the distinct gut environments found in germ free and in conventional animals appear to influence the morphology and distribution c. albicans cells in the colon in germ free animals fungal cells were found in significant numbers in the vicinity of the mucus layer whereas only few c. albicans cells were visible in the equivalent region in conventional animals  .

these findings illustrate how the same gene repertoire that sustains c. albicans colonization in the mammalian gut as commensal can be diverted to drive attachment to other surfaces and fuel bloodstream infections.of the eight transcription regulators that we identified in our genetic screen in gnotobiotic mice monocolonized with c. albicans four displayed a similar phenotype in a gut colonization model that employed antibiotic-treated conventionally raised rodents .

untangling these effects would require further studies although it is unclear whether the indigenous microbiota found in con- ventional mice is relevant to the study of c. albicans commensalism because the fungus does not naturally cohabit with the murine microbiome.in sum we have shown that the use of gnotobiotic mice monocolonized with c. albicans can reveal new aspects of the biology of this human gut commensal.

because the indigenous mouse microbiota restricts c. albicans settlement we compared the patterns of colonization in the gut of germ free and antibiotic-treated conventionally raised mice.

by screening a collection of c. albicans transcription regulator deletion mutants in gnotobiotic mice we identify several genes previously unknown to contribute to in vivo fit- ness.

consistent with this finding we demonstrate that genetically inducing non-yeast cell morphologies is detrimental to the fit- ness of c. albicans in the gut.

in agreement with this result histology sections indicate that c. albicans dwells in the murine gut in close proximity to the mucus layer.

thus our findings reveal a set of regulators that endows c. albicans with the ability to endure in the intestine through multiple mechanisms.knauf iphofen to jcp.

a growing number of c. albicans infections are also due to the contamination of implanted med- ical devices such as catheters -.

