the bacteria-enriched carrot diet was prepared by hand mixing 1 kg of carrot diet with the respective bacterial suspension before filling the petri dishes or trays.effects of k. oxytoca as a larval diet additive on medfly's immature survival and developmenteggs were transferred into carrot diet following the procedure described above.

this effect was detected statistically only between the autoclaved bacteria and the control treatment x2 4.852 p 0.028 while the difference between live bacteria and control was not statistically significant despite the observed trend x2 3.518 p 0.061. autoclaved and live bacteria had the same impact on developmental duration of the immature stages x2  0.131 p  0.718.effect of k. oxytoca as a larval diet additive on longevity under food and water deprivationcox regression analysis testing the effect of bacteria and sex on survival under stress conditions water and food deprivation light absence revealed that neither bacteria treatment wald' s test t 1.31 df 2 p 0.519 nor sex wald' s t-test 2.59 df 1 p 0.108 were significant predictors of adult life span .effect of k. oxytoca as a larval diet additive on flight abilitylogistic regression analysis revealed that the bacteria addition was a significant predictor of the flight ability wald's test t 9.31 df 2 p 0.01. specifically insects fed in live bacteria diet presented better flight ability compared to both autoclaved bacteria fed wald's test t  6.29 df  1 p  0.012and the control flies wald's test t 8.37 df 1 p 0.004. no difference was detected between the autoclaved bacteria and the control treatment wald's test t 0.16 df 1 p 0.689. despite the tendency of females to display lower flight ability than males statistical analysis did not detect significant differences between the sexes wald's test t  1.90 df  1 p  0.168 .effect of k. oxytoca and enterobacter sp.

the findings of this study showed that a the addition of bacteria to sterile male diet significantly increased their mating success both with wildish females in laboratory conditions and with wild females in semi-natural conditions b bacterially fed sterile males were more effective than sugar fed males in inhibiting female receptivity and c sterile males fed on bacteria enriched diet showed better ability to survive after 48 and 72 h of starvation compared to the sugar-only fed.

three replicates for each treatment without bacteria autoclaved bacteria or live bacteria 108 bacteria per gram of larval diet were performed as previously described   .effects of k. oxytoca as a larval diet additive on medfly's flight abilitytwo days before emergence 50 male and 50 female pupae brown and white respectively were placed within a ring of paper which was centered in the bottom of a petri dish 77 mm 15 mm.

chi-square test x2 was used to determine the effects of bacteria provision on male mating competitiveness.resultseffect of k. oxytoca as a larval diet additive on developmental and rearing efficiency parametersegg to pupae recoverylogistic regression analysis revealed that the bacterial concentration 106 107 or 108 bacteria per gram of larval diet was not a significant predictor of egg to pupae recovery rates neither for autoclaved wald's test t 3.57 df 1 p 0.059 nor for live bacteria wald's test t 3.07 df 1 p 0.079. therefore considering that the three bacterial concentrations exert the same effect on recovery rates within each treatment autoclaved and live bacteria we combined the data for the three different concentrations forming three discrete treatments without bacteria autoclaved bacteria and live bacteria.

likewise k. oxytoca enhanced diet also did not change the mating competitiveness ability of the vienna 8d53 males x2  2.57 df  1 p  0.109 when competed for vienna 8d53 females and x2  0.05 df  1 p  0.814 for australian females .discussionour results demonstrate that the provision of k. oxytoca as a dietary supplement in the larval diet accelerated the immature development on vienna 8d53.

aa26 isolate used as an adult diet supplement in the current study is also a naturally occurring medfly gut symbiont and the same with the oneused before as a larval diet supplement by .probiotic supplements in larval dietto our knowledge there are only two studies that have used probiotic supplements in larval diets.

as an example in the larval diet different substrates are being used that can influence the nutritional value of the control diet and the crowding conditions in rearing may also vary.

strain aa26 and a klebsiella oxytoca strain were used as probiotics in larval and adult diet.

on the other hand our study does not support the presence of any beneficial effect of a k. oxytoca on pupal and adult recovery and adults' survival under stress conditions when provided as a larval diet supplement and b k. oxytoca and enterobacter sp.

aa26 on mating competitiveness when provided as adult diet supplements.

however the cost of the larval diet and the sexual competitiveness of released males are parameters that could be optimized even more.

later  used a 'probiotic cocktail' as a supplement to larval diet of vienna 8 males.

incorporating this isolate in vienna 8d53 larval diet resulted in faster immature development more pronounced in the case of live compared to autoclaved bacteria provision and decreased mortality during immature stages.

oxytoca isolate as a probiotic in the medfly vienna 8d53 larval diet and b use and compare the enterobacter sp.

