by analyzing the phylogenetic distribution of soil bacterial communities along a natural gradient of soils under the influence of the same meta-community and environmental variation we have recently shown that soil type exerts greater effect on rhizosphere communities than plant as indicated by the fact that the rhizosphere microbiome followed the changes observed in the bulk soil.

it remains unclear however how soil properties would influence this selection and whether microbial functionality is mostly driven by plant-specific selection or by the soil parameters.in this study we aim at exploring the importance of the selective force exerted by the plant in regulating the functionality of plant-associated bacterial species in different soil types along a salt marsh primary succession chronosequence       .

pie charts were used to summarize the proportion of bacterial isolates from one of the treatments.resultsisolation screening and characterization of plant-associated bacteria in rhizosphere and root endospherethe population counts on r2a agar plates of bacterial isolates from the rhizosphere soil and root endosphere of l. vulgare and a. maritima along the chronosequence were significantly influenced by soil type f 10.820 p 0.002. significant differences in population counts were respectively observed between middle 15- and 35-year stages and late 65- and 105-year stages successional phases for either rhizosphereor endosphere from both plants tukey's hsd test forl.

to further verify the patterns of functional diversity we generated functional diversity measures encompassing all the traits measured allowing us to depict functional similarity among species along a continuum of soil formation as a whole total functional diversity or per category of function specific functional diversity traits associated with bacterial fitness antibiotic and abiotic stress resistance - ph osmotic andoxidative stress and salinity metabolic potential determined by growth on different carbon sources and pgp capacity siderophore production exoprotease production and biofilm formation.analyzes of variance indicated soil type exerted significant influence on total functional diversity p 0.035 but not on that for bacterial isolates from either plant compartment p  0.05 .

the absence of functional diversity pattern of isolates obtained from endosphere along the chronosequence would indicate plant selectivity to be stronger than the soil influence whereas an increased complexity of functional diversity patterns associated with rhizosphere isolates along the succession would reveal an overriding effect of soil type over plant species.taxonomic distribution ofroot-associated bacterial isolatesfrom the taxonomic characteristics most of the bacterial isolates were unique to one plant species or plant compartment supplementary figure s2 which coincided with the effect of plant selectivity recruiting unique microbes in response to the specific root exudates produced by different plants     and the degree of association with plant host given the different biochemical environment observed in the internal root tissues     .

in this study we use soil stage as a proxy of soil type as previous work has revealed that the sedimentation caused by the tidal regime has resulted in modifications on the soil physicochemical conditions along the primary succession leading to an accumulation of silt and clay particles.

rhizosphere soil samples were collected by weighting ten grams of roots with tightly adhering soil particles about 3 g rhizosphere soil.

for instance field experiments have shown the influence of plant species on the structure and function of bacterial communities associated with the rhizosphere of three phylogenetically different and economically important crops - strawberry potato and oilseed rape       .the rhizosphere effect varies however at different sites because of differences in microbial biogeographical patterns soil properties and land use         making impossible to disentangle the effects driven by soil type from those related to plant species.

specifically we expect the functionality of rhizosphere bacterial isolates to change along the soil succession thus following the increase in the complexity of soil nutrients organic matter plant diversity and biomass observed in this system.

only samples without bacterial growth were considered successfully sterilized and used further.bacterial isolation and identification from rhizosphere soil and plant root samplesr2a medium as a non-selective medium recommended for the examination of total heterotrophic bacteria in soil   was used to culture the heterotrophic population.

specifically the progressively increasing pattern of salinity stress resistance antibiotic resistance and siderophore production of bacterial isolates were in line with the soil salinity accumulationtable 2  comparison of functional diversity indices between two plant species.limonium vulgare0.59 - 0.27plant associate traitsartemisia maritima 0.83 - 0.79 0.049limonium vulgare0.25 - 0.31abiotic stress resistance artemisia maritima 0.59 - 0.20 0.004limonium vulgare0.55 - 0.19antibiotic resistanceartemisia maritima 0.60 - 0.26 0.388limonium vulgare0.58 - 0.29metabolic potentialartemisia maritima 0.69 - 0.30 0.001 limonium vulgare 0.30 - 0.27p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001.and soil nutrients enrichment following the development of succession    .

despite the low number of individuals belonging to other classes it is interesting to note that the highest diversity of other taxonomic groups was observed at the initial stage which is subjected to a constant influx of different microbes owing to marine input   followed by colonization in the different plant compartments.functional dynamics of the rhizosphere bacterial isolates along the chronosequencethe isolates obtained from the rhizosphere showed significant patterns along the chronosequence specially for functions associated with bacterial fitness indicating their response to soil properties as well as their potential to improve plant health.

16s23s rrna sequencing in nucleic acid techniques in bacterial systematics eds e. stackebrandt and m. goodfellow new york ny john wiley  sons 115-147.lauber c. l. strickland m. s. bradford m. a. and fierer n. 2008. the influence of soil properties on the structure of bacterial and fungal communities across land-use types.

a maximum of 32 bacterial colonies with unique morphologies per replicatetable s1 for total numbers transferred onto new r2a medium plates and further used as templates for box-pcr - a dna- based typing method that differentiate bacterial species at strain level by simultaneously screening dna regions scattered in the bacterial genome  .

here we used an undisturbed salt marsh chronosequence that represents over 100 years of soil development to assess how the functional traits of plant associated bacteria respond to soil type plant species and plant compartment.

