the spray drying media with a statistically significant log-reduction in viability are indicated with a star  one-way anova tukey's multiple comparisons test.results and discussionmedium optimization for spray dryingthe effects of sodium chloride and sodium phosphates on the sur- vival rate of l. rhamnosus gg were assessed by using different spray drying media namely demineralized water pb saline and pbs.

spray drying was carried out with a laboratory-scale spray dryer b-290 buchi flawil switzerland.

when rehydrating the bacterial cells.effect of saccharides on the bacterial viability after spray dryingdifferent saccharides including trehalose lactose mannitol dex- tran and maltodextrin were tested in different concentrations in pbs for their protective effect on the survival rate of l. rhamnosus gg after spray drying.

even though this led to the highest survival rate after spray drying from all the tested conditions the powder obtained after spray drying showed very low yields.

research paperenhancing the viability of lactobacillus rhamnosus gg after spray drying and during storagegeraldine broeckx dieter vandenheuvel tim henkens shari kiekensmarianne f.l.

we aimed to examine the effect of different drying media and protective excipients on the viability of the prototype probiotic strain lactobacillus rhamnosus gg after spray drying and during subsequent storage for 28 weeks.

in addition to optimizing the viability future research will also explore the functionality of cellular probiotic components after spray drying in order to safeguard the probiotic activity of the formulated pharmabiotics.introductionthe increasing knowledge about the human microbiome creates more awareness of the important role micro-organisms play in our health and immune system.

therefore the use of spray drying emerges as a promising alternative in drying probiotic cells.

spray drying is a cheap continuous and fast process where the end product consists of individual powder particles containing the probiotics.

during spray drying the bacteria encounter several stresses such as dehydration and high temperatures next to atomization osmotic and oxidative stress.

several protection stra- tegies can be envisaged to enhance bacterial viability such as addition of protective agents adapting the process parameters or pre-con- ditioning the bacterial cells with a sublethal stress factor reviewed in .in this research potential optimization of the spray drying processof probiotic bacteria was evaluated by the addition of protective agents.

the feed solu- tion to be spray dried.

the bacterial pellet was resuspended by vortexing to its original volume in the respective spray drying medium.

the spray drying media examined were demineralized water pb saline 0.9 mv nacl or phosphate buffered saline pbs.

a co-current spray dryer configuration was used and the feed was sprayed into the drying chamber using a two-fluid nozzle.

