here proper mucin secretion mediated by vamp8 had conse- quences for protection against e. histolytica allowing increased contact of e. histolytica with epithelial cells.increased association of e. histolytica in cells lacking vamp8 leads to cyto- pathic effects and apoptosis.

these results demonstrate that vamp8 is critical in facilitating mucus secretion and is specifically activated upon interaction with e. histolytica in vitro.lack of vamp8 and mucin exocytosis increases e. histolytica contact with goblet cells.

these results demonstrate that vamp8 mediates protection of the epithelium through facilitation of mucin secretion and that a lack of this protective effect leads to increased levels of e. histolytica cytopathic effects.proinflammatory responses are exacerbated in vamp8-- mice due to a lack of mucin release.

indeed control cells had very little vamp8 present within lipid raft domains fractions 4 to 5 however upon stimulation with either the mucin secretagogue pma or e. histolytica vamp8 polarized to lipid raft domains .to validate these finding in vivo we performed colonic loop infections with e. his- tolytica in vamp8-- and vamp littermate controls .

additionally basal mucin secretion in the absence of e. histolytica was also inhibited in vamp8kd cells suggest- ing that vamp8 is critical in both agonist-induced and constitutive mucin secretion .

c unlike vamp colonic loops infected with e. histolytica vamp8-- colonic loops lacked wga and muc2 mucin streaming out of colonic crypts arrows and displayed increased levels of mucin retained within the epithelium.

mucus secretion serves as the first line of innate defense during e. histo- lytica infection and lack of the predominant vesicle snare vamp8 abrogates thisfig 2 vamp8 facilitates mucin exocytosis by e. histolytica in vivo.

abolishment of exocytosis in goblet cells by silencing vamp8 expression or in vamp8-- animals leads to abrogated mucin secretion and increased e. histolytica adherence.

the wt ls174t cells and ptripz control ls174t cells were not affected by the presence of doxycycline with respect to mucin secretion.six-to-8-week-old vamp8 and vamp8-- littermates on an sv129 background were bred in-house and used for colonic loop infections with e. histolytica as previously described .

we observed the vesicle snare vamp8 on the activated phospho-marcks-positive mucin granules suggesting that vamp8 participates in mucin exocytosis.

c shrna kd of vamp8 was confirmed by western blotting where ls174t and uninduced vamp8 cells displayed normal vamp8 expression in contrast to doxycycline dox 2 ugml-induced vamp8kd cells which had 60 less vamp8.

in contrast vamp8kd turborfp cells showed a 2-fold increase in the level of e. histolytica cells that directly bound quadrant 2 q2 and the lack of mucin secretion also affected bystander cells that were not knocked down with an increase in the total amount of e. histolytica .

histolytica directly bound to vamp8kd cells was higher than that seen with unin-fig 3 vamp8kd increases e. histolytica contact with goblet cells due to aberrant mucin exocytosis.

previously work on induced mucin exocytosis demonstrated a high dependency on kinases specifically protein kinase c pkc in facilitating mucin release in response to the mucosal pathogen entamoeba histolytica .

e. histolytica has a unique interaction with mucin allowing adhesion degradation and secretion of mucin.

