coli magnification x5000 e c. tropicalis plus s. marcescens magnification x5000 f c. tropicalis plus e. coli plus s. marcescens magnification x5000.to the phylum bacteroidetes were reduced in cd patients while that of e. coli s. marcescens cronobacter sakazakii and ruminoccus gnavus were significantly increased in these patients.

a c. tropicalis plus e. coli bar 0.5 um b c. tropicalis plus s. marcescens bar 500 nm c c. tropicalis plus e. coli plus s. marcescens bar 0.5 um d c. tropicalis plus e. coli pluss.

in contrast our correlation analysis identified significant correlations between c. tropicalis and potentially pathogenic bacteria and negative correlations between saccharomyces and most of the bacterial genera.cooperation between fungi and bacteriaarmed with the new evidence suggesting that fungi and bac- teria interact with each other in a way that could potentially exacerbate inflammatory symptoms of ibd we examined how c. tropicalis e. coli and s. marcescens interact together in order to gain insight into the mechanisms underlying these interaction.

a c. tropicalis plus e. colimagnification x1057 b c. tropicalis plus s. marcescens magnification x1000 c c. tropicalis plus e. coli plus s. marcescens magnification x1000 d c. tropicalis pluse.

s. marcescens interacts with intestinal epithelial cells and induces dramatic immunological alterations similar to those produced by known enteric pathogens therefore showing that s. marcescens is increased in cd set- tings may have identified yet a new culprit that influences the inflammatory symptoms in ibd patients.as described above iliev et al.

in our most recent study we identified a posi- tive correlation between bacteria and fungi wherein the bacteria escherichia coli serratia marcescens and the fungus candida tropi- calis were elevated in the gi tract of patients with crohn's disease cd compared to their non-crohn's healthy relatives ncdr.

1. scanning electron microscopy micrographs of biofilms formed by c. tropicalis alone or in combination with e. coli andor s. marcescens.

since microorganisms in the digestive tract exist in a biofilm set- ting which renders them resistant to antimicrobial agents and protects them from immune cells we initiated stud- ies to examine how these bacteria and fungal cells interact in such a milieu using our in vitro biofilm model these studies demonstrated that c. tropicalis e. coli and s. marcescens cooper- ate to form robust biofilms that were significantly thicker than single or double species biofilms.

interactions between c. trop- icalis and these two bacteria have been previously reported wherein lipopolysaccharide produced by s. marcescens and e. coli significantly enhanced fungal biofilm maturation closerfig.

2. transmission electron microscopy micrographs of biofilms formed by c tropicalis ct alone or in combination with e. coli ec andor s. marcescens sm.

wherein c. tropicalis began to form fungal hyphae a known candida pathogenicity factor that facilitates tissue invasion in the presence of e. coli and s. marcescens thereby triggering host immune response similar inter-kingdom interactions have been observed in set- tings other than the gut.

sub- sequent publications in the 19th century documented candida infection of the stomach colon and ileum importance of selecting the appropriate control cohortuntil recently the only study investigating the mycobiome and ibd was by illiev et al.using a dextran sodium sulfate dss- induced colitis mouse model these authors showed that 1 the gut is colonized with 10 fungal species dominated by c. tropicalis 65 and 2 fungi and not bacteria are responsible for aggravat-table 1abundance of identified fungal phyla class and order in cd disease and ncdr healthy relatives groups.taxon namecdncdrping the severity and inflammation of ibd rather than a cause of these symptoms which clearly demonstrates the contribution of the mycobiome to colitis.we have extended the work from animal models to patients with cd as described in our most recent study since cd is a disease mediated by a multitude of factors including host genotype dysregulated immune response and the intestinal microbiota and since members of a family share genetics environment diet and bacterial microbiota and are more similar to each other than they are to unrelated individuals we decided to characterize the mycobiome and bacteriome in cd patients in multiplex families compared to their unaffected first-degree relatives ncdr.

antifungals will control the overgrowth of fungi while probiotics can help restore and maintain the balance of the microbiota.the importance of research and development of probiotics for use in ibd is highlighted in a review by sartor here he shows that very little research has been done on probiotics in the set- ting of ibd and studies that have been conducted are in relatively small trials with a small number of enrolled patients.

we found that patients with crohn's disease cd tend to have much higher levels of the fungus candida tropicalis compared to their healthy family members as well as two bacteria escherichia coli and serratia marcescens.

marcescens bar 200 nm.examination using scanning electron microscopy sem and trans- mission electron microscopy tem revealed intimate and distinct interactions between the bacterial species and the fungus e. coli cells were closely adhered to the fungal cell walls whiles.

