studies have shown that vacuoles released by certain protozoa on lettuce and spinach can support the growth and survival of foodborne pathogens including e. coli l. monocytogenes and salmonella enterica subspecies enterica .protozoathe presence of free-living protozoa flp is common on leafy greens such as lettuce and spinach  .

specific bindinghnov gii.4 vlpslettuce cell wallgii.4 hnov vlps specifically bind to hbga-like carbohydrates on lettuceleavesindirectly increase viral bindinghnovfungi on leafy green the fungi trichoderma viride on lettuce leaves produce enzymes that digestcell wall structure the mold aspergillus flavus cause decay on lettuce.

be- sides root uptake the internalization could also happen through cut lettuce leaves or the stomata of lettuce.

nevertheless once internalized viruses cannot be easily removed compared to those existing on the surface of fresh produce.in addition studied the effect of biotic stressinfection with lettuce mosaic virus and abiotic stresses drought and flood on the internalization and dissemination of hnov surrogates in soil grown romaine lettuce.

polyphenol and flavonoids both exist in lettuce though the concentrations vary between different lettuce spe- cies.

as reported previously by  r-10 can digest lettuce cell wall structure and exposing hbga-like carbohydrates leading to significantly increased binding of hnov gii.4 vlps to lettuce leaves.

however lettuce and inert surfaces clearly have different properties with lettuce surfaces presenting a much more complex environment--a living environment.

internalization of sapovirus a sur- rogate for norovirus in romaine lettuce and the effect of lettuce latex on virus in- fectivity.

unexpected pathogens have been associated with fresh produce including e. coli o157h7 in baby spinach yersinia pseudotuberculosis in lettuce and listeria mono- cytogenes in bagged salads etc.

lettuce spinach tomato etc.

as reported previously the majority of bacteria genera found on lettuce leaf surfaces include pseudomonas pantoea arthrobacter flavo- bacterium acinetobacter and bacillus .

reported the most abundant bacteria families on lettuce roots are pseudomonadaceae xanthomonadaceae cellvibrio fla- vobacterium and sphingomonadaceae.

the plant age can also impact bacterial compositions since the variety of bacteria decreases during the maturation of lettuce leaves.

as reported by   the soluble carbohydrates calcium and phenolics on lettuce leaf surfaces have significant influence on bacterial community structure.

specifically the size of the lettuce head can determine air flow as well as water and soluble nutrient deposit .

