intact absorption of grp in the lower digestive tract   hydrolytic processes and mutual conversion processes.glycoside hydrolase gh family gh1 which may partly explain differences in activity.3132metabolism of glucosinolates by gut microfloraglss are thought to reach the large intestine before being broken down.27 grp could not be degraded by -amylase and gastric pepsin in the upper gut nor by intestinal pancreatin in vitro.33 in contrast grp could be hydrolyzed by gut microflora from the human cecum transplanted into f344 rats.

set up a model in vitro to mimic the anaerobic environment of the human gut and investigated whether human gut microflora could hydrolyze glucoraphanin grp.23 they found that fecal bacteria were able to mediate the hydrolysis of grp because specific metabolites such as sfn and sfn-nitrile were detected in the culture medium.

even grp administered by intraperitoneal injection could be delivered to the intestinal tract through the enterohepatic circulation and then hydrolyzed by gut microflora.10 the ability of gut microflora to hydrolyze glss differs between individuals.

however studies using animal models andpopulation trials have suggested that human gut bacteria might act like an 'organ' in that they can secrete their own myrosinase.

in this review the hydrolysis of gls by myrosinase is discussed with an important focus on the gut microflora and their myrosinase-producing roles.c 2017 society of chemical industrykeywords glucosinolates isothiocyanates myrosinase intestinal microflora cruciferous vegetablesbioactivities of the isothiocyanatesnumerous epidemiological and experimental animal studies are documented showing that isothiocyanates itcs derived from cruciferous vegetables are inversely correlated with the risk of developing cancers originating from the bladder colon lung pancreas and so on.1-3 recent evidence highlights the addi- tional potential of itcs especially sulforaphane sfn to help prevent other diseases.

most of them are not hydrolyzed to their bioactive metabolites but excreted as the original molecules in urine or secreted back into the gut via the bile duct for hydrolysis.

thushydrolysis is dependent not only on ingestion of gls but also their conversion to their bioactive hydrolysis products prior to passage across the gut wall.10myrosinase thioglucoside glucohydrolase ec 3.2.1.147 for- merly ec 3.2.3.1 is the only known enzyme to specifically hydrolyze glss.

more recently itcs were shown to appear in the mesenteric plasma 120 min fol- lowing the injection of grp into the cecum 150 mmol l-1 further confirming the capabilities of gut microflora to hydrolyze glss.24 microflora of the gastrointestinal tract are thought to be primar- ily responsible for itc production in the human body because rats and humans are short of the myrosinase enzyme.gut microflora and myrosinasea large amount of evidence supports the notion that the intesti- nal microbiota is the main myrosinase producer in the body.

reduction of bowel microflora by mechanical cleansing and antibi- otic treatment has been shown almost to eliminate gls hydrol- ysis in the gut.

by incubating mixed or pure cul- tures of bacteria with glss in vitro several bacterial species in human gut such as escherichia coli bacteroides thetaiotaomicronfigure 2. graphical illustration of docked complex of myrosinase protein with sinigrin and potential n-glycosylation sites highlighted.

some microbial strains not just gut strains reported to have myrosinase activity are summarized in table 1.one crossover study compared sfn and erucin ern bioavail- ability from a whole food source fresh broccoli sprouts with that from a dietary supplement.

these findings likely reflected the reliance on microflora in the colon for glucosinolate hydrolysis.30 importantly although the gut microbiota is capable of transforming glss into their active metabolites the additional presence of vegetable-based myrosinase was shown to be important for maximal bioavail- ability of itcs.

sfn and erucin ern can interconvert through gut microflora.

grp and glucoerucin ger can also interconvert through gut microflora.

the two mutual conversion processes can also occur without gut microflora in the human body.

