In addition to cell-cell junctions coverage of the EndoC layer by pericytes is involved in the endothelial barrier function and was found to regulate permeability of the blood-brain barrier  .The intestinal vascular endothelium represents a specialized vascular bed  .

J Cell Physiol 2005 2043934-47. doCitalan-Madrid AF Garcia-Ponce A Vargas-Robles H Betanzos A Schnoor M. Small GTPases of the Ras superfamily regulate intestinal epithelial homeosta- sis and barrier function via common and unique mechanisms.

The destruction of intestinal architecture upon epithelial Pggt1b the gene encoding for GGTase-Ib geranylgeranyltransferase1 beta subunit deletion goes along with cytoskeleton remodeling cell shedding alterations and increased intestinal permeability.

2005.11.009Fries W Belvedere A Vetrano S. Sealing the broken barrier in IBD intes- tinal permeability epithelial cells and junctions.

In this review we will summarize the role of small and large GTPases for cytoskeleton plasticity and epithelialendothelial barrier in the context of gut inflammation.Keywords epithelium endothelium vascular barriers gut junction proteins inflammation inflammatory bowel diseaseinTRODUCTiOnEpithelia at mucosal surfaces represent the first barrier preventing potentially harmful environ- mental factors to invade the host.

In addition to the epithelium the gut-vascular barrier GVB has been recently described as a new anatomical structure which builds a second protec- tive barrier preventing the microbiota to enter the bloodstream while allowing the translocation of immune cells and antigens .

Dynamin-2 plays a role in barrier maintenance during TNF-inducedepithelial shedding  and is also involved in the maintenance of the vascular barrier function under hypoxia by inducing the activity of eNOS .

Large GTPases are characterized by the ability to oligomerize and harbor an oligomerization-dependent GTPase activity .In the following we will summarize the role of small and large GTPases in cytoskeleton remodeling epithelial and endothelial integrity and their relevance in maintenance of barrier functions in the gut.Small GTPasesImpaired small GTPase function in the intestinal epithelium is associated with junctional and cytoskeletal dysfunctions - .

These results open new perspec- tives for the understanding of the role of the microbiome in the regulation of intestinal barrier function and in the onset of colitis.

Despite these observations so far little is known about the role of Rho GTPases and prenylation inEndoCs during intestinal inflammation.Large GTPasesAmong large GTPases two molecules dynamin-2 and GBP-1 are of particular importance in the regulation of barrier function.

