however the effect of i. aquatica ethanolic extract on the metabolites in the body has remained unknown.purpose this study provides new insights on the changes of endogenous metabolites caused by i. aquatica ethanolic extract and improves the understanding on the therapeutic efficacy and mechanism of i. aquatica ethanolic extract.methods by using a combination of 1h nuclear magnetic resonance nmr with multivariate analysis mvda the changes of metabolites due to i. aquatica ethanolic extract administration in obese diabetic-induced sprague dawley rats obstzia were identified.results the results suggested 19 potential biomarkers with variable importance projections vip above 0.5 which include creatinecreatinine glucose creatinine citrate carnitine 2-oxoglutarate succinate hippurate leucine 1-methylnicotinamice mna taurine 3-hydroxybutyrate 3-hb tryptophan lysine trigonelline al- lantoin formiate acetoacetate acac and dimethylamine.

metabolites such as tca intermediates succinate 2-oxoglutarate and succinate amino acids tryptophan acac and dimethylamine were found to be unimproved by comparing with the nd group.discussioneffect of i. aquatica ethanolic extract on glucose and energy metabolismfrom the serum result i. aquatica ethanolic extract is capable of promoting glycolysis by lowering the glucose level.

these results indicate that i. aquatica ethanolic extract possessed anti-hyperglycemic activity as it postpones the glucose absorption for postprandial glucose as been proven from their ogtt result increase the glucose uptake in the adipocyte and lowers the glucose level after 4 weeks of treatment.

therefore the aim of the present study was1 to find potential biomarkers in urine that were altered by i. aquatica ethanolic extract and 2 to improve the understanding of the ther- apeutic efficacy and mechanism of i. aquatica ethanolic extract as an anti-hyperglycemic agent.materials and methodssolvents and chemicalsnon-deuterated kh2po4 sodium deuterium oxide naod tri- methylsilyl propionic acid-d4 sodium salt tsp deuterium oxide d2o sodium azide carboxymethyl cellulose cmc and metformin were purchased from merck darmstadt germany.preparation of i. aquatica ethanolic extractthe aerial part of i. aquatica was collected at universiti putra malaysia agricultural park serdang malaysia and dried at 40 degc in an oven for 5 days.

the group differentiation between the nd and the diabetic group obstz and obstzia was highly affected by glucose and other metabolites that located in the glucose region such as n-phenylacetylglycine taurine and carnitine b. meanwhile separation between obstz and obstzia can be identified from metabolites such as glucose taurine and carni- tine where most of these metabolites were higher in obstz com- pared to obstzia.to filter out the obvious influence of the glucose region on the model we decided to exclude the glucose region d 3.15-3.24 d 3.31-3.52 d 3.63-3.9 d 5.15-5.24 from the spectra to observe the changes in other metabolites.

this suggests that i. aquatica ethanolic extract especially at 1000 ugml possess in- sulin-mimetic and insulin-sensitizing activities during enhancing glu- cose uptake into 3t3f442a adipocytes.preliminary studytable s1 shows the ogtt result for rats treated with different doses 150 250 and 500 mgkg of i. aquatica ethanolic extract.

all of these results suggested that the metabolic pathways in-cluding carbohydrate and lipids were markedly disturbed in the dia- betic state.table 2effect of i. aquatica ethanolic extract on adiponectin secretion from 3t3f442a adipocytes.values expressed as means - standard deviations from four independent experiments.p  .05 p  .01 p  .001 compared with control incubation using student t-test.dp  .05 ddp  .0 compared to 100 nm insulin using student t-test.high level of hdl in obstzia rats compared to obstz was due to i. aquatica ethanolic extract administration.

in short i. aquatica ethanolic extract improved the egp level but did not improve energy production adenosine triphosphate atp via the tca cycle.effect of i. aquatica ethanolic extract on lipid metabolisma higher level of formiate was also found in the obstzia groupcompared to others .

from the results shown in  an increase in the urinary al- lantoin concentration of obstzia rats shows that i. aquatica ethanolic extract has promising effects in improving kidney functions especially glomerular filtration rate gfr.conclusionin conclusion i. aquatica ethanolic extract manage to upregulate metabolites such as creatininecreatine carnitine mna trigonelline leucine lysine 3-hb and downregulating metabolites including glu- cose and tca's intermediate.

as dm is often linked to aspects of an unhealthy lifestyle such as obesity dietary intervention it has been proposed as one of the solutions in preventing and treating dmabbreviations dm diabetes mellitus ncd non-communicable diseases t2dm type 2 diabetes mvda multivariate analysis pca principle component analysis plsda partial least square discriminant analysis oplsda orthogonal partial least square discriminant analysis stz streptozotocin sd sprague-dawley nmr nuclear magnetic resonance iacuc institutional animal care and use committee ogtt oral glucose tolerance test tc total cholesterol tg triglyceride ldl low density lipoprotein hdl high density lipoprotein nd normal diet hfd high fat diet nd control rats obstz obese diabetic rats obstzia obese diabetic rats administered orally with i. aquatica ethanolic extract cmc carbox- ymethyl cellulose naod sodium deuterium oxide tsp trimethylsilyl propionic acid-d4 sodium salt d2o deuterium oxide vip variable importance projection 3-hb 3-hydro- xybutyrate mna 1-methylnicotinamide bcaa branched chain amino acid acac acetoacetate tca tricarboxylic acid ffa free fatty acid kb ketone bodies gfr glomerular filtration rate corresponding author at laboratory of natural products institute of bioscience universiti putra malaysia 43400 upm serdang selangor malaysia.e-mail address f. abas.r09e4ce4i-v7e1d137acug2u0s1t 720e1ls6evrieercegimvebdhi.narlelvriisgehdtsforermser2v4eda.ugust 2017 accepted 10 october 2017. by mainly focusing on carbohydrate metabolism and fibre several studies have demonstrated the relationship between a high intake of fruits and vegetables especially green leafy vegetables with reduced risk of having type 2 diabetes t2dm as well as reducing post- prandial glucose in t2dm patients .

although i. aquatica ethanolic extract did not significantly alter the glucose concentration in the serum biochemistry result the plsda result a and b showed that only a few metabolites in the glucose region can be identified in obstzia compared to the obstz group.

this result is also supported by the result from glucose uptake in 3t3-f442a that showed that i. aquatica ethanolic extract has the ability to increase glucose uptake alone or together with insulin in adipocyte cells.

all the data were presented as mean - standard deviation sd.resultscharacterization of i. aquatica ethanolic extractthe uhplc-dad chromatograms of i. aquatica ethanolic extract  showed the presence of phenolic compounds including caffeic acid catechin chlorogenic acid isochlorogenic acid a and iso- chlorogenic acid c and quercetin derivatives quercetin glucoside quercetin malonyl glucoside and quercetin diglucoside.

peak assignments 1 chlorogenic acid 2 caffeic acid 3 quercetin glucoside 4 quercetin malonyl glucoside 5 isochlorogenic acid a 6 isochlorogenic acid b 7 catechin and 8 quercetin diglucoside.table 1phenolic compounds present in i. aquatica ethanolic extract.quantitative analysis 250 mg of i. aquatica ethanolic extract contains1.00 - 0.03 mg of caffeic acid 0.50 - 0.28 mg of chlorogenic acid0.79 - 0.08 mg of quercetin glucoside 0.59 - 0.02 mg of quercetin malonyl glucoside 2.19 - 0.19 mg of quercetin diglucoside0.15 - 0.02 mg of catechin 0.33 - 0.01 mg of isochlorogenic acid a and 1.20 - 0.06 mg of isochlorogenic acid c .

phenolics are well known compounds that previously contributed to anti- hyperglycemic activity of i. aquatica .glucose uptake activity of i. aquatica ethanolic extract-stimulated 3t3- f442athe capabilities of i. aquatica ethanolic extract as antihyperglycemic agent was tested in 3t3f442a adipocytes cells.

