note that these preparations of human cells are a mixture of cell types but the results lead us to hypothesize that meco-1 and alpha-msh with cells from humans will resemble the meco-1 and alpha-msh interactions with mc1r-linked events observed in mice.anti-receptor antibodywith macrophage-like raw cells in vitro an antibody directed against the mc1r anti-mc1r-ab effectively blocked the anti- inflammatory effects of meco-1 and of alpha-msh fig.

found that their receptor antibody caused tnf release to exceed that induced by lps alone they proposed that their macrophages released endogenous alpha-msh.also note that we did not exclude some possible effects of normal igg on the dampening of hmgb1's effects by alpha-msh or meco-1.agouti the in vivo natural endogenous antagonist of alpha- msh actions via mc1r reversed the attenuation by meco-1 and by alpha-msh of lps-induced tnf release.

to compare meco-1 to alpha-msh in a system independent of both mc1r and the accompanying anti- inflammatory effects we used the physiological meal terminating effects of alpha-msh.

this phenomenon is mimicked well by infusing alpha-msh via cannullae into the hypothalamus of feeding mice in a preliminary set of experiments meco-1 gave concentration and time- dependent blunting of feeding that was very similar to that obtained with alpha-msh data not shown.possible wider distributiontraditionally commensal microbes in the gut and their products were believed to be confined to the lumen of the gut.

while the primary sequences of amino acids 1-13 are identical in acth and alpha-msh the latter has two post-translational moieties an n-terminal acetyl and a c-terminal amide that are important for full potency of alpha-msh.

in this study one alpha-msh animal died on the last day of the experiment so that the benefit of alpha- msh escaped significance p  0.08 changed from p  0.05. note that the high dose of meco-1 is equal in mgkg to the high dose alpha-msh but is less than half on a molar basis.

acetate and butyrate have been implicated the molecules that mediate this communication have hardly been characterized.in the presentpaper we introduce a melanocortin-like peptide spontaneously released from eschericia coli during growth in a simple medium meco-1  melanocortin-like peptide of e. coli that has structure and function in mammalian systems that is close to alpha- melanonocyte-stimulating hormone alpha-msh and adrenocor- ticotropin acth the best studied melanocortin hormones of humans mice and other mammals.-in vitro in model systems all three peptides at femtomolar concentrations acting via the mammalian melanocortin-1 receptor mc1r potently inhibit cytokine release in response to pro-inflammatory stimuli.

more dramatically meco-1 is at least as powerful as alpha-msh in rescuing mice from death due to sterile lipopolysaccharide lps- induced sepsis and polymicrobial cecal ligation-induced sepsis.

note especially the amino acid sequence overlaps of meco-1 with the amino-terminal region of alpha-msh and acth.

s-1a.meco-1 and alpha-msh inhibit cytokine releasemacrophage-like raw 264.7 cells highly express melanocortin-1 receptors mc1rs linked to anti-inflammatory processes.when incubated overnight these cells release modest amounts of hmgb-1 a powerful pro-inflammatory cytokine fig.

the lps-induced cytokine secretion was markedly reduced in the presence of meco-1 or alpha-msh fig.

acth 1-39 at the same molar concentrations gave results indistinguishable from meco-1 and alpha-msh data not shown.with macrophage-like raw 264.7 cells hmgb-1 stimulated a rapid multifold increase in the release of tumor necrosis factor- alpha tnf-alpha.

a and alpha-msh fig.

a. attenuation was observed at 10-15 m with both meco-1 and alpha-msh.

meco-1 and alpha-msh at concentrations above that had somewhat reduced effects fig.

