in the case of foodborne pathogenic bacteria like e. coli o157h7 and salmonella their extremely low infectious dose combined with their ability to associate in multispecies communities brings to an extra chal- lenge from the food safety standpoint.when testing situations related to food industry it is im-portant to use procedures that are relevant to the environ- ment in which the microorganisms will be exposed and so in the present study the following factors were taken in mind to approximate to a real model 1 yeast strain isolated from a plant after cleaning and disinfection 2 apple juice as culture medium 3 incubation of cultures at 25degc which is usual in apple juice processing plants 4 stainless steel aisi 304 used as food contact material.to study the interactions between e. coli o157h7 s. ente- rica and c. krusei two different cases were tested a simul- taneous co-adhesion surface colonization by pathogenic bacteria and yeasts condition a and b incorporation of bacteria to pre-adhered c. krusei cells condition b. the in- corporation of yeasts to pre-adhered bacteria biofilms is not contemplated assuming that this one is the least probable case on the basis of the microbial population frequencies present in fruit juice processing plant.materials and methodsmicroorganisms and culture conditionsfor the present study two bacteria strains were used esche- richia coli o157h7 edl 933 and salmonella enterica se- rotype enteritidis isolated from poultry in our laboratory and one yeast strain candida krusei previously isolated from ultrafiltration uf membranes as described in tarifa et al.

on the other hand candida's supernatant showed no significant p  0.05 effect in the adhesion capability of e. coli and s. enterica to ss at 24 h exposure.discussionthe goal of the present study was to determine how interac- tions between bacteria and yeast alter their ability to attach and colonize abiotic surfaces.in an attempt to clarify the interactions between a common food spoilage yeast and two pathogenic bacteria involved in outbreaks associated with fruit juices the present paper studies the effect of the interplay of c. krusei collected from uf membranes with e. coli o157h7 and s. enterica in the overall process of adhesion and colonization of abiotic sur- faces.the ability of candida krusei to tolerate a diverse range of environmental conditions low ph low aw preservatives and oxygen tension together with a number of metabolic activities carbohydrate metabolism protein and polysac- charide hydrolysis and a great capacity to adhere and form biofilms in food processing facilities under a wide range of conditions brugnoni et al.

with mechanical and process automation the surfaces are in repeated contact with raw juice thus in- creasing the opportunities for s. enterica and e. coli o157h7 to transfer and attach leading to biofilm formation.to the best for our knowledge there is no information on interactions between c. krusei isolated from food processingequipment and e. coli o157h7 and s. enterica both known to attach to abiotic surfaces such as those of industrial facili- ties giaouris et al.

krusei at initial colonization phase 90 min to 24 h. simil- arly they noted a growth retardation of c. albicans c. glab- rata c. tropicalis and c. krusei at the initial colonization stage in the presence of e. coli supernatant but most significantly at maturation stage after 24 h. park et al.

as seen in table 1 the greater percentages of co-aggregation were seen for c. krusei and e. coli o157h7 with no significant differences p  0.05 along the time intervals assayed whereas for c. krusei and s. enterica co-aggregation raised from 66 to 76p  0.01 from 5 to 120 min.after 120 min trial a sample from the bottom of each test- ing tube was taken gram stained and watched at optical microscope primo star-zeiss.figure 1a to c show the morphological changes from pure cultures of c. krusei fig.

2010. hence our study focused on identify- ing the effects of e. coli 0157h7 and s. enterica extracel- lular products on c. krusei attachment and colonization at a cellular level but also the potential implication of candida supernatant in the performance of both bacteria.we found that candida krusei showed a reduction in the adhesion on ssc surface when exposed to e. coli o157h7's and s. enterica's supernatant.

enterica were put in contact with the ssc and incubated at 25degc for 24 h.pre-adhered c. krusei cells condition b the following con- dition tested was the scenario where pathogenic bacteria en- counter an already colonized surface in this case by yeasts the scenario of pre-colonized surface by bacteria is the leastreleased from the cells during growth.to examine the antimicrobial effect on the adhesion capa- city bacterial supernatants were tested against adjusted sus- pensions of c. krusei and vice versa yeast supernatant was tested against each bacteria suspension.

2014.in this study when testing situations related to fruit juice processing industry we found that s. enterica and e. coli o157h7 are able to produce various cell surface structures that may result in the efficient co-aggregation of its own cells with each other as well as with cells of c. krusei facilitating thereby the formation of multi-species communities on food contact surfaces supporting the colonization and expansion of these foodborne pathogens.

results of the present study demonstrated that bacterial pathogens such as e. coli o157h7 and s. enterica and spoil- age yeast such as c. krusei can be entrapped in multi-species sessile communities formed on inadequately cleaned and dis-infected food processing surfaces.

is evident that eukaryotes and prokaryotes possess diverse signaling mechanisms to detect and respond to each other.the above findings suggest that the interplay of primary microbiota with pathogens may enhance or reduce its capa- city to adhere and colonize contact surfaces of juice facilities thereby contributing to cross-contamination during juice processing.this is of significant relevance since it highlights that the control of environmental microorganisms promoting adher- ence of foodborne bacteria can be an important measure to prevent establishment of pathogenic e. coli and salmonella enterica in food processing environments.undoubtedly future studies on multi-species biofilms for- med under food relevant conditions will shed light on this fascinating research area.acknowledgementsthe authors would like to thank dr al cunningham profe- ssor emeritus of civil engineering at montana state uni- versity msu for her useful comments and suggestions on the language during preparation of this manuscript.we thank the consejo nacional de investigaciones cien- tificasy tecnicas de la republica argentina pip 112-201101- 00438 and agencia de promocion cientificay tecnologica ministerio de educacion ciencia y tecnologia of argentina pict 2011 ndeg 0697 for funding this research.conflict of interestthe authors have no conflicts of interest to declare.referencesalonzo a.g. 2013. influences of simultaneous physicochemical stresses on injury and subsequent heat and acid resistances of salmonella enteritidis in apple juice.

candida krusei isolated from fruit juices ultrafiltration membranes promotes colonization of escherichia coli o157h7 and salmonella enterica on stainless steel surfacesto clarify the interactions between a common food spoilage yeast and two pathogenic bacteria involved in outbreaks as- sociated with fruit juices the present paper studies the effect of the interplay of candida krusei collected from uf mem- branes with escherichia coli o157h7 and salmonella en- terica in the overall process of adhesion and colonization of abiotic surfaces.

several s. enterica and e. coli o157h7 outbreaks have been attributed to consumption of apple and citrus juices cheng et al.

therefore for bacterial assays stock cultures of e. coli o157h7 and s. enterica were acid-adapted in apple juice in accordance with tarifa et al.

coli o157h7 and s. enterica was measured as described by collado et al.

in all cases cell-free supernatants were mixed with the corresponding adjusted suspension of e. coli o157h7 s. enterica and c. krusei in a ratio 11. these suspensions were put in contact with the ssc and incubated at 25degc for 24 h.quantification of single and mixed culturesto determine the final composition of the resulting surface attached cultures in each assay the number was estimated by placing the sscs into a test tube with glass beads and vor- texed to full speed for 3 min in order to remove the adherent microorganisms lindsay and von holy 1997. in each in- cubation period samples were serially diluted with pbs and determined by pour plate technique by plating bacteria 1 ml on tryptic soy agar tsa difco and for yeast 1 ml in ygc agar merck by triplicate.

