c colostrum samplesn 16 t transitional milk samples n 14 m mature milk samples n 28. detection limit was established at 103 cellsml estimated as the lowest concentration at which 95 of the positive samples are detected.table 2. fungal species detected by pyrosequencing mean proportions per total number of sequences and prevalence.

relative abundances of fun- gal genera from the 10 sequenced milk samples were compared with the amounts of nutritional components fat protein lactose and non-fatty solids and the number of human somatic cells as well as with the microbial bacterial and fungal load content in paired milk samples in order to find potential correlations among them fig.

breastmilk samples from healthy lactating mothers n 65 within 1 month after birth were analyzed in this study colostrum n  16 transitional milk n  14 mature milk samples n  28. details of mode of delivery and gestational age were collected after birth.

the prevalence of samples with detectable fungal presence was 1618 in colostrum 1418 in transitional milk and 2829 in mature milk.

the majority of the samples presented correspond to mature milk samples except for bmf5 and bmf8 colostrum and bmf9 transitional milk.figure 4. relationships between fungal taxa relative abundance and nutritional cellular and bacterial content of human breastmilk.

some fungal species found in our samples have also been detected in the human gut namely candida species malassezia cladosporium debaromyces and s. cerevisiae.as some of the species found in our milk samples can also be detected in the oral cavity and the human skin we cannot discard the possibility of transfer of fungi from the skin surrounding the breast to the breastmilk as well as from the baby's skin or mouth transferred during suckling.

however the characterization of fungal organisms in milk from healthy mothers is currently unknown although their presence has been reported in the infant gut and also in milk from other mammals.

fungi were detected in 17 of the samples representing 41 of all analyzed samples leading to the identification of 33 isolates either with one or two primer pairs used in an identification pcr table .

the mtdna restriction patterns of the isolated s. cerevisiae strain fbmi18 from our milk samples was identical to the commercial baker strain cinta roja profile and the d-pcr amplification patterns were highly similar suggesting a correspondence between both strains supplementary figure 2c.fungal load in breastmilk.

after analyzing 65 milk samples by qpcr results showed that 58 89 had detectable levels of fungi when using primers targeting the its1-5.8 s rrna region with high inter-individual variability and a total median of 35 x 105 cellsml.

samples were classified in three groups according to their collection time point colostrum 1st-6th day postpartum transitional 7th-14th day postpartum and mature milk from 15th day onwards.

similar fungal load values at the three time points were observed with higher lev- els in colostrum 41 x 105 cellsml and transitional milk 45 x 105 cellsml and slightly lower values in mature milk 28 x 105 cellsml although no statistical differences were found between them fig.

in this previous study milk samples were found to have around 106 bacterial cellsml when detecting the single copy bacterial gene fusa that is ten-fold higher than the fungal fraction estimated in the current work.

c. parapsilosis sequences were also obtained in this work by high-throughput sequencing technology although it was not among the most prevalent species.the phenotypical and molecular characterization of the most prevalent isolates from our milk samples r.mucilaginosa and c.parapsilosis as well as the single s. cerevisiae isolate provided additional biological infor- mation regarding these organisms.

in this study malasezzia was not isolated from any of the tested human milk samples and lactose utili- zation could not be assessed to confirm the correlation found.

