to test this we infected and drug cured wt and pla2g1b-- mice to elicit robust type 2 immune responses  and challenged mice with vehicle- or pla2g1b-treated l3 larvae model d. wt mice cleared the majority of either vehicle or pla2g1b-treated h.p.

in pla2g1b-- mice was not due to altered lipid metabolism or known immune-mediated or stromal-associated expulsion mechanisms.to determine the source of pla2g1b and its regulation we monitored pla2g1b expression in duodenal tissue following 1o infection 1o infection and drug cure and 2o infection.

f. the enzymatic activity of pla2 in the small in- testine was marginally increased in susceptible mice but dramat- ically increased in resistant mice figure s1c reflecting a broad increase in several pla2 enzymes in resistant mice figure s1d.

2o we identified three transcriptional clusters based on their expression relative to uninfected mice and relative to susceptible mice h.p.

infection.frequency of il4gfpcd44hi cd4 cells in the mesenteric lymph node mln and the spleen of mice 7 days after 2o infection.frequency of cytokine cd4cd44hi cells in the mln of mice 7 days after 2o infection.ex vivo h.p.

antigen-specific cytokine production from the mln of mice 7 days after 2o infection.gene expression in the small intestine of mice 7 days after 2o h.p.

upon 1o infection rag--cg-- mice fail to expel pla2g1b- treated larvae unlike wt mice f these data highlight the clear requirement of a competent immune compartment for parasite expulsion.

see also figure s1 and tables s1-s3.. following drug cure of a 1o infection rx c57bl6 mice are resistant to a secondary 2o h.p.

infection were comparable to wt mice including both cd4 and cd8 t cells ilc2s which support early th2 differentiation   and regulatory t cells which inhibit type 2 immune responses  figures s2c-s2j and s3a.figure 3. intestinal pla2g1b is regulated by the microbiota and rag- and common gamma chain-dependent cells in resistant micekinetics of pla2g1b expression in the small in- testine during h.p.

worms in the small intestine 14 days after 1o infection following 24 hr treatment with pla2g1b n  10 data pooled from two in- dependent experiments.pla2g1b-- or wt mice were orally infected with 200 l3 h.p.

pla2g1b was significantly upregulated 14 days after drug cure of a 1o infection day 28 and was maintained with or without a 2o infection a and f. this correlated with the develop- ment and maintenance of resistance to 2o infection.

importantly expression of tuft cell markers which peaked transiently following infection did not correlate with pla2g1b expression which was upregulated following drugcure of 1o infection and maintained with or without 2o challenge infection.

remaining mice were drug treated rx on days 14 and 15. mice were then reinfected withh.p.

un- like wt mice g. it is important to note that under these 2o challenge conditions in rag--cg-- mice we cannot distin- guish the requirement of rag--cg---driven pla2g1b expres- sion required for parasite killing from rag--cg---dependent immune responses required for expulsion.nevertheless these data demonstrate that pla2g1b has direct anthelminthic properties distinct from type 2 immune re- sponses and that pla2g1b is essential for intestinal helminth clearance during 2oh.p.

pla2g1b--il4gfp mice were generated by crossing pla2g1b-- and 4get mice at the francis crick institute.

