The trial aim is to explore the effects of eight weeks of probiotics therapy in physical pain impact of the FMS and quality of life emotional depression and anxiety and cognitive symptoms attention memory and impulsivity in FMS patients as compared to placebo.Conclusion This pilot study is the first to our knowledge to evaluate the effects of probiotics in FMS.

The study was registered with ClinicalTrial.gov NCT02642289.RANDOMIZATION AND BLINDINGThis study was double blinded using identical matching place- bo and probiotics.

El objetivo del estudio es explorar el efecto de un tratamiento multiespecies probioticas durante ocho semanas en la sintomatologia fisica dolor impacto del FMS y calidad de vida emocional depresion y ansiedad y cognitiva atencion memoria e impulsividad en pacientes con FMS.Conclusion el protocolo de este estudio piloto a nuestro conocer es el primero que pretende evaluar los efectos de los probioticos en FMS.

The duration and the daily pills intake was the same than in the probiotics groups.INTERVENTION TIMELINEFigure 1.Study timeline.were identical and each one contained 60 pills probiotics and placebo pills were indistinguishable in color taste and smell.

Their symptoms include chronic generalized and diffuse pain disorders as well as fatigue depression sleeping disorders 1 self-reported reduced mental performance 14-18 and cognitive deficits in inhibition and decision-making processes 64.Previous studies with probiotics in population with a great comorbidity with FMS like CFS and IBS 6111265 have report- ed beneficial effects after treatment in quality of life 60 pain severity 67 reduced inflammation 68 and emotional symptoms like anxiety 69.To our knowledge the current pilot study is the first random- ized controlled trial evaluating the effects of probiotics on FMS.

This was designed as a pilot study planned to assess feasibility attrition completion of study procedures and recruitment challenges prior to undertaking a larger study.

Hence we cannot exclude that the consumption of probiotics will be accom- panied by spontaneous dietary changes that may have indirectly accounted for the observed effects.Despite the limitations the results of this study will provide the first evidence of the effect of probiotics on FMS.

Se utilizan cuestionarios validados tareas cognitivas a traves de E-Prime y medidas biologicas como cortisol de orina y muestras de heces.

Inf Psiquiatr 1996146465-72.Conde V Useros E. Adaptacion castellana de la escala de evaluacion con- ductual para la depresion de Beck.

Therefore the use of probiotics might be a new treatment that could improve the physical psychological and cognitive state in FMS however no evidence about this issue is available.Methods This paper describes the design and protocol of a double-blind placebo-controlled and randomized pilot study.

