however more research is needed to fully elucidate the mechanisms by which sphingolipids act in inflammation and to further test the possible beneficial clinical impacts of dietary sphingolipids on chronic inflammation-related metabolic diseases.figure 2. potential effects of dietary sphingolipids relevant to acute andor chronic inflammation.

results from animal studies examining the effects of dietary sphingolipids on inflammation are summarized in table .nutrients 2017 9 118012 of 24table 2. animal studies examining the effects of dietary sphingolipids on inflammation.sphingolipid sourceanimal modeldiet and durationresultsrefmice were acclimated to ain-76 diet for 3 days before the sphingomyelinmale jciicr mice n  10groupaddition of 0.1 sm wtwt unspecified source.

further research is necessary to confirm the reported anti-inflammatory effects of dietary sphingolipids and delineate their impacts on endogenous sphingolipid metabolism.keywords sphingomyelin sphingolipids ceramide sphingosine inflammation obesity atherosclerosis diabetes macrophageintroductionchronic inflammation contributes to the development of many major metabolic diseases common in western societies including diabetes non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and atherosclerosis.

overall animal studies examining the effects of sphingolipid and polar lipid mixtures on acute inflammation show a reduction in inflammatory responses.clinical trialsalthough numerous pre-clinical studies show potential anti-inflammatory effects of sphingolipids only a limited number of clinical trials explore the potential benefits of dietary sphingolipids in attenuating inflammation.

this could be related to the pro-inflammatory effects of higher doses of sphingolipids reported in cell studies.high-fat diet-induced inflammationwe have recently reported that feeding 0.25 wtwt of the diet of milk sm to high-fat fed mice reduced circulating endotoxin activity in c57bl6j mice fed a western-type diet for four weeks .

2011  pparg-- mice msm recovery time from dss survival mrna of pro- and anti- inflammatory genes4 mg esm c57bl6 intestinal epithelial cell ceramide colitis score weight loss epithelial damage score apoptotic cellssphingomyelinc57bl6j mice n  17group il-10-- mice n  5groupcolitis was induced in c57bl6j mice using 0.2 dss in drinking water.il-10-- develop spontaneous colitis.

2011 sphingomyelinmale c57bl6j mice n  10groupmilk-derived sm esm or msm for 4 weekbifidobacterium - fitc-dextran gut permeabilitynorris et al.. 2016  esm - serum lpsmsm serum ccl2 adipose inflammatory mrnasphingomyelinmale c57bl6 mice n  14mice were fed hfd 60 kcal from fat 0.15 cholesterol by weight 0.1 wtwt egg- or milk-derived sm esm or msm for 10 weekf480 tnf-aesm serum ccl2 adipose crown-like structures adipose inflammatory mrna f480 cd68 cd11c ccl2 tnf-a hepatic ccl2 mrnanorris et al.

the fact a dairy cow's diet can alter milk fatty acid composition provides a confounding variable that is important to consider when interpreting these studies  as it makes it more likely there will be batch-to-batch variation in sphingolipid structure.dietary sphingolipids and acute inflammationanti-inflammatory effects of dietary sphingolipids in vitroseveral cell studies utilizing exogenous long chain dietary-derived sphingolipids have shown these lipids to be anti-inflammatory.

therefore the cellular effects of s1p in the context of inflammation are complicated.dietary sphingolipids and inflammationsphingolipids in the human dietearly studies on dietary sphingolipids focused on their potential role in colorectal cancer prevention for an in-depth review see ref .

in a western diet most dietary sphingolipids come from animal sources  therefore most dietary sphingolipids are in the form of sm .

the limited number of human studies along with the use of complex mixtures of phospholipids makes it difficult to pinpoint the effects of sphingolipids on post-prandial inflammation.dietary sphingolipids attenuate models of chronic inflammationcolitis modelsdietary milk sm 0.1 wtwt was shown to modestly ameliorate dss-induced colitis in a pparg-dependent manner despite elevations in immunostimulatory gene expression including ccl111920 and cxcl911 .

these studies demonstrate mechanistic evidence for exogenous sphingolipids other than sm and its derivatives to have inhibitory effects on inflammation.

basal levels of sm may be necessary for inflammatory signaling as shown by the sm synthase-knockout models being resistant to inflammatory stimuli.role of phosphorylated sphingolipid metabolites in inflammationceramide-1-phosphate involvement in inflammation signaling is not well established.

mice were gavaged witheither water 4 mg or 8 mg egg-derived sm esm suspended in watermice were fed hfd 45 kcal from fat - 0.25 wtwt egg- orcathepsin d caspase-3 activity8 mg esm c57bl6 sphingosine in iecs with no dss sm in iecs with dss treatment colitis score weight loss epithelial damage score apoptosis4 mg esm il-10--  colitis score and weight lossmsm serum lps fecal  gram-negative bacteria fecal fischbeck et al.

milk sm 8 ugml ceramide 10 um and sphingosine 10 um inhibited lps-induction of mcp-1 and tnf-a mrna expression in raw 264.7 macrophages the effects of milk sm were found to be dependent on sm hydrolysis .

