the fecalexperiment icontrol n  4104 cfu c. dijfi bbyang thiyong sinecile n  4 106 cfu c. dijfi bbyang thiyong sinecile n  4formula feedingthanasiaexperiment iicontrol n  6108 cfu c. dijfi bbyang thiyong sinecile n  6experiment iiicontrol n  6108 cfu c. dijfi bbyang thiyong sinecile n  6experiment ivab  108 cfu c. dijfi bbyang thiyong sinecile n  6 108 cfu c. dijfi bbyang thiyong sinecile n  1212345678910figure 1. scheme of the 4 experiments i-iv of clostridium difficile ribotype 078 infection in neonatal piglets indicating the beginning of formula feeding along with placement of the animals into the artificial rearing units time point of infection with c. difficile 078 antibiotic clindamycin treatment and day of dissection which occurred on the same day as euthanasia.

here we found that treatment of study piglets with clindamycin before c. difficile infection diminished the c. difficile and toxin loads as compared to levelsformula feeding and c. difficile in piglets  jid 2017xx xx xxxx  5ab150sp125100fp7550sp1.201.000.800.600.40fpfp-cdfp-cdlactobacillus mitsuokella megasphaera oscillibacter subdoligranulum desulfovibrio fusobacteriumc1.5prevotella ruminococcus methanobrevibacter alistipes escherichia shigella turicibacterphascolarctobacterium bifidobacterium roseburiadorea streptococcus enterococcusother genera n  108clostridium blautia bacteroides collinsella lachnoclostridium butyricimonas0.200sp0.250.20fpfp-cdescherichialactobacillusroseburiamegasphaeraclostridium oscillibacterstreptococcuslachnoclostridiumbifidobacterium methanobrevibacter0.15enterococcusmitsuokellaprevotella alistipesshigellaturicibactersubdoligranulumbustyricimonas0.10blautiadoreaphascolarcobacterium0.05ruminococcuscollinsellafusobacteriumbacteroides desulfovibrio0spfpfp-cd-1.0-1.00.621.5figure 3. a influence of formula feeding fp and formula feeding plus infection with clostridium difficile ribotype 078 fp-cd on the number of bacterial species shannon diversity index and distribution of bacterial species as revealed by the evenness index compared with age-matched and noninfected suckling piglets sp.

fp formula-fed pig- lets n  4 fp-cd formula-fed piglets infected with c. difficile n  4 fp-cd-ab formula-fed c. difficile-infected piglets treated with antibiotic n  4 sp suckling piglets n  4. p  .05 by 1-way analysis of variance and the tukey honest signifi- cant difference post hoc test for comparisons to the fp and fp-cd groups.immunoglobulin g against tcda in serum and milk from lactating sows which could provide essential protection of the neonate against cdi grzeskowiak et al unpublished data.

fecal specimens from suckling piglets formula-fed piglets and formula-fed c. difficile-infected piglets were used for metagenomics analysis.

spores of c. difficile ribotype 078 were produced and purified according to the protocol of grzeskowiak et al  and the concentration of inoculum in each trial was verified on chromid agar biomerieux france.animal groups consisted of formula-fed piglets fp formu- la-fed piglets with cdi fp-cd and formula-fed piglets with cdi pretreated with antibiotics fp-cd-ab.

high background levels of c. difficile and toxin were detected in formula-fed piglets prior to infec- tion while suckling piglets carried about 3-fold less c. difficile and toxin was not detected.

difficile ribotype 078 did not exhibit further aggravation of the disease while the toxins of c. difficile 078 have been foundformula feeding and c. difficile in piglets  jid 2017xx xx xxxx  71284spfpfp-cdfp-cd-abfigure 5. mean sum of microscopic lesion scores in the large intestine of 16 piglets from different feeding and rearing environments and challenged with clostridium difficile andor treated with antibiotic.

to study the conditions for c. difficile colonization and cdi development 48 neonatal piglets were moved into isolators fed bovine milk-based formula and infected with c. difficile 078. analyses included clinical scoring measurement of the fecal c. difficile burden toxin b level and calprotectin level and postmortem histopathological analysis of colon specimens.

formula-fed piglets were predisposed to c. difficile colonization earlier as compared to suckling piglets.

mesocolonic edema gas-filled distal small intes- tines and ceca were observed 3 days after infection in all ani- mals control and infection in trials ii and iii and in infectedformula feeding and c. difficile in piglets  jid 2017xx xx xxxx  3animals in trial iv and shortly after 7 days in infected animals in trial i. signs of infection were absent in suckling piglets .c.

however piglets of antibiotic-treated sows tend to have greater levels of c. difficile and toxins in their feces as compared to piglets from untreated sows .

further insights into factors affect- ing c. difficile colonization in both piglets and infants are thus of high relevance in the context of the one health approach.taken together our results demonstrate that formula feeding predisposes neonatal piglets to intestinal dysbiosis and favorsc.

the c. difficile burden in noninfected piglets fed formula or sow milk in the last experiment defined as the log c. difficile 16s rrna gene copy number was deter- mined by quantitative real-time pcr analysis .

the control piglets were also fed a formula and received a sham inoculum deionized water instead of c. difficile 078. in experiment iv 6 of 12 animals challenged with c. difficile 078 were pretreated with antibiotic ab.

in our studies fp animals were char- acterized by earlier colonization with toxigenic c. difficile and infection development as assessed by postmortem examination c.difficileandtoxinscouldalreadybedetectedatpostpartumday1 while in suckling piglets c. difficile was detectable at day 2 and toxins at day 4 after birth .

