13C enrichment values were lower in average in the upper subsoil U compared to topsoil or subsoil L. However overall relative abundance of 13C-enriched OTUs was found to be highest in subsoil U and subsoil L rhizosphere.

2015b alsoglycoside hydrolase activities were measured in the wheat rhizosphere from topsoil subsoil U as well as subsoil L and were generally lower in the upper subsoil as compared to topsoil and the lower subsoil.

Different mechanisms of plant growth promotion might fall together in single species and other bacteria in turn benefit from those mutualistic relationships.Lack of 13C enrichment in bacterial DNA in the upper subsoilInterestingly OTUs in the upper soil depth subsoil U showed a lower atom fraction excess on average when compared with the deeper subsoil L although the overall 13C content of the soil was not lower in the rhizosphere of subsoil U.

Whereas OTUs linked to Pro- teobacteria were enriched in 13C mainly in the topsoil in both subsoil layers OTUs related to Cohnella Pae- nibacillus Flavobacterium showed a clear 13C signal indicating an important so far overseen role of Firmi- cutes and Bacteriodetes in the subsoil rhizosphere.IntroductionThe microbiome of the rhizosphere has been considered as an important driver of functions contributing to plant health growth and yield Berg et al.

As most microbes colonizing the rhizosphere are acquired from the soil microbiome we expect a dominance of Firmicutes in the subsoil utilizing plant- derived carbon in the subsoil rhizosphere whereas in topsoil a dominance of Proteobacteria occurs.Results13C distribution pattern in the different soil and plant compartmentsAt the end of the experimental period 90 days Triticum aestivum formed a dense rooting network in all three ana- lyzed soil depths.

Topsoil 0 cm-20 cm Subsoil U upper subsoil 20 cm-50 cm Subsoil L lower subsoil 50 cm-80 cm.gene counts in heavy fractions of 13C-labelled treatments compared to the controls that is at BDs of 1.715 g-ml21 CsCl or higher Fig.

Richness and Shannon diversity H were significantly higher in rhizo- sphere samples of the topsoil ANOVA P  0.001 H 5 7.47 compared to subsoil U H 5 6.36 and subsoil L H 5 6.31.

Already at the phylum level significant differences were found between the soil depths a significantly higher abundance was observed for Acidobacteria in topsoil ANOVA P 5 0.001 for Acti- nobacteria in subsoil U P 5 0.004 and for Nitrospirae in subsoil L P 5 0.020.

In addition the overall relative abundance of Proteobacteria was reduced in the rhizo- sphere of the upper subsoil subsoil U P 5 0.001.

Up to 35 13C atom- enrichment were observed for specific OTUs while the uncertainty thresholds increased with soil depth topsoil - 1.0 subsoil U - 5.2 subsoil L - 16.0 13C atom-.

