httpsdoi.org10.1007s00784-017-2270-4clinical and microbiological effectiveness of photodynamic therapy on primary endodontic infections a 6-month randomized clinical trialrachel garcia de miranda1 ana paula vieira colombo 1received 29 august 2016  accepted 26 october 2017 springer-verlag gmbh germany 2017abstractintroduction this short-term randomized controlled trial eval- uated the effectiveness of photodynamic therapy pdt on clinical success periapical healing and on the microbiota of primary endodontic infections.methods thirty-two patients presenting mandibular molars with apical periodontitis one toothpatient were selected and randomly allocated into two therapeutic groups control chemo-mechanical debridement cmd n  16 and pdt cmd  pdt n  16. all teeth in both groups had intracanal medication with calcium hydroxide for 7 days before final obturation.

for the evaluation of radiographic healing at 3 and 6-month follow- up one patient in the control group could not be contacted and did not showed upn  3 than healed teeth n  13 either at baseline andor after therapy p  0.05. in relation to the presence of microbial species the control group did not present any correlationbetween the frequency of species and periapical healing chi-squared test p  0.05. in the pdt group table nodatum in t1 and n. mucosa in t3 presented positiveno significant differences between groups were observed for any parameter evaluated p  0.05 chi-squared and mann-whitney testspdt photodynamic therapya clinical symptoms were grouped and included pain percussion palpation and swelling measured by vas fig.

for the test group one additional pdtstep was carried out where- as for the control group the operator simulated a session of pdt by inserting the optical fiber into the canal without irra- diation so that patients were blind to treatments.treatment protocolsixteen patients were allocated in each therapeutic group control cmd  intracanal medication and pdt cmd  pdt  intracanal medication.

in this parallel- randomized controlled clinical trial rct we hypothesized that pdt combined to conventional endodontic therapy would demonstrate superior healing and greater reduction of micro- organisms than conventional therapy alone in the treatment of necrotic endodontic primary infection.

other species still detected after treat- ment in the control 10 species and pdt 11 species groups included actinomyces naeslundii i campylobacter rectus capnocytophaga s pp.

samples were obtained at baseline after cmd with or without pdt and just before root filling to determine the frequency and levels of 37 taxa by checkerboard.results significant decreases in pai scores were observed in both groups over time although at 6 months the pdt group presented a significantly better healing score than the control p  0.05. at baseline the most prevalent species in all sam- ples were candida albicans 46.9 dialister pneumosintes 31.2 prevotella nigrescens 28.2 prevotella tanneraeelectronic supplementary material the online version of this article  contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users.

both groups presented a significant improvement in periapical healing over time p  0.01. when comparing groups at each time point the pdt showed a significantly higher frequency of lower scores 81.3 of scores 1 and 2 than the control group 53.3 at 6 months p  0.022. no post-treatment clinical symptoms were reported for any patient.microbiological dataat baseline t1 27 out of 32 teeth showed at least one mi- croorganism with an average of 5 species ranging from 1 to24 per sample and the most prevalent microbial taxa werecandida albicans 46.9 dialister pneumosintes 31.2prevotella nigrescens 28.2 prevotella tannerae 28.1 followed by parvimonas micra 25.1 peptostreptococcus anaerobius 25.1 and propionibacterium acnes 24.9 supplementary table 2s.

rachel garcia de miranda ana paula vieira colombo 1 department of medical microbiology federal university of rio de janeiro institute of microbiology paulo de goes r. soares cabral 63702 laranjeiras rio de janeiro rj cep 22240070 brazil28.1 and peptostreptococcus anaerobius 25. most species reduced over time in both groups and no significant differences in frequency and levels of the tested species were observed between groups in any time point evaluated.albicans and d. pneumosintes were still detected in high frequency in both groups at 3 months post-therapy.

performed all procedures including recruitment endodontic treatment mi- crobiological sampling and follow-up evaluations.sample size calculation treatment allocation concealment and blindingsample size was calculated using the two-tailed hypothesis test with a significance level of 5 and power of 85 with an allocation ratio of 11. the estimated minimum sample size was 15 patients per treatment group.

no significant differences in mean counts between groups were found at any sampling time point p  0.05. however significant reductions were observed between baseline and t2 for p. micra and between baseline and t3 for c. albicans and p. micra in the control group whereas p. tannerea p. acnes and p. nigrescens decreased significantly from baseline to t2 and to t3 in the pdt group p  0.05. of interest c. albicans was still detected in high frequency at t 2  50.3 and t3 31.3 and pneumosintes was found in high frequency at t2 25 in both groups fig.

regarding the effect of pdt on c. albicans some studies indicate that pdt is a promising new alternative for treatment of oral candidiasis or even endodontic infections - however variable antimicrobial efficacy has been reported    .

the sampling time points were t1 baseline just before cmd t2 after cmd  final irrigation for the control group or after cmd  pdt  final irrigation for the pdt group and t3 right before root canal filling.

and .clinical and microbiological data correlationin order to determine whether specific microbial species ana- lyzed at different time points during treatment were related to periapical healing at 6 months post-therapy the pai scores were categorized into healed scores 1 and 2 and not healed scores 3-5 and the mean counts of species compared be- tween these categories within each group.

despite the microbial diversity conventional endodontic therapy with or without pdt led to similar and significant decrease in the majority of the species evaluated.

patients were excluded if they were younger than 18 years old were pregnant or nursing had a positive history of antibiotic andor anti-inflammatory therapy within theprevious 3 months needed antibiotic prophylaxis for dental treatment had previous endodontic treatment or were diabet- ic.

