developmental dynamics 247268-278 2018. vc 2017 wiley periodicals inc.key words neural crest enteric stem cell enteric progenitor cell enteric glia enteric neuron hirschsprung disease gut motility enteric neuropathiessubmitted 16 january 2017 first decision 14 july 2017 accepted 15 september 2017 published online 4 october 2017introductionthe enteric nervous system ens is the largest part of the peripheral nervous system.

developing new imaging analysis approaches in combination with optogenetic tools or calcium imaging approaches will be important technical advances to better understand ens function as well as what goes awry with regard to gut motility and other ens functions in zebrafish models of ens diseases.regulation of zebrafish ens developmentrecent studies have identified different genes and signaling path- ways that play a role in ens development fig.

zebra- fish larvae overexpressing pbcab show complete loss of enteric neurons similar to intestinal aganglionosis in hscr patients suggesting that there potentially are other meis proteins or other factors that pbx4 might interact with during ens development uribe and bronner 2015.the gdnfret signaling pathway sox10 and phox2bb are highly conserved signaling factors in ens developmentthe glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor gdnfret proto- oncogene ret signaling pathway and the transcription factors sex-determining-region y-box 10 sox10 and paired-like homeobox 2b phox2b play an important role during ens development in vertebrates shepherd and eisen 2011 lake and heuckeroth 2013. components of the gdnfret signaling path- way as well as sox10 and phox2b are hscr-associated genes.

learning the types of epcs pre- sent in the ens will also help to develop therapeutic strategies to repair enteric neuropathies with degenerative or developmental selective loss of particular types of enteric neurons.ens development is also regulated by signals from surrounding tissueother tissues such as the developing gut and surrounding mesen- chyme also play a role in ens development.

2017.future directionseven though the regulation of early steps of ens development are relatively well understood later steps of ens development remain poorly characterized in particular how the differentiation of enteric neurons and glia cells from enteric stem cell popula- tions is regulated.

in this review we will discuss key points of zebrafish ens development genes and signaling pathways regulating ens development as well as contributions of the zebrafish model system to better understand ens disorders.

the ens regulates all essential gut functions such as motility secretion nutrient uptake blood flow and homeostasis furness 2006. abnormal ens development causes human dis- orders including hirschsprung disease hscr heanue and pachnis 2007 wallace and anderson 2011. hscr a congeni- tal disorder in which varying degrees of the distal gut are unin- nervated is the leading cause of gut dysmotility heanue and pachnis 2007. this review will focus on work in zebrafish to elucidate the regulation of ens development function and disease.

specifically it will cover the different steps of ens development in zebrafish genes and signaling pathways that regulate ens development and how the zebrafish model has aided work and understanding of the molecular basis of ens diseases.

understanding the regulation of these later steps is particularly important for the possibility of using epc populations for therapeutic approaches to replace lost enteric neurons or glia cells.a set of conserved signaling factors regulates early steps of ens developmentthe transcription factors paired box 3 pax3 and forkhead box d3 foxd3 and the adp-ribosylation factor-like 6 interacting protein 1 arl6ip1 play an early role in neural crest development with effects on ens development montero-balaguer et al.

zebrafish have been successfully used for screening with pharmacological compounds due to their small size and large number of embryos rennekamp and peterson 2013 rennekamp and peterson 2015. zebrafish has thus been used to test the effect of drug compounds on ens development to find com- pounds that could contribute to hscr penetrance in predisposed children.a recent large-scale drug screen found different components that affect ens development and led to fewer enteric neurons especially in the distal gut lake et al.

from the work in mammals it is to be expected that also in the zebrafish ens there will be different types of enteric glia with diverse functions however as enteric neurons are only present in one layer in zebrafish they may not show an equally complex spatial distri- bution as in the mammalian ens.the zebrafish model is uniquely suited for in vivo analysis of gut motility parametersthe ens controls different functions of the gut importantly-- together with the mesodermally derived interstitial cells of cajal--the regulation of gut motility furness 2006. zebrafish are extremely well suited for in vivo imaging due to their optical clarity making them ideal model systems for gut motility studies and for analyzing the effects on gut motility in zebrafish models of human diseases.

they found five genes which had previously not been implicated in regulating ens development and hscr that show an ens phenotype upon knockdown confirmed by ens pheno- types on crisprcas9-injected f0 larvae gui et al.

2005. in sox10 mutant larvae enteric neurons are strongly reduced or completely absent as are gfap-positive enteric glia kelsh and eisen 2000. in sox10 mutant larvae strong defects in early steps of ens development have been observed elworthy et al.

developmental dynamics 247268-278 2018 doi 10.1002dvdy.24597gut feelings studying enteric nervous system development function and disease in the zebrafish model systemjulia ganzdepartment of integrative biology michigan state university east lansing michiganabstract the enteric nervous system ens is the largest part of the peripheral nervous system and is entirely neural crest-derived.

so far it has been suggested based on expression of the intermediate filament protein glial fibrillary acidic protein gfap that the first enteric glia cells are present about one day after enteric neurons start to differentiate and that gfap-positive cells get added over time hagstrom and olsson 2010. however the developmental time line of glial development the cellular mor- phology function and potential heterogeneity of enteric glial cells remain to be determined in zebrafish.

