nodes coloured pink or light green represent metabolites trending towards significance 005  p 01 with higher expression at 4 weeks and lower expression at 4 weeks respectively.brown et al.page 20table 1stool metabolites distinguishing rice bran consumption at 4 weeks compared to baselinebrown et al.page 21chemical classesmetabolic pathwaymetabolitepfold change 4 weeks baselinebrown et al.page 22chemical classesmetabolic pathwaymetabolitepfold change 4 weeks baseline metabolites with significantly p 005 higher expression in rice bran consumers at 4 weeks when compared with rice bran consumers at baseline metabolite ratio of 100  metabolites with significantly p 005 lower expression in rice bran consumers at 4 weeks when compared with rice bran consumers at baseline metabolite ratio of 100.compounds that have not been officially confirmed based on a standard but we are confident in its identity.table 2stool metabolites distinguishing rice bran n 9 and control diet n 10 groups at 4 weeks metabolites with significantly p 005 higher expression in rice bran consumers at 4 weeks when compared with control at 4 weeks metabolite ratio of 100  metabolites with significantly p  005 lower expression in rice bran consumers at 4 weeks when compared with control at 4 weeks metabolite ratio of 100.

a stool metabolites that were significantly different between 4-week and baseline time points with fold change values 500 and b stool metabolites that were significantly different between 4-week and baseline time points and had fold change values 500. metabolites with significance and were identified in the rice bran food metabolome see online supplementary table s3.brown et al.page 16fig.

table 2 features nineteen stool metabolites that were also increased in the rb 4 weeksrb baseline statistical comparison table 1. these stool metabolites included lower expressed amino acid metabolites s-methylglutathione 3-fold formimoglutamate 5-fold 4-methyl-2-oxopentanoate 3-fold 3-methyl-2-oxobutyrate 3- fold 3-methyl-2-oxovalerate 3-fold allo-isoleucine 3-fold n-acetylleucine 2-fold 4- methylthio-2-oxobutanoate 5-fold 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate 3-fold and phenylpyruvate 3-fold and the phytochemicals hesperidin 37-fold narirutin 15-fold diosmetin 5-fold eriocitrin 2-fold and solanidine 33-fold than was observed compared with control diet consumers after 4 weeks of rb dietary intervention and over time.

additional details on the rb metabolome can be found in zarei et al.28.overlap between the stool and rice bran food metabolomesthe thirty-nine significantly changed stool metabolites from rb consumers that were also present in the rb food metabolome are shown in fig.

furthermore multiple stool metabolites that originate from consumption of rb phytochemicals were identified.two stool metabolites with the highest degree of fold change between baseline and 4-week time points in rb consumers were b-hydroxyisovaleroylcarnitine and b-hydroxyisovalerate a 265-fold and 18-fold increase after consumption respectively.

of the ninety-three stool metabolites changed with rb consumption thirty-three metabolites increased and sixty metabolites decreased after 4 weeks fig.

4d displays the urea cycle arginine and proline metabolism pathways and significantly decreased homocitrulline n-methylproline and citrulline metabolites.brown et al.page 7metabolite profile and pathway distinctions between control and rice bran consumerscompared with control diet thirty-nine stool metabolites sixteen of which had higher expression in rb consumers were significantly different in the rb group after 4 weeks of consumption.

this dietary compound has relevance as candidate markers of glucose lipid and xenobiotic metabolism changes.the individual metabolites as well as the network of metabolic pathways that were modulated by rb consumption identified primary bile acid metabolism with a pathwaybrown et al.page 10impact score of 29. primary bile acids included glycochenodeoxycholate and taurocholate that were decreased nearly 4-fold in stool after 4 weeks of rb consumption.

finally the authors wish to thank all the study participants for their contribution to the trial.brown et al.page 11this work was supported by the national institutes health -national cancer institute 1r21ca161472 national institute of food and agriculture 2016-67001-24538 and the university of colorado cancer center - division of cancer prevention and control pilot award programme.the authors' responsibilities were as follows - e. p. r. and r. j. b. designed research and maintained study oversight e. c. b. conducted research d. g. b. analysed stool and rice bran for metabolites d. g. b. e. c. b. and e. p. r. wrote paper e. p. r. had primary responsibility for the final product.

stool samples were collected at baseline and 4 weeks and analysed using gc-ms and ultra-performance liquid chromatography- ms. stool metabolomics revealed 93 significantly different metabolites in individuals consuming rb.

this unique metabolome analytical approach was to dually investigate the stool metabolite profiles and rb food metabolome where the online supplementary table s3 illustrates the thirty-nine metabolites identified in both the rb metabolome and stool metabolome of rb consumers.

oncol rep. 2010 2353-59. pubmed 19956864brown et al.page 12islam ms nagasaka r ohara k et al.

results from this study have important dietary implications for prevention of primary and secondary crc recurrence in adults.brown et al.page 3methodsstudy population and stool sample collectioncrc survivors were recruited and enrolled in a parallel randomised controlled dietary intervention trial nct01929122 as previously described21.

inbrown et al.page 6addition hesperidin 37-fold apigenin 15-fold narirutin 15-fold hesperitin 12-fold enterodiol 11-fold diosmetin 5-fold enterolactone 4-fold eriocitrin 3-fold and homostachydrine 114-fold were reflective of increased phytochemical consumption and differentially expressed in the stool metabolome.metabolites were classified into metabolic pathway networks and analysed by diet group and time.

1a and b. these included n6-brown et al.page 8carboxymethyllysine an age which decreased by 2-fold in rb consumers' stool over 4 weeks.

