two of the most common classes of nps that have yielded biomedically interesting metabolites arise from polyketide synthase pks and nonribosomal peptide synthe- tase nrps biosynthetic gene clusters 5. in a growing number of studies individual next-generation sequencing reads np sequence tags npsts derived from pcr amplicons generated using primers targeting domains in pks or nrps gene clusters have been used to predict the biosynthetic richness and diversity present in environ- mental metagenomes 6-12. unfortunately the ad hoc nature of existing domain sequencing studies has made it difficult to identify environmental features associated with differences in either bio- synthetic domain composition or richness.to more systematically identify factors that correlate with changes in biosynthetic composition we sought to assess nrps adenylation ad domain and pks ketosynthase ks domain diversity across a well-characterized collection of soils derived from a large and ecologically diverse land mass.

ph and salinity have been found to correlate most strongly with changes in species composition or richness 29-31. from a practical perspective our results indicate that maximizing differences in collection-site lati- tude may provide a simple means for maximizing the biosynthetic gene cluster diversity used in future novel np discovery efforts al- though a more in-depth analysis of additional environmental vari- ables and combinations of environmental variables from a more geographically diverse collection of soils is needed to be able to understand causative factors driving the differences in biosynthetic composition at different latitudes.methodsaround 200 g of topsoil was collected from 397 australian sites along with a series of environmental variables for each site.

large-scale sequencing of environmental micro- biomes has the potential to shed light on the richness of bacterial biosynthetic diversity hidden in the environment how it varies from one environment to the next and what environmental factors corre- late with changes in biosynthetic diversity.

to facilitate this type of analysis on metagenome sequence data we have previously developed a web-based sequence analysis platform esnapd environmental surveyor of natural product diversity which automates the identification of meta- genomes that are predicted to contain gene cluster families of in- terest 36 37. using esnapd we searched our australian ks and ad npst datasets for metagenomes predicted to contain gene clusters that are related to nps of biomedical interest including np antibiotics antiproliferative agents immunosuppressants and an- tifungals.

due to the common ancestry of individual members within a family of gene clusters this is a good indicator of a functional relationship between an environmental gene cluster yielding an npst and a gene cluster family of interest.

in a process similar to the use of 16s genes amplified from environments to profile bacterial species diversity bacterial biosynthetic diversity can be assessed using degenerate primers targeting conserved genes found across large np bio- synthetic families.

edaphic factor were recorded for each soil collection site as they have been reported to potentially play roles in macro- and microorganism diversity in the environment 29- 31. to look for factors that might explain the correlation we ob- served between sample-site latitude and metagenome ks and ad domain composition nmds plots were annotated based on each of these environmental factors fig.

2012 the natural product domain seeker napdos a phylogeny based bioinformatic tool to classify secondary metabolite gene diversity.

2013 mapping gene clusters within arrayed metagenomic libraries to expand the structural diversity of biomedically relevant natural products.

using environmental variables collected at each soil site we looked for environmental factors that correlated with either high overall domain richness or changes in the domain composition.

the sequencing of dna extracted di- rectly from environmental samples environmental dna edna can be used to estimate bacterial biosynthetic domain richness in an environment and to gauge how biosynthetic domain composition varies from one environment to the next.

in this analysis the most consistent correlations were observed be- tween changes in biosynthetic domain composition and changes in latitude and to a lesser extent ph suggesting that both edaphic and nonedaphic factors may be important in determining the biosynthetic gene cluster content of environmental microbiomes.

causative factors that might explain this correlation could be an as-yet- unrecognized combination of environmental variables we have already measured or as-yet-unknown environmental variables.

one way npst data can assist with this is by identifying environ- ments that are rich in gene cluster families that are known to encode clinically important metabolites 29-35. biosynthetic gene clusters that encode families of structurally related metabolites generally share a common evolutionary ancestor and therefore exhibit high sequence identity.

this blast search identifies npsts that are more closely related to the biomedically relevant gene cluster fam- ilies of interest than to any other sequence gene cluster.

