Carranza et al.Figure 4 Morphological characteristics of colonies from A. niger aggregate strains in control Czapek Dox medium CZ A Czapek Dox medium without sucrose and supplied with glyphosate as the only carbon source CZC B Czapek Dox medium without K2HPO4 or NaNO3 and supplied with glyphosate as the only phosphorus CZP C and nitrogen source CZN D at 10 days of incubation.Furthermore these compounds were found in levels higher than 20 mgkg in seven samples of soybeans from a total of eleven samples analyzedA new regulation raised the permitted glyphosate levels in oilseed crops including soybean from 20 to 40 ppmInterestingly we found that four nontoxigenic Aspergillus section Flavi and two A. niger aggregate strains are able to grow consistently in a synthetic medium supplied with 101.0 and 1.5 mM glyphosate as sole carbon phosphorus or nitrogen source respectively.

Means with a letter in common are not significantly different in accordance with the LSD test p  0.05.Aspergillus growth in glyphosate media389Figure 3 Morphological characteristics of colonies from Aspergillus section Flavi strains in control Czapek Dox medium CZ A Czapek Dox medium without sucrose and supplied with glyphosate as the only carbon source CZC B Czapek Dox medium without K2HPO4 or NaNO3 and supplied with glyphosate as the only phosphorus CZP C and nitrogen source CZN D at 10 days of incubation.the two-way interaction were statistically significant for the Aspergillus section Flavi strains.

However similar values were foundAspergillus growth in glyphosate media391at -2.78 and -7.06 MPaWith regard to the A. niger aggre- gate strains lower growth rate values were observed in this study as compared to those previously found at -1.38 and-2.78 MPaReddy et al.reported that two A. flavus strains isolated from agricultural soils had similar radial growth values on rich medium control medium and medium supplied with 5 and 10 mM of glyphosate after 14 days of incubation.

In the medium supplied with glyphosate as nitrogen source a significant increase 24 to 44 in growth rate was observed as compared to the control CZ medium p  0.001.

Similarly to Aspergillus section Flavi velutinous or slightly floccose colonies with abundant production of black coni- dia were observed on the CZP medium C. Finally the A. niger strains produced colonies with scarce presence of mycelial growth and conidial heads on the CZN medium D.DiscussionThe variation of glyphosate levels in soil depends directly on the application rates as well as on the periodicity of rainfall.

The clear decrease of these parameters observed in the WA medium indicates that all the strains have a fast adaptation time to this medium lacking nutrients.

In a previous work Car- ranza et al.reported lag phases values of 18---23 h fromnontoxigenic Aspergillus section Flavi strains grown on low nutrient status medium soil-based medium supplied with 5---20 mM of glyphosate at -0.70 MPa.

Each medium was stab-inoculated with fungal spores from 7-day old cultures.

All of the Aspergillus section Flavi strains showed a significant increase from 24 to 44 in growth rate on the CZN medium as compared to controls.

The A. niger aggregate strains exhibited the same behavioral pattern under all the conditions tested except on the CZN medium.

