these findings sug- gested that nanoparticle curcumin induced cd103 cd8a- dcs in the inflamed colon.discussionwe demonstrated that nanoparticle curcumin effectively suppressed the development of dss- induced colitis through both inhibition of nf-kb activation and induction of mucosal tregs.treatment with nanoparticle curcumin induced an alteration of gut microbial structure and some parts of treg induction might be associated with this microbial change.recent reviews reported that 30 to 50 of patients with ibd use complementary and alter- native medicine cam  .

clinical application and the usefulness of nanoparticle curcumin have been already reported in some pathological condi- tions  -.curcumin has been reported to be effective in inducing and maintaining remission in patients with uc   suggesting a potential application of nanoparticle curcumin for the treatment of ibd.

nanoparticle curcumin was mixed with the powder form of a normal rodent diet containing 0.2 ww nanoparticle cur- cumin.

mice were divided into 4 groups control group control nanoparticle curcumin group theracurmin dss group dss and dss plus nanoparticle curcumin group dsstheracurmin.

differences resulting in p values less than 0.05 were considered to be statistically significant.resultsnanoparticle curcumin attenuates the development of dss-induced colitisto evaluate the preventive effect of nanoparticle curcumin on the development of dss colitis mice were treated with nanoparticle curcumin for 7 days prior to the start of dss administra- tion.

the histological inflammatory score was significantly lower in the dss plus nanoparticle curcumin group thaneffect of nanoparticle curcumin on the development of dss colitis.

these findings indicate that nanoparticle curcu- min suppresses the activation of nf-kb in the colonic epithelial cells.to investigate the direct effect of nanoparticle curcumin on colonic epithelial cells we used ht-29 cells.

similarly immunoblotting analysis indicated that the phosphorylation of ikba which is required for the activation of nf-kb  was markedly suppressed in the cells stimulated by tnf-a plus nanoparticle curcumin as compared to the cells stimulated by tnf-a in dose- dependent manner and .nanoparticle curcumin suppresses the expression of proinflammatory mediatorssince it is well known that nf-kb mediates the induction of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines which are involved in the pathogenesis of ibd  we next examined whether nanoparticle curcumin suppressed the mucosal mrna expression of proinflammatory cyto- kines and chemokines using real-time pcr.

this result indicates that nanoparticle curcumin suppressed the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines and consequently reduced the infiltration of neutrophils in the colonic mucosa.effect of nanoparticle curcumin on the gut microbial compositionthe previous study reported that polyphenols modulated the gut microbial composition .

as shown in  the proportion of cd4foxp3 tregs signifi- cantly increased in the dss plus nanoparticle curcumin group compared to the dss group.effect of nanoparticle curcumin on the fecal short-chain fatty acid scfa levels.

in this study we presented the first basic evidence that nanoparticle curcumin is a potential candidate for a new therapeutic option for ibd.suppression of dss colitis by treatment with nanoparticle curcumin was associated with inhibition of mucosal nf-kb activation.

taken together induc- tion of regulatory dcs by nanoparticle curcumin might contribute to the induction of tregs in the colonic mucosa.in conclusion nanoparticle curcumin suppressed the development of dss-induced colitis via the suppression of nf-kb activation and the expansion of tregs.

2017 nanoparticle curcumin ameliorates experimental colitis via modulation of gut microbiota and induction of regulatory t cells.

a newly developed nanoparticle curcumin shows improved absorbability in vivo.

in this study we examined the effects of nanoparticle curcumin named theracurmin on experimental colitis in mice.methodsbalbc mice were fed with 3 dextran sulfate sodium dss in water.

