numerical values in parentheses indicate representative chemical shifts in ppm 3-hydroxybutyrate 1.20 3-hydroxyisovalerate 1.27 acetoin 1.37 putative citrate 2.55 isobutyrate 1.08 isoflavone 6.56 putative indoxyl sulfate 7.50 phenylacetylglutamine 2.28 p-cresyl sulfate 2.34 and urea 5.80. cas casein md maltodextrin ppm parts per million q2 goodness of prediction r2 goodness of fit soy soy protein.effects of dietary protein on urinary metabolomechanges from baseline in the urinary metabolome were an- alyzed by 1h-nmr and metabolites with different concentra- tions relative to baseline between groups were identified by o-pls-da with all time points combined figure 4. the di- etary increase in protein intake had consistent effects on the urinary metabolome at various time points supplemental table 5. in both protein-supplemented groups the relativeconcentrations of the urinary aa-derived bacterial metabo- lites isobutyrate and the microbiota-host cometabolites indoxyl sulfate and phenylacetylglutamine were higher than in the md group figure 4a b. a targeted quantification of urinary phenylacetylglutamine confirmed that its concentration increased with dietary protein supplementation supplemental table 3. interestingly the relative concentrations of 3-hydroxyisovalerate 3-hydroxybutyrate and the cometabolite p-cresyl sulfate weredietary protein and gut health1015higher in the cas group only figure 4a c. two signals putatively assigned to acetoin and isoflavone were detected only in the soy group figure 4b c. last the abundance of butyricimonas was positively correlated with the urinary excretion of p-cresyl sulfate and phenylacetylglutamine figure 4d.effects of dietary protein on plasma metabolomein contrast to fecal and urinary metabolomes the effects of protein intake on changes from baseline in plasma metabolome were not related to the metabolic activity of the microbiota and were mostly characterized by a higher relative concentration of free aa creatinine and urea supplemental figure 4 supple- mental table 6.fecal water cytotoxicitythe effects of fecal waters on the viability of ht-29 cells were not affected by diet figure 5a.

participants received either dietary supplements composed of plant protein isolated soy protein su- pro670ip solae for the soy protein group soy group animal protein milk protein isolate enriched in micellar casein 92 pro- diet85b ingredia for the casein group cas group or digestible carbohydrate as an isocaloric control maltodextrin glucidex19 roquette for the maltodextrin group md group.

am j clin nutr 20171061005-19.keywords dietary protein protein source high-protein diet gut microbiota bacterial metabolites large intestine mucosa transcriptome overweight humansintroductionrecent studies have highlighted the pivotal role of the gut microbiota in human health and diseases 1. among several environmental factors long-term dietary patterns and short-term dietary interventions have been shown to regulate the compo- sition of the gut microbiota and its metabolic activity 2. most clinical studies have previously focused on indigestible carbo- hydrates whereas the effects of dietary proteins on the gut microbiota have been much less studied.

metabolites with different concentrations relative to baseline between di- etary groups were identified by o-pls-da with all time points combined for identification of the global effect of each dietary intervention figure 2a-c. separate time point analyses showed that the dietary modulation of the fecal metabolome was mostly consistent across interventions supplemental table 2. the relative fecal concentrations of branched-chain aas were higher in the cas group than in the md group and the soy group figure 2a c. strikingly the relative concentration of butyrate was lower in the cas group and the soy group than in the md group figure 2a b. this effect was related both to a decrease in butyrate expressed as a relative proportion of total scfas in protein supplemented groups and to an increase in the md group supplemental table 3. the important decrease in butyrate in the cas group was associated with an increase in fecal ph figure 2d.

indeed we ob- served rather constant microbiota composition for a large ma- jority of participants along each dietary intervention but conversely large variations were measured for a minority of participants along the course of the intervention period sup- plemental figure 3. comparison of a and b diversity between dietary treatments with the use of species diversity metrics and principal coordinates analyses respectively also revealed no significant changes nor patterns in diversity over the course of the intervention period data not shown.effects of dietary protein on fecal metabolomechanges from baseline in the fecal metabolome were assessed with the use of untargeted 1h-nmr metabolomics and targeted measurements of the main bacterial metabolites.

the relative concentration of the isoleucine-derived bacterial me- tabolite 2-methylbutyrate was higher in both the cas group and the soy group than in the md group but this effect was more important with the cas diet figure 2a-c. compared with thecas group and the md group the soy group had a higher relative concentration of several aa-derived bacterial metabo- lites valerate phenylacetate and tyramine figure 2b c. targeted measurements confirmed that an increase in protein intake induced a shift toward protein fermentation by the gutdietary protein and gut health1013microbiota because the concentrations of aa-derived scfas were increased with specificities according to protein source used in the hpd supplemental table 3. interestingly a signal only detected in the soy group was putatively identified as acetoin figure 2b c a bacterial metabolite commonly de- tected in fermented soy foods 42.bacterial groups associated with aa degradation productsto identify bacterial groups associated with fecal metabolite patterns o-pls models were used to correlate bacterial abun- dances determined by 16s rdna sequencing with the metabolome analyzed by 1h-nmr supplemental table 4. the phylum fir- micutes abundance was associated with high concentrations ofmarkers of aa degradation by the gut microbiota and low tyrosine concentrations figure 3a.

because diets were iso- caloric carbohydrate intake decreased as expected in both the cas group and the soy group table 2. participants' body weights remained approximately stable during the dietary in- tervention and metabolic parameters in the fasting state were not affected by the amount of protein intake apart from a sig- nificant decrease in systolic blood pressure in the soy group that might be related to soy protein-associated isoflavones supplemental table 1.microbiota compositioncomparisons of the relative abundances of each taxonomic group from both fecal and rectal biopsy samples with the use generalized estimating equation analyses did not reveal signifi- cant changes between dietary treatments due to high interindividual variation observed for each taxonomic group supplemental figure 2. permutational anova analysis revealed that the per- centage of variance explained by diet in fecal samples quantified by the cv r2 was only 3 whereas the percentage of varianceexplained by participant sex weight bmi and age was 6 5.6 4 2.2 and 1 respectively.

in accordance with these results the dietary intervention had no effects on the concen- tration of proinflammatory cytokines ifn-g il-8 and tnf-a in the rectal mucosa and on the fecal concentrations of calpro- tectin and siga supplemental table 10. finally a histologic examination of the rectal biopsies revealed that the 3-wk dietary intervention did not induce any overt perturbation of mucosal morphology epithelial proliferation or sign of inflammation data not shown.discussionthe present dietary intervention study shows that hpds when consumed for 3 wk had no detectable effect on the composition of the fecal microbiota whereas they altered bacterial metabolite production in association with a clear modification of gene ex- pression in the rectal mucosa.

moreover the effects of hpds according to the source of protein need to be considered in this context.objective the objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of the quantity and source of dietary protein on microbiota composi- tion bacterial metabolite production and consequences for the large intestinal mucosa in humans.design a randomized double-blind parallel-design trial was con- ducted in 38 overweight individuals who received a 3-wk isocaloric supplementation with casein soy protein or maltodextrin as a con- trol.

in animal experiments hpds impaired colonic epithelial cell morphology mitochon- drial metabolism and increased mucus secretion but neither induced inflammation nor impaired colonic barrier function 21- 24. in humans hpds did not increase fecal water toxicity or genotoxicity in vitro 9 25. although the results of epidemio- logic studies are rather heterogeneous 26 2 studies have shown that a high amount of animal protein intake is associated with increased inflammatory bowel disease incidence and relapse 27 28. lastly the effects of protein sources from animals or plants on the intestinal ecosystem need to be investigated taking into account their different digestibility and aa composition 29 because such differences could potentially lead to divergent effects on the colonic luminal environment.in this context the aim of the present study was to evaluate inhumans the effects of the quantity and source of dietary proteins on the gut microbiota composition and metabolic activity and the consequences on the large intestinal mucosa.methodssubjectsforty-two healthy male and female participants were recruited from september 2014 to may 2015 at avicenne hospital bobigny france.

thus it is worth noting that for the other 50 of dietary proteins the precise con- sumption by the volunteers according to protein source remains unknown a situation that might have introduced some in- terindividual variability in terms of dietary protein intake.

importantly some of the effects of hpds were different according to the source of the dietary proteins.relatively few human studies have examined the effects of hpd on the gut microbiota and related bacterial metabolites produced by protein fermentation in detail 8 10 40 45. in the present study the in-depth analysis of the fecal and mucosa- associated microbiota in response to a hpd by high-throughput 16s rdna sequencing could not detect significant differences in bacterial composition and diversity between the dietary in- tervention groups.

collectively these results show that a hpd by itself is not sufficient to induce mucosal inflammation after 3 wk the effects were restricted to gene expression.in the hpd groups w50 of dietary protein was provided bythe supplement casein or soy protein.

protein absorption and ammonia production the effects of dietary protein and removal of the colon.

future work is required to evaluate especially in the long-term the impact of hpd depending on the protein source on large intestine mucosa homeostasis.we thank marie-claude amard for recruiting the subjects and collecting the samples aure'lie belvaux and katia spiczoneck for dietetic work agnes marsset-baglieri for her supervision of dietary supplement formulation francine walker and antoine martin for histological examinations nathalie kapel for fecal calprotectin measurements olivier cloarec for his supervi-sion of nmr data statistical analyses the genomic platform of the cochin institute for microarray experiments and laura barrios a' lvarez for super-vision of the microbiota statistical analysis.the authors' responsibilities were as follows--fb ys a-md rb dt and al designed the research mb kjp ns al vc m audebert gm nk m andriamihaja ga rb a-md ys spc and fb conducted the research mb kjp ns al m audebert fd a-md ys spc and fb analyzed the data mb kjp al a-md ys spc and fb wrote the manuscript fb had primary responsibility for the final content and all authors read and approved the final manuscript.

