however in this study cigarette smoke exposure did not significantly alter the levels of corynebacterium and lactococcus in the presence of established nasal pneumococcal colonization  suggesting that some commensal bacteria may not be impacted differently by s. pneumoniae in the context of cigarette smoke exposure compared to pneumococcal colonization alone.discussionin human smokers nasal microbiota dysbiosis has been described to be associated with increased pathogen colonization including that of s. pneumoniae   .fig 6 most abundant bacterial genera that are significantly increased in cigarette smoke-exposed mice at day 3 following established nasal pneumococcal colonization.

our findings suggest that clinical observations of nasal microbiota dysbiosis in smokers may occur as a consequence of cigarette smoke facilitating the establishment of pathogen colonization by impacting other aspects of bacterial-host interactions independent of nasal microbiota composition and compro- mised colonization resistance.resultscigarette smoke exposure does not alter nasal pneumococcal colonization in mice.

to investigate the impact of cigarette smoke exposure on the composition of the nasal microbiota following established nasal pneumococcal colonization mice were exposed to cigarette smoke for 1 week nasally inoculated with a high dose 107 cfu of s. pneumoniae and euthanized at a day 3 timefig 3 pneumococcal acquisition does not perturb the nasal microbiota in cigarette smoke-exposed mice.

it could be that cigarette smoke exposure impacts other aspects of bacterial-host interactions such as increased s. pneumoniae adhesion to host cells and an attenuated inflammatory response to s. pneumoniae to promote pneu- mococcal colonization   .although our data suggest that cigarette smoke exposure did not compromise the ability of the microbiota to resist initial nasal pneumococcal acquisition 12 h afterlow-dose nasal pneumococcal inoculation we observed significant differences in the microbiota composition following established nasal pneumococcal colonization.

our findings suggest that cigarette smoke exposure predis- poses to pneumococcal colonization independent of changes to the nasal microbi- ota and that microbiota dysbiosis observed in smokers may occur as a consequence of established pathogen colonization.keywords bacterial colonization cigarette smoke microbiota mouse modelstreptococcus pneumoniae upper respiratory tracthe microbiota plays an important role in food metabolism modulates the host immune system and offers protection from pathogen invasion termed coloniza- tion resistance .

in contrast the microbiota profile differed between room air- and cigarette smoke-exposed mice following established nasal pneumococcal colonization at day 3 specifically with an increase in the strepto-fig 4 established nasal pneumococcal colonization is associated with significant differences in the nasal microbiota composition of room air- and cigarette smoke-exposed mice.

since the bacterial burdens of room air- and smoke-exposed mice were similar our nasal pneumococcal colonization model is ideal for separating the impact of cigarette smoke exposure on the microbiota from that of in- creased pathogen abundance as reported in clinical observations of human smokers .cigarette smoke exposure alone does not significantly alter nasal microbiota composition.

an increased incidence of nasal pneumococcal colonization in turn contributes to the increased risk of invasive pneumococcal disease ipd observed in smokers and cigarette smoke-exposed mice .cigarette smoke exposure is an environmental stress that may perturb the balancedoctober 2017 volume 85 issue 10 e00434-17infection and immunity 1ecological composition of the urt microbiota promoting pathogen acquisition by decreasing colonization resistance.

these findings suggest that changes in the nasal microbiota observed in smoke-exposed mice occur as a consequence of established nasal pneu- mococcal colonization despite similar pneumococcal burdens in room air- and smoke- exposed mice.interestingly in addition to increased streptococcus abundance the combination of cigarette smoke exposure and established nasal pneumococcal colonization at day 3 significantly increased the relative abundance of several other genera containing potentially pathogenic bacteria including fusobacterium gemella and neisseria .

these data suggest that cigarette smoke exposure did not compromise the ability of the nasal microbiota to resist initial pneumococcal acquisition.the nasal microbiota is altered following established nasal pneumococcal colonization in cigarette smoke-exposed mice.

to investigate the impact of cigarette smoke exposure alone on nasal microbiota composition mice were exposed to cigarette smoke for 1 week and nasally inoculated with phosphate-buffered saline pbs to control for nasal pneumococcal colonization.

however although we did not observe microbiota dysbiosis in mice exposed to cigarette smoke in the absence of pneumococcal colonization it remains to be investigated whether func- tional changes in the microbiota contribute to the increased pathogen susceptibility of smokers.

our findings suggest that cigarette smoke exposure alone was not sufficient to alter the nasal microbiota composition and that the microbiota was only altered in smoke- exposed mice relative to that of room air-exposed controls as a consequence of established pneumococcal colonization.

our findings show that cigarette smoke exposure alone does not alter the nasal microbiota and suggest that clinical observations of nasal microbiota dysbiosis in smokers may occur as a consequence of established nasal pathogen colonization.previous studies have reported commensal bacteria such as corynebacterium andlactococcus to be negatively associated with urt pneumococcal colonization andfig 5 average taxonomic summaries of all groups analyzed for nasal microbiota composition.

mice exposed to room air or cigarette smoke for 1 week were either nasally inoculated with 104 cfu of s. pneumoniae and sacrificed 12 h after nasal pneumococcal colonization or nasally inoculated with 107 cfu of s. pneumoniae and sacrificed 3 days after nasal pneumococcal colonization.

