dysbiosis con- tributes to the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal carcinomas in the esophagus  and colon   and specific bacterial species are associated with the development of colorectal cancer fusobacteria nucleatum and escherichia coli   and gastric cancer h. pylori .the relationship between specific microbial pathogens and carcinogenesis has been the subject of extensive investigation and historically the majority of research has focused on individual pathogens such as h. pylori and their ability to initiate and perpetuate disease.

for example 1 study demonstrated thatins-gas mice harboring a complex microbiota developed gastric cancer within 7 months fol- lowing h. pylori infection whereas the development of gastric cancer was markedly prolonged in germ-free mice that were monocolonized by h. pylori .

one longi- tudinal study that supported the role of non-h. pylori species in the development of cancer assessed the effects of h. pylori eradication therapy on gastric cancer incidence over a 15-year time period .

these observations were studied in greater depth in an ins-gas h. pylori mono-associated germ-free mouse model where the addition of a restricted microflora accelerated the development of gastric cancer in conjunction with h. pylori .

however infection with h. pylori leads to achlorhydria of the stomach in a subset of colonized persons thus long- term h. pylori colonization and neutralization of the gastric environment may directly contrib- ute to alterations in the gastric microbiota.since the gastric microbiota is more austere in terms of microbial breadth and depth com- pared to the intestinal microbiota future studies should focus on assessing whether the com- position of the gastric microbiome in different anatomical regions of the stomach exerts differential effects on cancer risk.

in contrast among h. pylori-positive subjects h. pylori is the single most abundantbacterium present in the stomach and accounts for between 72 and 97 of all sequence reads  .these initial studies primarily focused on defining the composition of the gastric micro- biome stratified by h. pylori infection status but not disease diagnosis.

another study demonstrated that h. pylori per se is present within the intestine in a coccoid form and that the interaction between phagocytes and h. pylori within intestinal peyer's patches plays a critical role in modifying the intensity of h. pylori-induced gastritis .

two studies have shown that preco- lonization with intestinal helicobacters h. bilis h. hepaticus and h. muridarum can either increase or decrease the severity of gastric inflammation induced by h. pylori by altering t- regulatory cell responses  .

pearlsthe gastric microbiome its interaction with helicobacter pylori and its potential role in the progression to stomach cancerjennifer m. noto1 richard m. peek jr.1231 division of gastroenterology department of medicine vanderbilt university medical center nashville tennessee united states of america 2 department of pathology microbiology and immunology vanderbilt university medical center nashville tennessee united states of america 3 department of cancer biology vanderbilt university medical center nashville tennessee united states of america open accesscitation noto jm peek rm jr. 2017 the gastric microbiome its interaction with helicobacter pylori and its potential role in the progression to stomach cancer.

despite only a 47 eradication rate for h. pylori there were similar reduc- tions in the incidence of gastric cancer among subjects who received antibiotics and were unsuccessfully eradicated compared to those who remained h. pylori-free .

however the most common type of integrated bacterial dna was not h. pylori but was instead pseudomonas .the effect of the gastric microbiota on h. pylori-induced gastric inflammation and cancer in rodentsthe ability to establish causality is greatly enhanced by carefully controlled and manipulatable animal model systems.

collec- tively these results suggest that non-h. pylori bacteria can colonize the stomach and may rep- resent an additional modifier of gastric cancer risk particularly among h. pylori-infected individuals.in addition to the stomach bacteria within other microbial niches may exert a role in mod- ulating h. pylori-induced gastric inflammatory responses.

although great advances have been made in understanding the complex interplay between the gastric microbiota and h. pylori in the development of gastric inflammation and cancer detailed studies are still needed in well-defined human populations to compare differences in the microbiota of h. pylori-infected persons with and without neoplastic lesions.

however although h. pylori is the most common bacterial infection worldwide and colonizes greater than 50 of the global population only 1-3 of infected individuals ever develop gastric cancer.drivers of susceptibility to gastric carcinogenesis include h. pylori strain-specific virulence determinants host constituents and environmental factors.

following infection with h. pylori proteobacteria and specifically h. pylori dominate the gastric microbiota.

