the retraction pocket does not allow keratinous debris to migrate outward leading to cholesteatoma.10 in inactive com there is no activetable i.demographic and clinical characteristics of the participants.normal middle earsn 5 67com without active infection dry earn 5 44com with active infection wet earn 5 44com 5 chronic otitis media.inflammation or suppuration from the middle ear this type of com is therefore termed dry.

its aim was to profile and compare the middle ear microbiomes of human subjects with and without dry or wet com.materials and methodssubjectsall consecutive adult or pediatric patients undergoing tympanoplasty surgery for wet or dry com or ear surgery for conditions other than otitis media cochlear implantation for deafness stapes surgery for otosclerosis tympanoplasty for middle ear malformation and facial nerve decompression for bell's palsy between january 2014 and march 2015 were recruited prospectively into this study table i supporting appendix s1.

the microbiota in the nme dry com and wet com were subjected to principal coordinates analysis pcoa with the morisita similarity index using vegan package on r platform.statistical analysisthe microbiota of the various diagnostic groups were sub- jected to permutational multivariate analysis of variance per- manova using past 3.0 software.18results16s rrna analysis of the middle earsof the 155 middle ear samples no otus were detected in one sample which was therefore eliminated from the study.

a total of 136 genera were represented in the normal middle ear.microbiomes of the middle ears with dry comseven phyla were represented.

open circle 5 patients below the age of 9 years with normal middle ears filled circle 5 adult patients with normal middle ears 1 5 patients with dry com without cholesteatoma open diamond 5 patients with dry com with cholesteatoma x 5 patients with wet com without cholestea- toma open square 5 patients with wet com with cholesteatoma.

recent studies also revealed that the majority of bacteria isolated from the eac of healthy individuals were coagulase-negative staphylococcus species 63-832324 and corynebacterium diphtheriae 19-32. coagulase- negative staphylococci and corynebacterium diphtheriae are generally regarded as commensal eac microorganisms that may contribute to or even cause pathology when pre- sent at nonindigenous sites such as the middle ear.25microbiomes of the middle ear with com with active inflammationpatients with wet com and active inflammation had lower incidences of proteobacteria phylum bacteriaand higher incidences of firmicutes phylum bacteria than the nme participants.

..- ---- ' ... .. oyrhdee'.rnatoedit or -in -chief alexander chiu mdmust-have timely information that otolaryngologist head and neck surgeons can use in daily practice.enttoday.orgwileythe laryngoscopevc 2017 the american laryngological rhinological and otological society inc.microbiomes of the normal middle ear and ears with chronic otitis mediashujiro b. minami md hideki mutai phd tomoko suzuki arata horii md naoki oishi md koichiro wasano md motoyasu katsura md fujinobu tanaka md tetsuya takiguchi md masato fujii md kimitaka kaga mdintroductionthe human body is colonized by a wide variety of microorganisms.12 microbiologists initially used culture media to grow and characterize the bacterial species that colonize the human body until it was realized that most of these microorganisms cannot be grown underfrom the national hospital organization tokyo medical center national institute of sensory organs s.b.m.

in active com active inflammation in the middle ear results in a muco- purulent discharge that is described as wet.

a better understanding of the microbiology of this disease will help the clinician design the most efficient treatment plan.the microbiomes in otitis media with effusion inchildren have been investigated.14-16 however the microbiomes of the normal middle ear nme and com have not been explored to date.

com without cholesteatoma was diagnosed when chronic perforation of the tympanic membrane was observed on otoscopic examination or middle ear atelectasis was detected on high-resolution computed tomographic scanning.

all study procedures were approved by the ethics review committee of national tokyo medical center and the collaborating institutes and were performed only afterwritten informed consent was obtained from the adult individu- al or the child's parents.16s rrna sequencing and analysissterile swabs catch-all sample collection swab epi- centre wi usa were used to collect samples from the middle ear mucosa of patients after tympanomeatal flap elevation during surgery.

particular care was taken not to touch regions other than the middle ear mucosa e.g.

one of the concerns regarding the profiling of the bacterial composition in the middle ear is that the normal tympanic cavity is presumed to harbor no or few bacteria.

one normal middle ear sam- ple showed an insufficient number of data reads fewer than 50 after subtracting the otus of the negative con- trols and was therefore excluded from further analysis.

thus in total 272 otus were assigned in the bacterial composition in 152 middle ears.

