a number of donors from different locations of zebrafish gut and faeces after ingesting 108 cfud fish donors p  .05 vs. foregut p  .05 vs. midgut b number of cultivable transconjugants from different locations of zebrafish gut and faeces after ingesting 108 cfud fish donors p  .05 vs. foregut p  .05 vs. midgut c relative abundance of cat gene from different locations of zebrafish gut and faeces after ingesting 108 cfud fish donors p  .05 vs. foregut p  .05 vs. midgut p  .05 vs. hindgut d relative abundance of trag gene from different locations of zebrafish gut and faeces after ingesting 108 cfud fish donors p  .05 vs.foregutp  .05 vs. midgut p  .05 vs. hindgutof these still remained higher than donors indicating that transconju- gants did not completely decrease.

finally in the descent phase despite the decline of transconjugants in the gut the quantitya 109108b109108107107106106105105c10410foregutmidguthindgutfaeces different regions of gut and faecesd10425foregutmidguthindgutfaeces different regions of gut and faeces8640.30.20.10.0rise phase plateau descent phase    20152.01.51.00.50.0foregutmidguthindgutfaeces different regions of gut and faecesforegutmidguthindgutfaeces different regions of gut and faecesfi gu re 2 spatial distribution of donors cultivable transconjugants and marker genes from different gut regions and faeces in the identified phases from this work.

a the mrna expression levels of the trbbp gene from different parts of zebrafish gut in different phases after ingesting 108 cfud fish donors p  .05 vs.foregut p  .05 vs. midgut b the mrna expression levels of trfap gene from different parts of zebrafish gut in different phages after ingesting 108 cfud fish donors p  .05 vs.foregut p  .05 vs. midgut5326 fu et al.

the biggest challenge in researching args transfer in fish guts is to identify bacterial composition and abundance of the recipi- ents.antibiotic resistance gene transfer between bacteria via conjugal transferable plasmids such as the rp4 plasmid is one of the most important mechanisms of horizontal gene transfer which commonly occurs by cell-to-cell conjunction massoudieh mathew lambertini nelson  ginn 2007. rp4 which is indistinguishable from rk2 is a promiscuous plasmid in the incpa group.

the antibiotic genes encoded on the rp4 plasmid can be transferred between a variety of bacteria through conjugation in solid and liquid phases thorsted shah macartney kostelidou  thomas 1996. in this study we developed rp4 and rk2 plasmid-mediated arg transfer models in zebrafish guts to investigate the spread of args mediated by conju- gal transferable plasmids and to further confirm the hypothesis that the fish gut would be a suitable environment for conjugal gene transfer including those encoding antibiotic resistance.

during the plateau phase the trag gene far exceeded the cat gene with the highest ratio in the hindgut at 16 followed by the foregut 2 and then the midgut 1. in the descent phase the trag gene declined to levels comparable with the cat gene.

to elucidate the antibiotic-resistant transfer dynamics in the different intestinal tracts of the zebrafish gut we detected arbs and args with differential abundances in different parts of the gut and we identified distinct phases of colonization of the gut associated with the beginning and cessation of feeding with donor bacteria.

however the ratio of trag gene to cat gene is nearly 11 atinitial the increasing gap between the two genes indicated that plas- mid transfer and the potential for associated transfer of args in the uncultivable population.

quantitative real-time pcr qpcrq-pcr was used to quantify the cat gene chloramphenicol-resistant gene carried by donors calhoun  swartz 2006 the typical trag gene on the rp4 plasmid carried by both cultivable and uncultivable bacteria qiu et al.

finally the mrna expression level of the mating pair formation mpf gene trbbp and the dna transfer and replication dtr gene trfap were quantified using corresponding primer pairs qiu et al.

q-pcr results showed that in the rise phase the trag gene prevalence increased more quickly than that of the cat gene which suggested that cell-to-cell conjugal transfer in the intestinal flora had occurred.

expression levels of conjugation regulatory genes in gut at different phaseswe detected the mrna expression levels of conjugation regulation genes to confirm the region of gut where conjugal transfer occurred most active.

these results showed that the formation of mat- ing pairs was most frequent in the hindgut during the plateau phase and corroborated previously aforementioned results figure 2.the trfap gene controls the rp4 transfer and replication and this displayed a similar trend to the trbbp gene figure 3b.

2005. evidence of vancomycin resistance gene transfer between enterococci of human origin in the gut of mice harbouring human microbiota.

2015. the animal gut as a melting pot for hor- izontal gene transfer.

