Mosapride did not improve hepatic and intestinal damages and ileal expressions of occludin and ZO-1.Conclusions Mosapride significantly increases intestinal motility in cirrhotic rats thus to recover the disordered intestinal microbiota finally resulting in decreased plasma endotoxin and BT.Keywords Mosapride  Liver cirrhosis  Bacterial translocation  Intestinal microbiota  Enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensusAbbreviationsSBPSpontaneous bacterial peritonitis BTBacterial translocationMLNsMesenteric lymph nodesIBOIntestinal bacterial overgrowth TJTight junctionZO-1Zonula occluden-1 5-HT4 5-HydroxytryptaineNASHNonalcoholic steatohepatitis CCl4Carbon tetrachlorideMDAMalondialdehyde ITRIntestinal transit rateERICEnterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensusIntroductionPatients with cirrhosis especially those with ascites in the advanced stage have an increased susceptibility to endo- toxemia spontaneous bacterial peritonitis SBP and other bacterial infections .

There were no differences in the villi height as well as in the mucosa and intestinal wall thickness between the model group and mosapride-treated group.was observed in the MDA level between the model group and mosapride-treated group 1.94 - 0.23 nmolmg protein vs.1.83 - 0.31 nmolmg protein P0.05 Fig.

The portal pressure liver and intestinal damage plasma endotoxin BT and intestinal transit rate ITR of cirrhotic rats were determined.

Cirrhotic rats with BT displayed increased intestinal permeability which may be caused by intestinal mucosal peroxidation and structural changes  .

Furthermore we have evalu- ated the alterations of the genomic fingerprints of intestinal microbiota in cirrhotic rats and discover that the disordered intestinal microbiota could be improved by mosapride.To date several strategies have been tested for the pre- vention and treatment of BT.

b Quantitative morphometry of intestinal mucosal injury including the villi height and width the thickness of the mucosa and intestinal wall.

These data suggested that the prolonged intestinal motility may be responsible for the increased endotoxin and BT.We evaluated the alterations of intestinal microbiota community in cirrhotic rats by ERIC-PCR.

We consider that the action of mosapride to recover the disordered intestinal microbiota may be attributed to the increased gut motility since a significant and positive correlation between Shannon's index H0 and ITR was detected.Dysfunction of the intestinal epithelial barrier is another important mechanism contributing to the translocation of bacteria and endotoxin.

This action of mosapride may be attributed to the increased intestinal motility which in turn improves the disordered intestinal microbiota.

Altered intestinal tight junctions' expression in patients with liver cir- rhosis a pathogenetic mechanism of intestinal hyperpermeability.

