A more recent article utilizing DNA-based sequencing reported thatonly 4 of 11 rhesusTABLE 3 The reproductive success of female rhesus monkeys was not affected by high Nugent scores low FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratios or the low abundance of Lactobacilli in the lower reproductive tractaTotal number of infants birthed by 10 years of age provided a measure of fecundity.bNumber of mating sessions with a breeder male needed to conceive was used as an index of fertility.cReproductive histories of 15 females in Study 1 were compared 7 Low and 8 High Nugent scores and for all 8 females in Study 2 4 Low and 4 High FB ratios and similarly 4 with Lower and 4 Higher relative Lactobacilli abundance.dCategorization of the FirmicutesBacteroidetesratio and Lactobacilli was done with the same monkeys but the ranking resulted in two being assigned todifferent subgroups.macaques had Lactobacillus sequences Spear et al.

Received 6 February 2017  Revised 15 June 2017  Accepted 10 August 2017 DOI 10.1002ajp.22691RESEARCH ARTICLE Low Lactobacilli abundance and polymicrobial diversity in the lower reproductive tract of female rhesus monkeys do not compromise their reproductive successWellington Z. Amaral1 Gabriele R. Lubach1 Amita Kapoor2Alexandra Proctor3 Gregory J. Phillips3 Mark Lyte3 Christopher L. Coe11 Harlow Center for Biological Psychology University of Wisconsin Madison Wisconsin2 Wisconsin National Primate Research Center Madison Wisconsin3 College of Veterinary Medicine Iowa State University Ames IowaCorrespondenceChristopher Coe PhD Harlow Center for Biological Psychology University of Wisconsin-Madison WI 53715.Email Funding informationNational Institute of Mental HealthGrant number R33 MH104198 WNPRC Grant number P510D011106 INTRODUCTION All surfaces of the body are colonized with bacteria and it has become increasingly clear that this hostmicrobial relationship is critical for health while dysbiosis or an abnormal community composition is often associated with disease Cho  Blaser Most research has focused on the gut microbiota because of its particularly highabundance and significance for host digestion and metabolism.

Yildirim S. Yeoman C. J. Janga S. C. Thomas S. M. Ho M. Leigh S. R. ... Stumpf R. M. 2014.

Journal of Medical Primatology 382 125-136.Zozoya M. Ferris M. J. Siren J. D. Lillis R. Myers L. Nsuami J.

Reproductive successThe potential influence of elevated Nugent scores the Firmicutes Bacteroidetes ratio and a low Lactobacilli abundance on reproductive success was assessed by examining the number of pregnancies andFIGURE 2 Phlyum level analysis of the vaginal microbiota in eight female rhesus monkeys focusing on the FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio.a The FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratios were relatively low compared to women but distinguishable individual variation was evident when a median split was used to categorize females with Lower or Higher ratios 3.4 vs. 3.5. b Ratios indicative of relatively more Firmicutes were significantly correlated with more alpha diversity p  0.03 richness of the microbiome.

A longitudinal and prospective assessment is still warranted to verify that there is no influence of the vaginal microbiota on reproductive success.In sum the current research confirms that female monkeys have a more heterogeneous microbial community in their lower reproductive tract than typically seen in women.

a Lactobacilli were not predominant ranging from 3-17 and 11 other taxa were present at abundances above 1. b Further categorization on the basis of relative abundance of Lactobacilli 4.9 or 5 indicated only a non- significant trend for less alpha diversity in the females with the most Lactobacilli.

Bioinformatics 262 266-267.Caporaso J. G. Kuczynski J. Stombaugh J. Bittinger K. Bushman F. D. Costello E. K. .. .

Journal of Reproductive Immunology 87 82-89.Kaul R. Nagelkerke N. J. Kimani J. Ngugi E.  Bwayo J. J.

Sexually Trans- mitted Disease 3411 864-869.Kyongo J. K. Jespers V. Goovaerts O. Michiels J. Menten J. FichorovaR.

