the range of colony forming units cfu's milliliter of untreated bacteria at 6 hours exposure time from two experiments establishes a baseline for uninhibited no sulfite exposure growth.non-viable within 4 hours of exposure at concentrations ranging between 1000 -3780ppm dependent on species tested .

od600 read- ings were recorded every hour from individual replicate wells in 96-well test plates.determination of bacterial growth cfumlserial dilutions or undiluted samples and drop plate counts were performed to determine the viability of bacteria between 1-6 hours of exposure time for all samples in preservative and at time 0 and 6 hours for controls.

streptococcus thermophilus also stopped increasing in number within two hours of exposure at concentrations between 250-500ppm however the bacteria were still viable in all concentrations of sodium sulfite tested up to 6 hours exposure time.

lactobacillus plantarum was found to be non-viable by 4 hours exposure at 2 1000ppm.sodium bisulfite was bactericidal to s. thermophilus at 6 hours exposure and 2 1000 ppm.results shown in .discussionin the most recent evaluation of sulfite consumption by the world health organization it was concluded that in many countries a significant portion of the population regularly exceeds the daily amounts of sulfites considered 'safe in their diets .

further testing using serial dilution and drop plates identified bactericidal effects in concentrations ranging between 1000-3780 ppm on all the lactobacillus species by 4 hours of exposure and bactericidal effects on s. thermophilus in 2000ppm nahso3 after 6 hours of exposure.permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the originalauthor and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data are within the paper and its supporting informationfiles.funding this research was supported by funds from the hawaii idea network of biomedical research excellence inbre-iii grant program p20 gm103466 national institute of general medical sciences at the national institutes of health.

plates were observed for an additional 24 hours to look for any late growth.some random low level growth less than 10 cellsml after 48 hours incubation was observed 2-3 times throughout all experiments but it was inconsistent in relation to preservative being tested or incubation time.

addi- tionally ingestion of lactic acid bacteria lab has been shown to positively impact the com- mensal gut residents by altering metabolic outputs of carbohydrate consumption while negatively affecting potential pathogens by decreasing the ph production of biofilms that encourage the growth of commensals and the production of antimicrobials like bacteriocins and hydrogen peroxide .when presented with this information it seems pertinent to ascertain the impact that expo- sure to food preservatives including sulfites may have on the gut and mouth microbiota.experiments were designed to establish a basic understanding of the effects of two types of sul- fite preservatives at concentrations deemed gras by the fda on the growth of four benefi- cial gut microbes.methods  materialsbacteria culturesbacterial cultures were obtained from microbiologics in the form of lyfo disk lyophilized bacteria pellet.

this suggests that similar to antibiotics the use of sulfites in food may promote the growth of these organisms while limiting the growth of many beneficial sulfite sensitive bacteria.

depending on the composition of meals food spends 2-6 hours being absorbed in the small intestine and 10-59 hours in the colon before elimination as feces -.

results of lactobacillus species casei plantarum rhamnosus and streptococcus thermophilus exposed to 9 concentrations 10-3780 ppm of na2so3 over 6 hours as compared to growth in media with no preservative np is illustrated here.

average total absorbance for hours 0 1 2 3 4 5 and 6 hours following treatment and concentration ofpreservative 0 10 50 100 250 500 1000 2000 and 3780 ppm were assessed by a two-way anova followed by post-hoc analysis with bonferroni multi-comparison test.

results of lactobacillus species casei plantarum rhamnosus and streptococcus thermophilus exposed to 8 concentrations 10- 2000 ppm of nahso3 over 6 hours as compared to growth in media with no preservative np is illustrated here.

this is supported by the drop platedata from the same experiments which showed continued growth of bacteria at 6 hours.

within 2 hours of sulfite exposure all bacteria types showed either a decrease or no increase in cell numbers in concentrations ofeffects of sodium bisulfite on bacterial growth measured as od600.

these results indicate a bacteriostatic effect from sodium sulfite on all bacteria within two hours of exposure and a bactericidal effect on all the lactobacillus species by 4 hours of exposure.sodium bisulfite.

