the maximum bacteriocin activity of the mg7284pbu6 transformant was achieved at the end of exponential phase while its activity against indicator strain listeria monocytogenes atcc 19111 was lower after 24 h of growth .purified lactolisterin bu was active against various gram-positive bacteria with the mics being in the micromolar range.

although lactolisterin bu showed some characteristics of class iia bacteriocins antilisterial activity and the absence of unusual amino acids it does not possess the highly conserved motif t-g-n-g-vl generally found in pediocin-like bacteriocins with antilisterial activity and so cannot be classified as a class iia bacteriocin .

the antilisterial activity of lactolisterin bu is not mediated by interaction with man-pts like that of other class ii bacteriocins as it showed antimicrobial activity against mutant b464 .biochemical characterization showed that lactolisterin bu like other bacteriocins is sensitive to proteolytic enzymes is relatively thermostable and is produced at maxi- mum levels in early stationary phase .

diacetylactis bgbu1-4 produces a novel bacteriocin lactolisterin bu with strong antimicrobial activity against many species of gram-positive bacteria including important food spoilage and foodborne pathogens such as listeria monocytogenes staphylococcus aureus bacillus spp.

diacetylactis bgbu1-4 expresses strong antimicrobial activity against food spoilage and foodborne pathogens such as listeria monocytogenes staphy- lococcus aureus bacillus spp.

in addition some bacteriocins have broader inhibitory spectra and show activity against medically important pathogens and food spoilage bacteria .

the bacterio- cins produced by lab have been intensively explored from a fundamental perspective for their potential applications as food preservatives and more recently in veterinary and human medicine as possible alternatives to antibiotics.the positive properties of bacteriocins that make them suitable for application in the food industry are their lack of activity against and toxicity for eukaryotic cells and their sensitivity to digestive proteases.

furthermore bacteriocins are relatively thermostable and some of them can retain antimicrobial activity following pasteurization or sterilization.

some bacteriocins also have a broad spectrum of antimicrobial activity so they can be used in foods as an effective method to extend the shelf life and to control foodborne pathogens such as staphylococcus aureus and listeria monocytogenes  .

the indigenous lab isolated from white brined cheeses from serbia are good candidates for screening for antimicrobial substances as they are well adapted to the microbial environments in cheese and could therefore be the source of novel properties .aureocins are a new group of leaderless class ii bacteriocins with a broad spectrum of activity that were first isolated from staphylococcus aureus.

the spectrum of activity of l. lactis subsp.

standard biochemical methods confirmed the proteinaceous nature of the antimicrobial agent as it was found to be sensitive to proteinase k and pronase e. in addition it was active against b464 a mannose phosphotransferase man-pts deletion mutant derivative of il1403  suggesting that man-pts is not a receptor for its antilisterial activity.

it was interesting to note that three types of plasmid-cured derivatives which differed in their spectra of activity and the sizes of their inhibition zones in agar well diffusion assays were obtained.

only plasmids of the selected cured derivatives are shown and were taken from different positions of the gel.did not show antimicrobial activity against bgmn1-596 or atcc 19111 and were sensitive to the bgbu1-4 parental strain and the derivative bgbu1-42.

it is possible to conclude that there is a direct correlation between the presence and absence of plasmid pbu6 and bacteriocin activity and most likely that the operon for the synthesis of the second bacteriocin is located on plasmid pbu12.purification and identification of the bacteriocins.

