s. pneumoniae is mostly found in the throat and only occasionally in the nose but col- onization by s. pneumoniae negatively correlates with nasal s. aureus104105.

this interference may be based on the release of h2o2 a typical metabolite producedby s. pneumoniae that leads to the generation of dna-damaging radicals which activate prophages contained in the genomes of s. aureus strains thus leading to the lysis of s. aureus cells106107 fig.

it will be important to investigate how the ability of other nasal commensals to produce antimicrobial molecules or to compete for nutrients or epithelial adhesion sites may contribute to s. aureus col- onization resistance and whether the absence of such mechanisms in 30 of the human population may promote permanent s. aureus carriage.previous findings on mechanisms that regulate the persistence of s. aureus in the nasal microbiota revealed several potential targets for new decolonization agents for example adhesion factors methionine biosynthesis enzymes defensin or lysozyme resistance mechanisms or anti-s. aureus compounds for example lugdunin.

nature 465 346-349 2010. this article describes that s. epidermidis strains that produce the protease esp inhibit s. aureus nasal colonization.sugimoto s. et al.

9 eaah4680 2017.this article describes how bacteriocin-producing commensals interfere with s. aureus skin colonization in patients with atopic dermatitis.bennallack p. r. burt s. r. heder m. j. robison r. a.  griffitts j. s. characterization of a novel plasmid-borne thiopeptide gene cluster instaphylococcus epidermidis strain 115. j. bacteriol.196 4344-4350 2014.li y. m. milne j. c. madison l. l. kolter r.  walsh c. t. from peptide precursors to oxazole and thiazole-containing peptide antibiotics microcin b17 synthase.

in addition to s. aureus the nose harbours other pathogens such as staphylococcus epidermidis a frequent cause of opportunistic infections that arise when artificial devices are implanted and haemophilus influenzae a pathogen that can cause pneumonia or meningitis11.in recent years experimental set-ups for in vitro and in vivo simulations of s. aureus colonization were developed and are now available box 1. microbiomenature reviews  microbiologyvolume 15  november 2017  675reviews methicillin-resistants.

s. aureus was found in several csts albeit much less regularly than in cst1.676  november 2017  volume 15reviews box 1  model systems for studying s. aureus nasal colonizationin vitro growth media.

non-human primates such as rhesus macaques were proposed as an autologous model for studying s. aureus nasal colonization138 because macaques are natural hosts of s. aureus and carry host-specific lineages.

can modulate the adhesive capacities of s. aureus and impede its colonization of the nasal epithelium indicated by the dark grey arrows506465.with an altered s. aureus colonization risk which could be higher or lower depending on the target protein and on the type of polymorphism36.

isolates promotes the aggregation of s. aureus which was assumed to affect s. aureus nasal colonization50.

in the columnar ciliated epithelium found in the posterior nasal cavity right panel s. aureus binds to scavenger receptor class f member 1 srec1 through the wall teichoic acid wta polymers present on its the cell surface.most gram-positive bacteria5354 mediates the binding of s. aureus to nasal epithelial cells and is important for nasal colonization475155.

it is not known whether srec1 or other epithelial receptors interact with cwgs of other nasal bacteria and whether their affinity for different nasal bacterial species varies.interactions between wta and srec1 are thought to be important for interactions with non-keratinized cells in deeper areas of the nose4346 however adhe- sion of s. aureus to anterior nasal surfaces where the majority of s. aureus cells have been identified so far5758 seems to be mainly mediated by the binding of cellcavity are serine-aspartate repeat-containing protein d sdrd which binds to epithelial desmoglein 1 ref.

s. epidermidis and s. lugdunensis produce sasg and isda homologues known as aap and isdj respectively6869 but potential roles for these proteins in nasal colonization remain unclear.

aureus and some cons including s. lugdunensis staphylococcus intermedius and staphylococcus sapro- phyticus but not s. epidermidis are able to take up andcific mechanisms to cope with this host defence strategy known as 'nutritional immunity' box 2.competition by antibiosis.

in a systematic screening of nasal strains s. epidermidis isolates were found to be the mosthost lactoferrinfefebacterial siderophorefehost lipocalinfefrequent producers of antimicrobials whereas this prop- erty was only rarely found in s. aureus87.

