here we investigated specifically whether supplementing diets with gp could 1 reduce the establishment of a. suum in young growing pigs and 2 modulate acquisition of immune responses and gut microbiota composi- tion during the establishment of the infection.resultsanthelmintic activity of grape pomace against ascaris suum in vitro andin vivowe have previously observed that purified pac molecules have direct anthelmintic effects in vitro against a. suum larvae in a polymerisation-dependent manner .

to further investigate the role of dietary gp in mucosal eosinophilia during a. suum infection local expression levels of genes encoding chemokines involved specifically in granulocyte che- motaxis and function were investigated in a. suum-infected pigs.

b inhibition of migration of ascaris suum larvae after 24 hours incubation in acetone-water extract of gp or the same extract pre-incubated with jejunal digesta from pigs.gp in the diet of pigs under these experimental conditions does not appear to have direct anthel- mintic activity against a. suum larvae in the small intestine.effect of dietary grape pomace on parasite-specific antibody responseswe next assessed whether dietary gp may enhance acquisition of parasite-specific immune function which may be important for long-term protective immunity and resistance to re- infection.

eosinophil numbers were not increased in uninfected pigs supplemented with gp indicating that gp synergised with a. suum infection to regulate eosinophil numbers.

in our current study we found that whilst establishment of a. suum was not impacted by dietary gp modulation in the initiation of cellular immune responses tosuum infection were observed.a previous study with growing pigs has shown that inclusion of grape meal extract poly- phenol content of 8.5 at 1 of dietary intake was sufficient to induce changes in gut bacterial genus operational taxonomic units otus in the proximal colon of pigs infected or not with ascaris suum and either fed a con- trol diet or a diet supplemented with 5 grape pomace gp.

whilst this may reduce the ability of gp to mediate direct anthelmintic effects the ability of polyphenols to interact with host cells is speculated to impart their putative immuno- modulatory and anti-inflammatory properties  .consequently whilst this level of dietary gp did not appear to be sufficient to directlyreduce establishment of a. suum in this infection model the strong mucosal immune responses induced at this early time-point day 14 p.i.

principal coordinates analysis pcoa plots based on generalized unifrac distance matrices showing a the effect of diet on gm composition of non-infected pigs p0.05 by manova b lack of the diet effect on gm composition of a. suum-infected pigs p  0.798 by manova c the effect of a. suum infection on the gm composition of pigs fed the basal diet p0.01 by manova d lack of the infection effect on gm composition of pigs feed with the gp-supplemented diet p  0.437 by manova.the dominant genus in all pigs was prevotella accounting for 30 of bacterial population in the control animals.

overall our results suggest a significant influence of dietary polyphenols on local mucosal responses to a. suum.whilst the total concentrations of scfa in the colon were not affected by either a. suum infection or gp-supplementation both factors selectively regulated the concentrations of indi- vidual scfa.

who reported that a. suum infection increased butyrate and propionate levels in the colon of pigs with a chronic a. suum infection.

pigs were fed either a basal diet or the same diet supplemented with grape pomace gp an industrial by-product rich in polyphenols such as oligomeric proanthocyanidins.half of the animals in each group were then inoculated with a. suum for 14 days to assess parasite establishment acquisition of local and systemic immune responses and effects on the gut microbiome.

to assess in vitro anthelmintic activity of the gp against a. suum larvae we prepared an acetonewater extract which contained around 10 pac vv.

consistent with our previous studies using pac-rich extracts from a range of plants  acetone-water extracts prepared from gp showed dose-dependent in vitro anthelmintic activity against a. suum l3.

therefore we next assessed the effect of dietary gp on local cellular responses to a. suum larvae and mucosal architecture in the small intestine.

however we did not observe a down-regulation of typical th1-type genes such as ifng in infected pigs fed gp and further experiments are clearly necessary to unravel these mechanisms.it is also interesting to note that gene expression of ccl26 which encodes the main chemo- kine involved in eosinophil chemotaxis was significantly down-regulated in the jejunal mucosa in a. suum-infected pigs fed the gp-enriched diet.

the boosting of the eosinophil-response by dietary gp is notable as it has been observed that eosinophilia is a key mechanism of acquired immunity against a. suum that eventually results in pre-hepatic immunity following re-infec- tion .

