on the other hand while probiotics might potentially represent a significant advance specific roles of microbiota in the pathophysiology of mood disor- ders still need further investigation along with interven- tion studies.keywords bipolar disorder major depression disorder microbiome microbiota mood disorders probiotics.introductionmajor depressive disorder mdd and bipolar disor- der bd are mood disorders and are among the leading causes of burden and disability worldwide collins et al.

2013.among the multiple putative effects of microbiota in the body several studies have shown an association between gut microbiota and brain development and behavior cryan and o'mahony 2011 diaz heijtz et al.

2014. this evidence supports the gut microbiota contribution to a kind of developmental programming in a 'window of vulnerability' within which the gut microbiota can influence physiological functions witha.c.

the perinatal period appears to be critical for this type of developmental programming due to the ability of the gut microbiota to modulate some systems such as the hpa axis which occur after germ-free mice are exposed to gut microbiota in early postnatal development stage i.e.

microbiota and probiotics in mood disordersboth observational and experimental evidence indicates that microbiota can modulate the immune response changing the clinical expression of the disease sever- ance et al.

2015.microbiota and mood disordersalthough discussions on the hypothesis of a microbiome influence in the development of mood disorders in the last few years have advanced limited experimental studies that directly address this issue can be found.animal studiesone possible strategy to study the link between mood and microbiota in animals is the induction of depressive- like behaviors to observe the effects on microbiota.

2014. the association between the depressive symp- toms and gut microbiota composition was also shown in elderly population with loss of community-associated microbiota being associated with several other markers of health deterioration noto et al.

microbiota and probiotics in mood disordersfigure 1 schematic representation of gut-brain axis and microbiota in mood disorders.chemicals e.g.

an imbalance in this symbiotic relationship between the host and intestinal microbiota may be associated with increased diseases littman and pamer 2011.murine studies led to the observation that intestinal microbiota is necessary for the normal galt maturationincluding peyer's patches plasters crypt and isolated lymphoid follicles ilfs gordon et al.

microbiota and probiotics in mood disordersimplications for clinical practice and a research agendaalthough mood disorders are associated with changes in microbiota very little is already known about how to extract any benefit from administration of probiotics.

moreover intra- and inter-individuals variation was very high on microbiota and it is possible to identify deviant colonization using sophisticated bio- informatics tools.a number of attempts to manipulate the microbiota have not produced identical results for every disease most probably because the most effective interventions are not in adulthood when the brain and the immuno- logical system are already mature ianiro et al.

microbiota and probiotics in mood disorders 11gut microbiota and behavior in balbc mice.

accumulating evidence implicates the involvement of the gut microbiota in processes relevant to etiopathology of central nervous system-based disor- ders.

the objective of this article was to critically evaluate the evidence supporting the link between gastrointes- tinal microbiota and mood disorders and to discuss the potential benefits of using probiotics in the treatment of mdd and bd.

microbiota and probiotics in mood disordersmood disorder pathophysiology.

