anti-il-6 treatment resulted in slightly enhanced numbers of animals with moribund symptoms suggesting that il-6 exerts an anti-inflammatory function during pulmonary m. catarrhalis infection .pulmonary infection with moraxella catarrhalis exacerbates hdm-induced aaito study the mechanisms of m. catarrhalis caused exacerbation of aai wt c57bl6 mice white bars were intranasally infected with m. catarrhalis after the second exposure with hdm and analyzed on day 23 as shown in .

although a link between infection with m. catarrhalis and exacerbation of asthma has been proposed no functional data exist to our knowledge indicating that this pathogen is causative for exacerbation of this disease.our aim was to investigate whether m. catarrhalis infection has the potential to exacerbate allergic airway inflammation aai and if yes to analyze the underlying pathomechanisms.

yet in the absence of il-17 andor tnf-a infection-triggered lung inflammation as well as exacerbation ofaai was very mild and resulted in accelerated clearance of patho- genic airway bacteria emphasizing the inflammation promoting role of these cytokines.resultscharacteristics of airway inflammation caused by m. catarrhalis infectionbefore investigating the consequences of bacterial airway infection on aai we established a murine infection model to first study the immune responses triggered by m. catarrhalis.

likewise neutralization of tnf-a which is also produced by epithelial cells upon m. catarrhalis infection figure s2 in supplementary material resulted in reduction of local and systemic il-1b il-6 and il-17 and subsequent protection against m. catarrhalis infection .

yet m. catarrhalis infection of hdm allergic il-17 ko mice still enhanced the frequency of pulmonaryifn-g and il-5il-13 secreting cd4 t cells  figures s5ab in supplementary material.taken together these findings show that il-17 essentially contributes to m. catarrhalis triggered exacerbation of aai.anti tnf-a treatment attenuating il-17-dependent exacerbation of infection-induced aaiit has been shown that neutrophil recruitment during inflam- mation is mediated by synergistic effects of il-17 and tnf-a in endothelial cells by enhancing the expression of p- and e-selectin .

likewise m. catarrhalis infection of hdm allergic mice did not lead to exacerbation of pulmonary inflammation in il-17 deficient mice.

catarrhalis airway infection and rigorously analyzed the mechanisms of pulmonary inflammation triggered exclusively by the pathogen or during developing or established aai against the house dust mite hdm allergen.we here show that airway infection with m. catarrhalis aug- ments the phenotype of aai mainly via tnf-a and t-cell derived il-17 but not il-6.

of note cellular infiltrates and cytokine responses measured at day 23 were significantly lower than during acute infection with m. catarrhalis.we then wondered whether the time of m. catarrhalis infec- tion prior to during or after complete hdm sensitization has an influence on exacerbation of aai.

as anti-il-6 treatment led to enhanced secretion of local andsystemic tnf-a with high susceptibility to m. catarrhalis infection we did not consider il-6 as appropriate target for treatment.the contradicting reports about efficiency and safety of tnf-a blockers in animal models and patients with severe asthma  prompted us to study the effect of tnf-a neutralization dur- ing pulmonary infection and exacerbation of aai.we found that neutralization of tnf-a prior to pulmonarym.

we found that airway infection of mice with m. catarrhalis triggers a strong inflammatory response with mas- sive neutrophilic infiltrates high amounts of il-6 and tnf-a and moderate levels of cd4 t-cell-derived ifn-g and il-17.

the amounts of il-6 and tnf-a in bal and serum of infected il-17 ko were diminished and mice did not succumb to m. catarrhalis infection wt animals .

while hdm expo- sure induced airway inflammation additional infection of hdm sensitized wt mice with m. catarrhalis led to hugely increased numbers of leukocytes in the balf mainly through infiltrating neutrophils eosinophils and lymphocytes .

similar to infection during or after hdm sen- sitization infection prior to allergen exposure triggered airway infiltrations of cd4 t cells secreting increased amounts of il-17 ifn-g and il-5 figure s4 in supplementary material.il-17 is a central mediator ofinfection-triggered exacerbation of aaisince il-17 has been reported to be associated with mucoepithe- lial infections and allergic responses  we next tested il-17 deficient mice for the development of hdm-allergic airway responses.

briefly hdm sensitized mice were treated only once with anti-tnf-a mab 4 h before intranasal infection with m. catarrhalis and analyzed atday 23 as depicted in .

we observed a similar cytokine response in m. catarrhalis infected wt but not il-17 ko mice which showed even increased resistance against infection.

