1. the atopic dermatitis scores of the 60 mgkg caps administration group were significantly lower than control group at 14 21 and 28 days.effect of caps administration on serum ige levelthe serum ige level of the 12 mgkg caps administration group was lower compared with that of the control group fig.

we divided them into three groups control caps administration 12 mgkg day caps administration 60 mgkgday.

the differences between the control and the caps administration groups were statistically significant by the steel test p0.05 p0.01.generally ad-like skin lesions are related to serum ige hyperproduction in the present study the serum ige levels of the caps administration groups were significantly decreased compare with those of the control group in a concentration-dependent manner fig.

in a previous study we confirmed that caps administration stimulates th-1 type cytokines in dcs through myd-88 depending on tlr4 signaling tlr4 signaling induces th-1 type cytokines such as ifn-g and il-12 we also confirmed that caps administration lowered il-4 transcription.

the differences between the control and the caps administration groups were statistically significant by the steel test p0.05.il-12p40 transcription levels in the spleen were increased by caps administration.

in a previous study we revealed that administration of polysaccharide from black currant r. nigrum has an effect on immunomodulation.

we revealed that caps administration improves atopic dermatitis symptoms.

we also found that caps administration suppresses ige hyperproduction and induces ifn-g gene transcription in the spleen.

finally we confirmed that caps administration suppresses mast cell migration to epidermal skin.

in this report we investigated whether caps administration has an effect on atopic dermatitis and ige hyperproduction.materials and methodssample preparationribes nigrum was purchased from central chemical co. ltd. tokyo japan.

the test samples were administered daily via oral administration.

dermatitis symptoms were evaluated by the clinical severity score at 0 7 14 21 and 28 days after the first administration of test samples.

the differences between the control and the caps administration groups were statistically significant by the steel test p0.05p0.01.histopathological studythe skins of the animals were fixed in 10 buffered formalin solution and decalcified in 10 formic acid.

p values less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant.resultseffects of caps administration on atopic dermatitisncnga mice with no superficial dermatitis male 7 weeks were used in this study.

1. the atopic dermatitis scores of the 12 mg kg caps administration group were significantly lower than those of the control group at 21 days and 28 days fig.

