all yeast recovered from the blood and organs of vehicle and 5 mgkg csf-treated mice contained wild-type sequences for fks1 and fks2 hot spots while yeast recovered from the organs of 20 mgkg csf-treated mice exhibited an fks2 amino acid substitution and .

in panels a and b 5 mgkg and 20 mgkg data are depicted in the left and right graphs respectively.high-dose 20 mgkg caspofungin resulted in significantly reduced gi burdens but drug levels within the gi tract were not maintained at a high level for a sufficiently long time potentially creating a niche to allow drug adaptation of c. glabrata for regrowth and priming cells for potential resistance acquisition.systemic dissemination from gi colonization upon immunosuppression.

with vehicle control pbs 5 mgkg csf or 20 mgkg csf as described in panel a. also shown are the median numbers of cfu identified from the blood and organs of mice that exhibited breakthrough.respectively .

mice treated with both nikkomycin 100 mgkg oral and high-dose caspofungin 20 mgkg i.p.

mice that were treated with high-dose caspofungin with or without nikkomycin yielded 33 39 mice and 30 310 mice organ dissemination rates respectively compared to the 70 observed in the vehicle control group  although these yeast contained the same fks mutations that were identified in the fecal matter .

the burdens of the0.5 and 5 mgkg groups were unchanged  and fks mutants fks2-s663p and fks2-p667t were recovered from only one mouse 10 in the 5 mgkg treatment group.

as expected treatment with high-dose 20 mgkg caspofungin caused greater drug penetration into the gi tract than that with the therapeutic dose 5 mgkg large intestine mean cmax 36.2 versus 3.8 ugml respectively small intestine mean cmax 22.2 versus 9.1 ugml respectively although the gi drug concentrations were significantly lower than the plasma levels .

from these data we conclude that daily administration offig 2 a single dose of 20 mgkg caspofungin causes greater drug penetration into the gi tract and further reduces gi yeast burdens than that of the therapeutic dose 5 mgkg.

of 5 mgkg or 20 mgkg caspofungin.

yeast were recovered from at least one organ in 70 60 and 30 of vehicle 5 mgkg csf-treated and 20 mgkg csf-treated micefig 3 echinocandin treatment alters breakthrough rates that are successfully achieved following dexamethasone immunosuppression.

fungal burden levels and resistance rates depended on levels of drug in the gi tract the lower therapeutic dose 5 mgkg of caspofungin had no effect on burden and resulted in low resistance rates while the high caspofungin dose 20 mgkg resulted in a reduction in burden levels but high resistance rates.

the gastrointestinal tract is a major source of echinocandin drug resistance in a murine model of candida glabrata colonization and systemic disseminationkelley r. healey yoji nagasaki matthew zimmerman milena kordalewska steven park yanan zhao david s. perlinpublic health research institute new jersey medical school rutgers biomedical and health sciences newark new jersey usaabstract candida species are a part of the human microbiome and can cause systemic infection upon immune suppression.

2008. the changing epidemiology of invasive candidiasis candida glabrata and candida krusei as the leading causes of candidemia in hematologic malignancy.

2005. prior antimicrobial therapy and risk for hospital-acquired candida glabrata and candida krusei fungemia a case-case-control study.

in an attempt to negate drug tolerance that is critical for resistance development we cotreated mice with daily caspofungin and the chitin synthase inhibitor nikkomycin z. the largest reduction 3 log in gi bur- dens was obtained within 3 to 5 days of 20 mgkg caspofungin plus nikkomycin treatment.

