photodynamic treat- ment pdt may represent an efficient treatment to eliminate these germs 5. recent studies show that photodynamic inactivation pdi may be a viable alternative since the action mode of photosensitizer ps over microbial cells is ma- rkedly different from the typical action of most antibiotic drugs 6.pdi is based on topic or systemic admi- nistration of a non-toxic ps followed by low dose irradiation of visible light with adequate wave length 7. this technique destroys target cells by means of oxidation that cause cellular lysis and inactivation of membrane proteins 8. in the presence of oxygen present in the cells activated ps may react with neighbor molecules by means of transfer of electrons or hydrogen producing free radicals reaction type i or trans- fer of energy to oxygen reaction type ii pro- ducing oxygen singlet.

e. coli species also showed sensitivity to treatment however with exponential reduction.discussionthis study showed that photodynamic inactivation associated to ps methylene blue was efficient to inactivate staphylococcus au- reus clostridium perfringens and e. coli obser- ved in fg severe necrotizing fasciitis involving several bacterial species that need new treat- ments to lower the high rates of morbidity and mortality 1-3.the use of these bacteria is in accordance of the fact that in fg there is multiple simulta- neous presence of aerobic and anaerobic micro- organisms we used a sample of each category a gram positive aerobic a gram negative aerobic and an anaerobic bacteria.

both ways cause cellular death 9 10. therefore in view of the potential of this technique to treat bacterial infections among other microorganisms the objective of this work was to inactivate prevalent bacteria in fg using pdi.among the most used photosensitizers ps in pdi some stand out natural occurring porphyrins particular protoporphyrin ix chloro- phylls and biocompatible ps that don't generate toxicity at dark 9. the most promising for human use for pdi are chlorines and phenothiazines they absorb light with high wave length with adequate penetration in live tissues with low toxicity.the use of pdi in medicine is becoming more relevant since it is a reality in the treatment of diseases such as cancer periodontitis dermato- logic diseases such as actinic keratosis and com- mon acne venereal diseases such as acuminate condyloma among others 11-13.most studies in urology using photodyna- mic therapy pdt are related to malign tumors such as bladder and prostate cancer 14 15 our study aims to investigate the role of pdt in trea- ting infectious diseases such as fournier's gangre- ne one of the most morbid diseases in urology.material and methodsbacterial linesit was used lines of escherichia coli cccd colecao de culturas cefar diagnostica staphylo- coccus aureus cccd s003 cefar diagnostica brasil and clostridium perfringens atcc13124 american type culture collection.

also it was evident that only light without the presence of ps was not able to promote microorganisms death.the association of red laser and methylene blue showed complete inactivation of s. aureus and c. perfrigens when light was applied for 5 mi- nutes in the presence of the ps even when these bacteria were cultured along with e. coli after 24 hours of incubation.

in thefigure 3 - mean cfuml of e. coli submitted to the following treatments saline as control l-p- laser and saline lp- photosensitizer l-p and laser and photosensitizer l p. tukey test p  0.05.group irradiated and with associated methylene blue it was observed complete bacterial reduc- tion regardless the increase of treatment time after 5 minutes all bacteria were inactivated.in relation to e. coli figure-3 shows ex- ponential regression of the group treated with laser and methylene blue.

photodynamic inactivation of staphylococcus aureus and escherichia coli biofilms by malachite green and phenothiazine dyes an in vitro study.

according to literature data some fac- tors may have influenced the non-complete eli- mination of bacteria such as structural difference of the wall of gram positive and gram negative bacteria the relative permeability of gram posi- tive membranes may be a facilitator of entrance of ps and the more complex external membrane of gram negative bacteria may work as a barrier to ps entrance.

antimicrobial photodynamic therapy photodynamic antimicrobial effects of malachite green on staphylococcus enterobacteriaceae and candida.

as the main results in the lf group there were no clostridium perfrin- gens and staphylococcus aureus cfus and there was a reduction of escherichia coli that was not observed in the other groups.published as ahead of print november 22 2017introductionfournier's gangrene fg is a polymi- crobial infection caused by several aerobic and anaerobic microorganisms that synergistically causes a necrotizing fasciitis involving geni- tals perineum and perianal region 1 2. the most common microorganisms of fg are gram positive aerobes in special staphylococcus au- reus staphylococcus epidermidis streptococ- cus viridans and streptococcus faecalis.

among gram negative aerobes it is observed the presence of escherichia coli klebsiella pneumoniae pseu- domonas aeruginosa and proteus mirabilis.

synergistically these bacteria act by different mechanisms and rapidly disseminates the infec- tious process 3.among microorganisms that cause fg the most frequent isolated aerobes are esche- richia coli klebsiella pneumonie and staphylo- coccus aureus and the most frequent anaerobes are bacteroides fragilis and clostridium species 4. aside from bacteria other microorganismssuch as fungus yeasts and virus may be present in fg and this fact is leading many researchers to search for alternative therapies to efficiently eliminate these pathogens.

culture media used included tryptic soy agar tsa oxoidr su- pplemented with defibrinated goat blood 5 for culture of s. aureus and c. perfringens and for e. coli it was used agar eosin methylene blue emb oxoidr.

protocol 16.preparation of bacterial samples and photosen- sitizationbacterial lines were incubated in tryp- tic soy broth culture media tsb oxoidr for 24 hours at 37oc escherichia coli and staphylococ- cus aureus in aerobic conditions and clostridium perfringens in anaerobic environment.

next from a suspension of 106 viable cellsml of esche- richia coli staphylococcus aureus and clostridium perfringens 24 essays were performed six for each experimental group.

in every cycle of 5 minutes in a total of 15 minutes a sample of 0.1ml was removed and cultured in blood agar media for s. aureus and c. perfringens and emb agar for e. coli.

