The solution was mixed thor- oughly and emulsion centrifuged for 10 minutes at 15000 rpm at 4 degC Eppendorf 5424 R. The supernatant was transferred to an HPLC vial for Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry LC-MS analysis.HILIC-HRMS and multiple tandem HRMS analysis and data processing was carried out on an Accela 600 HPLC system combined with an Exactive Orbitrap mass spectrometer ThermoFisher Scientific.

The composition of colostrum varies among species particularly in the concentration of immunoglobulins antibodies that are a sample of those in circulation in the mother.

The class of immunoglobulin that predominates in colostrum is a function of the type of placenta possessed by a given species.Immunoglobulins are not the only form of maternally-derived immune protection.

The latter may not be digested for energy provision but instead act against colonisation by potentially pathogenic microorganisms by competitively blocking their mucous and cell surface attachment receptors.

The diversity and changes in oligosaccha- ride content during lactation has however been investigated in only a few species.1Institute of Biodiversity Animal Health  Comparative Medicine and School of Life Sciences Graham Kerr Building College of Medical Veterinary and Life Sciences University of Glasgow Glasgow G12 8QQ Scotland UK.

The protein bands indicated by numbers were excised from the gel and subjected to proteomic identification the results are given in Table .

The pups are typically deserted after a very short lactation such that weaning is sudden and there is no period of mixed feeding.

The lactation strategies of marine phocids are distinct from other pinnipeds the otariids sea lions and fur or eared seals and odobenids walrus despite the fact that they occupy superficially similar marine environments and ecological positions see sum- mary in Supplementary Figure S1.

The adaptive advantage of this intense abbrevi- ated lactation is under debate but represents a strategy by which a capital breeder can rapidly transfer food with reduced energy expenditure associated with foraging.Here we chose a species of true seal with a lactation period before weaning that is in the mid range amongst phocids and in which females do not forage at sea during lactation.

The milk sample for track 2 and to a lesser extent track 7 had the smallest fat layer following centrifugation at 4 degC Supplementary Figure S3.

