l. plantarum wcsf1 and atccqr 14917tm and two strains with documented probiotic activities l. plantarum imc 510qr and imc 513qr synbiotec camerino italy were used as reference strains for lactobacilli and a probiotic s. boulardii codexqr  zambon-italia as a reference strains for yeasts.all the food-borne microorganisms were isolated from different foods including various samples with different features brands food origin time of ripening etc.. in particular lab were isolated from three different fermented foods table olives sourdoughs and raw-milk cheeses and yeasts were isolated from different foods mainly fruits and vegetables .

a similar behavior was observed for yeasts only three strains lg2 to10 and rib3 that had lower effect against genotoxin as shown in .moreover the results obtained with reference probiotic strains l. plantarum imc 510qr  l. plantarum imc 513qr and s. boulardii codexqr  were similar to those obtained with the majority of food- borne lactobacilli and yeasts.genotoxin modificationevident modifications of spectroscopic properties of 4-nqo were observed in the co-incubation supernatants after the exposureof the genotoxin to live cells of l. plantarum and yeasts with antigenotoxic activity .

2014 functional foods nutraceuticals and probiotics as functional food components in functional foods and dietary supplements processing effects and health benefits eds a. noomhorm i.ahmad and a. k. anal chichester john wiley  sons ltd.novak a. s'liz.wska k. and otlewska a.

our experiments can contribute to elucidate the functional role of food-associated microorganisms general recognized as safe ingested with foods as a part of the diet.keywords lactobacillus plantarum yeasts acid-bile tolerance 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide antigenotoxicity sos- chromotestintroductionover the past decades the food industry has been revolutionized toward the production of functional foods due to an increasing awareness of the consumers on the positive role of food in well-being and health.

17 1278-1283. moslehi-jenabian s. pedersen l. l. and jespersen l. 2010. beneficial effectsof probiotic and food borne yeasts on human health.

58 3429-3432.de vries m. c. vaughan e. e. kleerebezem m. and de vos w. m. 2006. lactobacillus plantarum - survival functional and potential probiotic properties in the human intestinal tract.

all authors read and approved the final manuscript.fundingthe study was supported in part by italian ministry of university and research prin project wz2njn005 university of teramo unit.acknowledgmentthe authors are grateful to prof. a. cresci synbiotec camerino italy for giving us l. plantarum probiotic strains.referencesahrne s. nobaek s. jeppsson b. adlerberth i. wold a. e. and molin g. 1998. the normal lactobacillus flora of healthy human rectal and oral mucosa.

the results obtained showed a significant correlation p  0.01 between acid tolerance and combined acid bile tolerance in both l. plantarum  and yeast  strains.antigenotoxic propertiesthe genotoxic effect of 4-nqo in the sos-chromotest was strongly reduced under in vitro co-incubation with l. plantarum and yeasts.

2420399. silva t. reto m. sol m. peito a. peres c. m. and peres c. et al.

16 1018-1028. dominici l. villarini m. trotta f. federici e. and cenci g. moretti m. 2014. protective effects of probiotic lactobacillus rhamnosus imc501 in mice treated with phip.

despite the importance of this species in fermented foods as a starter culture recently the potential use of l. plantarum as a probiotic is also increasingly gaining attention.

fermented milks and yogurt may constitute a good reservoir of microorganisms for the production of functional foods with probiotic activity but nowadays the necessity for novel and non-dairy probiotics products is increasing as reported for table olives    .in this work the ability of 36 microorganisms 22 lactobacilli belonging to the l. plantarum species and 14 yeasts from different species mainly isolated from table olives cheeses sourdoughs and fruits were studied for their antigenotoxic effects.

one way in which foods can be modified is by addition of probiotics but also fermented foods containing live or active bacteria or yeasts that provide benefits to gut health might also qualify as health-promoting foods    .

12 450-458. farhad m. kailasapathy k. and tamang j. p. 2010. health aspects of fermented foods in fermented foods and beverages of the world ed.j.

thus the interest in using yeasts as a novel nutrient fortification is relevant    .based on the above premises the aim of this work was to evaluate the antigenotoxic activity of 22 strains of l. plantarum and 15 strains of 10 yeasts species isolated from various foods against 4-nqo a nitroaromatic genotoxin which produces strand scission and formation of charge-transfer adducts on dna    .moreover in order to hypothesize if those microorganisms should act against genotoxic compounds in the gut their capability to survive against the harsh conditions of the git was also evaluated by an in vitro acid-bile tolerance test.materials and methodsorigin of bacteria and yeasts strainsall the microorganisms belong to the microbial collection of the bioscience faculty teramo university italy.

