Incorporating several other proven approaches like bioengineered bacteriophage therapy Epigallocatechin-3-gallate EGCG essential oil nanoemulsions and use of cationic compounds are promising alternatives which can be incorporated in Stenotrophomonas control arsenal.Keywords Stenotrophomonas maltophilia sulfa resistance genes phage therapy quorum quenchingINTRODUCTIONTABLE 1  Biochemicalgrowth characteristics of S. maltophilia.Stenotrophomonas maltophilia previously called PseudomonasCharacteristicsReactionresultsCharacteristicsReaction resultsmaltophilia or Xanthomonas maltophilia has emerged as an important nosocomial pathogen in clinical environments Senol 2004.

Administering broad-spectrum antibiotics to which S. maltophilia has inherent resistance eradicates wide range of bacteria that would have restricted the colonization of tissues by S. maltophilia through microbial antagonism.It is worth to briefly mention the S. maltophilia relationship with Vermamoeba vermiformis for growth and protection in the amoeba's which was investigated by Cateau et al.

1977 reported two cases of S. maltophilia meningitis in Africa 1977 when the organism was still known as Pseudomonas maltophilia.

S. maltophilia utilizes the interactions to coordinate phenotypes of the cells for host colonization and pathogenesis.The development of small colonial form or small colonial variants SCV phenotype in S. maltophilia Figure 2B is a response toward reducing the antibiotic pressure on thebacteria due to down-regulation of the BET bacterial electron transport andor DHFR dihydrofolate reductase pathway Table 3.

Standards zone diameter and minimal inhibitory concentration MIC interpretive Standards' for S. maltophilia as approved by Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute 2014 is depicted in Table 3.INFECTION PROGNOSIS ANDOR THERAPEUTIC OUTCOMEThere is an increased risk of co-infection that affects the limited the therapeutic option for S. maltophilia.

maltophilia of HIV infected individuals either improved or were resolved if restoration of immune function is achieved by highly active antiretroviral drugs.Primary cellulitis disseminated cutaneous nodules and mucocutaneous ulcers caused by S. maltophilia are often associated with underlining malignancies.

2006 reported a mortality rate of 30.7 in burn patients colonized by S. maltophilia while all 100 the patients that acquired nosocomial meningitis involving S. maltophilia died Yemisen et al.

Though S. maltophilia is known for resistance to imipenem and other antibiotics with lower spectrum than imipenem any of TMP-SMX MIN or DOX can still be good choice for treatment following appropriate AST.Even then secondary drug interaction with body metabolism when considering appropriate therapy for S. maltophilia is imparative.

2001 noted that S. maltophilia efflux pump F SmeF in a hyper-expressed form and multidrug efflux components could enhance MDR in S. maltophilia.

More clinical based research in biofilm inhibition QS disruption and blockings other virulence factors Table 3 as it relates to S. maltophilia are hereby recommended.As stated earlier S. maltophilia should also be included as one of the test isolates in antibacterial drug research as we proposed previously Adegoke and Okoh 2012.

