Therefore plausible explanations for the exacerbated periodontitis in these risk groups might be attributed to micro- organisms other than the 7 target species or to the whole of the subgingival bacterial biodiversity and the microbial co-occurrence patterns as recently suggested.25 Furthermore the negative im- pact of DM and smoking on the immunoinflammatory responses against pathogens might be also critical in worsening of disease progression and severity.5-7A strong point of this study is that 4 sites matched for clinical pa- rameters were analyzed individually per group providing a view of the microbiological aspects of healthy and diseased periodontal sites in these patients.

P. micra is a fastidious Gram-positive an- aerobic cocci33 which has been recognized as a putative periodontal pathogen because it is found in high frequency and high levels in peri- odontitis lesions and is able to predict the worsening of periodontal parameters.34 The findings of the current study are in agreement with those of previous studies that also observed a relationship between the presence of P. micra and smoking habit in patients with periodonti- tis employing cultures35 checkerboard DNA-DNA hybridization10 and real-time PCR.23 Remarkably Haffajee and Socransky10 reported an increased extent of P. micra colonization predominantly at sites with probing depth 4 mm in smokers compared to non-smokers.

Therefore it appears that DM and smoking jointly and individually do not considerably affect the levels and prevalence of key periodontal pathogens in patients with chronic periodontitis.In the current study sites matched for clinical parameters ie probing depth clinical attachment level and bleeding in patients with chronic periodontitis presenting a cigarette smoking habit type 2 DM and both conditions exhibited no significant differences in their prevalence and levels of any of the bacterial species studied.

Two sites from each of the following categories were sampled probing depth and clinical attachment level 3 mm with no BOP and no MB healthy sites and probing depth and clinical attachment level 5 mm with BOP diseased sites.

These findings may indicate that cigarette compounds can affect the colo- nization of periodontal sites by P. micra particularly at shallow sites.

2010132564-569.Dolezel J Bartos J Voglmayr H Greilhuber J.

Therefore the aim of this study was to compare the combined and individual effects of DM and smoking on the levels and prevalence of key subgingival periodontal pathogens in patients with chronic periodontitis.Material and Methods One hundred patients with generalized chronic periodontitis were allocated into one of the following groups DM n  25 non-smokers with type 2 DM S n  25 non-diabetic smokers SDM n  25 smokers with type 2 DM and control n  25 non-diabetic non-smokers.

Two subgingival biofilm samples from healthy sites probing depth and clinical attachment level 3 mm and no bleeding and 2 from diseased sites probing depth and clinical attachment level 5 mm and bleeding on probing were analyzed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction for Porphyromonas gingivalis Tannerella forsythia Treponema denticola Eubacterium nodatum Parvimonas micra Fusobacterium nucleatum ssp.

and Prevotella intermedia.Results There were no differences among groups in the mean counts of the bacterial species studied considering all sampled sites healthy plus diseased sites.

The mean levels of the bacterial species at healthy sites and diseased sites were determined separately for each subject and then across each group.

