the possible mechanism was also studied.resultsdiarrhea and non-structural protein 4 nsp4 concentration of jejunal mucosafollowing rv infection average diarrhea index and nsp4 concentration of jejunal mucosa was increased in weaned pigs p  0.05 table 1. however dietary apos supplementation could significantly attenuate diarrhea and decrease nsp4 concentration of jejunal mucosa in weaned pigs challenged by rv p 0.05 table 1.histology of jejunal mucosafollowing rv challenge villus height and villus heightcrypt depth were decreased in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs p  0.05 table 2 and figure 1. however supplementing apos in diets increased villus height and villus heightcrypt depth of jejunal mucosa in weaned pigs p  0.05 table 2 and figure 1. moreover in weaned pigs infected by rv dietary apos supplementation couldalleviate the effect of rv challenge on villus height and villus heightcrypt depth of jejunal mucosa p  0.05 table 2 and figure 1.expressions of tight junction proteins and concentrations of mucins in jejunal mucosarv infection decreased expressions of zonula occludens 1 zo-1 occludin claudin 1 and claudin 3 and concentrations of mucin 1 and mucin 2 in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs p  0.05 table 3 and figure 2. however supplementing apos in diets stimulated expressions of zo-1 occludin claudin 1 and claudin 3 and enhanced concentrations of mucin 1 and mucin 2 in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs p  0.05 table 3 and figure 2. furthermore in the piglets challenged by rv the effect of rv infusion on zo-1 occludin claudin 1 claudin 3 mucin 1 and mucin 2 of jejunal mucosa could be relieved by dietary apos supplementation p  0.05 table 3 and figure 2.bacteria ph value and volatile fatty acid vfa concentrations in cecal digestaafter rv infusion lactobacillus and bifidoba- cterium populations were decreased p  0.05 e. coli and total bacteria populations were increased p 0.05 the ph value were enhanced p  0.05 and acetate and total vfa concentrations were reduced p  0.05 in cecal digesta of weaned pigs table 4. dietary apos supplementation could increase populations of lactobacillus bifidobacterium and total bacteria p  0.05 decrease e. coli population p  0.05 reduce ph value p  0.05 and enhance concentrations of acetate and total vfa p  0.05 in cecal digesta of weaned pigs table 4. additionally in the piglets challenged by rv supplementing apos in diets could alleviate the effect of rv infusion on populations of lactobacillus bifidobacterium and e. coli ph value and concentrations of acetate and total vfa in cecal digesta p  0.05 table 4.table 2 the effect of dietary apos supplementation andor rv challenge on the intestinal morphology in the jejunum of weaned pigs n7 rv - infusing the essential medium rv  infusing the porcine rotavirus con basal diet pos pos-supplemented diet.a b in the same row values with different letter superscripts mean significant difference p0.05.glucagon like peptide-2 glp-2 level and antioxidant capacity in jejunal mucosavia rv challenge glp-2 concentration of jejunal mucosa was reduced p  0.05 and total antioxidant capacity t-aoc of jejunal mucosa was inhibited p 0.05 but malondialdehyde mda concentration of jejunal mucosa was increased p  0.05 in weaned pigs table 5. however dietary apos supplementation could enhanced t-aoc p  0.05 and decreased mda levels p  0.05 in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs table 5. the results also showed that in the pigs challenged by rv dietary apos supplementation could improve the effect of rv infection on t-aoc and mda levels in jejunal mucosa p  0.05 table 5.levels of endoplasmic reticulum stress ers- autophagy- and apoptosis-relative proteins in jejunal mucosafor determining the possible effect of ers autophagy and apoptosis the levels of some proteins in these pathways such as phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin p-mtor ser2448 mtor beclin 1 ccaatenhancer-binding protein homologous protein chop b-cell lymphomaleukaemia-2- associated x protein bax and b-cell lymphomaleukaemia-2 bcl-2 were analyzed by western blot.

following rv infection levels of p-mtor mtor and bcl-2 were reduced p 0.05 and levels of beclin 1 chop and bax were increased p  0.05 in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs figure 3. dietary apos supplementation could stimulate p-mtor p  0.05 and inhibit levels of beclin 1 chop and bax p  0.05 in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs figure 3. furthermore in the piglets challenged by rv dietary apos supplementation could improve the effect of rv infection on levels of p-mtor beclin 1 chop and bax in jejunal mucosa p  0.05 figure 3.discussionrv is well known as the pathogen that impairs the health mainly via inducing the serious diarrhea in younganimals and children 7-8. in this study rv challenge led to the diarrhea and destroyed gut barrier function in weaned pigs tables 1-4 and figure 1-2 which was consistent with the previous studies 9-12. furthermore the present study also showed that the nsp4 level was enhanced by rv infusion in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs table 1. thus the model of rv infection was successful in this work.

our previous study have shown that dietary pos supplementation could improve the immunological barrier of jejunal mucosa via regulating the levels of rv antibody siga and some cytokines in the weaned pigs infected by rv 5. this study reported that apos administration could reduce the nsp4 level related to the rv replication and pathogenicity 14 in jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs challenged by rv table 1. these could demonstrated that dietary apos supplementation improved the immunological function of gut mucosa and then inhibited the rv replication in jejunum of weaned pigs.our current studies showed that under normal or rv-challenge conditions apos administration increased population of effective microorganisms decreased population of harmful microorganisms and enhanced vfa concentrations in cecal digesta of weaned pigs table 4. as description of many previous studies intestinal microbiota and their relative metabolites including vfa play an important role for human and animal health as an indispensable part of gut barrier function 15 16. it is possible that supplementing apos in diets alleviating the diarrhea induced by rv challenge should be relative with improving gut microbiota in piglets.besides immunological barrier and microbial mucosal-epithelial integrity intercellular junctions between the epithelial cells and mucus gel layer are also important to protect gut against the pathogens 6 17. intestinal mucosal integrity is evaluated through analyzing mucosal surface area with morphology 18. mucins produced by goblet cells in intestinal epithelial are themain components of mucus gel layer 19. additionally some transmembrane and nonmembrane proteins such as zo-1 occludin and claudins mainly form the intercellular junctions between the epithelial cells 20. the results of our study showed that apos administration improved jejunal mucosal morphology and enhanced expressions of zo-1 occludin claudin 1 and claudin 3 and concentrations of mucin 1 and mucin 2 of jejunal mucosa in weaned pigs infected by rv tables 2-3 and figure 1- 2 which illustrated that dietary apos supplementation alleviating the rv infection could also be relative with the improvement of mucosal-epithelial integrity intercellular junctions between the epithelial cells and mucus gel layer.

original magnification 100 x.table 3 the effect of dietary apos supplementation andor rv challenge on concentrations of mucins in the jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs n7 rv - infusing the essential medium rv  infusing the porcine rotavirus con basal diet pos pos-supplemented diet.a b c in the same row values with different letter superscripts mean significant difference p0.05.table 4 the effect of dietary apos supplementation andor rv challenge on bacteria ph value and concentrations of volatile fatty acids vfa in the cecal digesta of weaned pigs n7 rv - infusing the essential medium rv  infusing the porcine rotavirus con basal diet pos pos-supplemented diet.a b c d in the same row values with different letter superscripts mean significant difference p0.05.table 5 the effect of dietary apos supplementation andor rv challenge on glp-2 levels and antioxidant capacity in the jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs n7 rv - infusing the essential medium rv  infusing the procine rotavirus con basal diet pos pos-supplemented diet.a b in the same row values with different letter superscripts mean significant difference p0.05.affecting the enteroendocrine rv may increase cell apoptosis via impairing antioxidant capacity ers and autophagy.

2014 112 381- 9. httpsdoi.org10.1017s000711451400097x.mao x liu m tang j chen h chen d yu b he j yu j zheng p. dietary leucine supplementation improves the mucin production in the jejunal mucosa of the weaned pigs challenged by porcine rotavirus.

issn.1006.267x.2016.09.000.chen h hu h chen d tang j yu b luo j he j luo y yu j mao x. dietary pectic oligosaccharide administration improves growth performance and immunity in weaned pigs infected by rotavirus.

1998 72 330-8.diao h gao z yu b zheng p he j yu j huang z chen d mao x. effects of benzoic acid vevovitallr on theperformance and jejunal digestive physiology in young pigs.

httpsdoi.org10.1371journal.pone.0137380.mao x gu c hu h tang j chen d yu b he j yu j luo j tian g. dietary lactobacillus rhamnosus gg supplementation improves the mucosal barrier function in the intestine of weaned piglets challenged by porcine rotavirus.

the diarrhea mean cumulative score was calculated as s fecal scores for duration of prv infusionn 30.porcine rv preparation and virus titre determinationwere kept in sterile tubes and immediately frozen at -80degc for microbial dna analysis.analysis of jejunal histologythe jejunal histology was determined as described previously 31. briefly following the fixing the jejunal segment was embedded in paraffin.

the oxidative stress in cells will induce ers and autophagy which can lead to cell apoptosis 24 25. autophagy is mediated by a complex molecular machinery in which mtor phosphorylation may inhibit the initiation step of macroautophagy and beclin 1 plays a critical role for autophagosomal formation and expansion 26 27. chop is one of specific transcription factors in ers and its stimulation is a kind of mechanism that ers induces cell apoptosis 24 28. apoptosis initiated at the mitochondria is regulated by the bcl-2 family of proteins including anti-apoptotic proteins such as bcl-2 and pro- apoptotic proteins such as bax 25.in our previous study rv infection may decrease antioxidant capacity induce ers and increase autophagy in ipec-j2 cells and small intestine of piglets 11-13. the present study showed that rv infection reduced t-aoc increased the lipid peroxidation product mda and affected expressions of p-mtor mtor beclin 1 chop bax and bcl-2 in jejunal mucosa of piglets table 5 and figure 3 which could demonstrate that besidesfigure 1 the jejunal mucosal morphology of the weaned pigs.

based on the tissue resemblance between pigs and humans this study will provide a possibility for apos preventing diarrhea induced by rv infection in children.figure 2 the effect of dietary apos supplementation andor rv challenge on the levels of zo-1 occludin claudin 1 and claudin 3 in the jejunal mucosa of weaned pigs.

1983 67 1031-58. httpsdoi.org10.1016s0025-71251631165-8.zhao y yu b mao x he j huang z zheng p yu j han g liang x chen d. dietary vitamin d supplementation attenuates immune responses of pigs challenged with rotavirus potentially through the retinoic acid-inducible gene i signalling pathway.

org10.1371journal.pone.0146312.tian g liang x chen d mao x yu j zheng p he j huang z yu b. vitamin d3 supplementation alleviates rotavirus infection in pigs and ipec-j2 cells via regulating the autophagy signaling pathway.

2016 163 157-63. httpsdoi.org10.1016j.jsbmb.2016.05.004.tang j wang a chen d mao x chen h liu m yu b he j zheng p yu j wang q. dietary lactobacillus rhamnosus gg supplementation alleviates the oxidant stress induced by rotavirus in weaned piglets.

the villus height and crypt depth of jejunal mucosa were determined at 40 x magnification with an olympus ck 40 microscope olympus optical company.analysis of nsp4 glp-2 mucin 1 and mucin 2 levels in jejunal mucosathe levels of nsp4 catalog no.

