different lowercase letters a b c indicate significant differences between groups at the indicated days following c. jejuni inoculation p  0.05.in addition we also detected higher numbers of goblet cells score 4 in the cecum of gf birds following c. jejuni inoculation and  but to a lesser extent in spf birds score 2 than in the cecum of c. jejuni-free birds score 1 and .effect of antibiotic treatment on gut microbiota composition of commercial broilers after c. jejuni inoculation.

significantly higher numbers of cfu of c. jejuni were detected in the cecal contents of at and gf birds with higher colonization rates in spleen liver and ileum than in birds with a con- ventional gut microbiota p  0.05. significant upregulation of t and b lymphocyte numbers was detected in cecum cecal tonsils and bursa of fabricius of at or gf birds after c. jejuni inoculation compared to the respective controls p  0.05. this difference was less clear in birds with a conventional gut microbiota.

tested inaabbreviations conv conventional broiler at antibiotic-treated broiler spf specific-pathogen-free birds gf germ-free birds liver-h liver sample was collected and homogenized in 3 ml of pbs nd not done.fig 3 immunohistochemical detection of t and b lymphocytes in the cecum of birds that were inoculated at 18 dph with either c. jejuni or c. jejuni-free medium.

thefig 5 cd4 a and b chb6 c and d and iga e and f mrna expression levels in cecum samples of at or untreated birds a c and d n  5group experiment 1 used as a representative experiment and spf or gf birds b d and f n  8group experiment 3. birds were c. jejuni inoculated at 18 dph.

the effect of antibiotic treatment was of a greater consequence than c. jejuni colonization but there was also a cumulative effect of the treatment and c. jejuni .discussionthe intestinal microbiota has been considered one of the key factors influencing the host response and outcome of c. jejuni colonization   .

overall c. jejuni colonization rates of other tissues including spleen and liver as well as ileum were higher in at and gf birds after c. jejuni colonization than in the respective control groups .c.

c. jejuni-inoculated untreated broilers showed only a slight or no increase in the cecal expression levels of cd4 chb6 and igafig 2 average cfu of c. jejuni in the cecal content of birds at 7 days after c. jejuni inoculation.

jejuni-free control groups at the indicated days following c. jejuni inoculation  p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001.goal of this study was to compare birds with different gut microbiotas in their c. jejuni colonization pattern and immune responses which had not been investigated under comparable experimental conditions in chicken before.

birds were either at experiment 1 or kept under germfree conditions experiment 3. shown is the infiltration of heterophils arrows in the crypt and villus region of the cecum at 7 days following c. jejuni inoculation.posthatch dph and with the same c. jejuni strain.

jejuni organisms to cross the intestinal barrier and finally colonize to higher rates other tissues in the at and gf birds.this is the first study in chickens with a modified gut flora demonstrating the rolefig 7 staining of goblet cells in control a and c and c. jejuni-inoculated b and d birds at 7 days postinoculation experiment 3. cecum section from spf a and b and gf c and d birds.of the microbiota on the outcome of c. jejuni colonization.

all birds were tested and shown to be negative for c. jejuni by cloacal swabs at the day of c. jejuni inoculation.

for this study we neglected these possible genotype differences because they were not in the focus of our investigations although at broiler-type birds were used for experi- ments 1 and 2 and due to experimental constraints layer-type birds had to be used for experiment 3. independent of the different genotypes used our data clearly demon- strate that a conventional intestinal microbiota influences the outcome of c. jejuni colonization as well as the local and systemic immune responses.

s1 to s3 in the supplemental material.in all three experiments significantly higher numbers of cecal cd4 cd8 and b cells were observed in at and gf birds after c. jejuni inoculation than in at and gf c. jejuni-free birds respectively .

b cfu of c. jejuni in the cecal content of spf c. jejuni-inoculated birds and germfree gf c. jejuni-inoculated birds in experiment 3 n  8group.

significantly higher levels of cd4 and chb6 as well as iga mrna expression were observed in the cecum of c. jejuni-inoculated at broilers and gf birds than in their c. jejuni-free control groups p  0.01 .clinical signs histological lesions and goblet cell numbers in the intestines of at and gf birds after c. jejuni inoculation.

