bcl-2 expression was lower in the tbi group than in the sham group 24 hour after tbi but was elevated after cb treatment figure 7c and d. bax levels were elevated in the tbi group and were reduced after treatment with cb figure 5c and d. the ratio of bcl-2bax was significantly lower in the tbi group compared with the sham group p  .001 figure 7c and d. these data demonstrate that cb activated the pi3kakt pathway and inhibited neu- ronal apoptosis in tbi mice.

the level of glp-1r in the brain was remarkably decreased in the tbi group compared with the sham group p  .01 figure 9a and b whereas cb treatment p  .01 figure 9a and b resulted in a sig- nificant increase suggesting that cb treatment could activate cerebral glp-1r protein in the tbi mice.4  discussion figure 5 representative images of eb-stained in the tbi group a b and cb group c d. e the concentrations of the eb were normalized against the brain tissue weight and calculated as ng ebg of brain tissue according to the linear standard curve.

however the cb group showed a significant decrease in eb extravasations p  .01 compared to the tbi group.the fluorescence signal intensity from occludin and zo-1 labeling largely appeared between adjacent endothelial cells in the sham group figure 6a-c. by contrast in the tbi group this intensity was dramat- ically lower than in the sham group.this effect was confirmed by wb which revealed that levels of oc- cludin and zo-1 in the tbi group were markedly higher compared to the sham group.

in our previous studies it was found that cb is effective in the treatment of vascular dementia29 and diabetes com- bined with cerebral ischemia.13 our previous studies showed that cb can produce a large amount of scfa butyrate in the gut and exert anti-apoptosis and antioxygenation in vascular dementia ani- mal models which may have beneficial effects on host brain injury.30 these effects of cb can mainly be explained by its ability to increasethe production of butyrate and the secretion of the gut hormone glp-1.31 although the ability of cb to attenuate neuroinflammatory responses and apoptosis and to promote glp-1 have been sepa- rately reported in different experimental models the effects of cb on glp-1 secretion and production have not been clarified in a tbi animal model.in this study we provide evidence supporting cb as a treatment for and management strategy against tbi.

experimental designafter acclimation for 1 week the animals were randomly divided into three groups n  25 for each group i sham group sham-operated con- trol ii tbi group vehicle-treated tbi and iii cb group cb-treated tbi.

error bars indicate sem sham sham-operated group tbi tbi model group cb which were subjected to tbi and treated with clostridium butyricum.p  .05 vs sham group p  .01 vs sham group p  .01 vs tbigroup and p  .01 vs tbi groupby the bonferroni test.

compared with the sham group the ratio of p-akt akt was significantly reduced in the tbi group p  .001 figure 7a and b. in contrast the ratio of p-aktakt in the cb-treated mice was signifi- cantly higher when compared with the tbi group p  .05 figure 7a and b suggesting that cb treatment could activate akt.

a representative images of the fluoro-jade c staining in sham group b representative images of the fluoro-jade c staining in tbi group c representative images of the fluoro-jade c staining in cb group and d quantitative analyses of fluoro-jade c-positive cells in three groups.

error bars indicate sem p  .05 vs sham group and p  .05 vs tbi group n  4-5 per group.

error bars indicate semp  .01 vs sham group p  .05 vs tbi group p  .01 vs tbi group n  4-6 per groupbbb-related tj proteins which could maintain bbb integrity include transmembrane claudins and occludin and cytoplasmic proteins zo-1 zo-2 and zo-34647 the loss and degradation of which are closely related to an increase in bbb permeability.48 bbb impairment can result in fluid amassing and a subsequent increase in intracranial pressure which can further evoke brain edema and neuronal death.

in contrast the number of fjc cells in cb-treated mice was significantly less than in the tbi group.as shown in figure 4 the neurons in the tbi group were loose in arrangement and some of them were absent but in the cb treatment group the nissl's bodies increased.

nss was significantly decreased in the cb-treated group compared to the tbi group at 4 days p  .01 7 days p  .01 10 days p  .01 and 14 days p  .05 post-trauma suggesting that cb treatment effectively alleviated neurological deficits in tbi mice.

fluoro-jade c-positive cells fjc were increased in the cortical  cb treatment ameliorated bbb impairment in tbi micerepresentative images and quantitative evaluation of eb extravasa- tions in three groups are shown in figure 5a-e. the amount of eb dye in the tbi group p  .01 was significantly increased compared to that in the sham group indicating brain barrier impairment.

mice in the cb group were intragastrically administered with cb 109 cfuml once daily for 14 consecutive days prior to the onset of tbi and then following tbi they were intragastrically treated once daily for 14 consecutive days.

as shown in figure 3a brain water content increased in tbi mice compared to that of the sham group p  .05 while cb treatment led to a significant decrease in brain water content p  .05.  cb treatment delayed neuronal degeneration in tbi micethe results are shown in figure 3b.

