ap-2b is also expressed in the lateral gland end buds a c. ap-2b is expressed by a few cells peppered throughout the respiratory epithelium a. we did not observe any expression in the olfactory epithelium b-e.crispld1 is expressed in chondrocytes and mesenchyme adjacent to the nasal glandscrispld1 is expressed in the mesenchyme surrounding the lateral nasal glands a c red arrow and vomeronasal organ ablack arrows.

crispld1 is also expressed adjacent to the nasal septum crispld1 is expressed in the perichondrium and the connective tissue adjacent to the oe as well as chondrocytes in nasal septum and lateral turbinates and nasal septum b d and e.eya4 is expressed in the olfactory epithelium and not the respiratory epitheliumeya4 is very specifically expressed in the olfactory and not the re- spiratory epithelium a b and consistent with eya4 function in the olfactory placode.

eya4 expression is also present in the medial mnp white arrow d. moxd1 is expressed in the lateral regions of the lnp white arrow e. penk is expressed near the zone of fusion in the primary palate arrow f. in the mandibular prominence mdp we found alx1 and crispld1 expression in the medial mdp ap-2b in the lateral mdp and eya4 expressed in the entire mdp a-d arrowhead.histology of the e15.5 nasal regionat e15.5 the nasal cavity is in the process of differentiation the glands ducts cartilages and bones are differentiating and many distinct cell types are present.

for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.ap-2b is expressed in the cartilage and glands in the e15.5 nasal capsuleap-2b is expressed in anterior vestibule region as well as skin and vibrissae  a b. as reported ap-2b is expressed in the peri- chondrium of the anterior nasal septum and lateral turbinates a b d e arrowhead.

eya4 is not expressed in the respiratory epithe- lium nasal cartilage or glands .moxd1 is expressed in the nasal capsule chondrocytesmoxd1 is highly expressed in nasal cartilages including thefig.

at e15.5 alx1 ap-2b and crispld1 are expressed in glands connective tissue and cartilage with in the nasal capsule moxd1 and penk are expressed in the chondrocytes and glands while eya4 is expressed only in the olfactory epithelium.

c crispld1 is expressed in the caudal region of the mnp white arrow where alx1 and ap-2b is not expressed.

scale bars a  100 mm b c  250 mm d  100 mm applies to e f. for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.interestingly the expression domains of alx1 and ap-2b overlap in the lateral mnp and lnp a and b. crispld1 is expressed in lateral edge of the rostral mnp near the zone of fusion zof in the primary palate and is complementary to alx1 and ap-2b c. eya4 and moxd1 are similarly expressed in nasal pit d black arrows 1e white arrows.

we chose a caudal section to highlight the respiratory epithelium lateral nasal glands and vomeronasal organ b. the more rostral sections emphasize the olfactory epithelium the lateral turbinates ocular muscles and ducts and glands c. both depths contain the nasal septum and vibrissae.alx1 is expressed in the cartilage and glands at e15.5 alx1 is expressed in connective tissue near the nasal vestibule regiona b yellow arrow and nasal chondrocytes including the nasal septum and turbinates a b e arrowhead.

moxd1 is expressed throughout the entire anterior-posterior axis of the nasal septum.penk is expressed in diverse tissue types in the nasal regionwe observed the expression of penk in diverse tissues in the nasal capsule including the chondrocytes glands and mesenchyme.

we found that at e11.5 alx1 ap-2b crispld1 were expressed in both the lateral and medial nasal prominences and moxd1 eya4 are expressed in the olfactory pit.

the expression pattern of these genes at e15.5 is summarized in .ap-2b is expressed in the lateral nasal gland end buds while crispld1 is expressed in the mesenchyme surrounding the lateral nasal glands.

8. penk expression is expressed in perichondrium and chondrocytes.caudal section of e15.5 skull penk is expressed in mesenchyme adjacent to vibrissae black arrow dermis near the vestibule and lateral glands red arrow and nasal septum arrowhead.

at e11.5 we observed that alx1 ap-2b crispld1 and eya4 are expressed in the medial and lateral nasal prominences.

we found that moxd1 and penk are expressed in the lateral nasal pro- minences.

