the present study therefore aimed to 1 unveil the whole microbial communities in the rhizospheric and sur- rounding soils of e. haichowensis including bacteria fungi and archaea 2 explore the influence of 37 efs on the whole microbial communities in the rhizosphere of e. haichowensis 3 identify key influential factors shaping rhizospheric microbial community and distinguish the response of different microbial population to each ef.

eimpacts of environmental factors on the whole microbial communities in the rhizosphere of a metal-tolerant plant elsholtzia haichowensis sunsongqiang deng  tan ke  longtai li  shenwen cai  yuyue zhou  yue liu limin guo   lanzhou chen   dayi zhang  a school of environmental science and engineering huazhong university of science and technology wuhan 430079 pr chinab school of resource and environmental sciences hubei key laboratory of biomass-resources chemistry and environmental biotechnology wuhan university wuhan 430079 pr chinac school of environment tsinghua university beijing 100084 pr chinad department of resources and environment zunyi normal college zunyi 563000 pr chinae college of life sciences wuhan university wuhan 430079 pr chinaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 15 september 2017 received in revised form8 november 2017accepted 9 november 2017 available online xxxkeywords rhizosphere environmental factors heavy metals microbial community microbial diversitymolecular ecological networka b s t r a c t rhizospheric microbes play important roles in plant growth and heavy metals hms transformation possessing great potential for the successful phytoremediation of environmental pollutants.

this study gives a first insight into the whole microbial com- munity within e. haichowensis rhizosphere in situ and a hand for understanding the construction of microbial communities in rhizosphere.materials and methodssoil samples collectionsixty e. haichowensis rhizospheric soil samples were collected from three areas in june 2016 details see electronic supporting information esi fig.

in total spatial distance rhizosphere soil properties and hms showed distinct impacts on bacterial or fungal modules more than archaeal modules illustrating the complicated rela- tionship between efs and microbial interactions.mrt analysis visualized the influence of efs on microbial com- munity structure.

rhizosphere only showed strong impacts on fungi and bacteria accounting for 14.7 and 4.9 variation of fungal taxonomic composition and bacterial a-diversity.soil property effects on microbial communityin the present study bacteria and archaea were more sensitive to soil ph than fungi showing discriminated influence of soil ph across different microbial populations.

such a comprehensive n-cycle network links the whole soil microbial communities and the host plants together and stresses the important impacts on shaping microbial community.

strongly linked with microbial biomass soil aggregate size and water holding capacity  soil clay content has a close relationship with nutrient retention in soils and supplies better habitats for microbial community  .

it is worth mentioning that eurotiales was more sensitive to total hms than extractable or dgt fractions possibly explained by its capability of absorbing and tolerating hms .rhizospheric effects on microbial communitythe interactions between plants and rhizospheric microorgan- isms are complex and play important roles in shaping the microbial community .

this finding is consistent with previous report that comparing to non-cu-accumulating plant copper-accumulating plants can abate the influence of cu on soil bacterial community .spatial distance effects on microbial communityin the present study spatial distance also affected soil microbial taxonomic composition diversity and network.

in the present study the rhizosphere of elsholtzia haichowensis sun was comprehensively studied to uncover the influence of environmental factors efs on the whole microbial communities including bacteria fungi and archaea via quantitative polymerase chain reaction qpcr and high-throughput sequencing.

by analyzing molecular ecological network and multivariate regression trees mrt we evaluated the distinct impacts of 37 efs on soil microbial community.

hms showed important roles in driving the whole microbial community and explained the major variation in different domains.

nitrogen nh4-n no3-n no2-n and tn explained 47.3 variation of microbial population composition and 15.9 of archaeal taxonomic composition demonstrating its influence in structuring the rhizospheric microbiome particularly archaeal and bacterial community.

for the first time our study provides a complete insight into key influential efs on rhizospheric microbes and how their roles vary across mi- crobial domains giving a hand for understanding the construction of microbial communities in rhizosphere.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionthis paper has been recommended for acceptance by dr. yong sik ok.corresponding author.

therefore rhizospheric microbes possess great potential for the success of phytoremediation.some evidence demonstrates the direct relationship between rhizospheric microbial community and phytoremediation effi- ciency  .

