Of the 114 samples 57 samples had a 6 min col- lection time while the remaining 57 samples were col- lected over a 10 min sample time.

In this study we compare consistency of EBC volume and pH of samples collected by controlled 'paced' breath- ing using a new instrument with verbal and audio prompts to samples collected by uncontrolled free breathing.

The volume of each sample was measured and samples transferred to a 2 ml polypropylene centrifuge tube for storage in -20 degC freezer until pH analysis.For this initial study we collected 114 samples.

Of the 63 controlled samples 30 were collected for 6 min while the remain- ing 33 samples were collected over a 10 min sampling period.

Of the 51 spontaneous samples 27 were collected for 6 min while the remain- ing 24 were collected over a 10 min sampling period.pH analysispH was measured for all EBC samples with sufficient volume.

Few individual EBC samples had a volume of1.3 ml or more so EBC samples from each triplicate set collected within 45 min were blended together to provide sufficient volume for a single pH measurement.

Therefore to compare intra- subject variability between spontaneous and con- trolled breathing in samples collected in rapid succes- sion the majority of EBC samples were collected insets of three using an identical sampling method and collection time.

The variability between 10 min samples collected in rapid succession using the Loccioni instrument was notably smaller in comparison to the 10 min samples collected in rapid succession using the spontaneous breathing method figure .

In addition variability in sample sets collected on different days was also markedly reduced in samples collected using the controlled breathing method.pH analysis pH of EBC samples is an easily measured biomarker to monitor respiratory acidification which is associated with numerous respiratory illnesses .

For the 10 min EBC samples one sample from a subject was slightly below the pH range found in nominally healthy individuals pH6.12 and two samples collected from the same subject approximately 20 min apart had pH values of 4-5 far below the range of healthy individuals.

