the effect of essential oils on microbial composition and quality of grass carp ctenopharyngodon idellus fillets during chilled storagezhan huang xiaochang liu shiliang jia longteng zhang yongkang luobeijing advanced innovation center for food nutrition and human health college of food science and nutritional engineering china agricultural university beijing 100083 pr chinaa r t i c l e i n f o chemical compounds studied in this article carvacrol pubchem cid 10364 thymol pubchem cid 6989trans-anethole pubchem cid 637563 putrescine pubchem cid 1045 cadaverine pubchem cid 273inosine monophosphate pubchem cid 8582 hypoxanthine pubchem cid 790keywords essential oil grass carpmicrobial compositionhigh-throughput sequencing qualitya b s t r a c t antimicrobial and antioxidant effects of essential oils oregano thyme and star anise on microbial composition and quality of grass carp fillets were investigated.

compared to the control essential oils effectively inhibited the growth of aeromonas and shewanella in grass carp fillets during chilled storage.introductionessential oils are plant secondary metabolites which can be ob- tained from plant leaves seeds roots and other plant parts.

however few studies have investigated the effect of essential oils on the quality of grass carp fillets and few studies have investigated how essential oils affect the microbial composition of grass carp fillets using high-throughput sequencing.thus the goal of this study was to evaluate the effect of oregano origanum vulgare thyme thymus mongolicus ronn.

hence it can be observed that essential oils were effective in slowing down the growth rate of pseudomonas and aero- monas in grass carp fillets and the difference in inhibitory effects was related to the chemical composition of essential oils.

essential oils treatment retarded lipid oxidation and maintained low tba values due to the antioxidative properties of essential oils.

in this study putrescine and cadaverine were under detectable levels until tvc reached 5.35 log cfug day 2. putrescine concentration increased with storage time among all groups c. samples that were treated with essential oils had a lower putrescineconcentration compared to that of control and this could be due to the antimicrobial properties of essential oils which inhibited the microbial growth and reduced the formation of putrescine.

however pseudomonas is highly resistant to the antimicrobial compounds of essential oils  and this resulted in no significant inhibitory effect of essential oils on the production of cadaverine.fig.

samples treated with oregano thyme or star anise essential oil ex- ceeded this limit on the 8th day 77.90 79.71 and 78.96 re- spectively although control samples exceeded this limit on the 6th day 80.40. these results indicated that essential oils treatment can ef- fectively inhibit the degradation of atp and maintain a high quality of fish products.sensory evaluationessential oils have strong odors and may cause negative organo- leptic effects of food when they are used in large amounts.

samples treated with essential oils had less fishy smell and firmer texture compared to the control and this could be attributed to the antimicrobial and antioxidative properties of essential oils for inhibiting microbial growth and chemical reactions which was responsible for the off-odors of spoilage.

similar results were also reported by  who found that the application of nanoemulsions that were based on essential oils extended the shelf-life of rainbow trout oncorhynchus mykiss by approximately 3 days.conclusionessential oils oregano thyme and star anise have been in- vestigated as natural preservatives in grass carp fillets during chilled storage.

essential oils treatment was found to be effective in inhibiting microbial growth delaying lipid oxidation and retarding the increase of tvb-n putrescine hypoxanthine and k-value.

among the essential oils oregano essential oil exhibited the highest antimicrobial and antioxidant ac- tivities.

gc-ms analysis of essential oils components revealed that carvacrol 88.64 was the major component of oregano essential oil.

however oregano essential oil decreased the relative abundance of aeromonas while thyme and star anise essential oils decreased the relative abundance of glutamicibacter and aequorivita in fresh treated samples.

the use of essential oils has increased in recent years because of the growing demand for replacing synthetic additives with natural products.

