difficile has been reclassified as peptoclostridium difficile  and more recently as clostrioides difficile  and c. sordellii has been renamed as paeni- clostridium sordellii .

sordellii hemorrhagic toxin inflammationinflammasome rho-gtpase ras-gtpase toxic shocka b s t r a c t clostridium difficile and clostridium sordellii produce related potent toxins c. difficile toxin a tcda and toxin b tcdb c. sordellii lethal toxin tcsl and hemorrhagic toxin tcsh which belong to the large clostridial glucosylating toxin lcgt family.

indeed a double-toxin mutant c. difficile strain is still able to induce a il-1b response in human monocyte-derived dendritic cells  .thus c. difficile mainly via tcda and tcdb induces severe local and systemic inflammatory response.cytotoxicity and anti-inflammatory response of c. sordellii tcslthe lack of local inflammatory response in c. sordellii infection is mainly related to the tcsl cytotoxicity towards lymphocytes.fig.

c. difficile and c. sordellii toxins inactivate rac which is a critical regulator of the actin cytoskeleton and intercellular junctions leading to increased permeability of the intestinal barrier in c. difficile infections as well as increased permeability of endo- thelial barrier and edema in c. sordellii infections.

albeit lcgts from c. difficile and c. sordellii are structurally and enzymatically related they differ by recognition of distinct sets of rhoras-gtpases and induce two different types of pathologies including attack and severe inflammation of the intestinal mucosa in c. difficile infection versus limited local inflammatory response spreading of c. sordellii in deep tissues and toxic shock.

eclostridium difficile and clostridium sordellii toxins proinflammatory versus anti-inflammatory responsemichel r. popoffinstitut pasteur bacteries anaerobies et toxines 25 rue du dr roux 75724 paris cedex 15 francea r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 16 june 2017 received in revised form 7 november 2017accepted 9 november 2017 available online xxxkeywords clostridium difficile clostridium sordelliic.

sordellii only produce tcsl and few strains synthesize both tcsl and tcsh .distinct pathologies induced by c. difficile and c. sordelliiunbalanced intestinal microbiota most often resulting from antibiotic treatment is the critical factor promoting c. difficile growth and toxin production in the intestinal content.

it is noteworthy that toxigenic c. difficile strains usually produce both tcda and tcdb and some strains synthesize an additional toxin which is an actin adp-ribosylating toxin c. difficile transferase cdt whereas most of toxigenicc.

it is well known that the resident intestinal bacteria develop a barrier effect against exogenous c. difficile and fecal transplantation is an efficient treatment of c. difficile recurrence or reinfection  .

based on investigations in human colonic samples and experimental mouse model c. difficile toxins stimulate the synthesis of il-23 which enhances il-17 production and subse- quently that of proinflammatory cytokines il-1 il-6 tnf-a gran- ulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor and chemokinescxcl1-2 cxcl5 il-8 ccl2 ccl7  .a systemic inflammatory response following the local intestinal inflammation characterized by severe polymorphonuclear infil- tration associated with tissue injuries has also been characterized in patient with c. difficile infection including leukocytosis and in- crease in the serum concentrations of tnf-a il-1b il-6 il-10 myeloperoxidase and prostaglandin e2  .

thereby c. difficile toxins can induce the in- flammatory response through their enzymatic activity but inde- pendently of their effects on the actin cytoskeleton.more recent works show that c. difficile toxins induce inflam- mation response through activation of the inflammasome .

the toxin mechanisms of pro-versus anti-inflammatory responses are discussed.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionclostridium difficile and clostridium sordellii are related gram- positive spore-forming anaerobic bacteria.

c. difficile and c. sordellii produce related potent toxinsc.

difficile toxin a tcda and toxin b tcdb c. sordellii lethal toxin tcsl and hemorrhagic toxin tcsh which belong to the large clostridial glucosylating toxin lcgt family.

difficile and c. sordellii lcgts catalyze the glucosylation of rho- andor ras-gtpases from udp-glucose.

