therefore a combi- nation treatment regimen involving anti-pd-1 in conjunc- tion with nac or rapamycin may offer clinical benefit.genetic factors and metabolic pathways that regu- late oxidative stress have been linked to scleroderma and progressive systemic sclerosis 6768. oxidative stress is a trigger of transforming growth factor b tgfb 69 which plays a central role in the activation and production of col- lagen by fibroblasts in the skin and parenchymal organs 70. in response to tgfb mtorc1 activity appears essential to sustain the proliferation of fibroblasts 71. expectedly rapamycin blocks the tgfb-induced prolifera- tion of fibroblasts 72 and production of type i collagen 73. in accordance with the concept of a pathogenic role of oxidative stress intravenous nac may have clinical effi- cacy in scleroderma patients with raynaud's phenomenon74 and those with interstitial lung disease 75.metabolic targets of treatment in rheumatic diseasesglucocorticoids have revolutionized the treat- ment of patients with arthritis and other inflammatory diseases since the mid-20th century 76. they bind to the glucocorticoid receptor and regulate transcription of genes involved in metabolism 77. the efficacy of gluco- corticoids has been linked to inhibition of glycolysis 78 while the stimulation of autophagy 79 and mtor activity 80 are mechanisms that have been identified as underlying the resistance to glucocorticoids.most conventional disease-modifying antirheu- matic drugs dmards including methotrexate myco- phenolate mofetil and leflunomide target purine orpyrimidine nucleotide metabolism table 2 and supple- mentary table 2. the newly introduced dmard apremi- last also targets purine metabolism since it increases camp levels and camp-dependent protein kinase a activ- ity table 2 and supplementary table 2. although hydrox- ychloroquine has long been used as a dmard its mechanism of action is newly attributed to blockade of autophagy through the inhibition of lysosomal acidification81 figure 1. surprisingly the autophagy inducer rapa- mycin and other rapalogs are also beneficial in autoim- mune diseases 7. inhibitors of pi3k or akt and activators of ampk which act upstream of mtorc1 are also being tested for efficacy in autoimmunity table 2 and supplementary table 2. however unlike rapamycin the ampk activator metformin has not reduced the severity of nephritis in lupus-prone mice except when this treatment was combined with 2-deoxyglucose 2dg which blocks glycolysis 32.the therapeutic use of nac in sle has been sup- ported by its effects on oxidative stress and the depletion of gsh in t cells 6 as well as by the depletion of cysteine in both the lymphocytes and plasma of patients with sle 2235. dhs1p and fingolimod block s1p signaling and the downstream activation of mtorc1 table 2 and supplementary table 2. based on their synergistic mechanism of action rapamycin nac fin- golimod and metformin may be combined for the block- ade of mtorc1 activity at multiple levels figure 1. future clinical trials should be directed at rigorously test- ing such combination treatments in order to maximize the therapeutic benefit rather than relying on the clinical efficacy of single medications that target distinct meta- bolic pathways either sensed or impacted by mtor.effect of nutrients on autoimmune rheumatic diseasesin addition to conventional drugs diet and nutra- ceuticals may influence autoimmunity.

dhfr  dihydrofolate reductase ra  rheumatoid arthritis psa  psoriatic arthritis tpmtprt  thiopurine methyltransferasephosphoribosyltransferase impdh  inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase sle  systemic lupus erythematosus dhodh  dihydroorotate dehydro- genase pka  protein kinase a pde4  phosphodiesterase 4 gcr  glucocorticoid receptor mtorc1  mech- anistic target of rapamycin complex 1 ssc  systemic sclerosis jra  juvenile ra ss  sjoeurgren's syndrome ph  pulmonary hypertension gsh  glutathione ild  interstitial lung disease etc  electron transport chain cia  type ii collagen-induced arthritis s1p  sphingosine-1-phosphate ms  multiple sclerosis ibd  inflamma- tory bowel disease lpa  lysophosphatidic acid.t cell hyperactivity and nephritis by rapamycin both in mice and in patients with lupus table 2 and supple- mentary table 2. the contraction of proinflamma- tory necrosis-prone dn t cells and expansion of treg cells have each been proposed as mechanisms of action for rapamycin 26. oxidative stress apparently lies upstream of mtorc1 activation in t cells since nac has similar immunologic effects 31. activation of amp-dependent protein kinase ampk which inhibits mtorc1 has been shown to have clinical benefit in mouse models of lupus 32. moreover mtorc1 is activated in b cells 47 and promotes plasma cell development in lupus-prone mice 48. thus similar to that observed in t cells 3344 mtorc1 activity and autophagy are also enhanced in lupus b cells 4849.ra.

fish oil extra-virgin olive oil and terpenoids have antioxidant properties and reduce the severity of nephritis in patients with sle table 3 and supplementary table 3. along these lines calorie intake and the composition of dietary lipids can affect the levels of adipokines oxidative stress and disease activity in patients with ra table 3 and sup- plementary table 3. a predisposition to multiple autoim- mune diseases in patients with celiac disease which ischaracterized by sensitivity to the wheat protein gluten is attributed to multiple genetic factors although secondary deficiency of nutrients may also be a contributing factor 82. the lysosomal receptor slc15a4 which transports histidine has been genetically linked to lupus via the mtor pathway-mediated activation of b cells and den- dritic cells table 1 and supplementary table 1. among the amino acids kynurenine is a natural ligand of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr 83. activation of mtorc1 by kynurenine 22 is consistent with the con- cept of a regulatory cross-talk occurring between the ahr and mtor pathways 84. whereas the levels of kynurenine and its precursor tryptophan are increased the levels of cysteine histidine glutamine and glutamate are depleted in patients with sle 2235. thus designer diets with a predetermined composition and concentra- tion of amino acids may represent a new avenue in patients with sle and other rheumatic diseases.unmet needs and future directionsfor the future the large number of unidentified metabolites and mapping of their origin from nutrients host cell metabolism or microbiota represent significant instrumental data-handling and theoretical challenges.

compartmentalized oxidative stress is a prominent feature of metabolic changes in sle 23. as recently unveiled oxidative stress underlies the interferon ifn signature via the stimulation of mavs proteinfigure 3. contrasting influence of oxidative stress between systemic lupus erythematosus sle and rheumatoid arthritis ra in terms of pentose phosphate pathway activity depletion of glutathione gsh and nadph and generation of pathogenic antinuclear antibodies anas and antiphospholipid autoantibodies apl.

oxidative stress has been implicated in abnor- mal sphingolipid production a biomarker of lupus nephritis 38. the sphingosine-1-phosphate s1p recep- tor s1pr pathway involves mtorc1 acting to pro- mote the development of th1 cells over treg cells 39 figure 1. accordingly sphingosine kinase and s1pr- mediated signaling have been targeted for the treatment of autoimmunity in patients with multiple sclerosis those with lupus those with ra and those with inflammatory bowel disease table 2 specific source citations are listed in supplementary table 2 available on the arthritis  rheumatology web site at t.contribution of oxidative stress to the immuno- genicity of autoantigens.

whereas patients with sle exhi- bit increased metabolism of glucose through glycolysis and the ppp glucose is preferentially metabolized by the ppp in ra t cells which exhibit greater nadph production due to the activation of g6pd 7. based on the efficacy of blockade of glycolysis by 2dg in mice 1 and the enhancement of nadph by nac 8 an approach that has shown remarkable clinical efficacy in patients with sle 910 an increased flux of glucose through the ppp appears to be a desirable outcome in lupus figures 1 and 3. thus sle patientsand mice with lupus benefit from treatment with antioxidants 1 whereas ra patients and mice with cia apparently do not experience such a clinical bene- fit 7. unlike in ra 11 oxidative stress-induced mtor activation contributes to autoimmunity in lupus psoriasis psa as and rheumatic diseases in cancer patients treated with checkpoint inhibitors 12. impor- tantly mtor activation also underlies glucocorticoid resistance 6. therefore these considerations warrant an integrated genetics- and metabolome-based systems biology approach toward understanding the pathogene- sis and development of personalized treatments in the autoimmune rheumatic diseases.author contributionsdr.

given that en- hanced autophagy involves an increase in endosome traffic and elevated expression of rab4a the resulting depletion of dynamin-related protein 1 facilitates cell survival by retention of oxidative stress-generating mitochondria 4445. in addition to oxidative stress cell traffic to the lysosomal membrane and sensing of amino acid suffi- ciency account for the activation of mtorc1 7. whereas mtorc1 is activated 3133 mtorc2 is reduced in patients with sle 46 figure 1.the involvement of mtor in lupus pathogene- sis is further supported by the therapeutic blockade oftable 2. pharmacologic targeting of metabolic pathways in the rheumatic diseases literature references are listed in supplementary table 1 available on the arthritis  rheumatology web site at.

therefore cultivating a better understanding of the pathways of immunometabolism could provide new insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of autoim- mune rheumatic diseases.integration of genetic and environmental factors with immunometabolic pathways in analyses of autoimmune disease pathogenesisboth genetic and environmental factors contribute to the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases 9. however with the exception of complement gene deletions most of the lupus susceptibility loci identified in genome-wide association studies gwas confer only minor changes in disease risk 10. integrated analyses in which genetic fac- tors are included point to the relevance of a limited num- ber of metabolic pathways in autoimmune rheumatic diseases table 1 specific source citations listed in supple- mentary table 1 available on the arthritis  rheumatology web site at figure 2. interactome of lupus susceptibility genes constructed using strings software version 9.0  via evidence-based pro- tein-protein interactions.

importantly such metabolic changes were found to be correlated with the extent of inflammation as detected by hybrid positron emission tomographymagnetic resonance imag- ing 56. although t cells do not show mtor activa- tion monocytes and fls do and therefore these cells have served as targets for therapeutic intervention with rapamycin in animal models and in patients with ra and those with juvenile ra table 2 and supplementary table 2. in particular rapamycin blocks the invasiveness of fls in ra patients 57. deficiency of indoleamine 23-dioxygenase which catabolizes tryptophan into kynurenine has been implicated in the pathogenesis of ra and its animal model type ii collagen-induced arthritis cia table 3 specific source citations are listed in supplementary table 3 available on the arthri- tis  rheumatology web site at .

lupus 2000 9299-300.delgado alves j ames pr donohue s stanyer l noorouz- zadeh j ravirajan c et al.

j exp med 2000191423-34.winkelstein ja marino mc johnston rb boyle j curnutte j gallin ji et al.

j immunol 20091822063-73.vas gy conkrite k amidon w qian y banki k perl a. study of transaldolase deficiency in urine samples by capillary lc-ms ms. j mass spec 200541463-9.bengtsson aa trygg j wuttge dm sturfelt g theander e donten m et al.

in a subsequent enzymatic reaction 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase also gener- ates nadph as well as r5p an essential substrate for nucleotide biosynthesis and cell proliferation figure 1. increased metabolic flux through the nonoxidative branch of the ppp is supported by enhanced expression and enzy- matic activity of tal 233. the accumulation of sedo- heptulose-7-phosphate a unique substrate of tal 234 is also consistent with involvement of this ppp enzyme.kynurenine was found to be a top metabolic indica- tor of sle when assessed relative to that in matched healthy donors 2235. importantly the accumulation of kynurenine may stem from the depletion of nadph which is a cofactor of kynurenine hydroxylase 36. this mechanism is compatible with previous observations of the concurrent reversal of nadph depletion and kynurenine accumulation in patients treated with nac 22. similarto branched amino acids valine leucine and isoleucine 37 kynurenine also stimulates mtor complex 1 mtorc1 22. thus the nac-responsive accumulation of kynurenine is a biomarker of oxidative stress and a metabolic trigger of mtorc1 activation in sle 22.activation of the mtor pathway elicited by oxida- tive stress.

notably several lupus susceptibil- ity genes have also been associated with ra and with psoriatic arthritis psa table 1 and supplementary table 1. construction of a map of these integrated metabolic and genetic pathways as shown in figure 1 could provide further insights into the pathogenesis of autoimmunity.

rig-i associates with the mitochondrial antiviral signaling mavs protein which is then activated by oxidative stress in patients with sle 18.in a study that performed metabolome finger- printing of fresh stool samples sle patients were effectively distinguished from matched healthy subjects 19. colonization with segmented filamentous bacteria has previously been found to enhance interleukin-17 il-17 receptor signaling 20. a survey of 16s ribosom- al rna genes showed that body mass index bmi has an effect on sle at the level of the metabolite landscape but not at the level of microbial composi- tion.

