faecal transfer from obese mice to germ-free mice also increased adiposity of recipients compared to faecal transfer from lean mice to germ-free mice.

we noted that at early life pnd25 mice perinatally exposed to bpa bpa offspring were significantly leaner than vehicle offspring mice associated with a decrease of gwat at pnd45 in bpa offspring.

faecal supernatant of bpa mice allowed more e. coli colony formation than faecal supernatant of vehicle mice at pnd45 and pnd170 meaning that faecal antimicrobial activity against commensal e. coli is decreased in these animals.

described a similar gut dysbiosis between mice directly exposed to bpa and high-fat or high-sucrose diet mice.

knowing that obesity and t2d are associated with low-grade inflammation and gut dysbiosis we performed a longitudinal study in mice to determine the sequential adverse effects of bpa on immune system and intestinal microbiota that could contribute to the development of metabolic disorders.

these early effects are associated with an altered glucose sensitivity a defect of iga secretion into faeces and a fall of faecal bifidobacteria relative to control mice.

in obese mice and humans white adipose tissue wat presents infiltrating m1 macrophages that secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines such as tnf-a and il-6 charac- terizing chronic low-grade inflammation in parallel to adipogenesis and weight gain.

moreover the th1th2 cell ratio is increased in obesity proved by increased ifn-g production in obese mice.

indeed conventionalization of germ-free mice increases about 57 the total body fat and increases insulin resistance.

furthermore obob mice and obese humans displayed an increased ratio firmicutes-to-bacteroidetes compared to lean individuals suggesting an obese-leading gut dysbiosis.

to this purpose we performed a longitudinal study in mice aimed at investigating the immunologic microbial and metabolic parameters from early adulthood postnatal day pnd 45 until ageing pnd170 after perinatal exposure to bpa.results perinatal exposure to bpa contributes to obese phenotype and metabolic disorders atadulthood.

although peri-natal exposure to bpa increased the body weight of mice it did not change the food intake fig.

however no significant differences on inflammatory cytokines tnf-a and ifn-g level were detected in the pancreas between the two groups regardless of age of mice fig.

we observed a decrease in iga productionfigure 1. perinatal exposure to bpa provokes metabolic disorders in offspring male mice.

a body weight of bpa and vehicle mice was measured from pnd21 to pnd170.

