The strong enrichment of S typhimurium and E coli reactivity in the gut was confirmed by assessing CD154 and TNF-a expression in CD4th T cells from donor-matched blood and intestinal tis- sue C. Because the gut harbors up to 3 1010 memory T cells vs 5 10 109 in bloodmany of which are bacteria-reactive the absolute number of gut-resident microbiota-reactive CD4th T cells is likely to be at least 10 times greater than that in peripheral blood.Gut-resident bacteria-reactive CD154thTNF-ath T cellsproduced high amounts of IFN-gamma IL17A and IL2 while production of IL22 granulocyte macrophage colony- stimulating factor and IL4 was generally low Dand E and F. Interestingly lamina propria T cells showed increased IL17A expression and reduced IFN-gamma production relative to cells with similar reactivity in peripheral blood D and E.Enteric Bacteria-Reactive CD4th T Cells Are Clonally DiverseTo assess the clonal diversity of circulating bacteria- reactive memory CD4th T cells we expanded CFSE-labeled CD4th T cells using whole bacteria and autologous irradiated monocytes as antigen presenting cells A.S aureus- M tubercu- losis- and SEB-reactive T cells served as controls.

Enteric microbiota-reactive cells produced Th1- and Th17-related cytokines including IFN-gamma IL17A and IL22 but only low amounts of the Th2 cytokine IL4 com- parable to cells reactive toward S aureus or C albicans D and B and C. In contrast memory T cells reactive toward SEB M tuberculosis influ- enza vaccine components or tetanus toxoid showed a polarized Th1 profile with low expression of IL17A D and B and C. Boolean gating revealed a high degree of functional heterogeneity in expanded microbiota-reactive memory T cells with frequent co-expression of IL17A IL22 and IFN-gamma E. Bacteria-reactive cells co-expressed the tran- scription factors RAR-related orphan receptor gt and T-box expressed in T cells which are characteristic of Th17 and Th1 cells respectively F and G and D and E. Intriguingly a subset of CD4th T cells reactive to F prausnitzii L acidophilus or B animalis pro- duced the immunoregulatory cytokine IL10 in addition to IFN-gamma and IL17A F. Compared to T cells that are reactive toward M tuberculosis or vaccine antigens enteric microbiota-reactive T cells are functionally distinct and produce barrier-promoting and immunoregulatory cytokines.Microbiota-Reactive Memory T Cells Promote Intestinal Stromal and Epithelial Cell ActivationDuring periods of epithelial damage and exposure to commensals activation of microbiota-reactive memory T cells could promote protective immune responses.

However CD4thCD154thT-cell frequencies after SEB stimulation were similar be- tween adult and cord blood D and G.Human memory T cells down-regulate the naive marker CD45RA and produce cytokines more efficiently than naive T cells.In healthy individuals the majority of bacteria- reactive CD4th T cells had a memory phenotype 80 on average indicating that they had been primed in vivo E and F and A and B. Microbiota-reactive CD4thCD154thCD45RA- T cells expressed high amounts of TNF-a and IL2 when compared to CD4thCD154thCD45RAth T cells G and C. Therefore the circulating pool of memory CD4th T cells contains numerous microbiota-reactive cells that arise after birth and produce cytokines including TNF-a and IL2.Circulating Microbiota-Reactive CD4thT Cells Express Surface Molecules That Permit Mucosal TraffickingMemory T cells express numerous adhesion molecules and chemokine receptors to access different tissues under steady-state and inflammatory conditions.

Therefore circulating microbiota-reactive CD4th T cells are equipped with several homing receptors that promote mucosal access.When comparing gut microbiota-reactive CD4th T cells with those reactive to non-enteric organisms including S aureus M tuberculosis and C albicans enteric bacteria- reactive T cells were partially enriched only in CCR4 expression F. The homing receptor phenotype of enteric bacteria-reactive T cells is consistent with that of T cells reactive to a broad diversity of microbes located at barrier surfaces.Microbiota-Reactive CD4th T Cells Are Enriched in Gut TissueThe gut harbors 3 1010 CD4th T cells but their specificity is unknown.

Furthermore 5 10 of CD4thCD154th T cells expressed the gut-homing surface markers integrin b7 and CCR9 C and D. Relative to total memory CD4th T cells and CD4thCD154- T cells enteric bacteria-reactive T cells had high expression of the mucosa-homing receptors CCR4 and CCR6 60 low expression of CCR10 and comparable expression of CXCR3 and CCR2 D and D. Microbiota-reactive CD4th T cells alsoFigure 2.

Whether this drives IBD in humans however remains unknown.Although CD4th T-cell responses to intestinal bacteria are known to occur in humans-several aspects of this topic are largely uncharacterized including the frequency of human T cells in the gut and periphery that are reactiveto phylogenetically distinct intestinal microbes the T-cell receptor TCR diversity and clonotype sharing of these T cells the functional phenotype of gut microbe-reactive T cells and their impact on tissue-resident cell populations and how microbe-reactive T cells change during chronic intestinal inflammation.

CD4th T cells reactive to S aureus C albicans and M tuberculosis were generally more abundant B and B and C.Activation markers CD69 and ICOS were up-regulated on activated antigen-reactive CD4thCD154th T cells D. Responses were major histo- compatibility complex II dependent  E and lipopolysaccharide failed to induce CD154 expression confirming that CD154 up-regulation was not a consequence of non-specific microbial re- sponses B and C. Based on CD154th cell frequencies we calculated that enteric bacteria-reactive CD4th T cells were present at precursor frequencies of 40 500 cells per 106 circulating CD4th T cells for almost all enteric bacteria surveyed C and F.The newborn gut is primarily colonized with maternal vaginal and fecal bacteria after birth.

To identify homing receptors expressed by bacteria-reactive CD4th T cells we enriched CD4thCD154th T cells using magnetic beads to visualize rare enteric- bacteria-reactive T cells and analyzed them by flow cytometry A. Microbiota-reactive T cells had a central memory phenotype with 60 expressing high levels of CCR7 B.

Antigen- reactive T cells proliferated in a major histocompatibility complex II dependent manner and were readily detec- tible after 3 6 days A and B D. Proliferating cells expressed several acti- vation markers including ICOS CD25 and OX40 A and B E and F. Consistent with the CD154 assay S aureus M tuberculosis and SEB strongly induced T-cell proliferation A and B and B and C.Flow cytometry analysis revealed a diverse TCR Vb repertoire in bacteria-reactive T cells similar to polyclonal stimulation with phytohemagglutinin but different to stimulation with SEB which is known to activate a restricted Vb repertoire C.To directly assess the clonal diversity of bacteria-reactive CD4th T cells we isolated CFSElow bacteria-reactive memory T cells and assessed TCR Vb clonotypes by multiplex polymerase chain reaction and deep sequencing.

For analysis of cytokine expression by microbiota-specific T cells a minimum of 20 CD4th CD154th TNF-ath T cells was used donors with lower events were excluded.CD154 Enrichment of Antigen-Specific T CellsFor magnetic cell separation enrichment of CD4thCD154th T cells CD154 Enrichment and Detection Kit was used Mil- tenyi Biotec.

