an assay carried out in india to study the acceptability of different vaginal formulations tablets acceptability score was 4.35 out of 5 thus 95 of the women reported that the product was easy to use and did not affect sexual pleasure .currently two categories of tablets for vaginal application are de-scribed in literature fast disintegrating tablets and controlled release systems.these concepts of drug delivery systems can be used in conjunction to design tablets which could both be dispersed rapidly and have a longer residence time in the vaginal cavity.

6. release profile of lactobacillus bacteria from vaginal tablets tested in svf ph 5.5 at 37 - 0.1 degc for 8 h n  3 all points are expressed as mean - sd.storage and viability assaythe evolution of lactobacillus viable cells in vaginal tablets throughout 90 days at rt and in a desiccator is displayed in .initial viability of the vaginal tablets containing the encapsulated bacteria was.9.04 - 0.02 log cfug.

despite the loss of 0.62 log units vaginal tablets assured high survival rates throughout the 90 days of storage with viable numbers above 108 cfug which supposed an op- timal probiotic quantity for vaginal therapy 108-1010 cfug  .lactobacillus microparticles incorporated into these vaginal tables which were previously reported  showed no re- duction in bacteria viability throughout the 150 days stability assay under the same conditions.

f4 tablets showed suitable technological properties for vaginal administration as well as mucoadhesion time 24.36 - 0.88 h and force 0.0941 n. disintegration assay in simulated vaginal fluid svf ph 5.5 showed that effervescent layer disappeared in27.48 - 0.05 s whilst matrix layer was totally gelled in 1 h. two different release profiles were achieved on the one hand a promptly release due to the dissolution of both effervescent layer and matrix layer's surface 1.10 x 108 cfug on the second hand a prolonged released of the remaining bacteria until 24 h 5.48 x 107 cfug.

thus different excipient could be added to vaginal dosage forms in order to enhance lactobacilli beneficial properties.the objective of this work was to develop a vaginal tablet thatcontains probiotic lactobacilli bacteria previously microencapsulated and freeze-dried.

the composition of fast- and slow-release layer of vaginal tablets is set forth in .as we can see in  we studied 4 formulations of slow-release layer which were selected from a total of 21 formulations data not shown based on technological properties required for vaginal admin- istration.

stability study revealed that bacteria viability was constant until 90 days in both ways of sto- rage in a desiccator and at rt with a final dosage optimal for vaginal therapy 108-1010 cfug.the overall results of this investigation suggested that this vaginaltablets designed had ideal technological and pharmaceutical properties making them a novel dosage form for effective and convenient treat- ment of vaginal infections for improving women's health.acknowledgmentswe want to thank biotmicrogen s.l.

a novel double-layer mucoadhesive tablet containing probiotic strain for vaginal administration design development and technological evaluationmaria teresa sanchez maria adolfina ruiz herminia castan maria encarnacion moralesdepartment of pharmacy and pharmaceutical technology faculty of pharmacy university of granada 18071 granada spaina r t i c l e i n f o keywordsvaginal tablet double-layer tablet mucoadhesion lactobacillus spp.vaginal infections treatmenta b s t r a c t vulvovaginal candidosis caused by candida spp.

is the most prevalent vaginal infection in europe and the second one in ee.uu so it has become a major female concern.

probiotics bacteria have been proposed as an alternative treatment with the aim of avoiding the adverse effects associated with conventional therapies including anti- biotics and other aggressive drugs for the vaginal mucosa and microbiota.

the purpose of this work was to design and develop a novel vaginal tablet that contained lactobacillus spp.

a total of 21 two-layers vaginal tablets which contained different polymeric ratios were proposed.

for stability and storage study it was found that bacteria viability was constant until 90 days in both ways of storage in a desiccator and at room temperature with a final dosage of 108 cfug which was considered appropriate for vaginal therapy 108-1010 cfug.introductionvulvovaginal infections are so prevalent that they represent about 20 of women reason to seek medical assistance and gynecological consultation according to the spanish society of obstetrics and gynecology .

they are a consequence of an im- balance in the vaginal ecosystem caused by different exogenous or endogenous factors that affect the indigenous microbiota and produce a decrease in protective lactobacilli.

lactobacilli are the most numerous dominant microorganism at 107 to 108 cfu of vaginal fluid in healthy premenopausal women they are called doderlein's bacilli or complex  they have the function of maintaining an environ- ment that limits the growth of pathogenic microorganisms by the pro- duction of acids hydrogen peroxide bacteriocins and modulating local immunological response il-8 il-10.

