2015. the increased retention time of digesta in horses fed solely forage compared with horses fed con-centrate may facilitate the growth of a more complex and rich bacterial community.cecal microbiometaxonomic classification of equine cecal bacteria in living animals fed controlled diets has been evaluated in few studies hansen et al.

ruminants fed a high-con- centrate diet had lower diversity and richness measures compared with those animals fed solely hay fernando et al.

2010 also observed greater diversity and richness in the rumen of steers fed coastal bermudag- rass compared with steers fed a wheat diet.several studies have investigated richness and di- versity of microbial communities in equine fecal sam- ples with low animal numbers shepherd et al.

although no treat- ment effects were observed between horses fed hs and horses fed ls in the present study diversity and richness decreased in the first 12 h after concentrate feeding and over the short-term 7-d adaption period which is consis- tent with studies performed in ruminants and cannulated horses pitta et al.

the majority of digesta-associated bacteroidetes 54.8 in calves were bacteroides 15.8 prevotella 15.1 and paludibacter 4.1 however equine cecal commu- nities in the first 12 h comprised prevotella 14.2 paludibacter 2.41 and bacteroides 0.13. the large-intestinal mucosa-associated bacterial communi- ties in these calves primarily comprised bacteroidetes cecal tissue 56.8 and firmicutes cecal tissue 21.1. however the rumen tissue-associated bacte- rial community in beef steers fed a concentrate diet and in beef heifers fed hay- or grain-based diets consisted of more firmicutes than of bacteroidetes chen et al.

verrucomicrobia relative abundances were greater in horses fed ls compared with horses fed hs over the 7-d period and verrucomicrobia has been identified as an inhabitant of the equine hindgut costa et al.

2004. although soy hulls were fed instead of a commercial concentrate coverdale et al.

diets consisted of a commercial concentrate vitality perform 14 horse feed cargill animal nutrition elk river mn fed at 0.6 ls or 1.2 bwd hs as-fed basis and horses had ad lbitum access to coastal bermudagrass hay cynodon dactylon.3otu  operational taxonomic units.fermentable substrate was added into the diet as re- ported by coverdale et al.

only 1 study has evaluated and characterized the core microbial community in different segments of the gastrointestinal tract when horses were fed a forage-only diet dougal et al.

2015. estimates of diversity and temporal stability of cecal mi- crobiota were lower in horses fed a high nutrient available diet hansen et al.

spirochaetaceae tended to be higher p  0.09 where- as spirochaetes tended to decrease p  0.10 over 7 d. verrucomicrobia tended to be more abundant p  0.06 in horses fed ls compared with horses fed hs.5084warzecha et al.table 3. core microbiome in 0-h baseline sample and low starch ls and high starch hs samples over 7 d inthe cecum of horses1taxonomic classification1ad libitum access to coastal bermudagrass hay cynodon dactylon.2otu  operational taxonomic units.the fibrobacteres phylum decreased p  0.01 over 7 d regardless of treatment.

regardless of treatment cecal ph decreased p  0.01 on d 2 and failed to return to baseline by d 7. although average ph measurements did not fall below 6 when measured 6 h after feeding 2 individual hs horses did display symptoms of lactic acidosis with body temperatures exceeding 38.8degc on d 2 and 3 with ph values at or below 6. although a treatment x day interaction was not observed p  0.66 on d 7 ph in horses fed ls was similar to those recorded on d 1 p  0.25 but horses fed hs had decreased p  0.01 ce- cal ph values on d 7 compared with d 1. similar to the initial 12 h greater p  0.05 concentrations of total vfa were observed in horses fed hs.

abrupt changes in the cecal environment can negatively affect digestive health and increase the incidence of gastrointestinal upset argenzio et al.

1974 willard et al.

1977 de fombelle et al.

