The largest study demonstrated that 42 of PLWH are current smokers compared with 21 of the general population.In contrast when the comparison group consists of uninfected subjects with a high smoking prevalence such as those in the Veterans' Aging Cohort Study or Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study which match patients with similar risk profiles smoking rates are more similar in the two groups although PLWH still have higher rates.Compared with nonsmokers PLWH who smoke have higher levels of inflammatory markers including soluble CD14 and expression of HLA-DR on both CD8th and CD4th T cells.Cigarette smoking has been linked to increased rates of mortality due to cardiovascular disease COPD pneumonia and lung cancer.If HIV is treated modeling studies suggest that PLWH who smoke lose more than 6 years of life expectancy more than that lost to HIV infection.PLWH are less likely to quit than the general population 32 vs 52.Multiple factors are associated with continued smoking in PLWH including higher ratesof other substance abuse psychiatric disorders low socioeconomic status and poor access to care.Perhaps because of multiple competing interests and limited time to address medical issues counseling on smoking cessation happens less frequently for PLWH than for the general population.Despite clear evidence that cigarette smoking contributes to significant disease in PLWH most studiesof smoking-related illness are poorly controlled for the impact of cumulative exposure to cigarette smoke and control only for smoking status that is current past or nonsmoking status.

The first study of the lung microbiome in HIV infection demonstrated an increased prevalence of Tropheryma whipplei in untreated subjects although a broader comprehensive analysis of upper and lower bacterial microbiomes using 16S rRNA methods did not demonstrate a significant difference in bacterial communities between healthy PLWH and uninfected individuals.In contrast PLWH with low CD4thT-cell counts have fewer numbers of species decreased a diversity although a greater number of unique species are present increased b diversity.The HIV lung microbiome contains increased amounts of Veillonella and Prevotella bacteria previously shown to be associated with inflammation.An increase indetection of Pneumocystis jirovecii is associated with both HIV infection and COPD.HIV pathogenesis is characterized by gastrointestinal CD4th T-cell depletion and a compromised mucosal barrier leading to microbial translocation endotoxemia and systemic immune activation.Shifts in the gut microbiome have also been seen in PLWHalthough the extent to which this is due to HIV infection vs other factors such as sexual preference is still unclear.

For example alveolar macrophages AMs are infected with HIV even in healthy nonsmoking PLWH and infected cells have impaired phagocytic function as well as abnormal oxidative burst and cytokine secretion.Untreated PLWH who smoke showed significant lung CD4th T-cell dysfunction and depletion along with high susceptibility to apoptosis which improved following cART.Thus HIV-associated lung disease in PLWH likely is driven by multiple inflammatory mechanisms 1 HIV replication in lung CD4th T cells and AMs 2 CD8th T-cell alveolitis and an imbalance of the physiologic lung CD4CD8 ratio 3 progressive CD4th T-cell depletion dysfunction 4 dysregulation of AMs and 5 impaired immune function in response to other pathogens which predisposes to infection and parenchymal damage.Together with tobacco exposure this combination of cellular activation and immune dysfunction contributes to the pathogenesis of lung disease.HIV-Associated Pulmonary Infections and the MicrobiomeStudies have revolutionized our understanding of the role the microbiome plays in health and disease.Althoughthe microbial community is smaller in the lung than in the gut it is clear that it is diverse and modulated by disease.Pulmonary flora is modulated by inhaled corticosteroids or bronchodilator usewhile smoking has minimal effects on the lung microbiome.In general most inflammatory disease states such as COPD are associated with a decline in microbiome diversity and increased abundance of inflammatory proteobacterial species such as Pseudomonas Moraxella and Haemophilus influenzae.Changes in the bacterial microbiome of the lung have been described in HIV infection and may account for increased pathology at both of these sites particularly in the context of advanced immunodeficiency.

Prior to the advent of combination antiretroviral therapy cART pulmonary infections especially Pneumocystis jirovecii tuberculosis and community-acquired pneumonia were among the leading causes of death.With the advent of cART noninfectious pulmonary complications have become more prevalent in persons living with HIV PLWHincluding COPD HIV-related pulmonary artery hypertension HIV-PAH and lung cancer.The prevalence of COPD in PLWH in the modern cART era varies by study and by definition but by spirometry 7 to 9 of PLWH have clinical obstruction while one-third have respiratory symptoms.The prevalence of PAH is 2500 times higher than in the general population with 0.5 of PLWH estimated to have HIV-PAH despite effective cART.TheABBREVIATIONS AM  alveolar macrophage cART  combination antiretroviral therapy HIV-PAH  HIV-associated pulmonary arterial hypertension INHALD  Investigating HIV-Associated Lung Disease Network PD-1  programmed death 1 PLWH  persons living with HIVAFFILIATIONS From the Department of Medicine Drs Presti and Atkinson Washington University School of Medicine St. Louis MO the Department of Medicine Drs Flores Palmer and Fontenot University of Colorado Denver Aurora CO the Department of Epidemiology Drs Lesko and Lau Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health School of Medicine Johns Hopkins University Bal- timore MD the Department of Medicine Dr Roman University of Louisville Health Sciences Center and Robley Rex VA Medical Center Louisville KY the Department of Medicine Dr McDyer Universityof Pittsburgh Pittsburgh PA and the Department of Medicine Dr Twigg Indiana University Indianapolis IN.FUNDINGSUPPORT 1U01HL121831-01 H. L. T. 1U01HL121814- 01 J. F. M. 1U01HL121812-01 B. L. C. R. L. 1U01HL121819-01 S.C. F. 1U01HL121816-01 A. P. F. B. E. P. 1U01HL121807-01 J. R. and 1U01HL121804-01 R. M. P. J. J.

In this review we discuss what is currently known about the pathogenesis of COPD PAH and lung cancer in PLWH describe other potential relevant mechanisms of lung damage that may contribute to these diseases  and outline priorities for better understanding the underlying mechanisms in the current cART era.HIV and COPDCOPD is highly prevalent among cigarette smokers and incidence increases with age.As PLWH are living longer high smoking rates contribute to the increasing incidence of COPD.Rates of hospitalization for obstructive lung disease have increased for PLWH in the cART era and are expected to increase further as the population ages.Several studies have demonstrated that PLWH have higher rates of dyspnea and alterationsin pulmonary function test results particularly low diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide as well as imaging findings of emphysema.PLWH also appear to have more respiratory symptoms including dyspnea and cough than smokers with similar disease burden by pulmonary function test criteria.Inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of COPD in PLWH.

Although one study demonstrated that cART increased the risk of COPD the pulmonary substudy embedded in the large Strategic Timing of Antiretroviral Therapy START trial demonstrated that the timing of ART had no effect on COPD progressionand poor HIV control in apredominant smoking population is associated with the development of HIV-associated COPD and accelerated annual lung decline.Antiretroviral drug use improves hemodynamics and survival in HIV-PAH although not as dramatically as PAH therapy.Inflammation in the LungFrom early in the epidemic it was noted that HIV infection is associated with a CD8th T-cell alveolitis that occurs in both asymptomatic patients and those with respiratory symptoms and HIV disease progression.

To understand the mechanisms of HIV-associated inflammation we must define the relative importance of a variety of potential causes of inflammation HIV itself tobacco alcohol and illicit drug use opportunistic infections shifts in the microbiome to organisms capable of causing chronic inflammation bacteria such as Prevotella persistent latent virus infection persistent fungi such as Pneumocystis current antiretroviral drugs or other as yet unidentified mechanisms.Understanding these factors may be critical to our understanding of other inflammatory disorders in PLWH and may allow us to develop therapeutic interventions to alter the progression of disease.The Investigating HIV-Associated Lung Disease INHALD Network   is a collaborative effort designed to evaluate and understand the mechanisms of lung disease in PLWH.

Some of the factors that drive these processes include tobacco and other substance use direct HIV infection and expression of specific HIV proteins inflammation and shifts in the microbiome toward pathogenic and opportunistic organisms.

Further studies are needed to understand the relative importance of these factors to the development of lung disease in PLWH.CHEST 2017 15251053-1060KEY WORDS COPD HIV inflammation lung cancer pulmonary hypertensionPulmonary complications remain a significant source of morbidity and mortality in patients infected with HIV.

Symptoms and signs usually present late and one-half of patients with HIV-PAH die during a median follow-up period of 8 monthsalthough a more recent study demonstrated that 3-year survival is 72 in patients treated with both cART and specific PAH therapy.Specific therapy for PAH appears to improve hemodynamic parameters more than cART as cART has minimal effect even if it is instituted early in disease.Approximately two-thirds of deaths are attributed to pulmonary hypertension rather than complications of immune deficiency.The CD4thT-cell count is the only independent predictor of survival and patients with HIV-PAH have poorer survival rates when compared with uninfected patients with PAH.Direct HIV infection substance abuse and chronic inflammation are particularly important in the development of HIV-PAH.Chronic exposure to HIV viral proteins in the lung eg Nef Tat gp120 as well as HIV-induced immune dysregulation contribute to pulmonary vascular disease particularly through an impact on pulmonary endothelial cells.

