whereas over 50 of childhood asthma were sensitized to in- door dust ev suggesting that evs present in the indoor dust could be an important causative factor in the pathogenesis of childhood asthma 16. moreover anti-dust ev immunoglobu- lin g igg antibody titers in serum were significantly higher in patients with non-eosinophilic asthma copd and lung cancer than in healthy control subjects irrespective of age sex or smok- ing history 19. adjusted multiple logistic regression revealed that sensitization to indoor dust ev high serum anti-dust ev igg was an independent risk factor for asthma odds ratio or 3.3 copd or 8.0 and lung cancer or 38.7 19.these results signify that bacteria-derived evs in the indoor dust are a major risk factor in the development of asthma copd and lung cancer although further studies should be con- ducted.conclusionin the aged society of the 21st century where the life expectan- cy of human being is increased due to sanitization antibioticsand vaccines non-communicable chronic inflammatory diseas- es associated with immune dysfunction have become major dis- eases which determines the life span and quality of life 20. asthma copd and lung cancer are very important chronic in- flammatory lung diseases and these diseases are increasingly prevalent along with aging population and changes in living en- vironment.

ultrafine particles refer to particles of 100 nm or less by their nature these particles do not readily sediment or flocculate and thus have a longer retention time in the atmosphere than fine particles allowing them to be carried long distances by the wind 12. in terms of health hazards fine particles are only absorbed by alveolar macrophages when they enter the lungs whereas ul-environmental health and toxicology 201732e2017021trafine particles are also absorbed by airway epithelial cells which can cause an inflammatory response in the airway.

indoor dust biological ultrafine particles and lung diseasesruses are only prevalent during epidemic seasons and therefore this leaves the question of their pathogenic source as ultrafine particles rather than as infectious agents in the pathophysiolo- gy of lung diseases.evs secreted by bacteria are nanometer-sized 50-100 nm substances for a purpose of communication between bacterial cells or eukaryotic cells and are known to secrete a large amount during their proliferation or deaths 1415. the authors first re- ported the presence of a large amounts of bacteria-derived evs in the indoor dust collected from bed in apartment 16-18. these evs were mainly derived from pathogenic bacteria.

copd was the sixth leading cause of death worldwide in 1990 and is predicted to be the third leading cause by 2020 5. according to 2014 data from the korean national cancer information center the incidence of lung cancer in korea is the fourth highest among all cancers it is the second highest for males and the fifth high- est for females 6. lung cancer is associated with the highest mortality rate among all cancers for both males and females 6. smoking and air pollutants are known to be important in the development of chronic inflammatory lung diseases such as asthma copd and lung cancer 78. three main causative factors have been suggested in a broad sense chemical sub- stances such as cigarette smoke and air pollution protein anti- gens including allergens secreted by house dust mites and bio- logical factors such as those derived from bacteria 9. exposure to chemical substances may cause chronic inflammatory diseas- es because of the inherent pharmacological or toxic effects of chemical substances.

bacteria-derived evs in the indoor dust caused severe airway inflammation which resulted not only in severe asthma but also in emphysema which is a major cause of irre- versible airway obstruction 16. repetitive inhalation of evs derived from staphylococcus aureus which is a typical gram- positive bacterium into the mice resulted in neutrophilic in- flammation without emphysematous changes 17. on the oth- er hand evs derived from gram-negative bacterium escherichia coli caused neutrophilic inflammation accompanied by emphy- sema when repeatedly inhaled into the mice airway 18. these results suggest that the pathogenicity of bacteria-derived evs is dependent on the substances contained in the evs.in a clinical study evaluating the risk of indoor dust evs isolat- ed from apartment beds only 5 of allergic rhinitis atopic der- matitis and healthy children were sensitized to indoor dust ev.

in the present commentary we highlight evidence to con- firm the indoor presence of bacteria-derived evs corresponding to the ultrafine particles and aimed to explore the relationship between these bacteria-derived evs and chronic inflammatory lung diseases.chronic inflammatory lung diseases and causative factorsasthma is a global issue with a prevalence of 1-16 in children and adults worldwide.

taken together microbial evs in the indoor dust are an im- portant diagnostic and therapeutic target for the control of chronic lung diseases such as asthma copd and lung cancer.keywords ultrafine particle particulate matter extracellular vesicle indoor dust inflam- matory pulmonary diseaseintroductionpublic concern for fine dust and ultrafine dust has recently been rising due to the influence of the yellow dust from china.

based on the knowledge that evs derived from pathogenic bacteria are pres- ent in large volumes in the indoor environment and given that these are important causative factors in asthma copd and lung cancer it is very important to avoid exposure to these bac- teria and extracellular vesicles as a primary preventive measure against chronic inflammatory lung diseases.

these data indicate that biological ultrafine particles in the indoor dust which are mainly composed of mi- crobial evs are important in the pathogenesis of chronic lung diseases associated with neutrophilic inflammation.

as for the clinical significance of sensiti- zation to evs in the indoor dust ev sensitization was closely associated with asthma chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder copd and lung cancer.

eissn 2233-6567environmental health and toxicologycommentary open access volume 32 article id e2017021 4 pages httpsdoi.org10.5620eht.e2017021importance of indoor dust biological ultrafine particles in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory lung diseasesjinho yang1 yoon-keun kim1 tae soo kang2 young-koo jee2 you-young kim31institute of md healthcare inc. seoul korea 2department of internal medicine dankook university college of medicine cheonan korea 3department of allergy and clinical immunology national medical center seoul koreathe role of infectious agents in the etiology of inflammatory diseases once believed to be non-infectious is increasingly being recognized.

more- over unlike fine particles ultrafine particles are absorbed into the body and increase the risk of cardiovascular and neuropsy- chiatric disease.

on this basis ultrafine particles are likely to be more harmful than fine particles 1-3. the authors have re- cently confirmed that bacteria-derived extracellular vesicles ev nanovesicles sized 50-100 nm are present in indoor environ- ment.

when we consider the fact that the inci- dence of lung cancer is increased in the presence of copd re- gardless of smoking and the results of animal experiments there is a limit to explain neutrophilic inflammation which is a key pathology of severe asthma and copd only by cigarette smoke.

igg sensitization to extracellular vesicles in indoor dust is closely associ- ated with the prevalence of non-eosinophilic asthma copd and lung cancer.

