the number of stunted children defined as having a height-for-age z-score haz -2 was 4374. there was no correlation between haz and whz spearman's rho  0.20 p  0.13 however children with sam were significantly more likely to be stunted fisher's exact test p  0.00037. age did not differ significantly between children with kwashiorkor marasmus or controls kruskal wallace test p  0.079 while age was marginally significant between stunted and non-stunted children wilcoxon rank sum p  0.05. the type of residence rural urban or peri-urban differed significantly between sam and controls with more children with sam originating from a rural residence.measurement of afb1-lys adductpreviously established methods for the quantitation of the afb1-lys adduct involve the addition of a tetradeuterated afb1-lys internal standard followed by enzymatic digestion of the plasma sample and solid phase extraction spe clean-up.

this study further highlights the prevalence of aflatoxin in children and empha- sizes the need to develop strategies to reduce aflatoxin exposure in this vulnerable population.authors' contributionsam and jbr performed the experiments and wrote the manuscript.

afb1- lysine concentrations were significantly higher in stunted children median  4.6 pgmg compared to non- stunted 1.2 pgmg as well as in children with severe acute malnutrition 4.3 pgmg compared to controls 0.8 pgmg.

some 21 of the children were suffering from marasmus caloric deficiency and 26 of the children were suffering from kwashiorkor protein deficiency.

the concentration of afb1-lys was significantly higher in children with sam p  0.0083 and in stunted children p  0.032 as compared to controls a c. afb1-lys concentrations differed significantlyfig.

afb1-lys concentrations did not differ between children with marasmus and controls but were significantly higher in children with kwashiorkor again consistent with previous findings .

aflatoxin exposure in nigerian children with severe acute malnutritionamy mcmillan justin b. renaud kevin m.n.

aflatoxin associated immune suppression could also increase susceptibility to infections and incidence of diarrhea in children.

finally liver toxicity of aflatoxin may damage the production of insulin like growth factor pathway proteins resulting in an adverse impact on child growth  .in a 2002 study of 479 children from benin and togo gong et al.

as noted a number of mechanisms have been proposed as to how aflatoxin may contribute to growth impairments in children including immune modulation re- duced insulin like growth factor 1 igf-1 and aflatoxin-induced en- teropathy .

measured afb1-albumin concentrations by elisa in a cohort of 166 tanzanian children at recruitment age 6-14 months 6 and 12 months after recruitment and found geometric mean concentrations of 4.7 12.9 and 23.5 pgmg albumin respectively but did not find an associationbetween aflatoxin exposure and growth impairment  .

conversely a cross-sectional study of children in benin and togo age 9 months-5 years observed a significant association between aflatoxin exposure and haz but measured a higher mean concentration of 32.8 pgmg albumin .

aflatoxin has also been shown to be a potent im- munosuppressant in relevant animal models  .relatively few studies have examined the relationship between aflatoxin exposure and growth faltering  .

a study of aflatoxin exposure in utero also demonstrated a negative association between aflatoxin and growth increases in the first years of life  .

in this report we have used high resolution lc-msms with idms to quantitate afb1-lysine in an extremely vulnerable population of nigerian children suffering from severe acute malnutrition.

