characteristics obtained using a self-administered questionnaire in chinese at recruitment and subsequent rou- tine visits included maternal characteristics mother's birthplace and age at birth infant characteristics type of delivery type of birth hospital sex gestational age birth weight parity and breastfeeding and socioeconomic position sep.table 3. adjusteda association of mode of delivery separated by unassisted and assisted vaginal delivery with psychological well-being in hong kong's children of 1997 birth cohort multiple imputation abbreviation hk hong kong ci confidence interval areference group unassisted vaginal delivery.

they also thank the late dr. connie o for coordinating the project and all the fieldwork for the initial study in 1997-8. this work is a sub-study of the children of 1997 birth cohort which was initially supported by the health care and promotion fund health and welfare bureau government of the hong kong sar hcpf grant 216106. since 2005 the children of 1997 birth cohort has been funded by the health and health services research fund hhsrf grant 03040771 government of the hong kong sar the research fund for the control of infectious diseases rfcid grant 04050172 government of the hong kong sar and the university research committee strategic research theme srt of public health the university of hong kong.

we used multivariable linear regression in a population- representative hong kong chinese birth cohort children of 1997 to examine the adjustedassociations of mode of delivery with behavioral problems assessed from parent-reported rutter score at 7 n 6294 and 11 years n  5598 self-esteem assessed from self-reported culture-free self- esteem inventory score at 11 years n 6937 and depressive symptoms assessed from self-reported patient health questionnaire-9 score at 13 years n  5797. cesarean section cs was associated with children born in private hospitals boys and firstborns higher maternal body mass index higher maternal age preeclampsia higher socioeconomic position sep and maternal birth in hong kong.cs was unrelated to behavior self-esteem and depressive symptoms adjusted for infant characteristics sex gestational age birthweight parity and breast feeding maternal characteristics mother'sage and place of birth and sep. in a developed non-western setting mode of delivery was not clearlyassociated with childhood or early adolescent psychological well-being.childhood psychological well-being is a growing concern in public health as mental health issues often emerge in adolescence and extend throughout adulthood with many other related adverse effects affecting health and social functioning.

model 2 additionally adjusted for sep highest parental education at birth highest parental occupation at birth and monthly household income per head at birth mother's birthplace and birth hospital.

the hong kong children of 1997 birth cohort is a population representative chinese birth cohort n  8327 that covered 88.0 of all births in hong kong from april 1 1997 to may 31 1997 and has been described in detail elsewhere.

another swedish sibling-matched study found that birth by cs was associated with higher risk of attention-deficithyperactivity disorder adhd but only elective cs had positive sibling associations thus1school of public health li ka shing faculty of medicine the university of hong kong hong kong sar people's republic of china.

bin hong kong dollars hk 7.80  us 1.table 2. adjusteda associations of mode of delivery with psychological well-being in hong kong's children of 1997 birth cohort multiple imputation.

ethical approval for further studies was obtained from the university of hong kong-hospital authority hong kong west cluster joint institutional review board andor the ethics committee of the department of health government of the hong kong sar as appropriate.

of these 6294 80 follow-up had parent-reported rutter scores at 7 years and 5598 71 follow-up at 11 years 6937 88 follow-up had self-reported self-esteem scores at 11 years and 5797 73 had depressive symptom scores at 13 years.about a quarter of the births were css 26.8 56.6 were unassisted vaginal birth and 16.6 assisted vaginal birth table .

mode of delivery was recorded as normal vaginal birth without instrumentation vaginal birth with suction or forceps or cs.

model 3 additionally adjusted for birth weight gestational age parity maternal age maternal body mass index bmi gestational diabetes and preeclampsia.among the 7681 birth cohort members included 3.6 were missing mode of delivery.

openreceived 3 may 2017accepted 23 october 2017 published xx xx xxxxmode of delivery and child and adolescent psychological well- being evidence from hong kong's children of 1997 birth cohortcherryy.

email figure 1. hong kong's 'children of 1997' birth cohort recruitment and follow-up numbers as of december 2013.also implying that findings were confounded.

to clarify the role of mode of delivery in psychological well-being we examined prospectively in a large population-representative birth cohort hong kong's children of 1997 the association of mode of delivery with child and adolescent psychological well-being including measures of behavior self-esteem and depressive symptoms.resultsas shown in fig.

private hospitals had higher rates of cs 48 than public hospitals 18. cs was positively asso- ciated with male sex being firstborn no breastfeeding higher maternal bmi higher maternal age preeclampsia higher sep parental education occupation and household income at birth and a hong kong-born mother.table shows that mode of delivery was not associated with rutter score or its subscores in any model.

