examined 42 children aged 36-71 months and demonstrated a statistically significant increase in the salivary lysozyme level in caries- free children 9 573.81 ngml- 1 compared with ecc children 2 180 ngml - 1. others have reported significantly higher con- centrations of lysozyme in unstimulated and stimulated saliva in children with s-ecc compared with caries-free children.

in one report the level of histatin 5 in children's saliva had no association with ecc.another group demonstrated a significant increase in the concentration of salivary histatin 5 in children with ecc n  41 average age  5 - 2.3 years in comparison with the control group n  41 average age  5 - 1.5 years.the most recent longitudinal study published by ao et al.

braz oral res 2004 184 350-355.al amoudi n al shukairy h hanno a. a comparative study of the secretory iga immunoglobulins s.iga in mothers and children with secc versus a caries free group children and their mothers.

a longitudinal controlled study of factors associated with mutansstreptococci infection and caries lesion initiation in children 21 to 72 months old.pediatr dent 2006 281 58-65.leong pm gussy mg barrow sy et al.

the identification of biomarkers for children at high risk of ecc is not only critical for early diagnosis but also important for preventing and treating the disease.international journal of oral science online publication 10 november 2017 e1 doi5keywords caries risk assessment early childhood caries salivary microorganisms salivary proteinsintroductiondental caries are one of the most common chronic infectious diseases of preschool-aged children characterized by the destruction of tooth tissues by synergistic complex effects among acids generated from the fermentation of dietary carbohydrates by bacteria and susceptible host factors such as teeth and saliva.

tooth decay of primary teeth in children 71 months of age or younger is referred to as early childhood caries ecc and affects 23 of preschoolers in the usa and over 60 of children in china.

any sign of smooth-surface caries in children younger than 3 years of age is indicative of severe ecc s-ecc.s-ecc is indicated by children from ages 3 through 5 years who have one or more cavitated missing teeth due to caries filled smooth surfaces in primary maxillary anterior teeth or decayed missing or filled score of 4 age 3 years 5 age 4 years or 6 age 5 years surfaces.destruction of primary teeth has already occurred when ecc is present which is not only harmful to a child's physical health but also has psychological and emotional effects.

it has been observed in studies that measured the mutans streptococci counts in saliva 4 reports a total of 451 children that the pooled risk ratio of caries was 2.11 95 ci 1.47-3.02. a longitudinal study that followed 39 children from the age of 2 years to the age of 4 years determined that the timing of colonization may impact the severity of disease.

was higher in caries-active children compared with caries-free children.

found that the concentration of ll-37 was lower in children with high caries activity in the primary dentition compared with caries-free children.

detected higher concentrations of lf in high dmft children than in caries-free children which may be related to caries prevention in primary dentition.however the relationship between salivary lf and ecc is unclear.

comparison of oral microbial profiles between children with severe early childhood caries and caries-free children using the human oral microbe identification microarray.

comparison of the salivary immunoglo- bulin concentration levels between children with early childhood caries and caries-free children.

comparison of salivary proteins between children with early childhood caries and children without caries.

vachirarojpisan et al.noticed that the mutans streptococci level in unstimulated saliva was a statistically significant indicator of ecc with an odds ratio or  4.5 95 confidence interval ci 1.8-11.7. a correlation between lactobacilli and caries increment was also found in young children 3-4 years of age with an or  16.2 95 ci 1.12-233.36 as well as a relative risk  2.70 95 ci 2.23-2.99. in addition to mutans streptococci and lactobacilli candida spp.

