in the present study there was a lack of or negligible influence of deletion of either gabab1 isoforms on 5-ht1a receptor bind- ing density as determined with either a 5-ht1a receptor ago- nist or antagonist despite the demonstrated complete loss of presynaptic 5-ht1a receptor physiological function in the gaba -- mice.

trends pharmacol sci 2636-43. doicryan jf kelliher p kelly jp leonard be 1999 comparative effects of serotonergic agonists with varying efficacy at the 5-ht1a receptor on core body temperature modification by the selective 5-ht1a receptor antagonist way 100635. j psychopharmacol 13278-283cryan jf kelly ph neijt hc sansig g flor pj van der putten h 2003 antidepressant and anxiolytic-like effects in mice lacking the group iii metabotropic glutamate receptor mglur7.

35sgtp-g-s autoradiogra- phy suggested that altered 5-ht1ar g-protein coupling onlylaura h. jacobson john f. cryan 1 florey institute of neuroscience and mental health parkville vic 3052 australia2 department of pharmacology and therapeutics university of melbourne parkville vic 3052 australia3 department of chemical physiology the scripps research institute la jolla ca 92037 usa4 autoimmunity transplantation and inflammation novartis institutes for biomedical research novartis pharma ag ch-4002 basel switzerland5 department of biomedicine pharmazentrum university of basel ch-4056 basel switzerland6 apc microbiome institute university college cork cork ireland7 department of anatomy and neuroscience university college cork western gateway building cork irelandpartially contributes to the functional presynaptic 5-ht1ar desensitization and not at all to the blunted postsynaptic 5- ht1ar-mediated responses seen in gabab1 -- mice.conclusion these data demonstrate distinct functional links between 5-ht1ars and the gabab1a subunit isoform and suggest that the gabab1a isoform may be implicated in the antidepressant-like effects of gabab receptor antagonists and in neurobiological mechanisms underlying depression.keywords gabab1 receptor subunit isoforms .

furthermore the influence of gabab1a isoform ablation on 5-ht1a receptor desensitization appeared to be largely independent from the level of 5-ht1a receptor expression.

4 representative autoradiograms of 5-ht1a receptor antagonist 3h mppf and agonist 3h 8-oh-dpat binding in wild-type gabab1a-- and gabab1b-- mice n  6 per genotype in thedifferent brain regions in wild-type gabab1a-- and gabab1b-- male mice n  6 per genotype as determined using 3h mppf and 3h 8-oh-dpat autoradiography b p  0.05 versus wild-typehippocampus and dorsal raphe nucleus drn a. quantification ofp  0.05 versus gaba--binding density mean  sem of 5-ht1a receptor binding sites inb1bthe fst mombereau et al.

5 density mean  sem of 35sgtp-g-s binding minus basal 35sgtp-g-s binding in specific brain regions in wild-type wtinduced by 5-ct in the presence of the selective 5-ht1a receptor antagonist way100635 b and specific 5-ht1a receptor 5-ht1argabab1a-- 1a-- and gaba-- 1b-- male mice n  6 perinduced 35sgtp-g-s binding.

neither changes in 5- ht1a receptor expression nor postsynaptic 5-ht1a receptor g-protein coupling appear to contribute to these differences.it is interesting to consider the possibility that the gabab1a isoform may also be expressed at serotonin neuron terminals and gating 5-ht release as is the case in the gluta- matergic system perez-garci et al.

pharmacol biochem behav 71533-554hoyer d mengod g palacios jm 1992 the 5-ht receptor family the use of radioligands and other tools to study receptor distribution.

gabab receptors are het- erodimers of gabab1 and gabab2 receptor subunits.

5-ht1a receptor .

furthermore of particular interest with regard to de- pression gabab1 -- mice are resilient to psychosocial stress and show an antidepressant-like phenotype in the fts and tailon the observation that following chronic but not acute treat-suspension test tst while gaba-- mice show en-ment of rats with antidepressants gabab receptor binding sites in the frontal cortex were upregulated pilc and lloyd .

subsequent preclinical studies have since provided similar findings on gabab receptor function or expression following antidepressant administration gray and green  sands et al.

this includes the enhancement of hypo-gaba-- and gaba -- mice was accompanied by en-b1bb1thermia induced by the prototypic gabab receptor agonist baclofen gray et al.

similarly clinical and postmortem studies including gabab receptor expression profiling im- aging challenges with baclofen and the influence of baclofen on growth hormone secretion and cortical function provide evidence for a role for gabab receptors in affective disorders see ghose et al.

this is supported by evidence from mice with null mutations of either the gabab1 or gabab2 receptor subunits which demonstrate an antidepressant-like phenotype and increased anxiety mombereau et al.

