Besides that Standardized photographs of the palate were taken at the same periods evaluated.From all patients submitted to aPDT 3 of them were female and 2male the mean age of the patients was 63 years old and the mean age of the denture was 8 years.

For this reason the aPDT is as feasible as Nystatin and could be considered as a DS treatment by the patients and the health professional.At baseline before treatment patients showed DS type I or II and clinical improvement of the inflammation after 6 sessions of aPDT was observed.

This preliminary study reports five clinical cases of patients with denture stomatitis DS treated with PDZ-mediated aPDT.

In each session 200 mgL of PDZ gel was applied on the upper prostheses and on the palate of the patients for 20 min then illuminated by a light emitting diode at 660 nm 50 Jcm2.

For most patients the CFUmL values obtained in the last microbiological collection day 45 were lower than those found before the treatment initial.

Three patients presented clinical resolution of DS no DS signal after aPDT treatment.

For immunocompromised patients systemic an- tifungal therapy e.g.

Besides that the disinfection of the den- ture is an important procedure to be performed when treating patients with DS once the plastic denture is the main source of the Candida infection .Therefore the development of alternative therapies for the Corresponding author at Humaita Street 1680 Zipcode 14801-903 Araraquara SP Brazil.E-mail address A.C. Pavarina.Received 19 June 2017 Received in revised form 21 November 2017 Accepted 29 November 20171572-1000c2017ElsevierB.V.Allrightsreserved.treatment of DS have been required.

The present study reports five cases of patients with DS treated with six sessions of aPDT and were followed-up at the time intervals of 15 30 and 45 days.Case reportFive complete denture wearers clinically diagnosed with DS were selected for the present study.

During the procedure the LED platform was positioned inside the month of the patient to irradiate the palate.All patients were oriented to brush their dentures with coconut soap and then with toothpaste after every meal and before going to sleep .

