at t4 the detection of p. gingivalis decreased to 26 42.62. the detection rate of p. gin- givalis at different time points after wearing appliances was significantly higher than that of t0 the primers of p. gingivalis and fima.in the case group and control group t1 p0.05 t2 p0.01 t3 p0.01 and t4 p0.05 .ten p. gingivalis positive samples were randomly selected for sequencing in invitrogen company invitrogen shanghai to confirm the validity of the 16s rrna-based pcr in clini- cal subgingival biofilm samples.detection and confirmation of 16s rrna-based pcr for fima genotypesthe distribution of fima genotypes among p. gingivalis-positive samples was subsequently analyzed .

morinushi et al  investigated the association between gingivitis and colonization of p. gingivalis in children of different ages demonstrated that the children carrying detectable levels of p. gingivalis had significantly higher inflammation scores than those with negative p. gingi- valis.

in this study we investigated the association between the prevalence of p. gingivalis-specific fima geno- types and periodontal health status in adolescent orthodontic patients to identify the patho- gencity of p. gingivalis during orthodontic therapy.methodssixty-one adolescent orthodontic patients were enrolled in the case group while the con- trol group consisted of 56 periodontally healthy adolescents.

previous studies by our team and other researchers demonstrated that there were positive associations between peri- odontal diseases and several pathogens including a. actinomycetemcomitans  p. gingivalis p. intermedia and t. forsythia  -.

our previous research showed that the prevalence of p. gingivalis detected at two months after orthodontic therapy was as much as 31.11higher than baseline and the count of p. gingivalis assessed immediately after removing orthodontic appliances was obviously higher than that of healthy group  .

however there was no report on the varia- tion in distribution of fima genotypes during the orthodontic therapy.in this case we assessed the prevalence of p. gingivalis and fima genotypes in subgingival plaque samples among different time points after placing orthodontic appliances to identify the pathogencity of p. gingivalis with different fima genotypes during orthodontic therapy.materials and methodsethics statementthe human subject protocol was approved by the ethics committee of jinan stomatological hospital and school of stomatology shandong university and written informed consents were provided by the patients of each participant.subjectssubjects of both case and control groups were consecutively recruited from department of orthodontics jinan stomatological hospital during june 2015- october 2015 with same pro- cedure and criteria as described previously .

the positive product appeared only from p. gingivalis atcc33277 not from f. nucleatum atcc25586 and a. actinomycetemcomitans atcc29522.at baseline t0 the frequency of p. gingivalis in from 117 subgingival samples of the two groups was twenty-nine 24.79 of which thirteen 23.21 from the control group and sixteen 26.23 from the case group.

at t3 the detection rate was 14.75 for fima type ii p0.05 24.5 for fima type iv p0.01 and 36.07 for fima type v p0.01 which was found at higher level than that of the controls the prevalence of p. gingivalis and fima genotypes in two groups.chi-squared test was used to compare detection rates of p. gingivalis and fima genotypes between two groups.

porphyromonas gingivalis fimbriae play a critical role in colonization of p. gingivalis in subgingival regions.

the incidences of p. gingivalis and fima genotypes were detected by polymerase chain reaction.

p. gingivalis is considered as a putative etiological agent in different types of periodontal diseases whose virulence attributes to its various surface compo- nents such as lipopolysaccharide capsule gingipain fimbria and so on -.

among them the major fimbrial subunit fimbrillin is thought to play critical roles in the colonization of p. gingivalis in periodontal tissues as it promotes bacterial adhesion to and invasion to subgingival regions -.

the p. gingivalis fima gene which encodes fimbrillin is a single copy on the bacterial chromosome and no homologous sequences were detected in other gram-negative oral anaerobe .

accumulating evidences suggested that p. gingi- valis strains with different fima genotypes displayed distinct virulence features  .

accord- ing to the diversity of pathogenicity there are two groups in p. gingivalis stains disease related and non-disease related and the variance of genetic heterogeneity was the base of the differen- tial of pathogenicity in microorganisms  .

