the ini- tial concentration of don was determined as the sum of bdon and rdon.the bioavailability of don bdon can be considered as the ratio of bdon to don bdon  rdondondtth 14 bdon  expd-k  tth th rdond1thwhere don t is the concentration mmoll-1 of don at time tbdon bdon 14 bdon th rdon x 100d2thbdon is the bioavailable pool mmoll-1 k is the degradation rate constant d-1 t is time day and rdon is the refractory poolwhere bdon and rdon are the concentrations of bdon and rdon respectively.fig.

marine pollution bulletin 124 2017 856-870859table 3model equations.equationdescriptionsourcecpptt 14 dmppt g-mppte-mpptdthcppt-mpptzczpt-nsdcpptzthtime rate of change of ppt   mpptg kpptgftppt-gfippt-gfnppt-gphytoplankton photosynthesis rateftppt-g egpptgttemperature effect on phytoplanktonf dith14 i ed1-i i thlight effect on phytoplanktonppt-gioptcdinoptcdipnutrient limitation of phytoplanktoncdin thksn cdip thksp cdincdip cdin thksn cdip thkspmppte rpptempptgphytoplankton metabolic raterppte 14 012 i th 024iopt -12ratio of phytoplankton exudates to10-ioptiopt-10photosynthesismpptd kpptdegpptdtphytoplankton mortality rateczptt 14 ddppt zmpptz th ddptzmdptz-mzptd-mzptn-kzpt f thczpt-nsdczptzthtime rate of change of zpt   kpptz cppt-cpptcppt  cpptgrazing rate of zooplankton on mpptz 14 0cppt -cppt thkspptcpptbcpptphytoplanktonmdptz 14 kdptz c cdptgrazing rate of zooplankton on detritusmzptd kzptdegzptdtzooplankton mortality ratemzptn kzptnegzptntzooplankton excretion ratecdptt 14 12mzptd th d1-dppt zthmpptz thd1-dzpt f thkzpt f czpt-ddptzmdptzczpt th mpptdcppt-mdptbcdpt-nsdczptzthtime rate of change of dpt mdptb kdptbegdptbtdetritus biodegradation ratecadont 14 mpptecppt th d1-rzpt nthmzptnczpt th mdptbcdpt-madonbcadontime rate of change of autochthonous don adon madonb kadonbegdonbtbiodegradation rate of autochthonousdoncbdon1t  -mbdon1bcbdon1time rate of change of bdon from rivers bdon1 mbdon1b kbdon1begdonbtbiodegradation rate of bdon from riverscbdon2t  -mbdon2bcbdon2time rate of change of bdon from wwtps bdon2mbdon2b kbdon2begdonbtbiodegradation rate of bdon fromwwtps cdint  -mpptgcppt rzptnmzptnczpt mdonbcdon time rate of change of din cdipt -mpptgcppt rzptnmzptnczptrnptime rate of change of dip where i t are light and temperature t and z the time and water depth and cppt czpt cdpt cdin cdip cdon cadon cbdon1 and cbdon2 are the concentrations of state variables of ppt zpt dpt din dip don adon bdon1 and bdon2 respectively.fig.

degradation dynamics and bioavailability of land-based dissolved organic nitrogen in the bohai sea linking experiment with modelingkeqiang li  yunpeng ma  aiquan dai  xiulin wang a key laboratory of marine chemistry theory and technology moe ocean university of china qingdao 266100 chinab qingdao research academy of environmental sciences qingdao 266000 chinaa r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 31 august 2016received in revised form 12 february 2017accepted 14 february 2017available online 24 february 2017keywordsdissolved organic nitrogen bioavailability degradation dynamics biogeochemical model bohai seaa b s t r a c t dissolved organic nitrogen don is the major nitrogen form in the bohai sea.

1. location of the bohai sea and the average rainfall for the main cities in the basin around bohai sea a.858k.

the effect of don on the different rivers of the bohai sea can be concluded from the changes.acknowledgmentthe authors would like to thank dr. qiang wang for proposing the use of the hydrodynamic model hamsom in the bohai sea and dr. xixi zhao for her assistance during the modeling process.

the bohai sea has a surface area of 7.7 x 104 km2 and an average depth of 18 m. the sea is connected to the yellow sea by a  109-km long channel with a coastline of  1235 km.

the peak values appear near the estuary of yellow river for din  3 mmoll-1kgs-1 and don  8 mmoll-1kgs-1 whereas the peak value appears near the estuary of yellow river and in the southwest of laizhou bay for chl-a 12 mgl-1kgs-1 .for liao river and hai river load the response field of don is higher than that of din similarly  23 of the terrigenous don from the two rivers is not remineralized in the bohai sea.

this approximation does not affect theenclosed sea area because it is sufficiently far from the boundary limit of the bohai sea to lose its memory i.e.

the don load of hai river provides the minimum contribution to din  0.50 - 0.15 mmoll-1kgs-1 for the bohai bay a a a. this result is consistent with differences in the capacity of seawater exchange among the three bays with the longest flushing time for the liaodong bay followed by the bohai bay andlaizhou bay .

for the response field of don the influence by liao river is the highest  0.60 - 0.08 mmoll-1kgs-1 for the liaodong bay followed by hai river  0.52 - 0.05mmoll-1kgs-1 for the bohai bay and yellow river  0.49 -0.13 mmoll-1kgs-1 for the laizhou bay b b b. this result may be due to the effect of autochthonous sources as well as high chl-a response concentration in the laizhou bay by yellow river and low concentration in the bohai bay by hai river and liao- dong bay by liao river c c c. therefore high din and don concentrations in the liaodong bay under the load of liao river in- dicates don accumulation and nitrogen utilization in the bay depend- ing on the supply of the bioavailable don pool.conclusionsin this study experiments were conducted to explore the degrada- tion kinetic constant k and bioavailability of don from the four sources.

the supply of dissolved inorganic nitrogen din pool from the don pool of liao river hai river and yellow river was explored using a 3d hydrodynamic multi-don biogeochemical model in the bohai sea.

initial and boundary conditions for state variables were derived using polynomial approximations that predict din dip don ppt zpt and dpt concentrations from the in situ observation of the shared the cruise of the national natural science foundation of china nsfc  remote sensing estimation from moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer modis data   and literature data regarding the bohai sea  .

7. simulative concentration distribution of din a don b and chl-a c in bohai sea and monitoring values of din.864k.

the values of k for bdon1 and bdon2 and the ratio of rdon were ob- tained from the incubation experiments of the two kinds of don and further debugged in modeling.the don the sum of bdon1 bdon2 rdon and adon din and chlorophyll a chl-a concentration distributions were simulated by the 3d multi-don biogeochemical model in the bohai sea on septem- ber 2010 .

as shown in  the concentrations of din don and chl-a were high near the sources of the estuaries restricted to the northeastern part of the liaodong bay ranging from 60 mmoll-1 to100 mmoll-1 60 mmoll-1 to 80 mmoll-1 and 26 mmoll-1 to44 mmoll-1 respectively in particular allochthonous input sources from liao river accounted for  40 of the total load at the bohai sea .

