therefore in this review we pre- sent the recent knowledge and advances in i microbial profiling of diverse communities at mined sites and acid mine drainage ii plantemicrobiome of mined sites iii signalling plantemicrobiome interactions in contaminated mine sites iv the role of rhizosphere microbes and plantemicrobiome interactionsv strategies for microbial reclamation of mined sites vi microbe-assisted revegetation in mine site remediation vii role of genetic transfer in remediation of mined sites and viii the technological gaps and future perspectives for application of microbes in mine site rehabilitation.

emicrobes from mined sites harnessing their potential for reclamation of derelict mine sitespalanisami thavamani   r. amos samkumar  viswanathan satheesh  suresh r. subashchandrabose  kavitha ramadass  ravi naidu kadiyala venkateswarlu  mallavarapu megharaj a global centre for environmental remediation university of newcastle australiab icar- national research centre on plant biotechnology pusa new delhi 110012 indiac future industries institute university of south australia australiad formerly department of microbiology sri krishnadevaraya university anantapur 515055 indiaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 8 march 2017 received in revised form 12 may 2017accepted 17 june 2017available online 7 july 2017keywordsabandoned mine sites heavy metals phytoremediationplant-microbiome interactions reclamationa b s t r a c t derelict mines pose potential risks to environmental health.

currently remediation strategies such as revegetation and phytoremediation have been employed predom- inantly in heavy metal-contaminated sites   however more emphasis must be given in understanding the role of plantemicrobiome interactions in mined sites for developing sus- tainable remediation methods.

thus the occurrence of diverse microbes reported from all the mine sites suggests that these communities can eitherthrive or adapt in extreme conditions.the microbial diversity in these sites is abundant with complex life cycles nutrient uptake and metabolism.

2. role of rhizosphere microorganisms in mined site environments.signalling plantmicrobiome interactions in contaminated mine sitesthe strategies that are followed for remediating the contami- nated sites using plant-microbe interaction signalling are i phy- toremediation which uses the translocation properties of the plants to remediate the sites  and ii rhizoremediation where the root exudates of plants facilitate the growth of microbial community in rhizosphere soil and those microbes growing in nutrient-rich environment in return will degrade the contaminants and environmental pollutants .

prog- ress towards a fundamental understanding as to how mycorrhizae and associated bacteria influence the vegetation development at polluted sites is still a big challenge.microbe-assisted revegetation in mine site remediationrevival of a polluted or disturbed site into its original state in order to restore the normal interactions between biotic and abiotic factors of the ecosystem is called 'reclamation' while 'revegetation' is a process of establishing suitable plant species which can survive the odds of all ecological factors and grow faster at the contami- nated sites .

once the risk assessment and evaluation is performed at the site phytoremediation is the widely adopted strategy however revegetation is also possible by overcoming challenges of soil ph depleted nutrients and heavy metal accumulations in contami- nated sites since the kind of vegetation in these sites is limited to very few species that tolerate extreme conditions.

future research in mine site microbiology must focus on engineering the microbiomes of rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere at mine sites to harness the full potential of microbiota in the rehabilitation of unusedabandoned mine sites.

yet microorganisms generally remain an undervalued asset in mined sites.

the microbial diversity in derelict mine sites consists of diverse species belonging to four key phyla proteobacteria acidobacteria firmicutes and bacteroidetes.

the activity of plant symbiotic microorganisms including root-colonizing rhizobacteria and ectomycorrhizal fungi of existing vegetation in the mined sites is very high since most of these microbes are extrem- ophiles.

besides highlighting the major breakthroughs in the application of microorganisms for mined site reclamation we provide a critical view on plant-microbiome interactions to improve revegetation at the mined sites.

also the need has been emphasized for deciphering the molecular mechanisms of adaptation and resistance of rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere microbes in abandoned mine sites un- derstanding their role in remediation and subsequent harnessing of their potential to pave the way in future rehabilitation strategies for mined sites.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductiona mine site is considered abandoned when metal mining and other processing activities have completely ceased and the site is exposed to toxic wastes as a result of dumping in pit cavities.

according to unep estimates in 2001 there are around one million derelict mines around the world of which 50000 are in australia alone and this alarming number of abandoned mine sites is a major environ- mental concern .

microbial community profiling of mined sites is currently possible after the advent of high-throughput techniques such as 16s rrna gene amplicon sequencing where the microbial communities or microbiomes of complex environments have been simplified.

