b exclusively breastfed f intervention formula-fed f2 placebo formula-fed.2 bigaia l. reuteri padia or probiobact 8 lactobacillus species basic world.and one blautia species otu8 3.0 6 2.4 p  0.005 over the first year while these species were low in f 0.04 6 0 1.4 6 1.3 and b infants 0.3 6 0.7 1.0 6 1.4. b.longum otu1 was characteristic of fecal microbiota in b in- fants compared with f infants throughout year 1 37 6 9.8vs.

metabolite profiles a and microbiota development b were computed from generalized unifrac distances that were calculated from normalized otu tables and phylogenetic distance trees from months 1 to 12 in b and f infants months 1-7 n  42 months 9 and 12 n  31. loadings plots of main discriminating and correlating features between the feeding groups based on microbiota and metabolite data circles  metabolites triangle  otu are shown in panel c. at month 1 the f and f2 groups clustered apart p  0.05 but no discrimination between the groups was detected at later time points p  0.05. the list of discriminative features is provided in supplemental table 3. fecal concentrations of scfa in b months 1 and 7 n  20 month 12 n  9 and f months 1-12 n  11 in either group infants are shown in panel d. kruskal-wallis test followed by the nemenyi significance test was applied for multiple comparisons of mean rank sums of each scfa in the different groups.

f intervention formula-fed.the fecal samples tested include competitive exclusion of the strain in the intestine or loss of viability during postdelivery processing of the formula powder by the participants at home.antibiotic treatment or maternal programming might also prepare niches for the colonization of exogenous bacteria 38 39. we will address the question whether allochthonous bifi- dobacteria better engraft in the infant gut in a follow-up study by using infant-derived isolates of dominant bifidobacteria in- cluding strains with 16s rrna gene sequences matching those of otu 1 and 2.in previous studies breastfeeding was shown to be associated with increased relative abundances of actinobacteria and fir- micutes at the expense of proteobacteria 40. in addition and also consistent with our findings bacterial richness and diversity were lower in b infants than in f infants 41 and bifidobacteria dominated the gut microbial ecosystem of b infants at all times during year 1 42. it is well accepted that hmos specifically promote the growth of bifidobacteria 43. in our study breast- feeding was associated with a higher relative abundance of 2 bifidobacterium species and 1 ruminococcus species compared with formula feeding.

15.5 6 4.8 p  0.0005 whereas one streptococcus species otu9 was specific for both f groups at month 1 11.9 6 8.9 vs. 1.1 6 1.3 p  0.0005 and rumino-coccus gnavus otu3 was higher in f infants than in b infants throughout year 1 9.1 6 4.5 vs. 3.5 6 1.8 p  0.05. analysis of the 10 most abundant otus in each f group re- vealed that a total of 5 otus belonged to the genus bifido- bacterium including the 2 most dominant species otu1 and 2 which were shared between f and f2 supplemental figure 4. an eztaxon sequence comparison showed that otu1 otu2 and otu4 had a 100 sequence identity with the supplemented species b. longum subspecies infantis b. breve and b. bifidum respectively although identification at the spe- cies level is impossible due to similarity with other bifidobac- teria supplemental table 2.presence of fucosylated hmos correlated with the occurrence of bifidobacteriabreastfeeding was associated with high relative abundances of otu1 100 sequence identity to b. longum figure 4a.

abbreviations used b exclusively breastfed bf breast- and formula-fedbf breast- and interventional formula-fed bf2 breast- and placebo formula-fed f exclusively formula-fed f interventional formula f2 placebo formula hmo human milk oligosaccharide lnfp lacto-n- fucopentaose ms mass spectrometry opls-da orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis otu operational taxonomic unit q-tof quadrupole-time of flight rrna ribosomal rna scfa short- chain fatty acid uhplc ultra hplc.received march 27 2017. accepted for publication august 8 2017.first published online september 6 2017 1274am j clin nutr 20171061274-86. printed in usa.

it is well accepted that the metabolite profile of the gut lumen is dependent on the structure and function of the resident microbiota 50 51. one recent study evaluated the use of probiotics in preterm infants and their impact on the microbiome and metabolome and concluded that metabolite profiles are different between probiotic and control groups which strengthens our results on the dis- crimination of b and f infants over time 52. although little insight is available for nontargeted metabolomics of healthy b and f infants wang et al.

b exclusively breastfed da discriminant analysis f formula-fed f interventional formula-fed f2 placebo formula-fed otu operational taxonomic unit scfa short-chain fatty acid.1284bazanella et al.figure 6 strain-specific detection of the 4 supplemented bifidobacteria in fecal samples of 4- 12- and 24-mo-old infants exclusively fed the intervention formula.

the impact of probiotic- supplemented infant formula on the composition and function of the infant gut microbiota is not well defined.objective we sought to determine the effects of a bifidobacteria- containing formula on the healthy human intestinal microbiome during the first year of life.design a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study of new- born infants assigned to a standard whey-based formula containing a total of 107 colony-forming units cfug of bifidobacterium bifidum bifido- bacterium breve bifidobacterium longum b. longum subspecies infantis intervention or to a control formula without bifidobacteria placebo.

of the infants born to secretor mothers 50 were positive for otu1 whereas none of the infants born to nonsecretor mothers n  5 was positive figure 4d.fecal metabolites discriminated between f and f2 at an early agenontargeted metabolomics revealed that metabolite profiles were clearly distinct at neonatal age between b f and f2 infants and they converged over time to reach profiles that were very different from the beginning of the study figure 5a.

at months 7 and 12 metabolites were different between b and f infants but no longer between f and f2.

number of infants n is shown in parentheses below each box plot also applies to the b-diversity data shown in panel a. b exclusively breastfed bf breast- and intervention formula-fed bf2 breast- and placebo formula-fed f formula-fed f interventional formula-fed f2 placebo formula-fed otu operational taxonomic unit.moreover a correlation of metabolites and otus showed that 6 otus were involved in the feeding-specific shaping of the fecal ecosystem at month 1 and therefore contributed to the separation of the feeding groups supplemental table 3. at month 7 no otu- or metabolite-specific profile was observed anymore.

no adverse effects were reported for f and size and weight were similar to that of f2 infants supplemental figure 3.bifidobacteria supplementation did not compensate for differences in gut microbial profiles betweenf and b infantswe first assessed changes in fecal bacterial community structure in response to bifidobacteria-supplemented and placebo formula at months 1 12 and 24 demonstrating that b-diversity1278bazanella et al.figure 1 scheme of participant enrollment and study progress.

of the 106 infants who completed the study 48 were randomly assigned to the group fed interventional formula f and 49 to the group fed placebo formula f2.

from birth to 12 mo of age participants were regularly provided with a control whey- based formula provided by topfer gmbh or an interventional formula control formula plus a total concentration of 107 cfug with equal amounts of bifidobacterium bifidum bf3 bifidobacterium breve br3 bifidobacterium longum subspecies infantis bt1 and b. longum bg7 by a staff member.

of the 106 infants who completed the study 70 were observed at the age of 2 y.differed between b and f infants at months 1 and 12 despite marked interindividual differences figure 2a.

