2014. without a healthy intestinal wall bacteria migrate across the gut into the general310volume 42  number 6novemberdecember 2017circulation increasing systemic inflammation power et al.. this migration occurs through a mechanism of intestinal permeability sometimes referred to as leaky gut power et al.. with leaky gut junctions composed of various pro- teins that link adjacent intestinal epithelial cells are weak and fail to act as an integral barrier to migrating pathogens power et al.. increased intestinal permeability is hypoth- esized to be the mechanism by which a dysbiotic gut is linked with low-grade inflammatory disorders like obesity and its associated conditions insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus mokkala et al.

2010. yet as the pregnancy advances the abundance of gut bacteria associated with inflammatory states increas- es in nearly 70 of women santacruz et al.. the great- est change in the gut microbiota occurs in the ratio of certain key bacteria firmicutes bacteroidetes mimick- ing the higher levels of firmicutes seen in obesity santa- cruz et al.. levels of proinflammatory cytokines includ- ing ifn-y il-2 il-6 and tnf-a also rise in serum adipose and placental tissue later in pregnancy and the mucosal surfaces throughout the gastrointestinal tract re- flect a low-grade inflammatory state cani et al.

normal hormonal metabolic and immunologic changes to the maternal gut microbiome throughout the prenatal period are reviewed including relevant implications for nurses providing care for pregnant women.key words gastrointestinal microbiome maternal health microbiota pregnancy.the maternal gut microbiomeduring pregnancysara m. edwards mn mph cnm solveig a. cunningham phd anne l. dunlop md mph faafp and elizabeth j. corwin phd rn faanhe 100 trillion bacteria that reside in the human intestinal tract referred to as the gutmicrobiota are essential to human metabolism and immunity power o'toole stan- ton ross  fitzgerald 2014 see table 1 for definitions of terms used in this article.the most recent estimate of the ratio of bacteria to human cells in the adult body is approximately 11 sender fuchs  milo 2016. it is also estimated that the genes contained within the human microbiota known as the microbiome are 150-fold greater than those con- tained within the individual human genome power et al.. development of the human gut microbiome begins before birth and proceeds in a systematic manner affected by factors in- cluding maternal oral microbiome mode of birth maternal and infant diet and environmental exposures brown et al.

2014. significant early-life disruptions of the microbiome such as through major illness or exposure to high-dose broad- spectrum antibiotics can lead to chronic disease or mental disorders later in life borre et al.. although the entire gut begins in the mouth and continues to the anus the gut microbiome describes the intestinal portion alone given that the intestine harbors the most diverse and abundant microbial community in the body backhed et al.

2013. development of the microbiome occurs simultaneously with and plays a key role in neurologic system maturation borre et al.

most importantly it collects indi- gestible particles from food into fecal waste and assimilates nutritional particles such as vitamins and minerals mayer savidge  shulman 2014. it acts with the liver to detoxify and excrete xenobiotics ubiquitous harmful foreign chemicals present in the environment mayer savidge et al.

2014. an individual's systemic and intestinal immune systems depend greatly on the gut microbiome's function of epithelial cell renewal and management of intestinal integrity power et al.

2016. high permeabil- ity allows the leakage of bacteria andor bacterial compo- nents like the lipopolysaccharides lps contained in the cell walls of gram-negative bacteria thus inducing a delete- rious systemic inflammatory condition called metabolic endotoxemia cani osto geurts  everard 2012.immunologic changes of the gut microbiome in pregnancyduring pregnancy inflammatory states vary from higherinflammation at implantation and in labor to lower levels of inflammation in midpregnancy trevisanuto et al.

2013. anti-inflammatory properties exist at the placen- tal bed that protects the fetus from rejection yet the mu- cosal surfaces of the gut and other tissues experience a low-grade inflammation with rising levels of proinflam- matory cytokines and white cells as the pregnancy ad- vances koren et al.

2012. when conditions like mater- nal obesity gestational diabetes or a leaky gut shift the maternal inflammatory state from a physiologic to antable 1. definition of termsnovemberdecember 2017mcn311excessive level vascular dysfunction of the placental tis- sue can develop leading to deleterious effects such as fetal growth restriction and preeclampsia kashtanova et al.

2016 kim romero chaemsaithong  kim 2015. gut microbes found in amniotic fluid of women who experi- enced preterm premature rupture of membranes suggest that the gut microbiome could play a role in intrauterine infections digiulio et al.

2010. possible mechanisms of microbial translocation have been proposed either by lps from gram-negative bacteria that increase inflamma- tory mediators and prostaglandin production via as- cending inoculation through the vagina or hematoge- nous spread of microbes from a leaky gut to the placenta or uterus nuriel-ohayon neuman  koren 2016.factors that can modify the gut microbiomethe gut microbiome is also shaped by diet and genetics.the typical western diet consists of excessive processed foods dietary fat and sugars morrison  regnault 2016. this type of diet promotes excess weight gain and a dysbiotic gut and is associated with adverse maternal and child health outcomes dunlop et al.

2015 morri- son  regnault 2016 ma et al.

2014. conversely certain dietary nutrients namely low-fat protein for in- stance beans skinless chicken lean beef organic pro- teins and produce which reduces exposure to dietary antibiotics and pesticides unsaturated fatty acids for instance in canola and olive oils flaxseeds and salmon whole grains and certain strains of probiotics have been found to promote a healthy gut microbiome enhance in- testinal integrity and reduce excessive systemic inflamma- tion griffin 2015 kashtanova et al.

2016. short-chain fatty acids scfa such as acetate propionate and bu-the rise in estrogen and progesterone during pregnancy alters gut function and microbiome composition increasing vulnerability to pathogens.tyrate are byproducts of fiber fermentation called prebi- otics and serve as an energy source to intestinal epithelial cells and enhance the connections between these cells david et al.

