while the identification of human fecal bloom taxa is crucial for studies such as the agp it is unclear and perhaps doubt- ful that a human derived bloom filter and contaminant detection strategy is appropriate for non-human fecal microbiome studies.in addition to obtaining basic information on horse fecal bloom contaminants knowledge of the timing that bloom occurs would be useful to assess the possibility of collecting fecal sam- ples from horses housed in stalls without having to directly observe time of defecation so long as a time-window is known.

being able to identify possible 'bloom' taxa in horse fecal samples would give greater confidence to crowdsourced projects where horse fecal samples can be col- lected at many different locations and processed in a single laboratory using a standard lab protocol avoiding many potential biases.we hypothesized that horse feces would likely undergo shifts in microbial community com- position due to blooms of taxa and further hypothesized that these bloom taxa may not be the same as those found in the agp since the human and horse fecal microbiome have different compositions.

thus the objectives of this study were to examine the technical reproduc- ibility of two collection methods surface fecal pellet sampling vs. homogenized fecal pellet sampling and to investigate the identities and timing of potential bloom taxa in horse fecal samples using ngs.

the main objectives of this study are i examine the technical reproduc- ibility of 16s rrna-based ngs surveys of the horse fecal microbiome using two different sam- pling techniques surface sampling of manure or homogenization of manure ii track the changes in horse fecal microbiome post deposition from fresh to 12 h and identify horse fecal regrowth i.e.

research articlerapid regrowth and detection of microbial contaminants in equine fecal microbiome sampleskalie f. beckers christopher j. schulz gary w. childersdepartment of biological sciences southeastern louisiana university hammond la united states of americaabstractopen accesscitation beckers kf schulz cj childers gw 2017 rapid regrowth and detection of microbial contaminants in equine fecal microbiome samples.

the fecal microbiome of horses has been examined previously however no universal horse fecal collection method and sample pro- cessing procedure has been established.

in this study we examined the effect of sampling the surface of fecal pellets compared to homogenized fecal pellets and also the effect of time of sampling after defecation on 'bloom' taxa bloom taxa refers to microbial taxa that can grow rapidly in horse feces post- defecation using v4 16s rrna amplicon libraries.

one step that can lead to large systematic bias in horse fecal microbiome studies is choice of dna extraction methods which has been shown to alter the ratio of firmicutes and bacteroidetes in equine fecal 16s amplicon libraries  and suitability of dna for pcr and downstream ngs .

we also sought to determine if there is an effect of sampling from the surface of horse fecal pellets vs. homogenizing of fecal pellets with regards to microbial community com- position estimation.

with these data we hope to aid research of the horse fecal microbiome by addressing the effects of sampling and providing a potential method for identifying horse fecal samples that have bloom contamination.materials and methodsall samples collected in this study were collected post-defecation and animals were not housed at southeastern louisiana university or manipulated in any way as part of this research proj- ect including diet or otherwise.

all animals were cared for on private farms and were treated humanely.study sites fecal sample collection and sample storagehorse equus caballus fecal samples were collected from three privately owned farms in southeast louisiana with permission from owners.

the hammond and loranger samples clustered with the initial time points 0 2 and 4 h from the time series samples.16s copy number and bloom taxausing picrust's inferred 16s rrna gene copy numbers otus increasing with time in fecal pel- lets had an average rrna gene copy number of 9.84 - 0.69 while all detected otus in fresh feces had an average of 3.94 - 0.69 copies per genome.in comparison to previously reported horse fecal microbiome studies see supplemental information  for data compiled from other studies our study found bacteroidetes to be the most abundant phylum 34.3. we can find only two other ngs 16s amplicon studies that report bacteroidetes as the most abundant .

relative families associated with shifts in fecal microbiome over time.a p-values adjusted using the benjamini-hochberg proceduresignificant at alpha  0.05 0.01 0.001abundances of bacteroidetes and firmicutes in horse fecal material determined using 16s rrna amplicons has previously been shown to be dna extraction method dependent  and the method reported to recover a greater bacteroidetes percentage in that study mobioheat map and hierarchical clustering of manure piles.

a total of 1440171 sequences were recovered from 65 horse fecal samples yielding a total of 3422 otus at 97 similarity.sampling from either surface or homogenized feces had no effect on diversity and little effect on microbial composition.

sampling at various time points 0 2 4 6 12 h had a sig- nificant effect on both diversity and community composition of fecal samples.

