vaginal microbiota are ordered left to right in descending order of the relative abundance of lactobacillus and women to the left of the dashed lines have lactobacillus as the most abundant genus in their vaginal microbiota proportion listed as the percentage in the grey box c. nsw were significantly more likely p  0.002 to have lactobacillus as the most abundant genus in their vaginal microbiota a as compared to fsw b. pairwise permanova revealed significant differences in the composition b-diversity of the nsw vs. fsw permanova p  0.001 vaginal microbiota a vs. b. nugent score shannon diversity at 6791 reads and menstrual cycle stage are indicated below the taxa bar chart c. none of the women with a nugent score 7-10 had lactobacillus as the most abundant genus in their vaginal microbiota.

none of the l. crispatus or l. gasseri dominant women had nugent scores between 4 and 6 but 4 of the l. iners dominant women had nugent scores between 4 and 6. the proportion of women in each cst was compared by group  and more fsw had highly diverse vaginal microbiota cstiv than nsw p0.001 and l. iners was more prevalent in the vaginal microbiota of nsw than fsw p0.001.non-sex workers have less bacterial diversity in their vaginal microbiota than sex workers.

csti consisted of women who were l. crispatus dominant blue n  767 cstii were women who were l. gasseri dominant purple n  267 cstiii were l. iners dominant yellow n  1067 and cstiv was women with highly diverse vaginal microbiota green n  4867. all of the women with nugent scores 7-10 dark blue clustered together in the most diverse cst regardless of which group nsw or fsw they belonged to.

none of the women with a nugent score 7-10 had lactobacillus as the most abundant genus in their vaginal microbiota .vaginal microbiota cluster by relative abundance of lactobacillusprinciple coordinate analysis pcoa  was performed to determine if vaginal microbiota clustered by group  relative abundance of lactobacillus  nugent score   or menstrual cycle phase .

unsu- pervised clustering revealed the vaginal microbiota of nsw and fsw did not cluster indepen- dently but clustered by cst as previously reported .lactobacillus iners is prevalent in non-sex workers while high diversity is prevalent in sex workerscsti consisted of women with l. crispatus dominant vaginal microbiota n  767 cstii were l. gasseri dominant n  267 cstiii were l. iners dominant n  1067 and cstiv had highly diverse vaginal microbiota n  4867 .

this may in part explain the low concordance rate 44 1841 complete agreement between 16s and nugent scoring in fsw a group in which 85.4 of women were found to have vaginal microbiota belonging to cstiv high diversity.discussionhere we demonstrate that the vaginal microbiota of nsw is less rich in bacterial species and diversity than the vaginal microbiota of fsw.

thus this study demonstrating that fsw have increased diversity of the vaginal microbiota and decreased abundance of lactobacilli indicates the possibility that diversity of the microbiota may confer additional risk of sti acquisition in these women who are already at a high-risk .additionally we found microbial diversity is consistently high in the vaginal microbiota of fsw regardless of nugent score.

although high-risk sexual behaviour increases risk for stis the vaginal microbiota of sex workers is understudied.methodsa retrospective cross-sectional study was conducted comparing vaginal microbiota of women who are not engaged in sex work non-sex worker controls nsw n  19 and women engaged in sex work female sex workers fsw n  48 using illumina sequencing 16s rrna v3 region.resultsbacterial richness and diversity were significantly less in controls than fsw.

in contrast to african women the most common profile of vaginal microbiota in caucasian women tends to be the l. crispatus dominant vaginal microbiota   which has been associated with stability of the vaginal microflora .

the 16s and bacterial proportion of women with lactobacillus dominant or highly diverse vaginal microbiota by nugent score and proportion of women in each community state type by group.cst community state typefsw female sex workersnsw non-sex workersmorphotypes were considered to be in complete agreement if the top 5 genera obtained by 16s sequencing included all organisms viewed by microscopy agreement column .when all women were considered there was 49 complete agreement between bacterial mor- photypes as assessed by nugent score and the top 5 16s bacterial genera.

previous studies showed that vaginal microbiota dominant in l. iners tend to be more prevalent in african women and women of african descent - including those who are hiv   and here we find this community state type to be more prevalent in kenyan women who are not engaged in sex work.

when all 67 women were included in the analysis we found women with nugent scores of 4-6 had greater diversity than women with nugent scores of 0-3 2.502-0.18 vs. 1.686-0.23 n  22 33 respec- tively p  0.0067  and there was no difference between women with nugent scores 4-6 as compared to 7-10 n  12 as previously reported .

controls were more likely to have lactobacillus as the most abundant genus 58 vs. 17 p  0.002 and composition of their vaginal microbiota differed from fsw permanova p  0.001. six microbiota clusters were detected including a high diversity cluster with three sub-clusters and 55 of women with low nugent scores fell within this cluster.

these data indicate that in this specific and understudied group of women fsw with nugent scores 7-10 tend to have high diversity of the vaginal microbiota but that fsw with high microbial diversity in their vaginal microbiota do not nec- essarily have elevated nugent scores.

this will be useful as diversity of the fsw vaginal microbiota might affect their susceptibility to stis.in our cohort of kenyan women we identified six distinct vaginal microbiota clusters.

