the development of the microbiome begins in utero however factors related to the labor and birth environment have been shown to influence the initial colonization process of the newborn microbiome.

2014. cesarean320volume 42  number 6novemberdecember 2017newborns born via cesarean tend to have a gut microbiome less similar to that of their mother compared with those born vaginally microbes are more likely to include skin and oral microbiota as well as bacteria from operating room environments.birth results in a gut microbiome that is less similar to that of the mother compared with vaginal birth backhed et al.

although the relationships between the microbiome and health outcomes are not yet fully understood nurses are unique- ly positioned to provide evidence-based supportive care during labor birth and postpartum as well as provide education to mothers and their families about the adop- tion of health behaviors that may potentially promote healthy initial interactions between the maternal-child microbiome.

several nursing care procedures that con- serve the microbiome are already followed and should be further promoted including protecting the first hour after birth for uninterrupted skin-to-skin care and ini- tiation of breastfeeding crenshaw 2014. as research clarifies the relationships between the microbiome and the relationship to maternal-child health outcomes further recommendations can be made to advance practice for women and their newborns.

1.5 ancc contact hoursabstractthe human microbiome plays a role in maintaining health but is also thought to attenuate and exacerbate risk factors for adverse maternal-child health outcomes.

studies have shown that there are distinct differences in the microbiome profiles of newborns born vaginally compared with those born by cesarean.

antibiotic exposure has been shown to alter the microbial profiles of women and may influence the gut microbial profiles of their newborns.considering that the first major microbial colonization occurs at birth it is essential that labor and birth nurses be aware of factors that may alter the composition of the microbiome during the labor and birth process.

the implications of various activities and factors unique to the labor and birth environment that may influence the microbiome of women and newborns during the labor and birth process e.g.

the collective genomes of these microbes are known as the microbiome.

2015. medicalization of birth in many developed nations has changed the quality and quantity of contact between mothers and babies altering this initial microbiome composition and formation backhed et al.

route of birth vaginal exam frequency antibiotic use that may influence the mater- nal and newborn microbiome and identify relevant practice implications and consider- ations for labor and birth nurses is presented.318volume 42  number 6novemberdecember 2017table 1. definitions of commonly used termsprenatal considerationscolonization and establishment of the newborn microbi- ome is a process that likely begins prior to birth as microbes have been isolated from the placenta fetal membranes amniotic fluid and umbilical cord blood aagaard et al.

al- though the presence of bacteria in the intrauterine envi- ronment has traditionally been associated with perinatal complications such as preterm birth gregory 2011 fu- ture research is needed to explore the function of this newly discovered microbiome its role in perinatal health processes and the initial establishment of the newborn microbiome.the mechanisms by which bacteria translocate into the intrauterine cavity are not yet clear.

further research is needed to explore a potential prenatal maternal-fetal exchange of microbes.the gut and vaginal microbiomes are the primary sources from which the initial transfer of microbes to the newborn is likely to occur and research suggests that pregnancy may influence these maternal microbi- ome environments nuriel-ohayon neuman  koren 2016. a recent study of 24 pregnant women between 18 and 40 weeks sought to characterize the composition and dynamics of the vaginal microbiome during preg- nancy and found that species diversity and richness de- creased throughout pregnancy with an overall domi- nance of lactobacillus species as well as clostridiales bacteroidales and actinomycetales orders aagaard et al.

much more research however is needed to understand the physiologic role of microbes during gesta- tion and its impact on nursing care practices for women and newborns.implications of route of birthvaginal birth remains the most common method of birth and is achieved by 68 of women in the united states martin hamilton osterman driscoll  mathews 2017. the vaginal microbiome is a mutualistic environ- ment of organisms depending on environmental condi- tions and host factors that promote homeostasis in the vagina and inhibiting growth of bacteria that have been associated with preterm labor and chorioamnionitis hy- man et al.

a vaginal microbiome with a higher ph and greater diversity of anaerobic species also contributes to a higher incidence of sexually transmitted infections and growth of other organisms associated with adverse pregnancy out- comes including preterm birth dunlop et al.

