b a stepwise linear regression analysis for predicting a change of updrs scores in 2 years using the counts of 10 bacterial groupsgenera species at year 0 yielded the plotted prediction model which is comprised of the counts of bifidobacterium standardized b  -0.45 p  0.05 and atopobium cluster standardized b  0.50 p  0.01. c d correlation between a change of updrs i scores in 2 years and the count of bifidobacterium at year 0 c and the count of b. fragilis group at year 0 d. e correlation between a change of thought disorder scores item 2 in updrs i in 2 years and the count of bifidobacterium at year 0. f correlation between a change of motivationinitiative scores item 4 in updrs i in 2 years and the count of b. fragilis group at year 0. g h correlation between a change of lbp concentrations in 2 years and the count of l. brevis at year 0 g and the count of l. plantarum at year 0 h. b c d e and f pearson's correlation coefficients r are indicated with respective p-values.7 bacteria that were decreased in the stable group prevotella became lower in 2 years  and.correlations between the bacterial counts at year 0 and the progression of clinical symptoms in 2 yearswe predicted a change of total updrs scores in 2 years using fecal bacterial counts at year 0 using multiple linear regression models with stepwise selection.

bmi body mass index updrs unified parkinson's disease rating scale smell score of the odor stick identification test for the japanese osit-j hy the hoehn and yahr scale mmse mini mental state examination moca-j the japanese version of the montreal cognitive assessment fab the frontal assessment battery at bedside led levodopa-equivalent dose and lbp lipopolysaccharide-binding protein.bacterial counts between the deteriorated and stable groupsthe detection rate of each bacterium was not different between the deteriorated and stable groups at years 0 and 2. similarly there was no difference in total fecal bacterial counts between the 2 groups at years 0 and 2. the deteriorated group had lower bifidobacterium counts q  0.05 fdr correction than the stable group at year 0  suggesting that lower counts of bifidobacterium at year 0 may be predictive of progression of pd in 2 years.bacterial counts between years 0 and 2total fecal bacterial counts were decreased in 2 years in all pd patients as well as in both the deteriorated and stable groups and .

total updrs scores were higher in the deteriorated group than the stable group even at year 0 p  0.05. the dif- ference in updrs scores between the 2 groups became more prominent at year 2 p  0.01. gender age duration and hy were not different between the 2 groups at year 0. the ratios of patients with habitual consumption of fermented milk were not different between the 2 groups at years 0 and 2. mmse moca-j and fab were not different between the 2 groups at years 0 and 2. similarly serum lbp levels were not different between the 2 groups at years 0 and 2.led tended to increase in two years in both groups but without statistical significance.clinical and laboratory features comparison between years 0 and 2we next compared clinical features and serum lbp levels between years 0 and 2 in the deterio- rated and stable groups .

lack of change in the severity of constipation in 2 years in both groups  may be correlated with lack of change in the counts of lactobacillus.retrospective analysis of intestinal microbiota at year 0 revealed that the deteriorated group had a lower count of bifidobacterium compared to the stable group  although we pre- viously reported no difference between pd patients and healthy cohabitants at year 0 .similar to c. leptum subgroup and b. fragilis group stated above the bifidobacterium counts at year 2 were not different between the deteriorated and stable groups .

the yakultwe previously reported gut dysbiosis in patients with parkinson's disease pd.objectivethe aim of this study is to examine whether gut dysbiosis correlates with the progression of pd.methodswe examined changes in gut microbiota and demographic features in 2 years in 36 pd patients.resultsa change of total updrs scores in 2 years was predicted by the counts of bifidobacterium and atopobium cluster at year 0 with a correlation coefficient of 0.52. correlation analysis additionally revealed that low counts of bifidobacterium and bacteroides fragilis at year 0 were associated with worsening of updrs i scores in 2 years.

among the 3 bacteria that were low in pd in our previous study  the counts of c. leptum subgroup and b. fragilis group were further decreased in 2 years in the stable group but not in the deteriorated group.

one possibility is that there are lower plateau levels for these 2 bacteria and that the deteriorated group might have already come close to the plateau levels at year 0. alternative possibility is that the counts of c. leptum sub- group and b. fragilis group were indeed decreased in both groups but statistical significancewas observed only in the stable group by chance.

the deteriorated group had lower counts of bifidobacterium b. fragilis and clostridium leptium than the stable group at year 0 but not at year 2 suggesting that the deteriorated group may demonstrate accelerated lowering of these bacteria at year 0.conclusionsthe total counts of intestinal bacterial decrease in the course of pd progression.

we previously reported that the counts of c. coccoides group c. lep- tum subgroup and b. fragilis group were lower in pd patients than healthy cohabitants .the counts of bacteroides were also low in pd in germany  china  and russia  but not in finland  or the usa  and high in the usa .

p-value was first calculated by wilcoxon signed-rank test and was corrected by the benjamini and hochberg method to calculate the false discovery rate fdr q-value.athe counts of the three bacterial groupssubgroups were significantly lower at year 0 in pd patients compared to controls .bthe counts of total lactobacillus was significantly higher at year 0 in pd patients compared to controls .cfor comparison of total fecal bacterial counts p-value not q-value is indicated.revealed that worsening of thought disorder item 2 in updrs i representing hallucinations and delusions had a negative correlation with the count of bifidobacterium r  -0.56 p  0.01 .

higher total updrs scores and higher leds even at year 0 in the deteriorated group suggest that the deteriorated group already had advanced pd pathology at year 0. as the disease duration was rather shorter in the deteriorated group the deteriorated group might have had accelerated pd pathology from the beginning.

similar to c. leptum subgroup and b. fragilis group which were decreased in the stable group the count of c. coccoides group was also decreased in the stable group but without statistical significance.

in the stable group the counts of 7 bac- teria bifidobacterium clostridium leptum subgroup bacteroides fragilis group atopobium cluster enterococcus l. gasseri subgroup and lactobacillus reuteri subgroup became lower in 2 years and.

in 7 other patients patients' family could not access the patients' stools because they were admitted to nursing homes.clinical assessmentsat years 0 and 2 the severities of pd were assessed using the hoehn and yahr scale hy  the unified parkinson's disease rating scale updrs parts i-iv  the mini mental sate examination mmse  the japanese version of the montreal cognitive assessment moca-j  the frontal assessment battery at bedside fab  and the odor stick identification test for the japanese osit-j .

similarly worsening of motivationinitiative scores item 4 in updrs i had a negative correlation with the count of b. fragilis group r  -0.38 p  0.05 .correlations between the bacterial counts at year 0 and the change of serum lbp levels in 2 yearsin order to examine whether bacterial counts at year 0 are able to predict up- or down-regula- tion of serum lbp levels in 2 years we analyzed correlations between the two factors.

