The mice were then randomly divided into four groups n  10 per group and supplied a control liquid diet control group CON a 4 wv ethanol-containing liquid diet ethanol group EtOH a 4 wv ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.2 gL LPPE low-dose LPPE-supplemented group EtOHL-LPPE or a 4 wv ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 gL LPPE high-dose LPPE-supplemented group EtOHH-LPPE for 8 weeks.

Moreover ZO-1 mRNA level of EtOHH-LPPE group was 1.41-fold higher than that of EtOHL-LPPE group p  0.05.Ethanol intake had no significant effect on the mRNA levels of mucus protecting proteins mucin 1 Muc1 mucin 2 Muc2and ecto-5'-nucleotidase CD73 in the small intestine compared with the CON group p  0.05 .

2012 6 2091- 2106.Harmsen H. J. M. Wildeboer-Veloo A. C. M. Grijpstra J. Knol J. Degener J. E. Welling G. W. Development of 16S rRNA-Based probes for the coriobacterium group and the atopobium cluster and their application for enumeration of Coriobacteriaceae in human feces from volunteers of different age groups.

In addition it should be pointed out that humans metabolize flavanols differently than mice or rats and the gut microbiome is involved in these differences.Humans also have a microbiota different from rodents.Although we have found the benefit of LPPE on gut microbiome is an important reason for its hepatoprotection in alcohol-fed mice more studies are needed to determine whether the hepatoprotection can shift to human.In summary the ameliorative effect of LPPE on alcoholic liverinjury in mice dose-dependently was associated with the prevention of intestinal microbiota dysbiosis and intestinal barrier dysfunction the inactivation of the endotoxin-TLR4-NF- kB pathway and the subsequent repression of inflammation in the liver.

Data with different superscripts indicate significant differences p  0.05.and protein levels of CD14 and TLR4 were found in the EtOH group compared with those in the CON group p  0.05.

The inflammatory response induced by the imbalance of the gut-liver axis plays an important role in the initiation and development of alcoholic liver injury.-Accumulating studies have revealed that intestinal microbiota dysbiosis and barrier dysfunction are common in patients and animals with alcohol-induced liver injury.- Chronic alcohol consumption causes intestinal microbiota dysbiosis which results in the dysfunction of the intestinalfinally induce the activation of nuclear factor-kB NF-kB.NF- kB regulates the expression of inflammatory factors such as tumor necrosis factor-a TNF-a which in turn triggers liver inflammation.Therefore the endotoxin-TLR4-NF-kB path- way is a bridge linking intestinal microbiota intestinal barrier and liver inflammation.

Therefore the present study for the first time demonstrated the beneficial effect of phenolics on the link between intestinal microbiota intestinal barrier and hepatic inflammation in alcohol-fed animals.The intestinal microbiota is a potential important target and anactor involved in the intestinal barrier alteration upon alcohol intake.

Also consistent with our findings the consumption of flavanol- enriched mango pulp and red wine polyphenols contributes to health by promoting the recovery of intestinal microbiota in animals consistent with our findings.On the basis of our results the inhibition of intestinal microbiota dysbiosis may be a key mechanism involved in the protective effects of LPPE against ethanol-induced liver injury.Intestinal microbiota dysbiosis induces dysfunction of the intestinal barrier which subsequently increases the levels of circulating endotoxins.-A prominent feature of alcohol abuseis the dysfunction of the intestinal barrier.

CON mice fed a control liquid diet EtOH mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet EtOHL-LPPE mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.2 gL LPPE and EtOHH-LPPE mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 gL LPPE.Figure 1.

CON mice fed a control liquid diet EtOH mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet EtOHL-LPPE mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.2 gL LPPE and EtOHH-LPPE mice fed an ethanol-containing liquid diet supplemented with 0.4 gL LPPE.

