ii tuning adaptive immunity and systemic responses scfas segmented filamentous bacteria and polysaccharide a. intestinal bacteria are represented in green pathogenic bacteria are represented in red and host cells are represented in yellow.

in this review we focus on recent studies that have characterized the biochemical mechanisms by which intestinal bacteria interact with other bacteria and host pathways to restrict pathogen infection.

ex vivo v. cholerae uses its t6ss to deliver antimicrobial effectors to intestinal bacteria such as e. coli and salmonella  and self-immunity to this secretion system is required for robust intestinal colonization suggesting that v. cholerae uses its t6ss in vivo .interference with 287tddifpathogen virulencein addition to restricting pathogen colonization and proliferation intestinal bacteria can also directly affect pathogen virulence mechanisms.

this raises the possibility that intestinal bacteria adhered to the mucosa could potentially inhibit shigella invasion by consuming local oxygen.intestinal bacteria may also alter the pool of available host-derived nutrients to affect pathogen virulence.

host epithelial cells may also engage bacterial quorum sensing pathways to affect intestinal bacteria as epithelial cells have been shown to produce a partially functional ai-2 mimic in vitro .host 289tddifmodulationin addition to interbacterial interactions that influence pathogen fitness and overall microbiota composition intestinal bacteria can also directly affect host susceptibility to infection by regulating epithelial barrier function as well as innate and adaptive immunity b. modulation of epithelial barrier function can limit pathogen access to relevant host cell types while activation of other innate and adaptive immune mechanisms can result in direct killing of microbes or pathogen tolerance locally or systemically.recognition of microbial-associated molecular patterns mamps by both intestinal epithelial cells and lymphoid cells is required for proper immune system development and response to microbial pathogens .

for example a-defensins and cathelicidins are broad-spectrum antimicrobials that form mem- brane pores to kill bacteria while regiii c-type lectins bind peptidoglycan prior to pore formation and therefore preferentially target gram-positive bacteria .

advances in our understanding of specific bacterial genes and molecules have revealed a diversity of interbacterial interactions and immunomod- ulatory roles for intestinal bacteria that influence pathogen fitness and host response to infection .

in this section we discuss recently described mechanisms by which intestinal bacteria directly restrict enteric pathogens a. inhibition of pathogen growth can occur through resource competition as well as through direct bactericidal mechanisms.

enterobacteriaceae is a large family of gram-negative bacteria that includes commensal species as well as several intestinal pathogens including salmonella shigella yersinia citrobacter and enteropathogenic escherichia coli.

because iron is an essential and limiting nutrient many intestinal bacteria produce iron-chelating siderophores to increase iron uptake.

in this context probiotic e. coli nissle 1917 which expresses four iron uptake systems that are resistant to lipocalin-2 competitively reduces salmonella colonization and subsequent inflammation .many pathogens generate a distinct niche as a strategy to avoid competition with intestinal bacteria and gain access to nutrients.

in a simplistic sense adhesion to the surface of intestinal epithelial cells or invasion into host cells could be viewed as a means to evade competing intestinal bacteria.

for example salmonella-induced intestinal inflammation leads to the generation of tetrathionate by host epithelial cells.table 1. biochemical mechanisms by which intestinal bacterial species and factors affect host susceptibility to enteric pathogensabbreviations dss dextran sulfate sodium gpr43 g-protein-coupled receptor 43 mr1 mhc-related protein 1 nlrp6 nod-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 6 scfa short-chain fatty acid tcr t cell receptor tlr2 toll-like receptor 2.tetrathionate respiration by salmonella confers a growth advantage over other intestinal bacteria that rely on fermentation .

whether proliferation of nitrate-utilizing e. coli species contributes to other pathogenesis mechanisms however is unclear.alimit pathogen growthbinhibit virulence mechanismsii modulate adaptive immunity and systemic responsesfigure 1. general mechanisms of pathogen restriction by intestinal bacteria.

in the case of c. difficile infection antibiotic treatment results in increases in both succinate and sialic acid  which are utilized by c. difficile to enhance intestinal colonization.direct 285tddifbacterial warfare beyond metabolic competition intestinal bacteria can limit the growth of other bacterial species through the production of antibacterial compounds and inhibitory metabolites as well as through contact-dependent killing.

