Based on the maximum temperature threshold limit it reaches during the fermentation process Daqu is usually classified into three types low-temperature Daqu 45 to 50degC medium- temperature Daqu MT to Daqu 50 to 60degC and high-temperature Daqu 60 to 65degC .

A Bacterial community succession from day 0 to day 4 B bacterial community succession from day 4 to day 12 C fungal community succession from day 0 to day 4 and D fungal community succession from day 4 to day 12.

Meanwhile microbial metabolites formed during the fermentation process of Daqu may be further converted as intermediates of end flavor components in the baijiu fermentation or dissolve in the final product which is referred to in practice as Daqu aroma .The industrial Daqu production process usually involves four stages i watering grinding and mixing of raw materials e.g.

Temperature dynamics significantly correlated P  0.05 with the quick succession of MT-Daqu microbiota in the first 12 d of fermentation while the community structure was rela- tively stable after 12 d. Then we explored the effect of temperature on the MT- Daqu community assembly.

In the third stage of the Daqu production process once the temperature of Daqu bricks reaches a threshold limit craftsmen open the windows of the fermentation room to improve its ventilation.

The results confirmed that the bio-heat produced within Daqu bricks was associated with the composition and function of Daqu microbiota.

Further studies are needed to explore the effects of other intrinsic and extrinsic factors and their interactive effects on the shaping of functional Daqu microbiota.To conclude our study revealed that bio-heat was produced within Daqu bricks in the first 4 d of fermentation concomitant with rapid microbial propagation.

For evaluating the activity and quality of Daqu samples the activities of amylase liquefying power and glucoamylase saccharifying power were determined according to the general methods of analysis for Daqu .

The patterns of microbial community succession and flavor formation are highly similar among batches yet the mechanisms promoting temporal succession in the Daqu microbial ecology remain unclear.

Here we first correlated temporal profiles of microbial community succession with environmental variables temperature moisture and titratable acid- ity in medium temperature Daqu MT-Daqu throughout fermentation.

