finally using programmable prions more complex synthetic devices or memories could be engineered.428 cell systems 5 november 22 2017 a 2017 published by elsevier inc.cell systemscell systems calltoward living fabrication of structured materialsyangxiaolu cao and lingchong you duke universityprinciplesnature is a master in fabricating structured materials consisting of living and non-living components from the bottom up but such processes are not readily programmable.

a fundamental bottleneck is the still-limited capability of programming more-sophisticated spatial patterns in a predictable manner using gene circuits.integrative thinking of gene circuits and their hoststing lu university of illinois at urbana- champaignprinciplessynthetic gene circuits are programmed to create various novel functions in living sys- tems.

cell systemscell systems callprinciples of systems biology no.

these modules may be used for building more complex signal-processing systems and the two-layer design strategy enables assembly of 3d structured materials that have well-defined physical and chemical properties.a fundamental bottleneck is the still-limited capability of programming more-sophis- ticated spatial patterns in a predictable manner using gene circuits.what's nextour work opens up several future possibil- ities in fundamental engineering design and potential applications.

in addition this circuit platform has the poten- tial to be adapted to study tumor immu- nology and to treat other type of diseases that require highly specific and localized immunomodulation.cell systems 5 november 22 2017 429cell systemscell systems callwatching the dynamics of evolution over 60000 generationsbenjamin h. good university of california berkeley michael m. desai harvard universityprinciplesevolution can be difficult to observe directly over long timescales.

the next stage of experimentation will be to prog- ress from anatomy to physiology.430 cell systems 5 november 22 2017

cell pub- lished online october 19 2017.  this trojan horse-like approach has the potential to overcome key limitations in current immuno- therapies such as non-specific targeting of normal cells tumor-mediated immunosup- pression and toxicities due to the systemic delivery of immunomodulators.

since each bacterium has the gene circuit which contains all the information to grow into the final structure the living material could potentially be self-curing.

our fabrication process is modular and scalable by design allowing many potential applications by plugging in different non-living materials or pattern- forming gene circuits.

allosteric enzymes motors biosen- sors it will be essential to design systems that are able to adopt all the necessary conformational states on functionally rele- vant timescales.

protein aggregation can participate in normal cell function or pathological dis- ease and neither role is well understood.

cell 171 966-979. we applied it to yeast prions which can aggregate to form conformation-based elements of inheri- tance.

we envision ytrap will be ported to other cell types and even transgenic animals for live tracking of aggregation in situ.

we call this mecha- nism of cell death induced by granzymes in multiple microbial species microptosis dotiwala et al.

cell published online october 26 2017.

