The richness of these bacterial communities was also significantly different between age groups Kruskal-Wallis Test P  0.02 with richness rising with age but age groups did not differ sig- nificantly in diversity.

The richness of these bacterial communities was also significantly different between age groups Kruskal-Wallis Test P  0.01 with richness rising with age but age groups did not differ sig- nificantly in diversity.

The 30 month age group clustered sig- nificantly separately from both the 2 day age group AMOVA p  0.045 and the 3 week age group AMOVA p  0.031 however the 2 day and 3 week samples did not cluster signifi- cantly separately from one another.After Pseudomonas removal the most common bacterial OTUs found on average in BAL fluid samples were Lactobacillus 7.4 Turicibacter 6.6 Achromobacter 5.2 Methylo- bacterium 4.8 SMB53 4.7 and Lactobacillus 4.3 .

No OTUs were found to be significantly indicative of samples from the 2 day or 3 week age groups.DiscussionThis is the first published study to compare the microbiota at multiple respiratory sites of chickens from different age groups using 16S rRNA gene analysis.

DNA extraction kit reagent controls are labelled as Extraction control n. PBS controls are labelled as n control PBS where n is the chicken sampled immediately after the control sample was taken.variation in the bacterial communities isolated from the BAL fluid of different birds both between age groups and within age groups.

Despite this after Pseudomonas was removed from our analysis the oldest age group did cluster significantly separately from the other age groups by its bacterial community structure.

In this study we characterise and compare buccal nasal and lung microbiota samples from chickens in three different age groups using 16S rRNA gene analysis.

We also found significant differences in the composition richness and diversity of the bacte- rial communities in buccal nasal and BAL fluid samples between age groups.

The birds in this study were 2 days n  5 3 weeks n  5 and 30 months n  6 of age and all birds were considered healthy by physical examination.

Richness and diversity of bacterial communities in different sample types.Heatmap of buccal swab samples grouped by animal age.

