the study was ter- minated owing to futility after only 30 patients were random- ized with 58 of the vancomycin-only group remaining rcdi-free compared with 44 in the fmt group.the study by hota et al9 contrasts with much of the fmt literature including the current study by kao et al6 and prior rcts which have shown a beneficial effect.

other rcts that included patients receiving aprolonged course of suppressive vancomycin did not have a non-fmt group1213 and as hota et al9 noted it is not known what proportion of patients would have been symptom-free had their antibiotics been simply discontinued.underscoring the importance of timing relative to fmt is a trial by kelly et al.14 this double-blind randomized placebo- controlled trial compared fmt from healthy donors with the pa- tients' stool given as a placebo administered by colonoscopy.

buffie et al19 showed that a consortia of bacteria capable of metabolizing primary to secondary bile acids were protective in a murine model.19 trials using defined microbial consortia have begun in the clini- cal setting.20what should clinicians conclude from these contradic- tory data regarding fmt for cdi placing the trial by kao et al6 into the above context underscores the importance of further research about the optimal timing and format of fmt as well as the role for rational design of defined microbial consortia.

options to reduce the risk of additional recurrence include ex- tended courses of vancomycin5 probiotics or fermented foods such as kefir antibiotic chasers short courses at the end of therapy after initial treatment is complete with fidaxomicin or rifaximin or anti-toxin monoclonal antibody therapy.4 fecal microbiota transplantation fmt is an increasingly common treatment to address rcdi but widespread adoption is limited in part by the logistics of delivering the stool product.in this issue of jama kao et al6 present the results of a ran- domized clinical trial rct in 116 patients with rcdi to de- termine whether fmt delivered via fecal capsules n  57 pa- tients was noninferior to fmt delivered via colonoscopy n  59 patients.

in the study by kao et al6 participants in the capsule and colonoscopy groups had a mean duration of rcdi prior to fmt of 3.9 and 4.6 months respectively after their original treatment had ended.6 many pa- tients also received vancomycin formost of the period fromthe end of treatment to randomization.

in contrast a single-center study by hota et al9 evaluating fmt for acute rcdi compared 14 days of vancomycin followed by fmt with a 6-week taper of vancomycin a more conventional treatment.9 this open-label rct used a 11 allocation between treatment groups and the primary end point was rcdi within 120 days.

the stool-derived purified spore product ser-109 was associated with reduced risk of rcdi in a phase 1b trial suggesting only the spore fraction of the mi- crobiota may be necessary.15in another approach ott et al16 conducted fmt using ster- ile fecal filtrates that did not contain any bacteria and success- fully treated 5 patients with cdi who remained symptom free after 6 months of follow-up.16 although no bacteria were trans- ferred patients demonstrated increases in microbial diver- sity as well as changes in the relative abundance of specific taxa.

no other disclosures were reported.referenceslessa fc mu y bamberg wm et al.

burden of clostridium difficile infection in the united states..deshpande a pasupuleti v thota p et al.

.zimlichman e henderson d tamir o et al.

.kao d roach b silva m et al.

.seekatz am aas j gessert ce et al.

.hota ss sales v tomlinson g et al.

.van nood e vrieze a nieuwdorp m et al.

.cammarota g masucci l ianiro g et al.

