d average logarithms of total bacterial loads in animals with nec scores 2-4 n  60 and without nec scores 0-1 n  72. bacterial species and strains found in 4 day old rats.1pathogenic only in primates2food-associated bacteriawere the predominant group 57150. each litter had its unique set of bacterial strains except two litters of charles river rats that harbored the same strain of e. coli.

total bacterial loads varied from undetectable to 1011 cfuml the average logarithms of bacterial loads after four days of formula feeding and hypoxia did not differ significantly between animals with or without nec 3.5-0.47 vs. 3.8- 0.51  .

most of the bacterial species identified were likely mammalian commensals with a few environmental saprophytes .previous studies reported association of nec with decreased bacterial diversity -or prevalence of enterobacteriaceae -.

effect of bacterial diversity in nec may depend on the context of specific bacterial populations.

bacterial populations were characterized by plating on blood agar scoring colony classes and identifying each class by sequencing 16s rdna.

introduction of ec25 did not prevent colo- nization with other bacteria and did not significantly alter bacterial diversity.

formula was prepared under sterile conditions and tested for bacterial contamination.

following 2 day incubation at 37c bacterial colonies were classified under 4 x magnifications according to their appearance and numbers in each class were counted.typically colony classes of characteristic shape size color and type of hemolysis were readily distinguishable after two days of growth.

bacterial loads cfuml in tissue homogenates were calculated based on the dilution factor.

shan- non's diversity index sdih0 14 ri141pilnpiwhere pi is proportion of species i in the population and r is number of different species was calculated online at .restriction endonuclease patterns of bacterial dnabacteria grown on blood agar were re-suspended in dna buffer 10 mm tris ph7.5 100 mm nacl 1 mm edta and homogenized by vortexing at full speed with 200 micron glass beads for 5 min.

5 micrograms of bacterial dna were digested with 10 units of the hindiii restriction endonuclease and 20 mgml pancreatic rnase.

bacteria-containing medium was replaced every 2 h to prevent bacterial overgrowth.

for bacterial binding iec-6 cells were washed 3 times with cold dmem collected and homogenized in a dounce homog- enizer.

serially diluted homogenates were plated onto lb agar for bacterial colony counts.binding was expressed as fraction of bound bacteria.

because we intended to examine effects of newly identified bacterial strains in experimental nec plating on blood agar was used both to enumerate bacteria and to isolate pure cultures.

