an exception was the amount of ca which was highest with sw high level of b- glucans pb.05.the highest amounts of the group ii secondary bas lca dca and hdca were exhibited by the group fed sw 191 547 and 256 mg respectively while the group fed hadm revealed the lowest amounts of lca and dca compared with the other test groups and the control.comparison between low- and high-fat dietsthere were significant interactions between the low- and high-fat diets in most groups especially concerning those fed sw and cellulose  .the total amount of bas in the cecum of rats was higher with low- fat diets than with corresponding high-fat diets.

the design of the study resulted in eight groups of rats four fed low-fat and four fed high-fat diets of which six were test diets and two control diets.

the colored marks represent all investigated parameters for each rat where triangles show low-fat diets   low-fat control lf-control  lf- 50hadm  lf-hadm  lf-sw and circles show high-fat diets   high-fat control hf-control  hf-50hadm  hf-hadm  hf-sw. the diets are correlated to the different bas blue stars scfas brown hexagons and gut microbial taxa black boxes.cellulose as from sw and hadm 80 gkg dwb.

concerning the group ii secondary bas lca dca and hdca these were similar or lower with low-fat diets compared with high-fat diets.the levels of specific ba in groups fed low- and high-fat diets are shown in .

the amount of the secondary bas lithocholic- deoxycholic- and hyodexycholic acids was generally higher in groups fed high-fat diets compared with corresponding acids in groups fed low-fat diets pb.05.

in contrast most of the primary and the secondary bas ursodeoxycholic acid and b- and o-muricholic acids were two to five times higher pb.05 in groups fed low-fat diets than in groups fed high-fat diets.

rats fed low-fat diets containing barley were located on the left side of the plot and rats fed high-fat diets and the low-fat cellulose diet were on the right.

hadm diet contained a higher amount of barley flour 481 gkg dwb than sw 299 gkg dwb but the same amount of df which means that this diet contains the highest amount of non-b-glucan df.in the high-fat diets the primary bas ca cdca and a-mca and the group i secondary bas udca b-mca and o-mca were also as in the low-fat groups considerably higher in groups fed 80 g dfkg dwb of hadm and sw compared with the group fed 50 g dfkg dwb 50 hadm and the control .

the levels of these bas were higher in high-fat groups and correlated positively with bacteroides fragilis and nega- tively with clostridium leptum.discussionthe aim of this study was to determine which barley variety and df levels such as b-glucan affect the cecal ba composition in low- and high-fat diets by using a rat model.

this can be a good outcome since for instance udca which was significantly higher with hadm than with other groups fed high-fat diets may suppress the amount of dca which has been reported to belithogenic and cancerogenic .

the total cecum amounts of a- b- and o-mcas were higher when rats were fed diets with a low-fat content than high-fat.

the amount of primary bas cdca and a-mca and b-mca was similar in groups fed 50 hadm low b-glucan content and the control group while the two groups fed the higher amounts of b-glucans and df 80 gkg dwb had higher amounts of these bas pb.05 especially when it comes to a- mca and b-mca which were more than 10-14 times higher than with groups fed 50 hadm and the control.

the objective of the present study was to investigate whether the type and level of fiber had an effect on cecal ba composition when included in low- and high-fat diets.

the two barley varieties hadm and sw were included in low-fat and high-fat diets.

the design of the experiment resulted in six test diets three with low-fat content and three with high-fat content.

