animals remained on gel diet 76a for 12 days during surgical recovery and then were fed a purified control diet cont or antioxidant diet aox  for 16 days.

in contrast to the marked histological inflammation visible in il-10-- cont il-10-- aox prevented goblet cell depletion and epithelial erosion.to investigate inflammatory contribution from lamina propria neutrophils if was performed for myeloperoxidase staining see reference   which was found to be significantly elevated in il-10-- cont compared with wt cont pb.05 and wt aox pb.01 but mitigated in il-10-- aox samples pb.05 compared with il-10-- cont.

interestingly the alpha diversity shannon diversity index was increased after aox diet in both genotypes b indicating the aox diet cultivated greater community membership either directly or through changes in host immune function compared with the cont diet.to explore functional characteristics of these microbial communi- ties the substrate utilization assay - biolog - was performed see reference .

this assay demonstrates that the dietary intake but not host genotype drives microbiota function where wt or il-10-- animals on aox diet cluster together and wt and il-10-- on cont diet cluster more similarly.

there were no mln weight mg g body weight differences in wt animals e. however the mln weights in il- 10-- cont were significantly greater than wt cont pb.01 and il- 10-- aox mln weight were significantly decreased compared with il-10-- cont pb.05.

at baseline il-10-- cont animals had larger spleen weight f compared with wt cont pb.01 and aox mitigated this in il-10-- animals pb.05.mucosal t lymphocyte populationsto characterize changes in cytokines at the cellular level additional experiments were performed for flow cytometry analysis of lamina propria t lymphocytes in il-10-- animals a. compared with il-10-- cont animals il-10-- aox displayed fewer relative percentages of th17 cd45  cd4  rorgt and th1 cd45  cd4  t-bet cells but unchanged levels of treg cd45  cd4  foxp3 b. because t lymphocyte trafficking to the lamina propria is influenced by the lymphocyte integrin ccr9 under the regulation of cd103 dendritic cells we further measured gene expression of these markers in the loop mucosa.

we specially focused on the dietary micronutrients retinoic acid ascorbic acid vitamin e and selenium aox diet as a cocktail to screen for differential responses to diet in the il-10-- host.

using a mucosal inflammatory model that resembles the human condition of ileal pouchitis we investigated the effects of control cont or antioxidant aox diet containing pharmacologically relevant levels of 4 micronutrients on disease risk in wild-type and il-10-- animals following surgical self-filling sf ileal blind loop placement.

the antioxidant diet was identical to cont but with pharmacologically relevant doses of 4 micronutrients retinoic acid vitamin c vitamin e and selenium.

results are n7-10group for all measurements except goblet cell depletion n5-6group.loop mucosal histology and immunofluorescence ifconsistent with our previous report  the sfl mucosa were characterized by short villi lengths and an elongated crypt compart- ment upon he assessment b while il-10-- loops were characterized by epithelial erosion cellular infiltrates and loss of goblet cells pas stain c. compared with wt cont the aox diet enlarged goblet cells but did not alter total goblet cell numbers or gene expression of the mucin glycoprotein muc2 data not shown.

this finding is consistent with the taxonomic characterization where diet drives similar changes in either genotype.conventionalization of germ-free il-10-- mice with loop microbiotafinally to test the role of the microbiome in driving mucosal inflammation the loop microbiota from wt animals fed cont or aox were used to colonize germ-free il-10-- animals .

taxonomy of genera level changes are displayed in reference table 2. results are n7-9group.shown despite marked improvements found in histology assessment b. we therefore next focused on the immune compartment and microbiota structure to explore the mechanism behind improved mucosal injury.in addition to improved histology with aox in il-10-- animals we observed altered mucosal cytokines compared with cont diet.

flow cytometry data are representative of 3 independent experiments each containing n4-6group.elevated the gene expression of ccr9 and cd103 compared with cont diet.

to test this ileal loop microbiota were collected from wt animals fed cont or aox diet and subsequently administered to germ-free il-10-- animals.

this experiment demonstrated that cont microbiota led to more pronounced inflammatory responses including morphometric analysis of the mln and colon and elevated mucosal cytokines in the il-10-- hosts compared with aox microbiota supporting the notion that following aox diet the microbiota directly alters the host immune response.

