366 449-460.Mahon B. P. Bhatt A. Socorro L. Driscoll J. M. Okoh C. Lomelino C. L. Mboge M. Y. Kurian J. J. Tu C. Agbandje- McKenna M. Frost S. C. and McKenna R. 2016 The Structure ofCarbonic Anhydrase IX Is Adapted for Low-pH Catalysis.Biochemistry 55 4642-4653.Pfeiffer J. K. and Virgin H. W. 2016 Viral immunity.

Our goal was to design peptides that would increase the number of interactions with human serpins and improve the antiplaque activity of the peptides in comparison to the number in the original peptide.12 calculated free energy changes associated with single-point mutants to S-7 15 amino acids in RCL peptides of Serp-1 and sought to implement the following criteria in modified peptide design 1 implementing residue substitutions toward the C-terminus facing toward the protein surface of the peptide to minimize potential loss of binding interactions due to steric hindrance of residue side chains in the protein core and 2 increasing the potential for hydrogen bonding interactions in regions that are conserved or semiconserved between each of the human serpins.

286 7027-7032.Schreuder H. A. de Boer B. Dijkema R. Mulders J. Theunissen H. J. M. Grootenhuis P. D. J. and Hol W. G. J.

W. McCoy A. J. Moriarty N. W. Oeffner R. D. Read R. J. Richardson D. C. Richardson J. S. Terwilliger T. C. and Zwart P.H.

One of the most promising of the peptides is S-7 which is derived from RCLresidues 305-319.12 presented the positions of residues associated with S-7 in Serp-1 are shown to form a b-strand at the core of the protein and appear to be predominantly stabilized by main-chain hydrogen bonding.

This is further emphasized when considering that it has been previously reported that S-7 and other RCL peptides bind and inhibit PAI-1 in vitro.12 observation is supported by recent evidence evaluating variants of A1AT whereby the same RCL region can insert into the serpin core forming a stable structure and thus slowing the progression of the disease.45 insertion of S-7 into human serpins translates directly to some of the observed therapeutic effects seen through its administration12 designs B and .Serp-1 PAI-1 and ATIII all share a similar R-P1 group at the P1-P1' scissile bond in the RCL enabling cleavage and binding to the targeted serine proteases e.g.

Kaplan-Meier survival curves for S-7 S-8 and modified S-7 MPS7-8 and -9 peptides in an MHV68-infected IFNgR KO mouse model with suppression of the gut microbiome by antibiotics Abx.

Structures of RCL-derived peptides and modified S-7 peptides shown from N- to C-termini.

Results of Molecular Docking of S-7 MPS7-8 and MPS7-9 into Human SerpinsaPAI-1RCL peptides act as poor thrombin or other coagulation protease inhibitors however it would be of interest to assay these peptides on a wide range of targets.

These coordinates acted as a starting point in determining binding energies of RCL peptides with target proteases.RCL peptides S-7 MPS7-8 and MPS7-9 were modeled as b-strands in inactive with cleaved RCLs forms of PAI-1 PDB entry 1A7C ATIII PDB entry 2B4X and A1AT PDB entry 4PYW to predict binding modes of each peptide for rational peptide design.

