the snp allele state profiles of genetic subgroups targeted for agarose mama design where the derived snp state is shaded and ancestral state is unshaded.adescribed in vogler et al 2011 and vogler et al 2017 bcorresponds to levels indicated in in this study.

given that y. pestis is a re-emerging public health threat in madagascar - and other developing african nations performing snp typing studies through the use of agarose- mama tools could lead to greatly improved epidemiological investigations and to more effec- tive disease management.here we describe how we resolved technological limitations that prevented y. pestis snp genotyping studies at ipm by 1 re-designing a snp-based y. pestis genotyping system from melt-mama real-time platform to agarose-mama to be compatible with existing resources in madagascar and 2 validating these genetic tools at ipm for adoption.

2011 2013 2017.bsnp states are presented according to their orientation in the yp co-92 reference genome d derived snp state a ancestral snp state.cd derived a ancestral c common reverse.dprimer tails and antepenultimateand or penultimate mismatch bases are in lower case.eratios are skewed in some assays.fstandard mgcl2 is 2 mm.gmgcl2 reduced to 1.5 mm at ipm from the standard 2 mm used at nau.hprimer originally published in vogler et al 2013.control.

we assessed the limit of detection of our mama tools on these five human clinical samples by testing them on a new taqman assay designed for the chromosomal 3a gene and .to confirm the specificity of the assays to the y. pestis genome we tested assay performance on dna extracts of bacillus anthracis human dna background and no template waterplos neglected tropical diseases  december 11 201713  19continuedasnp position and naming as published in vogler et al.

popular platforms for snp typing use real-time pcr instruments that employ dual probe taqman assays or melt- mama snp assays -.

black bars indicate the phylogenetic positions of the 18 snps targeted for mama pcr design in this study.to conduct snp studies to obtain bacterial phenotype information such as antibiotic resistance or phylogenetic information to more robustly understand the dynamics of disease transmis- sion and potentially identify sources of human infections.the phylogeny of y. pestis in madagascar has recently expanded  to include more phy- logenetic groups  and the 18 assays developed for this study define a subset of these phy- logenetic groups or lineages as illustrated on a simplified phylogeny .

molecular confir- mation of y. pestis in five clinical samples was based on pcr detection of the pla gene located in a high copy number plasmid pcp1 in addition to positive f1 rdt .snp groupseighteen previously published snps  specific or canonical  for a subset of distinct phylogenetic groups within the y. pestis malagasy phylogeny  were selected as the targets of agarose mama genotyping assays following published guidelines .

research articlelow cost low tech snp genotyping tools for resource-limited areas plague in madagascar as a modelcedar l. mitchell1a voahangy andrianaivoarimanana2 rebecca e. colman1b joseph busch1 heidie hornstra-o'neill1 paul s. keim13 david m. wagner1 minoarisoa rajerison2 dawn n. birdsell11 the pathogen and microbiome institute northern arizona university flagstaff arizona united states of america 2 plague unit institut pasteur de madagascar antananarivo madagascar 3 translational genomics research institute flagstaff arizona united states of americaa current address department of epidemiology gillings school of global public health university of north carolina chapel hill north carolina united states of americab current address department of medicine university of california san diego la jolla california united states of america mrdnb open accesscitation mitchell cl andrianaivoarimanana v colman re busch j hornstra-o'neill h keim ps et al.

2011.dindicates snp determined node vogler et al.

2011.eindicates snp determined node vogler et al.

y. pestis isolates from madagascar used in this study.astrain id in the northern arizona university dna collection.bstrain id from the originating laboratory.cindicates group i or ii as described vogler et al.

the mama primers for each assay were designed to compete for the same snp locus on the template and the resulting amplicon prod- uct is generated by the allele-specific mama primer that most closely matches the template.to differentiate between the amplicon products of the derived and ancestral genotypes additional length was added on the derived amplicon product but not the ancestral product.

however we observed that the gc-clamp on the derived mama primer did frequently confer a competitive advantage over the ancestral mama as previously described for mama tools .

one for- ward primer represents the original snp allele referred to as ancestral and the other repre- sents the mutated snp allele referred to as derived.

electrophoresis was conducted at 300v for 25-30 minutes and viewed under uv transillumination.the genotyping accuracy of our snp assays was validated using positive dna controls that represented known ancestral and derived allele states for each snp target.

