combination of modern imaging techniques and molecular approaches such as generation of stable l-form lines and fluorescently stained l-form cells an array-based tran- scriptomics of parent and l-form cells have been applied in order to better understand l-form conversion and the molecular and genetic changes accompanying this unusual transition.

d-f.native smears with spherical and granular l-form cells in broth l-form cultures from maternal blood samplesb9 b31 and b34 respectively g-i l-form growths after sub-cultivation in semisolid medium.

granularl-form growth of b9 g typical l-form fried eggs colonies of d8 h and d9 i. magnification a b c d f- 1000x g h i - 400x.figure 6. the presence of mycobacterial l-forms in the placentobiome of bcg-vaccinated pregnant women has no an impact on the numbers of resident t cells gd t cells and phospho-reactive vd2 cells.

about 10 of the resident gd t cells are phosphoreactive vd2 cells which is in line with data showing that the majority of the placental gd t cells are vd1.

cd3 cells were analyzed within the lymphocyte gate tcr gd cells - within cd3 t-cell gate and vd2 cells - within gd t-cell gate.statistical analysis.

although vd2 t cells typically comprise 5 of total t cells in adult human blood this population can expand rapidly in response to a wide range of pathogens and is thought to play a key role in human antimicrobial immunity-.

nano-sized vesicles offigure 5. light microscopy of l-form cultures from decidua d and maternal blood samples b. a initial development of l- forms dark granules associated with decidua cells in broth d34.

in correspondence to the light microscopy observations of broth-growing l-form cultures isolated from placenta and cord blood samples tem revealed in depth the polymorphic ultrastructural characteristic of l-form populations and confirmed the absence of any recognizable cell wall-like outer structure.

work on l-forms in cord blood provides food for thought in terms of the safety of the use of cord blood stem cells for bone marrow transplantation.

l-form cultures isolated from maternal blood and early decidua samples resembled those isolated from term placenta and cord blood samples showing the same morphological and growth characteristics.

keeping in mind that l-form cultures were isolated after filtration of broths inoculated with gestational tissue maternal blood or cord blood samples we suggest that very small l-bodies filterable forms are able to pass through pores with 0.2 um size germinate again and to launcha new life l-cycle.

blood samples were aseptically collected using standard technique with a needle that was connected to k2e-edta vacutainer tubes bd vacutainer plymouth uk and a cord blood flowed through the needle into the tube.isolation of l-form cultures.

isolation of l-form cultures from placental decidual cord blood and maternal blood samples was performed according to the pro- tocol described in our previous study.

a graph with raw data ct values of the placenta pl and cord blood cb samples positive for mycobacterial l-forms b graph with raw data ct values of the decidua d and maternal blood b samples positive for mycobacterial l-forms c report from representative pcr run of dna from l-forms colonies derived from term placenta and cord blood samples.

we have recently published data showing that gd t cells are the first pathogen-reactive immune cells developed in the fetus.

