1985. hence communication between nerves and mac- rophages may be indirect potentially via icc that are close to macrophages and are heavily innervated by neu- rons at ap and dmp.in diabetic gastroparesis the close spatial contact between macrophages and icc and up-regulation of ho- 1 in m2 macrophages seems to protect against the loss of icc and nnos in enteric nerves and to protect against gastroparesis choi et al.

hence the ho-1 positivity of cd169pos macrophages may be induced by normal gut microbiota in sham-treated mice.ho-1 is associated with alternative macrophage acti- vation m2 and recently it has been shown that muscu- laris macrophages express wound healing and tissue protective genes m2 whereas lamina propria macro- phages express pro-inflammatory genes m1 gabanyi et al.

2016.it is therefore important to characterize the macro- phage population in muscularis externa further with newer macrophage antibodies that may identify physio- logically important subgroups.in rodents macrophages in muscularis externa of the small intestine are distributed in three layers in the serosa associated with ap and with the deep muscular plexus dmp mikkelsen et al.1985 mikkelsen 1995 2010. osteopetrotic opop mice lack the colony- stimulating factor-1 m-csf-1 yoshida et al.

the anatomical record published by wiley periodicals inc. on behalf of american association of anatomistsresident macrophages have several functions they play a role in development tissue homeostasis and repair in addition to immune responses to pathogens phillips and powley 2012 wynn et al.

indeed others have recently con- firmed that macrophages may play a role in pathological conditions associated with motility disturbances for example inflammation diabetic gastroparesis and post- operative ileus zhao et al.

1990 and subgroups of macrophages are absent wiktor-jedrzejc- zak et al.

1990. we have shown that macrophages in all three layers of the small intestine muscularis are absent in opop mice mikkelsen and thuneberg 1999 mikkelsen et al.

2008 indicating that this macrophage population is m-csf-1-dependent.ionized calcium-binding adaptor molecule 1 iba1 was first demonstrated in microglia resident macrophages in the brain imai et al.

1998 2001. outside the cns iba1 aif-1 has been shown to stain most macrophage subpo- pulations except alveolar macrophages and has there- fore been suggested to be a pan-macrophage marker kohler 2007 defalco et al.

2005. lps was therefore used as a pro-inflammatory activator.the muscularis externa macrophages were originallydemonstrated by light and electron microscopy mikkel- sen et al.

as we have previously shown that a well-defined lps injection scheme in mice gave the highest density of mhcii positive macrophages after 6 hr mikkelsen et al.

bar 50 lm.to verify that these cells belong to the macrophage population we used frozen sections of muscularis externa from control and opop mice the latter have previously been shown to lack macrophages f480pos and mhciipos cells mikkelsen and thuneberg 1999 mikkelsen et al.

in addition both ho-1pos and cd169pos cells were rare at dmp.traditionally macrophages in mouse small intestine muscularis externa have immunophenotypically been considered to consist of an almost homogenous popula- tion mikkelsen et al.

iba1 has mainly been used to stain microglia resident macrophages in the brain imai et al.

2008. the presence of ho-1 in murine small intestine muscularis macrophages in control material has not been demonstrated previously miller et al.

