compared with qpcr ddpcr ex- hibited more sensitive 10-4 ngml or 102 cfuml and less pre-culturing time saving 2 h. moreover ddpcr had stronger resistance to inhibitors than qpcr yet absolute quantification hardly performed when target's concentration over 1 ngml or 106 cfuml.

combined with pcr and fluorescence technique real-time pcr qpcr and digital pcr ddpcr are regarded as suitable tools for detecting foodborne pathogens.

to compare the effect between qpcr and ddpcr in detecting salmonella typhimurium a series of nucleic acid pure strain culture and spiking milk samples were applied and the resistance to inhibitors referred in this article as well.

thus be subjected to ager analysis end-point pcr method has obstacles in quantitative analysis .relying on calculating increment of fluorescence generated by amplified templates instead of agar gel analysis abbreviating the time- consuming to 3 days or less  makes qpcr be widely applied in foodborne pathogens' measurement  .

owning to its superiority qpcr becomes so common in detecting foodborne salmonella typhi- murium  but limitations existing in measuring trace sample or absolute quantification.as the latest generation of pcr and one of the most robust methods in molecular quantification several articles in recent years have re- ported ddpcr in the field of food and drug testing bacteria and viruses monitoring gene modification and clinical diagnosis research  .

compared with qpcr ddpcr has advances in performing absolute quantification procedures without a standard rapid data analysis sensitivity precision and resistance to inhibitors  .

recent articles have demonstrated the sensitivity and precision of ddpcr in the quantitative detection of bacteria in sediment and commercial poultry processing water samples yet its application for the detection of salmonella typhimurium in food samples has so far not di- rectly been defined .to our knowledge several methods have related to qpcr in de-tecting foodborne salmonella spp.

then a series of 10-fold dilution dna concentration ranging from 10 ngml to 10-4 ngml were prepared and each gradient dna sample was analyzed by qpcr and ddpcr .primer and probebased on fimy gene of salmonella spp.

diluted calcium chloride powder sigma aldrich in nuclease-free water or ethanol sinopharm chemical reagent co. ltd was added and the final concentration ranging from 4 mm to 6 mm or 0.5 to 2.5. then each reaction performed qpcr and ddpcr procedure as described above.spiking sampleto prepare spiking milk samples 1 ml of each concentration gra- dient of salmonella typhimurium pure culture added in 24 ml sterile milk.

1. flow chart of this research.resultslod of both platformsgenomic dnato measure and compare lod of two platforms a serial dilution of genomic dna samples extracted from salmonella typhimurium pure culture was both analyzed by qpcr and ddpcr.

the results showed the lowest detecting limit of qpcr reached 10-3 ngml.

compared lod of two platforms ddpcr per- formed lower detecting limitation but may not quantify the target ab- solutely when its concentration over 1 ngml.pure cultureprepared salmonella typhimurium culture samples were measured by qpcr and ddpcr to calculate lod of both platforms.

similar to the results of genomic dna ddpcr exhibited lower lod 102 cfuml than qpcr 103 cfuml but may not perform absolute quantification when strain's concentration over 106 cfuml .

based on linear ana- lysis and calculated standard deviation value we found no significant discrepancy in linearity between qpcr and ddpcr but ddpcr wastable 2lod of two platforms in genomic dna and pure culture of salmonella typhimurium.more stable applied in different samples .

meanwhile standard deviation of ddpcr and qpcr in each concentration gradient reflected no obvious divergence table s1.

