These varying inflammatory responses induced by placental bacteria might be driven by CpG methylation in the placenta which could impact both placen- tal function and fetal well-being.To our knowledge this is among the first studies to assess placental CpG methylation in relation to placenta bacteria.

Presence of microorganisms in the placenta and methylation of CpG probes and associated genes.1 HyperM  Hypermethylated2 HypoM  HypomethylatedIdentification of differentially methylated probes in ELGAN placentas exposed to bacteriaPlacental CpG methylation differences were analyzed within the ELGAN cohort between 84 individuals with or without placental microbes for 377716 CpG probes representing 20418 genes.

For example it has been proposed that oral bacteria can translocate to the placenta by hematogenous transmission .Importantly certain bacteria in the placenta have been associated with deleterious preg- nancy outcomes such as preterm birth .

The probes that displayed differential methylation were unique depending on which bacteria was present .The microbial species that was associated with the greatest number of altered CpG sites was Streptococcus Group B with 1257 differentially methylated CpG probes n  802 genes.

This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.Data Availability Statement All methylation files are available from the GEO database accession number GSE106089.Funding This research was supported by grants from the National Institutes of Health   R01 ES019315 P42ES005948 T32ES007018 1UG3OD023348-01 5U01NS040069-05 and 2R01NS040069 - 06A2.The funders had no role in study design dataRESEARCH ARTICLEMicroorganisms in the human placenta are associated with altered CpG methylation of immune and inflammation-related genesMartha Scott Tomlinson1 Paige A. Bommarito1 Elizabeth M. Martin1 Lisa Smeester1 Raina N. Fichorova2 Andrew B. Onderdonk3 Karl C. K. Kuban4 T. Michael O'Shea5 Rebecca C. Fry11 Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering Gillings School of Global Public Health University of North Carolina Chapel Hill North Carolina United States of America 2 Laboratory of Genital Tract Biology Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital Boston Massachusetts United States of America 3 Department of Pathology Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's Hospital Boston Massachusetts United States of America 4 Division of Pediatric Neurology Department of Pediatrics Boston Medical Center Boston Massachusetts United States of America 5 Department of Pediatrics School of Medicine University of North Carolina Chapel Hill North Carolina United States of AmericaAbstractMicroorganisms in the placenta have been linked to adverse pregnancy outcomes as well as neonatal illness.

To evalu- ate whether the presence of microorganisms is associated with the human placental epigen- ome we integrated data for 16 different microbial species in the placenta with genome-wide CpG methylation levels.

Here we investigated whether placental microbes were associated with altered placental DNA CpG methylation patterns in the ELGAN cohort.

Future research should have a larger sample size and incorporate mRNA and protein expression data along with the CpG methylation data.This study is among the first to investigate the potential effect of placental bacteria on the methylome of the placenta.

Previously it was thought that all bacteria in the placenta orig- inate from infections of the lower genital tract  however a number of studies have found that bacteria in the placenta are derived from vaginotropic non-infectious microflora  .

Gene-Specific location of CpG methylation.Enrichment of biological functions and pathways among the differentially methylated gene setsWe further analyzed whether these differentially methylated probes in the placenta were enriched for four specific biological functions inflammation growthtranscription factors transport andor immune response selected for their known critical functions for fetal devel- opment.

