The apparent degradation of diverse saccharides in the alimentary canal of the model earthworm Lumbricus terrestris is concomitant with the production of diverse organic acids indicating that fermentation is an ongoing process in the earthworm gut.

The fermentative activity of microbes in the alimentary tract are responsible for the in situ production of i organic com- pounds that can be assimilated by the earthworm and ii H2 that is subject to in vivo emission by the earthworm and can be trophically linked to secondary micro- bial events in soils.

As a majorsoil macrofauna earthworm populations can reach extraordinary numbers and up to 2000 individuals per square meter have been documented    a number that could theoretically yield approximately 500 ml earthworm gut content per square meter of soil .

Thus the alimentary canal of the earthworm constitutes an important anoxic microzone in soils that are inhabited by earthworms.Dissimilatory microbial activities in the earthworm gut are dependent in part upon organic-carbon-derived reductant and potential sources of organic carbon include ingested plant material and ingested microbial cells that become ruptured in the cropgizzard      .

In addition to these ingested sources of organic carbon earthworm-produced mucus in the alimentary canal is conceived to be an important source of saccharides and mucus-derived saccharides have been proposed to augment fermentation and denitrification in the alimentary canal of the model earthworm Lumbricus terrestris     and to also facilitate methanogenic food webs in the gut of the CH4-emitting earthworm Eudrilus eugeniae  .Independent of the origin of organic carbon in the alimentary canal diverse saccharides occur in gut contents of L. terrestris and hydrolysis is conceived to increase the availability of these saccharides .

In this regard dietary uptake and thus earthworm feeding guilds likely affect saccharide availability in the gut.Ingested material is presumed to be the primary source of microbes in the earth- worm alimentary canal      and the comparative inactiveness of soil under anoxic conditions  highlights the unique potential of the earthworm gut to augment anaerobic processes in aerated soils a microbe-invertebrate interaction that contributes to the overall turnover dynamics of organic carbon in the terrestrial biosphere.

Future studies focused on specific saccharide-derived fermentation profiles and the associated microbiota along the alimentary canal of different earthworm feeding guilds would provide further insight on microbe-mediated transformation of organic carbon in the earthworm gut activities that are likely interfaced to the utilization of gut-derived nutrients by the earthworm.MATERIALS AND METHODSExperimental setup and earthworms.

MICROBIAL ECOLOGYDifferential Engagement of Fermentative Taxa in Gut Contents of the Earthworm Lumbricus terrestrisAnja B. Meiera Sindy Hungera Harold L. DrakeaaDepartment of Ecological Microbiology University of Bayreuth Bayreuth GermanyABSTRACT The earthworm gut is an anoxic saccharide-rich microzone in aerated soils.

Collectively these results reinforce the likelihood that i different sac- charides stimulate different fermentations in gut contents of the earthworm andii facultative aerobes related to Aeromonadaceae and Enterobacteriaceae can be important drivers of these fermentations.IMPORTANCE The feeding habits of earthworms influence the turnover of elements in the terrestrial biosphere.

The alimentary tract of the earthworm constitutes an an- oxic saccharide-rich microzone in aerated soils that offers ingested microbes a unique opportunity for anaerobic growth.

