a cysteine residue within theagr2 thioredoxin-like domain can react with muc2 to form disulfide bonds and the agr2-deficient mice were found to lack intestinal mucus and muc2 indicating a critical role of agr2 in colonic muc2 formation.46 the oligosaccharide side chains of muc2 are formed by five sugars fucose galactose gal n-acetylgalactosamine galnac n-acetylglucosamine and sialic acid sa.2537 the cellular levels of udp cdp and gdp-activated sugar substrates and the expression lev- els of glycosyl-transferases determine the heterogeneity of glycosylation.47 therefore the involved enzymes and proteins play an important role in the production and secretion of muc2.

the breakdown of intestinal muc2 can be associated with an increased permeability in rats.39 muc2 knockout mice had a diminished mucus barrier and increased the risk to inflammation diarrhea bleeding and rec- tal prolapse which would further induce tumor development at elderly ages.40 therefore the changes in colonic crypt and gob- let cells may have a critical impact on muc2 production and the muc2 abundance indirectly reflect the diet effect on colonic bar- rier.

muc2 is critical for colonic protection and muc2-deficient mice were shown to spontaneously develop colitis.26 although muc2 plays a critical role in the colon little is known about how it responds to dietary fats at a normal dose 4.this study was to investigate how intake of soybean oil lard and fish oil affected the goblet cells and muc2 expression in the colon of middle-aged rats.

tlr2 tlr4 and tlr adaptor protein myeloid differentiation factor myd88 figure 3. the tlr2 mrna level did not differ among the three groups p  0.05 figure 3a while tlr4 and myd88 were down- regulated in both lard-fed and fish-oil-fed rats as compared to the soybean oil diet group with the lowest for the fish-oil-fed rats figure 3b and c. this indicated that both fish oil and lard had a negative impact on the tlrs in the colon.our previous study showed that intake of fish oil for 3 months induced a higher level of inflammation in the colon.9 however the present study did not show significant differences in il-1b il-6 il-10 il-12 nf-kb tnf-a and tgf-b mrna levels p 0.05 figure 4a-g. it indicated that inflammation is a complex process of gradually developing pathology.dietary fats effect could be associated with glycosylation processas shown above the intake of fish oil induced a substantial change in the goblet cell number muc2 level and tlrs abun- dance in the colon of middle-aged rats.

a total of 3907 proteins were identified of which 2438 proteins 62.4 were matched with at least two unique pep- tides supporting information file 1. difference was expressed by fold changes and a p-value cutoff which addressed the reduc- tion in quantitative accuracy from precursor interference associ- ated with tmt labeling.3132 the fold change of protein abun- dance ratio greater than 1.2 and p-value smaller than 0.05 indi- cated a significant difference.fifty-nine proteins were observed different in abundance be- tween the lard and fish oil groups of which 25 proteins were highly abundant in the fish oil group and 34 proteins were highly expressed in the lard group supporting information file 2. twenty-eight proteins showed different abundances between the soybean oil and fish oil groups with 13 proteins highly abundant in the fish oil group and 15 proteins higher in the soybean oil group figure 5a b supporting information file 3.kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes analysis of dif- ferentially expressed proteins revealed 13 differentially enriched pathways of which fructosemannose metabolism and amino sugarnucleotide sugar metabolism were thought to be closely related to glycosylation figure 5c.

y. lam a. j. mitchell a. j. holmes g. s. denyer a. gummessond.

van der sluis b. a. de koning a. c. de bruijn a. velcichj.

a. vizca'ino a. csordas n. deltoro j. a. dianes j. griss i. lavidasmayer y. perez-riverol f. reisinger t. ternent q. w. xu r. wanghermjakob nucleic acids res.

found that the muc2 secretion was reduced in colonic explants from tlr2-- tlr4-- myd88-- trif -- and rag1-- mice when compared to wild-type mice and colonic goblet cells exposed to high concentrations of tlrs mainly tlr2 tlr4 tlr5 and myd88 stimulated muc2 secre- tion ex vivo.44 in the present study intake of fish oil significantly weakened tlrs signaling pathway with a significant decrease in tlr4 and myd88 abundances.

in the present study intake of fish oil downregulated the expression of arg2 and those enzymes involved in muc2 glycosylation and consequently muc2 was the least abundant in the fish-oil-diet-fed rats.

the fish oil group had the highest relative abundances of phylum proteobacteria and genus desulfovibrio in the colonic contents.9 the metabolites of these gut microbiota may break the metabolic balance and cause endo- toxemia which would increase pathogen adhesion to intestinal wall impair intestinal barrier function and finally increase the risk to inflammation.37in conclusion the intake of fish oil at a normal dose 4 fat in diet induced distinct changes in muc2 expression goblet cell number and tlrs expression in the colon of middle-aged rats which reflected the change in colonic mucus barrier.

martinez-fernandez l. m. laiglesia a. e. huerta j. a. martinezm.

carbonero a. c. benefiel a. h. alizadeh-ghamsari h. r. gaskinsfront.

m. dewulf p. d. cani a. m. neyrinck s. possemiers a. v. holleg.

d. cani r. bibiloni c. knauf a. waget a. m. neyrinck n. m. delzenne r. burcelin diabetes 2008 57 1470.j.

