however a body of literature suggests that the therapeutic efficacy of exercise depends on exercise intensity with response to variability dependent on the type of exercise cyclingrunningswimming exercise protocol acutechronic and the ms disease status relaps- ing-remitting rrprogressive .in this pilot study we aimed to develop a short two times week for 8 weeks aerobic training programme with multi-target therapeutic potential in individuals with ms. furthermore clini- cal trials of cognitive therapies in ms have not demonstrated clear reproducible improvements in cognitive function in patients .

given that exercise can increase brain volume particularly in the hippo- campus  it will be of interest to determine if our exercise programme is associated with alterations in grey and white mater volume and integrity in rrms patients.exercise among ms patients improves mobility  qol and walking ability  however a body of literature sug- gests that the therapeutic efficacy of exercise depends on ex- ercise intensity.

to monitor this a weekly physical activity log was completed by all study participants.exercise protocolthe exercise programme was conducted in the human physiology laboratory department of physiology university college cork and consisted of a 30-min exercise session involv- ing cycle ergometry using a static monark rt2 recumbent bike monark exercise ab kroons sweden.

however the impact of exercise is depen- dent on the typeintensity of exercise training and hence there is a clear need to establish a routine exercise protocol that results in targeted clinical improvement in the patient reviewed in .

the findings demonstrate that an 8-week exercise programme 30 minday 2 daysweek for 8 weeks is sufficient to improve cardiovascular fitness qol cognitive performance and depression indices and that this exercise intervention was proven to be a feasible safe exercise protocol for rrms patients.fig.

b. post hoc analysis revealed that exercise did not significantly impact energy levels in the healthy control cohort 64.78 - 3.78 pre-exercise vs. 74.00- 3.92 post-exercise however exercise induced a signifi- cant improvement in the energy levels in ms patients 32.56- 3.96 pre-exercise vs. 50.44 - 5.58 post-exercisep  0.001 fig.

c however exercise reduced the percentage pain level indicated by ms patients 29.39 - 7.82 pre- exercise versus 12.41 - 4.80 fig.

our data also demonstrate that at discharge from the current exercise programme the cantab battery indicat- ed that exercise improved attention executive function cognitive flexibility and visuospatial memory in patients indi- cating that a short-term cycling programme can improve cog- nitive performance in this ms patient cohort.

two patients took vita- min d supplementation.effect of exercise on vo2peak body weight and bmion entry to the study there was no significant difference in aerobic fitness vo2max between healthy subjects 32.70 - 1.83 mlminkg and ms patients 30.00 -1.97 mlminkg table .

participants continued their standard medical care during the period of the study and were asked to avoid participation in any additional exercise programmes during the prescribed 8-week exercise pro- gramme.

no significant change was detected in body weight or bmi after the exercise programme in both cohorts table .p  0.01 compared to healthy individuals pre-exercise training p  compared to ms individuals pre-exercise trainingbmi body mass index edss expanded disability status scale hc healthy control ms multiple sclerosis na not applicable t different time points of the testing procedure t1 pre-exercise baseline t2 post-exercise week 8effect of exercise on disabilitythe edss scores were taken by a neurologist prior to week 1 of training pre-exercise and at the end of 8 weeks of training post-exercise.

a. importantly exercise promoted a signifi- cant improvement in physical health summary score in the ms cohort 54.48 - 5.42 pre-exercise vs. 72.82 - 3.23 post- exercise p  0.01 fig.

a.we next assessed the impact of the 8-week exercise pro- gramme on subscales within the msqol-54 questionnaire targeting fatigue and pain both pre-exercise and post- exercise fig.

e. these data indicate that the short-term exercise programme undertaken in this study can improve mental health and depressive symptomatology in rrms patients.impact of exercise on cognitioncognitive performance was assessed using the cantabr software prior to week 1 of training and at the end of 8 weeks of training.

exercise improved both physical and mental health scores in ms patients.

