All GO graphs from all proteins matched by a peptide are merged into a single non-redundant GO graph the union of the sets and the spectral count of each term is increased by the spectral count for the peptide.

Lists of identified peptides and spectral counts were parsed from the resulting Percolator XML files using an in-house script filtering peptide identifications on a q-value of 0.01 and then using peptide spectrum matches PSMs filtered on a q-value of 0.01 for spectral counts.

For example if a peptide matches two proteins with the same species the taxonomic node for that species and all of its ancestors genus family order and so on to kingdom have their spectral counts increased by the spectral count for that peptide.

In the case of spectral counting this ensures each spectrum increases the spectral count for each functional or taxonomic annotation only once which may not be the case if we assumed each protein matched by the peptide was in the sample.

For example if the peptide matches proteins that each were found in species belonging to different orders of class Betaproteobacteria we identify the class Betaproteobacteria as the LCA for which this peptide provides spectral evidence.

As such interpretations of changes in relative abundance of general GO terms should be treated with care when there is a large ratio of unknown GO annotations in one of the experiments.Interpreting Taxonomic ChangesWhen a taxonomic tree is calculated for a peptide only the taxa that are unambiguously matched by that peptide have their spectral counts incremented.

The spectral count for each GO term in this DAG is then incremented by the spectral count of the peptide that gave rise to it.

The taxonomic terms have their spectral count increased by the spectral count of the peptide.

The spectral count for this unknown annotation and the molecularfunction root node is thus increased by the spectral count for that peptide and is included in reported data.Analysis of Ocean Metaproteomics DatasetAn example MetaGOmics result set was generated by comparing Bering Strait BSt surface water 7 m samples to Chukchi Sea CS bottom water 55.5 m samples.

In either of these cases the spectral count of the unknown GO term for the respective GO aspect is increased by the spectral count for the peptide.

