c venn diagram depicting the absolute number of genes expressed between c. albicans at 6 h red and 24 h green after adjusting for p value and fdr p  0.01.24 h respectively in response to c. albicans fig.

in which the virulence of c. albicans clinical isolates was directly correlated with their capacity to induce oral mucosal insult 44. notably only the expression of ece1candidalysin was strongly correlated with damage and patho- genesis in several but not all c. albicans isolates.

our findings demonstrate that can- didalysin is a key hypha-associated virulence determinant responsible for the im- munopathogenesis of c. albicans vaginitis.keywords candida candidalysin epithelial cells immunopathogenesis mucosal immunity mucosal pathogens mycology vaginitis vulvovaginalulvovaginal candidiasis vvc caused primarily by the polymorphic fungal patho- gen candida albicans remains a serious worldwide health concern leading to significant quality of life issues for immunocompetent women 1. symptomatic vvc is manifested by itching burning and pain sensations at the vaginal and vulvar tissue often accompanied by odorless vaginal discharge 2. globally vvc is estimated to be the most prevalent human fungal infection with over 75 of women experiencing at least one episode in their lifetime and 5 to 8 suffering from idiopathic recurrent infection 3. in recent years vvc has been described as an immunopathology in whichthe host neutrophil and associated cytokine response actually exacerbates disease symptoms yet fails to adequately control the fungus 4-7. while much effort has been placed on defining host immunological mechanisms contributing to vvc protection the fungal virulence factors that dictate conversion from asymptomatic colonization to fulminant infection remain poorly understood.using model systems several laboratories have collectively begun to unravel this complex host-pathogen interaction.

vaginal itching burning and discomfort 4. activation of innate immunesignaling results in the recruitment of neutrophils to the vaginal mucosa and experi- mental evidence suggests that these cells then amplify the inflammatory cascade seemingly without reducing the fungal burden 22 25. the in vitro and in vivo data presented in this study identify candidalysin as the crucial virulence factor that drives both c. albicans-induced neutrophil recruitment and vaginal immunopathogenesis.the vaginal epithelial response to c. albicans infection provides new insight into immunopathological signaling.

significant levels of cellular damage were observed with doses above 15 um compared to treatment with the vehicle control.vaginal epithelial cells respond to c. albicans hyphae by activating the p38-mapk and erk12-mapk signaling pathways resulting in the regulated secretion of proin- flammatory cytokines 8. to assess whether candidalysin is capable of activating these pathways epithelial cells were exposed to candidalysin in vitro and c-fos production mkp1 phosphorylation was assessed by western blotting fig.

in the oral cavity c. albicans induces expression of the antimicrobial peptide amp cathelicidin the murine equivalent of which is the cathelicidin-related amp camp 20. interestingly the gene encoding camp was not induced in the vagina by candidalysin and in fact was downregulated similarly by allfig 5 candidalysin is required for proinflammatory cytokine expression in the murine vagina.

surprisingly relatively few genes were strongly 4-fold downregulated in response to fungal challenge at either time point.gene ontology pathway and network mapping revealed profiles from c. albicans- infected cells to be consistent with mapk nf-kb phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pi3kfig 2 host signaling pathways predicted to be activated during c. albicans infection of rve.

the dual-specificity phosphatase 1 dusp1 gene encoding a regulator of mapk signaling was also elevated 6.7-fold in response to c. albicans.a number of genes involved in tissue repair wound healing or dampening of active inflammation were also upregulated during c. albicans infection including the genes coding for il-24 2.3-fold and the il-1 receptor antagonist il-1rn 4-fold 16 17. interestingly a number of other related genes were also induced including genes coding for heparin-binding egf-like growth factor hbegf 39.5-fold and epiregulin ereg 6-fold which are members of the epidermal growth factors egfs.

candidalysin a newly discovered peptide toxin secreted by c. albicans hyphae during invasion drives epithelial damage immune activation and phagocyte attraction.

mice intravagi- nally challenged with c. albicans strains deficient in candidalysin exhibited no differences in colonization compared to isogenic controls.

this study demonstrates that a single fungal factor candidalysin is responsible for inducing vaginal cellular damage and proinflammatory responses during c. albicans infection in vitro and in vivo.

il-1a il-1b il-8 and gm-csf and chemokines during rve challenge with c. albicans at time points when hyphae invaded the vaginal tissue we sought to determine whether the hypha-associated peptide toxin candidalysin similarly elicited these effector and damage responses.

the genes chosen for qpcr were those previously identified as being induced by candidalysin or c. albicans during in vitro or in vivo challenge il-6 a cxcl1 b cxcl2 c il-1a d il-1b e gm-csf f g-csf g camp h defb3 i s100a8 j and saa3 k. all the genes were internally compared to the actb housekeeping gene and to mock-infected controls using the ddct method.

expression of the gene coding for s100a8 s100a8 a calcium- binding protein with important functions in antifungal defense and danger re- sponses and strongly induced during c. albicans infection was almost completely absent during infection with candidalysin deletion strains fig.

one po- tential mechanism was presented whereby heparin sulfate outcompetes the fungal surface antigen pra1 for its natural ligand mac1 present on the surfaces of neutrophils to prevent killing of the fungus 29 30. although the precise role of heparin sulfate at the vaginal mucosa remains unclear it is often upregulated in other epithelial or epidermal tissues in response to damage functioning in the tissue repair process 31. therefore the capacity of c. albicans hyphae and candidalysin to damage epithelia and potentially elevate free vaginal heparin sulfate may indirectly contribute to a fungal fitness strategy to defend against pmn-mediated clearance at the mucosal surface.

