published by john wiley  sons ltd.keywords short-chain fatty acids hepatitis liver cancer gut microbiota probiotics fxrreceived 4 may 2017 revised 14 august 2017 accepted 6 september 2017no conflicts of interest were declared.introductiondysregulated bile acid ba synthesis is implicated in the development of metabolic disease autoimmune hepatitis hepatic cirrhosis and liver cancer 1 - 4. moreover patients who have severe liver cirrhosis or cancer have reduced ba receptor farnesoid x receptor fxr 56. consistently fxr knockout ko mice that have dysregulated ba synthesis develop hepatitis and liver cancer spontaneously and using cholestyra- mine to deplete bas prohibits hepatic tumorigenesis in fxr ko mice 7 - 11. in contrast to the whole body fxr ko mice hepatocyte-specific fxr ko mice do not spontaneously develop liver cancer and intestinal fxr ko mice are protected from diet-induced obesityand fatty liver 12 -14. these findings clearly indicate the significance of bas and their receptor fxr in the liver and gut in controlling hepatic health and disease process 1 - 4715 -20.bas are generated jointly by hepatic and bacterial enzymes.

wd intake increased the body weight and caused hepatomegaly in both wt and fxr ko mice figure 1b c. serum lipopolysaccharide lps concentration was higher in fxr ko mice than in wt mice when they consumed a wd figure 1d.

together butyrate exerts anti-inflammatory effects in the liver and colon.the effect of butyrate-deficient feces and butyrate supplementation on the development of hepatitisbecause wd-fed fxr ko male mice had the most severe hepatic inflammation the feces of 15-month-old male wd-fed fxr ko mice which lacked butyrate-generating bacteria were orally trans- planted to 7-month-old male wd-fed fxr ko mice with or without butyrate supplementation.

in addition the increased abundance of the desulfovibrionaceae family which generates hydrogen sulfide a genotoxin and mucosal barrier-breaker was positively correlated with serum lps level in fxr ko mice 5455. moreover the enriched bacteroidaceae in fxr ko mice might increase the risk for development of intestinal inflam- mation 56. those findings may in part explain the systemic inflammation found in wd-fed fxr ko mice.

p  0.05 was considered statistically significant.resultshepatitis and tumor formation in wd-fed fxr ko micewhen mice were 15 months old both wd-fed wt and cd-fed fxr ko male mice had hepatitis figure 1a and supplementary material figure s1a.

additionally flow cytometry data revealed that wd-fed fxr ko mice had substantially increased splenic tnf macrophage abundance indicating systemic inflamma- tion figure 1e.the effect of diet and fxr status on hepatic and gut inflammatory signalingwd and fxr inactivation significantly increased the hepatic mrna levels of chemokine ligand 17 ccl17 ligand 20 ccl20 and ligand 2 ccl2 and wd-fed fxr ko mice had the highest levels figure 2a.

moreover the increased ccna2 cyclin a2 mrna was found in both wd-fed and fxr ko mice and wd-fed fxr ko mice had the highest ccna2 mrna level implying increased proliferation.

ffar3 frar2 and hcar2 were reduced in wd-fed fxr ko mice figure 2a.figure 1. histological and phenotypic changes in control diet cd and western diet wd-fed wild-type and fxr ko mice.

moreover there was an impressive increase of desulfovibrionaceae and bacteroidaceae which rose from 1 in wt mice to 10 in fxr ko mice.

wild-type wt and fxr knockout ko male mice were placed on a control cd or western diet wd for 15 months.

in the presence or absence of butyrate supplementation feces obtained from 15-month-old wd-fed fxr ko mice which had severe hepatitis and liver tumors were transplanted to 7-month-old wd-fed fxr ko for 3 months.

in addition wd-fed fxr ko male mice had the highest concentration of hepatic-muricholic acid -mca and bacteria-generated deoxycholic acid dca accompanied by serious hepatitis.

moreover dysregulated ba and reduced scfa signaling co-existed in both human liver cancers and wd-fed fxr ko mice.

microbiota transplantation using butyrate-deficient feces derived from 15-month-old wd-fed fxr ko mice increased hepatic lymphocyte numbers as well as hepatic -mca and dca concentrations.

the current study examines the effect of bacteria-generated butyrate in the development of hepatitis induced by dysregulated bas in fxr ko mice as well as its effect in normalizing dysregulated ba-associated hepatitis.the liver receives 70 of its blood supply from the intestine and is constantly exposed to intestinal-derived metabolites.

