Although obesity low fruitvegetable intakeand smoking are recognized risk factors for EAC and alcohol drinking low fruitvegetable intake and smoking are recognized risk factors for ESCC only alcohol drinking was associated with ESCC P 14 0.004.Overall microbiota diversity in relation to EAC and ESCCEAC and ESCC cases did not differ significantly from matched controls in oral a-diversity as measured by species richness and the Shannon diversity index or overall oral microbiome compo- sition b-diversity as measured by unweighted and weighted UniFrac distances Supplementary Table S2.Taxa associated with EACFor the a priori red complex periodontal pathogens 30 a doubling of T. forsythia abundance relative to the geometric mean of all taxa was associated with 1.21 95 confidence interval CI 1.01-1.46 times higher odds of EAC P 0.04 while abundance of P. gingivalis and T. denticola was not associated with EAC risk Table 2 Fig.

Interestingly Treponema vincentii which was associated with increased ESCC risk and has been previously associated with periodontal disease 34 35 was linked to other periodontalpathogens P. gingivalis T. forsythia in the ecological network.Inferred metagenomic analysisAnalysis of inferred metagenomes revealed a number of metabolic pathways nominally associated with EAC riskTable 4 although none reached the significance thres- hold after FDR adjustment.

Taxa names are colored by phylum OR estimates are colored only if nominally statistically significant P  0.05.nanceiensis Bergeyella oral taxon 322 Neisseria weaveri and Trep- onema vincentii was associated with higher ESCC risk while increased abundance of Prevotella oral taxon 306 and Aggregati- bacter paraphrophilus was associated with lower ESCC risk all P  0.05.

Finally when we stratified by fruit and vege- table intake order Actinomycetales was associated with higher EAC risk only in those with higher fruit and vegetable intakePinteraction0.05 while other interactions were nonsignifi- cant Pinteraction  0.18 Supplementary Table S7.Taxa associated with ESCCThe periodontal pathogen P. gingivalis was marginally associ- ated with higher ESCC risk OR 95 CI 1.30 0.96-1.77 P 0.09 Table 2 Fig.

We did not observe phylum-level associations with EAC or ESCC risk.bPercent of participants with presence of particular taxon in their oral cavity.cModel parameters and P values were pooled over 10 models from 10 imputed datasets missing values in BMI category and alcohol drinking level were imputed using mice package R.dZeros in table are true zeros as when 50 of participants do not carry a taxon the median relative abundance will be zero.6782 Cancer Res 7723 December 1 2017Cancer ResearchOral Microbiome and Esophageal CancerFigure 2.Ecological networks among bacterial species associated with EAC or ESCC risk.

A recent report revealed that P. gingivalis was detected at a higher rate in ESCC tumor tissue compared with adjacent normal and healthy control mucosa moreover P. gingivalis presence was associated with ESCC lymph node metastasis and decreased survival time 39.

Only KEGG pathways relating to metabolism and periodontal pathogens or species associated with EAC or ESCC P  0.05 are included in the heatmap.6784 Cancer Res 7723 December 1 2017Cancer ResearchOral Microbiome and Esophageal Canceresophageal cancer prevention or utilizing it for risk stratifica- tion and early detection.Studies of oral disease and cancer provide evidence that oral health tooth loss poor oral hygiene and possibly periodontal disease is linked to esophageal cancer risk 14 36-38.

In addition although our study is the largest of its kind case sample sizes n 81 EAC and n 25 ESCC remained small limiting statistical power to detect FDR-adjusted significant associations and our study popula- tion was mostly white limiting generalizability.In summary we found evidence that specific bacterial patho- gens may play a role in esophageal cancer risk whereas other bacterial types may be associated with reduced risk.

 Prevention and EpidemiologyOral Microbiome Composition Reflects Prospective Risk for Esophageal CancersBrandilyn A. Peters1 Jing Wu12 Zhiheng Pei234 Liying Yang5 Mark P. Purdue6 Neal D. Freedman6 Eric J. Jacobs7 Susan M. Gapstur7 Richard B. Hayes12and Jiyoung Ahn12AbstractBacteria may play a role in esophageal adenocarcinoma EAC and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ESCC although evidence is limited to cross-sectional studies.

Consequently there is a critical need for new avenues of prevention risk stratification and early detection.The two main types esophageal adenocarcinoma EAC and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ESCC differ greatly in incidence geography and etiology.

