bacterial burdens from c. rodentium-infected mice treated with gos mice were not significantly different from those of untreated infected mice.

colonic tis- sues were removed from a uninfected untreated control mice b untreated c. rodentium-infected mice or c gos-treated c. roden- tium-infected mice and processed for histopathological analysis.

rep- resentative photomicrographs of hematoxylin and eosin h and e stained liver sections taken at x10 c-e and x40 f-h objective mag- nification with bars denoting lengths of 250 and 100 um respectively at the two magnifications from either uninfected untreated control mice untreated c. rodentium-infected mice or gos-treated c. rodentium-infected mice.

however gos-treated c. rodentium-infected mice were protected against such tissue damage and presented with scores simi- lar to those of healthy untreated uninfected mice.

mice treated with gos had approximately 2-log greater levels of c. rodentium in their spleens compared to untreated c. rodentium-infected mice .

some prebiotic oligosaccharidesreceived 17 september 2017 accepted 6 december 2017author affiliations 1department of food science and technology university of nebraska-lincoln lincoln ne usa 2school of veterinary medicine and biomedical sciences university of nebraska-lincoln lincoln ne usa 3department of veterinary pathology iowa state university ames iowa usa.correspondence amanda e. ramer-tait keywords prebiotics citrobacter rodentium anti-adherence conventionally-raised mice gastrointestinal inflammation.abbreviations emb eosin methylene blue fos fructooligosaccharides gos galactooligosaccharides lb luria-bertani lee loci of enterocyte effacement.one supplementary table is available with the online version of this article.000593 a 2018 the authors bypossess significant structural similarity to the oligosacchar- ides that coat host epithelial cells and are recognized by pathogens as receptor sites.

however gos treat- ment significantly improved pathogen-induced intestinal inflammation compared to untreated c. rodentium-infected mice.

bacterial adherence was then determined by lysing the cells using 0.1  triton x-100 performing serial dilutions and plating on lb plates incubated overnight0at 37 c.miceseven-week-old c57bl6 conventionally raised female mice jackson laboratory bar harbor me were purchased and maintained under specific pathogen-free conditions at the university of nebraska-lincoln.

mice were acclimated to facility conditions for 7 days prior to starting the experi- ment and then divided into four treatment groups a control no treatment and not infected b c. rodentium- infected c gos-treated not infected and d gos- treated and c. rodentium-infected.

mice were housed four per cage with two cages per treatment.

all mice were necropsied on day 10 after infection.

rodentium intestinal adherence and faecal shedding c57bl6 mice were provided with gos for 2 weeks prior to infection with c. rodentium.

yet statistically significant increase p0.032 in the number of c. rodentium adherent to the distal colon compared to the untreated infected mice .

shedding levels for both gos-treated and untreated mice were found to be similar at 3 and 7 days post-infection b c indicating that gos supplemen- tation does not affect the number of c. rodentium shed in the faeces.

we also collected faecal samples from all mice before infection with c. rodentium to confirm the absence of any bacteria e.g.

