In order to eliminate the false positives in the qPCR assay for the detection of the uidA gene in E. coli used native Taq due to the presence of con- taminant E. coli DNA in recombinant Taq polymerase reagents and were able to detect as low as 5 copies of the uidA gene compared with 10- 10000 gene copy numbers reported in the literature.Application of PMA-qPCR for detection of E. coli in secondary wastewater effluent requires the effluent first to be concentrated.

The third method the E. coli spiked WW PBS-washed samples showed an increase in Cq for the 1 mL WW concentrate sample of 0.93 and a de- crease of 0.15 and 0.08 for the 10 and 100 mL WW concentrate samples compared to the spiked PBS samples  resulting in a decreased de- tection of the Log10 genomic units of 0.28 for the 1 mL concentrate and an increased detection of the Log10 genomic units of the 10 and 100 mL concentrates of 0.05 and 0.03 respectively.

The qPCR target was the E. coli uidA gene and native Taq was used to eliminate false positives caused by the presence of contaminant E. coli DNA in recombinant Taq polymerase reagents.

These results demonstrate the effective use of a PMA- qPCR method for the quantification of the E. coli uidA gene and indicate there are high numbers 2.01 x 103 CCE100 mL of VBNC E. coli cells leaving the wastewater treatment plant in the final effluent after chlorine treatment.

The WWTP main- tains monthly geometric mean compliance levels of thermally tolerantforms of E. coli survive at 44.5 degC to b 200 CFU100 mL in the final ef-fluent as cultured on selective agar for E. coli.All WW and WWD samples were collected into autoclave-sterilized 5-liter carboys.

For each procedure 1 mL of a 20 h culture of E. coli was washed in PBS then spiked into 400 mL fresh WW and mixed by inversion for 30 s.Procedure 1 Three replicates of 1 10 and 100 mL WW samples were concentrated by centrifugation at 8000 x g for 5 min samples represent 1x 10x and 100x concentrates su- pernatant discarded and pellets resuspended in 450 mL of phosphate buffer pH 6.6 and to this 50 mL of 100 mM aluminum sulfate Al2SO4 solution was added to give a final concentration of 10 mM.

Flowchart of the experimental steps and protocols.Culture-based detection and enumeration of E. coliDetection and enumeration of E. coli in WW samples was achieved by serial dilutions of the WW and using 100 mL of each dilution to establish the standard curve.

The above standard curve plot of the Sketa DNA amplicon qPCR data showing linearity from 5 ng to 50 fg of Sketa DNA.Table 3Log10 CFUCCE in 10 mL concentrated wastewater samples before and after chlorine disinfection.a Colony forming units as determined by mTEC agar culture.b Calculated CFU equivalent based on the E. coli 50 ng positive control Cq in each experiment.c VBNC estimates calculated by subtracting the CFU from CCE PMA treated.d CFU reduction calculates by subtracting WWD CFU from WW CFU.e CCE PMA treated reduction calculated by subtracting the WWD CCE from the WW CCE.the WW and WWD samples.

VBNC bacterial cells are of concern as they have the potential to resuscitate and grow regain virulence affect natural microbiome in the discharge sites and pass on antimicrobial resistant genes to other microorganisms.c 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.IntroductionThe detection and quantification of viable Escherichia coli E. coli cells in wastewater effluent is used as an indicator of disinfection effica- cy at wastewater treatment plants WWTP.

The method was used to determine the number of viable and VBNC E. coli cells that survive chlorine disinfection in wastewater and to evaluate the true disinfection performance.Material and methodsA flow-chart that illustrates the experimental steps and protocols are illustrated in .Wastewater samplesSecondary effluent wastewater samples prior to disinfection WW and after chlorine disinfection WWD were collected from a conven- tional activated sludge treatment plant in Ontario Canada.

