these differences were greatest in the gtr1gtr1 mutant and were significant in both mutants at 4 h gtr1gtr1 p  0.038 rhb1rhb1 p  0.05.fig 4 transcript profiling of the gtr1gtr1 mutant in liquid yepd at 37degc.

confirmation of the homozygous deletion was carried out with a combination of pcr primers complementary to regions flanking the deletion gtr1flank1 and -2 and within the deletion gtr1intf and -r. to complement the mutant gtr1 was amplified with primers gtr1reint f1 and r1 table s2 and cloned by using xhoi and hindiii restriction endonuclease cleavage and ligation to pcdri and this plasmid was transformed into the gtr1gtr1 homozygous mutant as previously described .hyphal growth aggregation and flocculation assays.

lanes 1 wt c. albicans sc5314 2 peno-gtr1 derivative 3 homozygous gtr1gtr1 mutant 4 heterozygous gtr1gtr1 mutant.

this signal was reduced in a homozygous gtr1gtr1 mutant derivative indicating that gtr1 has a role in the transduction of nitrogen availability signals via torc1.

this study demonstrates that starvation responses and biofilm formation are coregulated by gtr1 and suggests that these responses are linked to compete with the microbiome for space and nutrients.keywords candida albicans tor biofilm virulencef the clinically relevant candida species candida albicans is responsible for the vast majority of human infections .

research articlehost-microbe biologythe candida albicans tor-activating gtpases gtr1 and rhb1 coregulate starvation responses and biofilm formationpeter r. flanagana ning-ning liub darren j. fitzpatrickc karsten hokampc julia r. kohlerb adivision of oral biosciences dublin dental university hospital university of dublin trinity college dublin dublin irelanda boston children's hospital and harvard medical school boston massachusetts usab school of genetics and microbiology university of dublin trinity college dublin dublin irelandcabstract target of rapamycin complex 1 torc1 is an essential regulator of me- tabolism in eukaryotic cells and in the fungal pathogen candida albicans regulates morphogenesis and nitrogen acquisition.

however the gtr1 and rhb1 mutations appear to have opposing effects on sko1 transcription indicating that gtr1 and rhb1 may differ in some aspects of torc1 regulation.the present study shows that both proteins play a role in the regulation of nitrogen starvation responses in response to low ammonium and bsa  and gene expression patterns in the homozygous mutants also indicate that defective torc1 signaling also reduces the level of expression of genes involved in ribosome biogenesis and amino acid biosynthesis which resembles the response of c. albicans to rapamycin exposure .

the homozygous gtr1gtr1 mutant exhibited enhanced flocculation phenotypes and similar to the rhb1rhb1 mutant exhibited enhanced biofilm forma- tion on plastic surfaces.

b the gtr1gtr1 mutant dgtr exhibits more rapid flocculation in spider medium following static incubation than the rhb1rhb1 mutant drhb1.

the star indicates a significant difference between the wt strain and the peno-gtr1 and peno-tor1 strains t test p  0.05. f quantitative analysis of the numbers of nonflocculating free yeast cells in cultures of the gtr1gtr1 mutant dgtr the rhb1rhb1 mutant drhb1 and the complemented derivatives in yepd supplemented with 10 volvol serum.

categories in orange were upregulated in the gtr1gtr1 mutant but downregulated in the rhb1rhb1 mutant.

the rhb1rhb1 mutant exhibited increased susceptibility to both agents whereas the gtr1gtr1 mutant exhibited wt levels of susceptibility fig.

a star indicates a p value of 0.05 anova with dunnett's multiple-comparison test.biofilm mass was compared in sc5315 and the gtr1gtr1 mutant dgtr the rhb1rhb1 mutant drhb1 and complemented derivatives with the crystal violet assay following 24 and 48 h of growth in spider medium at 37degc.

a star indicates a p value of 0.05 anova with dunnett's multiple-comparison test.light micrographs of 48-h biofilms of sc5314 the gtr1gtr1 mutant the rhb1rhb1 mutant and complemented derivatives.

during most stages of the c. albicans life cyclefig 6 the virulence of sc5314 the gtr1gtr1 mutant the rhb1rhb1 mutant and their complemented derivatives was analyzed in the g. mellonella model of infection.

