interestingly while gas production and drops in ph were more intense in the initial 4 h of fos fermentation for the glucans most of the gas production a and ph reduction b occurred after 8 and 4 h of fermentation respectively.this tendency of the insoluble glucans towards a slower fermenta- tion profile compared to fos was also observed for scfa production a-d. glucans a and b presented progressive increases in acetate and propionate production at all time points and in butyrate produc- tion especially after 8 h fermentation while the production of all three scfas from fos was more intense in the initial 4 h fermentation a-c.at 24 h fermentation acetate production rates for glucans a and b were similar and significantly lower than for fos 46 a. for propionate however fermentation of glucan b was similar to fos at 24 h and glucan a had 16.4 less propionate than glucan b b. fer- mentation of glucan b also generated greater butyrate rates than glucanfig.

the initial oven temperature was held at 50 degc for 2 min ramped to 70 degc at a rate of 10 degc min-1 to 85 degc at a rate of 3 degc min-1 to 110 degc at a rate of 5 degc min-1 to 290 degc at a rate of 30 degc min and finally held at 290 degc for 8 min.

pca analysis indicated that the general bac- terial composition in blank samples remained the same throughout all fermentation time points a. a comparable tendency was ob- served in fos ferments which presented a similar bacterial composi- tion from 4 to 24 h. on the other hand the fermentation of glucans a and b led to progressive shifts in bacterial composition at all timepoints presenting very distinct bacterial populations from the blank and fos in the 24 h ferments a.major changes in bacterial groups are visualized in b. bac- teroides uniformis in the bacteroidetes phylum presented large in- creases in the glucan ferments reaching a population 8.1-8.3 fold higher than the blank at 24 h to represent around 22 of the total bacterial population.

on the other hand glucans a and b led to an increase in bacteroidetes and firmicutes populations that started at 8 h fermentation for glucana and 12 h fermentation for glucan b. in 24 h fermentation bacter- oidetes and firmicutes reached 27.2 and 14.5 fold increaserespectively for glucan a and 16.7 and 22.0 fold increase for glucan b compared to initial bacterial populations.due to the high proportions of butyrate observed during glucan a and b fermentation as well as the marked increase in the firmicutes phylum the high butyrogenic clostridium cluster xiva and a butyrate- producing representative from its cluster e. rectale were also eval- uated.

interestingly increases in butyrate production could be detected for both glucans 4 h after significant increases in bacteria from clostridium cluster xiva were observed in dna sequencing graphs b. on the other hand increases in clostridium cluster xiva de- tected by rt-qpcr e coincided better with the time that in- creases in butyrate production were observed c. this is plausible as sequencing uses total metagenomic dna and does not differentiate viable and dead bacterial cells.

moreover glucans a and b led to a proportionally higher production of butyrate and propionate and lower production of acetate compared to fos .bacterial shifts during in vitro fecal fermentationfirmicutes and bacteroidetes which usually are the most abundant phyla in the human gut microbiome as well as the highly butyrogenic clostridium cluster xiva and a representative species from its cluster e.fig.

expression increases of 58.8 and 71.9 fold were observed in clostridium cluster xiva for glucans a and b respectively but not for fos or the blank at 24 h fermentation.

although some members of this cluster such as blautia ruminococcus and other species from the lach- nospiraceae family presented small decreases the final counterbalance remained positive around 10 and 16 higher for glucans a and b respectively than the clostridium cluster xiva population in the blank at 24 h.discussionthe selective modulation observed in bacterial groups as well as metabolites produced after in vitro fecal fermentation of glucans from c. speciosa is distinct from changes observed with fructooligosaccharides.

bacterial shifts were similar for both glucans a and b though the former presented lower rates of clostridium cluster xiva at 24 h fermentation f and b coinciding with its slower fermentation profile.

however bacterial cells from clostridium cluster xiva were foundabbreviations scfa short chain fatty acids bcfa branched chain fatty acids fos fructooligosaccharides sec size-exclusion chromatography nmr nuclear magnetic resonance corresponding author at cp 19.046 cep 81.531-980 curitiba pr brazil.

6. bacterial content log10cfu and fold change based on the initial inoculum in fermented samples determined by rt-qpcr for bacteroides a and b firmicutes c and d clostridium cluster xiva e andf and e. rectale g and h. for interpretation of thereferences to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.rectale were evaluated through rt-qpcr in fecal ferments from the blank fos and glucans a and b .

these glucans are widely found among different edible mushrooms             and further human studies could be con- ducted to test whether the consumption of these glucan sources as a dietetic approach could be used for the augmentation of the clostridium cluster xiva population in the human gut.conclusionsglucans obtained from c. speciosa were highly butyrogenic and propiogenic with low gas production during in vitro fecal fermentation and led to distinct bacterial shifts compared to fos.

5. acetate butyrate and propionate percentage ratios after 24 h in vitro fecal fermentation of glucans a and b compared to fos and the blank.a 23 and most notably was only 11 lower than fos at 24 h fermentation c. total scfa production was of 55.5 mm for fos31.33 mm for glucan a and 38.18 mm for glucan b .

only taxa greater than 1 total read composition were in- cluded in this graph b. for interpretation of the references to colour in the text legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.an increase of 2.7 fold in e. rectale was also reached in fos ferments at 8 h but it was followed by a decrease leading to a population similar to the blank at 24 h fermentation.a more in-depth evaluation of bacterial composition after in vitro fecal fermentation was performed using dna sequencing methodology.

thus the linear 1 - 3-linked b-d-glucan glucan b reached higher butyrate and clos- tridium cluster xiva population levels at 24 h fermentation.our findings support the view that distinct dietary fibers can be identified and chosen to selectively change the composition andor activity of bacterial groups in the gut with a target of biological sig- nificance.

