a the relative gastrointestinal permeability of control mice compared to mice infected with h. suis n  5. b expression of mucins muc5ac muc5b muc13 and muc6 in the corpus of the stomach of c57bl6 mice inoculated with h. suis and of control mice represented as fold change n  7-10. c-d expression of the mucin muc13 in antrum of the stomach c and in duodenum d in c57bl6 mice one month after infection with helicobacter suis h. suis compared to control mice represented as fold change n  5-9. e-f representative images of immunostaining of muc13 in the stomach of control mice e and h. suis infected mice f n  5. g-h representative confocal images of zonula occludens 1 zo1 staining in the stomach of control mice g and h. suis-infected c57bl6 mice h n  4-5.whether the h. suis-induced alterations in gastrointestinal barrier integrity were correlated with changes in junctional proteins in the stomach.

data were analysed by student's t-test n  3-5. d-e representative images of ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 iba1 staining of brain sections at the subventricular zone from c57bl6 mice of control mice d and of mice after one month infection with h. suis e n  5. f quantification of the percentage brown staining iba1 in the whole brain of h. suis-infected and negative control mice n  5. g quantification of the amount of microglia at the subventricular zone of control and h. suis-infected mice n  5. h-i representative images of glial fibrillary acidic protein gfap staining on brain sections at the subventricular zone from control mice h and of mice after one month infection with h. suis i n  4-5. j quantification of the percentage red staining gfap at the subventricular zone of h. suis-infected and negative control mice n  5. k preference for the new object determined by the novel object recognition nor test in control and h. suis-infected mice during training black and testing grey.

a relative blood-brain barrier bbb permeability one month after inoculation with growth medium or h. suis n  5. b relative blood-cerebrospinal fluid csf barrier permeability one month after inoculation with growth medium or h. suis n  8- 10. c expression of the tight junction genes claudin 1 cldn1 cldn5 occludin ocln zonula occludens zo1 and zo3 in choroid plexus tissue from c57bl6 mice infected with h. suis compared to control mice n  5. d-e representative images of choroid plexus tissue stained for cldn1 of control mice d and h. suis-infected mice e n  5. f-g representative images of immunostaining of zo1 in the choroid plexus of control f and h. suis-infected g mice n  3-4. h-k western blot analysis of cldn1 h and ocln i in choroid plexus tissue from control and h. suis-infected mice.

data were analysed by student's t-test n  4-5. b concentration of stnfr1 in the cerebrospinal fluid csf of control mice and mice infected with h. suis n  10. c expression of inflammatory genes il1b kc il6 and tnf in the hippocampus of c57bl6 mice infected with h. suis compared to control mice represented as fold change.

a h. suis colonization in the stomach corpus and antrum and duodenum of c57bl6 mice one month after h. suis infection compared to control mice n  7-10. b-c representative he images of stomach sections of control b and h. suis-infected c c57bl6 mice one month after infection.

a analysis of the presence of h. suis determined by rt- qpcr on corpus and hippocampus tissue derived from c57bl6 mice one month after h. suis infection compared and control mice n  6-10. b-f representative images of the stomach b positive control choroid plexus c-d and hippocampus e-f stained for helicobacter in sections from control and h. suis-infected mice.

in contrast no significant changes in the expression of cytokines andchemokines were found in the duodenum of mice infected with h. suis g.gastric h. suis infection induces inflammation and activation of microglia in the brainto determine whether h. suis affects the brain cerebrospinal fluid csf and brain tissue were analysed for inflammation.

in contrast no h. suis dna was detected in the stomach of control mice a. additionally h. suis dna was also detected in the duodenum of infected mice but to a lower extent than in the stomach a.analysis of he-stained stomach of control animals showed no or negligible infiltration of mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells in the mucosa and the submucosa which agrees with the normal histological image of the stomach b. in contrast pronounced infiltration of mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells was detected in the stomach of h. suis-infected animals c indicating gastric inflammation as scored by the updated sydney system d. furthermore inflammation was also asso- ciated with changes in the expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines.

d inflammation score based on he staining of stomach of h. suis-infected and control mice n  5. e-g inflammatory gene expression analysis represented as fold change of interleukin 1b il1b lipopolysaccharide-induced cxc chemokine lix keratinocyte chemoattractant kc il10 and il17 in corpus e and antrum f of stomach and duodenum g in c57bl6 mice after one month of infection with h. suis compared to control mice.

additionally h. suis can be present and survive in minced pork suggesting that raw or undercooked pork may be a source of h. suis infection in humans .recently an exceptionally high frequency 27 of h. suis dna was found in gastric biopsies from human patients with parkinson's disease compared to a control group with no clinical0889-1591c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.parkinsonism 2 .

as shown in k h. suis infection results in loss of short-term memory in mice reveal- ing that the mild brain inflammation caused by h. suis infection negatively affects cognition.

compared to control mice in which zo1 was located mainly at the apical side of the stomach epithelial cells g the zo1 signal was much more diffuse in stomach samples from h. suis- infected animals h. the changes in expression and localisa- tion of both muc13 and zo1 might thus explain the increased gas- trointestinal leakage in the presence of h. suis infection.disruption of the gastric mucosal barrier might result in leakage of h. suis into the periphery and subsequent translocation into the brain.

abbreviations cp choroid plexus csf cerebrospinal fluid g analysis of relative tlr4 ligand levels in serum of c57bl6 mice one month after h. suis infection compared to control mice n 10 determined using hek-blue mtlr4 reporter cells invivogen.

quantification was done using imagestudio using actin as the loading control for cldn1 j and oclnk n  3. abbreviations cldn1 claudin-1 cp choroid plexus csf cerebrospinal fluid ocln occludin.of h. suis-infected mice while the expression of muc5ac muc5b and muc6 were unaffected b. this finding was confirmed histo- logically e-f compared to control mice e apical membrane and cytoplasmatic muc13 staining brown was much more pronounced in the mucus-secreting epithelial cells of the stomach of h. suis-infected mice f. in contrast muc13 geneexpression did not change in antrum and was significantly down-regulated in the duodenum of h. suis-infected animals c-d.the gastric epithelium located underneath the mucus layer is formed by epithelial cells connected by tight junction proteins .

recently we reported a high prevalence of helicobacter suis h. suis in patients with parkinson's disease.

