During the third admission vancomycin and teicoplanin were used to treat CDI fluconazole and mycamine were used to treat CandidatabLe 1  Blood count lymphocyte subsets and tested antibodies.blood indexCount x109 Ratio Red blood cell RBC4.25white blood cell WBC12.52Hemoglobin Hb gL104Platelet PLT586Neutrophil N82Lymphocyte L11CD30.9072.44CD40.3225.77CD80.4939.98CD16CD56CD3-0.2621.21CD190.075.74autoantibodiesResultAnti-dsRNA antibody-Anti-ribonucleoprotein antibody-Anti-SM antibody-Anti-sicca syndrome A antibody-Anti-sicca syndrome B antibody-Anti-ScL-70 antibody-Anti-centromere protein B antibody-Anti-Jo-1 antibody-Anti-proliferation cell nuclear antigen antibody-Anti-perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-Anti-antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody-Anti-mitochondrial antibody-Anti-histone antibody-Anti-ribosomal P protein antibody-Anti-PM-ScL antibody-Anti-nucleosome antibody-Antithyroglobulin antibody-Anti-insulin antibodies-Anti-insulin cell antibodies-ScL sclerosis PM polymyositis - negative.albicans infection which found in the mouth ceftriaxone and azithromycin were given to treat pneumoniae Mycoplasma.

This finding suggested the importance of consideration of IPEX syndrome in older child with less typical common clinical manifestations to avoid delayed diagnosis.Currently numerous studies have reported more than 70 distinct FOXP3 mutations in IPEX syndrome patients .

While the case we presented here was a late-onset IPEX syndrome with manifestation of intractable diarrhea and recurrent infections with c.1190GA p. R397Q mutation in FOXP3 gene.Currently there is no standardized therapeutic approach to IPEX syndrome due to limited reported cases and lacking of multicentric studies .

5267.doi Immune dysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy X-linked IPEX syndrome is a rare life threatening congenital autoimmune disorder caused by mutations in the forkhead box protein 3 FOXP3 gene.

Here we report a 6-year-old boy with late-onset IPEX syndrome due to a c.1190GA p. R397Q mutation in exon 11 of the FOXP3 gene.

Finally the boy was diagnosed as IPEX syndrome by genetic test and received hema- topoietic stem cell transplantation HSCT.

Our findings suggests that IPEX should be considered in cases of late-onset mild forms and less typical clinical manifestations to avoid diagnostic delay.Keywords immune dysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy X-linked forkhead box protein 3 late-onset diarrhea hematopoietic stem cell transplantationINtRoDUCtIoNImmune dysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy X-linked IPEX syndrome is a rare dis- order of genetic autoimmunity which caused by mutations in the forkhead box protein 3 FOXP3 gene .

Currently increasing atypical cases were diagnosed by FOXP3 gene sequencing which indicating the vary expressivity of IPEX syndrome .

Although IPEX syndrome is often early onset with manifestations appear in the first days of life or even at birth it has been reported that the onset of the disease could be delayed to early childhood or adolescence  .

Currently the therapeutic approaches to IPEX syndrome include supportive care and replacement therapy immunosuppressive treatment and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplanta- tion HSCT  .

