echaracterization of the cervical bacterial community in dairy cows with metritis and during different physiological phasesyu wang  jifang wang  huatao li kaiqiang fu binbin pang yan yang yuan liu wenru tian rongfeng caodepartment of clinical veterinary medicine college of animal science and veterinary medicine qingdao agricultural university qingdao shandong province 266109 people's republic of chinaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 9 january 2017 received in revised form 11 december 2017accepted 13 december 2017available online 14 december 2017keywords16srdna sequencingdairy cowscervical microbial diversity microbial communitiescorresponding author.e-mail address r. cao.1 first author.2 equally contributing author.a b s t r a c t for the development of disease prevention and intervention strategies a better understanding of the dynamics and interactions within cervical bacterial communities in both healthy cows and cows with metritis is required.

to gain deeper insight into fluctuations within the cervical microbiota swab samples were collected from 40 holstein dairy cows and16s rdna amplicon sequencing was used to analyze cervical bacterial diversity.

cervical bacterial diversity decreased in cows with metritis however due to the highly dynamic and complex course of metritis the relationship between cervical bacterial diversity and metritis requires further investigation.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionrecently it has been shown that many animal species live in close association with commensal and symbiotic microbiomes.

the superior certain side of the external cervical os was smeared with the sampler thoroughly then samples were then placed in a nitrogen canister for trans-portation back to the laboratory lag time of approximately 4 h and stored at -80 oc until used.total bacterial genomic dna extractiontotal genomic dna was extracted from cervical swabs using tianamp bacteria dna kits tiangen technology.

however the number of otus in the metritis group was only 265 indicating a comparatively simple cervical microbial community.concomitant with an increase in sample size species accumu- lation curves gradually slowed after a certain range indicating that our rarified sequencing depth was sufficient to evaluate the di- versity of cervical bacterial communities in cows .the calculated ace index  demonstrates the complexity of the bacterial species within groups.

in other words the composition of cervical mi- crobial communities was more complex in formative cows than in gestating and postpartum cows.recent studies have suggested that the diversity of cervical bacterial composition in dairy cows is likely to be even more complex than previously described by traditional culture- dependent methods .

however our 16srdna sequencing results showed that the cervical bacterial community in the formative gestational and postpartum stages of cows was composed of mainly firmicutes proteobacteria and bac- teroidetes while cows with metritis had a cervical bacterial com- munity composed of mainly bacteroidetes fusobacteria andfirmicutes.

these results provide a reference to evaluate the cervical microbial community in the formative gestational and postpartum stages of cows as well as in cows with metritis thus enabling large- scale cohort studies of the cervical ecosystem.

the results revealed a complex profile with extensive differences in the cervical bacterial composition.

at the phylum level the cervical microbial community in the cf cg and cp groups included mainly firmicutes which accounted for 39.3 48.3 and 49.6 of the total microbial composition of each group respectively.

however the cervical bacterial community in the cm group consisted of mostly bacteroidetes which accounted for 72.6 of the total microbial composi- tion.

at the genus level the cervical bacterial community in the cm group of cows was domi- nated by porphyromonas44.4 and fusobacterium12.1 while porphyromonas accounted for only 1.3 1.1 and 1.4 of the total microbial compositions of the cf cg and cp groups respectively.

the results demonstrate that cervical bacterial diversity decreases in cows with metritis and that the predominant bacterial genera are porphyromonas and fusobacterium.

cervical bacterial diversity was rich in all observed physiological phases and the predominant bacterial phylum was firmicutes.

pregnancy had little effect on the cervical bacterial community however there were increases in the abundances of pathogenic species in postpartum cows.

