In this review we will look back at the introduction of DNA sequence typing of P. acnes based on recA and tly loci and then describe how these methods provided a basic understanding of the population genetic structure of the bacterium and even helped characterize the grapevine-associated lineage of P. acnes known as P. acnes type Zappe which appears to have undergone a host switch from humans-to-plants.

Moderate inflammatory and non-inflammatory acne lesions on the forehead A and shoulderof a 14-year-old adolescent boy.Introduction of recA and tly Gene Sequencing for Phylogenetic Analysis of P. acnesGene sequence analysis of P. acnes based on the non-ribosomal housekeeping HK gene recA 1047 bp PPA1012 and the putative haemolysinFtsJ-like methyltransferase gene tly 777 bp PPA1396 was first described in 2005 as part of a larger study investigating the phylogenetic relationship between the two serotypes of P. acnes known as types I and II .

humerusii and the recently described species P. namnetense .Adoption of recA and tly Gene Sequencing as a Typing Tool for P. acnesPrior to the description of recA and tly sequencing analysis of P. acnes typing methods for the bacterium focused on fermentation phage and serological reactions DNA macrorestriction profiling by PFGE and Random Amplification of Polymorphic DNA analysis -.

Collectively such studies started to reveal differences in pathogenic potential between phylogroups and their association with human disease.recA and tly Gene Sequencing to Characterise P. acnes Type Zappe StrainsrecA and tly gene sequence analysis has even been used to characterize strains of the grapevine-associated P. acnes lineage known as P. acnes type Zappe .

Interestingly although P. acnes type Zappe forms a distinctphylogenetic cluster from P. acnes upon 16S rDNA analysis it groups with P. acnes type I strains based on recA and tly sequences.

Furthermore unlike P. acnes the recA gene in P. acnes type Zappe appears to have lost its function during this unusual host switching event possibly reflecting endosymbiosis leading to the accumulation of a large number of non-synonymous mutations in comparison the tly and 16S rRNA genes of P. acnes type Zappe are much more conserved.

These gene sequence characteristics along with the detection of P. acnes type Zappe within plant tissues bark pith and fibres of Xylem vessels provides evidence to support the endophyte nature of this bacterium and tight symbiosis with the plant.Taxonomic LegacyWhen the recA and tly typing methods were first described our understanding of the underlying population genetic structure of P. acnes was poor.

The cutaneous propionibacteria have now also been recently proposed as a novel genera known as Cutibacterium with P. acnes renamed as Cutibacterium acnes .recA and tly Alleles Provide Hints of Conjugal Transfer of Large DNA SegmentsThe subsequent development of more recent molecular typing methods for P. acnes based on multilocus sequence typing MLST schemes discussed later combined with the growing number of available whole genome sequences has provided newer high resolution methods for detailed scrutiny of the population genetic structure of the bacterium.

This is only possible because of the clonal nature of P. acnes and the relatively limited number of genotypes that are found.Multiplex PCRA set of three separate PCR assays for phylogroup typing of P. acnes was originally described in 2006 by Shannon et al.

acnes ribotyping scheme.High Resolution SLST HR-SLSTThe development of a high resolution SLST HR-SLST scheme for P. acnes is clearly desirable since it would reduce the expense and workflow involved in MLST analysis alongside its ability to directly analyze complex biological samples for P. acnes population structure.

