vibrio vulnificus carries the highest mor- tality rate of any foodborne pathogen rippey 1994. more recently we obtained data from covis cholera and other vibrio information service a cdc-dataset that maintains epidemiological data on vibrios in the united states.

vibrio vulnificus possesses a wide array of putative virulence factors including acid neutralization capsular polysac- charide expression iron acquisition cytotoxicity sys- tems motility and expression of proteins involved in attachment and adhesion jones and oliver 2009. however unlike related pathogens such as v. cholerae waldor and mekalanos 1996 and vibrio parahaemoly- ticus bej et al.

1994 sequence determination of rrna genes of patho- genic vibrio species and whole-cell identification of vibrio vulnificus with rrna-targeted oligonucleotide probes.

2010 environmental occurrence and clinical impact of vibrio vulnificus and vibrio parahaemolyticus a european perspective.

2010 climate anomalies and the increasing risk of vibrio parahaemolyticus and vibrio vulnificus illnesses.

blackwood a.d. and noble r.t. 2016 vibrio parahaemolyticus and vibrio vulnificus in south america water seafood and human infections.

vibrio vulnificus is a striking and enigmatic human pathogen yet many aspects related to its biology genomics virulence capabilities and epidemiology remain elusive and poorly understood.

vibrio vulnificus is a serious human pathogen responsible for over 95 of seafood- related deaths in the united states jones and oliver 2009 and carries the highest fatality rate of any food- borne pathogen rippey 1994. a review of 459 u.s. cases reported to the food and drug administration fda between 1992 and 2007 revealed that 51.6 of patients infected with v. vulnificus died jones and oliver 2009. this striking case fatality rate cfr is similar to a range of category biosafety level bsl 3 and 4 patho- gens such as anthrax bubonic plague ebola and mar- burg fever.

vibrio vulnificus is currently subdivided into three biotypes based on genomic biochemical and serological features as well as host range tison et al.

vibrio vulnificus is known to enter a viable butnonculturable state at temperatures below 138c thus the inability to culture the organism at low temperatures does not necessarily mean the cells are not present oliver 2015. within these limits this pathogen occurs in estua- rine environments worldwide but with an increasing inci- dence and geographic distribution due to global climate change paz et al.

b. seasonal distribution of vibrio vulnificus cases reported in the usa 1988-2010 compared to average gulf of mexico sea surface temperature.

similarly although vibrio epidemiological data is not gathered systematically in other countries where only fragmentary surveillance data typically exist most reported infections that have been observed in europe baker-austin et al.

the cdc reported vibrio infectionsincreased by 78 between 1996 and 2006 and in 2005 121 cases of v. vulnificus disease were confirmed cdc 2007. on average there are around 100 cases ingestion and wound reported each year in the united states c. baker-austin unpubl.

the elderly and individuals with pre- disposing risk factors for more progressive vibrio infec- tions such as diabetes immune and blood iron serum conditions may have played some role in amplifying the numbers of v. vulnificus cases over time.

second partici- pation in covis has varied since its inception in 1988 with a gradual increase in state-by-state involvement until all vibrio infections became nationally notifiable in the united states in 2007 newton et al.

