in nature infection of mosquitoes is established through following steps  a female mosquito acquires a blood meal from a mammalian carrier of the virusinitiation of infection by arbovirus-infected blood occurs in the midgutthe virus begins to undergo epidemic diffusion within the midgut epitheliumafter replication and overcoming the midgut escape barrier the arbovirus escapes into the haemolymph and spreads via the haemolymph circulation to other tissuessecondary amplification of the virus occurs in other tissues such as fat bodies muscles and salivary glandsthe virus infects and overcomes the final tissue barrier of sali- vary glandshorizontal transmission occurs via release of the virus to an uninfected vertebrate host with the help of salivary gland pep- tide mixtures.therefore the mosquito midgut haemocoel and salivary glands are the three major regions that are important for virus replication or spreading and serve as the antiviral battlefield in the mosquito.the antiviral machineries in the midgutthe midgut an organ that involved in the rapid digestion of the blood meal and absorption of nutrients is the entrance for arbo- viruses and the initial barrier to prevent viral dissemination.

however it also indicates a number of remaining challenges and questions that must be addressed to fully elucidate the interactions of arboviruses with their mosquito hostsconsidering that there are differences in vector competence between different mosquitoes which immune systems cause the differences in susceptibility resistance and tolerance be- tween different mosquitoesas mosquitoes are equipped with several types of immune machinery that detect and restrict invading arboviruses and maintain a delicate balance how do mosquito immune path- ways interact with each otherregarding population replacement control strategies how can we enhance the antiviral ability of mosquitoes so that they can clear arboviruses in vivo and spread virus resistance genes within the mosquito population in the wildwhat are the mechanisms underlying the production of virus genome-derived pirnas and degradation of viruses via the pirna pathway in mosquitoes and do arbovirus-evasion mechanisms also involve the pirna pathwayas the expression of many mosquito mirnas is undoubtedly influenced by arbovirus infection does alteration of mirna expression play a role in mosquito-arbovirus interactions and if so what mechanisms or target genes are involved in this processhave mosquitoes evolved other unknown systemic or tissue- specific pathways or defence systems for combating arbovirus infectionconcluding remarksmosquito-arbovirus interactions can be viewed as an arms racebetween two armies.

knocking-down negative regulators cactus and caspar of the toll and imd pathways significantly increases the number of lds in the midgut of a. aegypti suggesting that lds may act as antiviral effectors and as downstream factors in the toll and imd pathways .thus although much bioinformatic and experimental evidenceindicates that innate immune signalling pathways are involved in vector-borne virus immune responses how these pathways are activated by the virus and the specific immune factors involvedremain to be further studied.rna interference and antiviral immunityrna interference mediated by small rnas is a major pathway in the mosquito's fight against arboviruses.

dome and hop overexpression inhibited the infection of the midgut and salivary gland tissues by denv type 2 and type 4. interestingly high expression of the key jakstat pathway factors dome and hop does not affect infection by zikv or chikungunya virus chikv suggesting that the antiviral activity of the jakstat pathways may be specific .taken together the studies discussed above imply that the toll imd and jakstat pathways contribute to defence against viral infection in mosquitoes.

this review describes the advances made in understanding various aspects of mosquito antiviral immune molecular mechanisms in detail and explores some of the unresolved issues related to the mosquito immune system.c 2018 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionmosquitoes are one of the most dangerous animals in the world and act as natural vectors of numerous pathogens including plas- modia filaria japanese encephalitis virus dengue virus denv and zika virus zikv.

whether the virus can spread further depends on 1. whether the virus can enter and infect the midgut epithelial cells 2.whether the virus can resist the midgut immune system and replicate in epithelial cells and 3. whether arboviruses can bypass the midgut escape barrier meb to enter the haemocoel and 4. the virion enter the haemocoel directly through the intestinal epithe- lium into the haemolymph.the antiviral machineries in haemocoelonce virions pass through the basal lamina of the midgut epithelium they will spread into the haemocoel  .

specific antiviral mechanisms are described below 1. the aasr-c protein distributed in the haemolymph of a. aegypti func- tions as a pattern recognition receptor to identify and capture invasive virions efficiently 2. an a. aegypti macroglobulin complement-related factor aamcr acts in conjunction with aasr- c 3. the aasr-caamcr complex triggers an unknown immune signalling pathway to induce the expression of antimicrobial pep- tides amps and 4. inactivation of the virus by antiviral amps .the antiviral machineries in salivary glandarboviruses disseminated from the haemocoel must infect the mosquito salivary glands before transmission to the mammalian host.

as natural vectors of arboviruses mosquitoes can be infected by a virus but they have evolved multiple mechanisms to tolerate constant infection and restrict viral replication via their antiviral immune system.

showed that half of the 24 isolated bacte- ria significant decreased the infectivity of the la crosse virus in vero cells .however scientists also found that bacterial infection in gut canchange the susceptibility of mosquitoes to the virus.

small rna interference rnai and several conserved innate im- mune signalling pathways such as the toll immune deficiency imd and janus kinasesignal transducer and activator of tran- scription jakstat pathways constitute the main components of0145-305xc 2018 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.the intrinsic intracellular antiviral mechanisms of mosquitoes.

pipiens with wnv resulted in increased bacterial density and the up-regulation of immune pathways including rnai toll and jak stat pathways which indicates that these bacteria may be involved in the antiviral immune processes of mosquitoes  .

1. the main mosquito innate signalling pathways the toll imd jakstat and complement-like system.constitutes the core of antiviral immunity the toll innate immune signalling pathway also exerts a certain antiviral effect.imd pathwaythe immune deficiency imd pathway is activated by the up- stream peptidoglycan-recognition protein receptors pgpr-lc and pgpr-lg.

the mosquito infection rate virus titre and diffusion efficiency increased signifi- cantly while the mosquito mortality rate also increased verifying that the rnai pathway plays an important role in preventing mosquitoes from significant virus-induced physiological damage.

recent studies have shown that methyltransferase regulation is associatedwith the early infection of drosophila anti-rna virus thus there may be a similar antivirus mechanism in mosquitoes  .third wolbachia competes with pathogens for nutrients and pathogens cannot proliferate once they have been obtained by wolbachia.

hence control of mosquitoes remains the pri- mary approach for limiting viral transmission.although most mosquito-borne viruses can cause significant morbidity and mortality in vertebrates it is generally believed that arbovirus infections are persistent and systemic in mosquitoes  as mosquitoes have evolved a unique efficient immune system that reduces viral replication to nonpathogenic levels.

