classic examples of stable protein-based radical species include the tyrosyl radical of class ia ribonucleotide reductases and the glycyl radical of glycyl radical enzymes gres such as class iii ribonucleotide reductase sun et al.

1992. following product formation the thiyl radical is regenerated which in turn regenerates the glycyl radical for storage until the next round of turnover.similar to adenosylcobalamin adocbl and adomet radical enzymes gres employ a barrel-like architecture to facilitate radical catalysis.

we consider the open questions about each of the five gre classes and evaluate the tools available to interrogate uncharacterized gres.keywordsglycyl radical enzymes radical chemistry anaerobic metabolism pyruvate formate-lyase class iii ribonucleotide reductase choline trimethylamine-lyase benzylsuccinate synthase radical decarboxylasescorresponding author catherine l. drennan massachusetts institute of technology building 68-680 cambridge ma 02139 phone 617-253-5622 fax 617-258-7847.disclosure statementthe authors declare they have no conflicts of interest.

in particular the product radical must re-abstract an h-atom from either 5'-dadoh in the case of an adocbl enzyme or cys-sh in the case of a gre with the former being a more energetically demanding reaction.thus a mechanism that generates a highly reactive product radical species is more important for adocbl-dependent chemistry than it is for gre chemistry and the 12-migration reaction in eal generates a very reactive product radical re-abstraction of an h-atom from 5'-dadoh calculated to be exothermic by 1.2 kcalmol fig.

by generating a substrate-based radical species within the active site gres enable c-c c-o and c- n bond breaking and formation steps that are otherwise challenging for non-radical enzymes.identification of previously unknown family members from genomic data and the determination of structures of well-characterized gres have expanded the scope of gre-catalyzed reactions as well as defined key features that enable radical catalysis.

the product radical is reduced or oxidized to yield the product sometimes regenerating the radical cofactor in the process.

occasionally a protein-based radical rather than a substrate- based radical is generated by the cofactor.

1992.the glycyl radical enzyme gre family is a group of homologous enzymes that employs a post-translationally installed glycyl radical cofactor in order to initiate radical-based chemistry shisler and broderick 2014. the reactions catalyzed by gres are diverse fig.1 and are involved in metabolic pathways including mixed acid fermentation following glycolysis knappe and wagner 1995 dna synthesis sun et al.

2001 annotated as yfid and y06i respectively but similar oxygen-damage repair proteins may exist for other gres as well.gres are activated by members of the s-adenosylmethionine adomet radical superfamily which utilize a reduced 4fe-4s cluster and adomet to generate a glycyl radical on the gly loop of the gre through direct stereospecific hydrogen atom h-atom abstraction fig.

2001 wang and frey 2007. in particular the gre activase reductively cleaves a molecule of adomet that is bound to an 4fe-4s1 cluster to generate a 5'-deoxyadenosyl radical species 5'-dado which in turn generates the glycyl radical on the gre fig.

although formation of a thiyl radical has never been directly detected in gres evidence of a thiyl radical intermediate is available for the closely related class ii rnr from lactobacillus leichmannii licht et al.

firstly they are substantially less reactive than a typical organic radical the adjacent electron- donating nitrogen and electron-accepting carbonyl produces a stabilizing effect by lowering the reduction potential of the glycyl radical referred to as the captodative effect hioe et al.

the glycyl radical is regenerated every turnover making it a suitable radical cofactor for central metabolic processes which require high turnover numbers and flux in order to power cellular energy conservation.gres were recognized early on as important enzymes in cellular energy maintenance and biosynthesis wagner et al.

1999 becker and kabsch 2002. the first step in the mechanism is h-atom abstraction by the gly radical gly734 to form the catalytically essential thiyl radical on cys418 becker et al.

the tetrahedral oxyradical intermediate is expected to collapse forming a cys418 acylated thioester and a formyl radical which is then quenched to formate by cys419 reforming a thiyl radical fig.

