in the in vivo experiment the effects of feeding a whey- and milk-based yogurt prepared with the probiotic strain showing adequate survival in the in vitro experiment was measured on body weight feed con- sumption and immune response of rats igg and iga level after immunisation on the composition and volatile fatty acid production of the intestinal microbiota and on the structure of intestinal villi.

2016 studied the effect of a whey protein concentrate wpc on intestinal integrity and found a greater intestinal vh and in association with the for- mer a better intestinal barrier function.acknowledgementsthis research was supported by the tamop 4.2.2.a- 111konv-2012-0039 project and the bolyai janos research grant of the has bo-499-13 to j. sz-f.conflict of interestthe authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.fig.

66 no 4 483-490original paperphysiological effects of whey- and milk-based probiotic yogurt in ratsjudit szabo-fodor1 andras bonai2 brigitta bota1 linda szommerne egyed2 3 ferenc lakatos3 greta papai2 attila zsolnai2 robert glavits4katalin horvatovich2 and melinda kovacs1 21 mta-ke mycotoxins in the food chain research group2 faculty of agricultural and environmental sciences kaposvar university hungary3 fino food ltd. 4 autopsy ltd.submitted 27 march 2017 revised and accepted 17 may 2017a bs t rac tin an in vitro experiment commercially available probiotic products were tested for the survival of bacteria under conditions of simulated human digestion either when used alone or mixed into yogurt.

the survival of the probiotic strains was tested in their original condition and subsequently after mixing them into a yogurt product.pasteurized raw material milk or a 5050 mix- ture of milk and whey was inoculated with the yogurt culture 0.3 and the propionic strain.

the rats drank about 3 - 8 ml of yogurt each which represented an average daily yogurt intake of 2 dl for a human of average body weight 60 kg.

adding up the average daily feed and yogurt consumption of the rats it can be seen that this was substantially higher than the feed consumption of the control rats which means that the experimental rats consumed the yogurt in addition to the feed that they ate in the same amount as the control rats.immune response.

survival may be different under in vitro and in vivo conditions as in the living organism the survival of bacteria is influenced also by factors as the interaction between the probiotic strains and the natural intestinal microbiota the antimicrobial substances produced by microbes the motility of the intestine and the local immune response holzapfel and schillinger 2002.as the results suggested that probiotic lactobacilli were not present in the small and large intestine in sufficient numbers to exert such effects the physiologi- cal effects found in the experiment can be attributed to bifidobacteria.body weight diet and yogurt drink consumption.

lactis bb-12 improved the composition of the intestinal microflora whereas whey-containing product had a mild immunostimulating effect and exerted a favourable influence on the morphology of intestinal villi.

the general condition of the intestinal mucosa the epithelial layer covering the intestinal villi the structure of the stratum villosum quantitative and qualitative composition of the cells were evaluated.

the length of the intestinal villi and the depth of the intestinal glands crypts were measured by a histometric method using an ocular micrometer.the effect of treatment or treatment and age was determined by one-way and multi-factor analysis of variance respectively spss 10.0 2002. the signifi- cance of between-group differences was tested by the lsd post-hoc test.results and discussionsurvival of the probiotic strains after in vitro simulated digestion.

in addition to the also important bacteroidetes usually making up about 10-50 of the flora and firmicutes strains accountingtable iiicomposition of the small intestinal and caecal microbiota log10 cfu1g ph dry matter and vfa content of the caecal chyme means -sdn 8group 1 cfu  colony forming unit a b c significant difference between groups p 0.05for as much as 75 bifidobacterium strains consti- tute about 10 of the large intestinal microflora.

2005.study of the physiological effects of milk- and whey-based yogurt made with the selected probiotic strains in rats.

three yogurt products were studied amilk-based probiotic mp a milk-based non-pro- biotic product m and a probiotic one made from the 11 mixture of raw milk and whey wp.

the yogurt cultures were added at that tem- perature fvv121 culture 0.01 l. acidophilus cul- ture 0.01 during gentle mixing for 5 minutes.

warm maturation was conducted at 38-42degc for 4-5 hours until the ph reached a value of 4.4. this was followed by cold maturation for 24 hours during which the tem- perature of the yogurt was reduced below 10degc.the probiotic product was made from two commer- cially available products containing b. animalis ssp.

