As an example a preterm neonate who died after receiving a probiotic preparation was found to be infected with mucormycosis possibly due to a tainted batch of product.Additional studies are being done in the United States and Europe that involve ran- domized controlled studies with regulatory agency approval for phase 2 studies.

This study found that there was no evidence for any effect of probiotics when compared with placebo however a limitation is that the probiotic regimens compared across the different studies were not the same.In a systematic review of RCTs by Chmielewska and Szajewskathey evaluated 5 RCTs and found potential benefit but with not enough data to be considered more than investigational.

Although it could be argued that the one probiotic agent used in this study was different than the ones used in previous studies that were eval- uated in the meta-analyses it is also clear from this study that probiotics should not be evaluated as a group.

If safety is proven in the studies and if the regulatory agencies allow these studies are likely to continue with much more extensive phase 3 efficacy studies.

Long-term studies to evaluate this hypothesis are needed.One of the first probiotic studies in neonates involved adding Lactobacillus to for- mula to evaluate the growth of intestinal microorganisms.

Rather if a meta-analysis is to be done it should be done on a single probiotic or discrete group of probiotics used in all of the individual studies that were used in a similar fashion in the studies being meta-analyzed.In terms of the regulatory issues probiotics have not been scrutinized with the same standards as those required for a pharmaceutical agent.

There have been studies that indicated that administration of Bifidobacterium or Lactobacillus did improve colonic transport times in constipated patients.There are many studies that have evaluated probiotic therapy as part of constipation management however overall the results are varied.

The probiotic that has showed a benefit most consistently across studies is Lactobacillus GG.However although probiotics have shown improvement in mild to moderate diarrhea they have not proven to be helpful in severe cases of diar- rhea.There have also been studies evaluating the utility of probiotics in preventingdiarrhea.

All of these changes in practice are known to affect the microbial environment of the gastrointestinal tract and could thereby also affect the incidence of NEC confounding the results of any such studies if incidence of NEC is compared between two different eras.A more recent study done in the United Kingdom by Costeloe and colleagues used one probiotic agent had an a priori hypothesis based on NEC and was adequately powered to evaluate whether this agent would decrease NEC.

They compared 16 RCTs and found that despite the varia- tion in the probiotic strains used across studies there was a protective effect of pro- biotics in preventing AAD.

