The microbiota composi- tion and similarity to control microbiota average correla- tion between the patient microbiota profile and that in controls in the patients were analysed previously 18.

The middle panels represent deviation of microbiota of patients with different C4 genotype groups from microbiota of controls with unknown C4 genotypes 1 5 identical to microbiota of healthy subjects n 5 26 18.

The observation of a 'normal-appearing' microbiota in C4B-deficient IBD patients suggests that the disease aetiol- ogy is related to aberrant host responses to normal micro- biota driving the microbiota into a dysbiotic inflammation-tolerant state rather than the other way around.

Associations of C4A C4B and total C4 gene numbers with a-c microbial diversity d-f similarity to control microbiota and g-i butyrate producers in the faecal samples of the paediatric inflammatory bowel disease PIBD patients of the microbiota study.

The genetically normal situation with the presence of one to two C4B genes in children with inflammatory bowel disease IBD in this study is linked to a stronger complement activation intestinal inflammation and lower diversity in microbiota.

The gut microbiota shapes intestinal immune responses during health and disease.

Multiple copies of the C4B gene may thus aggravate the IBD- associated dysbiosis through escalated complement reactivity towards the microbiota.Keywords C4 gene number complement activation microbiota paediatric IBDIntroductionUlcerative colitis Crohn's disease and unclassified colitis constitute the major forms of chronic inflammatory bowel disease IBD.

Patients were invited to the Complement Study based ontheir C4B genotype gene number to obtain enough patients in each genotype group.The severity of the PIBD disease course was evaluated from the patient charts and classified by physicians' global assessment into three categories class 1 as mild no regular medication needed class 2 regular medication with good disease control need of immune suppressants andor bio- logical medications as moderate or class 3 poor disease control as severe.

Disease aetiology is therefore thought to involve perturbed host-microbiota interactions due either toabnormal reactions to the normal microbiota or aberrant microbiota development eliciting inflammatory host responses 5.The complement system has a critical role in maintain- ing the tissue homeostasis by eliminating excess bacteria and cellular debris.

We also found that PIBD patients deficient in C4B fewer than two C4B genes recovered poorly after surgery 15.Studies of intestinal microbiota with IBD patients have shown a decreased bacterial diversity and changes in microbiota composition in the faecal samples and colonic biopsies compared to healthy controls 16-18.

