finally although age range-dependent sex differences have been reported in relation to the incidence of type 1 diabetes no difference was found in baseline characteristics.group characteristics expressed as mean - sd or median iqr with p-value using independent t-test for parametric and mann-whitney test for non- parametric data.inflammatory parameters or short-chain fatty acids between males and females in either group.fecal and oral microbiota compositiona difference in fecal microbiota beta diversity was seen as depicted by rda plot  while there was no significant in alpha diversity shannon's diversity index in t1d n  45 versus controls n  35. regarding fecal microbiota on the level of individual taxa only one genus and one family were significantly different p0.05 between the groups christensenella p  0.015 and rhodospirillales p  0.009 whereas the adjusted q-values did not remain sig- nificant when applying the elastic net algorithm to identify intestinal bacterial species most discriminating as a group between t1d and controls we could identify several fecal and oral species with high sensitivity auc 0.88 that were predictive to belong to either the t1d or the hc group and .

in contrast bacteroidetes and proteobacteria phyla were significantly increased in controls including pasteurellaceaeq  0.032. in contrast with fecal microbiota we found no significant correlations between oral microbiota and glycemic control inflammatory parameters or short-chain fatty acids.discussionrecent studies have linked altered fecal microbiota composition to the recent rise in many immunological disorders including t1d.

especially the observed differences in oral microbiota are of interest in view of recent human studies suggest- ing a link between oral microbiota and microbiota in the small intestine which is believed to be the culprit site in t1d development.supporting informations1 fig.

oral and fecal microbiota fecal and plasma scfa levels markers of intestinal inflammation fecal iga and calprotectin and markers of low-grade systemic inflammation were measured.resultsoral microbiota were markedly different in t1d eg abundance of streptococci compared to hc.

in patients with longstanding t1d we now report that oral as well as fecal microbiota are altered compared to healthy matched controls.while previous studies reported a decrease in alpha diversity in young adolescent t1d we only found significant changes in beta diversity in both fecal and oral microbiota in our well-controlled longstanding t1d patients which is in line with a previous smaller study in longstanding t1d.

differences in a fecal and b oral microbiota composition as depicted by a biplot of redundancy analysis rda axis 1 vs. axis 2 constrained by t1d or controls.in line with a recent study in non-obese diabetic nod mice that showed an inverse correla- tion with key features of t1d and plasma blood scfa concentrations whereas diet containing most discriminating fecal genera from elastic net analysis.mean relative abundance percentage of subjects harboring species and ratio of most discriminating fecal microbiota from our predictive models analysis.

relative abundances of most discriminating fecal microbiota resulting from our elastic net analysis for a t1d patients and b healthy controls b. most discriminating oral genera from elastic net analysis.mean relative abundance percentage of subjects harboring species and ratio of most discriminating oral microbiota from our predictive models analysis.

in contrast to fecal microbiota we observed a much stronger oral microbiota signature including streptococcus in t1d subjects.

however our population had good glycemic control without diabetes complications and no correlations were seen between significantly different oral or fecal taxa and hba1c.finally as we did not perform hla typing we cannot provide data on the potential relation between hla type and intestinal microbiota composition in t1d.in conclusion our study reveals that intestinal microbiota are different in well-controlled subjects with longstanding t1d compared to matched healthy controls.

in this respect we are currently executing a fecal microbiota transplantation study in new onset t1d which may provide more insight into potential causality of small intestinal microbiota and their metabolites in this autoimmune disease.

research articledistinct fecal and oral microbiota composition in human type 1 diabetes an observational studypieter f. de groot1 clara belzer2 o mru m aydin1 evgeni levin1 johannes h. levels1 steven aalvink2 fransje boot1 frits holleman1 danie l h. van raalte34 torstenp.

2017 distinct fecal and oral microbiota composition in human type 1 diabetes an observational study.

both animal and human studies have shown an association between altered fecal microbiota composition impaired production of short-chain fatty acids scfa and t1d onset.

however observational evidence on scfa and fecal and oral microbiota in adults with longstanding t1d vs healthy controls hc is lacking.research design and methodswe included 53 t1d patients without complications or medication and 50 hc matched for age sex and bmi.

accordingly an increased amount of pathogenic bacterial species has been observed in fecal samples of t1d patients around time of diagnosis and an altered composition of the fecal microbiota composition was observed in adolescent t1d patients.

