Control plants sterile were treated with PBS in the same way.VOC Collection and Analyses VOCs were collected from 19 sterile and eight inoculated plants as well as from three plants grown under greenhouse conditions by using the dynamic headspace methods as described earlier Etl et al.

Robert R. Junker 1 Department of Ecology and Evolution University of Salzburg Hellbrunnerstrasse 34 5020 Salzburg AustriaIn order to test the effect of bacteria on floral scent emis- sions we compared VOCs of plants cultivated under sterile conditions and of plants cultivated under sterile conditions and inoculated with defined bacterial communities three days prior to floral scent collection.

After VOC sampling bacterial abundances on flowers were checked by isolating bacterial strains from flowers as de- scribed above.Statistical Analyses In order to test for differences in VOCs of sterile and inoculated plants we performed a random forest analysis ntree  10000 bootstrap samples with mtry  6 com- pounds randomly selected at each node using the R package randomForest.

Samples taken from greenhouse-grown plants which harbored a more natural bac- terial community than the flowers inoculated with ourartificial community also differed from the experimentally treated plants Fig.

However the lack of many compounds in the greenhouse samples as well as the higher emission rates of other compounds Table  demonstrate that sterile plants do emit different bouquets of VOCs than plants with a natural microbiome.

First bacteria induce volatile emissions in plants in response to pathogen attack and avirulent bacterial strains Huang et al.

Alternatively they might be synthesized by the plants as a response to bacterial colonization or be breakdown-products of plant VOCs.

By comparing volatiles of sterile and inoculated plants we found that bacteria may add components induce or reduce the emission of compounds and potentially catabolize others.

A study on Sambucus nigra plants showed that flowers after treatment with antibiotics release proportionally altered and reduced emission rates of terpenes suggesting that bacteria influence floral scent emissions Penuelas et al.

Second bacteria were shown to utilize plant VOCs as carbon source and their catabolism subsequently adds new com- pounds to the plants' scent Del Giudice et al.

