both diet suspensions were autoclaved frozen for storage and vortexed corresponding author.e-mail address a.a. mushegian.received 3 february 2017 received in revised form 31 july 2017 accepted 31 july 20170944-2006c2017elseviergmbh.allrightsreserved.table 1analysis of variance results for log-transformed body size at day 7.conventionalized animals had opposite responses to the experimental diets with a highly significant microbiota x diet interaction   p  0.001. conventionalized animals had better health as determined by size  and fecundity on the algae diet than on theyeast diet.

the fact that their relative benefit for daphnids was reversed between bacteria-free and conventionalized animals suggests that one of these diets is not inherently superior to the other but rather that the limiting factor for daphnia growth on each diet varies depending on the pre- sence of microbiota.a plausible explanation for our results consistent with previous studies  is that the benefits of an algal diet are only accessible to animals associated with bacteria for example because bacteria are involved in specialized digestive processes.

we find that the effects of two different experimental diets algae and yeast on the water flea daphnia magna depend on whether the animals possess microbiota suggesting that the presence of microbiota determines which diet is superior.

several studies comparing bac- teria-free and symbiotic daphnia specimens have independently shown strong fitness costs of the absence of bacteria on daphnia life history   but the exact fitness consequences have varied between ex- periments.

the pattern in daphnia is consistent with the explanation that one of the roles of their microbiota is to facilitate extraction of nutritional benefits from a plant-based diet.

germ-free daphnids that are unable to efficiently utilize this diet might not benefit from its greater availability.we hypothesized that there would be strong diet-dependent effects of microbiota on daphnia under qualitatively as well as quantitatively different diets because of the different functional roles that microbiota would be required to fulfill in each dietary condition.

box plots show median and 25th and 75th percentiles whiskers represent points falling within the1.5 x interquartile range.corresponding conventionalized animals on both diets tukey's honest significant difference test p  10-7 for algae diet p  10-6 for yeast diet indicates that the main beneficial effect of the microbiota is independent of the diets tested.

we previously found that under some conditions bacteria can have a positive effect on daphnia even during embryonic development  suggesting that a multitude of processes may be sensitive to bacterial presence.while our experiments used the extreme state of bacteria-free ani- mals the combination of diet-dependent and diet-independent effects suggests that not merely the presence of bacteria but natural variation in the bacterial community may affect daphnia phenotype and fitness for example if different bacterial strains are responsible for different general and diet-specific effects.

short communicationpresence of microbiota reverses the relative performance of daphnia on two experimental dietsalexandra a. mushegian dieter ebertzoological institute universitat basel vesalgasse 1 ch-4056 basel switzerlanda r t i c l e i n f o keywords symbiosis nutrition water flea algae fitnessa b s t r a c t the outcomes of host-symbiont interactions may differ according to environmental context and symbioses may enable host adaptation to diverse environments.

our study hints at both diet-dependent and diet-independent effects of microbiota on daphnia fitness.introductionin many host-symbiont systems the extent of the fitness benefit provided by symbiosis compared to a non-symbiotic state varies de- pending on environmental factors.

accordingly experi- ments with microbiota-free hosts aiming to elucidate the function of the microbiota in host fitness should be conducted under diverse conditions .the water flea daphnia magna straus is an aquatic crustacean that has long been a model for diverse host-microbe interactions.

in natural settings daphnia is colonized with gut bacteria and epibionts  .

thus in drosophila the food x microbiota in- teraction appears to result from more severe costs of poor nutrition for germ-free than symbiotic animals whereas in daphnia increasing food abundance results in more sharply increasing benefits in symbiotic than in bacteria-free conditions.

to test this we fed germ-free and conventionalized animals with scenedesmus algae and baker's yeast.materials and methodsdetailed methods for daphnia magna husbandry can be found in sison-mangus et al.

2015. briefly genetically diverse diapausing eggs from a natural population of d. magna were decapsulated and surface- sterilized allowed to develop in either sterile medium or medium supplemented with bacteria and then were transferred into sterile medium and fed sterile food.experimental diets in this study were the green alga scenedesmus obliquus produced in a chemostat and commercially available active dry baker's yeast re-activated in daphnia medium adam.

