Although IL- 17A augmentation before infection by either vaccination or the mod- ulation of the intestinal microbiome made the host resistant to in- testinal amebiasis the roles of the IL-17A endogenously induced during the natural course of E. histolytica infection remain to be clarified.In this study we have investigated the role of IL-17A during E.histolytica infection using IL-17A knockout KO and wild-type WT mice in a CBAJ background as C57BL6 mice are resistant to amebae infection .

As fol- lowing previous paper primer sequences were 5' ACTCTTCATCCACCTCACACGA 3' for IL-17A common 5' CAGCATCAGAGACTAGAAGGGA 3' for IL-17A WT and 5' GCCATGATATAGACGTTGTGGC 3' for IL-17A mutation .

These results indicate that in the absence of IL-17A the IFN-gIL-4 ratio increased.Alteration in the infiltrating cells in the IL-17A KO miceBecause IL-17A is a chemoattractant for neutrophils the numbers of neutrophils monocytes and dendritic cells were determined in the lamina propria of each mouse.

Therefore IL-17A contributes to the persistence of E. histolytica and modulates the immune response including the IFN-gIL-4 ratio which may be responsible for the reduction of the parasite burden in the IL-17A knockout mice during the chronic phase of intestinal amebiasis.IntroductionAmebiasis is an infectious disease caused by Entamoeba histolytica an anaerobic protozoan parasite and is a major public health problem worldwide particularly in areas with inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene .

An increase in IL-17A was also observed when mice were vaccinated with a recombinant LecA fragment of the E. histolytica surface GalGalNAc lectin  and the blockade of IL-17A from 1 day before to 4 days after challenge abro- gated the protective effect induced by the vaccine .

P  0.05.ResultsEntamoeba histolytica numbers reduced in IL-17A KO mice in week 4 but not in week 1 post-infectionTo clarify the role of IL-17A during intestinal amebiasis WT and IL- 17A KO CBAJ mice were challenged intracecally with 2 x 106 tro- phozoites and sacrificed at week 1 or 4 post-infection.

However in week 4 the WT ceca were highly inflamed whereas the inflammation score was significantly lower in the IL-17A KO mice E F and G.IFN-g expression was significantly higher in KO mice than in WT but induction of IL-4 expression was much lower in KO mice in week 4 after infection with E. histolyticaTo investigate why the IL-17A KO mice displayed fewer E. histolytica than the WT in week 4 we evaluated the expression levels of cytokine mRNAs.

In week 1 the induction of IL-12p19 was significantly lower in the IL-17A KO mice 5.6-fold than in the WT 18.1-fold F. It was also lower in the KO mice 9.0-fold than in the WT 32.3-fold in week 4 but the difference was not statistically significant.In week 4 two IL-17A KO mice were uninfected or recovered fromthe infection.

Considering the protective roles of neutrophils in the early stage of E. histolytica infection and the impact of IL-17A on the accumulation of neutrophils we expected that a lack of IL-17A would increase the number of E. histolytica in the gut by reducing the accumulation of neutrophils.

Moreover during Toxoplasma gondii infection the absence of IL-17RA a receptor for both IL-17A and IL-17F which binds to IL-17A with higher affinity enhanced the IFN-g response causing exaggerated in- flammation in the infected organs and increased mortality .

