cegir under the auspices of the rare disease clinical research network rdcrn an initiative of the office of rare diseases research ordr at the national center for advancing translational sciences ncats nih was established in 2014 to overcome these handicaps and facilitate research and training on egids.

cegir includes many pags as research partners including the american partnership for eosinophilic diseases apfed g campaign urging research for eosinophilic dis- ease cured g and the eosinophilic family coalition efc g. these pags work to educate patients and support research aimed at improving treatment and cures for eosinophil-associated diseases and their complications.

the rare diseases clinical research network's organization and approach to observational research and health outcomes research j gen intern med 29suppl 3 2014 s739-s744.j.

translational science of rare diseases 2 2017 141-155 doi 10.3233trd-170016ios pressoriginal researchcreating a multi-center raredisease consortium - the consortiumof eosinophilic gastrointestinal disease researchers cegir141katherine chenga sandeep k. guptab susanna kantorc jonathan t. kuhld seema s. acevese peter a. bonisf kelley e. capocellig christina carpenterh mirna chehadei margaret h. collinsj evan s. dellonk gary w. falkl rashmigopal-srivastavam nirmala gonsalvesn ikuo hiranoo eileen c. kingp john leungq jeffrey p. krischerr vincent a. mukkadas alain schoepfert jonathan m. spergelualex straumannv guang-yu yangw glenn t. furutaxy and marc e. rothenbergdadepartment of pediatrics indiana university school of medicine indianapolis in usabdepartment of pediatric gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition university of illinoiscollege of medicine peoria il usacdepartment of pediatric gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition children's hospitalcolorado denver co usaddivision of allergy and immunology cincinnati children's hospital medical centercincinnati oh usaedivision of allergy and immunology department of pediatrics and medicineuniversity of california san diego ca usaf division of gastroenterology tufts medical center boston ma usagdepartment of pathology children's hospital colorado denver co usahhealth informatics institute rare diseases clinical research network tampa fl usa imount sinai center for eosinophilic disorders icahn school of medicine at mount sinainew york ny usajdivision of pathology cincinnati children's hospital medical center cincinnati oh usa kdepartment of gastroenterology and hepatology university of north carolina at chapelhill school of medicine chapel hill nc usaldivision of gastroenterology university of pennsylvania perelman school of medicinephiladelphia pa usamoffice of rare diseases research national center for advancing translational sciencesnational institute of health bethesda md usandivision of gastroenterology  hepatology northwestern university the feinberg schoolof medicine chicago il usacorresponding author sandeep k. gupta 530 ne glen oak avenue north building room 6646 peoria il 61637 usa.

the cegir eab assists by providing an external and objective performance review of the cegir initiatives in the realms of research training administration individual site performance and expansion to other medical research centers.table 1current projects in cegircoreproject titlediseaseprimary investigatorsprimary siteclinical triala prospective multicenter studyto compare and validate endoscopic histologic molecular andpatient-reported outcomes in pediatric and adult patients with eoe eg and ec omegaeoe eg ecdrs.

girish hirematharkansas children'sthere are three main components to cegir clinical research projects for observa- tionallongitudinal studies further divided into project 1 and project 2 pilotdemonstration clinical research program and training career development program.

the dmcc is particularly helpful in developing templates for protocols and works closely with the medical offi- cer from niaid of cegir and the investigators to ensure data compliance and generate data reports.clinical research projects for observationallongitudinal studiesthis component has two projects that were established to define diagnostic and clinical features of these disorders validate clinical outcome metrics identify biomarkers and optimize therapy.clinical research project 1 outcome measures for eosinophilic gastrointestinal diseases across ages omegathis prospective multi-center study aims to determine the best tools for diagnosing and monitoring disease characteristics.

endpoints in this study include the percentage of patients whose disorder evidences histologic remission distribution of patients within a histology-based scoring system including remodeling markers and changes in com.pilotdemonstration clinical research programthe pilotdemonstration clinical research program supports new ideas by sponsoring pilot projects.

the pilot research projects address novel areas of research pertaining to egids.

since 2014 five cegir trainees have been selected from 31 applicants and there are several active projects being spearheaded by these trainees table 2. three of the current physician-trainees are or have been supported by nih k08 grants.the training career development program takes advantage of cegir resources and opportuni- ties available at each site to create an environment that trains new investigators not only in clinical research but also in the challenges common to the research of rare diseases through a series of lec- tures webinars and discussions.

besides research the training component is essential to stimulate promote and nurture the next generation of investigators' interest in the field.although still in its early stage cegir has already enabled the study of a group of rare diseases through the creation of a collaborative environment and opportunities to participate and generate numerous research projects.

the cohesiveness and productivity within this consortium along with lessons learned as outlined in this review is a model for other potential multi-center consortia.acknowledgmentscegir u54 ai117804 is part of the rare disease clinical research network rdcrn an initia- tive of the office of rare diseases research ordr ncats and is co-funded by niaid niddk and ncats.

the rare diseases clinical research network rdcrn a program of the national center for advancing translational sciences ncats funded the consortium of eosinophilic gastrointestinal disease researchers cegir in 2014 to advance the field of egids.

this review focuses on cegir's operating model and progress and how it facilitates a framework for exchange of ideas and stimulates research and innovation.

consensus has not been achieved on optimal cutoff values to confidently establish normal variations in eosinophil density 20 40. the esophagus is an exception since eosinophils are absent in the healthy esophagus making histologic assessment of eoe lesschallenging 40. finally increased numbers of mucosalepithelial eosinophils are not pathognomonic for eoe ege or ec as mucosal eosinophilia can be seen in other diseases including reflux esophagitis parasitic infestations rheumatologic conditions and inflammatory bowel disease 25 45. the current proposed diagnostic criteria used by cegir for eg ege and ec entails histologic findings of at least twice the upper limit of normal for eosinophils per high-power field hpf reported in affected segments of the gastrointestinal tract 6 26 27.patient advocacy groups pags are also increasing national attention for these disorders with calls for national institutes of health nih research funding and government support e.g.

