these cohorts table s1 include i 11 fresh- frozen primary colorectal cancers and paired liver metastases frozen paired cohort ii 77 fresh-frozen primary colorectal cancers with de- tailed recurrence information frozen primary cohort iii published data from 430 resected fresh-frozen colon carcinomas from the cancer genome atlas 26 tcga cohort together with data from 201 resected fresh-frozen hepatocellular carcinomas from tcga 27  iv 101 formalin- fixed paraffin-embedded colorectal carcinomas and paired liver metastases ffpe paired cohort and v 13 fresh primary colorectal cancers usedwith 99.9 average nucleotide identity despite the tissue being collected months p2 or even years p1 apart fig.

s15.we have shown that i fusobacterium is per- sistently associated with distant metastases from primary human colorectal cancers ii invasive fusobacterium can be detected in liver metastases by ish iii fusobacterium co-occurs with other gram-negative anaerobes in primary and matched metastatic tumors iv fusobacterium survives in colorectal cancer pdxs through multiple genera- tions and v treatment ofa fusobacterium-harboring pdx model with the antibiotic metronidazole decreases fusobacterium load cancer cell prolif- eration and tumor growth.the persistence of fusobacterium and its asso- ciated microbiome in both metastasis and pdxs as well as the ability of antibiotic treatment to reduce pdx growth point to the potential of fusobacterium and its associated microbiotato contribute to colorectal cancer growth and metastasis.

is supported by the project p fund for colorectal cancer research stand-up-to- cancer colorectal cancer dream team the chambersfamily fund for colorectal cancer research the team perry fund and the clark family fund for gi cancer researchs.b.

our finding of nearly identical viable fusobacterium strains in matched primary and metastatic colo- rectal cancers confirms the persistence of viable fusobacterium species through the metastatic pro- cess and suggests that fusobacterium species may migrate with the colorectal cancer cells to the metastatic site.to quantitate the relative abundance of fuso- bacterium and to evaluate the overall microbiome in the paired primary and metastatic tumors we performed rna sequencing of 10 primary cancers and their matched liver metastases from the frozen paired cohort p1 to p6 and p8 to p11.

in contrast therewas little similarity between bacterial sequences in the primary colorectal cancer and liver meta- stasis in the lone sample where fusobacterium was present in the primary cancer but not de- tected in the metastasis fig.

feeding mice with fusobacterium 16-18 infection of colorectal cancer cell lines with fusobacterium 19-21 and generation of xenografts derived from fusobacterium-infected colorectal cancer cell1dana-farber cancer institute harvard medical school boston ma 02115 usa.

representative images of f. nucleatum spatial distribution in paired samples from p187 primary colorectal tumor a and b and liver metastasis e and f and p188 primary colorectal tumor c and d and liver metastasis g and h from the ffpe paired cohort are shown.

arrows indicate cells with histomorphology consistent with that of colon cancer cells infected by invasive f. nucleatum reddots in both primary colorectal tumors b and d and matched liver metastases f and h. fusobacterium-containing biofilm bf is highlighted in the colorectal tumor of p187 a. fusobacterium was not detected in normal liver nl tissue e and f. s stroma.

the samples are separated into three groups fusobacterium-positive primary tumor and metastases n  6 pairs fusobacterium-positive primary tumor and fusobacterium-negative metastases n  1 pair and fusobacterium-negative primary tumor and metastases n  3 pairs.

this finding extends previous results showing the presence of fusobacterium nucleic acids in hepatic and lymph node metastases of colon cancer 7 22 28 to now demonstrate that viable fusobacterium species are present in dis- tant metastases.to address whether the same fusobacterium is present in primary cancers and metastases we performed whole-genome sequencing of pure fusobacterium isolates from primary and meta- static tumors from two patients p1 and p2.

necrophorum isolated from paired primary colorectal tumor cp and liver metastasis lm of p1 and f. nucleatum isolate cultured from paired primary tumors and liver metastasis of p2.

we found that 43 n  44 of 101 of primary colorectal cancers tested positive for fusobacterium by qpcr and 45 n  20 of 44 of liver metastases arising from these primary tumors were fusobacterium- positive fig.

this analysis demonstrated that fusobacterium is rare in primary liver carcinomas and that the relative abundance of fusobacterium is significantly enriched in liver metastases arising from colorectal cancers compared with primary liver cancers p  0.008 fig.

scale bars 500 mm in a c e andg 250 mm in b d f and h.genera were shared between primary and meta- static colorectal cancers and also correlated with fusobacterium abundance in primary colon ade- nocarcinoma fig.

s3.to investigate the relationship between fusobacterium and cancer recurrence we per- formed microbial culture and bacterial 16s rrna gene sequencing in a blinded fashion on the fro- zen primary cohort of 77 snap-frozen colorectal cancers lacking paired metastases n  21 with recurrence n  56 without recurrence table s4.

