fmt-2-0 denotes treatment fmt or vancomycin the assigned number of each patient and days on treatment 0  baseline 3  3 days on treatment 7  7 days on treatment.

fmt-5-0 denotes treatment fmt or vancomycin the assigned number of each patient and days on treatment 0  baseline 3  3 days on treatment 7  7 days on treatment.

patients in the current study however were hospitalized at the time of treatment and even though they had not received treatment for cdi they were currently receiving or had recently received other antimicrobials for the treatment of infec- tious diseases other than cdi.

treatment failure and recurrence of clostridium difficile infection following treatment with vancomycin or metronidazole a sys- tematic review of the evidence.

fmt has shown to be a safer and more effective treatment than a prolonged vancomycin regimen in recurrent cdi cases with clinical efficacies of 90 vs. 26 in one study  and 94 vs. 23 in another study .

to date there are no reports on the use of fmt as initial treatment for cdi in hospitalized patients.the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of fmt-furm as first-line therapy of c. difficile infection in intestinal microbiome.material and methodsinformed consentthe study was reviewed and approved by the local ethics committee of the school of medi- cine of the universidad auto'noma de nuevo leo'n approval if14-005.

in this scenario we intend to perform a long-term follow-up study in our patients.overall our results revealed that the microbiome in the healthy donors' pool was different from the microbial composition of all the patient samples regardless of treatment age the number of transplants etc.the average age of the donors 23.7 years was lower than the mean age of the patients 46.7 years in vancomycin group and 39.7 years in fmt group.

thus the small perturbation observed in this community may be indicative of less damage to the microbiome and may have contributed to efficacy in this therapy group.apart from the fact that fmt-furm was performed as an initial treatment for cdi there are two additional interesting points that distinguish our study from other standard fmt treatments.

given that the baseline and modifying factors are so different between the traditional fmt patients and our population treatment response rates and microbiome changes should be carefully evaluated.

we speculate that the exposure to antibiotics before andor after fmt-furm treatment negatively influ- enced the resolution of cdi even after re-transplantation.it has been widely described the use of more than one infusion of fmt in the failure ofresponse with up to four times for recurrent or unresolved symptoms.

to our knowledge this is the first study to investigate the effect on fecal microbiota of fmt as a first-line treatment for cdi.supporting informations1 file.

except for 1 cases day-0 and day-3 samples from patient 10 fmt group drug susceptibility did not differ between isolates of days 0 and 3. demographic and main clinical characteristics of patients in vancomycin and fmt-furm groups.vancomycin groupfmt-furmca carcinoma ckd chronic kidney disease cvd cerebrovascular disease dm2 type 2 diabetes fmt transplantation of fecal microbiota hd hemodialysis los length of stay po postoperative sle systemic lupus erythematosus tb tuberculosis v vancomycin.a patient that failed to recover from infection in the vancomycin group patient 14 had ac.

in a multicenter long-term follow-up study of fmt for recurrent cdi 7794 eligible patients were contacted and 4 patients had developed new disorders after fmt peripheral neuropathy sjogren's disease idiopathicaverage bacterial composition at the phylum level.

cdi resolution was considered when there was a reduction on the bristol scale of at least 2 points a reduction of at least 50 in the number of bowel movements absence of fever and resolution of abdominal pain at least two criteria.from each patient a fecal sample was obtained at days 0 3 and 7 after treatment.

hospital-acquired cdi increases the absolute risk of in-hospital mortality over 10 .according to the most recent guidelines  the standard treatment for the first episode of cdi or first recurrence of mild or moderate cdi is metronidazole.

