k. pneumoniae st147 is an emerging high-risk clone associated with several types of carbapenemases .table 1 molecular characterization of oxa-48-producing k. pneumoniae and e. coli isolates and carbapenem-susceptible e. coli isolates collected from the same fecal samples of nine patientsaa conjugation assay was carried out with isolates from the same patient using oxa-kpn as the donor and cs-eco as the recipient one assay per patient was performed.

letter to the editorinterspecies transmission of the blaoxa-48 gene from a klebsiella pneumoniae high-risk clone of sequence type 147 to different escherichia coli clones in the gut microbiotacarmen potela adriana ortegabc lucia martinez-lamasa veronica bautistabc benito regueiroa bcaservicio de microbiologia complejo hospitalario universitario de vigo vigo spainblaboratorio de referencia e investigacion en resistencia a antibioticos e infecciones relacionadas con la asistencia sanitaria centro nacional de microbiologia majadahonda madrid spaincspanish network for research in infectious diseases reipi rd16ciii00040002 instituto de salud carlos iii madrid spainkeywords interspecies transmission oxa-48 molecular epidemiologyxa-48-producing klebsiella pneumoniae oxa-kpn isolates have quickly spread in spain and other european countries .

remarkably this concordance supports the hypothesis that blaoxa-48 was transferred from k. pneumoniae st147 to cs-eco isolates of the gut microbiota .all oxa-kpn and oxa-eco isolates harbored an 65-kb inclm plasmid carrying the blaoxa-48 gene .

how-ever few published studies have examined this assumed transfer  .at the complejo hospitalario universitario de vigo a 700-bed tertiary care teaching hospital northwest spain the isolation of oxa-kpn increased from 1.8 of k. pneu- moniae isolates in 2014 to 14.9 in 2016. the aims of this study were i to determine the prevalence in the gut of colonization by both oxa-kpn and oxa-48-producing e. coli oxa-eco in 1244 admitted patients in 2016 and ii to characterize the population structures of oxa-kpn oxa-eco and the predominant carbapenem-susceptible e. coli cs-eco isolates in the gut microbiota of nine patients with double colonization identified in may 2016.rectal swabs were plated onto chromid carba smart and macconkey agar plates biomerieux marcy l'etoile france.

all nine k. pneumoniae isolates coproduced both oxa-48 and ctx-m-15 by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis pfge  they showed a genetic linkage of 90 with all of them belonging to sequence type 147 st147 by multilocus sequence typing mlst .

oxa-kpn oxa-48-producing k. pneumoniae oxa-eco oxa-48-producing e. coli cs-eco carbapenem-susceptible e. coli nd not determined.the nine oxa-eco isolates did not produce esbls and belonged to 8 sts  .

the blaoxa-48 gene was carried by the composite transposon tn1999.2 .conjugation was attempted with the nine oxa-kpn isolates as donors and cs-eco isolates from each patient as recipients transconjugants harboring blaoxa-48 but not blactx-m-15 were obtained in seven of the nine conjugation assays.

the major hypothesis regarding the cause of this multispecies dissemination is the transfer of plasmids bearing blaoxa-48 from k. pneumoniae.

these results suggest that these highly preserved plasmids move not only between different k. pneumoniae strains but also between different species sharing the same ecological niche and that these plasmids might be the basis of oxa-48-producing multispecies outbreaks.these results were presented in part at the microbe 2017 conference of the american society for microbiology in new orleans la usa .acknowledgmentsthis work was supported by plan nacional de idi 2013-2016 and the instituto de salud carlos iii subdireccion general de redes y centros de investigacion cooperativaministerio de economia industria y competitividad spanish network for research in infectious diseases grant reipi rd16ciii00040002 and cofinanced by the european development regional fund a way to achieve europe operative program intelligent growth 2014 to 2020. this work was also supported by a grant from the instituto de salud carlos iii grant mpy 113516 by the antibiotic resistance surveillance program of the centro nacional de microbiologia instituto de salud carlos iii ministerio de economia y competitividad of spain and by a grant from the agencia espanola de medicamentos y productos sanitarios grant meg 128114.we have no conflicts of interest to declare.referencesnordmann p poirel l. 2014. the difficult-to-control spread of carbapen- emase producers among enterobacteriaceae worldwide.

.fernandez j poirel l rodicio mr nordmann p. 2016. concomitant and multiclonal dissemination of oxa-48-producing klebsiella pneumoniae in a spanish hospital.

2017. an outbreak of ndm-1-producing klebsiella pneumoniae in a dutch hospital with inter-species transfer of the resistance plasmid and unexpected occurrence in unrelated healthcare centers.

2011. the characteristics of ndm-producing klebsiella pneumoniae from canada.

