indicates patients who went into remission at 2 weeks  indicates patients who went into remission at 6 weeks.compositional changes in microbiotaprincipal coordinate analysis pcoa was undertaken for all samples following analysis through application of bray-curtis dissimilarity 4a bc compositional dissimilarity between samples unweighted unifrac 4b uu diversity between samples incorporating relative relatedness and weighted unifrac 4c wu diversity between samples incorporating relative relatedness and relative abundance.both bray-curtis and unifrac pcoa revealed high similarity between patient 1 at diagnosis and their sibling control and patient 3 at diagnosis and their sibling control.patients with cd or uc showed a distinct shift on pcoa bc uu and wu from diagnosis to treatment.

these 21 samples were characterized for microbiome composition fecal calprotectin and scfa concen- trations 18 ibd 3 sibling controls.disease activity and treatmentdisease activity and remission was assessed by physician assessment and subsequently in conjunction with fecal calpro- tectin levels 1. fecal calprotectin is a marker protein for colonic inflammation which can be stably detected in feces.patients were treated with either een modulen nestle switzerland or corticosteroid therapy depending on disease type and site in accordance with national guidelines.2223 in all cases treatment was started within 24 hours of diagnosis based on endoscopy findings.microbial composition analysisa heatmap of common genera produced by bray-curtis dissimilarity see below can be seen in 2. this details the most common species seen across all samples and the relationship between samples and bacteria.figure 1. changes in fecal calprotectin across time.

for example the metabolic pathway associated with purine metabolism first pathway on x-axis displayed the greatest loss of function in tn samples compared to both control samples and samples from patients in remission.

a unit of 10 ml of phosphate buffered saline30 glycerol solution was added and samples were further homogenized using sterile glass beads and vortex these samples were then frozen immediately at-80 degc in 450-ml aliquots.dna extraction and 16s rrna gene sequencingdeoxyribonucleic acid dna was extracted using mp biomedi- cal santa ana california feces extraction kit following the manufacturer's instructions.

all patients provided fecal samples before commencement of bowel preparation for diagnostic endoscopy and further fecal samples at 2 weeks median 14 days range 12-25 days and 6 weeks median 41 days range 36-49 days after commence- ment of treatment.

comparison of tn patients at diagnosis with control samples and with samples from the patients in remission showed significantly different metabolic function across the 147 kegg pathways identified as assessed by gene copy number p .038 and .027 respectively .

please refer to supplementary table 1 for clarification of kegg pathways and exact gene copy number differences.short chain fatty acid analysisthe fecal samples were analyzed for scfa content patient 5's 6- week sample was unsuccessful 6. in all samples the predominant scfas were acetate propionate and butyrate in that order of abundance.

genes involved in both amino acid biosynthesis and metabolism and carbohydrate metabolism specifically starch sucrose fructose and mannose metabolism were less abundant in the pretreat- ment samples when the disease was active than in the later samples taken during remission.

high concentrations of lactate which has been implicated in uc were observed in the pretreatment samples forthis patient only.it is worth noting that scfa detection in fecal samples is affected by both production and absorption of scfas in the large intestine.

fecal samples were obtained before the commencement of treatment and at 2 to 4 weeks and 6 to 8 weeks postdiagnostic endoscopy.

clinical data on disease activity including fecalcalprotectin were collected prospectively at each visit.single-control samples were obtained from siblings living within the same household at the time of their sibling's diagnosis.ethical approvalthe study has ethical approval from southampton  south west hampshire research ethics committee 09h0504125.

all samples were processed within 24 hours.

beforeprocessing and during transit all samples were in sealed containers with some air and kept on ice in an insulated cool- bag at a temperature estimated to be less than 8 degc.sample processingsamples were homogenized.

sample values were calculated by comparison with standard curve plots prepared using the calprotectin standards provided in the kit.scfa analysisaliquots of homogenized fecal samples 1 g were mixed with sterile h2o 13 wv vortexed for 2 minutes centrifuged for 10 minutes at 1000 g and the supernatant collected and frozen.

patient numbers correspond to those described in .there was significant variation between all samples with significant intraindividual variation.

