A total of 105 participants average age64.8 - 7.0 years were recruited from March 2014 to June 2015 and formed four groups 30 patients with periodontitis and COPD CP group 25 COPD patients without periodontitis CP- group 25 per- iodontitis patients without COPD C-P group and 25 healthy individuals C-P- group.

Red dots represent periodontitis patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder COPD CP group green dots represent periodontitis patients without COPD C-P group yellow dots represent COPD patients without periodontitis CP- group and blue dots represent participants without COPD or periodontitis C-P- group.

The richness diversities and relative abundance of periodontal bac- teria were compared among COPD patients period- ontitis patients and a control population by using a 16S rRNA gene metagenomic sequencing technique that has been widely used to characterize human micro- biota in various tissues .

Data from COPD patients CP and CP- and non-COPD patients C-P and C-P- are shown.

The genus Catonella and two species C. morbi and P. intermedia predominated in COPD patients compared to non-COPD patients.

This result was similar to observations from previous studies  indicating the dominant microbiota in period- ontal patients was relatively stable in diverse popula- tions and strengthened the reliability of the data sampling periodontal tissue in COPD patients.In this study six periodontitis-associated genera and eight species were identified in COPD patients.

The genera Dysgonomonas Desulfobulbus and Catonella as well as P. intermedia P. endodontalis D. wimpennyi and C. morbi were more abundant in COPD patients than they were in non-COPD patients.

In this study the genus Catonella and Catonella mordi were more abundant in COPD patients and higher in periodontitis patients.

The genus Oribacterium was detected to be significantly decreasing in sputum samples from advanced COPD patients compared to moderately severe COPD patients  which supported the results.

Previous research showed that species including Parvimonas micra C. gracilis Treponema socranskii Dialister pneumosintes Streptococcus sanguinis and T. forsythia were signifi- cantly elevated in smoking periodontitis patients than they were in non-smoking periodontitis patients  and species including F. nucleatum and Filifactor alocis were increased in smoking periodontal healthy indivi- duals than they were in healthy non-smokers .

