animalis vkl and b. animalis vkb separately and in various compositions on the level of serum cholesterol gut microbiota contents and liver morphology on a high-calorie- induced obesity model in balbc mice.materials and methods we used for the study female balbc mice 6-8 weeks old 18-24 g. experimental animals were fed by a fat-enriched diet fed and 8 experimental groups were formed 12 mice in each group to test strains of probiotic bacteria l. delbrueckii subsp.

the liver morphology and gut microbiota of obese mice were studied.results we revealed that after treatment with all of the studied probiotic bacteria and compositions of b. animalis vklb.

casei imv b- 7280 are effective at decreasing the weight of obese mice decreasing cholesterol level restoring the liver morphology and beneficially modulating the gut microbiome in high- calorie-induced obesity.keywords predictive preventive personalized medicine .

zabolotny institute of microbiology and virology of national ...66 publications 237 citations21 publications 47 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsprobiotics oncology all content following this page was uploaded by on 13 october 2017.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.comparative study of probiotic effects oflactobacillus and bifidobacteria strains on cholesterol levels liver morphology and the gut microbiota in obese micerostyslav v. bubnov lidiia p. babenko liudmyla m. lazarenko viktoriav.

the link must be accompanied by the following text the final publication is available at link.springer.com.1 23author's personal copyepma journaldoi 10.1007s13167-017-0117-3comparative study of probiotic effects of lactobacillusand bifidobacteria strains on cholesterol levels liver morphology and the gut microbiota in obese micerostyslav v. bubnov12 lidiia p. babenko 1  liudmyla m. lazarenko1  viktoria v. mokrozub1  oleksandr a. demchenko 1  oleksiy v. nechypurenko 1  mykola ya.

casei imv b-7280 the weight of obese mice decreased and cholesterol and its fraction levels in se- rum were reduced.

and coliform bacteria increased the number of staphylococci and streptococci reduced and the number of microscopic fungi significantly decreased in the gut of obese mice after treatment with l. casei imv b-7280l.

animalis vkb or probiotic compositions we observed re- duction of the mesenteric fat size after injection of all these probiotic bacteria separately and probiotic compositions.

in the blood serum of the obese mice the level of cholesterol was estimated.

casei imv b-7280 composition effectively recovered the liver morphological structure of obese mice.

casei imv b-7280 b. animalis vkl and b. animalis rostyslav v. bubnov lidiia p. babenko liudmyla m. lazarenko mykola ya.

bulgaricus imv b-7281 b. animalisseparately or their compositions.conclusion l. casei imv b-7280 separately and a compo- sition of b. animalis vklb.

the number of probiotic strains demonstrated ability to de- crease cholesterol level in vivo however it was poorly con- firmed in a clinical setting.

acidophilus imv b-7279 l. casei imv b-7280b.

we defined the strain-dependent effects on serum lipid profiles liver morphology and the gut microbiota.

