consumption of probiotic yoghurt could dramatically alleviate the diarrhea through inhibiting the clostridium difficile growth in hospitalized patients 13. the recipients of lactobacillus acidophilus cl1285 lacto- bacillus casei lbc80r or saccharomyces boulardii showed much lower clostridium difficile infection rates than that of recipients of placebo 14. in in vitro human colonic model the probiotic strain saccharomyces cerevisiae influenced gut microbiota activity by increasing the production of acetate and decreasing that of butyrate to fight against enterohemor- rhagic escherichia coli ehec o157h7 infection 15. these studies indicate that the remission of diarrhea during the administration of probiotcs is associated with the inhibi- tion of pathogenic bacteria.diabetesdiabetes is a condition of multifactorial origin which is affected by genetic and environmental factors 16. scientific evidence suggested that the intestinal microbiota is related to the development of diabetes and probiotics are considered to modulate and maintain a much healthier gut microbiota and are used as effective adjuvants in insulin resistance therapies 17 18. the administration of probiotics lactobacillus rhamnosus gg lgg in elderly patients with type ii diabe- tes resulted in promoting the population of roseburia and eubacterium which produced butyrate to inhibit the devel- opment of inflammation 19. the data suggest that probiot- ics regulate the composition of gut microbiota to inhibit the development of diabetes.irritable bowel syndrome ibsirritable bowel syndrome ibs is one of the most com- mon functional gastrointestinal disorders and the etiology and pathogenesis of ibs may relate to the alterations of the gut microbiota 20-22. after 4 weeks of treatment with pro- biotic mix vsl3 the number of bacteroides was reduced in the intestine of ibs patients while the population of bifi- dobacteria lactobacilli and streptococcus was greatly en- hanced compared with the baseline 23. the yoghurt which contained lgg bifidobacterium animalis lactobacillus casei lactobacillus acidophilus and lactobacillus fermen- tum was consumed by participants for the 6-week interven- tion phase the abundance of clostridium difficile andor e. coli was decreased and the level of lgg was increased in feces of participants 24. all these microbial alternations suggest that probiotics were involved in the modulation of the gut microbiota in ibs.in brief probiotics may participate in modulation of hu- man intestinal diseases though regulating the composition of gut microbiota.the effect of probiotics on gut micro- biota of micestudies on the probiotics effect on gut microbiota have also been used in the mice model where again they modu- late the composition of the gut microbiota.

moreover the probable mechanism for the benefits of dietary supplementation with probiotics will be discussed.keywords probiotics gut microbiota animal modulation mechanism.introductionprobiotics are defined as live microorganisms that seem to promote gut health and regulate intestinal homeostasis 1. although research has strengthened the role of probiotics as effective agents in altering the balance of gut microbiota their contribution to the alleviation of chronic intestinal dis- orders is increasingly being documented 2-4. the most typical strains used as probiotics are members of lactoba- cilli enterococci and bifidobacteria 5. probiotic coloniza- tion and its impact on the gut microbiota members are highly species specific.

the diversity ofmurine intestinal lactobacilli was enriched by the admini- stration of lactobacilli casei and lactobacilli plantarum 25. ulrika and colleagues observed that the growth of lac- tobacillus in the intestine was enhanced when the c57bl6j mice were fed with a single strain of lactobacillus planta- rum in combination with green tea powder 26. the admini- stration of were lactobacillus and bifidobacterium attenu- ated obesity comorbidities through shifting the structure of mice gut microbiota which had been disrupted by a high fat diet hfd and reducing metabolic syndrome ms- associated phylotypes of gut microbiota 27. the use of bifidobacterium longum dramatically decreased viable counts of intestinal pseudomonas aeruginosa in mice 28 and the probiotic e. coli strain nissle 1917 inhibited the in- testinal colonization of salmonella typhimurium through competition for nutrients 29. moreover the administration of probiotic vsl3 which was lactobacillaceae-enriched prevents the nod mice from type i diabetes by increases in clostridia and rikenellaceae species and decreasing the bac- teroidetes strain 30. all of these studies indicate that probi- otics promote mice health by modifying the population of the host gut microbiota.the effect of probiotics on pig gut microbiotaprobiotics are commonly used as feed additives in live- stock.

they can serve as alternatives to antibiotics to increase improve growth performance and decrease the inci- dence of diarrhea in weaning pigs 31-33.in the treatment of piglets with lactobacillus derived from the pig intestine the abundance of enterobacteriaceae such as e. coli was decreased and the incidence of diarrhea was reduced either 34-36. and feeding the suckling pigs with lactobacillus reuteri could increase the lactic acid pro- duction and reduce intestinal ph consequently inhibiting e. coli 37. feed supplementation of sows with probiotics may promise the suckling pigs a new development in probiotic application 38. sows were fed with probiotic enterococcus faecium the amount of lactose in milk was increased and the gut bacterial composition of sows was modified 38. moreover the mucosal immune system and the gut microbi- ota of the offspring were both changed 39. while admini- stration of sows or the suckling piglets with probiotics is not a practicable option in conventional swine operations.administration of a probiotic enterococcus faecium strain reduced e. faecalis numbers in the intestines of wean- ling piglets but total numbers of e. faecium remained un- changed suggesting that the administered strain had dis- placed part of a fixed number of niche sites occupied by the same species 40. enterobacteriaceae numbers were re- duced when a cocktail of two lactobacillus strains was ad- ministered to pigs 41 and a five-strain probiotic combina- tion reduced salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium shedding in pigs 42.probiotics increase the growth performance and decrease the incidence of diarrhea in weaning pigs partly via an im- provement of the intestinal microbial balance including the against e. coli and salmonella enterica serovar typhi- murium.the effect of probiotics on gut micro- biota of poultryprobiotics have been used in poultry for decades and have now become common in the pet bird industry.

this review summarizes existing studies of the influence of dietary additive probiotics on the gut microbiota in different animals such as humans mice pigs and chickens to clarify the contribution of different kinds of probiotics to the intestinal microbiota.

in addition supplementation also tended to re- duce clostridium perfringens counts in the large intestine and excreta while linearly reducing salmonella counts in the cecum ileum large intestine and excreta compared with the controls 47. supplementation with bacillus amyloliquefa- ciens kb3 did not affect cecal lactobacillus and bacillus contents but exerted a negative linear effect on cecal e. coli with increasing the level of this probiotic in broiler diets 48. enterococcus faecium can beneficially manipulate the cecal microflora in broilers challenged with e. coli k88 as broilers fed enterococcus faecium had lower concentrations of e. coli less clostridium perfringens and greater lactoba- cillus and bifidobacterium counts 49.another probiotic floramax-b11r used as a feed addi- tive showed reduced salmonella colonization in broiler chickens and prevented the adverse effects of early infection with salmonella enteritidis including increased intestinal permeability 50. bacillus subtilis b2a improved productiv- ity and reduced salmonella load in broilers 51. a signifi- cant reduction in the number of salmonella enteritidis posi- tive chicks was observed when chicks were in ovo inoculated with e. faecium and continued receiving it in the diet 52. the probiotic strain lactobacillus salivarius smxd51 ex- hibits an anti-campylobacter activity in broilers and can partially prevent the impact of campylobacter on the avian gut microbiota 53.probiotics confer alterations to the population of gut mi- crobiota members in broilers.

microbe 2013 141 26-37.dolpady j. sorini c. di pietro c. cosorich i. ferrarese r. saita d. clementi m. canducci f. falcone m. oral probiotic vsl3 prevents autoimmune diabetes by modulating microbiota and promoting indoleamine 23-dioxygenase-enriched tolerogenic intestinal environment.

2015 614 273-292.fuentes s. egert m. jimenez-valera m. ramos-cormenzana a. ruiz-bravo a. smidt h. monteoliva-sanchez m. admini- stration of lactobacillus casei and lactobacillus plantarum affects the diversity of murine intestinal lactobacilli but not the overall bacterial community structure.

importantly different probiotics have been shown to have dramatically different capacities to modulate physiological function 6. in this review the evidence for the use of probiotics in different animals is discussed along with their possible mechanisms of action.the effect of probiotics on gut micro- biota of human beingsa number of diseases are associated with the changes in the composition of gut microbiota of the human body.

denis s. alric m. livrelli v. blanquet-diot s. entero- hemorrhagic escherichia coli infection has donor-dependent effect on human gut microbiota and may be antagonized by probiotic yeast during interaction with peyer's patches.

2014 934 818-829.saint-cyr m.j. haddad n. taminiau b. poezevara t. quesne s. amelot m. daube g. chemaly m. dousset x. guyard- nicodeme m. muriel guyard-nicodeme.

probiotics colonization and its impact on gut microbiota members are highly species specific.

hart a. the gut microbiota and host health a new clinical frontier.

delzenne n.m. the role of the gut microbiota in en- ergy metabolism and metabolic disease.

alterations of gut microbiota in patients with irritable bowel syndrome a sys- tematic review and meta-analysis.

