further research is needed to extrapolate the importance of these cytokine markers and their potential in the diagnosis of vvd.genomic markersseparate from repeated infectious assaults predisposing women to vvd studies have found that the genetic profile of women with vvd includes polymorphisms in genes coding for cytokines il-1 receptor antagonist il-1b and mannose- binding lectin mbl39 and proposed that these genetic polymor- phisms may lead to an enhanced inflammatory response after an assault with trauma or infection and a reduced capacity to terminate inflammation.3940studies suggest that women who were homozygous for allele 2 in the il-1b receptor antagonist and for allele 2 in the il-1b gene were more likely to be affected with vvd.41 these variant alleles result in lower levels of production of the anti-inflammatory mediator il-1 receptor antagonist and higher levels of production of the proinflammatory cytokine il-1b the latter resulting in a heightened inflammatory response and the former in difficulty in ter- minating it.41 homozygosity for these alleles has been associated with an enhanced inflammatory response and is hypothesized to pre- dispose women to vvd.41buccal swabs from women with and without vvd tested for codons 54 mbl2 gene polymorphisms revealed that the variant mbl2 codon 54 allele b was more frequent in women with re- current episodes of vulvovaginal candidiasis and bv than in the women with acute episodes or control women.42 additional find- ings suggest that the mbl2 allele variant is more prevalent in women with primary vvd and that those women with the allele variant also had a reduced ability to produce tnf-a in response to a candida insult.43 mannose-binding lectin 2 is another impor- tant innate immune receptor that recognizes high-mannose n-glycans characteristic of fungi and other pathogens and a ge- netic polymorphism in it may make one more susceptible to vari- ous bacterial and c. albicans infections.42-44another area of interest is in the role of single nucleotide polymorphisms in patients with vvd.

metagenomic genomic proteomic and glycomic molecular markers of disease are continuously being investigated as potential tools for more precise and accu- rate diagnosis see figure 1. given that vvd is a diagnosis of exclusion elucidation of potential markers of disease movesinfection.1920 specifically a portion of asymptomatic healthy women particularly african american and hispanic women host a polymicrobial vaginal environment dominated by bacteria other than lactobacilli including prevotella gardnerella atopobium and megasphaera species.19 a study from the vaginal human microbiome project at virginia commonwealth university compared the microbiomes of vaginal samples from 1268 african american women and 416 european american women.

the findings revealed that in african american women the most common vaginal microbiome was l. iners followed by gardnerella vaginalis bvab1 other and l. crispatus.20 in contrast the most common vaginal microbiome in women of european ancestry was l. crispatus followed by l. iners and g. vaginalis and that the bvab1 microbial profile was only found in 5 samples.20there are indications of a potential difference in the vaginal microbiome of women with vvd compared with control women.21 in a double-blind study vaginal samples for bacterial flora and cytokines of patients with vvd were compared with controls and cultures from control women showed the presence ofl.

j reprod med 200954385-92.farmer ma taylor am bailey al et al.

sialic acids play a role in the immune system by regulating the alternative pathway of the complement activation modulating leukocyte trafficking and controlling immune cell activation and some organisms including group b streptococcus have devel- oped human-like sialytated trisaccharide terminals mimicking the sialic acids on human cells that serve to block recognition of underlying glycans by naturally occurring antibodies in humans thus effectively fooling the immune system.73given that the glycomic structure of cells can be impacted by disease69 it is certainly reasonable that they could also be altered in the vagina by vaginal microbiome.74 in a study of women with and without bv samples from women with bv had lower levels of both sialic acid and 2 high-mannose glycans that are known to be targeted by innate antiviral and antifungal immune lectins such as dc-sign.74 these alterations associated with the presence of abnormal microbiome may have effects on the innate immune system making these women more susceptible to infection and subsequent inflammation.currently no research has been published on glycomic markers specific to vvd.

the dramatic increase in il-17 observed by ventolini et al.21 was not seen by baker et al.38 because their recent study found a decrease in il-17.

a population-based assessment of chronic unexplained vulvar pain have we underestimated the prevalence of vulvodynia j am med womens assoc 20035882-8.reed bd crawford s couper m et al.

j low genit tract dis 2004848-57.reed bd haefner hk sen a et al.

obstet gynecol 20081122 pt 1231-7.arnold ld bachmann ga rosen r et al.

int j womens health 20146437-49.bornstein j goldstein at stockdale ck et al.

acta obstet gynecol scand 2010891504-10.c 2016 american society for colposcopy and cervical pathology5leclair cm goetsch mf korcheva vb et al.

am fam physician 2006731231-8.goldstein at pukall cf brown c et al.

j sex med 201613572-90.peterson j garges s giovanni m et al.

nature 2012486215-21.aagaard k petrosino j keitel w et al.

fertil steril 20151041351-7.fettweis jm brooks jp serrano mg et al.

