this list includes some of the options that have been investigated how they might ultimately impact upon the inflammatory pathways and their often divergent conclusions.intervention investigatedrelationship to the inflammatoryprocessauthoryearconclusionischaemia preventionphdhif pathways see textcohn  rives 1956 17ischaemia did not cause al in a sterilebowel in dogsshaksheer et al.

2016 123increased inflammation and adhesiondoes not prevent al in micemoslemi et al.

2016 124prevents al and reduced adhesions in rats pantelis et al.

the sympathetic neural response to intrusion of theperitoneal cavity and handling of bowel causes a reac- tive hypomotility of the git which usually fades quickly upon abdominal closure but prolonged ileus can occur has been shown to be associated with increased il-6 and leucocyte infiltration of the bowel 4142 and has a positive correlation with rates of al 43. here again evidence shows that inhibiting the inflammatory axis via cox-2 improves ileus 4445. some clinical studies comparing laparoscopic with open surgery suggest a relationship between decreased inflammation as evidenced by a lower crp level post- laparoscopy with lower ileus and al rates 46 but caution needs to be exercised in interpreting these results as correlation does not always imply causation.

while most joins heal uneventfully in up to 26 of patients healing fails and an anastomotic leak al develops.

despite advances in surgical technology and techniques the rate of anastomotic leaks has not decreased over the last few decades raising the possibility that perhaps we do not yet fully understand the phenomenon of al and are thus ill-equipped to prevent it.

while most heal uneventfully in up to 26 of patients 5 healing fails and an anastomotic leak al develops despite the best technical efforts.

while there is certainly no place for gross departure from these principles how important are they in preventing al and how might they relate to cellular and molecular aspects of inflammationmany pharmacological and mechanical aspects have been reviewed 16 over the years and a selected few are summarised in table 1. but interpretation of these experimental results is more complex than would seem at first glance.

while reduced microperfusion of the rectal stump has been linked to als as might be expected 21 a sepa- rate histological study of microvessel density revealed no difference between al and healed specimens 22. this confusion surrounding the hierarchical impor- tance of blood supply has not slowed efforts to improve intraoperative visualisation of perfusion with innovations such as scanning laser doppler flowmetryand fluorescent indocyanine green icg being introduced in recent years.

but again for example with icg there is still a lack of randomised controlled tri- als evidencing a significantly reduced al rate 24.although nonrandomised studies have indicated no leaks in the anastomoses that were immediately revised based on intraoperative icg fluorescence it is unknown if these would ultimately have leaked with- out revision 25.perhaps some of the difficulties in obtaining a clear- cut conclusion are because the hypoxia-inflammation axis is more complex within the bowel compared to other mucosal surfaces like the lung.

2016 117no difference in tissue hypoxia levelsin miceschouten et al.

2014 22no differences in microvessel densityin human histology specimens pommergaard et al.

2015 118 impaired blood supply impairshealing in miceattard et al.

200519systemic hypoxia impairs healing in rats boersema et al.

2016 20hbot improves anastomotichealing in ratselectromagnetic field therapy emfelectromagnetic field therapy can downregulate inflammatory cytokines il6 il1 cox2 and upregulate il10 119120mente et al.

