the hologenome theory of evolution supports this concept and implies that therapeutic strategies aiming to control glycemia should take into account both the gut microbiota and the host immune system.scope of review this review discusses the latest evidence regarding the bidirectional impact of the gut microbiota on host immune system crosstalk for the control of metabolic disease hyperglycemia and obesity.

the authors of this study identified the mechanism as increased energy efficiency with the potential for the gut microbiota tofigure 2 gut microbiota to intestinal immune defense interplay for the control of bacterial translocation-induced tissue inflammation and metabolic control.

furthermore phar- macological strategies aimed at controlling the impact of the tissue microbiota on the host tissue function should control pathological developments such as insulin resistance obesity hepatic steatosis and fibrosis to cite a few.the intestinal immune system protecting the host from gut and tissue microbiota dysbiosis candidates for metabolic diseasecertainly the best way to control the changes in gut microbiota ecology that lead to a deleterious and dysbiotic microbiota is to initiate an intestinal defense.

reviewgut microbiota and immune crosstalk in metabolic diseaseremy burcelin abstractbackground gut microbiota is considered as a major regulator of metabolic disease.

such novel strategies should hamper the role played by gut microbiota dysbiosis on the development of metabolic inflammation.major conclusions recent evidence in rodents allows us to conclude that an impaired intestinal immune system characterizes and could be causal in the development of metabolic disease.

to design treatments for chronic metabolic impairments one should consider the molecular underpinnings of both the impaired microbiome and the impaired immune systemthe causal role of gut microbiota on metabolic diseases has been shown in rodents through microbiota transfer experiments and in humans demonstrating that the microbiota from a healthy donor could improve the body weight and glycemia of an obese and diabetic receiver respectively.

in addition to evidence showing that a specific gut microbiota characterizes patients with obesity type 2 diabetes and hepatic steatosis the mechanisms causal to the disease could be related to the translocation of microbiota from the gut to the tissues inducing inflammation.

however several bacterial entities as defined by enterotypes have been identified  high- lighting the notion that not all obese patients are characterized with similar gut microbiota dysbiosis and underlining several gut microbiota dysbiosis-dependent mechanisms.

upon a gut microbiota dysbiosis such as induced by a fat-enriched diet a dysbiotic mucosal microbiota composed of proteobacteria and firmicutes appears impairing intestinal epithelial cell function and amp production and leading to increased gut permeability.

similarly the production of igas protecting against gut microbiota dysbiosis induced by a high-fat diet can be improved by polyphenols like resveratrol  which improves the gut barrier.

the dendritic cells regulate a first switch in the expression of homing receptors from lymphoid to gut homing receptors which allows ilc13 but not ilc2 to reside in the gut .

altogether the gut microbiota dysbiosis was responsible for the early onset impairment of macrophage to lymphocyte co-activation.the molecular mechanisms from the gut microbiota responsible for theimpaired co-activation could have an epithelium origin.

gut microbiota metagenomics diversity and the host genetic diversity regulate human metabolic diversity.

un- fortunately the studies could not identify the host dependent mech- anism responsible for the graft efficiency.in the last decade other mechanisms reconciling the immune system particularly as relates to metabolic inflammation with gut microbiota dysbiosis have been proposed.

a key question resides in the identification of the antigens accumulating within the tissues.recent evidences from our laboratory suggested that bacterial frag- ments from the gut microbiota could translocate to tissues and initiate metabolic inflammation .

