most likely these population levels are sufficient to serve as inoculum for colonization of the newborn gi tract but insufficient to provoke an inflammatory response of the mam- mary gland.cells that contain only hyphens denote no antibiotic usevd vaginal delivery cp cesarean partum bmi body mass indexcells that contain only hyphens denote no bacterial agglutination observedtime necessary for bacterial agglutination   agglutination up to15 min   agglutination up to 1 h   ag- glutination up to 3 hin terms of specific bacterial groups several studies on human milk microbiota showed that the presence of staphylococcus streptococcus and lactobacillus is a com- mon characteristic among them -  .

the numbers indicate the halo diameter in mmamc amoxicillinclavulanic acid fox cefoxitin caz ceftazidime c chloramphenicol p penicillin va vancomycin cip ciprofloxacin te tetracyclineamp ampicillin da clindamycin e erythromycin gn gentamicintable 5 survival of bacterial isolates under similar conditions of human gastrointestinal tract and mucin degradation- no lysis zone observed  observed growth colonies b bacterial counts before simulation of gastric conditions a bacterial counts after simulation of gastric conditions s percentage of survived bacteria after gastric simulated stressalthough a small sample of putative probiotic candi- dates was selected n  9 some variables seem to be relat- ed to its isolation from breast milk and colostrum.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in probiotics and antimicrobial proteins  april 2017doi 10.1007s12602-017-9270-1citations3reads758 authors including11 publications 19 citations284 publications 4472 citations 548 publications 11422 citations73 publications 1025 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsmilk ecosystem and udder health labcontrol - a software for bacterial information management all content following this page was uploaded by on 04 may 2018.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.doi 10.1007s12602-017-9270-1evaluation of potential probiotics isolated from human milk and colostrumquesia s. damaceno 1  jaqueline p. souza1  jacques r. nicoli2  raquel l. paula3 gabriela b. assis 4  henrique c. figueiredo4  vasco azevedo 5  flaviano s. martins126 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2017abstract several studies have demonstrated a diversity of bacterial species in human milk even in aseptically collected samples.

the growth was evaluated by turbidity appearance of the broth and bacterial sedimentation in tube.statistical analysisdescriptive statistics were assessed for the log10 bacterial counts.

similarly for total bacterial counts population levels of these specific groups of bacte- ria were higher in colostrum about 3.0 2.0 and1.0 log10 cfuml respectively compared to second- time point and third-time point of collection samples p  0.0026. the differences and confidence interval for each group in a given point of sample collection are shown in table .a total of 160 bacterial isolated from mrs agar was sub- mitted to maldi-tof ms identification which revealed a predominance of staphylococcus epidermidis n  76. other species isolated were staphylococcus lugdunensis n  7 lactobacillus gasseri n  4 streptococcus salivarius n  4 staphylococcus caprae n  3 corynebacterium tuberculostearicum  n  3   s. aureus  n  2   staphylococcus hominis n  2 streptococcus mitis n  2 corynebacterium kroppenstedtii n  2 staphylococcus saccharolyticus n  1 staphylococcus capitis n  1 actinomyces neuii n  1 streptococcus parasanguinis n  1 streptococcus agalactiae n  1 and b. breve n  1. identification was not obtained for 49 of the isolates.

bacterial isolates were counted and identified by biotyper matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry and then tested for probiotic properties.

the higher bacterial counts were found in colostrum mean  3.9 log10 cfuml 95 ci 3.14-4.22 p  0.00001. the most abundant species wasstaphylococcus epidermidis n  76. the potential probiotic candidates were lactobacillus gasseri n  4 bifidobacterium breve n  1 and streptococcus salivarius n  4. despite the small sample size l. gasseri was isolated only in breast milk from mothers classified into a normal weight range and after a vaginally delivered partum.

nine bacterial isolates belonging to the species l. gasseri b. breve and s. salivarius were selected as potential probiotics.

the present study confirms the pres- ence in breast milk of a bacterial microbiota that could be the source of potential probiotic candidates to be used in the for- mula of simulated maternal milk.

bacterial counts were expressed as log10 of colony forming units cfu per mil- liliter of milk or colostrum.identification of bacteriaafter enumeration colonies with different morphologies were isolated and submitted to growth atmosphere determi- nation for isolates cultured under anaerobic conditions catalase test and gram staining.

this meth- od has been recognized as a rapid and accurate alternative for bacterial identification in clinical microbiology labora- tory  .screening for probiotic propertiesantagonism against pathogensin vitro antagonistic assay was performed using the agar double-layer diffusion method.

bacterial spots were inocu- lated onto mrs agar's surface in a petri dish and incubated at 37 degc for 24-48 h. after incubation cells were killed by exposure to chloroform for 30 min and the residual chloro- form was allowed to evaporate for another 30 min.

enterica serovar typhimurium atcc 14028 and shigella flexneri atcc 12022.agglutination testthe ability of the bacterial isolate to agglutinate with indi- cator strains was evaluated as previously described by perez-sotelo et al.

aliquots of each bacterial isolate culture were spotted onto mrs agar supplemented with increased oxgall difco con- centrations 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.8 1.0 and 2.0. the plates were incubated at 37 degc for 72 h under anaerobically or microaerophilic conditions.

ten microliters of fresh bacterial culture was inoculated onto the surface of lb agar.

