this acid converted via the tca cycle was degraded by all segments but more actively by the large intestinal iec figure 4 panel e. in agreement in rabbit highest absorption and metabolic conversion of propionate was seen in the proximal colon.66 hence colonic iec seem to adapt their metabolism to cope with the scfa locally produced by the microbiome.finally regarding a-oxidation 3-methylhexadecanoic acid asynthetic analogue of phytanic acid57 was degraded by all iec but at a low rate small intestinal cells being more active figure 4 panel f. the low activities are not due to poor uptake given the high esterification in iec figure 4 panel j ratio esterificationoxidation in duodenum 250. older studies in rat showed indeed efficient uptake of phytanic acid by intestine but the acid was largely excreted into the lymph in esterified form without metabolic modifications.67 physiological role of intestinal peroxisomes in etherlipid synthesisas explained above the role of intestinal peroxisomes in etherlipid synthesis could not be addressed well by immunotechniques while enzyme measurements face the problem of nonreadily available labeled substrates.

results and discussion  different distribution of peroxisomes throughout the intestinal epitheliumso as to get an overview of the intestinal tract in mice rolls were prepared from the different sections followed by immunostaining.figure 2 western blot of mouse intestinal epithelial cells.

to which extent intestinal perox- isomes contribute to the overall body oxidation of dca and other peroxisomal substrates cannot be deduced from our data but could be elucidated via the generation of a mouse-lacking peroxisomes in the intestinal epithelium.

all together theseobservations sustain the remarkable tissuecell-specific expressionof abcd-transporters53 which does not follow that of peroxisomal b-oxidation enzymes.figure 3 peroxisomal enzyme activities in mouse intestinal epithelial cells.

in mouse fetuses the distribution of peroxisomes along the length of the intestine was studied showing the largest number in the duodenal epithelium decreasing in the ileum.6regarding the main functions of peroxisomes key enzymes of b-oxidation were shown to be present in small intestine of mammals like acyl-coa oxidase 1 acox1 in rat7-10 mouse1112 guinea pig13 and man14 and in human rectal mucosa.15 the l-specific multifunc- tional protein encoded by ehhadh but referred to as mfp1 was documented in mouse intestine12 acetoacetyl-coa transferaseacaa1 in human rectal mucosa15 and scp2 containing thiolase encoded by scp2 and referred to as scpx in rat small intestine and colon.16 similarly enzymes related to etherlipid synthesis were found in small intestine dihydroxyacetone-phosphate acyltransferase gnpat andor alkyldihydroxyacetonephosphate synthase agps in rat duodenum717 in rectal mucosa from man15 and in guinea pig small intestinal mucosa.18 a-oxidation has not been studied in intes-tinal preparations and hardly no info is available on the d-specificmultifunctional protein encoded by hsd17b4 and referred to as mfp2 one of the most important b-oxidation enzyme on the basis of the pathology in patients.119generally these studies were performed on homogenates of mucosal scrapings without further detail on their possible differen- tial expression in the various intestinal cell types.

on the basis of trypan blue staining viability was greater than 90 for small intestinal cells somewhat lower for large intestinal preparations.

all intestinal activities are significant p  .01 lower than the hepatic ones except for mfp2 in d and jp p  .05. activities significant different from the one measured in proximal jejunum are indicated by letters a p  .05 or b p  .01. abbreviations as described in legend of figure 2figure 4 fatty acid oxidation in mouse intestinal epithelial cells.

after uptake a large amount was oxidized to palmitic acid and further metabolized either degradation by oxidation or esterification data not shown as reported before infigure 5 plasmalogen synthesis and levels in mouse intestinal epithelial cells.panel a. intestinal epithelial cells isolated from different segments were incubated with labelled hexadecanol followed by lipid extraction and thin layer chromatography with or without prior trifluoroacetic acid tfa treatment.

so as to find out whether intestinal plasmalogens could arise from dietary etherlipid precursors eg alkylglycerols although unlikely to be present in the chow intestinal tissue from gnpat-- mice was analyzed.

the latter is less likely as modulation of dietary plasmalogens by intestine enrichment in arachidonic acid at position 2 and excretion into lymph were reported in rat.72summarizing we confirmed and established the enrichment ofperoxisomes in the epithelial layer of the small intestinal villi and revealed their presence in the large intestinal epithelium.

peroxisomes are alsoresponsible for the synthesis of primary bile acids polyunsaturated fatty acids and ether phospholipids plasmalogens.1compared with liver in which these peroxisomal pathways were mainly studied much less is known about intestinal peroxisomes.

the relative similar abundance of pex14 in crypt and villi of small intestine is in agreement with data by grant et al.48given the enrichment in the epithelial layer in a subsequent step iec were isolated from different intestinal segments and analyzed for expression of peroxisomal proteins and for enzyme activities.

for comparison mitochondrial oxidation was assessed with palmitic acid figure 4 panel c. different from peroxisomal substrates palmitic acid was degraded by both small and large intestinal iec consistent with the immunoblot analysis of cpt1 figure 2.not all segments were equally active on the different peroxi- somal substrates.

the abun- dance of peroxisomal membrane proteins and peroxisomal b-oxidation enzymes is especially pronounced in duodenum and jejunum segments known to be involved in lipid uptake.

researc h artic l edifferential activities of peroxisomes along the mouse intestinal epitheliumpetruta l. morvay1  myriam baes2  paul p. van veldhoven11 lipid biochemistry and protein interactions lipit ku leuven leuven belgium2 cell metabolism ku leuven leuven belgiumcorrespondencepaul p. van veldhoven campus gasthuisberg lipit ku leuven herestraat box 601 b-3000 leuven belgium.email funding informationku leuven grantaward number ot14 100 to p.p.v.v.

