fecal dna and rectal biopsies were used to characterize the microbiome and mucosal cd4 t cells respectively before and after fmt.results of the 20 patients enrolled in this study 7 patients 35 achieved a clinical response by week 4. three patients 15 were in remission at week 4 and 2 of these patients 10 achieved mucosal healing.

copyright c 2017 crohn's  colitis foundationdoi 10.1097mib.0000000000001132published online 25 april 2017.inflamm bowel dis  volume 23 number 6 june 2017  903animal models supports a role for the microbiome in driving aber- rant inflammatory disease in a genetically susceptible host several studies have recently sought to evaluate the role for fmt in the treatment of ibd.three randomized controlled trials of fmt for treatment of active uc were recently reported with mixed clinical efficacy.3-5 the turn trial n 50 which delivered fmt through naso- duodenal tube at week 0 and week 3 showed no significant change in clinical remission between subjects who received donor or autologous stool.3 by contrast a 6-weekly fecal enema-based fmt study n 754 and a multidonor colonoscopic infusion followed by 5 dwk enema for 8 weeks n 855 showed sig- nificant improvement in clinical remission.

the third patient had a clinical response per study definition but opted for anti-tumor necrosis factor a blockade therapy with a post-fmt mayo score of 7. consistent with pre- vious studies using single donor fmp 2-donor fmp was well tolerated in the setting of active uc.seven patients 35 achieved a clinical response dmayo score 3 and a bleeding subscore 1 by week 4. three patients 15 were in clinical remission at week 4 mayo score 2 and no subscore .1 and 2 of these patients 10 achieved mucosal heal- ing endoscopy subscore of 0. paired analysis showed a significant improvement in mayo score median decrease of 1.5 p0.03 fig.

unsolicitedtable 2. clinical outcomes at week 4 post-fmtoutcomeweek 4 post-fmt n clinical response7 35.0clinical remission3 15.0mucosal healing2 10.0escalation of therapy3 15.0colectomy1 5.0medical2 10.0figure 1. two-donor fmp improved mayo score and endoscopic subscore at week 4 post-fmt.

single delivery of high-diversity fecal microbiota preparation by colonoscopy is safe and effective in increasing microbial diversity in active ulcerative colitisvinita jacob md carl crawford md shirley cohen-mekelburg md monica viladomiu phd gregory g. putzel phd yecheskel schneider md fatiha chabouni md sarah o'neil pa brian bosworth md viola woo bs nadim j. ajami phd joseph f. petrosino phd ylaine gerardin phd zain kassam md mph mark smith phd iliyan d. iliev phd gregory f. sonnenberg phd david artis phd ellen scherl md randy s. longman md phddownloaded from httpsacademic.oup.comibdjournalarticle-abstract2369034561082 by arizona state university libraries userfuture directions and methods for ibd researchsingle delivery of high-diversity fecal microbiota preparation by colonoscopy is safe and effective in increasing microbial diversity in active ulcerative colitisvinita jacob md carl crawford md shirley cohen-mekelburg md monica viladomiu phd gregory g. putzel phd yecheskel schneider md fatiha chabouni md sarah o'neil pa brian bosworth mdss viola woo bs nadim j. ajami phdk joseph f. petrosino phdkylaine gerardin phdp zain kassam md mphp mark smith phdp iliyan d. iliev phdgregory f. sonnenberg phd david artis phd ellen scherl md and randy s. longman md phdbackground recent trials suggest fecal microbiota transplantation fmt with repeated enemas and high-diversity fmt donors is a promising treatment to induce remission in ulcerative colitis.methods we designed a prospective open-label pilot study to assess the safety clinical efficacy and microbial engraftment of single fmt delivery by colonoscopy for active ulcerative colitis using a 2-donor fecal microbiota preparation fmp.

although this study was not placebo-controlled clinical response 35 and remission rates 15 were similar to a recently reported placebo-controlled trial 39 response and 24 remission at week 7.4 a recent multidonor intensive fmt strategy requiring daily enema therapy showed even higher remis- sion rates.5 fmt with 2 donor fmp in our study was well toler- ated and the frequency of grade 1 adverse events was consistent with the expected incidence in both the treatment and controls reported previously.34 these data coupled with the significant decrease in week 4 mayo score and endoscopic subscore suggest that the 2 donor fmp is safe and effective.

although this real world approach allowed us to capture robust week 4 clinical responses in biologic naive patients larger placebo- controlled trials are needed to evaluate durable fmt strategies in both biological naive and refractory patients.

all the seven week 4 responders maintained improvements in clinical scores at week 12 but longer follow-up will be needed to evaluate the efficacy of less intensive therapy which may ultimately be more practical for patient care.given the restricted microbial diversity of a uc recipient with active disease diversity and donor engraftment have been used as metrics of clinical efficacy.

after colonoscopy patients were adminis- tered 4 mg of loperamide to assist with fmt retention.outcome measurespatients were followed post-fmt by medical interview and physical examination at 2 4 and 12 weeks.

s2 supplemental digital content 1 therefore to main- tain fmp heterogeneity and the possibility to detect differential donor effects resulting from unique microbial communities 2-donor fmp was used in this study.baseline clinical characteristics for all 20 subjects are presented in table 1. all 20 enrolled patients successfully completed the trial through week 4 table 2. although no serious adverse events were observed minor grade 1 adverse events were recorded all of which were deemed to be possibly related to fmt see table s1 supplemental digital content 1 one patient had a transient febrile response which improved with conservative care within 5 days.

b alpha diversity metrics of observed otus left panel and shannon index right panel are compared for recipient pretransplant pre and at week 2 w2 and 4 w4 after fmt.

although no differences were seen in either the donor sample or recipients pre-fmt alpha diversity metrics at week 4 were significantly higher in the patients on corticosteroidbiologic immunomodulator therapy see fig.

909diversity correlates with response in recurrent c. difficile-asso- ciated diarrhea.1 while pilot studies of fmt in crohn's dis- ease18 showed an increase in both diversity and donor engraftment which correlated with clinical response the corre- lation of diversity and engraftment with clinical response in uc was modest.34 using a 2-donor fmp to provide greater micro- bial diversity our results reveal a robust increase in both diver- sity and engraftment in all subjects regardless of clinical response.

two-donor fmps were prepared from 4 unique donors using a 4 choose 2 factorial design with all pairwise combinations to generate six 2-donor fmps each of which was used at least 3 times.fecal microbiota transplantationall patients meeting entry criteria underwent standard polyethylene glycol-based colonoscopy bowel preparation and magnesium citrate on the day before colonoscopy.

donor composition correlated with clinical response and further characterization of immunological parameters may provide insight into factors influencing clinical outcome.inflamm bowel dis 201723903-911key words microbiome fecal microbiota transplantation ulcerative colitisecal microbiota transplantation fmt has emerged as an effec- tive therapy for recurrent clostridium difficile infection and increased microbial diversity is a characteristic feature of a success- ful responder1 however the efficacy of fmt for inflammatorybowel disease ibd remains unclear.

