In this way a healthy dietary intervention could be a key tool to reverse microbiota dys- biosis and as a result help to correct metabolic imbalance.AbbreviationsCHD coronary heart disease EDTA ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid FDR False Discovery Rate LF low-fat MED Mediterranean MetS metabolic syndrome MUFA monounsaturated fatty acids NCEP Na- tional Cholesterol Education Program NonMetS-NonOB non-obese sub- jects NonMetS-OB obese patients without metabolic dysfunction 2 or less criteria for metabolic syndrome MetS-OB obese patients with se- vere metabolic disease 5 criteria for metabolic s'indrome PUFA polyun- saturated fatty acids SCFA short-chain fatty acid TG triacylglycerides T2DM type 2 diabetes mellitusSupporting InformationSupporting Information is available from the Wiley Online Library or from the author.AcknowledgementsC.H.

A. Rangel-Zu'niga Dr. J. F. Alcal'a-D'iaz Dr. P. P'erez-Mart'inez Dr. J. L'opez-Miranda Prof. F. P'erez-Jim'enez Dr. A. CamargoDOI 10.1002mnfr.201700300nutrition and immune functions1 and changes in its composition andor struc- ture can have major repercussions on health and disease.2 In fact the imbal- ance or dysbiosis of the gut microbiota has been associated with obesity and obesity-related metabolic dysfunctions.3 The obese microbiota pattern described in animal models is characterized by a higher FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio4 and it has primarily been associated of diet-induced obesity rather than genetically induced obesity.56 However human studies have yielded inconsistent results7-9 including a reduced abun- dance of Firmicutes in obese subjects.10 Previous data indicate that the variability of human population related with factor such as age or gender seems to affect gut microbiota composition.11-14 We hypothesized that the microbiota profile of obese people could differ according to their metabolic status which could also help to explain the discrepancy found in obese people where the proportion of obese people with and without metabolic diseases may correspond more or less to the degree of dysbiosis of gut microbiota.CIBER Fisiopatolog'ia de la Obesidad y Nutrici'on CIBEROBN Instituto de Salud Carlos IIICordoba SpainDr.

A. David C. F. Maurice R. N. Carmody D. B. Gootenberg J. E. Button B. E. Wolfe A. V. Ling A. S. Devlin Y. Varma M. A. FischbachS.

A. Hildebrandt C. Hoffmann S. A. Sherrill-Mix S. A. Keilbaugh M. Hamady Y. Y. Chen R. Knight R. S. AhimaF.

A. Huttley S. T. Kelley D. Knights J. E. Koenig R. E. Ley C. A. Lozupone D. McDonald B. D. Muegge M. Pirrung J. Reeder J. R. Sevinsky P. J. Turnbaugh W. A. Walters J. Widmann T. YatsunenkoJ.

For that purpose we selected two obese populations with extreme phe- notypes a group of obese people with severe metabolic disease MetS-OB meaning that they met all the five defining criteria for this syndrome and a group of obese people without metabolic syndrome 2 or less criteria for metabolic syndrome NonMetS- OB in comparison with a non-MetS non-obese control group NonMetS-NonOB.Experimental SectionStudy SubjectsThe current work was conducted in a subgroup of 106 male patients within the CORDIOPREV study Clinical Tri- als.gov.Identifier NCT00924937 an ongoing prospective ran- domized opened controlled trial in patients with coronary heart disease CHD who had their last coronary event over six months before enrolling in two different dietary models Mediterranean and low-fat over a period of 5 years in addition to conventional treatment for CHD.18 CORDIOPREV inclusion and exclusion criteria are summarized as follows patients were eligible if they were over 20 years old but under 75 had established CHD with- out clinical events in the last 6 months were thought to follow along-term dietary intervention and did not have severe diseases or an estimated life expectancy of less than 7 years.18 Usage of antibiotics was included as an exclusion criteria for the cur- rent study in addition to the general exclusion criteria defined in the CORDIOPREV study.

Bircher M. L. Schlegel T. A. Tucker M. D. Schrenzel R. Knight J.I.

Zhang J. K. DiBaise A. Zuccolo D. Kudrna M. Braidotti Y. Yu P. Parameswaran M. D. Crowell R. Wing B. E. Rittmann R. Krajmalnik- Brown Proc.

D. Fernandez-Ballart J. L. Pinol I. Zazpe D. Corella P. Carrasco E. Toledo M. Perez-Bauer M. A. Martinez-Gonzalez J. Salas-SalvadoJ.

A. Navas-Cortes M. Tena-Sempere J. C. Clemente J. Lopez-Miranda F. Perez-Jimenez A. Camargo PloS One 2016 11 e0154090.M.

