adipose tissue is mainly composed of three types of fat namely white adipose tissue wat brown adipose tissue bat and the 'beigebrite' brown in white fat .

in this regard risk factors including adipose tissue dysfunction mitochondrial dysfunction myofiber types and gut microbiota have been reported to be asso- ciated with insulin resistance and obesity and will be discussed first.adipose tissue composition and function at a glanceoverweight andor obesity continue to rise at an alarming rate worldwide and adipose tissue plays a vital role in the regulation of energy homeostasis.

upon systemic metabolic demand the unparalleled capacity of adipose tissue for lipid storage and release links the cell biology of the adipose tissue physiology to whole-body metabolism .

in general adipose tissue dysfunction is characterized by the inability of adipose tissue to store the surplus free fas ffas  decreased production of adiponectin and increased pro- duction of inflammatory cytokines such as tnf-a leptin and il-6 .

intriguingly many factors including adipose tissue dys- function mitochondrial dysfunction alterations in the muscle fiber phenotype and in the gut microbiota compo- sition have been identified to be involved in the develop- ment of obesity and its associated metabolic disorders in particular type 2 diabetes mellitus.

yehui duan  shengzhen hou 1 state key laboratory of plateau ecology and agriculture qinghai university xining 810016 qinghai china2 department of medicine jishou university jishou 41600 hunan china3 key laboratory of agro-ecological processes in subtropical region institute of subtropical agriculture chinese academy of sciences national engineering laboratory for pollution control and waste utilization in livestock and poultry production hunan provincial engineering research center for healthy livestock and poultry production scientific observing and experimental station of animal nutrition and feed science in south-central ministry of agriculture changsha hunan 410125 china4 university of chinese academy of sciences beijing 100039 chinakeywords adipose tissue dysfunction  gut microbiota  mitochondrial dysfunction  myofibers  obesity  type 2 diabetes mellitusintroductionobesity has reached epidemic proportions worldwide and is characterized by excessive or abnormal adiposity and chronic inflammation  .

therefore obesity has been considered to be a chronic disease that requires medical prevention and treatment.intriguingly many factors have been identified to be involved in the development of obesity and its associated metabolic disorders such as adipose tissue dysfunction alterations in myofiber types mitochondrial dysfunction changes in the gut bacterial composition as well as others that are not listed in the present review have been associ- ated with obesity development and contribute to this low- grade systemic inflammation subsequently leading to insulin resistance and probably t2dm -.

in this context interest in better understanding the composition and function of adipose tissue is rapidly rising in current medical research .

notably the primary cell type of adipose tissue is the adipocyte .

apart from its lipid-storing capacity wat is also a highly active endocrine organ with the ability to synthe- size and secrete numerous inflammatory molecules allowing the crosstalk of adipose tissue with other tissues to mediate various physiological functions such as insulin sensitivity protein turnover feeding behavior and energy expenditure.

taken together the functions of adipose tissue include adipogenesis lipid metabolism adipokine synthesis andor secretion and thermogenesis.adipose tissue dysfunction obesity and t2dmthe first organ influenced by excessive fat intake is the wat responding by higher fat deposition and consecutive hypertrophy and hyperplasia adipocytes .

in the context of obesity adipose tissue is overloaded with triacylglycerol and cannot effectively store more lipids.

therefore lipolysis increases leading to increased ffas levels in adipose tissue.

the increased levels of ffas can bind to macrophage toll-like receptor tlr-4 and can activate macrophage already present in adipose tissue resulting in the activation of nuclear factor- jb and the production of proinflammatory cytokines such as tnf-a  .

mcp-1 and icam-1 further attract macrophages into adipose tissue .

