in healthy human subjects dominant genera in the lung such as prevotella and veillonella have been associated with changes in immune system physiology including increases in pro-inflammatory lymphocytes and cytokines and an attenuated tlr4 response in alveolar macrophages.addi- tionally similarly to the gut microbiota members of the lung microbiota have been proposed to induce antimicrobial peptide production by the innate immune system.studies examining the influence of the gut microbiota on the respiratory immune system via the lung-gut axis have suggested these gut organisms may influence both risk of tb infection and the development of active tb.in a study with cynologous macaques individuals were less likely to develop active tb when challenged with m. tuberculosis if they were alsoinfected with helicobacter pylori.in contrast when mice carry the commensal bacterium helicobacter hepaticus they are more susceptible to tb infection.while gut microbes correlate with infection risk and disease progression in these animal models understanding the molecular bases for these effects and assessing whether similar correlations exist in humans are important future challenges.recently an association was reported between the production of serum and pulmonary short chain fatty acids scfas an increased abundance of anaerobes in the lung including prevotella veillonella and haemophilus and a heightened risk of tb infection in humans .the mechanism underlying this association is hypothesized to be the inhibitory effect of butyrate on the induction of the pro- inflammatory cytokines ifn-g and il-17a which are normally induced by m. tuberculosis antigens.

15 55-63.perry s. de jong b. c. solnick j. v. sanchez m. d. l. l. yang s. lin p. l. hansen l. m. talat n. hill p. c. and hussainr.

108 4680-4687.masson l. passmore j. a. s. liebenberg l. j. werner l. baxter c. arnold k. b. williamson c. little f. mansoor l. e. naranbhai v. et al.

importantly these microbiota-based strategies are likely to be most effective when administered prophylactically to the populations most often affected by these diseases.the prospect of preventing pathogen colonization by administering defined gut microbiota communities and single species has demonstrated significant promise in mouse models of c. dif f icile vancomycin-resistant enterococcus vre epec ehec and s. enterica typhi infection.-this strategy is also being explored in humans with several microbiota-based therapeutics for the prevention of recurrent c. diff icileinfections currently entering or in clinical trials.in addition a synbiotic approach involving administration of a probiotic strain of lactobacillus plantarum together with a prebiotic fructooligosaccharide to rural indian newborns led to a significant reduction of death by sepsis.sepsis is often caused from intestinal pathogens breaching the gut epithelial barrier and entering the bloodstream suggesting that this intervention may be preserving the integrity of the gut epithelial barrier via physical mechanisms e.g.

moving forward it will be important to explore this proposal in animal models of infection to determine whether a causal relationship exists between scfa production and increased risk of tb.overall our current knowledge of the roles the lung and gut microbiota play in tb infection and disease progression is very limited though preliminary studies suggest that interactions between these microbial communities and the host immune system affect both the initial infection and activation of latent tb.

mice given this intervention had higher titers of plasmodium specific igg antibodies following infection suggesting that changes in the gut microbiota may affect disease progression through modulation of the immune system.these studies have begun to demonstrate the impact of the human gut microbiota on both plasmodium infection and the development of severe malaria.

in healthy humans anti-a-gal antibodies produced against the a-gal sugar present in the cell walls of certain commensal bacteria were shown to also target the plasmodium parasite and higher levels of these circulating antibodies are associated with decreased risk of infection.additionally higher proportions of bif idobacterium and streptococcus in the human gut microbiota are correlated with a lowered risk of malaria infection but no association was found between gut community composition and the later development of severe malaria.while these studies present intriguing associations a recent study in mice demonstrated strong causal evidence for the role of the gut microbiota in modulating the severity of the disease.

isolated from a wild-caught mosquito drastically reduced the survival and development of plasmodium parasites in the mosquito gut with a mechanism of action that appears to involve the direct killing of parasites through generation of reactive oxygen species.with evidence that the mosquito gut microbiota can significantly affect plasmodium infection recent exciting proof- of-concept studies have explored the feasibility of using genetically engineered mosquito gut commensals expressing anti-plasmodium factors to kill the parasite.

the striking success of fmt in treating recurrent c. dif f icile infections has provided perhaps the strongest proof-of-concept for gut microbiota manipulationas a therapeutic strategy.probiotic strains have also been engineered to participate in new interactions with the host and or gut microbiota including carbohydrate metabolism and the local delivery of il-10 to treat inflammatory bowel disease ibd.these engineered systems offer the opportunity to introduce functions into the gut that would not be available using naturally occurring microbial species.

bmc genomics 16 631 .villarino n. f. lecleir g. r. denny j. e. dearth s. p. harding c. l. sloan s. s. gribble j. l. campagna s. r. wilhelm s. w. and schmidt n. w. 2016 composition of the gut microbiota modulates the severity of malaria.

various strains of lactobacillus l. jensenii l. casei l. reuteri and e. coli have been engineered to express several different anti-hiv proteins including effectors that interfere with target cell binding and membrane fusion.- some of these genetically engineered strains showed efficacy in reducing hiv infection in in vitro cell culture models.

37 762-792.chang t. l. chang c. h. simpson d. a. xu q. martin p. k. lagenaur l. a. schoolnik g. k. ho d. d. hillier s. l. holodniy m. et al.

efforts to characterize the composition of the vaginal microbiota have shown that the vaginal microbiotas of healthy asymptomatic women are often dominated by a single species of lactobacillus including l. iners l. crispatus l. gasseri or l. jensenii.

in contrast 20-30 of healthy asymptomatic women have more diverse communities thatare not dominated by lactobacillus yet appear to retain conserved functions that may be necessary for healthy physiology such as lactic acid production.disruption of this healthy low diversity community structure may lead to bacterial vaginosis bv which is described as a dysbiotic polybacterial infection marked by increased diversity and a higher abundance of facultative and strict anaerobes.this strong association between low bacterial diversity and healthy vaginal physiology is in stark contrast to other body sites where lower diversity is often correlated with disease highlighting that community function rather than composition may be thecritical factor influencing health and disease.recent efforts to understand the role of the vaginal microbiota in hiv infection has suggested that this community is an important risk factor b. increased levels of pro- inflammatory cytokines in cervicovaginal lavage fluid has been associated with a heightened risk for hiv infection consistent with the recruitment of hiv-susceptible immune cells to the mucosal surface during inflammation.

associations between mosquito gut community composition and susceptibility to plasmodium infection have been demonstrated in wild-caught mosquitoes with increased abundance of enterobacteriaceae correlating with infection.

