vaginally delivered infants have a gut microbiota that resembles the microbiota of the maternal vagina whereas infants born via a caesarean section c-section have a gut microbiota that resembles skin microbiota -.second breastfeeding versus formula feeding has an impact on microbiota composition.

in recent years it has been further suggested that aber- rancies in the infant intestinal microbiota affect gut motor function and gas production thereby leading to excessive crying.available treatments for infant colic range from drug thera- pies and nutritional interventions to behavioral interventions however there is no standard care .gut microbiota and colicseveral studies were performed to investigate the differ- ences in gut microbiota between healthy infants and infants with colic.

some important factors in children include withholding behavior of stools psychosocial factors behavioral disorders parental child-rearing attitudes low fiber intake and the gut microbiota composition .gut microbiota and fcin the last decades only a few studies reported on microbiota in children with constipation.

failure to transfer fiber and prebiotic fermenting microbes from mother to offspring is considered a potential issue for long-term health over the generations .finally other factors that can influence the composition of the microbiota such as the use of pre- and postnatal antibiotics premature birth geographic influences host genetics diet stress and hygiene are reviewed elsewhere -.adjusting the diet by adding for example dietary fibers or prebiotics gives the opportunity to modulate the gut micro- biota and exert effects on health.dietary fiber and prebioticsthe role of dietary fiber was already discussed by hippocrates in the medical literature in the fourth century bc.

the microbiota of formula-fed babies contains more diverse species resembling an adult-like microbiota and this is influenced by the presence or not of prebiotics in the for- mula milk .third the weaning period where the child receives a variety of solid foods modifies the gut microbiota.

moreover there is evidence that the gut microbiota can affect health in the long run.however it remains a challenge to determine whether there is a causal link between the gut microbiota and the disease state for many diseases.

a better understanding of the gut microbiota in healthy children and children with a disease is essential in order to improve our understanding of the role of the gut microbiota in disease development.

even though there is no universal defini- tion for dietary fiber all definitions hold that 'dietary fiber is a group of carbohydrate polymers oligomers and lignin that escape digestion in the small intestine and reach the colon intact where they are partially or completely fermented by the gut microbiota' .

7-12 1031-1045httpsdoi.org10.108017474124.2017.1359539reviewthe effect of fiber and prebiotics on children's gastrointestinal disorders and microbiomecarrie a. m. weghmargriet h. c. schoterman elaine e. vaughan clara belzerand marc a. benningaalaboratory of microbiology wageningen university and research wageningen the netherlands bdepartment of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition emma's children's hospital academic medical center amsterdam the netherlands cfrieslandcampina amersfoort the netherlands dsensus bv royal consun roosendaal the netherlandsarticle historyreceived 26 february 2017accepted 21 july 2017keywordsgut microbiota children dietary fiber functional gastrointestinal disorders prebiotics oligosaccharidesthe intestinal tract and developing gut microbiotathe thin epithelial layer lining the gastrointestinal gi tract is covered with the largest mucosal surface of the body.

1985 corn fiber vs. placebo525-15 years 6 weeks 2 x 5 g corn starch per dayrapclinically and statisticallysignificant decrease in pain attacks in corn fiber group 50 in corn fiber group vs. 27 in placebo groupchristensen 1986 ispaghula husk vs. placebo313-14 years 6 weeks 2 x 5 ml solution per day amount of fiber not given rapno difference in the numberof episodes of abdominal painromano et al.

the microbiota can interact with the human body to influence the host's response to the diet while the host simultaneously can influence the gut microbiota by changes in the diet .

the scfa acetate protects against intestinal inflammation via g-protein-coupled receptor gpr43 .a healthy gut microbiota consists of many different microbes but before the age of 3 years the microbiota has a lower diversity compared to adults .

however this average microbiota composition can be strongly influenced and modified dramatically by several factors.first the mode of delivery is believed to be a major deter- minant of the gut microbiota colonization of newborns .

also used a supervised statistical learning method in which they were able to discriminate the microbiota of constipated children from healthy controls with 82 accuracy .in practice the population of children with constipation is very heterogeneous therefore it may be useful to link altered gut microbiota signatures to specific subgroups of children.

ideally microbiota ana- lysis might be used to specifically design individual recom- mendations in terms of personalized food specific prebiotics andor fibers in order to promote health outcomes.in addition to the research on the gut microbiota studies are needed to investigate the development of fgids in chil- dren.

