here we discuss the physiologic significance of recognition of a specific epitope of a bacterial metabolic enzyme by w27 as well as the importance of the properties of intestinal iga in maintaining gut homeostasis.a high-affinity and poly-reactive w27 iga targets a bacterial metabolic enzyme and affects bacterial cell growthintestinal iga is important for control of commensal microbiota in the gutbut it remains unknown how iga recognizes and shapes this microbial community.

however the signal that stimulates this biased iga selection in vivo remains to be determined.iga deficiency and low-affinity iga cause a variety of gut pathological phenotypes in miceas we reported previously both activation-induced cytidine deaminase aid mutant mice aid- mice lacking all iga and aidg23s mutant mice lacking high-affinity igas suffer from lymphoproliferative disorders such as germinal center gc hyperplasia in the small intestine.

however we assume that the majority of intestinal iga suppresses bound bacteria rather than aiding their growth at least in mice because more than 90 of independent iga clones that we isolated from small intestine could recognize the eehi sequence and sup- press bacteria harboring it .we propose that high-affinity and poly-reactive intestinal iga such as w27 shapes the gut microbiota to maintain its diversity by suppressing not killing fast-growing bacterial species such as proteobacteria that harbor the eehi sequence in shmt.

5 486-492addendumintestinal iga as a modulator of the gut microbiotashinsaku okai fumihito usui misa ohta hiroshi mori ken kurokawa satoshi matsumototamotsu kato eiji miyauchi hiroshi ohno and reiko shinkuraaapplied immunology nara institute of science and technology nara japan bcenter for information biology national institute of genetics shizuoka japan cyakult central institute tokyo japan driken center for integrative medical sciences ims kanagawa japan egraduate school of medicine chiba university chiba japan fgraduate school of medical life science yokohama city university kanagawa japan gpresto japan science and technology agency saitama japanarticle historyreceived 1 december 2016 revised 27 january 2017 accepted 17 march 2017keywordsaid dysbiosis gut microbiota inflammatory bowel disease iga monoclonal antibodyintroductiondysbiosis of gut microbiota disrupts intestinal homeostasis and causes intestinal diseases including inflammatory bowel disease ibd such as crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis uc as well as extra- intestinal disorders including allergies asthma met- abolic syndrome cardiovascular disease and obe- sity.

to determine whether iga generated by aidg23s mice had lower affinity for e. coli which has the eehi sequence in shmt we extracted polyclonal iga from the gut contents of wild-type and aidg23s mice and compared the binding abilities for e. coli by elisa.

our recent observations supported others' findings that intestinal iga selectively binds harmful bacteria to eliminate them from the gut microbiota.on the other hand several reports demonstrated that iga binding could facilitate gut colonization by bound bacteria rather than suppressing their growth.

one promising agent capable of shaping the gut microbiota community is intestinal iga.

recently we isolated a high-affinity poly-reactive iga clone w27 from mouse intestinal lamina propria cells and identified it as a useful gut com- mensal modulator.

in standard mouse models of colitis and iga disorders oral treatment of w27 prevented pathological colon phenotypes by improv- ing the composition of gut microbiota.

we selected the iga clone w27 because it exhib- ited the strongest ability to bind multiple commensal bacteria while binding weakly or not at all to beneficial bacteria such as lactobacillus casei and bifidobacterium bifidum.

shmt-deficient e. coli exhibit retarded growth.in the previous studies includ- ing comprehensive proteomic analysis shmt was detected in the periplasm fraction in e. coli.it sug- gests that iga can recognize shmt on the surface of e. coli cells.

therefore we speculate that the binding of w27 iga to the n-terminal epitope of shmt may disrupt the functional dimer formation of shmt resulting in growth suppression of e. coli via inhibition of shmt enzymatic activity.

we speculate that w27 preferentially recog- nizes gammaproteobacteria and betaproteobacteria through the eehi sequence of shmt thereby helping to maintain a healthy gut environment.to determine whether the eehi sequence was of general importance we generated iga-producing hybridomas from several genetically different mice including unimmunized c57bl6 and balbc wild- type mice unimmunized c57bl6 aidg23s mice lack- ing only high-affinity iga due to a somatic hypermu- tation defectand ovalbumin-immunized c57bl6 wild-type mice.

unexpectedly however most of the isolated iga clones 42 of 44 recognized the peptide containing the eehi sequence with varying affinities .this finding suggests that intestinal iga-producing cells were preferentially selected to react to the eehi sequence in mice even though bacteria expressing the epitope are underrep- resented in their gut microbiota.

we assume that the eehi sequence of shmt is critical for bacterialtable 1. comparison of amino acid sequences in n-terminal region of shmtfigure 1. relative affinity of monoclonal iga clones against shmt-p1.1 rq-eehi-eliasenc -bsa.

