2017 the question is whether treatment of these diseases by fmt justifies the risk of changing a family's microbiome which might have long-term consequences that are in any case for the time being difficult to oversee.in sum we have argued that fmt may have far-reach- ing consequences for identity and family relationships.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in the american journal of bioethics  may 2017doi 10.108015265161.2017.1299245citation1reads362 authors including21 publications 39 citationsall content following this page was uploaded by on 23 october 2017.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.the american journal of bioethicsissn 1526-5161 print 1536-0075 online journal homepage ethical issues in fecal microbiota transplantion taking into account identity and family relationssuzanne metselaar  guy widdershovento cite this article suzanne metselaar  guy widdershoven 2017 ethical issues in fecal microbiota transplantion taking into account identity and family relations the american journal of bioethics 175 53-55 doi 10.108015265161.2017.1299245to link to this article c 2017 the authors.

how- ever there are other more fundamental issues to be addressed with regard to personal identity and fmt.these issues relate to what might be a shifting para- digm with regard to the way we understand the human body and human identity.although the human body is traditionally perceived to be made up of an interdependently functioning and coherent whole of human cells the constitution of which is largely determined by human dna as its blueprintthis perspective is rapidly changing at least for many of those involved in microbiome research on the basis of their findings they argue that our micro- biome should be seen as integrally part of the human body rather than separate from it grice and segre 2012. this not only has consequences for the way we regard the human body but also for the way we approach health and illness blaser 2014. in particular the human microbiome project hmp contributed to this view.

2017. in this line of thought it can be argued that issues around fmt surpass the individual autonomy of the primary recipient of fmt which is discussed by ma and colleagues they also regard family members as potential secondary recipients.

yet changes of behavior of the patient may affect family relationships in a similar way.ma and colleagues briefly address family issues sub- suming these under public health considerations.

in order to appreciate this concern it should be investigated how fundamental or far-reaching changes to one's microbiome can be relative to the human being as a whole o'doherty virani and wil- cox 2016.second we would like to draw attention to the issue of family in fmt.

they may view fmt as a procedure involving the ingestion of a derivative of a food that they perceive as forbidden and thus may have a strong sym- bolic or emotive objection to using samples from certain donors.

we agree that these are indeed urgent issues that need to be dealt with especially considering the novelty and promises of fmt as a new therapeutic intervention which rapidly becomes more mainstream.however we argue that two other important issues which are addressed by ma and colleagues only in passing require serious ethical concern and might need the attention of policymakers and regulatiory bodies.

they refer to evidence for the shared nature of human gut microbiomes across families and communities and the transferral of microbiomes through vertical transgenera- tional and horizontal environment lifestyle pathways.they argue thatmodulating an individual's gut microbiome may have unknown health consequences for their family and commu- nity.

published with license by taylor  francisc suzanne metselaar and guy widdershoven published online 21 apr 2017.article views 290view crossmark datafull terms  conditions of access and use can be found at ethics of fecal microbiota transplantationethical issues in fecal microbiota transplantion taking into account identity and family relationssuzanne metselaar vu medical centerguy widdershoven vu medical centerma and colleagues 2017 rightfully explain that fecal microbiota transplantation fmt that is transplants that involve introducing the stool from a healthy donor into the gastrointestinal tract or colon of a patient presents several serious ethical and social challenges that need to be addressed and if necessary be responded to by taking reg- ulatory policy measures.

these regard the possible consequences of fmt for 1 personal identity and2 family relations two issues which are also addressed by recent studies on micriobome research and therapy chuong et al.

this calls for an ethical approach that takes into account family relationships and mutual responsibilities for instance ethics of care lindemann verkerk and walker 2009.family relationships and issues of responsibility are especially relevant when an altered microbiome can be transmitted through offspring for which there is some evi- dence van opstal and bordenstein 2015. this provokes a comparison with human genomics.

elsewhere one of us argued that limb transplants may entail specific ethical issues concerning identity and family relationships.

this 5-year project which started in 2008 sought to gain knowledge about the way in which changes in the human microbiome could be associated with human health or disease by means of sequencing the human microbiome genome.

changing the microbiome by means of fmt implies changing the interaction between a patient's human and microbe genome and therewith changing the metagenome.

