denotes the modified phase ii results.cadazolid and vancomycin were similar to fidaxomicin and surotomycin phase ii and iii results figure 2 183637.phase iiiactelion pharmaceuticals is currently enrolling patients for two phase iii clinical trials called the impact in patients suffering from c. difficile-associated diarrhea nct01987895 and nct01983683 38. the impact trials comprise of two iden- tical studies denoted as impact 1 and impact 2 comparing the safety and efficacy of cadazolid 250 mg twice daily versus vancomycin 125 mg four times daily for 10 days.

cadazolid also significantly inhibited spore formation 25.pharmacokinetics and metabolismboth phase i and phase ii clinical trials demonstrated that cada- zolid was minimally absorbed and was mostly excreted in thefeces 263435. from the phase i studies systemic concentra- tions of cadazolid were negligible in healthy adults and patients with severe cdi with low plasma concentrations of 6.9 and 7.3 ngml respectively with the 3000 mg dose.

4 509-514drug evaluationcadazolid for the treatment of clostridium difficilebradley t. endres eugenie basseres m. jahangir alam and kevin w. gareydepartment of pharmacy practice and translational research university of houston college of pharmacy houston tx usaarticle historyreceived 20 september 2016accepted 6 march 2017keywordsantibiotic anaerobic infections cadazolid clostridium difficile diarrhea vancomycinintroductionclostridium difficile infection cdi is the leading cause of infectious diarrhea in hospitalized patients and the primary cause of death due to gastroenteritis in the usa 1. the incidence of cdi has increased dramatically in the last decade due to the emergence of the epidemic c. difficile strain bi nap1027 prompting significant efforts to prevent outbreaks and more effectively treat cdi 2. in 2011 these anaerobic gram-positive bacteria caused roughly 500000 infections in the usa and 29000 deaths 3. the pathogenesis of cdi includes ingestion of c. difficile spores via fecal-oral transmis- sion and germination in the gastrointestinal tract with secre- tion of two potent exotoxins toxins a and b in the colon 4. interaction of these toxins with the colonic epithelial cells causes a host inflammatory response that contributes to dis- ease progression 5-7. treatment goals for cdi have expanded beyond organism killing to include neutralizing toxin secretion using antibodies however antibiotics remain the mainstay of therapy 89.due to the increasing incidence of cdi and the limitednumber of available antibiotics there has been a significant interest in drug development to discover new antimicrobials with activity against cdi.

susceptibility of clostridium difficile isolates from a phase 2 clinical trial of cadazolid and vancomycin in c. difficile infection.

multicenter double-blind ran- domized phase 2 study evaluating the novel antibiotic cadazolid in patients with clostridium difficile infection.

primary clinical outcomes from a phase 3 randomized double-blind active-controlled study of sur- otomycin in patients with clostridium difficile-associated diarrhoea.

cadazolid has com- pleted a phase ii trial in 2012. investigators are currently recruit- ing patients for two identical phase iii studies called the international multi-center program assessing cadazolid treatment impact 1 and impact 2 in c. difficile-associated diarrhea a comparison of efficacy and safety of cadazolid versuschemistry and microbiologycadazolid is a novel antibiotic with an oxazolidinone pharma- cophore substituted with a fluoroquinolone moiety 2425. the molecular weight mw of cadazolid is 586 gmol which is higher than metronidazole mw 171 and lower than vanco- mycin mw 1449 and fidaxomicin mw 1058 figure 1. cadazolid is poorly water soluble roughly 150 ngml lipo- philic logd  1.2 and fairly acidic pka  6.0 26. collectively these properties prevent gastrointestinal absorp- tion and render cadazolid's systemic bioavailability negligible with the bulk of the drug confined to the lumen of the intestinal tract.mechanism of actionusing a series of macromolecular labeling in vitro transcrip- tiontranslation and topoisomerase studies it was determined that protein synthesis inhibition via the oxazolidinone moiety is the primary mechanism of action of cadazolid 27. cadazolid also possessed weak inhibition of dna synthesis via the quinolone nucleus.

shown is the chemical structure of cadazolid a along with other antibiotics that are used clinically including metronidazole b vancomycin c and fidaxomicin d.in vitro susceptibility and resistance developmentin vitro cadazolid was active against 133 c. difficile strains consisting of 33 different pcr ribotypes isolated from patients with primary or recurrent cdi with low mean inhi- bitory concentrations mics mic90 0.5 mgml range 0.125-0.5 mgml 28. a follow-up study performed the following year on 114 isolates showed similar results mic90 0.5 mgml while 93.9 of the strains were resistant to ciprofloxacin mic 8 mgml 10.5 to moxifloxacin mic4 mgml and 2.6 to linezolid mic 4 mgml 29. a smaller study of 23 isolates comprised of 10 different pcr ribotypes including linezolid-resistant strains showed a cadazolid mic range of 0.06-0.25 mgml 25. one hundred clinical isolates from primarily european hospitals including metronidazole-resistant strains displayed a cadazolid mic90 value of 0.125 mgml 30. the susceptibility of cadazolid vs. isolates obtained from the phase ii study has also been recently reported 31. mic90 values for clinical isolates from patients enrolled in the phase ii study were 0.25 mg ml for all ribotypes combined n  78 and 0.125 mgml for ribotype 027 isolates n  12.cross-resistance with linezolid or spontaneous resistance development was assessed for cadazolid and comparators 27. cadazolid demonstrated very low spontaneous resistance frequencies 10-10 and no resistance development was observed over 13 passages including using strains resistant to linezolid or fluoroquinolones.

see section 7 below for pharmacokinetic data from the phase i study.the third phase iii trial was performed in six patients fourmale and two female with severe cdi defined according to the european guidelines as having at least one sign of severe colitis 34. patients received a single 3000 mg dose of cada- zolid in addition to metronidazole or vancomycin.

adverse events for this study were similar to those reported from the first phase i trial.phase iia multicenter randomized double-blind phase ii clinical trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cada- zolid treatment for adult subjects with cdi 35. the study conducted at nine sites in four countries germany canada uk and us enrolled 84 patients with first occurrence or first recurrence of cdi of which 81 completed the study.

using the modified clinical cure and recurrence rate definitions response rates forfigure 2. comparison of phase ii and phase iii clinical trial results.

displayed are the results from the cadazolid fidaxomicin and surotomycin phase ii clinical trials and the phase iii results for fidaxomicin and surotomycin.

the primary end point of clinical cure will use phase ii trial modified definition three or less unformed bowel movement per day for at least 2 consecutive days used to compare to the fidaxomicin and surotomycin phase iii studies.pharmacodynamicscadazolid was shown to have concentration-dependent bac- tericidal activity defined as 99.9 kill rate within 24 h using in vitro time-kill studies 27. the bactericidal effect 5-log reduction in colony forming units cfuml was also shown in an in vitro gut model 30. in vitro models also demonstrated that cadazolid inhibited de novo toxin a and b formation from stationary c. difficile cells in historical american type culture collection atcc 9689 rt001 and the epidemic ribotype 027 national collection of type cultures nctc 13366 strains.

similar obser- vations were noted in the phase ii study with mild complaints of headaches dizziness confusion dyspepsia and pruritus.regulatory affairsthe phase iii clinical trial is currently recruiting patients and is estimated to be completed in february 2017.conclusioncadazolid is a novel antibiotic with potent activity against c. difficile primarily due to protein synthesis inhibition.

phase i and ii clinical trials have demonstrated favorable results and have justified the phase iii study currently ongoing.expert opiniondue to the limited number of effective antimicrobials used to treat cdi development of new antibiotics with activity against c. difficile is crucial.

