secondary endpoints include safety outcomes and laboratory testing such as c- reactive protein crp and erythrocyte sedimentation rate esr as well as stool calprotectin level.prediction of the number of subjects in the fmt group reaching the primary endpoint was 67 based on published studies17 18. it was also predicted that 36 of subjects of subjects in the placebo group would respond to mesalamine 23 24. differences in study outcomes between the two groups were assessed with fisher's exact probability test.

however our prediction of the number of subjects in the fmt group reaching the primary endpoint was 6717 18 our data show 60 of subjects in fmt group reaching primary endpoint please see table 3. we also predicted that 36 of subjects in our placebo group would respond to high dose mesalamine23 24 and our data show 28 please see table 3. for pucai scores of the 12 month study period please refer to figure 3.all children 100 in the fmt group improved their pucai scores.

equal distribution of subjects receiving biologic therapy was seen in both groups table 1.with regards to 5-asa therapy use before the study all subjects except for one child in the placebo group had been placed on oral 5-asa prior to enrollment at doses 50 mgkgday.laboratory changesfigure 2 shows the changes in esr crp and calprotectin in the fmt and placebo groups after 4 weeks of treatment.

both subjects had negative clostridium difficile at the time of randomization and both received oral vancomycin to treat the infection.prospect of benefitwe have seen a prospect of benefit in this small number of subjects based on the followingprimary outcome response the primary endpoint of the study was response to therapy based on pucai score improvement  20 points or a pucai score under 10 at week 4without rescue therapy.

subjects that reached their primary endpoint in the fmt group were 35 60 versus 27 28 for placebo which did not reach statistical significance due to low number of subjects.

some subjects improved their scores to a degree that would qualify them to achieve primary outcome 60 while the remaining subjects 40 improved their scores but not to the degree that would qualify them to reach primary outcome.

none of subjects in the placebo group achieved zero pucai score while 2 of 5 40 of subjects receiving fmt achieved this status.treatment escalation in addition more importantly treatment escalation within 6 months of therapy was necessary in 71.4 of children receiving placebo while none of the children who received fmt required therapy escalation table 3. therapy escalation was found to be statistically significant using fisher's exact test with a p value of 0.028 with a 95 ci -94.7 -12.1.treatment de-escalation one subject receiving fmt was successfully taken off of steroids without return of disease activity.

the authors recognize the small number of subjects and the presence of other variables that may contribute to the results of this study such as concurrent therapies and baseline pucai score differences in each group.more importantly none of the subjects in the fmt group required therapy escalation within six months of randomization while 71 of children in the placebo group didrequire escalation.

subjects were monitored for 12 months.

a large meta-analysis of 234 subjects with inflammatory bowel disease including 17 publications 17. there were 4 pediatric publications included in the meta-analysis.

the largest was published by kunde et al describing 10 pediatric subjects given fmt in the form of enemas.

six of the nine remaining subjects reported improvement in pediatric ulcerative colitis activity index pucai scores after 4 weeks.18.

clean out was performed as part of the preparation for colonoscopy.assessmentstelephone follow up was performed at 1 2 and 7 days and office visits after 4 weeks with additional follow-ups over 12 months figure 1. all subjects both placebo and fmt received oral 5-asa mesalamine 75 mgkgday max 4 g for the duration of the study.

subjects were asked to call if they experienced any adverse events and were given a subject information and log sheet.

during the telephone calls at 1 2 and 7 days as well as during follow up visits at 1 3 6 and 12 months all adverse events were solicited.resultssubject characteristicstwelve subjects were randomized to either receive fmt or placebo.

