2016. in times of fasting the enterocytes may also experience reduced nutrient uptake that may drive the atrophy of the proximal intestine thereby cre- ating a housing crisis for the microbiome mccue 2012. thus changes in the structure of the distal intes- tine such as decreased volume or available membrane space may result in changes to microbial diversity secor and carey 2016. however as noted above mor- phological changes to the distal intestine as a result of fasting have been largely overlooked with one previous mammalian example showing no change in mucosal area of the distal intestine following fasting okada et al.

2007.the colons hindguts or distal intestines hereafter distal intestine of vertebrate animals have received con- siderably less attention than the proximal intestine in terms of structural and functional responses to fasting and starvation gas and noailliac-depeyre 1976 bae- verfjord and krogdahl 1996 german et al.

2010. given that the distal intestine is responsible for absorb- ing nutrients vitamins electrolytes and water savage 1986 stevens and hume 1995 clements and rauben- heimer 2006 a complete understanding of how fasting affects the gastrointestinal tract must consider the distal intestine okada et al.

2016. overall changes in distal intestine microbial diversity and community structure as a result of fasting do not seem linked to structural changes in the distal intestine and thus the notion of a housing crisis is not supported.

2011 mischke and plosch 2013 it is crucial to understand if and how fasting-induced structural changes in the distal intestine may drive the observed changes in the micro- bial community that it supports.a recent study demonstrated that the diversity of themicrobiomes within the distal intestines of animals rep- resenting five vertebrate groups classes a teleost fish tilapia an amphibian toads a reptile leopard geckos a bird quail and a eutherian mammal mice kohl et al.

2014 table 1. thus within these organ- isms we are presented with the unique opportunity to answer the following questions regarding the distal intestine in the face of fasting 1 how do the distal intestines of disparate endothermic and ectothermic line- ages respond to fasting and despite likely mechanistic differences is there a common generalizable response e.g.

2016 also observed a thickening of proximal intestine muscularis thickness in juvenile tegus tupinambis merianae which they attributed to a potential anticipatory response for refeeding.tilapia are known to have active microbial fermenta-tion and absorption of short chain fatty acids in their distal intestine titus and ahearn 1988 1991 and intestinal microbes secrete more essential amino acids when tilapia are fed low-protein diets newsome et al.

2006 mccue 2012. despite various mechanisms to reduce energy expenditure secor and carey 2016 the fasted gut must be maintained in a state such that it retains the ability to quickly restore functionality in the event food is ingested.the small or proximal intestine hereafter proxi- mal intestine is the most active region of the intestine with high cellular turnover and activity and it exhibits several adaptive responses to downregulate and con- serve energy during times of fasting.

2013 mccue and pollock 2013 any fasting-induced morphological changes in the distal intestines should have occurred within the observation periods.the only significant fasting-induced changes that we observed in the distal intestines of the ectotherms occurred in the tilapia and the toads table 4. in tilapia all six measured variables differed significantly among the fasting time points.

2010 showed decreased mucosal surface area in the distal intestines of cyprinus carpio and pterygoplichthys disjunctivus respectively whereas baeverfjord and krogdahl 1996 observed decreased surface area in salmon distalmaintenance of distal intestinal structure2215fig.

in this study we tested the hypothesis that the extent of tissue reorganization in the fasted distal intestine was correlated with the observed changes in enteric microbial diversity.

given that fasting caused significant increases and reduc- tions in the enteric microbial diversity of mice and quail respectively but no detectable changes in distal intestine morphology we conclude that reorganization is not the primary factor shaping changes in microbial diversity within the fasted colon and the observed modest structural changes are more related to the fasted state.

2013.the distal intestine is home to the largest enteric microbial population outside of the caeca in animals that possess them roediger 1990 caporaso et al.

2005. however in fasted animals the nutrients in the distal intestine may become scarce okada et al.

many of the enterocytes lining the distal intestine also obtain a sig- nificant proportion of their energy needs from the short- chain fatty acids produced via microbial fermentation bjorndal 1979 troyer 1984 roediger 1990 bugaut and bentejac 1993 crawford et al.

