future studies are therefore required to determine the specific mechanisms by which rorgt expression facilitates treg cell suppression of specific subsets of t effector cells in the colon.function of colonic treg cellsintestinal treg cells likely employ a number of mechanisms for regulating effector t cell responses to gut bacteria including cell surface proteins and cytokines reviewed in 17. one likely mechanism is the inhibition of antigen presenting cell apc function by ctla-4 a transmembrane protein constitutively expressed in treg cells82.

in fact studies using helios and nrp-1 to identify treg cell origin show a marked shift in the colon from ttreg to ptreg cells aroundweaning22 23 27 33 36. in summary there is now a substantial body of work supporting the notion that the majority of colonic treg cells are generated by ptreg cell selection in response to colonic bacteria acquired around weaning.mechanisms of colonic ptreg cell generationthe molecular mechanisms involved in colon ptreg cell development have been recently reviewed45 which we will briefly summarize fig.

in addition the use of anti-cd25 antibodies may kill activated t cells or lead to gut inflammation which may alter the range of antigens presented to the immune system66.thus while there is intriguing data suggesting that gut treg cells induce iga either directlyrussler-germain et al.page 12or serving as precursors for foxp3- tfh cells this treg cell function during normal homeostasis requires further investigation.moreover it has been argued that treg cells actually inhibit b cell germinal center responses via the t follicular regulatory tfr cell subset.

thus treg cells co- expressing gata3 or tbet do not appear to play an integral part in the response to commensal bacteria during homeostasis.by contrast the colon is normally highly enriched in treg cells that express the canonical th17 transcription factor rorgt 30-80 which is expressed in only 10-20 of treg cells in the small intestine76 77 79 80. these cells are likely to be bacteria-i nduced ptreg cells as they are helioslo and nrp-1lo dramatically decreased in germ free and antibiotic-treated mice and can be induced in germ-free mice to spf percentages by several commensal species belonging to different phyla76 77. rorgt treg cells express high levels of il-10 and ctla-476 consistent with activated treg cells with increased immunoregulatory capability80.the process by which rorgt treg cells are generated appears to be dependent on certain bacteria.

this wasrussler-germain et al.page 4associated with induction of foxp3 in the most proliferated t cell population and is in stark contrast with previous studies in non-mucosal tissues showing ptreg cells in the least- divided population42 43. these colonic tcr tg data therefore demonstrate that ptreg cell generation can be the dominant outcome of naive t cell activation.tcr tg cells from these two lines did not undergo treg cell induction upon transfer in young mice but only in mice around the age of weaning or thereafter33.

for example germ-free mice show a several-fold reduction in the frequency of treg cells compared with conventionally housed specific pathogen free spf mice22 23. this process does not require a complex microbiota as introduction of individual bacterial isolates or defined consortia into germ-free mice is sufficient to induce colonic treg cells22 23.one mechanism by which intestinal bacteria can influence treg cell numbers is by inducing expansion of pre-existing thymic treg ttreg cells.

adoption of effector rather than regulatory t cell fate may be particularly relevant to the induction of immune responses against commensal antigens which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of ibd8 72 73. consistent with this hypothesis ct2ct6 tcr sequences typically found in the treg cell subset in normal mouse colons can be found in colonic effector foxp3- t cell subsets in genetic backgrounds such as il-10-- and dntgfbrii mice that lead to spontaneous colitis36.

further work in this area could have therapeutic implications for intestinal inflammatory diseases.russler-germain et al.page 8treg cells co-expressing canonical effector t cell transcriptions factorswhile certain environments described above skew t cell development away from treg towards effector subsets normal foxp3 treg cells can upregulate effector transcription factors such as tbet gata3 and rorgt to provide additional functional capacity45.

specifically we will discuss the roles of intestinal bacteria in shaping tolerogenic treg cell responses via non-antigen-specific factors as well as address how antigen-specificity appears to be important for intestinal treg cell development and function.

this was due to the lack of the appropriate bacteria in young mice rather than an immature immune compartment incapable of inducing treg cell selection as fecal microbiota transplant from three- but not one- week old donors into one-week old recipients was sufficient to induce treg cell development.

indoleamine-23-dioxygenase ido can be produced by dendritic cells and intestinal epithelial cells in response to gut bacteria to favor ptreg cell differentiation51 52. short chain fatty acids scfas produced by gut bacteria from dietary components increase the percentage of treg cells in the cd4 t cell subset as well as the expression of il-10 in treg cells53-56.

however this issue is not easily addressed via analysis of polyclonal treg cell numbers requiring an approach where the kinetics of treg cell induction and expansion can be monitored33.

another study showed that the colonic treg cell repertoire was markedly affected by broad-spectrum antibiotics26 consistent with bacterial antigens selecting the gut treg cell population.

while this is consistent with clostridium tcr-specific treg cell function it is possible that clostridium isolates enhanced treg cell function via tcr-independent effects in this assay.

notably of the cd4 t cell population colonic treg cells exhibit the greatest production of il-10 based on the use of reporters94 and the expression of il-10 is associated with co-expression of rorgt76.induction of il-10 in gut treg cells has been reported to occur with microbiota-derived factors such as b. fragilis-derived psa via a t cell intrinsic tlr2-dependent mechanism68.

