to compare terrestrial and aquatic individuals we pooled data from both locations and used a linear mixed-effect model with life phase as a fixed effect and location kleiwiesen elm as a random factor.resultsoverall 304 287 newt and 17 environmental samples were analyzed 1. the rarified otu table of skin microbiota samples contained 3503 unique bacterial otus predominately from five main phyla proteobacteria bacteriodetes actino- bacteria firmicutes and verrucomicrobia.newt microbiota exhibits variation through time phylogenetic diversity varied through time for all three newt species analysis of variance  po0.001 1. there was an increase in phylogenetic diversity in the second half of march in all species followed by a decrease in april for i. alpestris andt.

cristatus 1.cutaneous bacterial community structure on newts also significantly varied through time using bray-curtis permanova pseudo-f  13.722 i. alpestris 8.3865 l. vulgaris 9.2361 t. crista- tus p  0.001 weighted unifrac permanova pseudo-f  10.638 i. alpestris 8.747 l. vulgaris13.469 t. cristatus p  0.001 and unweighted unifrac permanova pseudo-f  3.7736 i. alpes- tris 3.2635 l. vulgaris 3.5643 t. cristatus p  0.001. mean relative abundance profiles of newt bacterial otus showed that community composition differed across time fi 2. for both i. alpestris and l. vulgaris pairwise distances from the initial sampling point increased through time but forcristatus distances were relatively constant 2. unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean clustering showed that samples from the same or nearby dates had more similar community structures and samples typically clus- tered chronologically for each study species 3 supplementary figure s3.

some studies support this hypothesis whereas others support that structure and function are not inherently linked these alternative findings necessitate the following questions if a bacterial community exhi- bits structural variation temporally what are the functional implications does functional potential of the community parallel these structural changes orremain unchanged despite altered community struc- ture to determine whether temporal variation in amphibian skin microbiota influences protective function we must study these communities across a time-series.for amphibian microbiota much of the available knowledge comes from isolated sampling events providing snapshots of community structure and important insights into the factors structuring these communities.

it remains unclear however how microbial communities on amphibian skin change through time what factors drive this variation and how such variation may influence microbial func- tion with respect to protection against pathogens.

this finding makes sense in the context of other studies that have found amphibian microbial communities are dominated by bacterial taxa that are rare in the environment thus wecan expect different dynamics between these two communities.the lack of association between the temporal dynamics of environmental microbiota and that of newts suggests a heightened role of host-associated factors such as changes in skin morphology and mucosal characteristics in driving temporal patterns of newt skin microbiota.

to explore drivers of the observed temporal variation in skin microbiota we tested for associa- tions between newt microbiota and environmental variables including water temperature and aquatic bacterial community structure.

using a database of amphibian skin bacteria that inhibit the pathogen batrachochytrium dendrobatidis bd we found that the proportion of reads associated with 'potentially' bd-inhibitory otus did not vary temporally for two of three newt species suggesting that protective function may be maintained despite temporal variation in community structure.the isme journal 2017 11 1521-1534 published online 7 april 2017introductionhost-associated microbial communities have vital roles for the hosts on which they reside for example .

we subsequently determine whether this estimated function varies through time.materials and methodssample collectionsampling of three newt species was performed at semi-regular intervals approximately once pertable 1 sample sizes of amphibian cutaneous bacterial communities and pond water samples included in this studydateaquatic phase temporal sampling 16 march-29 mayindividual was held with unique gloves rinsed with 50 ml of filtered 0.22 mm deionized water to remove debris and transient microbes and swabbed on its ventral surface 10 times 1 time  an up and back kleiwiesenelmvulgaris t. cristatus environmenti.

vulgaris and 3 t. cristatus supplementary table s5.one hundred thirty-four otus from the newt temporal data set matched inhibitory otus from the amphibian bacteria database relative abundance of bd-inhibitory reads derived from the summation of rarified reads associated with all 'potentially inhibitory' otus n  134 did not differ across time for l. vulgaris kruskal-wallis chi-squared  6.6038 p  0.359 andt.

chryseobacterium otu1 increased through time for all three newt species while pantoea otu1 increase through time for i. alpestris and l. vulgaris but remained more constant for t. cristatus .

at the start of sampling newts had just migrated into breeding ponds the period from mid-march to early april likely coin- cided with changes in skin morphology from the terrestrial to aquatic phase this transitional process also involves increased skin sloughing which is known to affect skin microbiota microbial changes may also be in part related to host immune system differences furthermore skin restructuring may include changes in innate immune system function skin ph or other components of the mucosal layer similar to changes at metamorphosis which have a role in structuring host micro- biota the influence of skin morphology in temporal variation of skin microbiota is further exemplified by the distinct communities characterizing terrestrial and aquatic newts.

addres- sing these two hypotheses provides new insight into the structure-function relationship occurring in skin microbiomes.to address our first hypothesis we repeatedly sampled two biphasic newt species lissotriton vulgaris and ichthyosaura alpestris in a field survey and also performed a semi-natural experiment housing a third newt species triturus cristatus in enclosures within field habitats.

newt skin microbe fluctuations were not correlated with that of pond microbiota however a portion of community variation was explained by environmental temperature.

as the environmental reservoir shifts tempo- rally and the newt skin environment changes it recruits different taxa independent of phylogenetic identity which are best able to reside within existing physiochemical parameters of the skin at the same time selective pressure on the host may lead to evolution of a mucosal environment making it particularly suitable for some protective bacteria that is fungal-inhibiting taxa thereby explaining maintenance of bd-inhibitory function amidst tem- poral phylogenetic variation in the underlying otus within this study.

see supplementary figure s1 for phylogenetic diversity pd of individuals of t. cristatus through time.location elmspecies ichthyosaura alpestris0.90.80.7 0.6 0.50.40.30.20.10location kleiwiesen species lissotriton vulgarislocation kleiwiesen species triturus cristatusfigure 2 temporal variation in host-associated skin bacterial communities of three european newt species.

