The previously observed enrichment of Akkermansia after HF diet was not observed in the presence of antibiotic administration mean relative abundances HF v NF 0.022 v. 0.001 respectively.Fiber supplementation improves survival in endotoxemia sepsis model-- Finally we sought to determine if the protective effect of a HF diet in a CLP model could be recapitulated in another model of sepsis the murine endotoxemia model.

However mice that were fed HF diet demonstrated a delay in the onset of death and a significant reduction in overall mortality 50 at 96 h P0.026.At one day after CLP plasma concentrations of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor TNF interleukin IL-1a and IL-1b and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 MCP-1 were significantly lower in mice fed HF diet compared to LF and NF dietmice P0.05 Figure 2A-D. IL-1a and IL-1b concentrations were similar in LF and NF diet groups but interestingly TNF and MCP-1 were highest in the LF diet animals.

In contrast HF diet fed mice demonstrated a preservation of the hepatic architecture with infrequent necrosis reduction in inflammatory cell infiltration and decreased ballooning degeneration G. H MPO an enzyme present in neutrophils was measured as an index of neutrophil infiltration into the pulmonary tissue at 3 and 6 hours after CLP in the NF and HF diet mice.

Interestingly the NF and LF groups were each enriched with the genera Bifidobacterium Allobaculum and Enterococcus.Antibiotic administration negates the protective effect of cellulose supplementationTo explore whether the protective effect of the high cellulose diet is mediated in part by the gut microbiota we exposed animals in the HF and NF diet groups to broad spectrum oral antibioticsin their drinking water for 2 weeks prior to CLP.

Represents P  0.05 versus shammice  represents P  0.05 versus mice fed with NF and LF diet and subjected to CLP E-G Representative hepatic sections from NF LF and HF diet mice that were sacrificed 7 days after CLP.

Subjects 6 week old male C57BL6 wild-type mice.Interventions--Mice were assigned to low-fiber LF normal-fiber NF or high-fiber HF diets with or without antibiotics for two weeks and then subjected to sepsis by cecal ligation and puncture CLP or endotoxin injection.

Fecal samples were collected for microbiota analyses before and after dietary interventions.Measurements and Main Results--Mice that received a HF diet demonstrated increased survival after CLP relative to mice receiving LF or NF diets.

Twenty four hours after arrival C57BL6 mice 6-8 weeks old were randomized to receive chemically defined diets DyetsInc Bethlehem PA containing low LF fiber concentration 0.4 normal NF fiber concentration 5 or high HF fiber concentration 30 n24 in each group.

When an independent variable had a significant P value a posthoc t test with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons was performed.Morowitz et al.Page 5ResultsSupplementation with cellulose reduces inflammation and improves survival after cecal ligation and punctureMice were fed with either NF LF or HF diets for two weeks and then subjected to CLP.

Finally we noted significantly lower MPO activity in the lung at 3 and 6 h after CLP in HF diet mice relative to NF diet mice P0.05 Figure 2H.

