pubs.acs.orgjournalaidcbcstructural and functional survey of environmental aminoglycoside acetyltransferases reveals functionality of resistance enzymeszhiyu xupeter j. stogiosandrew t. quailekevin j. forsbergsanket patel tatiana skarinascott houlistoncheryl arrowsmithgautam dantasand alexei savchenkodepartment of chemical engineering and applied chemistry university of toronto 200 college street room 333 toronto ontario m5s 3e5 canadacenter for structural genomics of infectious diseases csgid health research innovation center 3280 hospital drive nw calgary alberta t2n 4n1 canadasscenter for genome sciences  systems biology washington university school of medicine 4515 mckinley avenue room 5314 st. louis missouri 63110 united statesdepartment of pathology and immunology washington university school of medicine 660 s. euclid avenue st. louis missouri 63110 united statespdepartment of medical biophysics university of toronto 101 college street room 4-601 toronto ontario m5g 1l7 canadadepartment of biomedical engineering washington university in st. louis 1 brookings drive st. louis missouri 63130-6100 united statesdepartment of molecular microbiology washington university school of medicine 660 s. euclid avenue st. louis missouri 63110 united statesdepartment of microbiology immunology and infectious diseases university of calgary 2c66 health research innovation center 3280 hospital drive nw calgary alberta t2n 4n1 canada ntibiotic resistance poses a long-term challenge to health agriculture and economic development threating to become a global public health crisis overshadowing recent viral outbreaks.in response to this threat surveillance is one of the pillars of the strategy adopted by multiple countriesa basic research aspect of such surveillance efforts is to identify and understand the source of antibiotic resistance genes args.

at the same time the ability of meta-aac0005 meta-aac0007 and meta-aac0012 enzymes to confer resistance to tobramycin is in line with aac3-ii resistance enzymes.overall this analysis showed that meta-aac enzymes are able to confer high-level resistanceto aminoglycosides when heterologously expressed in e. coli on par with the pathogen-originated aac3-ib.in vitro activity of meta-aac enzymes rivals that of resistance enzymes isolated from pathogens.

2014 antimicrobial resistance global report on surveillance who geneva.pehrsson e. c. forsberg k. j. gibson m. k. ahmadi s. and dantas g. 2013 novel resistance functions uncovered using functional metagenomic investigations of resistance reservoirs.

all four tested meta-aac enzymes conferred resistance to gentamicin and sisomicin even at the highest tested concentration 135 mgml except for meta-aac0020 which conferred sisomicin resistance only up to 45 mgml .

it is known that antibiotic resistance can arise through intrinsic resistance i.e.

genes or cellular structures such as the outer membrane that are native to bacteria andwhereby antibiotic-resistant organisms and their resistance genes are to be rapidly detected and their presence communicated through the medical and scientific community.received may 3 2017published july 30 2017c 2017 american chemical society653doi figure 1. chemical structures of aminoglycosides.provide protection from antibiotics or through the acquisition of foreign genes encoding the resistance functionality by horizontal gene transfer.the evolutionary origin of args has been traced to the environmental organisms producing these molecules as part of their interspecies survival strategy or to benign bacteria that occupy overlapping niches with the producers.

characterization ofenvironmental args would allow for linking clinical resistance with the environmental resistome allow evaluation of the potential of these environmental genes to evolve into clinically important args and provide targets for surveillance of potential new and emerging antibiotic resistance determinants.

however aacs are the main source of clinical resistance of gram-negative pathogenic bacteria to essentially all clinically relevant aminoglycosides.to date there have been more than 70 aacs identified in pathogens demonstrating the spread of this resistance mechanism.many aac genes are encoded in mobile genetic elements i.e.

plasmids transposons and integrons whichfacilitate their dissemination and are found colocalized with args for other classes of antibiotics such as b-lactamases.in other instances aac genes are chromosomal and thus provide intrinsic resistance andor represent evolutionary antecedents to mobilized resistance genes.- while aacs have been widely detected in clinical isolates their presence in environ- mental bacteria which may represent the ultimate reservoir andfigure 2. phylogenetic reconstruction of meta-aac sequences.

the functional metagenomics screening of soil microbial commun-ities that identified over two dozen metagenomic aac meta- aacs enzymes utilized a low 16 mgml concentration of gentamicin to identify heterologous resistance in e. coli.the potential of these enzymes to mediate clinical levels of resistance and molecular determinants of function was not further characterized.according to the ncbi conserved domain database of these 27 meta-aacs 16 belong to the gcn5-related n- acetyltransferase gnat protein superfamily while 11 are part of the antibiotic n-acetyltransferase antibioticnat protein superfamily.

notably meta-aac0005 meta-aac0007 and meta-aac0012 also conferred resistance to tobramycin with the strain harboring meta-aac0007 demonstrating resistance even at the concentration of 135 mgml.

the strain harboring aac3-ib demonstrated resistance to gentamicin and sisomicin in accordance with the regiospecificity estab- lished for this resistance enzyme.this observed selectivity of the four meta-aac enzymes for the 46-disubstituted 2- deoxystreptamine aminoglycosides is reminiscent of activity established for aac3-i enzymes.

overall this analysis showed that while meta-aac0020 harbors aac6' activity and places the acetylation site of sisomicin at a spatially conserved position with aac6' enzymes it possesses distinct molecular binding determinants to recognize the other parts of the 46'- disubstituted aminoglycoside scaffold.discussionthe rise of resistance to aminoglycoside antibiotics in the clinic is associated primarily with the activity of aminoglycoside modifying enzymes of which aacs are of particular relevance.

according to our resistance assays meta-aac0020 is ineffective against amikacin which possessesa hydroxyl group at the 3' position.

the position of the coa molecule in both meta-aac0005 and meta-aac0020 structures is very similar such that the superposition of these two complex structures showed excellent alignment across thebound product molecules except for a difference in the position of the mostly solved-exposed adenine ring a. furthermore the interactions between the meta-aac enzymes and coa molecules follow characteristics reminiscent of previously characterized gnat family members.specifically a b-bulge formed by b4 residues tyr85-asp86 and tyr91- asp92 from meta-aac0005 and meta-aac0020 respectively and a bab motif b4-a3-b5 contributed to the pyrophosphate binding site in both complex structures.

