additional analyses of the effects of hypertension control on sprint renal outcomes are underway although the power to detect effects of bp control on ckd progres- sion may have been impacted by the early cessation of sprint as a result of beneficial effects on the primary outcome.aggressive hypertension control in nondiabetic aask participants with ckd including using high-dose renin- angiotensin system blockade failed to impact the primary composite outcome of death dialysis or doubling of serum creatinine concentration.3 as in the mdrd study a subsequent1section on nephrology department of internalmedicine wake forest school of medicine winston-salem north carolina usa.correspondence barry i. freedman section on nephrology wake forest school of medicine medical center boulevard winston-salem north carolina 27157-1053 usa.

as noted by sol- eimani et al.their report of a probiotic mixture's effect on glycemic control and insulin resistance in dialysis patients should be considered in light of similar studies in patients who do not have renal failure.in patients with renal failure the colon microbiome may have effects thatn this issue soleimani et al.2016 described the beneficial effects of a probiotic mixture in diabeticpatients maintained on hemodialysis.

probiotics may have some metabolic effects however the magnitude of these effects generally appears to be modest and their mechanisms are uncertain.other means to manipulate the microbiome are being considered and commercial investment in the area is increasing rapidly.

however longer-term effects of controlling hy- pertension in patients who have ckd are becoming available and have shown survival benefits that potentially are related to reductions in cardiovascular disease cvd.the modification of diet in renal disease study failed to show significant effects of more aggressive hypertension control on nephropathy progression.

if we could identify healthy microbiomes in select dialysis patients we might be able to transplant them into patients whose microbiomes have more adverse effects.

one potential means is to increase dietary fiber intake.microbiome's composition aggravate its ill effects in uremia.dialysis patients have low fiber intake which is one of the best-established modifiers of the colon microbial population.in addition their colonic environment is altered by accu- mulation of endogenous compounds including urea uric acid and oxalate and by ingestion of numerous medica- tions.

however the effects of pro- biotics are questionable.

further mechanistic knowledge also could lead to treatments with more profound anti- inflammatory and antioxidant effects than were obtained by soleimani et al.kidney international 2017 91 270-283275commentary with probiotic administration.

however a follow-up study supported a survival benefit from earlier bp con- trol.1 similarly initial sprint results did not show that a systolic bp target of 120 mm hg vs. 140 mm hg appre-apol1 genotype bloodpressure and survival in african americans with nondiabetic nephropathytodd w. robinson1 and barry i. freedman1several landmark trials have assessed the effects of aggressive hypertension control on the progression of nondiabetic chronic kidney disease.

with the realization that lowering blood pressure including with renin- angiotensin system blockade failed to reliably prevent end-stage kidney disease studies now are analyzing longer-term effects of hypertension control on survival in chronic kidney disease.

e-mail everal large trials have assessed the effects of lowering blood pressure bp and improving dietary andlipid risk factors on the progression of nondiabetic chronic kidney disease ckd.

notable studies included the modification of diet in renal diseasereport supported beneficial effects of earlier hypertension control on death in these african american par- ticipants with ckd that was indepen- dent from nephropathy.3 because aask enrolled only african americans with nondiabetic ckd analyses of the276kidney international 2017 91 270-283

