there is a direct dependence of the fungal propagules content in the air mainly the spores that are able to protect themselves from the unfavorable factors on their content in the soil.the ground air layers of the arctic and the antarctica usu- ally contain a small amount of the cultivated fungi with the lim- ited species composition.the number of the airborne fungi was 0.77 cfu m3 in the antarctica air3.1 cfu m3 in the arctic islands air60 cfu m3 in the tundra and polar deserts air and up to 150 cfu m3 in the inhabited areas of the arctic ocean islands.the research on the number and species composition of the airborne fungi in megacities has been fulfilled.there is a trend towards the increase of the dark pigmented fungi species in the cities air especially during the leaf fall period.the murmansk region is a part of the onshore arctic area of the russian federation from 67o1101700 n32o2500300 e to 69o 180 5300 n 32o 030 1300 e. the region is characterized by a unique combination of natural and anthropogenic factors severecontact maria v. korneykova14a academgorodok apatity murmansk region 184209 institute of the industrial ecology problems of the north kola science center russian academy of sciences apatity the russian federation.c 2017 taylor  francis group llcclimatic conditions and intensive industrial development the kandalaksha aluminum plant the copper-nickel plantspechenganickel severonickel and others.

near the alumi- num plant a decrease in the species diversity of airborne fungi was specified in comparison with the background site that is 18 species instead of 28. in the region of the copper-nickel plant a significant decrease in the species diversity of fungi was revealed in the area of maximum contamination in comparison with the background area 7 species instead of 25. irrespective of the emissions composition in the air of both the aluminum and the copper-nickel plants the fungi of genus penicillium predominated making 40-60 of the total distinguished spe- cies amount.five species of airborne fungi were identified in the most contaminated area of the kandalaksha aluminum plant emis- sions aspergillus repens penicillium aurantiogriseum p. ochro- chloron talaromyces variabilis torula herbarum which were not found in other areas.

communities.88 ss 3315 ss 8105 ss 2227 ss 3number of colonies on the dish k is a coefficient per 1 m3 k4 at the volume of transmitted air of 250 l k 2.86 at the volume of transmitted air of 350 l. the identification of fungi was carried out according to the culture-morphological charac- teristics using standard identification guides.the portion of dark pigmented and opportunistic fungi was determined as a percentage of the total number isolated and identified fungi species.

there is evidence that gusts of wind and its average velocity influence the number of fungal spores in the air morefigure 1. the bacteria and fungi number in the air by the contamination gradient due to the emissions of the plant pechenganickel.than temperature.probably due to this the number of bac- teria and fungi in the air did not decrease in autumn especially in the eroded urbanized areas with higher numbers of fungi and bacteria in the air than in more remote regions.

there are fungi of all these genera in thefigure 2. opportunistic fungi in the air of the contaminated and background plots in the taiga zone.air of the contaminated areas where aspergillus penicillium cladosporium genera are represented by a great variety of spe- cies and the fungi of genera alternaria curvularia tricho- derma fusarium are identified.conclusionthus the new data on the number and diversity of microorgan- isms in the ground air layer at high latitudes in natural and anthropogenic conditions have been obtained.

according to the literature data the content of the opportunistic fungi increases in the large industrial centers in urban environment.the goal of this research is to study the number and diversity of microorganisms fungi and bacteria of the ground air layer in the natural and industrial zones of the murmansk region.materials and methodsclimatic characteristics of the research areathe average climatic indices presented in do not affect only the vegetation and soil cover but also the ground air com- position including its biological components.

the por- tion of airborne fungi was higher than bacteria accounting to 60-77 of the total number.the highest amount of fungi in the impact area with air-gas emissions of the aluminum plant was detected over the nearest area 0.5 km to the plant.

in the ground air of both tundra and taiga the group of fungi with a sterile mycelium was widely represented.in the taiga zone the diversity of airborne fungi is richer than in the tundra zone as the former is located territorially to the south and has more diverse vegetation from the surface of which the fungal spores can penetrate the air.

cladosporium cladosporioides c. oxysporum were distinguished in the air of taiga.the species diversity of fungi in the air polluted by the emis- sions of the aluminum plant is represented by 30 species belonging to 15 genera 12 families 7 orders 5 classes 2 divi- sions in the air polluted by the emissions of the copper-nickel plant 17 species belonging to 8 genera 8 families 7 orders 4table 4. species diversity of the airborne fungi in the natural and industrial zones of the murmansk region.polluted plotsthe aluminum plantthe copper nickel plantbackground plotsspecies of fungi123123taigatundra division zygomycota class incertae sedis order mucorales family mortierellaceaemortierella alpina peyronelfamilyumbelopsidcaceaecumbelopsis isabellina oudem.

near the industrial plants the species of this group were revealed in the composition of airborne fungi which were not found in the air of the remote areas from the emission sources torula herbarum alternaria alternata curvularia intermadia cladosporium herbarum.the portion of opportunistic airborne fungi in the air increased near the plants and consequently in the settlements.

the air of the rybachy peninsula where there are no industrial plants and the anthropogenic load is minimal is characterized by relative purity the number of air- borne fungi is 11-144 cfu 1 m3.in both of tundra and taiga areas genus penicillium domi- nates among fungi and gram-positive bacteria dominate among bacterial biota.

most of them belong to opportunistic fungi and may pose a potential hazard to human health.acknowledgmentsthe studies were carried out with the financial support in the framework of the fundamental research program of the presidium of the russian acad- emy of sciences wild life baseline conditions and development issues.referencesjedryczka m. aeromycology studies of fungi in aeroplankton.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in journal of environmental science and health part a  november 2017doi 10.108010934529.2017.1397444citations0reads152 authors 18 publications 14 citations 126 publications 149 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsarctic coast bioremediation soil fungi biodiversity all content following this page was uploaded by on 25 april 2018.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.journal of environmental science and health part atoxichazardous substances and environmental engineeringissn 1093-4529 print 1532-4117 online journal homepage microbiota of the ground air layers in natural and industrial zones of the kola arcticmaria v. korneykova  galina a. evdokimovato cite this article maria v. korneykova  galina a. evdokimova 2017 microbiota of the ground air layers in natural and industrial zones of the kola arctic journal of environmental science and health part a doi 10.108010934529.2017.1397444to link to this article published online 10 nov 2017.article views 4view crossmark datafull terms  conditions of access and use can be found at journal of environmental science and health part a 2017 vol.

0 1-7microbiota of the ground air layers in natural and industrial zones of the kola arcticmaria v. korneykova and galina a. evdokimovainstitute of the industrial ecology problems of the north kola science center russian academy of sciences apatity russiaarticle historyreceived 8 july 2017 accepted 18 october 2017keywordsairborne fungi bacteria tundra taiga industrial zone the kola peninsula the rybachy peninsulaintroductionthe atmospheric air is considered to be unfriendly environ- ment for the development of microorganisms due to the lack of nutrients dryness and high temperatures during certain peri- ods of time and ultraviolet irradiation.

owing to the ubiquitous develop- ment and sporulation of fungi in the environment the spores penetrate the air flows and contact inevitably with the human respiratory organs.the number of microorganisms in the air can fluctuate con- siderably and reach tens of thousands per 1 m3.

