second we examine the involvement of the microbiome in the pathogenesis of infection among cancer patients to include the impact of the gastroin- testinal microbiota on epithelial integrity and immune responses during cancer treatment and how this may play into bacterial translocation and thus infection.

an increased knowl- edge of the interplay between potential pathogens protective commensals and the host immune system may facilitate the development of novel biomark- ers or therapeutics that could help ameliorate the toll that infections take during the treatment of cancer.infections during cancer treatmentinfections are among the gravest threat to patients being treated for cancer with multiple studies finding infection to be one of the leading causes of death in patients with a wide array of malignancies .

recent studies have solidified our understanding that commensal microorganisms or the microbiome can prevent colonization and subsequent infection by pathogenic bacteria .

finally we discuss possible future areas of investigation within this field.1the department of infectious diseases infection control and employee health the university of texas md anderson cancer center houston tx usa2the department of genomicmedicine the university of texas md anderson cancer center houston tx usa992 trends in microbiology december 2017 vol.

we believe that advances in the characterizing of the entire microbial components of the microbiome will facilitate a better understanding of interkingdom interactions that influence infection and the full range of pathogens that affect the cancer patient in the near future see outstanding questions.bacterial bloodstream infections bsis are particularly common in the neutropenic patient as a result of a combination of epithelial damage due to chemotherapy and immunosuppression .

similarly mortality rates from bsi in the cancer patient vary depending on the group and infection types studied but can reach50 for highly resistant organisms in the setting of neutropenia .the major causes of bsi in the cancer patient are shown in .

in general staphylococcal infections originate from vascular catheters whereas the gi tract is the source of infection for the other organisms shown in .

and stenotrophomonas mal- tophilia .antimicrobial resistance is increasingly common among bacteria causing infection in the cancer patient which threatens a return to the early days of leukemia therapy when pseudomonas bsi carried up to a 70 mortality rate .

systematic studies have found extended-spectrum b-lactamase esbl production in up to 40 of bsis caused by enterobacteriaceae most commonly due to e. coli and k. pneumoniae with mortality rates in such infection approaching 50 .

as a result ofcancer-treatment-related damage to the gi epithelium and prevalent use of antimicrobials the rates of c. difficile infection cdi are some 30 higher among cancer patients compared to the general medical population .

this scenario is referred to as 'intestinal domination' which is thought to be associated with eventual infection .

in addition temporal variability of a- and b-diversity has also been associated with recurrent risk of infection in leukemia patients .

among these lym- phoma patients those who developed subsequent bsi were enriched in functional categories associated with xenobiotic biodegradationmetabolism and reduced in functional categories associated with transcription amino acid metabolism and lipid biosynthesis proteins usingfigure 1. factors contributing to gastrointestinal microbiome-mediated infection in treated cancer patients.

in the treated cancer patient there is a balance that exists between a healthy microbiome with maintained mucosal integrity and dysbiosis concurrent with mucosal barrier injury with regard to gastrointestinal microbiome-mediated infection.

in the treated cancer patient multiple factors contribute to gastrointestinal microbiome-mediated infection to include antibiotics and other drugs which cause microbial dysbiosis and pathogen domination and host factors such as malignancy and cancer treatment which contribute to immune dysfunction and mucositis.

