aflatoxi- genic a. flavus isolates were identified from both biofilm and the water samples of ct 16 and 17 .identification of fungal isolatesa total of 224 fungal isolates were subcultured 141 and 83 fungal colonies from water and biofilm samples.

while the highest fungal count was detected in ct4 in october the lowest fungal counts were in ct21 in february .meteorological parameters such as wind rainfall and also vegetation are associated with fungal growth and dis- persal in air.

the remarkable findings are listed belowthe counts of fungi recorded in the water samples rangedfrom 21 to 1070 cfu100 ml and from 1 to 12 cfu cm2 in the biofilm samples.from the 224 fungal strains isolated 32 species were ident-ified belonging to 15 genera as identified by its sequencing.the most common isolated fungi belonged to the generaaspergillus and penicillium of which the most prevalent were a. versicolor a. niger and p. dipodomyicola.fourteen aflatoxigenic a. flavus strains were isolatedfrom 42 of surveyed cts.the detection of aspergillus penicillium and fusariumspecies suggests that the open recirculating cts are a possible source of infection.culture-independent techniques as a complementary technique should be used to determine both the fungal com- munity and total fungal concentration in environmental samples.acknowledgementsthis work was supported by the 'scientific research projects coordination unit of istanbul university' project number 42519.referencesal-gabr h. m. zheng t.  xin y. .

fungal biodiversity and mycotoxigenic fungi in cooling-tower water systems in istanbul turkey duygu goksay kadaifciler and rasime demirelabstractthis is the first study to assess fungal diversity and mycotoxigenic fungi in open recirculating cooling- tower ct water systems biofilm and water phase.

besides this fungi can be transmitted directly to the technician in contact with the water during the phys- ical cleaning of the basin or the inside surface of the tower which may lead to irritation of the skin .most previous studies have shown that hospital water systems and hemodialysis centers have been infected withdoi 10.2166wh.2017.274biofilm connected to a municipal water system 2 to ident- ify the mycobiota by molecular and morphological methods and 3 to determine the production capability of aflatoxin and ochratoxin by examining the secondary metabolite pro- files of fungal isolates.methodologywater sampling and fungal isolationfigure 1  open recirculating cts.aspergillus and fusarium sp.

to the best of our knowledge this is the first study to evaluate fungal diversity and mycotoxigenic fungi in open recirculating ct water systems.the aims of this study were 1 to determine fungal bio- diversity in ct water systems in the water phase andistanbul's climate is changeable somewhere between the black sea climate and the mediterranean climate and is therefore generally mild in character.

all fungal author names and fungal names in this article are standardized according to the index fun- gorum website.thin-layer chromatographyfungal isolates were cultured on yeast extract sucrose agar and incubated at 25 wc for 7 days.

therefore the fungal isolates that showed different metab- olite profiles were selected for molecular identification.molecular identification of fungiselected fungal isolates according to differences of second- ary metabolite profiles were inoculated into malt extract agar and incubated at 25 wc for 7 days.

the highest fungal count was detected in ct 4. fungi could not be detected in one of the ct water samples ct 21. in the biofilm samples fungal counts ranged from 1 to 12 cfucm2.

while 29 fungal species were isolated from water samples 24 fungal species were isolated from biofilm samples.

reported that while free fungal spores were susceptible to high concentrations of free chlorine fungal biofilms were resistant.

however additional studies have reported that fungal spores are much more resistant to chlorine than are biofilm or fungal mycelia   .

in the pre- sent study fungal counts in 21 ct biofilm samples ranged from 1 to 12 cfucm2.while reported that fungal counts ranged from 4 to 25 cfucm2 other studies have only examined the existence and biodiversity of fungi in biofilm.

the production capability of mycotoxin from fungal isolates was also examined.

the mean fungal count in 21 different water and biofilm samples was determined as 234 cfu100 ml and 4 cfucm2.

