notably gc development might take longer than 20 years and ideal design of the study should include long-term observations on microbiome dynamics and spontaneous host genetic changes over the time such as mutation accumulation.references.. ........14zhang et al....................gastric microbiome and gastric carcinogenesis15.........' .........16zhang et al......... ...........gastric microbiome and gastric carcinogenesis17....... .............18zhang et al....................gastric microbiome and gastric carcinogenesis19...................20zhang et al........

among 128 participants who were histologically h pylori positive prevalence was 94 for acute gastritis and 100 for chronic gastritis.after persistent colonization within the gastric mucosa h pylori has been significantly associated with the development of different stages of gastric diseases from chronic gastritisgastric ulcersatrophic gastritisintestinal metaplasiaand finally to gc.several studies and meta-analyses support these findings.besides gastritis and gc h pylori has also been identified as a risk factor for other upper gi diseases.

although there are multiple factors that may cause functional dyspepsia h pylori is still considered a likely culprit.a recent retrospective study of 5156 patients revealed that h pylori infection was significantly more common among those with gerd odds ratio 5 1.17.interestingly h pylori also has been reported with inverse correlations to some diseases.

h py- lori also affects the hormones and density-dependent humoral and cellular immune responses within the gastric environment.hormones that modulate immunity and gastric acid secretion promote a th1 response.more research is needed to characterize the physiologic differences related to h pylori status including variation in the gastric microbiota as well as its clinical implications.evidence for prolonged microbiome shifts associated with prior infection with helicobacter pylorianother unique feature of h pylori infection within the gut is its potential for long-term disturbances of the microbiota even after individuals clear infection.

multiple meta-analyses revealed that decline of h pylori coloniza- tion in the past few decades may be responsible for an increase of esophageal cancer incidence in western countries.although 95 duodenal ulcer occurred in the presence of h pylori infectionin the cohort of patients with duodenal ulcers the inci- dence of gc was significantly lower than expected.epstein-barr virusas another identified risk factor for developing gc ebvis responsible for 5 to 20 of gc worldwide.

h pylori is then able to colonize the epithelium and elicit an intricate immune response of inflam- matory cytokines leading to peptic ulcers or chronic gastritis.highly carcinogenic strains of h pylori carry the cytotoxin-associated gene a caga.

among all h pylori-infected individ- uals only 1 to 3 develop gc.gastric tumorigenesis studies should incorporate host genetic characteristic and virulence diversity of h pylori strains as well as the entire microbiome community.

although it is unlikely that different identification approaches will agree in bacterial identification the most abundant species should always be detected by all methods.epidemiologic associations with diseaseshelicobacter pylorigc is a heterogeneous disease with several established risk factors one of the most significant being chronic gastric inflammation due to infection by the gram-negative facultative intracellular bacillus h pylori.unlike other common factors causing acute gastritis h pylori-associated acute gastritis is usually asymptomatic thus it could be easily ignored and delayed.

the study of h pylori and its asso- ciated gastric microbiome is of increasing importance in the study of gastrointestinal gi diseases and chronic immune response.

bacteria such as escherichia coli and h pylori exhibit increased membrane protein production and buffering capacity allowing these bacteria to resist acid degradation upon entry to the stomach.

for example h pylori is known to reduce the acidity within the stomach thus enabling other bacteria to colonize an environment where they might not otherwise survive.

in one study up to 28 of total variance in gastric microbiota between subjects was explained by h pylori infection status.esophageal bacteriabiopsies from the normal human esophagus commonly contain bacterial members of the phyla firmicutes bacteroides actinobacteria proteobacteria and fusobac- teria.although the predominant phyla of the esophagus fit the profile of those found within the gastric environment the species composition is fundamentally different.4zhang et alfig.

human papilloma virus has been strongly correlated with esophageal squamous carcinoma and may play agastric microbiome and gastric carcinogenesis5mechanistic role for the development of other cancers along the gi tract.other oncogenic viruses infecting other regions of the body that may yet be found to influ- ence the gastric environment include human cytomegalovirus merkel cell polycoma- virus and hepatitis b and c viruses.when combined statistically to those cancers caused by h pylori bacterium these microbial pathogens may account for more than 15 of the cancer burden worldwide.archaeaarchaea are single-celled prokaryotic organisms that are members of their own genet- ically distinct domain.

several studies show strong correlations between h pylori and acute gastritis.

twenty-eight of 35 participants either had a positive h pylori infection history or had a new infection within 12 months.

