The faecal microbiota transplant procedure particularly used to treat recurrent diarrhoea caused by Clostridium difficile and the methodological bases of the new molecular techniques used to characterise microbiota are also described.c 2017 Elsevier Espana S.L.U.

The term microbiome refers to the entire habitat including the microorganisms their genes and the environmental conditions.

The most complex diverse and numerous is the one associated with the digestive tract par- ticularly in the caecum where the density of micro-organisms is the highest in our body.

The use of molecular tech- niques has enabled identifying and taxonomically assigning most microorganisms without the need to culture them.This advance as well as other microbiological techniques that will be detailed in this article have led to a true revolution in the knowledge of the microbiota and its implication in the health and illness of human beings.Clinical considerationsFrom birth there is a symbiotic relationship between the micro- biota and our cells that evolves over time adapting to changes.Due to its enormous metabolic capacity the microbiota has been con- sidered as an essential organ for life with an influence on health and illness.It is composed of unique features and characteristics of each individual and may vary depending on genetics diet and interaction with the environment.The study of this ecosystem is a field of rapid scientific progress with it being universally accepted that to reach an adequate state of health it is also necessary to have a healthy microbiota.

The level of these changes is defined not only by the nature strength and duration of the alter-ation but also by the composition and stability of each microbiota assuming that each is unique to each person.

The increase of Firmicutes has also been described physiologically in elderly people as a consequence of age.The main functions of the intestinal microbiota are to prevent colonisation by other pathogenic microorganisms help digest food produce vitamins B and K that the human body is not able to syn- thesise and finally and by no means less important to stimulate the immune system.

The main health indicators of the microbiota are its richness number of microor- ganisms and its biodiversity number of species.

The first guidelines recommended carrying out the transfer in the third recurrence however in a recent review it is recommended that it be carried out after the second episode of diarrhoea.

The absence of communicable diseases in the donor is an essential requirement and international guidelines include the dis- orders that must be ruled out before accepting a donor.

The vast majority of studies focus on the intestinal microbiota since it is the largest and most involved in our state of health.

