examples of epigenetic traits related to metabolic conditions involve obesity 39-42 glucose homeostasis 4344 and lipid metabolism 45 and microbiota 46. genetic factors also contribute where a genetic variant in a strain that is resistant to diet-induced metabolic conditions epigenetically transferred resistance to a genetically-susceptible strain with resistance persisting forattie et al.page 6multiple generations and reversible with specific crosses 47. these unexpected results suggest that the ongoing epidemic of metabolic disease may have genetic and environmental origins in early in life and in preceding generations 45. the challenge now is to identify the molecular basis for epigenetic inheritance as well as to establish the chain of causality that leads from somatic exposures to environmental factors and genetic variants through heritable epigenetic changes in the germline to phenotypic variation in later generations.these experiments are complex involving rigorous control of genetics and environment so that specific factors can be manipulated and their consequences evaluated.

the more than 600 microbial species alone and together process dietary intake in essential ways to host physiology microbial dysbiosis is major contributor to host dysfunction through their diverse effects on human metabolism 48. these effects depend heavily on as yet unidentified host genetic factors 49-54. mouse models will continue to be essential for these studies because combinations of fecal transplants as well as host genetic manipulations can be used to dissect mechanistic relations in controlled ways that are highly relevant to public health but difficult to conduct in human populations.genetic resourcesover the last 15 years many mouse genetic resource populations have been reported.

two spontaneous mutations arose in mice at the jackson laboratory ob in 1950 12 and db in 1965 13. the mutant mice are both obese and hyperinsulinemic 14. douglas coleman conducted parabiosis experiments where the circulatory systems of db or ob mice were surgically connected to that of normal mice test or to each other control 15. when the db mouse was paired with a normal mouse or an ob mouse the ob mouse died of starvation figure 1a.

when coleman connected the circulations of the two mutant mice the db mouse remained obese while the ob mouse starved to death 15. coleman concluded that the ob mouse lacked a circulating satiety factor and the db mouse lacked its receptor.

with newly-developed mouse resources it is now possible to achieve power and mapping resolution of tens of thousands of humans with only hundreds of mice.impossible without a mutant mousetwo classic discoveriesleptin insightful physiology genetic triumph epistatic interactions--long before gene discovery was feasible physiological studies led to insights not only aboutattie et al.page 4satiety control but also about hormonal regulation of multi-organ systems and gene interaction networks that coordinate metabolic activities.

dissecting the effect of genetic variation on theattie et al.page 13hepatic expression of drug disposition genes across the collaborative cross mouse strains.

but when an ob mouse was paired with a normal mouse the normal mouse was unaffected.

we discuss the advantages of the mouse as a model organism.recent findings--the collection of available mouse strains represents as much genetic and phenotype variation as is found in the human population.

2003 1631227-1235. pubmed 12702670attie et al.page 10wang x pandey ak mulligan mk williams eg mozhui k li z jovaisaite v quarles ld xiao z huang j et al.

2002 81376-1382. pubmed 12426561attie et al.page 14konner ac janoschek r plum l jordan sd rother e ma x xu c enriori p hampel b barsh gs et al.

2016 202377-379. pubmed 26869482attie et al.page 15attie et al.page 16figure 1. parabiosis experimentsparabiosis experiments connect the circulatory systems of two mice.

coleman hypothesized that the ob mouse lacked a circulating satiety factor and the db mouse lacked the receptor for that factor.

technological advances and new genetic screening platforms in the mouse have greatly improved the path to gene discovery and mechanistic studies of gene function.keywordsmouse genetics obesity diabetes systems biology metabolic diseaseintroductionmost common human diseases involve loss of homeostatic control across multiple organ systems.

to support our argument we review selected highlights of past discoveries from studies related to obesity and diabetes in mouse models and then look ahead at new developments in model systems that will help us push beyond the limitations of the past.why study micemouse models have made significant contributions to our understanding of human biology and disease over the past century 6. these contributions have been based on the similarity between humans and mice in development physiology and genome organization as well as access to engineered mutants phenotyping platforms and genetic reference populations.the efficacy of such cross-species studies was recently demonstrated for 4500 metabolicphysiological pharmacological and behavioral traits 7homologyhomologous physiology and morphology between humans and mice enables the study of human diseases in a mammalian surrogate that is amenable to laboratory experimentation.

the eight founder strains capture a level of genetic diversity unsurpassed by any other extant mouse resource.

