The aim of our study was to evaluate the effects of probiotics on perinatal outcomes.Methods We retrospectively evaluated the effects of oral probiotics on perinatal outcome in patients at high risk of preterm birth.

Patients administered probiotics for prophylaxis of bacterial vaginosis or the treatment of constipation at the obstetrician's discretion were defined as the probiotics PB group n  45.

Patients not administered probiotics were defined as the non- probiotics non-PB group n  76.

Adjusted ORs 95 CI for preterm birth before 32 weeks were 0.05 0.01-0.71 and 53.5 7.34-390 for probiotics and fetal fibronectin respectively.Univariate regression analysis of CAMfunisitis showed that history of miscarriage fetal fibronectin and probiotics were significant variables Table 4.1 2.219 25.0t-test.

Previous reports have indicated that probiotics using Lactobacillus were effective for the treatment of bacterial vaginosis2223 and although not elucidated the prevention of preterm birth if any- thing is negative.223-25 Thus probiotics including Clostridium might be a key to our results.Our study does have some limitations.

2 241-247 February 2018Effect of probiotics on perinatal outcome in patients at high risk of preterm birthNami Kirihara Masato Kamitomo Tatsunori Tabira Takashi Hashimoto Hiroko Taniguchi and Takatsugu MaedaDepartment of Obstetrics and Gynecology Kagoshima City Hospital Kagoshima JapanAbstractAim Recent reports have shown lower levels of Clostridium and higher levels of Lactobacillales in the intesti- nal microbiota in preterm birth patients compared to term birth patients.

Patients not administered probiotics were defined as the non-probiotics group.

In addition multivariate regression analyses were performed to evaluate factors influencing preterm birth before 32 weeks chorioamnionitisfunisitis and normal vaginal flora.Results The probiotics group showed longer gestation higher birth weight lower rates of chorioamnionitis and higher rates of normal vaginal flora compared to the non-probiotics group.

Multivariate regression anal- ysis showed that probiotics significantly suppressed preterm birth before 32 weeks and tended to suppress chorioamnionitisfunisitis.

The adjusted odds ratios 95 confidence interval for preterm birth before 32 weeks and chorioamnionitisfunisitis were 0.05 0.01-0.71 and 0.07 0.01-1.03 respectively.Conclusions Oral probiotics containing Clostridium had a significant effect on the prevention of preterm birth before 32 weeks of gestation.Key words chorioamnionitis clostridium preterm birth probiotic regulatory T cell.IntroductionNearly 90 of preterm births resulting from infections are caused by ascending infection via the vagina and abnormal vaginal flora is considered an important factor leading to premature birth.

