gf mice showed exaggerated hpa stress response and motor activity and less anxi- ety-like behavior compared to specific pathogen-free mice 164. the modulation of gut microbiota is able toreverse this hpa stress response in the gf mice due to the use of bifidobacterium infantis 165. since 1910 different data from animal studies have provided the evidence of this relationship and the important effects of the use of probiotics on both gi and psychiatric symptoms 166. indeed species under lactobacillus and bifidobacterium genus have showed anti- depressant effects in different animal models 167 168 and healthy volunteers have low score in anxiety tests and low urinary free cortisol levels 169.on the other hand mental illnesses and stress- related alterations may also affect the microbiota pro- file 170. high levels of inflammation markers like il-6 tnf-a and il-1b 171 have been found in pa- tients with depression thus alteration in gut microbiota may be linked to depressive symptoms through the in- flammatory response.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in current medicinal chemistry  february 2017doi 10.21740929867324666170216113756citations6reads2579 authors including111 publications 3197 citations26 publications 3163 citations 334 publications 6366 citations175 publications 5165 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsmatfa gut microbiota as target for food allergy all content following this page was uploaded by on 12 march 2018.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.current medicinal chemistry 2017 24 1-221 review articlegut-brain axis role of lipids in the regulation of inflammation pain and cns diseasesroberto russoa claudia cristianoa carmen avaglianoa carmen de caroagiovanna la ranaa giuseppina mattace rasoa roberto berni cananib rosaria melia and antonio calignanoaadepartment of pharmacy federico ii university of naples via domenico montesano 49 80131 naples italy bdepartment of translational medicine-pediatric section university of naples federico ii naples italya r t i c l e h i s t o r yreceived october 31 2016revised january 02 2017accepted january 09 2017doi 10.217409298673246661702161 13756abstract the human gut is a composite anaerobic environment with a large diverse and dy- namic enteric microbiota represented by more than 100 trillion microorganisms including at least 1000 distinct species.

in this review we underline the relationship among inflammation pain microbiota and the different lipids fo- cusing on a possible involvement of naes and scfas in the gut-brain axis and their role in the central nervous system diseases.keywords gut brain inflammation ibs pain aea pea butyrate mood neurodegenerative disease.introductionthe human body primarily the gastrointestinal gi tract is widely colonized by several species of bacteriaabout 1014 bacterialcells and 500-1000 species col- lectively termed as the human microbiota.

their whole genome is called human microbiome 1 2. before birth the human fetal gut is sterile but few hours after delivery all the external stimuli such asaddress correspondence to this author at the via d. montesano 49 80131 naples italy tel 39 081678465 fax 39 081678403e -mail these authors contributed equally to this workenvironment diet maternal transfer or even the early introduction of antibiotics start to influence the coloni-0929-867317 58.00.00c 2017 bentham science publisherszation process leading in each different infant to an adult-like gut microbiota profile that will reach a cer- tain stability in composition and number at 1 year of age 3. given the high variability of bacterial commu- nities among individuals lately subjects have been classified into three distinct clusters -enterotypes- based on the prevalence of key bacterial genera in their gut microbiota composition i.e.

four weeks later the patients showed a significant decrease in the frequency of abdominal pain during defecation.recently the role of sodium butyrate in pain behav- iour and its derivative has been addressed the n-1- carbamoyl-2-phenyl-ethyl butyramide fba identi- fying different and converging genomic and non- genomic mechanisms of action which cooperate in nociception control 94. in this study a significant effect of both butyrate-based compounds was shown on inflammatory visceral pain and on neuropathic pain.gut-brain axis cns disease and lip- idsgut microbiota imbalance is known to influence the cns functions and viceversa emotional and physio- logical stress can influence gut microbiota through gut- brain axis.therefore it is a key factor understanding how gut microbes could exert beneficial and therapeutic effect on neurocognitive behaviors.

in particular between them propionic acid injected both peripherally and centrally in rodents in- duces repetitive behaviors and object preference 151 and also alters basic mitochondrial functions 152. in agreement with these studies prenatal or early postna- tal exposure to valproate an anti-epileptic and mood- stabilizing drug and histone deacetylase inhibitor like butyrate increases the risk of autism which was re- cently used to induce a mouse model of asd 153. on the other hand chronic treatment with sodium butyrate at postnatal period improved social behavior in a mouse model of autism 154. all together these stud- ies point out that the time of exposure is crucial to re- veal the effects of treatments on autism-like behavior.mood disordersamong the mental illnesses depression and anxiety are the result of a multi-factorial disease caused by be- havioral disturbance and immunological metabolic and neurotransmitter dysregulation common in people of all ages 155-157. they are also frequent conditions in obesity ibs patients and people with gi disturbances indicating a key role of the gut microbiota and the gut- brain axis in these disorders 158-160. literature shows three lines of evidence by which the gut micro- biota is correlated to depression namely through in- flammation the hpa axis or neurotransmitter signaling pathways 161. moreover early postnatal life repre- sents an important stage for both the stress response system and the colonization by gut microbiota which can influence the development of brain plasticity.

the impor-tance of scfa is highlighted by the same reports that show association between pd and the abundance of certain gut microbiota and show a reduction in fecal scfa concentrations 210 211. nevertheless changes in the gut microbiome could have a direct ef- fect on the cns via the gut-brain axis with a chronic mild systemic inflammation possibly driving the pathogenesis in fact microbiota can influence the de- velopment of normal motor patterns and thus alteration in its composition especially if sustained it may poten- tially lead to sensory-motor dysfunction 212. pd pa- tients show both dysmotility and alterations in the mi- crobiota composition but which one comes first is not clear yet.

it has been found that bdnf exhibits in brains and serum in patients with schizophrenia anxiety and ad 238. in experimental infection models that lead to alterations in the microbiota populations bdnf ex- pression is reduced in the hippocampus and cortex of gf mice and this reduction is associated with in- creased anxiety behavior and progressive cognitivedysfunction 16-239. finally pre-clinical findings show neurobiological mechanisms in which omega-3 alteration may contribute to the modulation of bdnf in the hippocampus the regulation of hpa axis and in neuroinflammation all conditions related to dysbiosis.it has also been shown that there exists an interac- tion between microbiota and the n-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptor.

recent studies have begun to underline the correlation between microbiome and its relevant factors to ms pathogenesis with a particular attention on eae models 245. berer and coworkers 246 have demon- strated that commensal microbiota is essential for the development of spontaneous eae in mog tcr dou- ble-transgenic mice which simulates opticospinal ms. gf rr mice were protected from eae because of an attenuated t helper 17 cells and auto-reactive b cell responses 246. eae can also be induced by commen- sal microbiota since gf b6 mice developed this pa- thology in a less severe manner characterized by de- creased interferon gamma and interleukin-17 re- sponses.

based on this background and considering the relevance of alteration of the symbiotic state between host and microbiota this review focuses on the role and the involvement of bioactive lipids such as the n-acylethanolamine nae family whose main members are n-arachidonoylethanolamine aea palmitoylethanolamide pea and oleoile- thanolamide oea and short chain fatty acids scfas such as butyrate belonging to a large group of bioactive lipids able to modulate peripheral and central pathologic processes.

a possible correlation has been shown between these lipids and gut microbiota through different mechanisms.

indeed systemic administration of specific bacteria can reduce abdominal pain through the involvement of cannabinoid receptor 1 in the rat on the other hand pea reduces inflammation markers in a murine model of inflammatory bowel disease ibd and butyrate producted by gut microbiota is effective in reducing in- flammation and pain in irritable bowel syndrome and ibd animal models.

however different sampling analysis and methods influence the detection of enterotypes with divergent interpretation of results 4.it is worth noting that the relationship established by commensal bacteria with the host seems to be more mutually symbiotic rather than a parasitism with hu- man host 5. in fact the gut microbiota contributes to the development of immune system behavior and cog- nition 6 and remarkably concur to maintain normal homeostasis through three major functions i it helps and protects the host against pathogen colonization by nutrient competition and production of active anti- microbial agents such as hydrogen peroxide acido- phylin acidolin lactallin etc.

interestingly im- balance of the gut microbiota dysbiosis can contrib- ute among others to the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disorders ibd 10 and irritable bowel syn- drome ibs 11 commonly described as gut-brain axis disorders.

a large body of evidence underlines the correla- tion between lipids and microbiota 14 identyfing en- docannabionids n-acylethanolamines naes and bu- tyrate among the main compounds having a key role in several pathologies associated to gut inflammation pain and central disorders.

