a bacterial taxa differentially enriched or depleted in sporadic cancer sc versus the normal mucosa nearby generated using lefse analysis lda score 2. b example of specific taxa individually represented for each patients differen- tially enriched in sporadic cancer sc versus the normal mucosa nearby t test  p  0.05. c bacterial taxa differentially enriched in sc versus cac or cac versus sc generated using lefse analysis lda score 2. d example of specific taxa individually represented for each patients differentially enriched in sc versus cac or cac versus sc t test  d p  0.05  d p 0.01.surprisingly the modification of the basidiomycota ascomycota ratio is one of the features that we identi- fied in a recent study on the modification of the fungal microbiota in ibd patients.however we showed that a dysbiosis different from the one observed in sc was present at the bacterial level in cac suggesting a differential role of bacteria in cac compared to sc pathogenesis.

a beta diversity evaluation represented by a principal coordinate analysis pca showed a clustering of samples according to disease phenotypes with a signif- icant difference between hs and both sc and cac but also between sc and cac  p d 0.01. however no clear clustering was observed between microbiota on tumor site and on healthy mucosa close to the tumor for both cac and sc patients  s1a and b.based on different indicators chao1 index and number of otu observed we observed a strong decrease in biodiversity alpha diversity of cac patients samples compared to hs.

as with the crc ibd development is influenced by modifications of the gut microbiota and clear evidence of a microbial dysbiosis has been shown in patients with ibd.specific bacteria involved in ibd have also been identified one of the most often described is a protective one the commensal faecalibacterium prauznitsii which population decreases in ibd patients and administration of f. prausnitzii strain a2-165 and its culture supernatant have been shown to protect against 246-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid tnbs-induced colitis in mice.however to date very little is known on the structure and function of the microbiota in cac and how it differs from the microbiota of sporadic cancer sc patients crc without ibd.in this study we investigated through barcode sequences analyses the mucosa-associated microbiota of sc and cac patients in comparison to healthy sub- jects hs taking into account both bacterial and fun- gal fractions.

we showed that contrary to fungi which remain stable a bacterial dysbiosis is present in cac gut microbiota that is specific and different from the dysbiosis observed in sc patients.resultsbacterial microbiota diversityour study population was composed of 7 patients with cac 10 patients with sc and 10 hs .

when comparing cac microbiota to the microbiota in the normal mucosa nearby streptococ- cus genus was specifically identified as increasing in cac supp fig 2a and b with no significant differ- ence when compared to the hs data not shown.

within bac- teroidetes the parabacteroides and the bacteroides genera and particularly the species b. uniformis were underrepresented in sc tumor site and .when we compared the two types of cancer cac to sc and  bacteria belonging to the pro- teobacteria phylum were more represented in cac compared to sc.

the most represented genera were debaryomyces malasse- zia and unidentified filodasidiaceae for all patients and specifically penicillium in sc table s1.using lefse we compared samples from hs cac and sc subjects at the tumor site or near it but we did not observe significant differences in any comparison.discussionwhile the involvement of the microbiota has been thor- oughly documented in the ibd and sc pathogenesis the data on the contribution of the intestinal microbiota in the cac pathogenesis are scarce.

d data for the basidiomycota phylum individually represented for each patient and expressed as relative otus abundance per each group.analysis clearly showed that sc and cac mucosa- associated microbiota clustered distinctly suggesting a strong link between microbiota and disease and some specificity between sc and cac.

although several significant differences were observed between cancer and healthy mucosa for sconly minor changes were observed for cac suggesting that if the microbiota is involved in cac carcinogenesis the oncogenic microbes are not limited to the cancer site.

f. nucleatum has been shown to promote intestinal tumorigenesis in miceand is even pre- sented as a putative prognosis factor in crc.in parallel patients with inflammatory bowel dis- eases ibd have chronic gut inflammation which is a potent risk factor for colon cancer called in thatcontact pr harry sokolservice de gastroenterologie et nutrition hopital saint-antoine 184 rue du faubourg saint-antoine 75571 paris cedex 12 france.yboth authors contributed equally to this work.supplemental data for this article can be accessed on the .c 2017 taylor  francisparticular case colitis-associated cancer cac.

the biodiversity in sc patients at both tumor and nearby sites is however stable and comparable to the hs.bacterial microbiota compositionas expected the large majority of the bacteria from sc cac and hs samples belonged to the phyla firmicutes bacteroidetes fusobacteria proteobacteria and actino- bacteria .

samples from cac and sc patients exhibit clear differencestable 1. demographic and clinical data of studied population.montreal classification n figure 1. bacterial microbiota biodiversity and composition.

in cac patients a decreasing trend of firmicutes and bacteroidetes was observed with a significant increase of proteobacteria .

no visible changes were observed for minor phyla in cac or sc versus hs patients.differential bacterial compositionwe then compared the bacterial composition between studied groups using lefse linear discriminant analysis effect size.

bradyrhizobiaceae and enterobacter- iaceae were the two families overrepresented in the cac.

