furthermore 71 genera 54 bacteria 3.99 of bacteria in fermented grain atable 1 relative abundances of the bacterial and fungal communities in daqu and environmentbacteriaaall data are presented as mean - standard deviation n2.bthe abundance is significantly different among daqu and environments in workshops a and b. significance is defined at p  0.05 with false discovery rate correction as determined by a one-way anova duncan's test.cnd not detected.and 17 fungi 0.56 of fungi in fermented grain a were exclusive to fermented grain a and 34 genera 6 bacteria 0.05 of bacteria in fermented grain b and 28 fungi 1.09 of fungi in fermented grain b were exclusive to fermented grain b. daqu shared only four and nine genera with fermented grains a and b respectively.

after fermenting for 15 days the bacterial diversity of fermented grain b was higher than that of fermented grain a. moreover the changes in fungal diversity were not obvious in both fermented grains a and b. however the fungal otus and shannon indexes of fermented grain b were higher than those of fermented grain a during fermentation see fig.

during fermentation lactobacillus bacil- lus kroppenstedtia weissella and pantoea were also abundant in the beginning of fermentation day 0 whereas the relative abundance of klebsiella was less than 1. interestingly pseudomonas and acinetobacter were only detected in fermented grain samples and were more abundant in fermented grain b than in fermented grain a. after fermenting for 4 days both fermented grain a and b samples were dominated by lactobacillus 68.89 to 97.72 relative abundance .

otu1349 sphingobacterium was only detected in fermented grain a but five otus otu1487 otu1786 otu2610 otu2624 and otu4058 attached to lactobacillus were more abundant in fermented grain b than in fermented grain a see table s2 in the supplemental material.for fungi pichia saccharomycopsis and aspergillus were abundant in both daqu and fermented grain samples .

further- more pichia wickerhamomyces and aspergillus were more abundant in fermented grain a during fermentation whereas candida and kazachstania were more abundant in fermented grain b. additionally saccharomycopsis and saccharomyces were abun- dant in both fermented grains a and b at the beginning of fermentation but after fermenting for 8 days saccharomyces was more abundant in fermented grain a than in fermented grain b. metastats analysis revealed that 223 fungal otus were significantly different p  0.001 q  0.5 between fermented grains a and b and 24 otus in them were found with over 0.1 average abundance see table s3 in the supplemental material.fig 2 a abundance of microbial communities in daqu and fermented grains.

however for fermented grain b the main environmental source of bacterial communities was unknown .for fungal communities daqu was the main source of both fermented grains a 80.00 and b 61.06 whereas environments contributed 19.93 of fungal com- munities to fermented grain a and 34.61 to fermented grain b. for fermented grain a indoor ground was the main environmental source of fungal communities contrib- uting 6.39 of pichia and 3.72 of wickerhamomyces .

we collected 20 fermented grain samples during fermentation 10 fermented grain a samples and 10fig 1 metabolic profiles during fermentation.

moreover both heat mapping and pca showed that the concentrations of acetic acid lactic acid malic acid and ethyl acetate were higher in fermented grain b than those in fermented grain a but the trend of ethyl lactate was just the opposite  see also table s1 in the supplemental material.

additionally the total content of acids in fermented grain b was higher than that in that in fermented grain a whereas the contents of ethanol volatile alcohols aromatics and esters showed opposite trends see fig.

in fermented grain b the bacterial biomass was significantly higher p  0.05 than that in fermented grain a at 0 to 4 days during fermentation.

nevertheless the fungal biomass in fermented grain b 107.22 gene copiesg samplewas significantly higher than that in fermented grain a 105.63 gene copiesg sample at the end of fermentation see fig.

for fungi there was an average of 45538 reads per sample with a range from 19268 to 86192 reads.during fermentation the microbial alpha diversities were different between fer- mented grains a and b. in fermented grain a the bacterial diversity operational taxonomic unit otu numbers and shannon indexes declined along with fermenta- tion time but in fermented grain b the bacterial diversity tended to fluctuate.

lactobacillus brevis and lactobacillus plantarum were more abundant in fermented grain a at 4 to 8 days of fermentation whereas lactobacillus paralimentarius was more abundant in fermented grain b see fig.

different environments led to higher abundances of candida and kazachstania in fermented grain b. moreover cca revealed that abundant candida and kazachstania were positively correlated with the production of acetic acid lactic acid and malic acid in fermented grain b.sourcetracker analysis highlights the contribution of environmental sources to fermentation.

for bacterial communities results revealed that daqu only contributed 27.39 of bacterial communities to fermented grain a and 9.10 to fermented grain b .

