On the basis of the data it appears as though human milk oligosaccharides HMOs are part of the nonspecific response.22-28 Historically HMOs have been shown to inhibit the growth of a number of viral and bacterial pathogens.24-2729 In the next two sections we will provide brief overviews of the roles of HMOs as prebiotics and antimicrobial agents as both would be of primary interest to this community based on the WHO's priority listing of bacterial pathogens.IMPACT OF THE HUMAN MILK GLYCOBIOME ON SYMBIOTIC BACTERIAShortly after parturition a newborn's microbiome begins to develop as a succession of bacteria colonizes the neonatal gut.

Unfortunately these HMOs represent only a small portion of the human milk glycome which is estimated to contain well-over 200 unique structures.79 It is our hope that the high-level nature of the problem will continue to inspire novel strategies and tactics to produce complex HMOs.7778There exist exciting opportunities for multidisciplinary teams to learn exactly how HMOs confer beneficial effects.80 For example the NIH has established a glycoscience common fund program to develop new methodologies and resources to study glycans.

Excitingly Kaleido has an interest in studying complex oligosaccharides and glycoconjugates in human gut microbiome assays that are designed to reflect healthy and diseased human bowels.At this stage it is important to emphasize that when it comes to clinical impact quality is better than quantity.

Unfortunately due to limited options clinicians are repurposing once abandoned drugs.14 In our search for new scaffolds that may have new modes of action we turned to human milk.HUMAN MILK OLIGOSACCHARIDESWhile breastfeeding has long had its critics it is now widely accepted that nursing has a profoundly positive effect on the short- and long-term health of neonates.15 Under even theCraft and TownsendPage 3harshest of scenarios and even when the mother's own nutrition is compromised human milk provides all vitamins nutrients and macromolecules that are essential to the development of the child.

Glycoprofiling of bifidobacterial consumption of human milk oligosaccharides demonstrates strain specific preferential consumption of small chain glycans secreted in early human lactation.

Utilization of major fucosylated and sialylated human milk oligosaccharides by isolated human gut microbes.

PubMed 20394371Craft and TownsendPage 10Schwab C Ganzle M. Lactic acid bacteria fermentation of human milk oligosaccharide components human milk oligosaccharides and galactooligosaccharides.

It is with this general philosophy in mind that we hypothesized human milk oligosaccharides HMOs could serve as novel chemical scaffolds for antibacterial development.

Additional factors such as mode of delivery cesarean vs vaginal birth and antibiotic use influence the gut flora.3031 While little is known about the mechanisms that connect the variables described here to microbiota composition it is well established that human milk and HMOs are a primary driver of healthy microbiome maturation.Human milk serves as a primary source of continued microbial inoculation as it can contain ca.

Recent work in our laboratory showed HMOs to act as antibiolfilm agents against S. aureus although again a mechanism for this activity has yet to be determined.CHALLENGES AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIESIt was first observed in 1900 that human milk governs the composition of the infant gut flora.

