see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in cell host  microbe  november 2017doi 10.1016j.chom.2017.10.007citations5reads8010 authors includingpublications 270 citationsnational institute of technology rourkelapublications 91 citations13 publications 269 citationsall content following this page was uploaded by on 21 november 2017.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.short articlesegmented filamentous bacteria provoke lung autoimmunity by inducing gut-lung axis th17 cells expressing dual tcrsgraphical abstracthighlightsd gut commensal sfb trigger lung autoimmune pathology in the pre-arthritic phased sfb aggravate lung autoimmunity by inducing th17 cells of the gut-lung axisd sfb do not rely on molecular mimicry or bystander activation to induce th17 cellsd sfb expand th17 cells co-expressing dual tcrs for sfb epitope and self-antigenauthorsc.

each symbol indicates average ankle thickness from both ankles of each mouse n  19group six assays combined.a day 7 post sfb gavage pre-arthritic phase th17th1bday 7 post sfb gavage pre-arthritic phasecfigure 2. sfb induce a robust lung th17 response essential for lung pathologypercentage of il-17 th17 or ifn-g th1 cells in cd4 t cells isolated from sfb- and sfb day 7 post-sfb gavage kbxn mice.

sfb also boosted the th17 response when mice received krn t cells but not rorc--.krn t cells despite their sfb status d. these results suggested that gut microbiota sfb were able to induce sufficient th17 cells to cause ibalt-like pathogenesis.th17 cells of gut-lung axis carry the crosstalk between gut microbiota and lungbased on the common mucosal immune system cmis whereby immune cells activated at one mucosal site home to other mucosal tissues via shared homing receptors   we hypothesized that the mucosal gut- lung axis provides a communication interface allowing sfb to transfer the initial autoimmune signal from the gut to the lung via sfb-induced th17 cells.

thus sfb pro- mote an autoreactive th17 response by preferentially expanding vb6 krn t cells that co-express a second tcr vb14 known to preferentially recognize sfb.to address whether this second tcr vb14 on krn t cells truly recognizes sfb we isolated both tcr vb6vb14 and tcr vb6vb14- populations from sfb kbxn mice and re-stimu- lated them with sfb peptide a6  plus dcs isolated from tcra--.b6 mice.

we previously established a model to study the effect of sfb in autoimmune development by gavag- ing sfb-containing simplified as sfb hereafter feces into sfb negative sfb- mice housed in our specific-pathogen-free an-imal facility .

we found a causative relationship of sfb in triggering lymphocytic infiltration of the lung a. sfb only triggered lung pathology in auto- immune-susceptible animals as sfb did not induce pathology in b6xnod bxn mice the non-arthritic control for kbxn mice a. just as in ra patients lymphocytic infiltration in the lung of kbxn mice is also located in peribronchial and peri-vascular areas b. sfb-triggered lymphocytic infiltra- tions contain both t and b cell zones suggesting an ibalt-likestructure c. next we examined lung anti-gpi auto- ab production.

we also measured the th1 response using the signature th1figure 1. sfb induce ibalt-like structures and auto-abs in the lung of arthritic kbxn micehe staining of lung from sfb- and sfb kbxn or non-arthritic bxn mice n  4group.perivascular black arrow and peribronchial open arrow lung lymphocytic infiltration n  4group.t cd4 and b cell cd19 zone of lymphocyte aggregation n  5-7 micegroup.cytokine ifn-g. sfb did not boost the th1 response a.anti-gpi ascs of igg1 isotype in total kbxn b cells avg  sem from day 14 post-sfb gavage.

sfb were no longersfb vancomycin sfb-ifn-ggated on cd45 tcrb cd4th17th12015105 0figure 3. sfb induce th17 cells of the gut-lung axispercentage of lung and splenic th17 and th1 cells from littermates of sfb kbxn mice treated with vancomycin or left untreated n  8-9group two assays combined.percentage of th17 and th1 cells from th17- or th1-polarized krn t cell cultures before transfer.

studies reported a preferential recruitment of th17 cells to inflamed joints central nervous sys-th17 cells in the sfb intestine and suggest that these cells were later recruited to the lung by ccl20 independent of sfb status.gut microbiota trigger autoimmunity by expanding th17 cells co-expressing microbiota- and self-antigen- specific tcrsth17 cells predominantly use tcr vb14 to recognize sfb pep- tide in b6 mhc class ii h-2b mice .

right data combined from four experiments each experiment contained pooled lung t cells from 6-8 mice 2-4 elispot replicate wellsgroup.number of th17 cells in lung of sfb- and sfb tcra--.bxn recipients transferred with krn or rag--.krn cd4 t cells n  4-9group four assays combined.ankle thickness of sfb- and sfb tcra--.bxn recipients transferred with krn or rag--.krn cd4 t cells from experiments in d are shown.rag--.krn and 7b8 cd4 t cells were mixed at 11 ratio and co-transferred into sfb- or sfb tcra--.bxn recipients.

rather our data suggest that the increase in th17 cells in the lung of sfb compared to sfb- kbxn mice is due to a larger sfb-induced gut th17 cell pool and thus a higher number of gut th17 cells recruited to the lung in sfb mice.at the molecular level we demonstrate that sfb selectively expand autoimmune t cells co-expressing sfb-specific tcrs in addition to their self-reactive tcrs.

for the antibiotic treat- ment the littermates of sfb kbxn mice maintained as an sfb colony by vertical transmission from sfb gavaged moms were treated with 0.5gl vancomycin hospira in drinking water containing sweetener equal 2.5 g300 ml or left untreated starting at 23 days old for 2 weeks.

sfb selectively expand autoimmune dual tcr- expressing th17 cells that sense both sfb peptide and self-antigen.bradley et al.

additionally we found that in peripheral tissues sfb selectively expand dual t cell receptor tcr-expressing th17 cells recognizing both an sfb epitope and self-anti- gen thus augmenting autoimmunity.

however this is an urgent subject as dysbiosis-related diseases have emerged as new epidemics in the industrialized world  .here we test whether a gut commensal sfb can provoke lung autoimmunity and if so what molecular mechanism allows sfb to activate autoimmune t cells.

