until now there have been no clear relationships between type of diet western asian mediterranean and the enrichment in the gut of particular bifidobacterium species but differences have been reported between different human groups and countries  .a recent bifidobacterial diversity study based on se- quence analysis of pcr amplicons of the 16s rrna gene from infant stools from different geographical origins reinforced the notion of bifidobacteria as being a pre- dominant component of the infant gut microbiota which may undoubtedly influence the development of the immune system and physiology of the infant .correlations with other members of the microbiota and cross talk interactions bifidobacterium-mediated health benefits are the result of a complex dynamic interplay established among bifidobacteria other members of the gut microbiota and the human host.

a re- cent study reported an h. pylori eradication rate of 32.5 in adults after 10 days of administration of the commercial mix of probiotic vsl3 which includes several probiotic bifidobacteria as mentioned above .colorectal cancerprobiotics have also been used to modifymodulate the microbiota of patients toward a healthy microbiota in those cases in which alterations of microbiota popula- tions are associated with disease.

further reading on the use of probiotics in ibs and the gut microbiota role can be obtained in the review by distrutti and co- workers .in ibd the probiotic mixture vsl3 which con- tains bifidobacteria of different species was able to re- duce the uc symptoms in adults   as well as the remission of the disease in children .necrotizing enterocolitisregarding prevention of necrotizing enterocolitis nec in newborns bifidobacteria has also been assayed mainly as part of probiotic mixtures.

other works reported on the ability of bifidobacteria to induce fecal microbiota modifications in crc patients  as well as to reduce some cancer risk factors by improving epithelial barrierprobiotics and gut microbiota role in ibsprobiotic benefit in eczema preventionprobiotics and colorectal cancer preventiondensity and iii protection against human pathogens due to host receptor competition and immune mod- ulation capabilities .

although these perturbations affect the gut microbiota and can have negative consequences on host health their de- pendence on environmental factors offers the possibility of modulating gut microbiota composition through various approaches.

rhamnosus hn001it is suitable to improve the efficacy of antibiotic regimens for h. pylori eradication and prevent aad.the use of probiotics can be then considered as an adjuvant therapy for the eradication of h. pylori thanksto i their ability to stimulate mucin production there- fore limiting the adhesion of the pathogen to the gut surface ii production of short-chain fatty acids and other antimicrobial substances that may reduce h. pylori9hidalgo-cantabrana et al.table 2 selection of meta-analyses and reviews about the effect of probiotic products containing bifidobacteria on certain diseasesprobiotics effective in prevention of cdadreducing loads or eradicating h. pyloriprovement of the gut environment by reducing the sec- ondary effects of surgery and chemotherapy notably at the level of the epithelial layer and involving tissue re- generation.

finally for future strain selection it would be desirable to choose appropriate probiotic strains showing promising results in vitro and in vivo and ideally good technological properties in order to scale up the production of future probiotic bifidobacteria at affordable costs.12bifidobacteria and their health-promoting effectsacknowledgmentsresearch in our group is supported by grants agl2015- 64901-r bio2014-55019-jin agl2013-44761-p and agl2013-44039-r from the spanish ministry of economy and competitiveness.referencesgonzalez-rodriguez i gaspar p sanchez b gueimonde m margolles a neves ar.

bifidum group b. bifidum strains and b. adolescentis group bifidobacterium catenulatum bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum and b. adolescentis strains are often found in the human intestinal microbiota and most probiotic bifidobacteria belong to these species.bifidobacteria as members of the human intestinal microbiotabifidobacterium species evolution with age distribution in the bowel and interindividual variabilitybifidobacteria are among the dominant bacterial popu- lations in the gastrointestinal tract git of humans.

because of the10bifidobacteria and their health-promoting effectsadvantages of probiotic consumption several authors have proposed that an oral intake of probiotics should be included as a preoperative and postoperative treat- ment in crc .liver diseaseprobiotics including bifidobacteria have become part of novel therapeutic approaches in hepatology mainly because of their beneficial effect modulating the com- position of the intestinal microbiota a factor that can influence liver disease onset .

moreover zhang and coworkers  showed that the preoperative administration of bifidobacteria in crc patients reduced the postoperative infection complica- tions through a mechanism involving maintenance of the intestinal microbiota populations reduction on the numbers of e. coli and restriction in bacterial translo- cation from the intestine to the bloodstream.chemotherapy treatmentschemotherapy treatments cause diarrhea and alter the normal function of the git perturbing the proportions of populations conforming the intestinal microbiota.

bifidobacteria and their health-promoting effectsclaudio hidalgo-cantabrana susana delgado lorena ruiz patricia ruas-madiedo borja sanchez and abelardo margollesdepartment of microbiology and biochemistry of dairy products dairy research institute of asturias spanish national research council ipla-csic paseo rio linares sn 33300 villaviciosa asturias spainabstract bifidobacteria are members of the intestinal microbiota of mammals and other animals and some strains are able to exert health-promoting effects.

these facts support the use of mixtures of probiotic strains which might provide a synergistic effect improving their capability to exert the4bifidobacteria and their health-promoting effectsdesired effects on the gut microbiota and concomi- tantly on host health .it is also worth highlighting that some bifidobac- terial colonization traits are modulated by intestinal factors including the presence of other microorganisms.

be- cause it is likely that the feces from a healthy person contain between 1 and 4 bifidobacteria it remains to be elucidated whether increasing the number of bifido- bacteria by appropriate donor selection or by targeted enrichment of this population before transplantation could be useful not only in cdad but also in other diseases through fecal microbiota transplantation.helicobacter pylori infectionregarding the use of bifidobacteria to avoid bacterial infections it is worth mentioning their application in in- fections caused by h. pylori a gram-negative bacterium present in the stomach that is responsible for chronic ulceration a pathology that has been linked to the de- velopment of gastric cancer.

gut 53108-114. kajander k myllyluoma e rajilic-stojanovic m kyronpalo s rasmussen m jarvenpaa s zoetendal eg de vos wm vapaatalo h korpela r. 2008. clinical trial multispecies probiotic supplementation alleviates the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome and stabilizes intes- tinal microbiota.

in fact in b. bifidum prl2010 pilus expression occurred in vitro but it was strongly upregulated following co- culture with other bifidobacterial and lactobacillus strains .further evidence of the existence of a bifidobacterial-gut microbiota cross talk has been provided by the fact that individuals with different gut microbiota composi- tion appear to respond differently to bifidobacterium supplementation .

