Results We observed a positive influence on the vaginal microbiota in 711 63 women in the interven- tion group and 411 36 women in the control group.

Premenopausal women women with diarrhea constipation or uri- nary tract infection and those having received previous antibiotic therapy 30 days or any Lactobacillus spp.

In 711 63 women in the intervention group and 411 36 women in the control group the Nugent score indicated a change towards a normal vaginal microbiota i.e.

Nugent score of 0-3.When analyzing the difference between the Nugent score at baseline and after treatment among women in the interventionRegimen10 45.5visit 2 the smears of the women in the control group revealed afrom baseline to the follow-up visits are presented in table 3.

Moreover we successfully tested probiotic capsules containing these species and reported an improvement in the vaginal Lactobacillus micro- biota after oral administration in male-to-female transsexual women 20.In the present study we were able to demonstrate that the geni- tourinary syndrome of menopause and symptomatic vaginal atro- phy are common findings among women with BC undergoing chemotherapy.

Conclusion The orally administered Lactobacillus preparation has the potential to improve the vaginal microbiota in women undergoing chemother- apy for breast cancer.c2017 The Authors.

In premenopausal women estrogen encourages the vaginal colonization with Lactobacillus spp.

In postmen- opausal women the genitourinary syndrome of menopause is as- sociated with a decrease in estrogen secretion leading to a deple- tion of lactobacilli and an increase in vaginal pH followed by colo- nization with enterobacteria.

From the clinical perspective vaginal dryness burning itching and dyspareunia are frequent com- plaints along with dysuria urinary frequency and recurrent in- fections 3 4.As a result of chemotherapy and estrogen deprivation therapy the genitourinary syndrome of menopause is a common finding among women with breast cancer BC.

The syndrome leads to symptomatic vaginal atrophy in both pre- and postmenopausal women accompanied by cytological changes in the vaginal smear 5-7.

