in humans the primary bile acids cholic acid ca and chenodeoxycholic acid cdca table 1 are synthesized from cholesterol in the liver as conjugates and secreted into the duodenum through the bile duct 1. during intestinal transit the majority of bile acids are decon- jugated into fbas by the bile salt hydrolase activity of many intestinal bacteria and are further modified by the indige- nous gut microbes to produce secondary bile acids such as deoxycholic acid dca lithocholic acid lca and oxo- and -hydroxy-type bile acids 2 table 1. in mice and rats in addition to ca and cdca there are two primary bile acids that are not present in humans namely -muricholic acid mca and -mca.

thereafter we conducted a comprehensive study on the toxicity of these fbas using several intestinal bacteria including b. breve jcm 1192t.although the molecular species of bile acids in vertebratesare numerous and complex 14 conjugated bile acids do not exist in the large intestine due to the bile salt hydrolase activity of gut microbes 15. thus we excluded the conju- gated bile acids from our evaluation and concentrated only on the fbas.

1. among the 7-hydroxy-type fbas uca and udca which are common to humans and rodents showed lower ph- dissipating activities than did their 7-hydroxy epimer fbas ca and cdca respectively.effect of fbas on the cell membrane integrity and viability of b. breve jcm 1192t b. coccoides jcm 1395t and b. thetaiotaomicron dsm 2079tfirst based on estimation of the toxicity of each fba by intracellular ph measurements we investigated the membrane integrity and viability of jcm 1192t upon expo- sure to fbas table 2. severe membrane damage and vi- ability loss were observed with 12 of the 14 fbas at theirph-dissipating concentrations dca 0.6 mm cdca 0.6 mm -mca 1.0 mm hdca 1.0 mm 3-oxo-121.0 mm -mca 3.0 mm 12-oxo-lca 2.0 mm ca 6.0-8.0 mm -mca 2.0 mm and -mca 4.0 mm or at their maximum soluble concentrations at which substantial dis- sipation of the ph was observed 7-oxo-lca 1.5 mm udca 2 mm.

58 1143-1152.supplementary key words bile acids and salts  bile acids and salts metabolism  bile acids and saltsphysical chemistry  obesity  deoxy- cholic acid  -muricholic acid  hyodeoxycholic acid  gut microbiotabile salts which are glycine or taurine conjugates of free bile acids fbas play an essential role as detergents in the emulsification of dietary fats and nutrients to facilitate theirdigestion and absorption.

results are shown as mean - sd n  3.microbiota composition in rats 10. the ca feeding in- duced a dramatic decrease in the bacteroidetesfirmicutes ratio which is similar to gut microbiota alterations on a high-fat diet hfd in a mouse model 11. as increased intestinal bile acid flow occurs in response to the adminis- tration of a hfd bile acids with strong antimicrobial activ- ity may exert selective pressure to alter the gut microbiota composition in response to a hfd which we have termed the bile acid hypothesis 11. in sharp contrast it has been reported that low bile acid input into the gut in pa- tients with cirrhosis resulted in increased bacteroidetes firmicutes ratio 12 13. therefore to evaluate the con- tribution of each fba to alteration of the gut microbiotacomposition in both humans and rodents a detailed char- acterization of the bactericidal activities of the diverse fba molecules found in humans and rodents is required.previously in many lactobacilli and bifidobacteria we eval- uated the membrane-damaging effects of fbas such as ca and dca as a growth inhibition mechanism 7. in that study the bactericidal activity of dca which contains two hy- droxy groups was approximately 10-fold higher than that of ca which contains three hydroxy groups.

the chemi- cal structures of the bile acids are shown in table 1. fbas com- monly found in both humans and rodents are classified as common fbas ca uca udca dca cdca 7-oxo-dca 7-oxo-lca 12-oxo-lca and 3-oxo-12 while those specific to rodents are termed rodent fbas -mca -mca -mca -mca and hdca table 1.bacterial strains and culture conditionsb.

however these mechanisms are gen- erally induced during bile adaptation in which exponen- tially growing cells are exposed to a sublethal concentration of fbas 31. in this study we monitored bile acid toxicity by direct attack of each fba to exponentially growing cells of the indicator strains which we call bile shock.

1 table 1 and the actual membrane-damaging effect leading to cell death table 2. in addition the observed coordinated reduc- tions in both membrane integrity and viable cell count led us to conclude that the mechanism underlying the bactericidal activity of fbas in humans and rodents can generally be extended to their damaging effect on bacte- rial cell membranes as reported previously for ca and dca 7.to demonstrate the bactericidal activities of human androdent fbas toward bacteria belonging to the firmicutes and bacteroidetes phyla we investigated the membrane in- tegrity and viability of b. coccoides jcm 1395t and b. thetaio- taomicron dsm 2079t after exposure to rodent fbas as well as ca and dca at the viability loss-inducing concentra- tions determined for b. breve jcm 1192t.

3.in contrast to the common fbas rodent fbas did not show these correlations as the hydrophilic -mca showed the toxicity at a level comparable to that of dca table 2. these results suggest that the bactericidal activities of rodent fbas may be determined not only by their hydrophobic surface but also by the hydrophilic surface of the mol- ecules.

here we investigated the toxicity of 14 typical human and rodent free bile acids fbas by monitor- ing intracellular ph membrane integrity and viability of a human intestinal bacterium bifidobacterium breve japan col- lection of microorganisms jcm 1192t upon exposure to these fbas.

although these functions have been known since early in the last century 5 few fbas have been investigated in detail including the growth inhibition properties of ca dca and 7-oxo- dca against staphylococcus aureus 5 and the bactericidal activities of ca dca and cdca on several intestinal bac- terial strains 6 and many lactobacilli and bifidobacteria 7. recently a growth inhibition assay for 3-dca was conducted against selected intestinal microbes 8. in terms of rodent-specific fbas their bactericidal activities have not been investigated with the exception of one re- port on the inhibition of spore germination and vegetative cell growth of clostridium difficile by - - and -mcas 9. recently we discovered using ca-feeding experiments that bile acids are host factors that regulate the cecalthis work was supported by the institute for fermentation osaka a.y.

2. taking these into consideration one possi- ble explanation for the relatively high bactericidal activities exhibited by rodent fbas is that the highly hydrophilic structure of rodent fba molecules may facilitate forma- tion of the face-to-face dimer more tightly than that in the common fbas due to the increased hydrophilicity of the - faces of the bile acid molecules that face each other.

these bile acids are also transformed into rodent secondary bile acids by the indigenous intestinal microbes -mca from -mca 3 and hyodeoxycholic acid hdca from -mca -mca -mca and -mca 4.in addition to digestive functions some fbas exhibit growth inhibitionbactericidal activities.

and m.w.manuscript received 20 january 2017 and in revised form 3 april 2017. published jlr papers in press april 12 2017.doi abbreviations ca cholic acid cdca chenodeoxycholic acid cfdase carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester cfse carboxy- fluorescein succinimidyl ester dca deoxycholic acid fba free bile acid gam gifu anaerobic medium hdca hyodeoxycholic acid hfd high-fat diet jcm japan collection of microorganisms lca litho- cholic acid mca muricholic acid 3-oxo-12 3-oxo-12-hydroxy-5- cholanoic acid uca ursocholic acid udca ursodeoxycholic acid uplc ultra-performance lc.1 to whom correspondence should be addressed.e-mail copyright c 2017 by the american society for biochemistry and molecular biology inc.this article is available online at journal of lipid research volume 58 20171143table 1. structures ph-dissipating concentrations and uplc retention factors of the fbas evaluateda the bile acids present in both humans and rodents were termed common whereas those present only in rodents were termed rodent in this study.b ph-dissipating diss.

k' uplc retention factor.cdca 7. here we demonstrated that this mechanism can be generalized to the other fbas and bacteria used in this study table 2. intestinal bacteria develop various kinds of resistance mechanisms to counteract membrane damage induced by bile acid attack which include exopolysaccharide production 27 extrusion of bile acids by multidrug re- sistance transporters 28 29 membrane lipid alterations 30 among others.

