these findingsdemonstrate the influence of the gut microbiota on the bioavailability of dietary amino acidsprecursors for a range of essential bioactive metabolites.similarly a 1h nmr spectroscopy-based metabonomic approach was used to characterizethe changes in the urinary metabolic profiles of gnotobiotic rats during 21 days of microbialcolonization nicholls 2003 14. here the acquisition of the gut microbiota was accompaniedby marked changes in the urinary biochemical profile.

in a metabolic profiling study microbial choline metabolismhas also been shown to exacerbate non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld a conditioncaused by choline deficiency in mice dumas 2006 37.the potential for the gut microbiota to influence host drug metabolism has been demonstratedin a human study characterising the metabolic fate of paracetamolacetaminophen clayton2009 38. the metabolic output of the gut microbiota specifically 4-cresol was found toinfluence the phase ii detoxification of this widely used analgesic.

this observation was found inboth a us and taiwanese populations suggesting that this age-associated change in themetabolic functionality of the gut microbiome is independent of diet and cultural influences.this data has particular relevance given the greater use of drug therapy with aging swann2013 39. the influence of the gut microbiota on idiosyncratic drug responses has also beendemonstrated in a rodent study with the hepatotoxin hydrazine swann 2009 40. in thismetabolic profiling study the protective effect of an established microbiome was demonstratedin rats with gnotobiotic animals showing a marked toxic response to a typically sub-toxic dose.these studies demonstrate the potential of using a global metabolic profiling approach tocharacterize the metabolic functionality of the gut microbiota to predict the efficacy and safetyof orally administered xenobiotics.

however there is a dearth of information whichconsiders that the microbes colonising the various niches of the human body may actuallyhave co-evolved with the host and provide essential functions not found in the host's genome.the role of mammalian microbiome is revealed in extremis when animals are reared in asterile environment tlaskalova-hogenova 2014 41marcobal 2013 42 and thus do notdevelop in the presence of a microbiota.

metabolic profiling approaches are increasingly used to studymetabolic function of the gut microbiota.

statistically and biologically validated output from metabolic profiling mayeventually be applied to further mechanistic investigation and clinical diagnosis andtherapeutic decision making.examples of using metabolic profiling to study gut microbial functionalitythe advancement of systems biology techniques in particular metabolic profilingmetabolomicsmetabonomics and mathematical modelling approaches has expanded theresolution at which we can study the metabolic contribution of the gut microbiota and theirinteraction with host biochemistry.

this property is ideal forstudying the gut microbiota due to it's mega-variate host-specific nature and our relativelylimited understanding.

instead metabolic profiling is a hypothesis generating top-downapproach that can illuminate linkages between the gut microbiota and host metabolicpathways for further evaluation.coupling these data-rich techniques with gnotobiotic aka germ-free or sterile and antibiotic-treated animal models has allowed these biochemical associations to be elucidated and theirrelevance to health and disease to be studied.

pair-wise comparisons of the plasma metabolicphenotypes between gnotobiotic and conventionalized mice using an lc-ms and gc-ms-based approach highlighted the influential role of the gut microbiota on circulating amino acidsand organic acids wikoff 2009 13. differences were observed in the plasma levels ofbioactive indole-containing metabolites derived from tryptophan such as indoxyl sulphate andindole-3-propionic acid.

the absence of these metabolites in the gnotobiotic animals coupledwith their greater abundance of tryptophan indicates that this tryptophan metabolism isdependent upon the gut microbiota.

theseobservations indicate the intimate biochemical relationship between the gut microbiota andhost and how the host metabolic phenotype is shaped with the development of the gutmicrobiota.antibiotic-treated animal models offer another tool for investigating microbial-host interactions.gnotobiotic animals differ phenotypically from conventional animals raised in the presence ofbacteria.

administering antibiotics to conventionallyraised animals allows the influence of the gut microbiota on host biochemistry to be studiedwhilst preserving the conventional phenotype.

in this study antibiotic-inducedsuppression of the intestinal microbiota reduced the urinary excretion of hippuratephenylpropionic acid phenylacetylglycine indoxyl-sulphate trimethylamine-n-oxide tmaoand the short chain fatty acid scfa acetate.

targeted profiling ofthe bile acid signature enables a detailed overview of the enterohepatic circulation to begained and the influence of the gut microbiota to be studied sarafian 2015 8. thecirculating and hepatic bile acid pool contains more than 30 known bile acids and the gutmicrobiota is responsible for driving the majority of this diversity garcia-canaveras 2012 22.primary bile acids cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid are synthesized in the liver fromcholesterol and are conjugated with either taurine or glycine before secretion into the bile.upon ingestion of a meal bile acids stored in the gall bladder are expelled from the gall bladderinto the small intestine and although the majority are actively absorbed in the small intestinea minor amount 1-5 200-800 mg daily in humans reaches the colon.

it is here that bileacids are modified by the resident microbiota.

