bile acids control gut bacteria overgrowth and protect against in- flammation while the gut microbiota plays a role in biotransformation of bile acids and affects bile acid composition and metabolism via farnesoid x receptor and g protein-coupled membrane re- ceptor 5 signaling in the liver.figure 3. effects of roux-en-y gastric bypass surgery on the gut microbiota and its metabolic out comes.

neither intestinal sequestration of bile acids nor common bile duct ligation modulate the expression and function of the rat ileal bile acid transporter.

ba synthesis from cholesterol can occur via two pathways the classical pathway which oc- curs in hepatocytes and is known as the neutral route and the alternative pathway which occurs in the gut.21 the classical pathway mediates synthesis of primary ba and represents more than 90 of ba synthesis which is why it is considered the main route of ba synthesis.22 the alter- native way is responsible for synthesis of secondary bafigure 1. bile acid synthesis and enterohe- patic circulation.

the human bile acid ba pool consists of approximately 3 g of ba.

conjugated ba are secreted across the canalic- ular membrane into the bile and stored in the gall bladder.

they analyzed 5088 bacte- rial 16s rrna gene sequences from the distal intestinal microbiota of genetically obese obob mice lean ob and wild-type siblings and their ob mothers all fed with afigure 2. bidirectional interactions between bile acid synthesis and gut microbiota.

the rela- tionship between bile acids and the gut microbio- ta is close and complementary.

consequently there is a lack of evidence for this link in humans which makes it clear that further studies are necessary to identify new therapeutic targets for main- taining human intestinal health.abbreviationsba bile acids.fxr farnesoid x receptor.glp-1 glucagon-like peptide 1.gm gut microbiota.ibd inflammatory bowel disease.meh microsomal epoxide hydroxide.oatp organic anion transporter.pyy peptide yy.rygb roux-en-y gastric bypass.tgr5 g protein-coupled membrane receptor 5.referencesqin j li r raes ja arumugam m burgdorf ks manichanh c nielsen t et al.a human gut microbial gene catalogue es- tablished by metagenomic sequencing.

bile acids and the gut microbiome.

nature 2012 486 222-7.chavez-talavera o tailleux a lefebvre p staels b. bile acid control of metabolism and inflammation in obesity type2 diabetes dyslipidemia and non-alcoholic fatty liver dis- ease.

plan ar bile acids in health and disease.

biochim biophys acta 2017 11 2269-76.begley m sleator rd gahan cg hill c. c111ontribution of three bile-associated loci bsh pva and btlb to gastrointesti- nal persistence and bile tolerance of listeria monocy- togenes.

interactions between gut bacteria and bile in health and disease.

the enzymes regulation and genetics of bile acid synthesis.

hepatology 1998 28 1081-7.axelson m aly a sjovall j. levels of 7 alpha-hydroxy-4- cholesten-3-one in plasma reflect rates of bile acid synthe- sis in man.

