surface swab of the tonsils is now being questioned as a reliable method of pathogen identification.10 tonsillar core gives a better yield of anaerobic specimen which in turn can be used to study and treat bacteremia in post-tonsillectomy cases as well as prevent a case of recurrent tonsillitis to progress to tonsillectomy.11core samples of normal tonsils have shown not to harbour any bacteria as tonsils removed for any conditions other than recurrent tonsillitis have shown no growth of bacteria on cultures.12 having positive identification of pathogenic microflora from core samples it can help identify diseased cases and microbial count can help identify cases requiring tonsillectomy.13 having established that tonsillar microflora is truly represented by the core specimen14 the question remains to find a method to extract this core flora which is both reproducible and reliable.15 scottish intercollegiate guidelines in 2010 guidelines have stated that surface swab is a poor representative of tonsillar core flora and cannot form a basis of prescribing antibiotics for24journal of the college of physicians and surgeons pakistan 2017 vol.

chi-square test showed this difference to be significant p-value 0.001.conclusion tonsillar aspiration gave a much more realistic picture of the tonsillar core flora as compared to surface swabs.key words core flora.

surface swabs are no more recommended according to national health service nhs guidelines.1the objective of the study was to determine the best method of identifying core tonsillar flora.methodologythe study was designed to detect the common pathogens in core sample of tonsil with the correlation that the same flora be isolated from surface swab and aspiration of the tonsil.

using chi-square test it was found that tonsillar aspiration gave a much more realistic picture of the tonsillar core flora as compared to surface swabs p 0.001.address p  present a  absenttable ii frequencies of aspirates compared with core flora.chi-square test is applieddiscussiontonsillitis has been reported since the time of celcus in the first century and as a consequence tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy remains one of the most commonly performed surgeries in the pediatrics group.

27 1 23-25tonsillar floratreatment of tosillitis.16 the current antibacterial therapy being adopted for recurrent tonsillitis comprises of penicillin group of antibiotics.17 the anti-microbial spectrum of penicillins does not cover anaerobes whereas anaerobes have been reported in up to 70 of tonsillar core flora specimens.18 tonsillar aspirations provide a reliable method to identify core flora.

original articletonsillar surface micro floradoes it truly represent pathological tonsillar florasyed nadeem ul haq1 zeeshan ayub2 and azeema ahmed3abstractobjective to determine the best method of identifying core tonsillar flora.study design quasi-experimental study.place and duration of study ent department combined military hospital lahore from september 2013 to october 2015. methodology eighty-seven patients of recurrent tonsillitis undergoing tonsillectomy were included.

following tonsillectomy the tonsils were sent for culture of core flora.

flora of 12 13.8 surface swabs and 68 78.2 tonsillar aspirates matched the flora cultured from core of the tonsils.

the surface flora may not be the true representative of tonsillar core flora.

despite the overwhelming evidence of involvement of gabhs in the disease process of tonsillitis an asymptomatic carrier rate up to 40 has been mentioned for gabhs in the literature.6 findings like this compel researchers to dwell on the fact that flora isolated from the tonsillar surface may not be the true representative pathogen.furthermore bacterial flora within the tonsillar crypts and core of tonsil appear more likely to be causing the infections.

upon removal of both tonsils they were placed in normal saline and transported to the laboratory along with surface swab and 5cc syringe containing tonsillar core aspirate.

all the patients were advised soft diet for 10 days postoperatively.the tonsils were cut and swabs were taken from the tonsillar core.

the most prevalent anaerobic bacteria were peptostreptococcus propioni- bacterium bacteroides and fusobacterium species.surface swabs of 87 patients were compared with tonsillar core microflora and only 12 13.8 specimens of patients were found to have matched.

whereas 68 78.2 aspiration samples matched with tonsillar core microflora table ii.

in outpatient departments it can easily be done by an otorhinolaryngologist using a 5cc syringe and topical anesthesia in spray bottles much like fine needle aspiration cytology.conclusionidentification of tonsillar core flora is of paramount importance in selection of appropriate treatment modality.

