two days after administration the l. plantarum b35-gfp was present throughout the honey bee digestive tract with 104-105 cfubee with highest count observed for aerosol application.keywords lactobacillus plantarum green fluorescent protein honey bee digestive tract monitoringintroductionthe lactic acid bacteria are symbiotic bacteria that naturally reside in the gastrointestinal tract of many animals including honey bee.

the lyophilised l. plantarum b35 gfp marked strain was used for inoculating the honey bees by different routes as a model for monitoring the establishment of the strain in bee digestive tract in vivo.materials and methodsbacteria plasmid and mediastrain b35 of l. plantarum was originally isolated from the honey bee digestive tract and identified by analysis of protein profiles by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionisation-time of flight maldi-tof mass spectroscopy ms using a maldi microflextm instrument bruker daltonics bremen germany in our institute.

box 220the netherlands tel 31 317 476516fax 31 317 453417for questions related to paper submission for questions related to orders claims and back volumes beneficial microbes 2017 82 143-149wageningen academic p u b l i s h e r sestablishment of lactobacillus plantarum strain in honey bee digestive tract monitored using gfp fluorescencejavorsky1 l. kolesar fecskeova1 l. hrehova2 r. sabo3 j. legath3 and p. pristas121institute of animal physiology slovak academy of science soltesovej 4-6 040 01 kosice slovakia 2institute of biology and ecology faculty of science pavol jozef safarik university srobarova 2 041 80 kosice slovakia 3department of pharmacy pharmacology and toxicology university of veterinary medicine komenskeho 73 041 81 kosice slovakia received 16 february 2016  accepted 10 september 2016c 2016 wageningen academic publishersabstractresearch articlelactic acid bacteria are symbiotic bacteria that naturally reside in the gastrointestinal tract of honey bees.

poppinga and genersch 2011 described the first protocol for the expression of gfp in p. larvae by using the plasmid pad43-35 for their utilisation in the bee environment.in our experiments strain l. plantarum b35 isolated from the digestive tracts of bees was marked using the pad43- 35 plasmid encoding the gfpmut3a variant and cat gene as markers.

the feeder was removed from the cage after two h and replaced with another one containing a 50 sucrose solution in water provided ad libitum.the bees in the second trial were anaesthetised with carbon dioxide in every cage separately and were afterwards collectively treated by aerosol application of lyophilised bacteria on the dorsal side of the thorax of each bee.

the shp intake was determined from the weight loss of shp.honey bee intestinal tract sampling48 h after l. plantarum b35-gfp administration experimental bees were anaesthetised with ether and the whole intestinal tracts expect oesophagus were collected.

using cultivation on mrs plate supplemented by 5 mgml chloramphenicol on average 1.9x105 l. plantarum b35-gfp cells per bee were detected.in the second trials the honey bees were sprayed with 120 ul of l. plantarum b35-gfp 2.4x108 cfu suspension in water.

after 48 h the honey bees were treated as above and on average 2.2x105 l. plantarum b35-gfp cells per bee were detected.

the use of lactobacillus species has been found to enhance the immunity of honey bees helping them to survive the effects of pathogens and bring advantageous properties for honey bee health asama et al.

the aerosol spray method tested here could be used not only for distributing potential probiotic bacteria to bees but also for dispersing the emulsions containing the natural antimicrobial substances effective against potential bee pathogens into the beehive body.acknowledgementsthis work was supported by grant no.

next day the bacterial samples were freeze-dried overnight in a freeze-dryer unicryo mc2l munich germany at a pressure of 20 pa. the lyophilised bacterial samples were stored at 4 degc in the dark.the bees and experimental designthe summer adult bees were collected from two beehives at veterinary university in kosice east slovakia.

the collected bees were randomly allocated to test cages ten bees per cage three cages per experimental or control trial.

the bees were held in the dark in an experimental room at a temperature of 25-2 degc and relative humidity of 60. the bees were starved for up to 2 h before the initiation of the tests.

three different ways of lyophilised bacteria administration were tested feeding the liquid suspension of lyophilised bacteria in a feeder spraying this suspension on the bees and feeding the bees with the sugar honey paste containing the lyophilised bacteria.

in control experiments we found that lyophilisation and subsequent revitalisation of the l. plantarum b35-gfpdid not influence the stability of pad43-25 plasmid and gfp expression data not shown.to introduce l. plantarum b35-gfp in honey bees the laboratory method for honey bees acute oral toxicity test oecd 1998 was used.

