256INVESTIGATIVE REPORTTemporal Stability of the Healthy Human Skin Microbiome Following Dead Sea ClimatotherapyMichael BRANDWEIN12 Garold FUKS34 Avigail ISRAEL2 Ashraf AL-ASHHAB2 Deborah NEJMAN7 Ravid STRAUSSMAN7 Emmilia HODAK5 Marco HARARI26 Doron STEINBERG1 Zvi BENTWICH2 Noam SHENTAL3 and Shiri MESHNER21Biofilm Research Laboratory Institute of Dental Sciences Faculty of Dental Medicine The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Jerusalem 2The Cutaneous Microbiology Laboratory The Skin Research Institute The Dead Sea and Arava Science Center Masada 3Department of Mathematics and Computer Science The Open University of Israel Raanana 4Department of Physics of Complex Systems and 7Department of Molecular Cell Biology Weizmann Institute of Science Rehovot 5Department of Dermatology Rabin Medical Center Beilinson Hospital Petach Tikva and 6DMZ Medical Center M. P. Dead Sea Ein Bokek IsraelThese authors contributed equally to this work.Dead Sea climatotherapy DSC is a therapeutic moda- lity for a variety of chronic skin conditions yet there has been scarce research on the relationship between the cutaneous microbiota and disease states in re- sponse to DSC.

However the molecular mechanisms by which Malassezia shift from commensal residents of the skin to patho- gens are poorly understood and therefore Malassezia outgrowth following DSC absent detrimental clinical presentations can indicate a restorative property of DSC on the healthy skin mycobiota.

The results indicate that the healthy hu- man skin microbiome remains undisturbed following DSC including the prominent genera Staphylococcus Propionibacterium and others while skin fungal com- munities become less diverse as a result of Malassezia outgrowth during DSC.

We characterized the skin bacterial and fungal microbiome of healthy volunteers who un- derwent DSC.

The results indicate that the microbiome remains stable throughout DSC while the mycobiome undergoes dramatic community changes.

To the best of our knowledge neither method has been used robustly to explore the connection between skin disease states and the mycobiome.Dead Sea climatotherapy DSC or the combined effect of milder ultraviolet A UVA and ultraviolet B UVB radiation Dead Sea baths atmospheric bromide and magnesium and relaxation has been shown to be an effective treatment for several skin diseases 15.

Benefits of DSC over alternative treatment methods include longer remission periods rare side-effects and psychological improvement 16-18.

In addition DSC can be a more economic treatment method than expensive biologicals 17 19.

20 showed that the main therapeutic element of DSC is sun exposure with Dead Sea water baths potentially enhancing the ef- fects of the sun.

We hypothesized that clinical improvements in patients undergoing DSC are accompanied by microbial community shifts similar to those observed with other treatment methods.

