the mode of action linked with the effect ea and uros exert on a panel of malignant cell lines includes the induction of cdkn1a gene which blocks the cell cycle and conse- quently inhibits cell growth gonzalez-sarrias et al.. in caco-2 cells this cdkn1 up-regulation wasfigure 2. cell vitality after supplemetnation with individual uro.

.the health effects attributed to uro are numerous and diverse ranging from antimalarial properties tocontact milica popovicdepartment of biochemistry faculty of chemistry university of belgrade studentski trg 12-16 11000 belgrade serbiac 2017 informa uk limited trading as taylor  francis grouptable 1. cell treatment experimental conditions.uro-a th uro-c th uro-d30 lm th 30 lm th 30 lmuro-b th uro-c th uro-d30 lm th 30 lm th 30 lmuro-a th uro-b th uro-c th uro-d30 lm th 30 lm th 30 lm th 30 lmusing caco-2 cell line human adenocarcinoma cell line as a model system.figure 1. chemical structure of ellagic acid metabolitesurolithin-a uro-a 38-dihydroxy-6hbenzocchromen-6-oneurolithin-b uro-b 3-hydroxy-6h-benzocchromen-6-oneurolithin-c uro-c 389-trihydroxybenzocchromen-6-oneurolithin-d uro-d 3489-tetrahydroxybenzocchromen-6- one.quenchers of bacterial quorum sensing espin et al.

all the other chemicals used in the experiments were of analytical or cell culture grade and used without further purification.cell culturethe human colon cancer cell line caco-2 was obtained from the american type culture collection atcc rockville md usa.

they have been linked to modulation of the multiple cellular processes that moderate the homeostasis between cell survival and cell death surh  jafari et al.

this suggested that the chemoprotective effect of uro is based more on cell cycle arrest and modulation of gene expression rather that direct cytotoxicity gonzalez-sarrias et al.. furthermore uro a and its isomer isouro a have been linked with cell cycle arrest in caco-2 cells at s and g2m phase and induction of apoptosis gonzalez-sarrias et al.

.it is a known fact that reactive oxygen species playa significant role in carcinogenesis by damaging dna and promoting mutagenesis lipid and protein oxida- tion and modulation of cell signalling perse .

cell were grown in dulbecco's modified minimal essential medium dmem- glutamax supplemented with 10 vv heat inactivated foetal bovine serum 100 u ml-1 penicillin and 100 lg ml-1 streptomycin gibco thermo-fisher scientific barcelona spain at 37 oc under a 5 co2 95 air atmosphere at constant humidity.

cell culture flask t25 nunc rosklide denmark was seeded with 1 104 cells cm-2 and cells were grown until 80 confluence was reached.

trypan blue dye exclusion test was used to assess the cell viability before immedi- ate stimulation experiments strober .determination of intracellular reactive oxygen speciesthe level of intracellular reactive oxygen species was assessed by measuring the oxidation of the probe 2070-dichlorofluorescin diacetate dcfh-da molecular probes life sciences eugene or usa according to the method of cathcart et al.

cell pellet was lysed with a specific ice-cold lysis buffer 50 mm tris ph 7.5 with 150 mm nacl 1 np-40 serva heidelberg germany 2 mm edta and protease inhibitor cock- tail sigma aldrich manheim germany.

cell lysates were centrifuged at 10000g for 15 min at 4 oc before enzyme activity was measured.

a sig- nificance level of p s .05 was used for analysis of vari- ance implemented using the kruskal-wallis test followed by the tukey's post-hoc test p s .05. correlation between different parameters was per- formed at significance level of p s .05.results and discussioneffects of uro on cell growthmultifactorial aetiology of cancer can include diet environmental andor genetic influences.

deleterious effects of rosrns exert includei dna damage ii alteration in cell signalling pathways pla ask 1 mapk ap-1 nfjb andiii modulation of gene expression proto-oncogene tumour suppressor gene.

cytotoxic effect of uros on cells was measured by assessing the leakage of ldh into cell culture supernatant.

previous reports have found that ea inhibits growth of colon cancer cell at concentrations below 100 lm seeram et al.

