the high occurrence of these food adulterants among the farm products suggests that implementation of sanitary measures at that level might reduce the risk of human exposure.keywords food adulterants e. coli o157h7 epidemiology gastroenteritis foodborne illness mlst food chainintroductionhe global burden of foodborne illness remains poorly defined and the world health organization who es- timated that over 2.2 million people worldwide die annually from foodborne and waterborne diarrheal diseases tritscher et al.

qatar's population continues to grow expected to swell by 4.0 between 2012 and 2017 qatar's food consumption is projected to rise by 5.01college of veterinary medicine cornell university ithaca new york.2department of veterinary and biomedical sciences south dakota state university brookings south dakota.3hamad medical corporation doha qatar.4weill cornell medicine-qatar doha qatar.318anonymous 2013. this increase is the highest of any gulf cooperation council state anonymous 2013. this rapid increase in consumption should bring increased interest in food safety research and policy.when parsing out the causative factors of the global bur- den of foodborne illness strains of enterohemorrhagic es- cherichia coli ehec are notable for causing particularly serious bouts of foodborne illness hoffmann et al.

2017. therefore a reasonable approach to mitigate the associated risk of infection with these pathogens is to mini- mize contamination of the food supply chain and prevent exposure of food-producing animals and humans.therefore investigating the threats of these pathogens to the food supply system would provide useful information thatcould be used to mitigate their potential risk duffy et al.

to develop a better appreciation of the complexity of the system it is im- portant to identify these factors that play a role in the survival and transmission of these pathogens in the food supply chain.conclusionthere was significant diversity among e. coli o157h7 and food adulterant non-o157h7 isolates along the food supply chain of animal origin and from patients the trans- mission of these pathogens from the source to humans is not hierarchal.

2009. qatar also imports almost 90 of its food and food-producing animals from different countries  moghazy et al.

1999. animal water supplies may also be contaminated by biofilmtable 5. comparison of genetic distance between enterohemorrhagic escherichia coli isolatesfrom consecutive sampling sources downstream the food supply chainretail-human0.6960.170nsbuild-up on drinking troughs lejeune et al.

2001. ehec samples also easily survive the stress of food processing conditions palumbo et al.

we investigated the genetic relatedness among shiga toxin-producing e. coli stec isolated along the animal food supply chain and from humans diagnosed with gastroenteritis in qatar.methods samples were collected from different sources along the food supply chain and from patients admitted to the hospital with complaints of gastroenteritis.

all the selected samples for se- quencing were screened for the six food adulterants of non- o157 e. coli table 2. while all the farm samples belonged to one of the six serogroups only 7 6 and 13 isolates from other sources slaughterhouse retail and humans re- spectively were identified to belong to one of these non- o157 food adulterant serogroups.

2012. these pathogenic infections are also increasing with a 15 rise in ehec cases among european countries between 2000 and 2004 gil et al.

2004. the ehec pathotype can be defined as the following possessing the eae gene with stx1 gene stx2 gene or both bletz et al.

2013 kotloff et al.

2013. the eae gene codes for intimin adherence protein and is required for intimate attachment to epithelial cells  jerse et al.

1990. the stx1 and stx2 genes both code for shiga-like toxin an enterotoxin that inhibits the eukaryotic 60s ribosomal subunit and prevents protein translation o'loughlin and robins-browne 2001. the most commonly studied serotype of ehec is o157h7 responsible for several foodborne illness outbreaks including a high-profile 1993 u.s. outbreak kotl- off et al.

2013. however non-o157h7 ehec serogroups have been reported and these bacteria are capable of causing severe diarrheal disease shen et al.

