the release of psa in omvs induces immune-modu- latory effects activates regulatory t cells and prevents from experimental colitis.however a general role for omvs in mediating immune responses account- ing for all omv-producing commensal was not yet demonstrated.findings using live b. vulgatus mpk cells indicate that this symbiotic bacterium prevents from disease induction in different mouse models for experimental colitis.in this context b. vulgatus mpk promotes the maintenance of the immune equilibrium via induction of tolerant semi-mature dendritic cells in the intestine and the resulting regulation of host cathepsin s activity and secretion in these antigen- presenting cells.in this study we demonstrated that omvs derived from b. vulgatus mpk contribute to these observed effects since they interact with bone marrow derived dendritic cells leading to a semi- mature phenotype characterized by a low expression of t cell activation and maturation markers as well as pro-inflammatory cytokines.innate immune cells recognize conserved microbial ligands through pattern recognition receptors prrs leading to immunologic responses.

1 1-12research paperreportouter membrane vesicles blebbing contributes to b. vulgatus mpk-mediated immune response silencingjan kevin maerz alex steimle anna lange annika bender birgit fehrenbacher and julia-stefanie frickainstitute of medical microbiology and hygiene university of teurubingen teurubingen germany buniversity department of dermatologyuniversity of teurubingen teurubingen germanyarticle historyreceived 21 april 2017 revised 8 june 2017 accepted 15 june 2017keywordsbacteroides vulgatus dendritic cells immune response outer membrane vesiclesintroductionthe intestinal microbiota provides important features which are considered to be beneficial for the host organism such as 1 the maintenance of the struc- tural integrity of the intestinal mucosal barrier 2 the development of epithelial cell function 3 host nutri- ent metabolism 4 modulation of the immune system and 5 prevention of bacterial overgrowth.hereby a certain microbial diversity is considered to be required for the maintenance of the immune homeo- stasis and crucial for the optimal functionality and interaction with the host.

based on this cross talk specific modulation of the intestinal microbiota composition is considered to be used as therapy for the treatment of microbiota-associated aid.hereby intestinal commensals are decisive for the induction pathobionts or prevention symbionts of a pathological immune response in a certain pre- disposed host.in this context members of the genus bacteroides were already demonstrated to exhibit sym- biotic properties concerning the modulation of the intestinal immune system.contact prof. dr. julia-stefanie frickinstitute of medical microbiology and hygiene university of teurubingen elfriede-aulhorn-str.6 d-72076 teurubingen germany.c 2018 taylor  francisaccordingly bacteroides vulgatus mpk was already depicted to mediate inflammation-silencing effects finally preventing from colitis induction in various moue models for ibd.these immune regulatory properties of b. vulgatus mpk are traced back to the induction of a tolerant dendritic cell dc phenotype in the colonic lamina propria clp termed semi- mature.

glycosyltransferases and polysac- charide export outer membrane proteins indicating the presence of a tlr2-interacting polysaccharide on the outer membrane of the bacterium cell and on vesicles derived from b. vulgatus mpk.but the com- parison of the various loci in b. fragilis and b. vulgatus revealed different arrangements of the genes necessary for the biosynthesis of capsular polysaccharides data not shown.

there- fore b. vulgatus mpk-caused omv blebbing seems to contribute to host-microbe communication at intesti- nal sites which are hardly accessible for the living bacterium.resultsbacteroides vulgatus mpk outer membrane vesicles induce tolerance in cd11cc cellsit is well known that components of the intestinal microbiota have widespread effects on the mucosal immune system in the intestine.hereby commen- sal bacteria exhibit important functions for the prim- ing of immune cells underlying the mucosal epithelial barrier.

vulga- tus mpk was already demonstrated to induce cd11cc cell semi-maturation as indicated by intermediate expression of mhc-ii cd40 cd80 and cd86 which was significantly lower compared with the expression of these respective surface proteins of mature cd11cc bmdcs.we could demonstrate that omvbv pro- vide the same properties like live b. vulgatus mpk when used at a concentration of 50 ng ml1 since we could not detect any difference in the expression of mhc-ii cd40 cd80 and cd86 between cd11cc cells stimulated with either omvbv or live b. vulgatus mpk respectively .

we could verify that a tlr2-depen- dent signaling is necessary for tolerance induction in bmdcs since tlr2 failed to become tolerant upon priming with b. vulgatus mpk or omvbv as demon- strated by the high expression of mhc class ii and the enhanced secretion of tnfa upon e. coli mpk chal- lenge .discussionin this study we demonstrated that the gram negative symbiotic commensal b. vulgatus mpk produces outer membrane vesicles omv.

c mhc class iihic or cd40 population cd11cc normalized to mock and secreted concentration of tnf or il-6 of wt and tlr-deficient bmdcs that were primed with pbs mock b. vulgatus mpk different concentrations of omvbv or e. coli mpk for 24 h n 4. d experimental setting for investigation of dendritic cell tolerance after induction of semi-maturation in tlr2 dcs.bmdcs are primed for 24 h with either pbs mock to preserve an immature phenotype b. vulgatus or omvbv to induce semi-maturation or e. coli to induce bmdc maturation.

the rapid internalization of vesicles can be achieved in an actin-dependent manner directing the expression of surface markers and inflammatory cyto- kine secretion in bmdcs.omvbv-mediated immunomodulatory properties are sensed via host tlr2 and tlr4 receptor complexeswe demonstrated that b. vulgatus mpk and its outer membrane vesicles interact with innate immune cells and modulate the host immune system in an anti- inflammatory sense.

this implicates that polysaccharides present in b. vulgatus mpk has a different structure as compared with the capsular polysaccharide produce by b. fragilis.the presence of a tlr4- and tlr2- ligand on the outer membrane indicates that the mechanism by which omvbv induce tolerance in dcs is not origi- nated in classical endotoxin tolerance.

due to these properties omvbv might even rep- resent a potential therapeutical tool to hamper or recover from inflammatory bowel diseases ibd and other systemic inflammatory disorders.materials and methodscultivation of bone marrow derived dendritic cells bmdcsbone marrow cells were isolated and cultivated for differentiation as described previously.at day 7 after isolation resulting cd11c positive bone marrow derived dendritic cells bmdcs were harvested and used for stimulation.cultivation of human embryonic kidney cells hek cellsbefore stimulation cryoconserved cell stocks were thawed and cultured in dmem media supplemented with 10 fcs 1 penicillinstreptomycin up to passage 7.stimulation of bone marrow derived dendritic cellstwo ps 106 bmdcs were stimulated with either pbs or b. vulgatus mpk or e. coli mpk at a moi of 1 or various concentrations of b. vulgatus-derived omvs 5 50 500 5000 ng ml1.

additionally exogenous tgf sigma-aldrich 20 ng ml1 and prostaglandin e sigma-aldrich 1 mm were used as positive and toll-like receptor- independent control.stimulation of human embryonic kidney cellstwo ps 104 hek cells were stimulated with either pbs or b. vulgatus mpk or e. coli mpk at a moi of 1 or var- ious concentrations of b. vulgatus-derived omvs 5 50 500 ng ml1.

this is mainly mediated by the induction of tolerant cd11cc cells in the colonic lamina propria which seem to be responsible for the maintenance of homeostatic condi- tions in the intestine.several molecular mecha- nisms for tolerance induction have already been identified in cd11cc bone marrow derived dendritic cells bmdcs.until now not all immune system- modulating surface structures of b. vulgatus mpk were already identified.

to gain information on the immune system modulat- ing features of omvs cd11cc bmdcs were gener- ated as described and stimulated with b. vulgatus mpk-derived omvs omvbv for 24 h .

and hickey et al.this feature indi- cates an additional mechanism how b. vulgatus mpk as a symbiotic commensal modulates the immune system at mucosal interfaces.

