this review also discusses the opportunity of herbs with potent activities but low oral bioavail- ability conundrum for prevention and therapy for obesity and related cardiovascular disease.keywords obesity cardiovascular disease gut microbiota oral availability conundrum gut microbiota-herb interactions microbiota availability.introductioncardiovascular disease a vexing global health problem still remains the primary cause of death worldwide according to the world health organization who and american heart associa- tion statistics 1. obesity is becoming recognized as one of the most critical contributing risk factors for cardiovascular disease 2.in january of 2015 who updated some information about overweight and obesity including 1 the worldwide prevalence of obesity more than doubled between 1980 and 2014 2 39 of adults aged 18 years and over 38 of men and 40 of women were overweight and about 13 of the world's adult population 11 of men and 15 of women were obese in 2014 3 42 mil- lion children under the age of 5 were overweight or obese in 20134 most of the world's population lives in countries where over- weight and obesity kills more people than underweight http the increased prevalence of obesity has become a worldwide health concern and the whole societies are burdened by those obesity-associated chronic disorders including cardiovascular disease and negative effects on quality of life.

consistently the microbiota of westerners is signifi- cantly reduced in comparison to rural individuals living a similar lifestyle to paleolithic forefathers but also to that of other free- living primates such as the chimpanzee 110. so lack of proper nutrition for microbiota is a major factor under-pinning dysfunc- tional microbiota dysbiosis chronically elevated inflammation and the production and leakage of endotoxins through the various tissue barriers 110. therefore unabsorbed herbal constituents passing through the gastrointestinal tract could provide critical nutrition and energy for gut microbiota meanwhile absorbable substrates proc- essed by microbiota could also occur for the host.

these differences were related to the dietary patterns 39. a reduced bacterial diversity and altered representation of bacterial genes are also considered as a contributing factor for influencing metabolic pathways which are likely involved in obesity 40.interestingly the gut microbiota phenotype of obesity can be transmissible simply by transplanting fecal microbiota from the obese donors into healthy lean ones.

favoring the abundance of beneficial bacteria restricting the growth of pathogenic populations and reshaping the microbiota structure by herbs have potential positive effects on anti- obesity therapy.animal studiessome studies indicate that obesity is closely linked with chronic low-grade inflammation and gut dysbiosis which can lead to cardiovascular diseases insulin resistance type 2 diabetes and so on 42. gut dysbiosis such as increased fb ratio in obese ani- mals and humans impairs intestinal barrier integrity and promotes the inflammation progression 43. increasing studies focus on modulating the gut microbiota composition improving intestinal tight junction integrity and decreasing blood endotoxin with widely used herbs fig.

furthermore its anti-obesity and microbiota-modulating effects are transmissible indicating obesity is associated with an altered gut microbiota 44. modulating the gut microbiota composition partly explains why g. lucidum mycelium can prevent obesity and obe- sity-associated low level inflammation.

how- ever some knowledge gaps need to be addressed in the future be- fore herbs as new therapeutics targeting obesity for the prevention of cardiovascular disease.we need a deeper understanding of the association between the gut microbiota and obese phenotype 111 112. the gut microbiota just like second messengers involves in the gut- brain axis 113 and gut-liver axis 114-116 and plays a role in the development of obesity and related diseases.

reconstitution of the microbiota offers an excit- ing therapeutic strategy before great challenges would have been overcome 30 31.impact of the gut microbiota on the development of obesitythe deciphering of the exact mechanisms underlying the obe- sity development still remains open while some studies have indi- cated a link between an imbalanced gut microbiota and the diseased status and suggested more efforts should be expended in this field.

when pathogenic bacteria have opportunity to occupy the ecological niches it is called dysbiosis 25. although there are over 50 reported bacteria phyla the human and mouse gut microbiota is dominated by several phyla including the bacteroidetes the firmicutes and the actinobacteria 26 whereas proteobacteria verrucomicrobia fusobacteria and cyano- bacteria are present in minor proportions 27. the host exerts a key influence on the composition and a series of factors such as genetic background gender age diet life-style disease and antibiotic use will shape the gut microbiota composition and activities throughoutlife 26 28. changes in the composition and abundance of these commensals could influence the entire immune system and could predispose us to various diseases such as metabolic diseases in- cluding obesity and diabetes cardiovascular disease inflammatory disease and cancer 29. this unbalanced state also promotes intes- tinal inflammation.

the very early stage of studies on the relationship between the composition of the gut microbiota and obesity development demon- strated that the gut microbiota was an important environmental factor influencing energy harvest from the diet and energy storage in the host 32 and the obese microbiome has an increased capacity to harvest energy from the diet 33. obese mice had a 50 reduc- tion in the abundance of the gram-negative bacteroidetes b and a proportional increase in the gram-positive firmicutes f compared with lean animals resulting in an increased fb ratio 34. turn- baugh and colleagues found that 75 of the obesity-enriched genes were from actinobacteria the other 25 were from firmicutes wherease 42 of the lean-enriched genes were from bacteroidetes.

meanwhile their results also indicated the gut microbiota from obese subjects could influ- ence metabolites that characterize the obese state 41.together the gut microbiota could be considered as an impor- tant contributing factor to the pathophysiology of obesity and con- stitutes a promising target in the prevention of obesity-based chronic disorders.

as well known scfas play an important role in the maintenance of health and the devel- opment of disease 50. a traditional chinese herbal formula gegen qinlian decoction containing rhizoma coptidis and using berberine as quality control marker compound has also been re- ported to recover the abundance of scfa-producing bacteria 51. consequently berberine could improve gut barrier function ame- liorate systemic inflammation and inhibit pathogenic bacteria inva- sion through scfas released from scfa-producing bacteria.in order to better understand the role of gut microbiota in ber- berine's efficacy against obesity and diabetes zhang and col- leagues recently performed some studies to compare the berberine- and metformin-mediated gut microbiota changes in hfd-induced obese rats 52. they revealed that berberine almost shared the same mechanisms with metformin in terms of regulating gut micro- biota.

insulin resistance is commonly seen in obesity and is a predictor for cardiovascular diseases 23. obesity is also associated with high circulating levels of triglycerides low high density lipoprotein hdl cholesterol and plasma concentrations of apolipoprotein-b containing lipoproteins all being risk factors for increased cardiovascular disorders 24.obesity and gut microbiotagut microbiotathe gut microbiota about 1014 bacteria colonizes the human intestinal tract and coevolves with the host in a mutually advanta- geous type to maintain eubiosis.

although several lines of evidence support the concept that herbs can target the gut microbiota via different mechanisms as a potential therapeutic strategy for obesity more studies are needed to elucidate the associations between the obesity and the vulnerable bacteria.

as a complex and multi-factorial chronicdisease obesity is related to a series of socio-demographic factors such as gender age cultural level socioeconomic level and geo- graphic distribution and lifestyle factors such as diet sedentary habits smoking and physical activity 3. in addition nonclinical and clinical studies in recent years have revealed that the gut mi- crobiota an environmental factor plays a critical role in the obesity progression and the associated chronic disorders 4-6.here we describe and discuss the relationship between gut mi- crobiota and obesity development.

curcuma longa oleores- ins supplementation of infected cobb and hubbard was associated with an increased percentage of gut lactobacillus and decreased selenihalanaerobacter while ross had a decreased fraction of lac- tobacillus and increased selenihalanaerobacter clostridium ca- lothrix and geitlerinema 55. in addition dall'acqua and col- leagues also found that urinary trimethylamine n-oxide tmao levels were higher in the treated rats compared to the control group suggesting a role of curcuma longa extract supplementation on the gut microbiota 56. therefore these studies showed curcuma longa exerted different modulation roles on gut microbiota among different animal models.lonicerae japonicae flos coming from lonicera japonica thunb.

