cell metabolismpreviewsbeyond digestion the pancreasshapes intestinal microbiota and immunityherbert tilgand timon e. adolph1department of internal medicine i gastroenterology hepatology  endocrinology medical university innsbruck innsbruck 6020 austriacorrespondence our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms that shape the gut microbiota is rapidly emerging.

in this issue of cell metabolism demonstrate that mediators secreted by pancreatic acini shape the intestinal microbiota and intestinal immunity.the gut microbiota has recently evolved as an important player in the pathophysiology of intestinal and extraintestinal diseases .

for example why do 35 of orai1-knockout mice survive and is the intestinal pathology indeed causing this detrimental pheno- type do cathelicidine-related peptides exhibit a protective effects by modula- tion of the microbiota andor through direct immuno-modulation and most importantly how can these findings be translated into human physiology more specifically the report by ahuja and colleagues poses this question does the human pancreas regulate the intestinal microbiota pancreatectomy in humans may represent a valid clinical model to investigate postoperative changes andcell metabolism 25 march 7 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. 495cell metabolismpreviewscollectively this work sheds light on a novel link between pancreatic function and intestinal colonization which may impact on intestinal disease processes.

however the regulation of the intestinal microbiota is incompletely understood.

host- intrinsic factors such as age gender and genetics have been implicated in shaping the gut microbiota in part by affecting host immune responses.

furthermore bile acids appear to critically modulate the intestinal microbiota   which is licensed by the upper gastrointestinal tract .

the pancreas however has not been considered in the regulation of the gut microbiota.

in line with these observations a recent study linked pancreatic antimicrobials with islet function glucoregulation and alterations in the gut microbiota  .

2 impaired cramp secretion by timed pancreas-specific deletion of orai calcium release-activated calcium modulator 1 or ''orai1'' rendered the intestinal microbiota dysbiotic and resulted in bacterial overgrowth and systemic bacteremia as demonstrated by in this issue of cell metabolism.

4 in turn short-chain fatty acids scfas derived from the intestinal microbiota may promote cramp expression in pancreatic ab cells which modulates pancreatic immune responses in auto-immune diabetes .

.subsequent effects on the gut microbiota although such studies are also limited by the fact that this surgical procedure is commonly performed in pancreatic can- cers with often limited life expectancy.

this study describes microbiota al- terations with an enrichment of klebsiella spp.

if so do patients with pancreatic insufficiency exhibit microbial alterations and do these changes render individuals susceptible to intestinal disease simi- larly the study of the human microbiota after pancreas transplantation may be of help to translate the observations by ahuja and colleagues.

