food microbiologydietary fibers and protective lactobacilli drive burrata cheese microbiomefabio minervinia amalia conteb matteo alessandro del nobileb marco gobbettic maria de angelisadepartment of soil plant and food sciences university of bari aldo moro bari italya department of agricultural sciences food and environment university of foggia foggia italyb faculty of science and technology free university of bozen bolzano italycabstract this study was aimed at improving the functional attributes and shelf life of burrata cheese by using protective lactobacilli lactobacillus plantarum lpal and lactobacillus rhamnosus lrb fructooligosaccharides and inulin.

the use of protective lactobacilli in milk enhanced the flavor formation and shelf life of burrata cheese.keywords burrata cheese protective lactobacilli dietary fibers microbiomeurrata a creamy cheese is a specialty of southern italy especially in the regions of apulia campania and basilicata and it is included on the list of traditional agri-food products prodotto agroalimentare tradizionale pat .

the use of dietary fibers and protective cultures could represent a new natural biotechnological tool to improve the sensory quality func- tional features and the shelf life of burrata cheeses.the current study was aimed to improve the functional quality and the shelf life of burrata cheese using fos inulin and protective probiotic lactobacilli.

after 1 day of manufacturing burrata cheeses without added protective cultures or fibers control and those with protective lactobacilli added in milk pl cheese or in milk and governing liquid 2pl cheese had the following gross chemical composition wtwt moisture 65.7 - 0.9 total carbohydrates 3.4 - 0.2 proteins 13.5 - 0.5 fat 16.5 - 0.6 ashes 0.60 - 0.02 and sodium chloride 0.30 - 0.04. burrata cheeses supplemented with i fos and inulin df ii fos inulin and protective lactobacilli in milk dfpl cheese andiii fos inulin and protective lactobacilli in milk and governing liquid df2pl cheese differed p  0.05 from the others in terms of moisture 66.9 - 0.5 proteins 12.3 - 0.3 fat 15.2 - 0.2 and fibers 1.55 - 0.04. after 1 day of manufacture the ph values ranged between ca.

control c is burrata cheese without fos inulin or protective culture.at the species level l. plantarum and l. rhamnosus were detected in burrata cheeses with added protective bacteria until 16 days of storage .

well-adapted cheese genera streptococcus mainly s. thermophilus and lactococcus l. lactis dominated the microbiome of burrata cheeses produced traditionally or with the addition of dietary fibers and accordingly they acidified the burrata during cheese making.

control is burrata cheese without fos inulin or protective culture.fied mozzarella and burrata cheeses  .

six burrata cheeses were made using i the traditional protocol control ii the addition of 0.5 fructooligosaccharides and inulin df cheese iii protective lactobacilli in milk alone pl cheese iv protective lactobacilli in milk and governing liquid 2pl cheese v protective lactobacilli in milk and dietary fibers dfpl cheese and vi protective lactobacilli in milk and governing liquid and dietary fibers df2pl cheese.

burrata cheeses produced by adding protective lactobacilli only in milk pl and dfpl cheeses showed the lowest acidification during cheese making and storage.

according to the different microbiome assemblies burrata samples differed in peptide profiles and the levels of free amino acids.

as shown by a sensory analysis the addition of protective lactobacilli in milk improved the flavor and increased the shelf life of burrata cheese.

in comparison to cheeses made using protective cultures only in milk the shelf lives of those containing cultures also in the governing liquid were not further prolonged and they received lower acceptability scores by the panelists.importance this study provides more in-depth knowledge of the microbiome of burrata cheese and the set-up for a novel biotechnology using prebiotic dietary fi- bers and protective probiotic lactobacillus plantarum lpal and lactobacillus rhamno- sus lrb in milk.

the biotechnology proposed in this study should be considered a useful tool to improve the functional value of burrata cheese.

recently burrata di andria cheese obtained the eu protected geographical indication .

burrata cheese is manufactured using pasteurized cow's milk which is mixed with the acidified serum of the previous day's cheese making so that the initial equilibrated ph is adjusted to6.1 - 0.10 and calf rennet .

