reference ranges of our assay are reported in .targets of glucocorticoids in the developing gutfate of breast-milk glucocorticoids in the neonatal gutthere is some evidence showing that breast-milk glucocorticoids are absorbed by the developing gut into the systemic circulation.

it appeared however that when glucocorticoids were administered systemically they were more effective in inducing maturation than enterally adminis- tered glucocorticoids and it was thus suggested that enteral glucocorticoids probably influence gut maturation after absorption into the systemic circulation .teichberg et al.

they found higher gastrin levels from birthonwards in infants who had received antenatal glucocorticoids n 28 and higher motilin levels only after the initiation of enteral feeding compared to infants who did not receive antenatal glucocorticoids n 17. antenatal glucocorticoids did not influence vasointestinal peptide.

the gutebrain axis might be a possible mechanism through which glucocorticoids in breast milk could exert systemic effects in the infant.systemic effects of breast-milk glucocorticoids in offspringsurprisingly few studies have investigated associations between breast-milk glucocorticoids and systemic effect in offspring.

e3nutritional programming by glucocorticoids in breast milk targets mechanisms and possible implicationsjonneke j. hollanders md phd candidate   annemieke c. heijboer md phd clinical chemist-endocrinologist  bibian van der voorn md phd candidate joost rotteveel md phd pediatric endocrinologist  martijn j.j. finken md phd pediatric endocrinologist a department of pediatrics vu university medical center amsterdam the netherlandsb department of clinical chemistry endocrine laboratory vu university medical center amsterdam the netherlandsc laboratory of endocrinology academic medical center amsterdam the netherlandsa r t i c l e i n f o article historyavailable online 19 october 2017keywords human milk steroids infant newborngut microbiota gastrointestinal microbiomevertical transmission of glucocorticoids via breast milk might pose a mechanism through which lactating women could prepare their infants for the postnatal environment.

findings from studies investigating the systemic effects of breast-milk glucocorticoids are difficult to interpret since none took the diurnal rhythm of glucocorticoids in breast milk into consideration and various analytical methods were used.

in contrast to the inhibitory effect of glucocorticoids on the secretion of crh by the hypothalamus glucocorticoids stimulated the expression of the crh gene in cultures of human placenta .

therefore the effects of glucocorticoids on the mammary gland may become more evident after parturition when progesterone levels fall.determinants of breast-milk glucocorticoid concentrationsowing to their lipophilic structure glucocorticoids are able to cross mammary epithelia through simple diffusion in the direction of their concentration gradient.

this assumption is based on observations showing that breast-milk cortisol was strongly correlated with plasma cortisol  with the con- centration in breast milk being about 1e13 of the circulating level e. another possible source of breast-milk glucocorticoids is the skin which was recently shown to be capable of glucosteroido- genesis  although it is currently unclear whether dermal glucocorticoids could penetrate the mammary gland in significant amounts.the concentration of breast-milk cortisol was relatively high in the last part of gestation compatible with the rise in plasma cortisol followed by a 50 decline within 2 days after delivery .

moreover another study found that salivary cortisol con- centration in infants correlated positively with the level in their mothers only in those who were breast-fed .effects of breast-milk glucocorticoids on intestinal maturationthere is overwhelming evidence mostly from studies in rats indicating that glucocorticoids are important for intestinal maturation.

not only have they been implicated to play a role in the metabolism of cortisol they probably also metabolize glucocorticoid precursors and metabolites e. some of these compounds enter the enterohepatic circulation but their biological effect is unknown.therefore although the developmental timing for local trophic effects of glucocorticoids on the intestine is probably before birth the interaction between glucocorticoids and the gut microbiome i.e.

the primary source of breast- milk glucocorticoids is probably the systemic circulation.

there are some data suggesting that breast-milk glucocorticoids could pro- mote intestinal maturation either locally or after absorption into the systemic circulation.

breast-milk glucocorticoids might also have anabbreviations hpa axis hypothalamusepituitaryeadrenal axis 11b-hsd 11b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase acth adrenocorticotropin hormone crh corticotropin releasing hormone lcemsms liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry cbg corticosteroid binding globulin bdi beck depression inventory poms profile of mood states stai state trait anxiety inventory ibq infant behavior questionnaire bmi body mass index.

never- theless glucocorticoids in breast milk might offer a novel potential pathway for signal transmission from mothers to their infants.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionnumerous studies suggest that adversities occurring in early life could predispose to later diseases such as cardiovascular diseases type 2 diabetes mellitus and neuropsychiatric diseases.

