similarly f. prausnitzii a2-165 increased ovalbumin- specific t-cell proliferation and reduced the number of ifn-g t cells in vitro 6. in addition we have found in humans that hepatic fat content 45 was associated with low f. prausnitzii abundance and increased adipose tissue inflammation independent of weight 4. hepatic fat accumulation may lead to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease that is the hepatic manifestation of the metabolic disorders and highly frequent in obese individuals 5.by far most of the studies described above have evaluated the effects of f. prausnitzii a2-165 strain on the host while the properties of atcc 27766 strain have been scarcely studied.

generally in obesity adipocyte hypertrophy in the expanding adipose tissue leads to local hypoxia and subsequent cell death that drive leukocyte infiltration into the adipose tissue ensuing increased inflammation  how- ever despite the higher fat mass intensely decreased infiltration of cd45-positive leukocytes was observed in f. prausnitzii-treated group which is in agreement with the known anti-inflammatory effects of this bacterium in the visceral adipose tissue f. prausnitzii treatment increased the expression of adiponectin which predominantly secreted by the visceraladipose tissue has several insulin-sensitizing effects at the whole organism level 014. in accordance low concentrations of this adipokine have been associated with obesity type 2 diabetes and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease that are characterized by insulin resistance  4. a recent study shed light to the possible mechanisms that connect the gut microbes to host's adiponectin signaling by showing that the cell wall components of gram-positive bacteria stimulated adiponectin secretion from mesenteric adipocytes while lipolysaccharides from gram- negative bacteria inhibited the secretion  in agreement with the findings of though initially f. prausnitzii was classified as gram-negative it resembles phylogenetically more gram-positive than negative bacteria and therefore likely has similar cell wall properties to gram-positive ones being able to stimulate adiponectin expression .it has been suggested that gut microbiota may also influence muscle size and metabolism .

in the f. prausnitzii-treated mice weight gain was higher than in the control chow group during weeks 1-4 and week 10 p  0.017 0.004 0.004 0.004 and0.009 respectively.compared to control hfd f. prausnitzii-treated mice had significantly lower hepatic ast p  0.029 and alt p  0.029 values and the control chow lower alt .

the mice treated with f. prausnitzii had significantly less triglycerides in liver p  0.029 compared to the control hfd mice fi.gas chromatography analyses of hepatic lipid classes revealed a decrease in f. prausnitzii-treated mice in the molar percentages of 180 stearate204n-6 arachidonic acid 205n-3 eicosapentae- noic acid and 226n-3 docosahexanoic acid in tags compared to the control hfd mice .

prausnitziihfd molmean- s.d.p-value controlhfd vs controlchowp-value controlhfd vs f. prausnitziihfdp-value controlchow vs f. prausnitziihfdtagplabbreviation hfd high-fat diet.all data are presented as mean - s.d.

prausnitzii-treated mice po0.05 for both supplementary figure s3b.when compared to the hfd control group the direction of the effects of the f. prausnitzii treatment was almost exclusively the same as in the chow diet except that the chow diet did not increase cs and adipor fi b but increased insulin receptor irb p  0.008 supplementary figure s3c while the f. prausnitzii-treated mice had a nonsigni- ficant trend toward increased irb expression p  0.09 supplementary figure s3c.the participation of other peripheral tissues in hepatic fat accumulation has been recognized and therefore we further studied the molecular changes in the visceral and subcutaneous adipose tissue as well as gastrocnemius muscles.f.

conse- quently the visceral adipose tissue of the f. praus- nitzii-treated mice was more insulin sensitive in terms of increased irb expression p  0.016 d and insulin-responsive hormone-sensitive lipase phos- phorylation p  0.021 .figure 3 f. prausnitzii treatment increases adiponectin expression and insulin sensitivity and decreases inflammation in the visceral adipose tissue.

in addition phylum cyanobacteria was more abundant in control chow mice than in control hfd and f. prausnitzii-treated mice po0.05 for both.in the bacterial genus level the only pretreatment difference was the abundance of genus allobaculum being higher in control chow mice than in control hfd and f. prausnitzii-treated mice po0.05 for both 6a.

similarly we found that compared to the hfd control group f. praus- nitzii treatment significantly increased the intestinal tight junction protein-encoding tjp1 gene expression p  0.043 supplementary figure s5a that may indicate increased gut integrity.discussionin this work we found that the hepatic lipid content was lower in the f. prausnitzii-treated and control chow mice than in the hfd control mice.

notably 202n-6 eicosadienoic acid was increased in pls of both chow and f. prausnitzii-treated mice and 204n-6 arachidonic acid of f. prausnitzii- treated mice compared to hfd controls and may be an indication of anti-inflammatory effects.recently snp rs762623 that reduces the expres- sion of cdkn1a has been shown to associate with fibrosis in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease patients .

we studied the effects of oral f. prausnitzii treatment on high-fat fed mice.

compared to the high-fat control mice f. prausnitzii-treated mice had lower hepatic fat content aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase and increased fatty acid oxidation and adiponectin signaling in liver.

adiponectin expression was increased in the visceral adipose tissue and the subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissues were more insulin sensitive and less inflamed in f. prausnitzii-treated mice.

further f. prausnitzii treatment increased muscle mass that may be linked to enhanced mitochondrial respiration modified gut microbiota composition and improved intestinal integrity.

our findings show that f. prausnitzii treatment improves hepatic health and decreases adipose tissue inflammation in mice and warrant the need for further studies to discover its therapeutic potential.the isme journal 2017 11 1667-1679 published online 4 april 2017introductionfaecalibacterium prausnitzii is considered as one of the most important bacterial indicators of a healthy gut.

