drafted the first version of the manuscript all authors reviewed and approved the manuscript.conflicts of interestthere are no conflicts of interest.adepartment of infectious diseases hospital universi- tario ramo'n y cajal facultad de medicina universi- dad de alcala' irycis madrid bunidad mixta de investigacio'n en geno'mica y salud de la fundacio'n para el fomento de la investigacio'n sanitaria y biome'dica de la comunidad valenciana fisabio- salud pu'blica y el instituto cavanilles de biodiversi- dad y biologi'a evolutiva universidad de valencia valencia cdepartment of pediatric infectious diseases hospital universitario la paz idipaz ddepartment of pathology hospital universitario ramo'n y cajal and eciber en epidemiologi'a y salud pu'blica ciber- esp madrid spain.correspondence to sergio serrano-villar md phd hospital universitario ramo'n y cajal facultad de medicina universidad de alcala' irycis madrid spain.e-mail received 15 september 2016 revised 8 november2016 accepted 14 november 2016.referencesvan leeuwen mt vajdic cm middleton mg mcdonald am law m kaldor jm et al.

participants were asymptomatic study participants undergoing screening for anal hpv- associated lesions with anal cytology hra and biopsy of acetowhite lugol-negative lesions or blindly if no lesions were identified.

in feces however only ruminococcus showed an adequate aucroc indicating that the mucosal-adherent micro- biota might be preferable to the fecal microbiota for future studies in this field.in summary components of the fecal and rectal microbiota are able to predict the presence of precancer- ous anal lesions.

study participants were classified according to the presence of histologic lesions hsil n 14 lsil n 13 and normal n 15 of whom the bacterial 16srrna gene could be amplified in tissue in 10 eight and five study participants respectively.

hsil high- grade intraepithelial lesions lsil low-grade intraepithelial lesions roc receiver operating characteristic.

in women cervical microbiota has been implicated in the development of hpv-associated precancerous lesions and linked with proinflammatory species 34. outside the hpvand hiv fields emerging evidence supports that intestinal bacteria might amplify or mitigate carcinogenesis 56. hence the altered composition 7 and function 8 of the so- called hiv-associated microbiome might explain the altered course of hpv anal disease during hiv infection.methodswe performed a cross-sectional study in a high-resolution anoscopy hra clinic.

gardnerella for which the abundance progressively decreases in the vaginal microbiota during the development of precancerous cervical lesions 3 was predictive of hsil.

research letteraids 2017 31591-594hiv hpv and microbiota partners in crimesergio serrano-villara emilia va'squez-dom'inguezb jose' antonio pe'rez-molinaa tal'ia sainzc amparo de benitod amparo latorrebe andre's moyabemar'ia jose' gosalbesbem and santiago morenoamaltered interplay between gut mucosa and dysbio- tic bacteria during hiv infection seems to fuel chronic immune dysfunction and might explain the excess rates of human papillomavirus hpv- associated anal cancer in hiv-infected individuals.

a member of the lachnospiraceae family catenibacterium which has been defined as a component of the hiv- associated microbiota 12 was also here a biomarker of hsil.in keeping with the findings in mucosa ruminococcus a genus which appears to be a central component of the healthy microbiota 812 was found in feces predictive of hsil.

this study was supported by the instituto de salud carlos iii plan estatal de i d i 2013-2016 projects pie1400045 pi1500345 and ee and cofinanced by the european development regional fund 'a way to achieve europe' erdf and by the spanish ministry of economy and competitiveness saf2015-65878-r. s.s.v.

1. biomarkers of precancerous anal lesions in feces and rectal mucosa using lefse analysis in study participants.

these bacteria could be exploited as diagnostic tools for the screening of precancerous anal lesions in hiv-infected msm and might eventually become targets for interventions.acknowledgementsthe authors would like to particularly thank the study participants for their commitment to participate in research studies.

in feces study participants with hsil also showed research letter593enrichment for the pathogenic pseudomonas aeruginosa which might influence hivhpv disease via induction of the kynurenine pathway 13. last bifidobacterium which enhance antitumor immunity and anti-pd-l1 efficacy 14 was depleted in feces in study participants with ain suggesting that loss of this taxa could promote hpv disease 14.to further explore the diagnostic accuracy of the biomarkers identified in the lefse analysis we calculated the predictive values aucroc sensitivity and speci- ficity of those taxa with higher lda scores.

here we show in hiv-infected msm undergoing screening for hpv-related cancer that specific fecal and mucosal bacteria are able to predict the exist- ence of precancerous anal lesions.

if confirmed these bacterial biomarkers could be exploited either as diagnostic tools or therapeutic targets.introductionalbeit uncommon in the general population there is increasing awareness of marked 60-130 fold increased risk of anal cancer in people living with hiv specially among msm 12. for reasons that are poorly under- stood hiv infection facilitates persistence of mucosal human papillomavirus hpv and increases both the risk of anal squamous intraepithelial neoplasia ain and the progression from low-grade lsil to high-grade intraepithelial lesions hsil.

