first reported that exercise increases gut microbiota diversity and highlighted that exercise wascorrespondence qingjuan tange-mail abbreviations gi gastrointestinal lda linear discriminantan important factor in the complex relationship among the host host immunity and the microbiota 4 5. several recent studies have demonstrated that moderate exercise could mod- ulate the gut microbiome in a manner that benefits health 6. nevertheless other studies have investigated the alteration of gut microbiota following intense exercise 7. these findings have confirmed that an altered gut microbiome and increased bacterial translocation may account for the profound postex- ertional malaise experienced by chronic fatigue syndrome patients 8. further gut microbial dysbiosis may predict diar- rhea and fatigue in patients 9. reduced diversity and altered composition of the gut microbiome as well as increased in- testinal permeability have been observed in chronic fatigue syndrome 10 11. therefore developing therapeutic inter- ventions aimed at reducing local inflammation restoring gi tract immunity and integrity and modifying the intestinal microbiome may ameliorate fatigue symptoms 10.analysis mda malondialdehyde nat neoagarotetraose otu operational taxonomic unit rr recovery rate scfa short-chain fatty acid sod superoxide dismutasethese authors contributed equally to this work.colour online see the article online to view figs.

has demon- strated the increase in gut microbial diversity in association with exercise and dietary extremes in professional rugby play- ers 426. a recent finding showed that exercise initiated dur- ing early life might have a more pronounced impact on the gut microbiota than exercise initiated in adulthood 27.our results proposed that intense exercise could signifi- cantly change gut microbiota structure increasing pathogens and decreasing probiotics.

intense exercise can lead to the production and accumulation of reactive free radicals and reduce gi tract perfusion which results in oxidative stress injury and energy source depletion as well as excess metabolite accumulation 18 such as reduced nutrition absorption and compromised gut barrier function 19. studies have demonstrated that in- tense exercise can cause small intestinal injuries and a loss of gut barrier function followed by gi symptoms such as nausea heartburn diarrhea and gi bleeding 20. recently kastellorizios and burgess proposed a series of biomarkers for the detection and prediction of exhaustion during intense physical exercise.

in the gut lumen the pre- dominant phylotypes--erysipelotrichaceae prevotellaceae and coriobacteriaceae--which are all related to metabolic disor- ders or metabolic exchange with the host were increased in colorectal cancer patients 28. brevundimonas diminuta an emerging pathogen resistant to colistin was found in cystic fibrosis and pneumonia patients 29. coprobacillus has been reported to be closely associated with colon cancer 30. more- over it has been found that megasphaera can ferment lactic acid to propionic acid which has a well-characterized anti- inflammatory effect on both colonic epithelium and immune cells 3132. in addition the relative abundance of desulfovib- rionales is significantly increased by intense exercise which has the potential to cause chronic gi disease 33. furtherfigure 5. microbial diversity in the mice gut microbiome.

gut 2014 63 1838-1839.mika a. fleshner m. early-life exercise may promote lasting brain and metabolic health through gut bacterial metabolites.

research articleneoagarotetraose protects mice against intense exercise-induced fatigue damage by modulating gut microbial composition and functionna zhang1 xiangzhao mao1 robert w. li2 enling hou1 yuming wang1 changhu xue1 and qingjuan tang11 college of food science and engineering ocean university of china qingdao china2 animal genomics and improvement laboratory united states department of agriculture agriculture research service usda-ars beltsville md usascope exhaustive exercise stress has emerged as an important health issue and gastrointestinal problems are a common concern during intense exercise.

however there were no differences in mus- cle glycogen and sod activity between the motion and nat groups p  0.05. further the content of mda mean - sem  13.25 - 0.48 for motion and 11.44 - 0.56 nmolml for nat did differ significantly p  0.05.intense exercise stress appeared to negatively impact the appetite of the mice and resulted in a decreased food intake p  0.01. consequently intense exercise stress led to signif- icantly reduced body weight in the mice p  0.05. compared to the motion mice the nat-fed mice exhibited an increase in body weight.3.2 nat maintained gut epithelial integrity in mice under intense exercisewe analyzed the histological morphology of the small intes- tine of the mice fig.

1-7 in colour.prebiotics are considered to have the potential to reduce disturbances in gut microbiota and gut inflammation.

5. taken together our data suggest that nat tended to alter the microbial composition of mice under intense exercise.nat affected the gut microbial diversity of mice under intense exercisemicrobial diversity in the mice gut was assessed using a qi- ime pipeline based on the otu table supporting informa- tion table 2 generated using a closed reference protocol 16. the rarefaction curve analysis suggested that the se- quencing depth in this study was adequate supporting in- formation fig.

to test whether the observed injuries in the intestinal mucosa were accompanied by a more widespread decrease in the gut ep- ithelial integrity we examined the level of serum endotoxin and the expression of the tight junction components includ- ing e-cadherin occludins and muc2 critical structures in regulating intestinal permeability and the epithelial paracel- lular pathway 22.we hypothesized that the differing gut epithelial integrity might result in variations in how the complex carbohy- drate nat was fermented by the microbiota into metabolites such as scfas.

red motion-enriched taxa green nat-enriched taxa.figure 7. selected biological pathways and functional cat- egories of gut microbiota displaying differences in relative abundance in the gut microbiota.

our results show that the relative abundance of pathogenic bacteria was significantly reduced by nat treat- ment which effectively reduced oxidative damage.in a nutshell nat has potential to alleviate body fatigue by regulating the gut microbiota and its metabolites resulting in improved glycogen accumulation and reduced oxidative damage.conclusionin this study we demonstrated that nat effectively improved energy storage and decreased the accumulation of harmful metabolic byproducts as well as protected the epithelial in- tegrity of the gut.

gut 2014 63 1913-1920.hold g. l. the gut microbiota dietary extremes and exer- cise.

gi symptoms such as nau- sea heartburn diarrhea and gi bleeding are common during exercise 2 with several causes including mechanic is- chemic and nutritional factors 3. recently the impact of ex- ercise on the gut microbiota has received sufficient scientific attentions.

to date neoagaro-oligosaccharides have been found to exhibit various biological and physiological functions such as skin moisturizing a whitening effect on melanoma cells and anti- inflammatory properties 12.in this study we utilized a 16s rrna gene-based approach to characterize the antifatigue effects of nat as well as the interrelations between gut microbiota and fatigue induced by intense exercise.

