these data suggest that the increased production of il-21 observed upon perturbation to the intestinal microbiota such as in patients with inflammatory bowel disease ibd and mice treated with dss might reflect a compensatory mechanism to restore homeostasis in the intestine however whether il-21 regulates the composition of the intestinal microbiota has not been directly examined97-99.future prospects for tracking type 3 immunity in the c. rodentium infection modela shortcoming of the c. rodentium infection model is the lack of antigen-specific tools with which to track the fate and function of the pathogen-specific cd4 t cells and b cells during infection.

adopting this strategy or a similar one to study antigen-specific t cell responses during c. rodentium infection would greatly improve our understanding of the c. rodentium-specific cd4 t cell subsets that develop during enteropathogenic infection and their overlapping and distinct functions relative to ilc3s.

finally without better methods for tracking clonal populations of cd4 t cells and b cells during c. rodentium infection it is difficult to understand how and where antigen-specific th17 cells transition into th1 cells during infection and the roles played by each in host defense.ideally the utilization of c. rodentium strains that express model antigens should eventually be supplemented with additional reagents to track pathogen-specific lymphocytes based upon the endogenous antigens of this bacterium.

in this review we discuss type 3 immunity in the context of c. rodentium infection and discuss recent publications that use this model to understand how the innate and adaptive components of immunity intersect to mediate host protection against enteric pathogens and maintain homeostasis with the microbiota.keywordsil-21 il-22 c. rodentium th17 ilc tfhglobal burden of diarrheagenic eschericia colidiarrheagenic pathogens cause approximately 0.8 million deaths per year in children under age 5 and are the second leading cause of infection-related deaths in this demographic1-3.

this suggests thatil-22 signaling and some aspects of adaptive immunity are critical for protecting the crypt epithelium during infection with ae enteropathogens although the basis for this is not understood.innate immune response to c. rodentiumupon attachment of c. rodentium epithelial cells cells are activated to release antimicrobial proteins serum amyloid a saa and reactive oxygen species ros as a first line of defense to effectively quarantine the pathogen to their apical surface29-31.

while relative contributions of these populations to protection against c. rodentium infection have been debated here we summarize recent findings and promote the concept of integrated type 3 immunity that requires the interplay of il-22-producing ilc3s and cd4 t cells3260 which appear to have both redundant and non-redundant functions.silberger et al.page 5spatiotemporal control of the interplay between il-22-producing innate and adaptive lymphocytes during c. rodentium infectionilc3s th17 cells and th22 cells share several phenotypic and developmental attributes6162.

in view of the initial findings that implicate an important role for ncr- ilc3s early in infection these observations imply that ncr- ilc3s might be more critical to early host protection prior to the development of il-22-producing cd4 t cells.in a study that used an intimin deficient strain of c. rodentium that cannot attach to the epithelium it was demonstrated that the production of il-22 by ilc3s is triggered by the presence of luminal c. rodentium whereas the production of il-17 by cd4 t cells requires epithelial attachment24 fig.

indeed it is possible that ilc3 cells recognize c. rodentium infection in the absence of a functional t3ss in a manner consistent with inflammasome activation in bone marrow derived macrophages infected with the atpase-deficient descn mutant c. rodenitum36.recently a fate reporter mouse was generated to mark all cells that have transcribed il-22 regardless of continued il-22 production59.

thus these data suggest that the antimicrobial effects of il-22 on c. rodentium infection could occur directly or reflect a perturbation to the microbiota that alters niche competition.colonization resistance or the ability of individual bacterial species to impede the colonization of successive species was initially recognized in the 1950s and is the premise for probiotic regimens and fecal microbiota transfer fmt which has become an accepted therapeutic approach for treating antibiotic-resistant clostridium difficile infections74.indeed colonization of neonatal mice with lactobacillus rhamnosus and l. helveticus on day seven of life was found to enhance the survival of neonates infected with c. rodentium seven days later75.

in fact the only study to examine the antigen- specific cd4 t cell response to c. rodentium infection used the ova-expressing strain to demonstrate ova-specific th1 cells enhance igg1 antibodies to c. rodentium56.

c. rodentium attachment induces epithelial hyperplasia and reduces the diversity of the microbiota which is restored during the resolution of c. rodentium infection.

2. il-22-dependent actions that contribute to host defense during c. rodentium infectionduring type 3 immune responses to c. rodentium infection il-22 promotes host protection by upregulating epithelial wound repair and antimicrobial peptide production.

cd4 t cells tend to initially produce il-17a and il-22 in response to c. rodentium infection but as infection progresses ifn-g production and epithelial damage increase along with a reduction in the number of goblet cells305859.

using this model it was found that il-22- producing cd4 t cells expanded during infection and were an abundant source of il-22 after day 5 of infection consistent with previous results12 whereas ilcs and gdt cells produced il-22 earlier in infection but did not expand59.

designed a bioluminescent reporter c. rodentium strain in which the ler promoter was fused to the luxcdabe operon of photorhabdus luminescens to report the expression of lee-encoded virulence factors during c. rodentium infection22.

