accepted 20 january 2017 doi 10.1111exd.13312original ar ticle loss of cutaneous microbial diversity during first 3 weeks of life in very low birthweight infantsalexander salava1  velma aho2  emilia lybeck1  pedro pereira2  lars paulin2  irmeli nupponen3  annamari ranki1  petri auvinen2  sture andersson3  antti lauerma11department of dermatology andallergology university of helsinki and helsinki university hospital helsinki finland2institute of biotechnology dna sequencing and genomics laboratory university of helsinki helsinki finland3children's hospital university of helsinki and university hospital helsinki finlandcorrespondencealexander salava department of dermatology and allergology helsinki university hospital helsinki finland.email funding informationhelsinki-uusimaa hospital district research fund grantaward number tyh 2012 2071  introduction the cutaneous microbiome of neonates has been shown to undergo profound changes in early life but these changes have not been previously characterized in very low birthweight vlbw infants in intensive care.1-3 exogenous factors in intensive care such as inva- sive medical devices colonization from hospital personnel and family members and the microbial selection caused by antibiotic treatment seem to play a role in the colonization of the neonatal skin with staphylococcus epidermidis and other coagulase-negative commensalbacteria.4 it has been suggested that neonates have a special suscep- tibility to coagulase-negative commensal bacterial colonization due to skin and immunological immaturity.5 coagulase-negative staphylo- cocci especially s. epidermidis are considered the principal pathogen of neonatal sepsis ns causing almost 80 of the cases in vlbw ne- onates in developed countries.6 neonates with invasive devices for example a central venous catheter are known to be predisposed tos.

the changes can be illustrated with or- dination plots figures 4 and s3 where most samples from the 1st week of life cluster on the left and contain more probionibacterium and samples from weeks 2-4 on the right with more staphylococcus with samples from week 5 onwards falling between these extremes.five of the 12 infants nos.

the study protocol was approved by the ethics committee of the children's hospital helsinki university hospital approval number 1031303032012.  sample collectionmicrobiome samples were collected in the nicu by three nurses from neonates' central abdominal skin and incubators with a pro- tocol based on previous studies8 with sterile gloves using a ster- ile flocked swab copan flocked swab ca usar that was dipped thoroughly in a buffer solution sterile 0.15 moll nacl with 0.1 tween-20 and afterwards rubbed gently over the sampling area of 5x5 cm the same in all neonates.

top plot samples from neonates that developed sepsis middle plot samples from neonates that did not develop sepsis bottom plot 10 most common bacterial generawith the exception of infant number 7 the cutaneous microbiome was dominated by high abundances of one otu staphylococcus otu00007 figure 2 table s3.

because of the very special clinical characteristics of the patients vlbw infants septic patients and nicu environment this study could be conducted as a case study only and any modification of antibiotic treatment in these infants would have been unethical in this setting.

a notable rise in mi- crobial diversity in later time points was seen in three of the five septic infants 60 table s2 and in three of the seven non-septic infants 43 table s2.

first day of sepsis x end of neonatal intensive care unit nicu stay red bar days when secondary antibiotics were givencutaneous microbial diversity figure 1 tables s2 and s3 changed substantially in all infants.

in infant number 7 after the decrease in diver- sity the cutaneous microbiome consisted mostly of staphylococcus otu00007 and an otu of the genus clostridium sensu stricto.during treatment in the nicu range 12-86 days a recovery of higher cutaneous microbial diversity was seen in 6 of 12 infants 50 after the termination of the secondary antibiotics.

skin microbiome samples from selected vlbw infants were obtained on various days during the patients' treatment in nicu.

here other factors such as breach of the cutaneous barrier by inva- sive medical devices and concomitant infections may play a role there have been reports of the association of intestinal microbiome and ns and of biofilm-associated catheter infections.28the size of our patient cohort was relatively small 12 infants and the samples were unevenly spread across their treatment periods in the nicu.

k. costello e. m. carlisle e. m. bik m. j. morowitz d. a. relmanmbio 2013 4 e00782.n.

g. dominguez-bello k. m. de jesus-laboy n. shen l. m. cox a. amir a. gonzalez n. a. bokulich s. j. song m. hoashi j. i. rivera- vinas k. mendez r. knight j. c. clemente nat.

the characteristics of the early days 1-8 cutaneous microbi- ome in healthy neonates have been described in a recent study.16important factors that might influence the microbiome are imma- turity of the neonatal skin systemic antibiotic treatment in the nicu all neonates received the same primary antibiotics or environmental factors intensive care ward incubator mothers' skin.

left column neonates that developed sepsis right column neonates that did not develop sepsis.figure s4 inflammatory parameters c-reactive protein blood leuco- cytes per neonate and day during nicu treatment.

a neonates thatdeveloped sepsis b neonates that did not develop sepsis.figure s5 mean relative abundances of the top 10 most common taxa in the incubator samples summarized by neonate.

