in both studies stronger effects were observed when exposure occurred in the first 6 months of life suggesting that a critical window exists where antibiotic exposure is particularly damaging to the developing gut microbiota.surprisingly little is known about the impact of in utero antibiotic exposure on the infant gut microbiota although this is an area of growing interest given the widespread use of antibiotics during pregnancy 40 increasing knowledge of maternal-infant transfer of microbiota see infant gut microbiota and obe- sity and emerging evidence that even prenatal antibiotic exposure is associated with the risk of obesity see epidemiologic evidence early-life antibiotics and subsequent obesity.experimental evidence antibiotics microbiota and obesity in animal modelsanimal models provide the opportunity to precisely control the dose and timing of antibiotic exposure determine their impact on weight gain and study the un- derlying biological mechanisms including the role of gut microbiota.

in early life appears to be associ- ated with a lower risk of becoming overweight whereas high abundance of bac- teroides fragilis increases the likelihood of obesity development 32. moreover one of the strongest predictors of childhood obesity is maternal obesity 33 and a body of evidence suggests this may be partially explained by the vertical trans- fer of obesogenic microbiota from obese mothers to their offspring 5 33.with mounting evidence that gut microbiota contributes to weight gain and obesity there is increasing interest in targeting or manipulating gut microbiota to prevent obesity or facilitate weight loss.

int j obes lond 201539665-670.krenz-niedbala m koscinski k puch ea et al is the relationship between breastfeeding and childhood risk of asthma and obesity mediated by infant antibiotic treatment breastfeed med 201510326-333.edmonson mb eickhoff jc weight gain and obesity in infants and young children ex- posed to prolonged antibiotic prophylaxis.

several studies have reported stronger associations in males 13 17-19 although others found no sex differences 9 15. one study found that antibiotics were associated with increased obesity risk among children of normal weight mothers while a protective association was observed among children of overweight mothers 7. the mechanisms underlying these apparent interactions remain unexplained but may involve gut microbiota since both sex and maternal obesity are known to influence the establishment of the infant microbiota 5.adding to the growing body of observational evidence edmonson and eick- hoff 22 recently analyzed data from a randomized placebo-controlled trial of prolonged antibiotic prophylaxis among young children at risk for recurrent urinary tract infections.

how- ever the hypothesized role of microbiota is supported by evidence linking gut microbiota with metabolic dysfunction weight gain and obesity see infant gut microbiota and obesity and by studies demonstrating that early antibiotic ex- posure can significantly and permanently alter gut microbiota profiles see an- tibiotics and the developing gut microbiota.

obesity silver spring 201725438- 444.li dk chen h ferber j odouli r infection and antibiotic use in infancy and risk of childhood obesity a longitudinal birth cohort study.

intriguingly these changes can sometimes be detected as early as the first weeks or months of life among infants who gain excessive weight later in childhood 4 32.emerging evidence suggests that disruption of normal gut microbiota devel- opment early in life may foster an obesogenic microbiota that contributes to the subsequent development of obesity 26. summarizing evidence from 8studies investigating the association between maternal and infant gut microbi- ota and childhood obesity kozyrskyj et al.

nat com- mun 201567486.kaliannan k wang b li xy et al omega-3 fatty acids prevent early-life antibiotic expo- sure-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis and later-life obesity.

exposure later in infancy after 6 months was not consistently associated with weight gain in these studies 8 9. however a recent longitudinal analysis of over 160000 us children 10 demonstrated cumulative and persistent effects of antibiotic use on body mass index bmi trajectories from 3 to 15 years of age suggesting that antibiotic use beyond infancy may continue to influence weight gain throughout childhood.in contrast to the studies above a registry-based us cohort study by gerber et al.

scand j immunol 201480 250-260.gonzalez-perez g hicks al tekieli tm et al maternal antibiotic treatment impacts de- velopment of the neonatal intestinal microbi- ome and antiviral immunity.

obesity is a complex and mul- tifactorial condition thus a multipronged prevention strategy will be required to curb the current obesity epidemic.

at lower taxonomic levels obesity has been associated with higher abundance of the en- terobacteriaceae family prevotella clostridium eubacterium and roseburia genera and faecalibacterium prausnitzii and lower abundance of the genus bi- fidobacterium 5 30. while the majority of this evidence has arisen from cross- sectional studies that cannot determine whether alterations in microbiota com- position are a cause or consequence of weight gain an increasing number of longitudinal studies are demonstrating that alterations in gut microbiota pre- cede the development of obesity.

nature 20064441022- 1023.turta o rautava s antibiotics obesity and the link to microbes - what are we doing to our children bmc med 20161457.gohir w ratcliffe em sloboda dm of the bugs that shape us maternal obesity the gut microbiome and long-term disease risk.

we review evidence from 17 epidemiologic studies suggesting that antibiotic ex- posure during critical periods of early development may influence weight gain and the development of obesity.

1. early-life antibiotic exposure gut microbiota and development of obesity.

