high sulfate levels are currently often a hindrance for effective uptake of selenate by plants zayed and terry 1992. genetic engineering approaches have already been successful for several s assimilation-related enzymes reviewed by pilon- smits and leduc 2009. overexpression of atps cgs and smt in nonhyperaccumulator b. juncea have led to signifi- cant increases in se accumulation atps smt volatilization cgs andor tolerance atps cgs smt leduc et al.journal of environmental quality132004 pilon-smits et al.

the window between se deficiency and toxicity is very narrow about one order of magnitude hence both se deficiency and toxicity are problems worldwide lyons et al.

2003 stadtman 1990. higher plants do not require se but readily take it up due to its similarity to sulfur s anderson 1993. although se accu- mulation can negatively affect plants leading to chlorosis and stunted growth low levels of se can promote plant growth and stress resistance hartikainen 2005 pilon-smits et al.

because se is also an essential nutri- ent se-enriched plant material may be considered biofortified food and may be used to alleviate se deficiency in low-se areas banuelos and dhillon 2011a.selenium deficiency has been estimated to affect a billion people worldwide in areas where soil se levels are naturally low lyons et al.

agricultural use of seleniferous soils or industrial use of selenif- erous fossil fuels can accelerate the release of se into the envi- ronment often causing toxicity particularly when the se gets concentrated by evapotranspiration terry et al.

fort collins co 80523-1878. assigned to associate editor tracy punshon.abbreviations aps adenosine 5c-phosphosulfate apse adenosine 5c-selenate atps atp sulfurylase cgs cystathionine-g-synthase dmdse dimethyldiselenide dmse dimethylselenide dw dry weight gls glucosinolate secys selenocysteine smt selenocysteine methyltransferase semet selenomethionine.10and dhillon 2011a zhao and mcgrath 2009. plants use s transporters and metabolic pathways to take up inorganic sel- enate and selenite and assimilate them into organic secys and selenomethionine semet which may be methylated and stored as methyl-secys or methyl-semet or further converted into vola- tile dimethylselenide dmse or dimethyldiselenide dmdse anderson 1993 shrift 1969 sors et al.

these same mechanisms are found in many bacteria and fungi in addition many microbes can reduce selenite to insoluble elemental se as a detoxification mechanism stolz et al.

2006. different plant species show dif- ferent levels of se tolerance transformation sequestration and volatilization and harbor different microbial communities sura de jong et al.

2015 white et al.

efficient utilization of the com- bined plant and microbial processes allows plant-based systems to remove se from polluted substrates via precipitation in sediments accumulation in plant tissues or volatilization terry et al.

2000. volatilized se has been modeled to precipitate after several days in the atmosphere and can thus constitute a se input in downwind areas blazina et al.

2014. selenium accumulation in vegetation constitutes a portal for se into the food chain and may also influ- ence se cycling winkel et al.

2015. when planning large-scale se phytotechnology projects ecological effects like these should be taken into consideration.se effects on ecological interactionsseveral ecological studies have investigated the effects of plant se accumulation on plant-herbivore plant-pollinator plant-plant and plant-microbe interactions for a review see el mehdawi and pilon-smits 2012. selenium-supplied plants were shown to be protected against a wide variety of generalist herbivores with different feeding modes in some cases already at tissue se levels below 50 mg se kg-1 dry weight dw freeman et al.

2007 2009 hanson et al.

2003 2004 quinn et al.

