reviewintrinsic maturational neonatal immune deficiencies and susceptibility to group b streptococcus infectionmichelle l. korira shannon d. manninga h. dele daviesbdepartment of microbiology and molecular genetics michigan state university east lansing michigan usaa department of pediatrics college of medicine university of nebraska medical center omaha nebraska usabsummary although a normal member of the gastrointestinal and vaginal microbi- ota group b streptococcus gbs can also occasionally be the cause of highly inva- sive neonatal disease and is an emerging pathogen in both elderly and immuno- compromised adults.

a comprehensive understanding of this interplay between gbs and the host immune system will aid in the development of new preventative measures and therapeutics.keywords group b streptococcus immunology inflammation preventionintroductionroup b streptococcus gbs streptococcus agalactiae commonly colonizes the human gastrointestinal andor genitourinary tracts in approximately 30 of healthy adults .

mlst uses the allelic profile of seven conserved genes in order to group gbs strains into sequence types sts which can be clustered into clonal complexes ccs .

1999. changing epidemi- ology of group b streptococcal colonization.

2002. group b streptococcus colonization in male and nonpregnant female university students a cross-sectional prevalence study.

2004. prevalence of group b streptococcus colonization and potential for transmission by casual contact in healthy young men and women.

1981. colonisa- tion of babies and their families by group b streptococci.

1983. isolation of group b streptococci from the proximal small intestine of adults.

2015. active bacterial core surveillance report emerging infections program network group b streptococcus.

2005. structural and genetic diversity of group b streptococcus capsular polysaccharides.

2003. multilocus sequence typing system for group b streptococcus.

2006. phylogenetic lineages of invasive and colonizing strains of serotype iii group b streptococci from neonates a multicenter prospective study.

.luan s granlund m sellin m lagergard t spratt bg norgren m. 2005. multilocus sequence typing of swedish invasive group b streptococcus isolates indicates a neonatally associated genetic lineage and capsule switching.

2009. multilocus sequence types associated with neonatal group b streptococcal sepsis and meningitis in canada.

.tazi a disson o bellais s bouaboud a dmytruk n dramsi s mistou m-y khun h mechler c tardieux i trieu-cuot p lecuit m poyart c. 2010. the surface protein hvga mediates group b streptococcus hypervirulence and meningeal tropism in neonates.

