direct url citations appear in the printed text and are provided in the html and pdf versions of this article on the journals web site .0195-9131185004-07470medicine  science in sports  exercisercopyright c 2017 by the american college of sports medicine doi 10.1249mss.0000000000001495despite the lack of research in humans data from our labo- ratory and others indicate that exercise training can significantly modulate the gut microbiota in animal models 4-6. moreover exercise-induced changes in the gut microbiota have been correlated with changes in host physiology including alter- ations in metabolism 7 immunity 5 and behavior 6. ex- ercise training also increases microbiota-derived short chain fatty acids scfa within the mouse gut 8. short-chain fatty acids are two- to six-carbon-long fatty acids which serve as an energy source for a variety of tissues and have been shown to reduce inflammation 9 improve insulin sensitivity 10 and alter central nervous system morphology 11.among humans estaki et al.

exercise training in mice has also been shown to limit gut barrier integrity disruptions and tissue inflammatory re- sponses induced by obesity offering evidence of a possible gut microbiota-mediated mechanism by which exercise im- proves outcomes associated with obesity 18. however con- sidering the wide-ranging effectiveness of exercise interventions in combating weight gain and obesity-associated comorbidities in humans 19 a more comprehensive investigation into the biological systems that are responsive to both obesity and ex- ercise training including the gut microbiota is needed.in this study we investigated whether 6 wk of aerobic exercise training alters gut microbial communities and fecal scfa in previously sedentary lean and obese adults with controls in place to ensure consistent dietary patterns.

interest- ingly and contrary to the notion that the scfa-producing capacity of the gut microbiota may be detrimental to obese individuals relative concentrations of scfa and bcoat were associated with lower body fat  higher lean mass and higher v. o2max within the obese group at baselinesee figures a-d supplemental digital content 6 scfafigure 3--a changes in fecal scfa concentrations i acetate c2 ii propionate c3 and iii butyrate c4 as a result of 6 wk of exercise training e0-e6 and returning to sedentary activity for 6 wk e6-w6 upper right graphs b changes in relative abundance of i bcoat and ii mmda as a result of 6 wk of exercise training e0-e6 and return to sedentary activity for 6 wk e6-w6 upper right graphs.

we investigated the effects of exercise training on fecal scfa concentrations and genes within the gut microbiota important for scfa production and observed that aerobic exercise increased fecal concentrations of the three most abundant scfa acetate c2 propionate c3 and butyrate c4.

of the genes within the gut microbiota involved in scfa production bcoat is one of two known butyrate- producing genes that contributes significantly to butyrate levels 29. functionally bcoat transfers a co-enzyme a group from butyrl coa to acetate which results in the formation of acetyl coa and butyrate two substrates used by tissues for macromol- ecule synthesis or energy production 30. methylmalonyl-coa decarboxylase meanwhile is an integral gene in the succinate pathway one of three propionate regulating pathways highly conserved within the mammalian gut microbiota 24. in light of the prominent roles of these genes in scfa production and their strong association with scfa-producing bacteria we hypothesize that exercise-induced increases in these func- tional genes may partially explain the parallel rise in fecal scfa.

thus further validating that gut microbiota composition is dependent on pa status.discussionin this study we provide evidence that 6 wk of aerobic ex- ercise training alters the gut microbiota and microbial-derived scfa in previously sedentary lean and obese adults without any changes to dietary patterns.

we hypothesized that exercise training would stimulate orthog- onal shifts in gut microbial communities dependent on body mass index bmi status and lead to increased fecal scfa levels as well as functional metabolic capacity for the gut microbiota to produce scfa.

physical activity status in humans correlates with microbiota composition how- ever the effects of endurance-based exercise training on the human gut microbiota have not been explored.address for correspondence jeffrey a. woods ph.d. 906s goodwin ave. 348 louise freer hall university of illinois at urbana-champaign urbana il 61801 e-mail submitted for publication october 2017. accepted for publication november 2017.supplemental digital content is available for this article.

we did however assess washout body composition toexercise training affects the gut microbiotamedicine  science in sports  exercised 755verify that physiological parameters reverted to preexercise levels after a return to sedentary activity.in summary these data indicate for the first time that exercise training can significantly modulate the composition and meta- bolic capacity of the human gut microbiota.

no differences in -diversity of the microbiota were observed between lean and obese participants at baseline see figure supplemental digital content 3 rarefaction -diversity plot p 9 0.05 or at any of remaining collection time points p 9 0.05 data not shown.exercise training increased fecal scfa concen- trations and gut microbiome scfa-producing ca- pacity depending on bmi status.

additionally we demonstrate that exercise-induced modulations of the gut microbiota and scfa were strongly associated with changes in body composition in lean participantsand v. o2max in obese participants highlighting the role of the gutmicrobiota in regulating physiological adaptations to exercise training.

the resulting factor component termed washlnfactor1 or washobfactor1 was then compared with pearson r correlations to the corresponding exercise factor component.754official journal of the american college of sports medicineexercise-induced increases in fecal scfa concentrations ob- served in this study corroborate data presented in rodent models 8 as well as a previous cross-sectional study in humans relat- ing fecal butyrate concentrations to v. o2max and muscle turnoverthe mechanisms responsible for exercise-induced in- creases in fecal scfa concentration is not yet clear but could involve increased production of scfa through endogenous metabolic input e.g.

lactate increased mixing of intestinal contents and bacterial fermentation of dietary fibers increased anaerobic fermentation due to colonic oxygen saturation or ph changes or reduced intestinal utilization and uptake of scfa 28. exercise-induced increases in fecal scfa may also be augmented by shifts in the gut microbiotas functional capacity to produce scfa.

moreover it is possible that these shifts in scfa genetic machinery may augment responses to other envi- ronmental cues within the gut including increased potential for dietary fiber fermentation ultimately leading to increased scfa production 31.exercise-induced increases in fecal bcoat and scfa levels also strongly paralleled improvements in body com- position including most notably increases in lean mass.

exercise alters gut microbiota composition and function in lean and obese humansjacob m. allen1 lucy j. mailing2 grace m. niemiro1 rachel moore1 marc d. cook3 bryan a. white4 hannah d. holscher125 and jeffrey a. woods121department of kinesiology and community health university of illinois at urbana-champaign urbana il 2division of nutritional sciences university of illinois at urbana-champaign urbana il 3department of human performance and leisure studies north carolina at state university greensboro nc 4department of animal sciences university of illinois at urbana-champaign urbana il 5department of food science and human nutrition university of illinois at urbana-champaign urbana ilabstractallen j. m. l. j. mailing g. m. niemiro r. moore m. d. cook b. a. white h. d. holscher and j. a. woods.exercise alters gut microbiota composition and function in lean and obese humans.

