good- quality sputum samples positive for p. aeruginosa obtained from exacerbations andor a stability period were available from 21 patients 38.9n  10 accounting for more than 90 of the ra in all cases figures were slightly higher in exacerbation samples though the difference did not reach statistical significance figure 2. ra of the pseudomonas genus was lower in exacerbation 13 iqr 0.9-62 than in stability samples median 53 iqr 14-72 although again this difference was not statistically significant figure 3.changes in bronchial microbiome according to pa biofilm-forming capacity bacterial a-diversity in sputum showed simi- lar figures in groups differentiated according topa biofilm-forming capacity when measured through the chao1 richness estimator and the shannon evenness index in both exacerbation and stability figure 4. similarly principal coor- dinate analysis with the bray-curtis b-diversity metric did not show differences in the microbial communities of the groups with similar results in exacerbation and stability samples adonis statistics p  0.05 figure 5. comparative analyses of bacterial ra during exacerbations and according to pa biofilm-forming capacity identified statistically significant differences in ras for a restricted number of bacteria but only in phyla and genera showing median ras below 1. the fusobacteria phylum and the fusobacterium and fusobacteriales genera were over-represented when p. aeruginosa showed high biofilm-forming capacity while unclas- sified s24-7 genus was over-represented inthe low-biofilm group supplementary table 2. similar results were found in stability sam- ples where the phyla spirochaetes and tm7 and the genera fusobacterium sphaerochaeta enterococcus and unclassified tm73 were over-represented in the pa-high biofilm-form- ing capacity group with median ras below 1 in all cases supplementary table 2. the genus fusobacterium was the only one that was over- represented in both exacerbation and stability samples when p. aeruginosa isolates showed high biofilm-forming capacity figure 6.bronchial microbiome during exacerbationsa change in the community composition during exacerbations was evaluated in 14 patients for whom a previous paired stability sample was avail- able to determine whether clinical status affectedfigure 1. quantitative pseudomonas aeruginosa culture results according to a clinical status andb biofilm-forming capacity.community structure.

in addition for investigations involving human subjects informed consent has been obtained from the participants involved.summary pointsbronchial colonization by pseudomonas aeruginosa is frequent in severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd.most prevalent phyla in the bronchial microbiome of severe copd patients are proteobacteria and firmicutes withpseudomonas and streptococcus as the most frequently detected genera.a- and b-diversity in sputum show similar figures in groups differentiated according to biofilm-forming capacity in both exacerbation and stability.comparative analyses of bacterial relative abundance according to biofilm-forming capacity identify statistically significant differences only for phyla and genera with median relative abundances below 1 with fusobacterium as the only genus over-represented in both exacerbation and stability in samples with high biofilm-forming capacity.a difference in the microbial community composition is identified in near three quarters of exacerbations with previous paired stability samples available with over-representations of the genera pseudomonas moraxella haemophilus streptococcus and corynebacterium that attained relative abundances over 50. these microorganisms are not identified by culture in one quarter of the cases.in a half of the exacerbations in severe copd patients with positive cultures for p. aeruginosa 16s rrna gene analyses show a low relative abundance of the pseudomonas genus which had not increased from their baseline in spite of the positive cultures for this microorganism.

culture-independent bronchial microbiome analyses are able to describe the complex polymicrobial community harbored in the bronchial tree of copd patients including biofilm-lodged flora 14 and this approach has confirmed a role for bacteria other than p. aeru ginosa in exacerbations in patients who show chronic colonization by this ppm 15. in the present study we characterize the microbiome in bronchial secretions from severe copd patients with positive cultures for p. aeruginosa first to determine their differences with regard to the ability of the strains recovered to form biofilms both during exacerbations and stability periods of the disease and second to identify genus that include potential pathogenic bacteria and were over-represented in exacerbations.methodsdesign  populationparticipants were selected from a hospital- based prospective cohort of copd patients regularly attending an outpatient respiratory clinic from 2010 onwards 16. patients in the cohort had scheduled visits every 3 months with unscheduled visits when exacerbations symptoms appeared.

the change was confirmed by bray-curtis distance metrics thyc distance and similar results were obtained in groups dif- ferentiated according to their biofilm-forming capability figure 7. these findings confirm that the microbiome differs in paired stability and exacerbation samples and that this difference is independent of the biofilm-forming capacity of the p. aeruginosa strains present in the sample.genera with ras over 50 in exacerbations which had increased over 20 from their sta- bility baseline values were observed in 10 out of the 14 patients for whom a paired stability sample was available 71.4. pseudomonas n  3 moraxella n  2 haemophilus n  1streptococcus n  3 and corynebacterium n  1 were the genera which were over-represented in these exacerbations and were considered as causal according to16s rrna gene results table 3.concordance between 16s rrna sequencing  conventional culturethe increases observed for specific genera when exacerbation symptoms appeared were paral- leled by the expected decreases of similar mag- nitude in the ra of predominant genera during stability mainly pseudomonas and streptococcus.

the most prevalent phyla in the bronchial microbiome of colonized patients in the present study werediscussionwe describe the bronchial microbiome of severe copd patients colonized by p. aeruginosa duringfigure 6. differences in the relative abundance of fusobacterium according to pa biofilm- forming capacity p  0.05.eh exacerbation with pa-high biofilm-forming capacity el exacerbation with pa-low biofilm- forming capacity ra relative abundancesh stability with pa-high biofilm-forming capacity sl stability with pa-low biofilm-forming capacity.proteobacteria and firmicutes and the most fre- quently detected genera were pseudomonas and streptococcus.

a  c exacerbation and b  d stability situations.eh exacerbation with pa-high biofilm-forming capacity el exacerbation with pa-low biofilm- forming capacity sh stability with pa-high biofilm-forming capacity sl stability with pa-low biofilm-forming capacity.figure 5. principal coordinate analysis with bray-curtis dissimilarity index.

patients with high comor- bidity charlson index 5 immunodeficiencies or cancer or those previously diagnosed with other chronic diseases such as asthma bronchi- ectasis or interstitial lung diseases were excluded from the study 17. acute episodes of increased dyspnea sputum production andor purulence appearing during follow-up and treated with antibiotics andor oral corticosteroids were considered as exacerbations 18. patients were included in the study if they provided goodquality sputum samples for culture both during exacerbations and periods of stability and if they presented chronic colonization by p. aeruginosa demonstrated by the recovery of this ppm from at least two of the sputum samples cultured.ethics statementwritten informed consent was obtained from all patients before participating in this study.

our resultsare consistent with previous data that analyzed paired samples obtained from individual copd patients and reported changes in their bron- chial microbiome during exacerbations 1549. however while huang and colleagues 49 pre- viously described a shift in community composi- tion toward the phylum proteobacteria millares and colleagues 15 reported the close similarity of the changes in the bronchial microbiome during exacerbations in severe copd patients colonized and noncolonized by p. aeruginosa with increases in the ras of specific genera part of the phyla proteobacteria firmicutes and actinobacteria in both groups rather than an over-representation of the pseudomonas genus.

all these findings not only suggest that p. aeruginosa needs to be targeted by antibiotic therapy when exacerbations appear in colonized copd patients as is currently pro- posed in guidelines 8 but also support the useof culture-independent techniques to promote changes in microbiological protocols as has been suggested elsewhere 3950. severe copd patients with chronic pa-infection have a worse prognosis than other copd patients in exacerbations and our results support the hypothesis that the acqui- sition of new pathogens or the increase in the bacterial loads of colonizing strains other thanp.

fusobacterium genus was over-represented in samples harboring pseudomonas strains with high biofilm-forming capacity in both exacerba- tion and stability samples.

functional char- acterization included forced spirometry and reversibility testing 19 and included bmi 20. forced vital capacity and fev1 were meas- ured with the same dry rolling seal spirometer sibelmed sibelgroup barcelona spain and expressed as absolute values ml and percent- ages of the reference values obtained from age- and height-adjusted selected volunteers from the province of barcelona 21. copd was diagnosed in accordance with the criteria of the global initiative for chronic obstructive lung disease gold 22. chest x-rays and blood tests were performed when exacerbation symp- toms appeared to rule out the presence of other significant acute respiratory disease.sputum collection microbiology processingspontaneous sputum samples were collected from each patient in exacerbations before the administration of antibiotic therapy and while clinically stable.

in addition to a p. aeruginosa a second ppm grew in half of the exacerbations and in a quarter of the stability samples table 2  supplementary table 1. p. aeruginosa loads in sputum in groups categorized according to the biofilm-forming capacity of the bacterial isolates pa-high  21 and pa-low  16 did not show statistically significant differences log10 value7.3 cfuml iqr 4.9-8.1 and 7.4 cfumliqr 6.6-8.3 respectively p  0.6 mann- whitney t-test figure 1b.bronchial microbiome16s rrna gene analyses showed a mean of 9.336 sd 3.068 sequences per sample after filtering which corresponded to 190 bacterial otus at an identity level of 97 median 50 otus iqr 36-76 per sample.

this gram-negative anaerobe is an emerging pathogen which is ubiquitous in the oral cavity 38 and has been reported in the bronchial tree of healthy sub- jects patients with asthma copd and cystic fibrosis with a potential impact on the evolu- tion of the disease 15283639-41. however dif- ferences in the microbiome composition related to the p. aeruginosa biofilm-forming capacity in the present study were only found for gen- era with ras below 1 while the main genera present in the sample showed similar figures in samples with pseudomonas strains with high and low biofilm-forming capacity.

there are up to 100 genes which have been related to biofilm forma- tion in vitro and the genetic basis of bacterialbiofilm-forming capacity is of main interest both during stability and when exacerbations appear in well-characterized copd patients.

the clinical significance of these changes in the microbiome composition is unknown but any over-representation of the bacterial genera is likely to modify the func- tional behavior of other microorganisms present through bacterial interactions 42. fusobacterium has the capacity to co-aggregate with a wide range of colonizing microorganisms 43 and strains of this genus are known to produce autoinducer 2 ai-2 3744. p. aeruginosa is not affected by ai-2 when growing planktonically but virulence genes and biofilm-forming capacity of this ppm were upregulated in the presence of this media- tor in a dose-dependent manner 3745 in a rat model of p. aeruginosa and streptococcus coinfec- tion 37. fusobacterium also increases endothelial permeability allowing bacterial penetration 38 and via this effect a synergy with p. aeruginosa has been demonstrated in vivo 46.in spite of the fact that a-diversity in sputum did not change in exacerbations in the present study acute impairments of severe copd par- ticipants were associated with changes in spe- cific genera of the respiratory microbiome for most patients when compared with their paired baseline sample.

