in the absence of nutrition bacterial growth was significantly greater on the hyaluronic acid filler sample com- pared with the poly-l-lactic acid polyacrylamide gel and control p  0.05. bacterial growth on poly-l-lactic acid filler samples was greater than that of polyacrylamide gel and control p  0.05. bacterial growth on polyacrylamide gel filler sam- ples was not different from the control substrate.when extra nutrition was added bacterial growth increased between 104 and 108 times on all three fillers and the rat-tail collagen p  0.001 fig.

3.biofilm characteristics of clinical samplessix tissue specimens were obtained from five patients with evidence of chronic granulomatous inflammation a mean of 7 years after the first injec- tion with a variety of fillers including dermalive hyaluronic acid combined with acrylic hydrogel dermatch sarl paris france polyacrylamide aquamid contura seoborg denmark poly- l-lactic acid sculptra galderma lausanne swit- zerland and hyaluronic acid juvederm volumafig.

this is consistent with the reported literature where poly-l-lactic acid has not been associated with late-onset granuloma formation as frequently as compared with hyaluronic acid or polyacrylamide gel.113536 it could be that poly-l-lac- tic acid is less likely to support biofilm because of its biocompatibility and degradation profile.

these clinical samples were examined for the presence of biofilm and the bacterial community species profile microbiome was characterized.materials and methodsfiller materialsthree filler materials were included in the in vitro study hyaluronic acid polyacrylamide gel and poly-l-lactic acid valeant pharmaceuticals international inc. laval quebec canada.in vitro modelthe fillers were tested for their ability to pro- mote biofilm formation in the presence or absence of additional nutrition to simulate in vivo condi- tions representing the interface between filler and tissue access to nutrition and filler center no nutrition.

a 0.2-ml aliquot of each filler hyaluronic acid polyacrylamide gel and poly-l-lactic acid or 100 ul of phosphate-buffered saline control was deposited onto a glass cou- pon with collagen framework and placed onto six- well tissue culture plates.614each filler was then inoculated with 0.1 ml of culture containing 103 colony-forming units ml of s. epidermidis and the plates were incubated for 16 hours at 37degc.

hyaluronic acid poly-l-lactic acid and polyacrylamide gel sup- ported the growth of s. epidermidis in the presence and absence of tryptic soy broth.

1. in the presence of nutrition polyacryl- amide gel supported significantly more growth than either poly-l-lactic acid hyaluronic acid orfig.

bars  sd.615plastic and reconstructive surgery  march 2017rat tail collagen p  0.05. hyaluronic acid had significantly more growth than poly-l-lactic acid p  0.05 but not more than the rat-tail collagen.

fewer bacteria grew on poly-l-lactic acid in the presence of nutrition than on the rat-tail collagen but this was not significant.scanning electron microscopy visually con- firmed the presence of biofilm on inoculated hyal- uronic acid specimens.

these data demonstrate that hyaluronic acid poly-l-lactic acid and polyacrylamide gel all support the growth of bacteria in vitro in the absence of additional nutri- tion.

lactic acid which may act to lower the ph of the local environment thereby limiting survival of bacteria.38 although hyaluronic acid has a rapid degradation profile similar to thatfig.

alhede et al.40 have reported an interesting murine study showing that pseudomo- nas staphylococcus and propionibacterium were all cultured following administration of hyaluronic acid polyacrylamide gel and poly-l-lactic acid and calcium hydroxyapatite microspheres into the dermal pocket.

f.r.a.c.s.sydney new south wales and melbourne victoria australiaillers for the soft-tissue augmentation of scars lipoatrophy and the aging face are widely used in dermatology plastic surgery and aesthetic medicine.1 the use of autogenous and biological materials quickly gave way to the devel- opment of synthetic and ultimately biologically analogous materials such as hyaluronic acid and poly-l-lactic acid.2 the american society of plastic surgeons procedural statistics show a 6 percent increase in soft-tissue injectable use from 2.30 mil- lion in 2014 to 2.44 million in 2015.3 mirroring the increasing numbers of patients undergoing treatment has been the steady rise of long-lasting adverse reactions to soft-tissue fillers.4 recent datafrom the surgical infection research group faculty of med- icine and health sciences macquarie university and the university of melbourne.received for publication april 6 2016 accepted july 25 2016. copyright c 2017 by the american society of plastic surgeonsdoi 10.1097prs.0000000000003067have shown a three-fold rise in adverse reactions from 2008 to 2011 compared with 2005 to 2007.5 serious adverse events previously reported include the development of fistulae sensory dysfunction embolization necrosis and chronic infection.6-8 although these are uncommon some long-term follow-up studies have shown that there are less seri- ous complications related to chronic nodule for- mation and inflammation that can occur in up to 18 percent of patients.19-12 the number of patients undergoing injectable soft-tissue fillers is not pub- licly available.

a total of 1 ml of hyaluronic acid filler was then injected through the inoculated glove area into the underlying agar using a 23-gauge hypo- dermic needle.

bacteria were seen within the fenestrations of the hyaluronic acid filler.

