the turnover time for mucus is 6 h for mucus in goblet cells and as little as a single hour for the inner mucus layer in thedistal colon 59. the replication time of two common gut sym- bionts b. thetaiotaomicron and escherichia coli has been estimated at 3 h in the mucus layer and 3-8 h in colonic contents 29. thus these and other gut bacterial taxa may carry out only a few rounds of cell division within the mucus layer before being shed along with mucus into the lumen.

adhesion to the epithelium could support persistence of microbes for a longer time but epithelial cells are continuously discarded with the exception of paneth cells the other three mouse gut epithelial lineages turn over every 3-5 d 60-64. microbes in the lumen also have limited opportunity for replication before being expelled as the contents of the gut tra- verse the mouse intestine in 4-6 h 65-67. we hypothesize that through rapid turnover and mixing of the mucus layer the epi- thelium and the gut contents as a whole the mammalian host acts to diminish the ability of the microbiota to establish spatially segregated communities or sizeable single-taxon agglomerations both in the lumen and adjacent to the mucosa.

diffusion is unlikely to be a significant force within the viscous gel of the mucus layer 29 although there is little information about how foraging of mucus glycans by resident microbes affects mucus viscosity.

by bioreactor we mean an environment constructed to harbor microbes and harness their metabolism of available nutrients where the degree of spatial homogenization of com- munity members is a manifestation of a complex dynamic involving many factors including flux of mucus and epithelial cells into the lumen the affinities of community members for these host con- stituents and food particles cooperativecompetitive attractive repulsive interactions between microorganisms and peristaltic flow of bulk material through the lumen.one might have expected a priori that differences between taxa in their binding affinities for substrates such as mucus or food particles combined with more rapid replication in a preferred microhabitat would lead to localized clonal expansion.

among the possible explanations for these observed distributional differences are cooperative attractive versus competitive re- pulsive interactions between taxa or an indirect effect of binding or proliferation of taxa in distinct microenvironments.to further investigate factors underlying differences in taxon density and distribution we imaged the distribution of bacteria mucus and food in additional cross-sections using the eub338bacterial probe in conjunction with wga and a mouse colonic mucin antibody anti-mcm to localize mucus fig.

in the gut microbes can adhere to the epithelium and mucins 19-21 these components of the ecosystem are arranged nonrandomly in ways that could lead to spatial structuring of adherent community members 22 23. similarly partially digested food particles in the lumen could serve as sites of attachment 24-28. differential replication of a microbe based on its localization in the mucus layer or the lumen 29 could itself generate a spatially structured microbial consortium or could amplify differences established by differential adherence.the lumen of the gut is considered to be a compartment inhabited by a microbiota distinct from that of the mucus layer 23 29-33. this view is largely based on studies that have com- pared mucosal samples to feces 30 34-36. in contrast studies that have directly compared mucosa-associated communities with adjacent luminal contents have generally shown only modest dif- ferences in the relative proportions of taxa 29 33 37-39 al- though exceptions occur.

the most comprehensive analysis to date used gno- tobiotic mice colonized with a human fecal community and fluorescence in situ hybridization fish with probes having specificities that ranged from phylum level to genus level 5. other studies have used fish antibody staining or labeling of polysaccharides to investigate the distribution of particular taxa within the microbiota or of the microbiota as a whole in the presence of host perturbations 38 40-48. using microbes ge- netically engineered to express distinct combinations of two fluo- rescent proteins whitaker et al.

gut microbes 1254-268.naughton ja et al.

s5 and a qualitative inspection of the images revealed dense concentrations of mucus in regions corresponding to areas of high bacterial density as well as in goblet cells fig.

s4.e9110  mark welch et al.community positioned in the 5- to 10-mm region closest to host cells fig.

methanogenic archaeons and eukaryotes could demonstrate more pronounced differences in their replication rates and stronger spatial associa- tions with one another or with food particles host cells mucus or other features of the gut habitat.the observed spatial arrangement differs dramatically from the highly ordered and more clustered arrangements visible in human dental plaque 68. these dissimilarities could reflect a number of factors including differences in flow rates in the two ecosystems and the absence of a surface in the gut to which microbes can stably adhere.

to assess whether the spatial arrangement of microbes at mi- crometer scales differed relative to the visible landmarks of the epithelial border and large food particles we carried out an analysis of spatial arrangement using the method of lineardipoles as implemented in daime 57. linear dipole analysis calculates a pair cross-correlation function for two categories of objects by estimating the probability normalized to their density in the image that the ends of a line segment of a given length will touch both of them.linear dipole analysis demonstrated a tendency of microbes to be in low abundance near crypts and invaginations in the mu- cosal epithelium fig.

these results are consistent with the notion that dense concentrations of mucus support high bacterial den- sity both in the loose mucus layer at the mucosal border and in the interior of the lumen.discussionwe investigated the spatial arrangement of members of a de- fined artificial 15-member human gut microbiota in the proximal colon of gnotobiotic mice at macroscale mesoscale and micro- meter scale.

in addi- tion the relative effects of propulsive contractions nonpropulsive mixing andor the rate of renewal of the mucus layer can be ex- plored using gnotobiotic animals with mutations that affect their gut motility andor the composition of their mucus e.g.

large autofluorescent particles by con- trast generally occupied regions in which bacteria were not abundant although small autofluorescent particles were mixed with mucus and bacteria even in regions of highest bacterial density fig.

