perfringens group changes due to RAF feeding were different between rats fed soy protein and rats fed other proteins.The DGGE and PCoA analyses clearly demon- strated the effects of RAF on caecum microbiota soy protein-fed meat protein-fed and fish protein-fed rats formed the same group if they were given RAF  and  bands for uncultured bacterium bands 6 and 8 disappeared whereas those for Bifidobacterium pseudolongum band 9 and Ruminococcus sp.

p  .05 p  .01.marked increase of caecum IgA concentration was seen in rats fed soy and RAF in combination inter- action of protein sources and RAF was not significant p 14 .08.

RAF feeding increased the acetic acid and propionic acid concentrations in the caecum.Populations of total bacteria in the caecum were1012-13 copiesg regardless of the dietary proteins con- sumed and a small reduction was seen when RAF was fed to rats .

The increases in pro- pionic acid concentration caused by soy protein and RAF are difficult to explain but the amounts of increase caused by RAF were lower than those by acetic acid.

However the data for bacterial populations did not account for the changes in caecum IgA concentration hence further investigation is necessary to clarify the underlying mechanisms.The finding that total bacterial population was low- ered by RAF was puzzling since SCFA concentrations were increased in rats given RAF.

However solv- ent-extracted soybean meal may retain RAF that was originally present in the actual soybean hence theirdata are difficult to compare with our present ones derived from soy protein isolate which does not con- tain RAF.

Although our data showed no changes in the caecum concentra- tion of butyric acid associated with RAF further research is necessary to evaluate the effect of RAF onF.

compared with those of meat and RAF and fish and RAF.

by RAF was seen only for soy protein-fed rats whereas the reduction of C. perfringens group by RAF was shown in meat and fish protein-fed rats.

Significant interactions between proteins and RAF were observed for Lactobacillus spp.

