we conducted a systematic search on pubmed and scopus database using the following keywords 'escherichia coli'mesh or escherichia coli and adherent and 'inflammatory bowel diseases'mesh or inflammatory bowel diseases or ibd or inflammatory bowel disease or ulcerative colitis or crohn disease or crohns disease or crohn's disease or crohn's enteritis or regional enteritis or granulomatous enteritis or ileocolitis or gran- ulomatous colitis or terminal ileitis or regional ileitides or regional ileitis.

the pathogenesis of cd and uc is likely multifactorial and includes genetic susceptibility factors priming by the enteric microbiota and immune-mediated intestinal injury.intestinal microbiome dysbiosis character- ised by an increase in the number of mucosa-as- sociated bacteria and a reduction in the overall biodiversity has been consistently described in patients with ibd.there is a decrease in bene- ficial bacteria such as those of the firmicutes phylumand an increase in certain members of enterobacteriaceae thought to play a pathogenic role in disease development.although no single causative microorganism has been identified many studies have reported the potential involvement of microbial pathogens mycobacterium avium para- tuberculosis clostridium difficile helico- bacter speciescampylobacter speciesand functionally altered commensal bacteria invasive escherichia coli enterotoxigenic bacteroides fragilis in disease pathogenesis.

we also explore the existing data on the prevalence of aiec in patients with crohn's disease and uc and the association between the presence of aiec and disease location activity and postoperative recurrence.

the only way toccd colonic crohn's disease cd crohn's disease icd ileal crohn's disease.efficiently identify aiec strains is by performing assays on the interaction between bacteria and intestinal cells.

studies have reported differences in the genetic susceptibility and immune response of the enteric microflora based on disease location implying that the composition and distribution of the mucosal microbiota may also vary according to disease phenotype.

several studies showed an increased abundance of e coli in active uc lesions compared with inactive mucosa or in hc.petersen et alreported a correlation between the presence of e coli from phylogenetic group b2 with at least one adhesion-related gene and increased disease activity in patients with uc 86 in active vs 13 in inactive disease.

intestinal permeability and its association with the patient and disease characteristics in crohn's disease.

globalisation of inflammatory bowel disease perspectives from the evolution of inflammatory bowel disease in the uk and china.

additionally immunotherapy to restore autophagy could induce the remis- sion of active disease or prevent relapse in the postoperative setting.therapeutic interventions to modulate the microbiota after an episode of acute infectious gastroenteritis in aiec-pos- itive individuals may also be important to reduce the risk of cd development.figure 2 therapeutic strategies targeting adherent-invasive escherichia coli aiec.dietary interventionsamong environmental factors vitamin d plays a critical role in mucosal barrier homeostasis by preserving the integrity of junction complexes.in a recent study caco-2-bbe cells incubated with 125oh2 vitamin d3 were protected against aiec-induced disrup- tion of transepithelial electrical resistance and tight junction protein redistribution.

paratuberculosis and escherichia coli in blood samples from patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

culture independent analysis of ileal mucosa reveals a selective increase in invasive escherichia coli of novel phylogeny relative to depletion of clostridiales in crohn's disease involving the ileum.

high prevalence of adherent- invasive escherichia coli associated with ileal mucosa in crohn's disease.

the role of escherichia coli in inflammatory bowel disease.

presence of adherent escherichia coli strains in ileal mucosa of patients with crohn's disease.

colonic mucosa-associated diffusely adherent afac escherichia coli expressing lpfa and pks are increased in inflammatory bowel disease and colon cancer.

