however we lack an understanding of how protist communities are structured how targeted soil management can alter protist communities how such changes might affect protist functioning and how they are in turn linked to their potential bacterial and fungal prey.

organic fertilizer-treated soil contained a fundamen- tally different protist community structure comparedfigure 1 protist community changes induced by fertilizations.

a unifrac-weighted principle coordinate analysis pcoa of soil protist community in the four fertilizer treatments and b relative abundance of five main protist taxonomic groups stramenopiles alveolata rhizaria excavata and amoebozoa with coarse phylogenetic affinities in the four fertilizer treatments.

as a result protist richness observed otus diversity phylogenetic and shannon and evenness shannon were lower in the ofb and oft treatments as compared with the of treatment supplementary figure 1. these results suggest that the added microbes differentiallyaffected specific protist taxonomic groups  possibly by producing inhibitory compounds.

members of this genus are known to produce a broad range of bioactive secondary metabolites that can inhibit soil organisms .changes in protist taxonomic community compo- sitions induced by fertilizer regime subsequently resulted in shifts in the relative proportion of protist functional groups fi 2. several potentiallyfigure 2 protists form a functional and dynamic hub in the soil microbiome induced by fertilizations.

soil amendments strongly impacted protist communities 1-year after application with addition of organic material and beneficial microbes leading to profound changes of protist community composition and eventually function.

the isme journal 2018 12 634-638c 2018 international society for microbial ecology all rights reserved 1751-736218short communicationsoil protist communities form a dynamic hub in the soil microbiomewu xiong123 alexandre jousset12 sai guo1 ida karlsson24 qingyun zhao3 huasong wu3 george a kowalchuk2 qirong shen1 rong li1 and stefan geisen561jiangsu provincial key lab for organic solid waste utilization national engineering research center for organic-based fertilizers jiangsu collaborative innovation center for solid organic waste resource utilization nanjing agricultural university nanjing china 2ecology and biodiversity group department of biology institute of environmental biology utrecht university utrecht netherlands 3spice and beverage research institute chinese academy of tropical agricultural science wanning hainan china 4department of forest mycology and plant pathology swedish university of agricultural sciences uppsala sweden 5department of terrestrial ecology netherlands institute for ecology nioo-knaw wageningen netherlands and 6laboratory of nematology wageningen university wageningen netherlandssoil microbes are essential for soil fertility.

here we investigated how soil amendments affect protist communities and inferred potential interactions with bacteria and fungi.

specific fertilization treatments impacted both the structure and function of protist communities.

the addition of individual biocontrol bacteria and fungi further altered the soil protist community composition and eventually function.

network analysis integrating protist bacterial and fungal community data placed protists as a central hub in the soil microbiome linking diverse bacterial and fungal populations.

protists are among the main consumers of soil bacteria and fungi but also algae and nematodes b protist activity directly increases plant performance by enhancing the microbial loop and stimulating plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria .

further soil protist communities encompass a range of plant- and animal-pathogenic species .

e-mail received 13 april 2017 revised 28 august 2017 accepted5 september 2017 published online 13 october 2017to study if these biocontrol agents also impact protist communities and supplementary information for additional details.protist communities differed significantly between all treatments one-year post application.

different letters above the bars indicate a significant difference at the 0.05 probability level according to the tukey's test.with the chemical fertilizer cf treatment unifrac- weighted and -unweighted pcoa  supplementary figure 2 rda supplementary figure 6 which is in line with former studies organic fertilizer of amendment enhanced the relative abundance of the most abundant protist taxonomic groups that is stramenopiles alveolata rhizaria excavata and amoebozoa 1b most of which are predators of other microbes.

