the ph after 7-day aerobic exposure was similar to day 0 silage but increased p  0.001 after 14 days of aerobic exposure .table 2 chemical composition fermentation products and mycotoxin concentration of purple prairie clover ensiled without or with polyethylene glycol in terminal silage and after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposurechemical composition gkg dmavalues  mean - standard error.bnd not detectable.cminor vfa is isobutyric acid  valeric acid  isovaleric acid  caproic acid.fig 1 temperature of purple prairie clover ensiled without control or with polyethylene glycol ppc-p in terminal silage day 0 and after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposure.

the bacterial communities assessed using the weighted unifrac distances appeared to be influenced by time  and peg treatment  after aerobic exposure p  0.001. a clear separation between control and peg treatments was observed after 7 days of aerobic exposure although the bacterial sequences obtained after 14 days of aerobic exposure tended to cluster together and  p  0.05. in addition the heatmap of bacterial taxon abundance showed that the control silage had bacterial populations that were obviously distinct from those of the peg-treated silage either at day 7 or day 14 of aerobic exposure fig.

in addition when the structure of bacterial communities was assessed using weighted unifrac distance a clear distinc- tion between bacterial communities in the peg-treated and control silages on day 0 was noted as the plots cluster separately  p  0.001 r  0.355. moreover thetable 3 abundances of the 15 most relatively abundant bacterial genera in purple prairie clover ensiled without or with polyethylene glycol in terminal silage and after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposuretable 4 abundances of the 15 most relatively abundant fungal genera in purple prairie clover ensiled without or with polyethylene glycol in terminal silage and after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposurefig 3 alpha diversity of bacterial communities in purple prairie clover ensiled without control or with polyethylene glycol ppc-p in terminal silage day 0 and after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposure.

moreover the addition of peg had a greater impact on diversity than the duration of aerobic exposure as the principal-coordinate analysis pcoa plots were not clustered separately p  0.05 between days 7 and 14 of aerobic exposure .fig 5 alpha diversity of fungal communities in purple prairie clover ensiled without control or with polyethylene glycol ppc-p in terminal silage day 0 and after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposure.

although the populations of most microorganisms in both silages increased upon aerobic exposure as reflected by the real-time pcr results the extent of the increase was greater for peg-treated than for control silages at day 7 of the aerobic exposure indicating that the slower growth of bacteria in control than in peg-treated silages after aerobic exposure is either from the carryover inhibitory effect of ct on bacterial growth during ensiling or ppc ct in exposed silage still exhibit antibacterial effect or both.

the greater extent of the increase of lactobacillus in control than in peg-treated silages at the first 7-day aerobic exposure suggested that species in this genus likely proliferated faster than those in peg-treated silage at the initial aerobic exposure which may indicate that the action of ppc ct at the concentration used in this study on these species during ensiling was bacteriostatic which might have been reversed under aerobic conditions.

the addition of peg de- creased p  0.01 bacterial diversity during both ensiling and aerobic exposure whereas it increased p  0.05 fungal diversity during aerobic exposure.

the rrna copies associated with the majority of microbes increased p  0.001 during aerobic exposure with the exception of copy numbers of lactobacillus which declined p  0.001 from day 7 to day 14 of aerobic exposure .

after 14 days of aerobic exposure bacillusfig 2 copy numbers of 16s rrna gene of total bacteria a and lactobacillus b 26s rrna gene of yeasts c and 18s rrna gene of fungi d. purple prairie clover was ensiled without control or with polyethylene glycol ppc-p in terminal silage day 0 and after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposure.

noticeably the abundance of the majority bacteria was decreased p  0.001 over 14 days of aerobic exposure.the key diversity indices of bacteria showed that chao 1 richness was lower p  0.05 in peg-treated silage than in control silage after 7 and 14 days of aerobic exposure  and the same trend was also observed for number of otus and ace index.

after 14 days of aerobic exposure compared to those in the control silage.similar to the bacterial diversity the total observed number of otus and the key diversity measures showed that chao 1 richness ace and shannon indices for fungi were all lower p  0.05 in peg-treated silage than in control silage after aerobic exposure .

once minisilos were opened the growth of aerobic microbes resulted in increases in both temperature and ph a response that has been well established upon aerobic exposure of silage.

the delayed increase in temperature for control silage compared to that in peg-treated silage after aerobic exposure indicates that biologically active ct improved aerobic stability.

in contrast don and ota concentrations markedly increased after 14 days of aerobic exposure even though the increase in yeast and mold populations was similar to that which occurred from day 0 to day 7. this may indicate that mycotoxins in silage are mainly produced by the aerobic microbes associated with spoilage.

the significant increase in abundance of bacillales from day 7 to day 14 of aerobic exposure was concomitant with the deterioration of silage after 7 days of aerobic exposure.

