the most important are the ones related to myostatin and insulin-like growth factor-1 igf-1 which participate in the phosphoinositide 3-kinase pi3kaktmammalian target of rapamycin mtor signaling pathway 56.in experimental models of liver cirrhosis myostatin ex- pression was increased and associated with loss of skeletal muscle mass and impaired satellite cells function 57 58. a myostatin-related impairment of muscle mass has been pro- posed to act through a decreased phosphorylation of mtor and its downstream targets 59 the inhibition of upstream mtor regulators 60 61 and the activation of ubiquitin- proteasome mediated proteolysis and lysosomal autophagy 62 63. on the other hand hyperammoniemia which is a common complication of liver disease seems to be the main trigger for autophagy and the up-regulation of myostatin signaling pathway 64 65.igf-1 stimulates skeletal muscle protein synthesis and satellite cells proliferation through the activation of akt 66- 68. in cirrhotic patients igf-1 production is reduced and igf-1 levels are inversely correlated with the severity of liver disease defined according to child-pugh and model for end-stage liver disease meld scores 69-72.also other systemic hormonal alterations associated with liver cirrhosis may contribute to the loss of muscle mass and to the development of sarcopenia.testosterone increases protein synthesis via cytosolic re- ceptors and testosterone deficiency reduces igf-1 rna transcription inhibiting akt activation 73 74. decreased levels of testosterone have been found in about 90 of men affected by liver cirrhosis in a proportion dependent on the impairment of liver function 75-77. similarly to what is observed in conditions of hypogonadism this may contribute to the loss of anabolic stimulation on the skeletal muscle.vitamin d has both direct and indirect effects on muscle health being involved in calcium handling protein synthesis stimulation in muscle 78-80 and the modulation of calcium and phosphorus plasmatic levels 81. vitamin d receptors vdrs have been isolated from skeletal muscle cells and vitamin d signaling has been hypothesized to have a direct influence on both myogenesis and the development of sarco- penia 82-85. indeed vdrs activation increases protein synthesis 86 87 and seems to be involved in other cellular functions not yet elucidated 88-94. vitamin d deficiency has been reported in patients with liver cirrhosis and has been correlated with disease severity and mortality 95-99. lower vitamin d levels have been found in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld and sarcopenia in comparison with non-sarcopenic controls 100 suggesting a potential influence of vitamin d deficiency in the pathogene- sis of sarcopenia in patients with liver disease.finally a high prevalence of insulin resistance has been reported in cirrhotic patients and liver cirrhosis has been recognized as a diabetogenic risk factor 101-106. insulin a key factor in the regulation of substrates metabolism energy storage and protein synthesis 107 could participate in the development of sarcopenia in liver cirrhotic patients.sarcopenia and liver disease etiologyalcohol-related liver diseasealcohol consumption represents a major health problem worldwide and alcohol-related liver cirrhosis accounts for one third of liver transplants in europe 108. chronic my- opathy associated with alcohol consumption affects 40-60 of abusers and is characterized by muscle atrophy and weakness affecting predominantly proximal muscles 109. ethanol influences protein synthesis through several path- ways including the inhibition of mtor and igf-1 signaling 110 the increase in myostatin release the reduction of vi- tamin d circulating levels 111 112 and the stimulation of protein catabolism via the ubiquitin-proteasome system 113 114. alcohol and acetaldehyde can also impair muscle fi- bers function by generating protein adducts with muscle membranes 115.non-alcoholic fatty liveralthough advanced liver disease is generally associated with the loss of muscle mass the growing epidemiology of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis nash has recently changed this paradigm.

weight gain and muscle loss often coexist in these patients and recent data have suggested that muscle wasting can precede the development of cirrhosis and evolve together with liver impairment 116. sarcopenic obesity has been reported in about 42 of patients with nash awaiting liver transplantation lt 117. nafld nash and sarcopenia share several features such as chronic inflammation oxida- tive stress hormonal alterations and decreased physical ac- tivity 118-122. most of the cytokines found increased in patients with nafld and nash are known to favor protein catabolism 123 124. also insulin deficiency and resistance are common features of nafld and nash resulting in loss of muscle proteins synthesis.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in current protein and peptide science  april 2017doi 10.21741389203718666170428121647citations2reads1322 authorsagostino gemelli hospital - rome - italy165 publications 858 citationsuniversita' cattolica del sacro cuore-fondazione policlinico gemelli irccs...1502 publications 23568 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectstherapy experiences and preferences among patients with anemia results of a cross-sectional survey among italian patients with inflammatory bowel disease h. pylori and axtragastric manifestations all content following this page was uploaded by on 21 january 2018.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.current protein and peptide science 2017 18 1-111 review articlesarcopenia in patients with advanced liver diseasefrancesca romana ponziani and antonio gasbarriniinternal medicine and gastroenterology agostino gemelli hospital rome - italya r t i c l e h i s t o r yreceived september 28 2016revised october 25 2016accepted october 26 2016doi 10.21741389203718666170428121647abstract sarcopenia is the loss of muscle mass and function affecting up to 70 of patients with ad- vanced liver disease.

therefore sarcopenia is particularly im- portant in stratifying the prognosis of patients with low meld scores being an additional tool in the identification of cirrhotic patients with increased risk of mortality.the association between nutritional status and poor out- come or the occurrence of complications after liver trans- plantation has been confirmed by several published studies 163-169.psoas area has been reported to be a strong predictor of post-liver transplant mortality with 1- and 3-year survival rates ranging from 49.7 to 87 in the sarcopenic groupand from 26.4 to 77.2 in non-sarcopenic patients respec- tively 5. psoas muscle index is a predictor of mortality after living donor liver transplantation too 170.finally a prolonged post-liver transplant hospital stay and an increased risk of infections have been observed in sarcopenic patients 171 172.interestingly liver transplantion has been shown to exert beneficial effects on sarcopenia.

based on the current understanding a group of authors has recently defined sarcopenia as the reduction in muscle mass and strength associated with adipopenia as part of a poor nutritional status in cirrhotic patients 15. despite such defi- nition most of the studies published to date on cirrhotic pa- tients have adopted only skeletal muscle mass measurement for the diagnosis of sarcopenia.here we summarize the evidence on the association of sarcopenia with advanced liver disease and propose a prog- nostic role for sarcopenia in this category of patients.address correspondence to this author at the largo a. gemelli 8 - 00168 - rome italy tel 393471227242 e-mail sarcopenia and liver cirrhosis a com- plex multifactorial associationmetabolic dysfunction and nutrients deficiencyliver plays a crucial role in the regulation of nutritional status and energy balance 16-19. the metabolic potential of cirrhotic patients is similar to that of the fasting state due to the scarce availability of ready-to-use glucose from glyco- gen and characterized by the use of alternative sources of energy such as proteins and lipids fig.

indeed a study carried out in a series of liver transplanted patients who were sarcopenic before transplant a skeletal muscle improvement was re- ported in 55 of subjects 173.a lower survival was also reported for sarcopenic cir- rhotic patients affected by hepatocellular carcinoma hcc 16 months compared to 28 months for non-sarcopenic sub- jects 174. moreover in patients with hcc sarcopenia can influence tumor treatment outcome.

j. cardiol.2002 851 83-87.tatsunori hanai t. shiraki m. ohnishi s. miyazaki t. ideta t. kochi t. imai k. suetsugu a. takai k. moriwaki h. shimizu m. rapid skeletal muscle wasting predicts worse survival in patients with liver cirrhosis.

2012 1840 5759-5770.hayashi f. matsumoto y. momoki c. yuikawa m. okada g. hamakawa e. kawamura e. hagihara a. toyama m. fu- jii h. kobayashi s. iwai s. morikawa h. enomoto m. tamori a. kawada n. habu d. physical inactivity and insuffi- cient dietary intake are associated with the frequency of sarcopenia in patients with compensated viral liver cirrhosis.

interestingly a role of intestinal bacteria in maintaining muscle health has been hypothesized through the translocation of bacteria and bacterial products into the bloodstream triggering the production of muscle wasting-related cytokines.sarcopenia is associated with severe outcomes in patients with liver cirrhosis mostly due to the incidence of disease complications.

the gastrointestinal dysfunction of cirrhotic patients results in inadequate nutrients intake and is responsible for muscle weakness thus limiting physical exercise and perpetuating the reduction of muscle mass.

finally the systemic pro-inflammatory status triggered by the alteration of the gut microbiota and the increased intestinal permeability may also contrib- ute to the pathogenesis of cirrhosis-associated sarcopenia.found in muscle of cirrhotic patients 26 was shown to in- volve also the whole body protein turnover 27-29.as a consequence of the metabolic impairment associated with liver cirrhosis fatty acids oxidation ketogenesis and gluconeogenesis are enhanced and proteinsamino acids me- tabolism is altered with a continuous breakdown of adipose and muscle tissue components not counteracted by oral feeding fig.

how-ever recommendations about exercising in decompensated cirrhotic patients need a careful evaluation because in condi- tion of nutrients deficiency physical activity may cause pro- tein catabolism and loss of muscle mass as well as the wors- ening of renal function 55.hormonal alterationsskeletal muscle growth is regulated by several hormonal stimuli.

furthermore sarcopenia may represent an important prognostic factor for pa- tients with hepatocellular carcinoma and for those undergoing liver transplantation and can be considered a useful additional tool in the global assessment of patients with advanced liver disease.keywords sarcopenia liver cirrhosis liver disease gut microbiota malnutrition liver transplantation intestinal permeability.introductionsarcopenia is a syndrome characterized by loss of muscle mass and function often associated with physical disability poor quality of life and increased mortality 1. several con- ditions such as nutrients deficiency metabolic dysfunction chronic inflammation inactivity and hormonal alterations are involved in the development of sarcopenia 2. although these mechanisms have been well established in the elderly sarcopenia can also be associated with pathological condi- tions such as liver cirrhosis.among cirrhotic patients the prevalence of sarcopenia is estimated to range from 20 to 70 3-14.however there is no consensus on the proper definition of sarcopenia in the cirrhotic patient leading to a wide het- erogeneity in the reported prevalence of this condition.

161 reporting a higher frequency of overt or minimal hepatic encephalopathy episodes at admission or in the last 12 months among hospi- talized sarcopenic cirrhotic patients.among liver transplant candidates sarcopenia seems to be a good predictor of waiting list mortality 162. instead the tools used to assess nutritional status such as body mass index bmi or subjective global assessment sga lack of prognostic significance 14. in particular in the pre-meld score era when less strict criteria were adopted for patients selection 8 increased risk of death per unit decrease in transversal psoas muscle thickness per height was observed increasing to 14 in the meld era when patients with more severe liver impairment received liver transplant.

1999 193 223-248.fujita j. tsujinaka t. ebisui c. yano m. shiozaki h. ka- tsume a. ohsugi y. monden m. role of interleukin-6 in skele- tal muscle protein breakdown and cathepsin activity in vivo.

