experimental studies demonstrate that the immune and metabolic deviations involved in obesity may not derive lin- early from dietary intake but rather from gut microbiota modifications induced by the diet reviewed in 4. hence notwithstanding incomplete evidence from clinical intervention studies thus far the composition of the gut microbiota may be taken to represent a strategic contributor to obesity as it pertains to excessive energy intake from an unhealthy diet and disproportionate storage of energy owing to sedentary behavior.gut microbiota and obesity epidemic cause consequence or mechanismscientific interest in the potential causative role of the gut microbiota in obesity was attracted by the demonstration that a distinctive gut microbiota composi- tion prevails in obese individuals with adjustments following weight gain or weight loss 16. in the same vein aberrant compositional development of the gut microbiota is documented during breastfeeding in infants in whom over- weight development was documented i.e.

gut microbiota deviation precedes obesity 17. further support for the conception of microbiota involvement in obesity is obtained by epidemiological data linking known causes of gut micro- biota disturbance early in life namely cesarean section delivery and antibiotic exposure to the subsequent development of overweight and obesity reviewed in 4. experimental studies again have improved our understanding of mecha- nisms and causality in this context.

elevated systemic exposure to li- popolysaccharide an endotoxin released by gram-negative bacteria character- izes this inflammatory tone defined as metabolic endotoxemia 25. aided by dysbiosis-induced impairment in the gut barrier function lipopolysaccharidesare delivered to cd14 and toll-like receptor 4 and the ensuing production of preinflammatory cytokines aggravates glucose and insulin metabolism and con- tributes to the onset of overweight-associated pathologies including type 2 dia- betes hypertension hepatic steatosis and dyslipidemia reviewed in 4 23 26. interestingly dietary fatty acids of which circulating levels are often increased in obesity have previously been shown to induce insulin resistance through the same signaling pathways linking the nutritional environment to the gut micro- ecology within the innate immune regulation 23 26.gut microbiota profiles are causally linked to the obesity riskthe most plausible evidence of a causal relationship between dysbiosis and the obesity risk has been obtained from experimental studies demonstrating that gut microbiota transfer from an obese individual can produce the obese phenotype in the recipient 27 28. colonization of germ-free mice with the gut microbiota from an obese mouse or human enables weight gain and fat mass accumulation in these animals without altered dietary intake.

elective cesarean section accompanied by antibiotic treatment hinders the es- tablishment of the gut microbiota more or less transiently but nonetheless car- ries long-term clinical consequences manifested as immune-inflammatory con- ditions as well as obesity 11. the impact of maternal obesity may still constitutea confounder here.

a recent systematic review and meta-analysis however has demonstrated that cesarean section exerts an independent effect on obesity in children even when the results were adjusted for maternal prepregnancy weight 12. epidemiological data linking early antibiotic exposure to a later obesity risk are more conflicting.

2. indeed the demonstration of active inflammatory cas- cades in the ileum in response to a high-fat diet prior to the onset of obesity invites the notion that the low-grade inflammation of obesity may be initiated in the gut and specifically by the gut microbiota the presence of which is a pre- requisite in the progression of inflammation.

in accordance with this line of experimental work there are clinical case reports on the treatment of recurrent diarrhea caused by clostridium difficile by fecal transplantation which demon- strate the development of obesity the donor metabolic type in the recipient 29. it needs to be acknowledged that current demonstrations are far from com- plete in identifying specific constituents within the obesogenic microbiota as causative offending agents in the vicious circle of obesity.

lancet 20163871377-1396.isolauri e rautava s collado mc salminen s early microbe contact in defining child metabolic health and obesity risk in green lr hester rl eds parental obesity inter- generational programming and consequenc- es.

multifaceted therapeutic ap- proaches are called for to halt the cascade from neonatal adiposityhigh birth weight to childhood excessive weight gainadult obesity with comorbidities.

conversely being highly sensitive to environmental impacts particu- larly to early feeding the compositional development of the gut microbiota may prove the target of choice in efforts to reduce the risk of obesity.

it has been demonstrated that a lower number of bifidobacteria precedes the development of obesity and a dearth of butyrate-producing bacteria and an overall richness of bacteria increase the risk of meta- bolic disease moreover recognition that practices known to disrupt the early gut micro- biota e.g.

cesarean section delivery and antibiotic exposure contribute to obesity en- courages to pursue this line of research.c 2017 nestec ltd. veveys.

karger ag baselobesity - the epidemicconcurrently with important advances in medicine the burden of obesity has become a plague of our times whether the link is causal remains elusive.

indeed overweight and obesity can be seen as belonging to the familyof noncommunicable diseases sharing common environmental risk factors and immunologic features which frequently coexist and constitute a threat to hu- man well-being.

two decades ago the world health organization declared obesity a global epi- demic 1. the term defines groups of cases resembling each other and second- ly groups of different diseases occurring in the same place or in the same season and sometimes spreading on epi the people demos in contrast to nosos a term used to describe diseases at individual level 2.the ncd risk factor collaboration found that the mean age-corrected body mass index kgm2 has continued to increase in men and women alike exceed- ing 24 in both in 200 countries and territories between 1975 and 2014 3. dur- ing this period the risk of becoming obese was higher than that of being under- weight.

