the poultry-associated e. coli had many of the same virulence factors as human extraintestinal pathogenic e. coli expec which could facilitate human colonization and extraintestinal infections .to investigate if poultry-associated strains existed among hu- man clinical e. coli isolates with pampc production we screened isolates from microbiology laboratory and national strain collec- tions.

however to what extent consumption of chicken meat contaminated by resistant bacteria affects human health has not been established .with the exception of coccidiostats not classified as an anti- biotic in europe norwegian broiler production has a very low usage of antimicrobials e. in spite of this cephalosporin- resistant e. coli were detected in approximately one-third of the broilers and retail chicken fillets produced in norway in the period from 2011 to 2014 e. a recent study showed that cephalosporin-resistant e. coli originating from norwegian chicken fillets had low genetic diversity mainly limited to a few multi-locus sequence types sts and typically carried the plasmid-mediated ampc pampc blacmy-2 gene on an inck plasmid .

the aim of the study was to compare human- and poultry-associated cephalo- sporin-resistant e. coli by use of single nucleotide polymorphism snp analyses to determine the genetic relatedness of selected ampc-producing strains from the two reservoirs with the highest possible resolution.materials and methodsbacterial isolatesthe scheme for selection and analysis of the isolates in the present study is illustrated in .escherichia coli isolates from broilers.

the poultry-associated e. coli strains were a subset of isolates originally collected from retail chicken meat fillets in 2012 n 4 and 2014 n 10 and from chicken faecal samples in 2011 n 3 as a part of the norwegian monitoring programme for antimicrobial resistance in the veteri- nary and food production sectors normnorm-vet e. the monitoring program reported the following prevalence of pampc- positive e. coli isolates from broilers 43 108252 from intestinal flora of healthy broilers in 2011 and from chicken filet samples 32 66205 and 29 58201 in 2012 and 2014 respectively.

a selection of completed e. coli reference genomes downloaded from national center for biotechnology information ncbi   was included in the analysis to limit the snp calling to the phylogenetic informative genomic sequences assumed to be representative for the e. coli core genome .

2. genome single nucleotide polymorphism snp differences in human clinical escherichia coli isolates compared with one ampc-producing poultry e. coli st38 strain collected from norwegian retail chicken fillets.

3. dendrogram after whole genome comparison with single nucleotide polymorphism snp calling and phylogenetic analysis of escherichia coli isolates from human clinical infections poultry samples and a selection of genbank e. coli reference genomes retrieved from genbank.

this indicates that the majority n 182 of our blacmy-2-positive clinical expecs have acquired the pampc from other sources than the cephalosporin- resistant e. coli found in chicken fillets and were therefore unre- lated to the chicken meat e. coli.

sequence analysis after wgs confirmed that all of the 29 clinical isolates selected in the screening carried a plasmid backbone with high similarity to the inckblacmy-2 plasmid in the poultry-associated e. coli.the wgs-based in silico low-resolution e. coli genotyping of the 29 clinical strains showed that most of these expec isolates were distantly related to the poultry e. coli.

extrapolation and comparison of our findings to similar studies using e. coli core genomes derived from proteome analyses indicate that our ten poultry and five uti isolates were as closely related as would be expected for clones in a foodborne e. coli outbreak .

with the assumption that the isolates were clonal the beast analyses determined the time when these 15 human and poultry e. coli isolates diverged from a common ancestor to year 2005. the beast output showed that the five clinical e. coli isolates were positioned among the poultry isolates in three different clusters.

our approach based on tar- geted selection of resistant isolates for wgs-based high-resolution comparisons supports that transmission of antimicrobial resistance may occur both by clonal transfer of e. coli from poultry to humans and more frequently by the transfer of plasmids to pathogeniccoli adapted to humans.in conclusion 20 of the 29 selected inckblacmy-2-positive expec isolates showed very close relatedness to cephalosporin- resistant e. coli found in retail chicken fillets.

eoriginal articlenorwegian patients and retail chicken meat share cephalosporin-resistant escherichia coli and inckblacmy-2 resistance plasmidse.s.

dahle  m. sunde  1 domain of infection control and environmental health norwegian institute of public health oslo norway2 centre for biological sequence analysis department of systems biology technical university of denmark kongens lyngby denmark3 department of diagnostic services norwegian veterinary institute oslo norway4 norwegian national advisory unit on detection of antimicrobial resistance department of microbiology and infection control university hospital of north norway tromso norway5 research group for microbial pharmacology and population biology department of pharmacy university of tromso e the arctic university of norwaytromso norway6 department of clinical microbiology vestfold hospital trust tonsberg norway7 research group for host-microbe interactions faculty of health sciences university of tromso e the arctic university of norway tromso norway8 department of medical microbiology stavanger university hospital stavanger norway9 department of clinical microbiology and infection control akershus university hospital lorenskog norway10 department of clinical microbiology sorlandet hospital kristiansand norwaya r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 11 august 2016 received in revised form 11 november 2016accepted 28 december 2016available online 7 january 2017 editor g. linakeywordschicken meatplasmid-mediated ampc transmission urinary tract infectionszoonotic transfer of cephalosporin-resistantescherichia colia b s t r a c t objectives in 2012 and 2014 the norwegian monitoring programme for antimicrobial resistance in the veterinary and food production sectors norm-vet showed that 124 of a total of 406 samples 31 of norwegian retail chicken meat were contaminated with extended-spectrum cephalosporin-resistant escherichia coli.

the aim of this study was to compare selected cephalosporin-resistant e. coli from humans and poultry to determine their genetic relatedness based on whole genome sequencing wgs.

