most of these studies are not conducted by people who are familiar with microbiology so that most studies merely describe the percentage of reads found in the four large clades observed in humans firmicutes bacteroidetes actino- bacteria and proteobacteria.this type of information is totally useless from a microbiological point of view.

thus the vast majority of studies are based on analysis of the digestive microbiota by testing faeces analysed by metagenomic studies with sequences analysed by complex com- puter programs .

it is probable that 90-95 of the bacteria analysed are commensal bacteria of the colon .

it is mainly the population of the small intestine that plays a major role in effects of the microbiota in humans as nutriments are absorbed in this part and as most immune cells of the gut are found in peyer's patches in the ileum.finally there is a terrible lack of reproducibility in metagenomic methods given that amplification techniques vary from one study to another that dna extraction techniques give variable results  and that data analysis is also operator-dependent because different programs give different results.cultivating the bacteria of the digestive tract is a necessity given the importance of the ingestion of antioxidants including vitamin c and vegetables and the impact on the aerobicanaerobic ratio.

in total the multiplication of massive studies of the microbiota did not result in a highly significant change in knowledge because of the lack of microbiologists and medical doc- tors involved in the study of its usefulness.

introduction of medical knowledge in the study of the microbiota and cultivation of the bacteria to analyse their metabolism and their role are neces- sities.

many studies on microbiota do not even identify bacterial species.

it is not therefore surprising that there is an inability to transform microbiota studies into something useful for humans.furthermore stool analyses raise the issue of the prokaryotes analysed essentially reflecting the population of the colon.

but before our work on the aerobicanaerobic ratio in the digestive tract  no one had been concerned about the role of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria.

this approach is more pertinent than that which uses colonic bacteria as a model for diseases which are not related to the colon.

ecommentarythe study of microbiota needs both microbiologists and medical doctorsd.

raoultaix marseille univ inserm cnrs ird urmite marseille francea r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 19 january 2017 received in revised form 9 february 2017accepted 1 march 2017available online 7 march 2017 editor g. greubthe study of the gut microbiota has become a priority in the scientific world.

to conclude efforts should be made in terms of calls for tenders by scientific societies and american and european structures so that clinical microbiologists and infectiologists invest in collaborative projects to give meaning to the study of the microbiota.transparency declarationthe author has nothing to disclose.

