the national institutes of health human microbiome project and european metahit were launched 10 years ago to spur research into the microbiome in humans and to provide resources for the broader scientific community  .as a result there has been a substantial increase in investigations into the microbiome.the microbiome of healthy skinthe skin is an ecosystem consisting of microbial commu- nities living in a range of physiologically and topographi- cally distinct niches including sebaceousnonsebaceous hair-bearingglabrous moistdry and creasednoncreased regions  .

further alterations during later stages of life have not yet been explored.skin microbiome in dermatologic disordersin addition to studies in healthy individuals 16s rrna gene sequencing has been used to study the skin microbiome in different patient populations.

meta- genomic analyses of diverse body sites in healthy humans have defined the skin microbiome as shaped by local biogeography yet marked by strong individuality.although most microbiome investigations have focused on single body sites where disease is most apparent skin oral mucosa nares vaginal mucosa stool complex human dis- orders are often systemic and microbiota at one body site potentially may have distal effects.

skin microbiome research in healthy individuals and patients with dermatologic disorders has provided insights into the complexity and biogeography of human skin microbes.

direct genomic sequencing has the advantage of avoiding potential difficulties in cultivating microbial isolates and can provide a more comprehensive assessment of the microbiome .

the term microbiome refers to microbes their genomes and their environment .

skin microbiome in- vestigations may also provide some insights into why certain dermatological disorders for example atopic dermatitis or psoriasis manifest at stereotypical skin sites during specific decades of life.1center for cancer research national cancer institute national institutes of health bethesda maryland usa 2associate editor and 3national human genome research institute national institutes of health bethesda maryland usacorrespondence heidi h. kong and julia a. segre national human genome research institute national institutes of health 49 convent drive building 49 room 4a26 msc 4442 bethesda maryland 20892 usa.

the human microbiome project selected skin as one of the body sites to study in a large cohort of healthy individuals.

bacterial sequences are grouped into the three major genera that dominate the human microbiome corynebacteria propionibacteria and staphylococcus.

additional colors represent minor components of the skin microbiome.

the varied topography of human skin offers a unique opportunity to study how the body's microenvironments influence the functional and taxonomic composition of microbial communities.the skin microbiome is dynamic during a human life- span.

during the transition through puberty the skin microbiome again shiftsdramatically from predominance of firmicutes strepto- coccaceae bacteroidetes and proteobacteria to more lipophilic corynebacteriaceae and propionibacteriaceae .

recent intriguing studies have investigated microbes and antimicrobial peptide expression deeper into skin possibly playing a role in controlling s. aureus infection  .beyond skin bacteriaalthough most microbiome studies have focused on bacteria the skin hosts other microbes including fungi and viruses.

microbiome approaches are being incorporated into studies in a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease to mood disorders and various cancers.

the complexity of host-microbial in- teractions is reflected in recent studies that suggest that the presence and composition of the gut microbiome affects the efficacy of cancer immunotherapies  .

