The high transcript abundances of these genes encoding enzymes  L1 to L4 is consistent with a high production rate of 3-methylthio-1-propanol at day 3  whereas the decreased transcriptional activities of these genes encoding enzymes at day 10 reflect the decreased accumulation of 3-methylthio-1-propanol at day 10.Dimethyl disulfide is produced from methanethiol which is generated from methionine in a reaction catalyzed by methionine -y-lyase cystathionine -lyase orcystathionine -y-lyase   L1.

Data are shown as the mean - SD n  4. b Relative transcript abundances of major genera at day 3 and day 10 two biological replicates 3-1 and 3-2 for day 3 and 10-1 and 10-2 for day 10. c Transcript abundances of Saccharomyces and Lactobacillus at days 3 and 10 two biological replicates as in panel b.FIG 3 Analysis of transcript abundances and distribution frequencies of core microbiota at days 3 and 10 two biological replicates 3-1 and 3-2 for day 3 and 10-1 and 10-2 for day 10.romyces 89.8 at day 3 and only Sporosarcina Lactobacillus Naumovozyma Ogataea Penicillium and Bacillus 2.9 0.9 0.7 0.6 0.5 and 0.5 respectively were present at 0.5 of the average relative transcript abundance.

In this module Lactobacillus and Saccharomyces exhibit both high distribution frequencies and transcript abundances of genes involved in regenerating methionine and producing SAM.In module L 3-methylthio-1-propanol is generated from methionine in three steps .

At day 10 Lactobacillus showed high transcript abundance of genes encoding alcohol dehydrogenase L4 1094.8 FPKM and Acetobacter showed low transcript abundance of the genes encoding alcohol dehydrogenase L4 2.0 FPKM.

This work revealed a synergistic effectbetween Saccharomyces and Lactobacillus in which Saccharomyces played a crucial role in the generation of 3-methylthio-1-propanol and dimethyl disulfide and Lactobacillus regenerated methionine and SAM for S. cerevisiae.

The increase in the concentrations of 3-methylthio-1-propanol and dimethyl disulfide might result from increased expression of genes involved in methionine biosynthesis and methionine catabolism.

These results indicate that S. cerevisiae increases the expression of genes for the generation of 3-methylthio-1-propanol and dimethyl disulfide in the presence of L. buchneri which can regenerate the precursor methionine for methionine catabolism and they reveal anovel synergistic effect between these two strains.Interactions between Saccharomyces and lactic acid bacteria occur in dairy food and beverage fermentation .

Saccharomyces transcribed genes encoding 23 enzymes related to the generation of 3-methylthio- 1-propanol and dimethyl disulfide and Lactobacillus was active in the methyl cycle which recycles methionine the precursor of the two sulfur compounds.

To obtain further insight into the effects of microbial interactions on sulfur metabolism the transcription levels of genes involved in the methyl cycle and membrane transport systems and the generation of 3-methylthio-1-propanol and dimethyl disulfide from methionine were monitored at 48 h when the coculture achieved the maximum production rates.L.

exhibit minor aminotransferase activity on methionine  and lack methionine -y-lyase in cheese fermentation  which might explain the lack of 3-methylthio-1-propanol and dimethyl disulfide production in L. buchneri JZ-JN-2017.

