the resistance pattern of human milk and curd lab isolates cannot be directly correlated owing to their different ecological niche but high resistance in human milk isolates over curd isolates may be clarified with the high usage and exposure level.in our study standard probiotics lactobacillus strains covering common lactobacillus species along with refer- ence probiotic strains displayed resistance pattern towards different antibiotic functional groups.

gram-positive lactococci l. lactis and l. cremoris included as non-probiotic controltable 3 antibacterial susceptibility profile of curd lactobacillus isolates to commercial antibioticstable 3 continuedtable 4 antibacterial susceptibility profile of human milk lactobacillus isolates to commercial antibioticstable 5 antibacterial susceptibility pattern of different lab strains reference probiotics and pathogens against commercial antibioticstable 5 continuedwere also examined for their antibiotic susceptibility pat- tern.

oxacillin was mildly effective against few curd isolates and gram-positive pathogens however the scenario was reverse for all the isolates of human milk origin and gram-negative pathogens.

henceforth the present study was conceived to assess the antibiotic sus- ceptibility pattern of lab isolates of curd and human milk origin.

although a wide spectrum of antibiotic resistance has been recorded between different study groups on comparative assess- ment human milk isolates have been shown to have high resistance profile over curd lactobacilli.

gram-positive pathogens gave intermediate pattern towards glycopeptides teicoplanin vancomycin while gram-negative pathogens were resistant towards the same table .discussionthe study evaluated the antibiotic susceptibility profile of lactobacilli isolated from curd and human milk samples from the different regions of punjab india against 26 different commercial antibiotic discs belonging to different groups.

j food saf 3638-51sharma c singh bp thakur n gulati s gupta s mishra sk panwar h 2017 antibacterial effects of lactobacillus isolates of curd and human milk origin against food-borne and human pathogens.

fermented milk products such as curd and yoghurt and human milk are among the common source of lab that assures establishment and replenishment of healthy gut flora after antibiotic treatment to adults and infants respectively.

few researchers acknowledge the presence of antibiotic resistance in lab and appreciate the possibility of their co-administration with antibiotic therapy ensuring replenishment of the healthy gut flora which is otherwise at high risk dixit et al.

harsh panwardrhpanwargmail.com 1 department of dairy microbiology college of dairy science and technology guru angad dev veterinary and animal sciences university gadvasu ludhiana punjab 141004 india2 school of public health and zoonoses guru angad dev veterinary and animal sciences university gadvasu ludhiana punjab 141004 indiakeywords antibiotic resistance  susceptibility  lactic acid bacteria  lactobacillus  probioticsabbreviationsabrantibiotic resistance absantibiotic susceptibility lablactic acid bacteriaintroductionthe human and animal gut harbor an essential complex yet adaptive component that allows host adaptation at different timescales quercia et al.

the resistant category r implies that isolates are resistant towards usually achievable concentrations of the antimi- crobial agent present in the commercial disks used.the results were interpreted according to the break- points recommended by clsi  guidelines as fol- lows the isolates with a zone of inhibition less than or equal to 14 mm were considered as resistant r and thosetable 2 list of antibiotics used in the studya concentration in unitswith more than 20 mm diameter as susceptible s and those having zoi between 15 and 19 mm as intermediate i. antibiotic susceptibility testing was carried out over mrs for lactobacilli m17 for lactococci and mueller- hinton for pathogens.

it is interesting to note that exposure to antibi- otics is a crucial factor for resistance development rational usage and maximum squeezing of ongoing drugs of choice may retard the developing antibiotic resistance.further the isolates showing high resistance pattern after screening for their probiotic potential may be a suit- able candidate for administration during antibiotic therapy.

susceptibility of human milk lactobacilli towards both ampicillin and penicillin has also been doc- umented by few research studies martin et al.

.various reports corroborate our findings regarding resistance of curd hawaz  halder and mandal  and human milk martin et al.

among human milk isolates hm-1 l. casei showed the highest resistance profile.

