Estimates of the surface areas that depend on height weight and other assumptions have led to widely accepted surface area values of 2 m2 for the skin Mosteller 1987 30 m2 for the gut Helander and Fandriks 2014 and 50 m2 for the lung Hasleton 1972.We have taken these surface area calculations at face value for decades with little reason to question their accuracy.

By calculating the surface area of follicular and the interfollicular epithelial surface it is shown that skin provides a vast interface for interactions with the microbiome.Studies of the function of the microbiome depend on understanding how microbes that live outside of the body can influence systemic behaviors.

2012.A careful study of the skin using laser-capture microdissection and in situ hybridization has revealed that microbes reside not only on the external interfollicular epithelial surface but also on the entire skin appendage surface and even below the basement membrane Nakatsuji et al.

Therefore the surface area of the follicular surface could be approximated as 4.71 x 10d6 x 5 x 106  24 m2.

Added to the 2 m2 surface area estimate based on the exposed interfollicular epithelium and accounting that other appendage structures like sweat and sebaceous glands also provide epithelial surfaces for microbes the total skin surface area is at least 30 m2.

This is more than 10 times greater than the surface area commonly reported for the skinThis estimate of the skin surface area shows how the skin has a large potential interface with the microbiome and thus the microbial community that exists on the skin has the greatest potential to influence human health.

The surface area of skin has been miscalculatedHuman skin is not a flat surface.

However estimates of the potential for the microbiome to influence human health through skin have ignored the inner follicular surface and therefore vastly underestimated the potential of the skin microbiome to have a systemic effect on the human body.

Human skin lung and gut are generally considered to have the largest organs but based on the classical perspective of their functions skin has been considered to have the smallest surface area.

This essay seeks to clarify the estimate of the surface area of human skin to demonstrate the potential impact of the skin microbiome on human health.

