1. the tumor- promoting effect of er stress was also found in a melatonin-accelerated den-induce hcc in rats 30. these results indicate that er stress can act as an initiator for malignant transformation during nafld-to-hcc progression.circadian dysregulationcircadian dysregulation has been demonstrated to be involved in metabolic disorders especially the meta- bolic pathways in liver and it contributes to nafld 31-33. hfd-induced obesity and hepatic insulin resistance are correlates of malfunction of circadian rhythm 3435. interestingly in humans the short sleep duration and poor sleep quality correlates with an increased risk of nafld 36. the contribution of cir- cadian dysfunction in nash and hcc has been reported 37. a disease progression from nafld to hcc was observed in the jet-lagged mice which show chronic circadian disruption.

microbial translocation-induced th17 cells have beenfound to be necessary for the efficient chemotherapy of cyclophosphamide 77. on the other hand th17 cells were found to promote colon carcinogenesis and enhance metastasis 7879. our group discovered that peripheral blood th17 cells from hcc patients sup- press cd8 t-cell responses indicating that th17 cells promote hcc 80. accumulation of th17 cells in nafld liver has been repeatedly observed 81-84. in patients the progression from nafld to nash is marked by an increase in intrahepatic th17 cells 84. in a recent report the hcc-promoting function of th17 in nafld has been revealed 83. an accumula- tion of il-17a-producing th17 cells in nafld was found to be induced by hepatic dna damage.

higher liver mda levels and dna damage have been observed in mouse nafld models 17. in addition increased ros has been observed along with disease progression from nash to hcc such as in the mice harboring liver-specific deletion of augmenter of liver regeneration alr which develop spontaneous nash and hcc 18. although the pos- sibility that ros-caused dna damage leads to hcc is likely fig.

this review explores recent findings of both 'intrinsic' effects on hepatocytes and the role of the local environment in nafld-promoted hcc development.introductionhepatocellular carcinoma hcc is the most common form of primary liver malignancy and one of the lead- ing causes of cancer-related death 1-3. hcc is gener- ally considered as a typical inflammation-related cancer.

gut sterilization reduces den- induced hcc 85. lps a gram negative bacterial component has been identified to promote hcc via activating tlr4 receptors on hepatocytes and hepatic stellate cells hscs which leads to nf-jb-dependent epiregulin secretion fibrogenesis and hepatocyte prolif- eration.nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is often associated with alterations of the gut microbiota dysbiosis 8687. indeed dysbiosis has been found to accelerate hcc formation in hfd-fed mice exposed to chemical carcinogens 88. secondary bile acid deoxycholic acid dca whose production depends on gut commensal bacteria especially gram positive clostridium species were found to mediate this process.

2. dca blockage or removing gram positive bacteria inhibits hcc development 88. more recently the same group described that lipoteichoic acid lta a major cell wall component of gram positive bacteria also mediates hfd-dependent hcc formation 89. comprehensive analysis of gut commensal bacteria innafld patients is warranted to identify the relevant bacteria for nash and hcc.conclusionnonalcoholic fatty liver disease not only directly affects hepatocytes but also dramatically changes the local environment in the liver and enhances hcc develop- ment.

it has been estimated that up to 22 of hcc cases in western countries are now attributed to nafld27.much progress has been made in recent years on the mechanisms of how nafld promotes hcc.

1. the contribution of il-6 to nafld- promoted hcc was supported by another study that chronic inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1mtorc1 was found to enhance den- induced hcc in mice fed hfd 23. long-term mtorc1 inhibition enhanced il-6 production in nafld which led to stronger stat3 activation enhanced hepatocyte damage and ultimate hepatocar- cinogenesis 23. all these findings suggest that inflam- matory cytokines such as il-6 and tnf-a have a direct contribution to hepatocarcinogenesis in nafld.fig.

it needs to be pointed out that the cd-hfd model recapitulates the natural disease progression of nafld to hcc and spontaneous hcc occurs in  30 of treated mice which helps understand the nafld-to-hcc transition under a clinical relevant pathological condi- tion.

cd8 t cells have been demonstrated to inhibit tumor growth in den-induced hcc 63. recent clinical trials using immune checkpoint block- ade to boost t-cell responses show promising effects for hcc treatment 64-66. surprisingly a hcc- promoting effect of hepatic cd8 t cells in nafld has been reported recently 58. using the cd-hdf model mentioned above increased intrahepatic cd8 t cell population was observed in nash.

2. in chronically inflamed liver lymphocytes have been suggested not only to cause tissue damage but also create a propro- liferative stimulus and promote malignant transforma- tion of hepatocytes 67. lymphocyte-derived cytokines such as lymphotoxin b have been shown to be involved in viral hepatitis-induced hepatocarcinogene- sis 68. in support cd8 t cell- and the cd8 t cell-secreted lymphotoxin b are found to be requiredfor hcc formation in fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase fah knockout mice which present a chronic hepati- tis 69. all these studies suggest a functional switch of cd8 t cells during hcc formation in chronic- diseased liver such as nafld.

nafld is strongly associated and overlapping with obesity which has become a global pandemic 4-6. following the increasing prevalence of obesity and the decline of hepatitis c virus-infected patients the contribution of nafld to hcc is rising.

circadian dysregulation leads to lipid dysregulation and expression of hcc-promoting genes through car.er stressendoplasmic reticulum er stress results from protein misfolding within the secretory pathway 24. the pres- ence of hepatic er stress can be observed in both nafld animal models and nash patients 25-27. reducing er stress ameliorates nafld in mice 28. in a recent study er stress has been identified as a mediator in nafld-promoted hcc 29. enhanced er stress and more severe nash were observed after hfd feeding of mup-upa mice which show sponta- neous hepatic er stress.

hfd feeding has been found to suppress nkt cell-derived ifnc but enhances the production of il- 13 a th2 cytokine 61. in addition it has been reported that fatty acids impair the presentation of endogenous antigens to nkt cells in nafld 62. further studies of nkt function in nafld will help better understand their role in nafld-induced hcc development.cd8 t cellscd8 t cells have long been recognized as antitumor effectors.

lipid metabolic pathways are tightly controlled by enzymes whose expressions are regulated by several important transcriptional factors including farnesoid x receptor fxr liver x receptor lxr and constitutive androstane receptor car 910. excessive food intake especially fat consumption breaks the balance of lipid metabolism and leads to obesity and nafld which are well demonstrated in leptin-deficient obob mice or dietary nafld model such as mice kept on a high-fat diet hfd 11.hepatocyte ballooning caused by accumulation of lipid droplets is the hallmark of nafld.

