during progression nafld often remains asymptomatic and is usually diagnosed incidentally.epidemiology of nafld and overlap with obesity t2d and cvdthe prevalence of nafl in the global population is around 25 and in the presence of obesity as high as 51. the overall global prevalence of nash is estimated to be between 1.5-6.45. there exists a significant overlap between nafld and nash with obesity 51 and 82 respectively and cvd with cardiac-related deaths as being one of the most common outcomes for nafld patients.

devel- opment of new metabolic biomarkers are therefore needed to complement existing ones to better stage nafld from nafl through nash with increasing fibrosis to cirrhosis.current development of improved nald nash biomarkersanimal model systems exist for both nafld and nash providing a homogenous genetic background and a controlled environment.

vitamin e administered daily improves liver histology in non- diabetic patients with nash and is recommended as a first line treatmentand other dietary supplements can be considered including those mentioned above though at present may be premature awaiting clinical studies.concluding remarksthe metabolic dysregulation leading to nafld and nash and consequent dysregulations caused by nafld and nash impacting other disease states e.g.

large nafld and nash consortia have nevertheless been established both in the us and the eu that all focus on a better understanding of disease improved diagnostics and enhanced treatment strategies.referencesyounossi zm koenig ab abdelatif d et al.

indeed the global prevalence of hyperlipidemiadyslipidemia among nafld and nash patients is estimated to be 70 whereas hypertriglyceridemia in nafld and nash patients is estimated to be 40.7 and 83.3 respec- tively.

as nafld and nash are chronic diseases it is difficult to discern how either feeds into different co-morbidities associated with the metabolic syndrome or how nafld and nash might develop as a consequence of the metabolic syndrome.

as nafld and nash are increasing in prevalence and already affecting large part of the population it is important to understand that the consequences of nafld and nash will place a huge burden on healthcare.

despite limited availability and large variability the use of human material for nafld nash research has proven valuable manuscript in preparation nilsson metrakos et al..with respect to alignment of research data with patientdonor data were centlydeveloped a framework for incidental research findings such that these can get back to the physician treating the patient if deemed significant by an independent board.

fibrosis progression in conjunction with nash is seen in about half of nash patients placing these at risk of developing terminal liver disease including hcc which has one- and three-year survival rates of 36 and 17 respectively for discussion on nafld and links to hcc please see.

whereas it is commonly agreed that nafld without nash has slow or negligible histological progression patients with nash may exhibit progres- sion to terminal liver disease cirrhosis hcc or decompensation.

as the prevalence of nafld is on the increase and overlaps with the metabolic syndrome clinical practice guidelines now recommend that patients with obesity andor t2d should be examined for nafld.

taken together and given the observed prevalence of nafld an argument for routine nafld diagnostics seems obvious.

as such the costbenefit ratio remains high precluding the use of these in routine diagnostics.molecular pathophysiology of nafld and nashmost agree that nafld can be viewed as the hepatic expression of the metabolic syndrome.

hepatol- ogy 2016 64173-84.ekstedt m hagstrom h nasr p et al.

hepatology 2015 615 1547-1554.stepanova m rafiq n makhlouf h et al.

