the ratio of genera klebsiella and bifidobacterium at 3 months accurately predicted allergy in 12 out of the 18 infants who developed allergy by ages 18 months andlow et al.page 1036 months giving a test sensitivity true positive rate of allergic infants of approximately 67. on the other hand the specificity of this test true negative rate of non-allergic infants is approximately 75 predicted non-allergy in 9 out of 12 non-allergic infants for allergy at age 18 months and 82 predicted non-allergy in 9 out of 11 non-allergic infants for allergy at age 36 months.

feeding pattern at 3 months average scorad measurement and allergy development by 18 months and 36 months of age.low et al.page 27table 7computation of odds of infants developing childhood allergy by a 18 months and b 36 months of age based on kb ratio values at age 3 months.median kb ratio was used as a cut-off for computation of odds ratio to measure likelihood of allergy development.

of interest was also the follow-up of these infants at 36 months of age all infants with positive allergy diagnosis at 18 months of age remained allergic at age 3 years suggesting persistency of their allergic symptoms into childhood table 2. moreover approximately 50 n  10 of these allergic infants developed multiple allergy phenotypes by 36 months of age including onset of asthma supplementary table s1.faecal microbiota profile of allergic and healthy infantsa total of 117 faecal samples were collected from the 39 infants at ages 3 weeks 3 months and 6 months.

single asterisk  indicates p  .05.dinfants who were solely-fed with human milkeinfants who received breast milk and liquids including water other than formulafinfants who were fed entirely with formula milkginfants who received the mixtures of human milk formula and liquidslow et al.page 21table 2clinical characteristics of infants who developed childhood allergy n21 by 18 months and 36 months of age.table 3relative abundance  of bacterial genus italicized which differs significantly between allergic infants and healthy controls at 3 weeks of age.no significant differences were detected at bacterial genus level between healthy controls and allergic infants at 3 weeks of agetable 4relative abundance  of bacterial genus italicized which differs significantly between allergic infants and healthy controls at 3 months of age.table 5relative abundance  of bacterial genus italicized which differs significantly between allergic infants and healthy controls at 6 months of age.their respective phylum is highlighted in bold.

particularly noteworthy was that infants who harbored a high klebsiellabifidobacterium kb ratio at age 3 months had higher odds of developing allergy by ages 18 months and 3 yearslow et al.page 8suggesting potential clinical relevance of the kb ratio in prediction of allergy risk later in life.at age 3 months genus klebsiella was significantly over-represented in allergic infants compared to the healthy controls.

kmg has received reimbursement for speaking at conferences sponsored by companies selling nutritional products and is part of an academic consortium that has received research funding from abbott nutrition nestec and danone.low et al.page 2microbial composition and diversity of 21 allergic and 18 healthy infants at 3 weeks 3 months and 6 months of age and correlated the microbiota with allergy at ages 18 and 36 months.

infants who developed allergy had significantly lower microbial richness at age 3 months p  .05 but not at 3 weeks or 6 months figure 2.based on unweighted and weighted unifrac pcoa plots the faecal microbial composition of allergic infants and healthy controls appeared to separate along the first component at 3 months figure 3. no definite cluster could be identified in pcoas of the faecal microbial composition of allergic and healthy infants for week 3 and month 6 samples not shown.these results were in line with taxonomical results reported earlier i.e.

analysis at individual level showed that most allergic infants had a high kb ratio value - with twelve of the allergic infants ranking above the median kb ratio of this population table 6 figure 4.consequently we analyzed the association of kb ratio at 3 months in relation to the risk of developing childhood allergy by ages 18 months and 36 months.

2014. some characteristics pertaining to these infants are described in table i. several population characteristics including gender mode of delivery infant-feeding patterns gestational age birthweight weaning age infants' medication and pre-pregnancy maternal bmi were well distributed and did not differ between the two groups p  .05. subjects with parental allergic history was marginally higher in allergic infants compared to the healthy infants p  0.04 table i.in this study the development of allergy typically occurred in infants at the median age of 6 months and at times as early as in the first month of life table 2. the majority of the allergic infants n  15 developed their first allergy symptoms only at or after age 3 months supplementary table s1.

using the median kb ratio as a cut-off infants who had a high kb ratio had a 6-fold increased odds of developing allergy by age 18 months odds ratio 6.00 95 confidence interval 1.17 - 30.74 compared to those with a low kb ratio table 7. similarly infants with a high kb ratio had a 9-fold increased odds of developing allergy by age 3 years odds ratio 9.00 95 confidence interval 1.46 - 55.50 compared to those with a low kb ratio.discussionthe present study investigated the development of intestinal microbiota of non-allergic and allergic infants during the first 6 months of life with the aim of identifying potential microbiota biomarkers of allergic disease in children.

skin prick tests were also conducted in all infants at 18 months of age to assess for sensitization to common food cow's milk peanut and egg and dust mite allergens der fder p.sample collectionfaecal samples were collected from infants at 3 weeks 3 months and 6 months of age by the parents using sterile faeces containers.

using mann-whitney u test we observed that the differential ratio of relative abundances of klebsiella to bifidobacterium were significant p  0.01 between the two groups only at 3 months but not at 3 weeks or 6 months supplementary table s2.relationships between kb ratio and risk of developing allergyto explore further whether kb ratio could be utilized to discriminate between allergic and healthy infants at 3 months the kb ratio was compared across all infants in this study independently of their clinical phenotype.

2014 71-6. pubmed 24382056low et al.page 14figure 1.a relative abundance  of bacterial genus between allergic and healthy infants at 3 weeks 3 months and 6 months of age as determined by 16s rrna sequencing.

each dot represents the log10-transformed relative abundance of klebsiella harbored by each infant and lines indicate medians.low et al.page 15figure 2.boxplots show comparison of microbial richness of allergic and healthy infants at 3 weeks 3 months and 6 months of age based on a observed species b chao1 c ace.

it is known that at weaning age changes in consumption of complex carbohydrates and dietary fibres in infants induce a major transition in the intestinal microbiota composition and diversity edwards and parrett 2002. therefore due to the increased complexity of microbial configuration during weaning it is conceivable that our findings at age 6 months could be limited by the sample size.low et al.page 9intestinal colonization by klebsiella is not an unfamiliar occurrence in early life and is usually held in check by the groups of commensal bacteria in the intestinal ecosystem kamada et al.

