b relative mrna expression profiles of reprehensive genes involved in the nrf2are signaling pathway compared to mus20m p  0.05 n  6.health and disease 16 27. since long-term dietary intake of sfps could reverse the loss of cytoprotective capacity in the small intestine of mice as they aged the effect of dietary sfps on bacterial community in the small intestine of these animals was evaluated.following all denoising and filtering steps a dataset consisting of 249187 262222 229041 and 264730 reads from the mus20m mus11m mus4m and mus20mp groups respectively was used for the final analysis table 1. based on the sequence identity of greater than 97 an average of 275 270 434 and263 observed species otus were defined for the mus20m mus11m mus4m and mus20mp groupssfps delays the compositional change of the small intestine microbiota during agingbased on unifrac b-diversity analysis the overall compositional changes of the small intestine microbiota in different groups were analyzed by nmds non- metric multi-dimensional scaling.

moreover sfps could partially rejuvenate the overall status of the small intestine microbiota.conclusion the results suggested that dietary sfps may promote the health condition of the small intestine consequently leading to a healthy aging.keywords sargassum fusiforme polysaccharides intestinal microbiota nrf2 small intestine aging nrf2are signaling pathway.introductionsargassum fusiforme is known as a longevity vegetable in eastern asia because it is a rich source of health-promoting substances 1. it contains a significant proportion of polysaccharide which has been demonstrated to possess a number of biological activities including antitumor and antioxidant activities as well as activity related to immune-regulation 2. sargassum fusiforme polysaccharides exhibit a great diversity of monosaccharide composition glycosidic linkage and molecular weight.

thus the enrichment of bacteroidetes in the small intestine of mice that had been continuously fed sfpf over a long period could be related to the degradation of carbohydrate in the intestine accounting for the robust digestion despite the age of the animal.the compositional change of the small intestine microbiota in chronic aging process and the effect of sfps treatment were further studied at the genus level.

however it remains unclear as to whether s. fusiforme polysaccharides can prevent the insult of oxidant and aging through modulating the physiological status and microbiota of the intestine.a r t i c l e h i s t o r yreceived march 1 2017revised may 27 2017accepted may 28 2017doi 10.21741566524018666171205115516methods to assess the cytoprotective effect of s. fusiforme polysaccharides sfps in the small intestine of mice embarking on the aging process we compared the expressions of nrf2 and several representative markers sod-2 cat nqo1 and ho-1 of the nrf2are signaling pathway in the small intestine of male icr mice fed with a control diet with those of mice fed with a sfps-containing diet.

in addition the overall compositional changes in the small intestine microbiota were determined by 16s rdna sequencing followed by alpha and beta diversity analyses.results the results showed that dietary intake of sfps could ameliorate the declined cytoprotective capacity of the small intestine by upregulating the nrf2are signaling pathway.

bacteroidetes are known to have enriched polysaccharide metabolism whereas firrmicutes contain fewer number of polysaccharides degrading enzymes 30. since the digestion capacity of the intestine is linked to the metabolism of the gut bacteria an enhancement in polysaccharide metabolism may be also enhance the digestive capacity of the small intestine while a reduction in polysaccharide metabolism may lead to a decline in the digestive capacity of the intestine as manifested by age.

in order to investigate whether s. fusiforme polysaccharide could influence the physiological function and microbiota of the small intestine and thereby slow down the aging process the present study evaluated the cytoprotective capacity of the small intestine in mice by selectively investigating the changes in the nrf2are signaling pathway.

atopostipes belongs to the lactobacilliales order within the bacilli class and it has the ability to metabolizevaline and tryptophan and exhibits a strong correlation with the metabolisms of phenol iso-butyric acid and iso-valeric acid 31. since phenol iso-butyric acid and iso-valeric acid are inducers of the nrf2are signaling pathway we presumed that the anti-aging effect of sfps may be linked to the abundance of atopostipes and its metabolites.overall the mus20mp and mus11m group mice appeared to have a similar compositional gut microbiota suggesting that long-term administration of sfps could maintain the youthful composition of the small intestine microbiota in these animals despite their age increase.key phylotypes of gut microbiota modulated by sfpsthe specific bacteria that are characteristic of each group of mice were analyzed by lefse.

according to a previous report the total number of anaerobic bacteria in the human gut was found to decrease while the total numbers of lactobacilli bifidobacteria bacilli and gram-negative bacteria were found to increase with age 32. increase in the diversity of gammaproteobacteria in locust gut has been speculated to improve the defense against enteric threats 33. changes in the key phylotypes resulted from the sfps treatment suggested a positive correlation existed between the anti-aging effect of sfps and the significant changes in small intestinal microbiota.long-term dietary intake of sfps also dramatically increased the number of clostridium sensu stricto 1 and staphylococcus while markedly decreased the number of lactobacillus and unidentified ruminococcaceae at the genus level fig.

1. this suggested that decline in the cytoprotective capacity of the small intestine associated with aging was reversed by long- term administration of sfps to the animal before they embarked on the aging process.

activators and inhibitors of nrf2 play pivotal roles in the maintenance of health 22 however the relationship between the nrf2are signaling and the gut microbiota remains unclear 25.long-term dietary intake of sfps affects the composition and diversity of gut microbiotathe cytoprotective capacity of the small intestine is intimately related to healthy aging.

however further study is needed to elucidate the lack of consistency in compositional changes between colonic and small intestinal microbiota.conclusionthe physiological function of the small intestine was found to progressively decline in the process of aging as demonstrated by the loss of activity in the nrf2are signaling pathway.

absorption of intact polysaccharides by the small intestine has also been demonstrated 4 5 in which the polysaccharides would manifest their activities without changes in their structures.

at the same time the composition and diversity of gut microbiota in the small intestine of mice at different ages were also investigated.

the results suggested that long-term administration of s. fusiforme polysaccharide could enhance the activity of the nrf2are signaling pathway and concomitantly rejuvenating the bacterial community in the small intestine.

