Re- search describing the role of the bacterial component of the microbiome has established its association with several disease states including but not limited to metabolism obesity type 2 diabetes mellitus atopic dermatitis allergy wounds cystic fibrosis chronic kid- ney disease rheumatoid arthritis neurodevelopmental disorders HIV liver cirrhosis inflammatory bowel disease autism Parkinson's disease pancreatic cancer colorectal cancer esophageal cancer graft-versus-host disease GVHD and others -.In comparison relatively little effort has been de- dicated to characterizing the mycobiome in health and disease states.

The culture-depen- dent method identified Saccharomyces cerevisiae and four Candida species C. albicans Candida glabrata Candida krusei and Candida tropicalis.

Ongoing research is describing the fungal community and is providing new insights into biological mechanisms by which mul- tidirectional interactions between the microbiome their genomes metagenome metabolites metabolome and the human host ultimately affect health andor disease states.The term microbiome refers to microorganismsmicrobiota and their genomes coexisting with their hosts including millions of bacteria fungi virusesprotozoa and parasites.

A disruption of this fine balance leads to imbalance or dysbiosis and has been associated with several disease states.In a national and international attempt to high-light the role of the microbiome and to unify efforts to describe its role in human health and disease states the National Institutes of Health and the European Commission launched the Human Microbiome Project to characterize the human microbiota and their ge- nomes .

In the following sections we will describe in detail the difference in the mycobiome composition in several gastrointestinal dis- eases and the possible association between these changes and the development of disease  -.The Skin MycobiomeIt is now established that the human skin microbiome consists of millions of organisms particularly yeast and2The Mycobiome Impact on Health and Disease Statesdermatophytes.

The mycobiome has been described in healthy individuals - and alternations or symbi- osis of its fungal components have been implicated in several gastrointestinal disorders including peptic ulcer disease  irritable bowel syndrome  antibiotic- associated diarrhea  chemotherapy-induced gas- trointestinal mucositis  and inflammatory bowel disease IBD .IBD refers to a group of inflammatory disorders that affect various anatomic locations of the gastrointestinal tract.

More research is certainly needed to understand the mechanism by which Candida and other members of the mycobiome are associated with in- creased susceptibility andor protection from gastro- intestinal GVHD and other transplant-related outcomes as is the case with the bacterial component of themicrobiome which has a firmly established role in the pathogenesis of GVHD.CONCLUSION AND FUTURE DIRECTIONSSome researchers coined the term second genome to underscore the importance of the microbiota and its collective metagenome on their host's health andor disease.

Whereas healthy controls were colonized by C. tropicalis IBD patients had a higher di- versity of Candida and other species namely C. trop- icalis C. glabrata C. krusei Candida guilliermondii Candida kefyr and Geotrichium candidum .

The microbiome diversity and abundance analysis re- vealed a distinct microbiome profile in the CD and non- diseased first-degree relative samples compared to thenon-CD unrelated samples .

In recognition projects were launched nationally and internationally to unify effortsto characterize the microbiome and elucidate the functional role of the microbiota and the mechanisms by which these organisms and their metabolites metabolome may affect health and disease states.

