gpr43-deficient mice are obese when fed a chow diet and mice overexpressing gpr43 specifically in the adipose tissue are resistant to dio when fed an hfd 32. scfa-mediated activation of gpr43 in the adipose tissue suppresses insulin signaling and de- creases lipid storage in the adipocytes as well as increases the oxidation of lipids in other tissues resulting in in- creased energy expenditure 32. the body weight pheno- types in mice overexpressing gpr43 in adipose tissue and mice lacking gpr43 require the presence of microbes 32.in addition to gpr43 scfas also act on gpr41 which is highly expressed in the adipose tissue as well as in a subset of enteroendocrine cells in the gut epithelium 31 33. while conv-r mice lacking gpr41 are leaner than wild-type mice such a weight difference is not ob- served when the mice are kept under gf conditions 33. activation of gpr41 in adipose tissue by scfas has been shown to stimulate leptin expression in vitro and oral administration of propionate increases the circulating levels of leptin 34. in line with these results gpr41- deficient mice had diminished circulating leptin levels in proportion to their fat mass an effect that is abolished when the mice lack a microbiota 33. in addition to these effects on leptin levels the conv-r gpr41-deficient mice had reduced expression of the pyy gene encoding for the enteroendocrine hormone pyy.

furthermore cohousing mice that received a gut microbiota from obese donors with mice that re- ceived a gut microbiota from lean donors led to a reduced increase in adiposity in the mice colonized with the gut microbiota from the obese donors 13. the cecal micro- biota in the mice colonized with gut microbiota from obese donors changed after cohousing becoming more similar to that in mice colonized with gut microbiota from lean donors.

thus conv-r mice which have reduced levels of tauro- conjugated beta- and alpha-muricholic acids have in- creased fibroblast growth factor 15 fgf15 expression in the intestine reduced expression of cholesterol 7a-hy- droxylase cyp7a1 in the liver and a reduced enterohe- patic bile acid pool compared to gf mice 41. further- more the microbiota affects the whole body metabolism via fxr signaling while conv-r wild-type mice devel- op dio when fed an hfd conv-r fxr-- mice and gf mice are resistant to dio 42. conv-r wild-type mice fed an hfd also develop adipose tissue inflammation and hepatic steatosis but these phenotypes are not present in fxr-- mice or in gf mice fed an hfd.

interestingly when recipient mice were trans- planted with gut microbiota from lard-fed or fish oil-fed mice and then subsequently fed a lard-based hfd the mice receiving gut microbiota from fish oil-fed mice had reduced weight gain and diminished adipose tissue in- flammation compared to those receiving gut microbiota from lard-fed mice.evidence suggests that the increased circulating lps levels after high-fat feeding could be the result of a more permeable intestinal barrier.

the transplantation of human fecal microbiota from lean and obese donors to recipient mice also transferred the obese phenotype 13. while the fat mass of mice transplanted with gut microbiota from obese donors had increased 2 weeks after colonization that of mice trans- planted with gut microbiota from lean donors did not increase.

collectively these findings suggest that the gut microbiota plays a role in the regulation of energy balance and the development of obesity.the gut microbiota and the host's energy balancegf mice are lean compared to conventionally raised conv-r mice and colonization of gf mice leads to rapid weight gain and an increase in adiposity 14. part of this increase in body weight and adiposity can be ex- plained by a microbe-mediated increase in energy uptake.

this increased energy harvest has been estimated to account for 10 of the energy intake in peo- ple living in the western world 15. colonization exper- iments further highlight the importance of the increased energy harvest it has been shown that colonization of gf mice leads to increased body weight and adiposity even though the colonized mice have a decreased food intake and an increased energy expenditure compared to gf mice 14. taken together these results suggest that the scfas produced by fermentation in humans and mice account for a substantial part of the energy uptake.

interestingly gf mice have been shown to have improved leptin sensitivity when compared to conv-r mice 21. intraperitoneal injection of leptin results in a greater weight loss in chow- fed gf mice when compared to conv-r mice.

thus even though gf and antibiotic-treated mice have a low concentration of scfas in the cecal con- tent due to reduced or absent fermentation these mice have a high colonic gcg expression and high plasma levels of glp-1 22. furthermore administration of scfas decreases colonic gcg expression in gf mice ex vivo and feeding an hfd normalizes this expression in vivo 22 supporting the idea that the energy availability regulates the gcg expression.

however the mi- crobiota-diet interaction is complex and the resistance to dio in mice lacking a microbiota depends on the com- position and fat source of the high-fat diet hfd 17. increased energy expenditure as well as increased fecal fat content and energy excretion contribute to the dio resistance in gf mice when fed a lard-based hfd.

in line with these results showing an increased energy expendi- ture in gf mice it was recently shown that mice lacking a microbiota i.e.

moreover fxr signaling changes the gut microbiota composition and colonization of gf mice with cecal content from an hfd- fed wild-type donor mouse leads to a greater weight gain than colonization of gf mice with cecal content from an hfd-fed fxr-- donor mouse.

furthermore obese humans and rodents have an altered gut microbiota composition with less phylo- geneic diversity compared to lean controls and transplanta- tion of the gut microbiota from obese subjects to germ-free mice can transfer the obese phenotype.

in particular the invasion by specific members of bacteroidetes from the lean microbiota to the mice colonized with the obese microbiota was as- sociated with the rescue of the obese phenotype.

in con- trast the cecal microbiota in mice colonized with a gut microbiota from lean donors remained stable after co- housing.

