the content of this manuscript is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the national institutes of healthedited by bodo niggemann introduction bronchiolitis is the most common lower respiratory infection in young children accounting for 18 of infant hospitalizations in the usa.1 while bronchiolitis is traditionally viewed as viral-induced inflammation of bronchioles recent studies suggest the presence ofabbreviations ci confidence interval los length-of-staya complex interplay among the virus pathogens airway microbiome and host immune response systems.2-5 of the various components of the host immune systems ccl5 is a b-chemokine chemoattrac- tant that via virus eg respiratory syncytial virus rsv6- and bacte- ria-induced activation of toll-like receptors in airway epithelia recruits a variety of innate and adaptive immune cells.7 studies have also shown that specific gut microbiota induce ccl5-driven inflam- mation in animal models.89 additionally we recently identified1796  c 2017 eaaci and john wiley and sons as.

2017721796-1800.among infants hospitalized for bronchiolitis severe bronchiolitis that those with specific nasopharyngeal airway microbiota hae- mophilus-dominant profile had the highest disease severity4 and that this association was observed only in those with low circulating cathelicidin levels.5 however interrelations between the microbiota and host immune response eg ccl5 within the airway niche were not investigated.

neverthe- less the study aim is not to evaluate the role of airway microbiota and ccl5 on the development of bronchiolitis but to investigate their integrated contributions to the disease severity among infants with bronchiolitis.

association of nasopha- ryngeal microbiota profiles with bronchiolitis severity in infants hos- pitalized for bronchiolitis.

in the current analysis we studied the same cohort of infants with severe bronchiolitis to determine the interaction between the nasopharyngeal microbiota and ccl5 with regard to the disease severity.

methods we analyzed data from a multicenter prospective cohort study of infants with severe bronchiolitis.

briefly this cohort study the 35th multicenter airway research collaboration marc-354 enrolled 1016 infants aged12 months hospitalized for bronchiolitis at 17 sites across 14 us states table s1 during the 2011-2014 winter seasons.

bronchiolitis was defined by the american academy of pediatrics guidelines.10 the institutional review board of every participating hospital approved the study.

results of 1016 infants with bronchiolitis 1005 98.9 met the 16s rrna gene sequencing quality control requirements for the analysis.

discussion in this multicenter cohort study of 1005 infants with severe bronchiolitis we found a statistically significant interaction between nasopharyngeal airway ccl5 and microbiota profiles with regard to the disease severity.

it is possible that a specific function not struc- ture of the airway microbiota through altering the expression of ccl5 locally influences bronchiolitis severity.

in mouse models reported that an aberrant gut microbiota changes local epithelial induction of ccl5 transcription as a downstream mecha- nism and leads to an exaggerated inflammatory response locally ie exacerbation of colitis.8 another mechanism is that airway ccl5 by recruiting a variety of immune cells modifies the airway microbiota and jointly contributes to the bronchiolitis pathobiology and host resilience.

despite this complexity the identification of significant interactions between the microbiota and ccl5 within the airway of infants with bronchiolitis is an important finding.

our data should facilitate mecha- nistic investigations into the complex cross talk among the respiratory viruses microbiota and host immune systems and help to define their integrated role in bronchiolitis pathobiology.this study has several potential limitations.

lastly even with our raciallyethnically and geo- graphically diverse us sample the inferences might not be generaliz- able beyond infants who had severe bronchiolitis.

