Thompson IIIDepartment of Medical Microbiology and Immunology University ofCalifornia e Davis Davis CA USADepartment of Internal Medicine Division of Infectious Diseases University of California Davis Medical Center Sacramento CA USAJ.M.

Whole metagenome sequence reads from sample MJ150-008 n 658 indicated the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus Cryptococcus laurentii and Mucor circinelloides all well- known causes of invasive fungal infections in immunocompro- mised hosts.We found numerous Gram-negative bacilli and fungal patho- gens contaminating medical marijuana.

Using both 16Sinternal transcribed spacer community analysis and metagenomics approaches we sought to define the potential infectious risks of marijuana.Twenty cannabis samples from different dispensaries in north- ern California were collected by Steep Hill Laboratories Berkeley CA and catalogued and their DNA was extracted using the Power- Soil DNA Isolation Kit MoBio Carlsbad CA.

Dennis A. Singapuri S. LibertiniDepartment of Medical Microbiology and Immunology University ofCalifornia e Davis Davis CA USAR.

The fungal commu- nities assessed by internal transcribed spacer gene sequence analysis and the bacterial communities from 16S sRNA gene were analysed using published methods e. More specific whole metagenome analyses were used to better understand the presence of distinct species within the microbiome .Internal transcribed spacer analysis resulted in 4000 total fungal taxonomic classifications.

These recommendations do not comment on the infectious risks of medical marijuanada substance now legal in 11 countriesdand used by 13 of the US population yearly.Medical marijuana obtained from dispensaries does not differ in form from recreational marijuana and consists of dried material from the Cannabis plant purchased in a variety of preparations.

Legalization has impacted the public's perception of safety  and inferences on safety are implied by the ability of physicians to write prescriptions for medical marijuana.The potential infectious risks of marijuana obtained from dis- pensaries has not been systematically evaluated and we believe that this unduly places patients unknowingly at risk for acqui- sition of severe infections.

These non-regulated products are often sold under the auspices of a dispensary which many patients may confuse with pharmacies inappropriately giving patients the sense of security they have with regulated medical products.It is our hope to educate practitioners about the potential risks until a comprehensive risk analysis can be performed.

These findings will allow us to more accurately predict the microbial risks posed by medical marijuana to our patients.

Tuscano Department of Internal Medicine Division of HematologyOncology University of California Davis Medical Center Sacramento CA USAM.

