potential therapeutic agents such as personalized probiotic and prebiotic supplements dietary interventions and fecal microbiota transplantation that can be used to reshape the gut microbiome represent a reasonable strategy in an era of personalized medicine.referencesfrederich m pirotte b fillet m de tullio p. metabolomics as a challenging approach for medicinal chemistry and personalized medicine.

6ejtahed--human microbiome and personalized medicinegut microbes.4 microbiomics has opened an entirely new field in personalized medicine.

the hmp has been described as experimental extension of the hgp.6 because studies have shown that dysbiosis which results in alterations in both structural and functional profiles of the human microbiota is major contributors to the pathogenesis of immune infectious and metabolic disorders modulation of microbiota could be effective in personalized medicine.5the interindividual variability in patients' responses to different drugs and diets has been documented.

20133416143295-298.ejtahed--human microbiome and personalized medicinealternative therapies novdec 2017 vol.

with regard to the role of gut microbiota in modulation of host metabolism novel therapeutic agents could be developed by modulating the gut microbiota.5 the human microbiome project hmp sponsored by the us national institutes of health was launched in 2007 with the goal of identifying and characterizing the microorganisms in association with human health or diseases.

this study revealed that personalized dietary interventions based on an algorithm that integrates clinical dietary lifestyle anthropometric and medical information and gut microbiome profile data induced lower postprandial glucose response in participants.

they showed the limited efficiency of universal dietary recommendations and the importance of personalized diets.7 the individual differences in metabolizing and detoxifying drugs have been revealed to be controlled by patient genetics.

however more attempts are needed to discover all potential beneficial and detrimental drug-microbe interactions with the target of developing personalized therapeutic agents aiming atincreasing drug bioavailability and decreasing drug toxicity.we can imagine a future in which routinely analyzing the microbiome allows us to predict individualized responses to different foods and drugs.

microbiome analysis of individualsmay be added to future routine personalized medicine protocols after comparing the costs and benefits of this technology.

personalized medicine is expensive and such approach may be considered a luxury in low- or middle-income countries.

personalized nutrition by prediction of glycemic responses.

the term gut pharmacomicrobiomics implies the effect of the gut microbiome on pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic processes through the secretion of drug structure-modifying enzymes secretion of metabolites interfering with drug metabolism modification of intestinal and liver enzymes and modulation of human metabolic genes expression.

moreover improved understanding of the human microbiome could lead to the development of novel therapeutic strategies for different diseases.

201659198649-8666.moraes f goes a. a decade of human genome project conclusion scientific diffusion about our genome knowledge.

2016486349-358.the human microbiome project consortium.

