the yeast pseudohyphal filaments attach to nematodes by a bifurcate basal cell and often are present in large numbers.the only other yeast holdfast known anchors schef- fersomyces pichia to the hindgut wall of passalid beetles .

fems yeast res 1177-185.suh s-o mchugh jv blackwell m. 2004. expansion of the candida tanzawaensis yeast clade 16 novel candida species from basidiocarp- feeding beetles.

these beetles have sometimes been called ambrosia beetles although they are better known as ship-timber beetles.

the paper marked the beginning of a new era in yeast systematics and with that start yeast biologists have gone on to sequence many genes and entire genomes e.g.

information derived from fungal genomes however indicates that not only was the genetic information to determine yeast growth present early in the divergence of the fungal lineage but a conserved genetic toolkit for the yeast factor persisted in many fungal lineages.

in addition to a core group of yeasts associated only with the sonoran desert however some yeasts are more widespread.phylogenetic methods have helped to settle some questions of the origin of the desert yeast communities which likely are descended from local yeast communities in slime fluxes and fruit rots that evolved as the desertfigure 6 pselaphacus nigropunctatus a species of beetle erotylidae with parental care red speckled adult beside a late instar larva grub on white basidiocarp of a wood-decaying fungus in bolivia.

several other yeast clades are associated with mushroom-feeding beetles6ascomycete yeasts and insectsfigure 7 the name of the yeast genus suhomyces recog- nizes dr. sung-oui suh for his studies of yeasts in the field and laboratory.

the yeasts have broad-10ascomycete yeasts and insectsspectrum detoxifying enzymes including ester hydro- lase glucosidase phosphatase and glutathione trans- ferase that they use to detoxify mycotoxins insecticides herbicides and even the organophosphorus insecticide parathion they used some of the compounds as sole carbon sources.escherich  first isolated yeast cells of s. buchneri from the drugstore beetle stegobium paniceum much later a related yeast s. kochii was isolated from the cigarette beetle l. serricorne  .

cactaceae and insect walk plates from the flower-visiting beetles in a number of noncontiguous regions including hawaii australia brazil costa rica arizona california and the great lakes region of the united states.in experiments with bagged morning glory flowers ascomycete yeast communities did not develop in the flowers indicating that insect dispersers were the source of yeasts.

in costa rica when yeasts from honeybees were compared to those of beetles visiting the same flowers the insects carried different yeast species notably starmerella spp.

the common yeast physiological attributes suggest a benefit to the beetles.

for example in a month-long study in panama nearly 30 of over 600 yeast strains collected from mushroom-feeding beetles were members of the s. tanzawaensis clade .

diuncus spp.. the beetles lack mycangia7blackwellfigure 8 four yeast biologists l. to r. drs.

for example the xylose- fermenting yeast genus scheffersomyces is attached to the hindgut wall by a holdfast  where thalli re- main attached in adult and larval beetles as food passes through the gut .

the yeast communities however are fairly stable and present in the gut of all larval and adult wood-feeding beetles that have been examined   .saccharomyces cerevisiaein the gut of paper waspsin addition to the nutritional and antibiotic benefits of bacteria in the gut of insects gut conditions in some insects were described as favorable for bacterial conju- gation and therefore as hotspots for bacterial gene transfer .

