only a few groups of phages encode their own multisubunit rnaps including lactococcus phage 1706 rhodococcus phage reqipepy6 bacillus phage spbeta thermus phages p74 and p23 and giant phages of pseudomonas 25-28. in most of these phages b and b' subunits are fused 2529 whereas in pseudomonas group phages each subunit is split into two proteins 28. the phage rnaps belong to diverged families that can be considered signatures of each respective phage group 2628. the crass-like family rnaps are even more extremely divergent than those of other phages.

abbreviations ssb single-stranded dna-binding protein sf1 sf1 helicase udg uracyl-dna glycosylase polb dna polymerase family b sf2 snf2-family helicase rect phage rect recombinase primase dnag family primase ligase atp-dependent dna ligase dnk deoxynucleoside monophosphate kinase thyx flavin-dependent thymidylate synthase gp157 siphovirus gp157 dutp dutpase n4gp49 phage protein of n4gp49sf6gp66 family repl plasmid replication initiation protein repl ihf integration host factor ihf subunit pd-d exk pd-dexk family nuclease reporg putative replisome organizer protein dnab dnab replicative dna helicase aaa aaa domain atpase riia riia-like protector protein riib riib-like protector protein nrdd anaerobic ribonucleoside-triphosphate reductase rnr anaerobic ribonucleoside-triphosphate reductase activating protein pola dna polymerase family a dpra dna processing protein dpra.

downstream of this module are the genes encoding predicted tail proteins and two proteins homologous to bacterial integration host factor ihf that is essential for chromatin packaging in bacteria and some phages 17 figure 2 table 1 supplementary table 2. the two most conserved tail proteins encoded by the crass-like group are homologous to tail components gp4 tubular tail protein and gp10 tail stabilization protein of bacteriophageyutin et al.page 4p22 18. in the same putative operon crassphage also encodes a homolog of the tail needle protein gp26 of phage p22.

an hhpred search initiated with the multiple alignment of the homologs of one of these large proteins crassphage gene 46 product identified a small region of similarity with the b'-subunit of the bacterial rna polymerase rnap which contained the signature catalytic loop with the metal-binding dxdxd motif 23 supplementary figure 3. detailed sequence analysis resulted in the identification of two additional conserved motifs typical of the rnap b subunit 23 suggesting that the two subunits are fused in this protein figure 4 and supplementary figure 3. although the similarity between these crass-like family protein sequences and the large rnap subunits was limited the strict conservation of several predicted key motifs that comprise the rnap catalytic site across the crass-like family the fusion of the putative homologs of two rnap subunits in a single large protein compatible with the combined lengths of the b and b' rnap subunits and the compatibility of the predicted secondary structure elements with the rnap core structure supplementary figure3 strongly suggest that the crass-like family phages encode an active rnap.the putative b-b' rnap fusion protein contains another large region of similarity with other phages which in some of them resides in a separate protein e.g.

we attempted to identify promoters of early and late genes of crass-like phages by searching the sequences upstream of the genes for potential conserved nucleotide motif but no such motifs were detected.the discovery of crassphage the most abundant virus in the human gut virome appeared particularly striking because the genome was terra incognita with few homologs detected in other viruses or bacteria and the virion proteins not identified 4. the present analysis changes this by showing that crassphage belongs to an expansive phage family that is only distantly related to other known phages and has unusual predicted features in particular a previously unknown putative mechanism of rnap maturation via polyprotein processing.the mcp of these phages a distinct form of the hk97 class of icosahedral capsid proteins 30 is now confidently predicted and amenable for experiments aimed at direct identification and characterization of the phage.

in crassphage group genomes the protease gene is embedded within a block of genes encoding putative additional tail components which are highly similar to homologs from uncharacterized prophages integrated in bacteroides genomes that are otherwise unrelated to crass-like phages figure 2 also see supplementary table 2. thus evolution of the crassphage group apparently involved relatively recent recombination with an unrelated prophage from the same hosts.the lytic replication module genes occupy about 30 kb on the opposite end of the genome from the capsid module and are transcribed towards the middle of genome figure 2. this module encodes a versatile suite of proteins implicated in dna replication and repair and shows a patchy gene distribution without a single universally conserved gene and a much greater variability within the crass-like family than the structural modules table 1 figure 3. the most conserved replicative gene is a predicted dnag family primase many crass- like family members also encode a putative superfamily 2 snf2 family helicase implicated in dna replication this helicase is inactivated in the crassphage subfamily as indicated by mutiple amino acid replacements in the catalytic sites an atp-dependent dna ligase a uracyl-dna glycosylase udg a flavin-dependent thymidylate synthase thyx and one or two diverged single-stranded dna-binding proteins ssb table 1 figure 3. thecrass-like family viruses encode one of the two distinct dna polymerases dnaps the crassphage clade has a family b dnap whereas the other family members have either a family b or a family a dnap or no dnap at all table 1 figure 3. evolutionary reconstruction suggests that the family a dnap is ancestral in crass-like phages and was lost or replaced with the family b dnap on several occasions supplementary figure 2. the only near universal replicative protein dna primase appears to be monophyletic in the crass-like family and forms a strongly supported clade with the primases of bacteroidetes supplementary figure 2. this is the only conserved crass-like family gene that shows a deep connection to bacteroidetes indicating that a founder crass-like phage acquired this gene from a bacteroidetes host and implying that the virus-host link is evolutionarily ancient.

a concatenated alignment of all 5 genes was used to construct a phylogenetic tree of the crass-like family which includes a strongly supported clade of crassphage relatives and several other distinct groups of predicted bacteriophages figure 1.. three of these groups included previously identified phages namely azobacteroides phage projpt-bp 13 flavobacterium psychrophilum phage fpv3 and cellulophaga phage phi142 widespread although apparently not highly abundant phages in the oceans 14. the same group that included the cellulophaga phage also contained the genome of the ias immunodeficiency-associated stool virus that is highly abundant in gut viromes of hiv-infected individuals15.

analysis of the protein sequences encoded in the crassphage genome failed to identify specific relationships with other bacteriophages 4. several proteins implicated in phage genome replication have been identified including a family b dna polymerase dnap a primase and a flavin-dependent thymidylate synthase but neither the major capsid protein nor other structural and morphogenetic proteins were detected.

these genes encode a predicted major capsid protein mcp of the hk97 fold portal protein large terminase subunit and two uncharacterized proteins that are conserved throughout thecrass-like family and given the consistent adjacency to the mcp could be components of the virion or the morphogenetic machinery table 1 figure 1 supplementary table 2 and supplementary note 1.despite the low sequence conservation even within the family and remote similarity to proteins from other phages the gene order in the capsid module of the crass-like family is nearly invariant figure 1 suggesting congruent evolution of these genes.

the additional domains of this protein could be involved in host recognition similarly to the tail spike protein of p22-like phages 20. some crass-like phages encode additional auxiliary proteins in the tail module e.g.

one of the isolated crass-like phages cellulophaga phage phi142 is indeed a typical podophage 14. unlike phages with long tails families myoviridae and syphoviridae p22-like phages do not encode maturation proteases 22 consistent with the apparent absence of such a protease among gene products of the crass-like phages.

the extracted protein sequences of the putative mcp homologs either complete proteins or fragments longer than 150 aa were clustered with blastclust at 90 identity aligned with muscle 35 and used for the phylogenetic reconstruction shown in supplementary figure 1.in addition other conserved crassphage proteins were searched against genbank databases by protein blast blastp and tblastn 33. these searches led to the identification of several complete and partial crass-like viral genomes in the nr database as well as several hundred crass-like contigs in the wgs databases supplementary figure 1 see for additional data.for in-depth analysis 37 representative genomes contigs were selected among the crass- like family members identified in the nr and wgs databases.

the original contigs used for these assemblies are listed in supplementary table 1.all representative genomes were translated using metagenemark 36. the set of open reading frames produced by this translation for crassphage was virtually identical to the original set that was produced using the glimmer software 37 all genes detected by metagenemark for which a function was predicted were represented also in the original glimmer translation 4 supplementary table 2. homologous protein sequences wereyutin et al.page 8aligned using muscle 35. in order to identify putative homologs outside the crass-like family the alignments of all conserved proteins were used as queries for psi-blast 33 and hhpred 34 searches.the analysis reported here differed from the original analysis of the crassphage genome in the following respects i expanded databases of genomic and metagenomics sequences were searched ii the updated versions of the psi-blast and hhpred software were used iii multiple alignments of crassphage proteins and their homologs rather than individual crassphage protein sequences were used to initiate the searches.

altogether we identified several hundred putative representatives of the crass-like phage family supplementary figure 1 37 diverse representatives for which nearly complete genomes were available were selected for in-depth analysis supplementary table 1. we then constructed multiple alignments of the crassphage proteins and their homologs and used these alignments as queries for profile-profile searches against a comprehensive collection of protein families using the hhpred software one of the most sensitive current methods for protein sequence analysis see methods for details.

gene53 product of azobacteroides phage projpt-bp1 figure 4. another protein conserved in most of the crass-like phages crassphage gene 47 is typically encoded next to or is fused to the b-b' rnap figure 4. most likely all three proteins are functionally linked and form a multisubunit rnap although no homologs of the gene 47 product were detected the size and association with the rnap subunits suggest that this could be a highly diverged a subunit.

