described the effects of dietary mycotoxins on gut microbiome.the source and level of dietary nutrients are likely to impact the gut microbial ecology and lead to intestinal diseases most of which are mediated by p53 signal pathway 6. liu et al.

5editorialeditorialimpacts and regulation of dietary nutrients on gut microbiome and immunitylong he meng han shabnam farrar and xi mathere is increasing evidence that ingested diet borne components are involved in the pathogenesis of disorders.

in recent years with the development of high-throughput sequencing technology more and more studies have suggested that dietary nutrients play important roles in animal intestinal bacteria composition and function 2.diet is the pivotal factor influencing the intestinal microbiota 3. hu et al.

reviewed how dietary additive probiotics modulate the intestinal microbiota.

also long-term dietary habits are a dominant force in determining the composition of an individual's gut microbiota 4. a particular change in diet can have a highly variable effect on different people owing to the individualized nature of their gut microbiota 5. han et al.

detailed the dietary fiber gap and host gut microbiota and du et al.

animal source proteins on the other hand have a significantly higher digestibility than vegetable source proteins and coincide with an increased level of aerobes and reduced frequency of post-weaning diarrhea 8. the proper balance of dietary protein and carbohydrate intake should be maintained as high protein diet causes an accumulation of undigested protein which could potentially increases protein-fermenting bacteria population while reducing probiotics.

reported the effects of environmental temperature and dietary fat content on heat production and substrate oxidation.

reviewed the effects of dietary non-fiber carbohydrates on composition and function of gut microbiome.

reviewed how dietary iron modulates gut microbial composition and function.

reported that supplementation of milky flavors improves the reproductive performance and gut function.in this theme issue we focus on the impact and regulation of dietary nutrients on gut microbiome and immunity as well as intestinal signaling pathway.

also suggestions about the source and supplementation of dietary nutrients will be discussed.1875-530517 58.00.00c 2017 bentham science publisherseditorialprotein  peptide letters 2017 vol.

cell 2016 164 337-340.fan p. li l. rezaei a. eslamfam s. che d. ma x. metabolites of dietary protein and peptides by intestinal microbes and their impacts on gut.curr.

nature 2010 464 59-65.chen j. li y. tian y. huang c. li d. zhong q. ma x. interaction between microbes and host intestinal health modulation by dietary nutrients and gut-brain-endocrine-immune axis.

