thereby numer- ous protease inhibitors are already used as medical treatments and many more are under development 11. protease inhibitors are divided into 79 fami- lies and expressed differently within life kingdom members 12-14. they are known for their physi- co- chemical properties their target proteases and inhibition specificities 15. ecotins belong to the family of serine protease inhibitors 16. theseaddress correspondence to this author at the umr 1319 micalis inra agroparistech universite paris-saclay microbiota intercation with human and animal team 78350 jouy-en-josas france e- mails e. maguin and m. rhimiproteins were previously reported from several microorganisms.

they are in- volved in many biological mechanisms including digestion 1 blood coagulation 2 apoptosis 3immunity 4 and tissue remodeling 4 5. home- ostasis disruption and deregulation of protease ac- tivity lead to numerous pathologic disorders such as cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases 6-8cancer 9 and neurological disorders 10. thus targeting proteases becomes more interesting as a promising therapeutic approach.

curr drugalam mn das p de t chakraborti t. identificationand characterization of a leishmania donovani serine protease inhibitor possible role in regulation of host serine proteases.

molecular recognition of chymo- trypsin by the serine protease inhibitor ecotin from yer-targets 2006 7 751-759.pejler g ronnberg e waern i wernersson s. mast cell proteases multifaceted regulators of inflammatory disease.

this ecotin belongs to the small protease inhibitors group 17 25. crystal- lographic analysis showed that ecotin has an unusu- al protease inhibitor structure with two antiparallel identical monomer interacting through their c- terminal region 26. ecotin binds two target prote- ases through the combination of primary and sec- ondary site surface loops fig.

coli strain which is produced in the periplasmic1872-208318100.00.00c 2018 bentham science publishersspace 17. the biochemical characterization of this protein revealed its efficiency to inhibit nu- merous eukaryotic serine proteases 17-19.furthermore many ecotins have been de- scribed from several pathogens including pseudo- monas aerogenosa pantoea citrea burkholderia pseudomallei leishmania donovani leishmania major and yersinia pestis.

2 16 31. such di- merization did not induce a major structural change but offered an appropriate orientation of the ecotins permitting their binding to proteases mainly those having chymotrypsin fold.

this special binding way confers to ecotin a high flexibility allowing the in- hibition of different proteases with different effi- ciencies including trypsin elastase rat mast cell chymase and fxiia 17-19. analysis of structure- function relationships of these proteins was per- formed by using several approaches including crys- tallography phage display and site-directed muta- genesis.

herein we classify these inhibitors into 4 classes table 1.blood anti-clotting effectecotin is an efficient inhibitor of human fxa fxiia and plasma kallikrein 18. it was demon- strated that these enzymes play a key role in the blood coagulation cascade leading to thrombosis disorders 31 34. furthermore targeting fxiia appeared as a promising strategy for stroke pre- vention associated with thromboembolic events 35. interestingly it was patented that recombi- nant ecotins have an anti-coagulation and an- tithrombotic potential in vitro and in vivo 36 37. in this context applicants proposed a pharmaceu- tical formulation providing ecotin as a therapeutic agent in a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer with a therapeutic amount as within a mammal showing an increase in fxa fxiia kallikerein activities 36.anti-viral infectionebola and marburg viruses are described to be amongst the most virulent pathogens for humans 38. actually clinical data proved that a simple con- tact with body fluids allows the infection with these virus which causes death within a few days 39 40. virus infection is characterized mainly by systemic inflammatory response hemorrhagic fever and coag- ulation abnormalities 39 41 42. a recent patent demonstrated that using engineered ecotins two se- lected mutants displayed a high efficiency to treat systemic inflammation in animal model observed in case of viral infection 43. moreover in this patent the inventors established that ecotin administration significantly increases the animal survival 43. the potential of such procedure takes more importance when one considers that its effectiveness was highest comparatively to the current standard anti- coagulation treatment 40. in addition to that in vivo efficacy against viral hemorrhagic fever obtained with ecotins was validated also by using ebola piginfected model 43. interestingly it was reported that ecotin from leishmania accerleartes the disease pro- gression and drives parasite survival through the in- hibition of the serine proteases from the host 44 45.fig.

47 demonstrated that this method allows the produc- tion of these proteins of interest in the e. coli periplasmic space with an attractive yield.due to their large and flexible interaction domain ecotins are also reported to be a powerful tool for identification of targeted proteases.

several patented ecotins mutants were generated using different mu- tagenesis procedures with high specificity towards many proteases such as trypsin elastase urokinase type plasminogen activator and factor ixa.

moreover the inventors suggested that such speci- ficities of ecotins could be a promising tool for the purification of these proteases 48.protease activity assayprotease activities are involved in several biologi- cal processes.

despite the limited available reports concerning ecotins the increase in their interest will certainly shed light in the near future on the relevance of these proteases inhibitors to set out original therapeutic strategies.ethics approval and consent to participatenot applicable.human and animal rightsno animalshumans were used for studies that are base of this research.consent for publicationnot applicable.conflict of interestthe authors declare no conflict of interest fi- nancial or otherwise.acknowledgementsthis work was supported by the french nation- al institute for agricultural research inra and the project cmcu-phc utique ndeg14g0816- campus france ndeg30666qm notably for the mo- bilities of na hm aj mr and em.references1goodman be.

proteases in blood clotting.

serine proteases of the human immune system in health and disease.

