the immunocytes of other organ systems require sufficient serotonin amounts for normal functioning 67. the importance of serotonin from the immunological viewpoint is highlighted by the fact that lymphocytes monocytes macrophages and dendritic cells have multiple serotonin receptors 64.apart from possessing a wide variety of serotonin receptors immune cells produce their own serotonin.

serotonin can both stimulate and block the functioning of immunocytes depending on the types of the serotonin receptors involved their degree of activation and the impact of the supplementary factors of the cell's micro-environment 65. for instance serotonin activates phagocytosis at low levels of interferon- ifn- in the medium but inhibits this process at high levels of ifn- 63. serotonin is a chemotactic factor for immune cells including neutrophils and eosinophils 63.tph-1-deficient mice that do not synthesize serotonin are distinguished from wild-type mice by a decreased level of intestinal inflammation.

receptors 5ht2 activate phosholipase c other types of receptors modulate adenylate cyclase activity and thereby change camp concentrations receptors 5ht1 4--7 3.3 5nt5a receptors inhibit and several other types of serotonin receptors activate the intracellular adenylate cyclase enzyme.in addition serotonin exerts a non-receptor effect called serotonylation on protein molecules by directly attaching to them.

the effects of serotonin are due to its binding to seven main receptor types that are called 5ht1--7 receptors 5ht1 include subtypes 5ht1a 5ht1b 5ht1c and 5ht1d receptors 5ht2 subtypes 5ht2a 5ht2b and 5ht2c 88. only receptors of the 5ht3 type are associated with ion channels while all other serotonin receptors are coupled with g proteins and act via secondary intracellular messengers.

when added to the nutrient medium serotonin stimulated the growth of some prokaryotes 30-32 and mycobiota representatives 32-34 see table 1. the stimulatory effect of serotonin on microbial growth rate might be due to the presence of serotonin receptors on their surface that could also bind related compounds such as indole.of relevance in this context are data on the inhibitory effect of compounds that suppress the re-uptake of serotonin by serotonin-releasing cells and thereby increase its extracellular concentration.

such cells use systems that enable serotonin uptake from the environment serotonin reverse transporter sert 65. other kinds of immunocytes including activated t cells express tph1 and are potentially capable of synthesizing their own serotonin 95.immune cells may possess several types of serotonin receptors.

it was established that the stimulation of 5ht7 receptors on naive t cells is necessary for the early stage of t lymphocyte activation.inhibiting serotonin synthesis with para-chlorophenylalanine results in disrupting t cell activation and proliferation 65 95. administration of para-chlorophenylalanine diminishes the intensity of the symptoms of dextrane sulfate-induced colitis and experimental pneumonia 67.intracellular serotonin can bind to the components of signal transduction pathways and this serotonylation affects their operation 89. intense re-uptake of serotonin was detected in immunocytes that contain the gtpases rhoa and rab4 which covalently bind serotonin.

this appears to be due to the decreased macrophagal infiltration of the intestine and the limited amount of pro-inflammatory cytokines in serotonin-deficient mice 63. th2 cell activation-related pathological processes such as colitis and atopic dermatitis are accompanied by an increase in serotonin level in the organism 63.as far as th1 cells-related disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis are concerned serotonin predominantly exerts an inflammation-limiting effect that can be due to the synthesis of prostaglandin e2 63. the presence of 5ht2 receptors on immune cells limits the activation of in vitro-stimulated macrophages 65. activation of 5ht1a receptors is mandatory for the proliferation of t lymphocytes and synthesis of inflammation mediators il-2 and ifn-g by them.

serotonin attenuates the virulence of the pathogen c. albicans 81.apart from responding to serotonin the microbiota produces physiologically significant concentrations of this neurotransmitter.serotonin production is sufficiently widely spread in the microbial world including the symbiotic and parasitic microbiota of the human organism 82- 83. serotonin was detected in the cells of bacillus subtilis and staphylococcus aureus 46. it was present at concentrations of  1 m which is close to its concentration in mammalian blood 0.5-1.5 m 84. the serotonin content may be still higher in the culture liquid of other bacteria.

in contrast activating presynaptic serotonin and postsynaptic dopamine receptors in the brain inhibits the immune system 155.microbial neuroactive peptides apart from affecting the immune system operation can modify animal and human behavior via their effects on the cns.

both immune and neuroendocrine cells express tyrosine hydroxylase and catecholamine-degrading enzymes such as the monoaminooxidase and the catechol-o- methyltransferase enzymes 77 78.dopamine receptors are expressed on the surface of all kinds of immune cells including t and b lymphocytes dendritic cells macrophages neutrophiles nk cells and t-regulatory cells 78. autoimmune leukemic and lymphoma t cells also express dopamine receptors.

for instance serotonin serotonylates small-size gtpase enzymes this process influences the transmission of cell signals in thrombocytes smooth muscle cells and the insulin-secreting cells of pancreas islets 89 90.serotonin decelerates the spreading of nerve impulses from a local focus thereby limiting the brain areas that are directly involved in perceiving a stimulus 52. lsd an antagonist of serotonin receptors 5-ht2 disrupts the perception process which results in illusions and hallucinations.serotonin is implicated in regulating the emotional state and memorization and learning processes.

there is a negative correlation between the brain serotonin level and such psychological states as depression and anxiety these states are mitigated by serotonin binding to receptors 5nt2a.

serotonin is a major neurotransmitter in the intestinal nervous system 80.role of serotonin in the immune system.

serotonin receptors are located on enterocytes neurons including those of the gi tract and immune cells.

