however so far7bakker and nieuwdorpno rct investigating fmt in cd patients has been published.of note use of fmt in ibd patients should be con- sidered with caution as in a small group of cd pa- tients adverse effects transient fever abdominal pains bloating and no clinical improvement with only tran- sient effects on the host's fecal microbial composition were reported upon three consecutive fmts.in conclusion fmt is a promising therapy for ibd patients that may lead to major improvements in patient care.

moreover five of five patients cleared methicillin-resistant staphy- lococcus aureus mrsa after three jejunal administra- tions of fmt  while a study using rbx2660 an experimental microbiota suspension for fmt in cdi patients showed that 8 of 11 vre-positive patients be- came negative after treatment.9bakker and nieuwdorpa search performed in december 2016 on revealed five trials that were under way to evaluate the effectivity of fmt against multidrug- resistant pathogens nct02312986 nct02543866 nct02461199 nct02390622 nct02472600.

for example in patients with gi motility disorders the lower gi ap- proach may be preferred while in patients with toxic megacolon or severe colitis the upper gi approach may be better suited due to the risk of colonic perforation.before administration bowel preparation with laxa- tives may be considered especially in the case of a lower gi approach.

the colonic microbiota of patients suffering from cdi is deficient in members of firmicutes and bacte- roidetes whereas proteobacteria species are enriched .historically the first-line treatment for patients withcdi has been metronidazole or vancomycin recently the more expensive fidaxomicin has also been approved for the treatment of cdi by the fda.

in 2012 a meta-analysis of fmt found a 63 remission rate in uc patients while 76 of ibd patients experienced afigure 1 causality of the gut microbiota in different diseases.

another meta-analysis of only cohort studies performed in 2014 found a clinical remission rate of 36 in ibd patients and 61 in cd patients.

notably the fecal suspension was either administered immedi- ately n  16 or stored at -20degc and later thawed n  22. there was a significant difference in the primary endpoint of a full mayo score of 3 and endoscopic mayo score of 0 at 7 weeks after the first fmt with nine patients 24 in the fmt group achieving the endpoint versus two patients 5 in the control group.

for example one donor donated 12 times for eight patients of whom four patients re- sponded to treatment.

moreover ibs patients have altered protein and carbohydrate energy metabolism within the gut  and increased amounts of acetic and propionic acids which are associated with both the se- verity of abdominal pain and bloating symptoms .a meta-analysis showed a positive effect of pro- biotics in ibs patients .

it was used to successfully treat patients who had food poisoning or severe diar- rhea.

during world war ii german soldiers in africa were recommended by bedouins to treat bacterial dysentery with consumption of fresh warm camel feces .the first description of fmt in modern medicine dates back to 1958. dr. ben eiseman an american surgeon used fecal enemas to treat four patients who had developed fulminant pseudomembranous entero- colitis after antibiotic use the treatment resulted in a rapid resolution of symptoms .

although not known as a cause at that time it is likely that these patients were suffering from cdi.

in 2013 the first randomized con- trolled trial rct using fmt in cdi patients was pub- lished .

in the case of administration via enema patients should be instructed to hold the infusate for at least 30 min and to remain supine to minimize the urge to defecate.

in the case of cdi antibiotics should not be given on the day of fmt but pretreat- ment with antibiotics for 3 to 5 days prior to fmt can be considered.safetywhen adhering to screening guidelines fmt has been shown to be a relatively safe procedure even in im- munocompromised patients .

