these guidance documents pro- vide sponsors with additional information regarding how to complete their ind application and comply with the ind regulations 21 cfr part 312.the following fda websites are a good place to startwhen planning to submit an ind application 2live biotherapeutic products as drugs u.s. regulatory considerationsone important benefit of initiating the ind process is early communication with the fda.

while the vast majority of lbps in clinical trials to date are those that are most like commercially avail-able probiotic organisms sold over the counter  we recognize that we are entering a new age in which investigations of novel strains will be sought.clinical investigations with live biotherapeutic productsand the ind processby law any substance that is intended for use in the diagnosis cure mitigation treatment or prevention of disease meets the definition of a drug under section 201g1b of the food drug and cosmetic act  and cannot be introduced into interstate commerce un- less it is either approved for such use by the fda or an investigational new drug ind application is in effect .

additional fda guidance on when an ind is required can be found in investigational new drug applications inds determining whether hu- man research studies can be conducted without an ind .

in the context of ind applications the sponsor is the investigator or company that submits the ind to the fda.

the fda also encourages sponsors planning to submit an ind to request a pre- ind meeting with the agency.

other publications offer insights for in- vestigators and clinicians for preparing the ind package itself including examples of what to include for each section of the ind  .

investigators preparing to submit an ind for fda review often seek additional guidance regarding current good manufacturing practice cgmp requirements during the ind process.

by law any substance intended for use in the diagnosis cure mitigation treatment or prevention of disease in humans meets the definition of a drug and an investigational new drug ind application for clinical investigation must be filed with the fda.

this article is meant to provide information about the ind submission process and additional considerations with regard to chemistry manufacturing and controls information for live biotherapeutic products.introductionour expanding knowledge of the nature and impor- tance of the human microbiota has provided additional impetus to investigate the use of beneficial bacteria to promote improved health.

therefore clinical studies investigating lbps with the intended use to diagnose cure mitigate treat or prevent disease in humans must be pursued through the ind process.

lbps are regulated by cber within the fda and licen- sure is attained by approval of a biologics license ap- plication.multiple fda resources are available to help spon- sors navigate the ind application process.

the fda has published several guidance documents regarding the ind application process procedures and reporting requirements.

the pre-ind process allows the sponsor to receive fda feedback prior to submitting an ind application.

sponsors submit relevant information and ask specific questions regarding their proposed clinical study and information to be included in the initial ind application including supportive preclinical and chemistry manufacturing and controls cmc data.

in terms of what cmc in- formation to include in an ind for a clinical study using an lbp cber refers sponsors to the guidance docu- ment guidance for industry early clinical trials with live biotherapeutic products chemistry manufactur- ing and control information .

