........fi....fi... ..c .c fi ...fi.fi.. ..................fl....fl.e ...fifl.......fi.

3p30-gm118430 2p30 dk072476 and p50at002776-11.the authors report no biomedical financial interests or potential conflicts of interest.article informationfrom the pennington biomedical research center louisiana state uni- versity system baton rouge louisiana.address correspondence to annadora j. bruce-keller ph.d. penning- ton biomedical research center louisiana state university system 6400 perkins road baton rouge la 70808 e-mail .received may 5 2017 revised jul 26 2017 accepted aug 20 2017.references..........fi...fi....flfl......fl...fi.

................fi ........ .fi.fi..fl..fi.

... fi..fl.......fl.fl.fl.fl...fl.fl.fl ..... .

fl......fl....... fl.

intestinal dysbiosis is also linked to behavioral impairment  stimulating extensive research into the role of gut microbiota in mental and neurological health.a pivotal early study on gut microbiota and neurobehavioral function revealed that germ-free mice lacking intestinal and other microbiota display maladaptive and exaggerated responses to stress that can be normalized by probiotic- induced intestinal recolonization .

this well-controlled and thoroughtable 1. conceptual and technical knowledge gaps and potential experimental resolution in the development of microbiome-based therapies for mental healthkey open questionspromising experimental approachesdoes intestinal dysbiosis impair mental health andor do mental health conditions disrupt intestinal microbiotawhich microbes have the capacity to drive disease and which are merely ancillarywhat are the mechanisms whereby altered microbiota disrupt brain functioncan fecal samples adequately reflect intestinal microbiota across proximal-distal and luminal-mucosal axesunder what conditions are microbiome-based therapeutics fmt probiotics or prebiotics beneficial for mental healthanimal studies rigorously designed studies following nih guidelines with regard to control subjects statistical power and biological variables in which microbiota are transplanted from diseased mice to healthy mice to determine if the phenotype is reproduced and from healthy mice to diseased mice to determine if phenotype is reversed.human studies rct of microbiome-based therapies in affected patients to test for efficacy see question 5.animal and human studies systematic unbiased approach to identify taxa in which enrichment andor depletion is associated with a specific phenotype across models depends in part on resolution of question 4.animal studies rigorously designed studies using genetic surgical or pharmacological means to interrupt key signaling pathways e.g.

fi......... fi.

intestinal microbiota influence the generation maturation and function of numerous immune cells which in turn modify the balance and metabolic activity of intestinal microbes .

with regard todiet-induced intestinal inflammation dietary fats particularly trans and saturated fats have been shown to transiently in- crease intestinal inflammation even in healthy subjects  which in turn alters gut microbial populations by decreasing commensal i.e.

indeed increases in intestinal pro- teobacteria are associated with intestinal permeability and circulating endotoxin  which are in turn linked to brain inflammation and neurobehavioral dysfunction .

collectively these data indicate that intestinal dysbiosis and increased intestinal inflammation can synergis- tically drive a cascade of local-to-systemic inflammation.therapeutic manipulation of gut microbiotadiet qualitystudies show that the effects of diet on the human gut microbiome are rapid and driven by quality and quantity of dietary fat and carbohydrates .

experimental and clinical data regarding means of therapeutic manipulation of gut microbiota as a novel treatment option for mental health are described and important knowledge gaps are identified and discussed.keywords depression gut dysbiosis gut-brain axis mental health microbiota transplant probiotics introduction and historical contextgut microbiota comprise all microorganisms inhabiting the intestinal tract and their respective genomes.

experimental and clinical studies suggest that disruption to gut microbiota can impair physical and mental health  suggesting that intestinal microbiota could underlie host susceptibility to illness .

links between microbiota and pathophysiology have triggered an explosion of interest in this field with 85 of the more than 10000 pubmed publications on intestinal microbiota arising in the last 5 years currently averaging about five new publications per day.

