significance testing was performed using the permutational multivariate analysis of variance permanova test in the clc software.finally the highly abundant taxa mean abundance  0.1 oftotal number of otus were pairwise compared with regard to sample type and response to treatment at phylum and genus level using a generalized linear model assuming read counts that follow a negative binomial distribution and with a dispersion corrections similar to the edger method 33. significance testing was conduc- ted using a false discovery rate fdr corrected p-value of 0.05.resultsnbuvb treatmenttwenty-six participants received a mean of 21.2 uvb treatments range 9-26 table i. the mean -sd pasi before treatment was 8.0 - 4.5 and after treatment 2.1 - 1.8. mean -sd target psi before treatment was 5.2 - 1.4 and after treatment 1.1 -1.4. the mean-sd pasi improvement was 69.9 -23.1 and target psi improvement 76.5 -30.1. response to treatment was defined as achieving at least a 75 reduction in the psi score of the target lesion from the start to the end of the trial named target psi75.

these results suggest that skin microbiome alterations after uvb treatment could be related to treatment and treatment response.key words psoriasis microbiome uvb treatment.

they found psoriatic ear sites to have decreased diversity and associated lesional skin with an increased abundance of staphylococcus but no specific biomarker indicative of disease was identified 23.narrowband ultraviolet b radiation nbuvb is a common treatment for patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis 24. uvb treatment of patients with atopic dermatitis has been shown to reduce skin-surface bacteria mainly the s. aureus count in several studies 25-27. uv radiation uv-r is known to trigger the production and release of antimicrobial peptides affect the innate immune system and ultimately suppress the adaptive cel- lular immune response 28 29. however so far nothing is known about the effect of nbuvb treatment on the skin microbiome in patients with psoriasis.the aim of this study is to analyse differences in the microbiome between lesional and non-lesional skin in patients with chronic plaque psoriasis and to investigate changes in the microbiome in these patients after nbuvb treatment.

a correlation between psoriasis and area severity index pasi before narrowband ultraviolet b nbuvb treatment pasi pre and shannon index before treatment shannon index pre spearman's r-0.55 p  0.01. b correlation between psoriasis severity index psi target lesion before nbuvb treatment and shannon index pre spearman's r-0.46 and p 0.05 n  26 dotted line 0.95 confidence interval.of otus and no significant differences were found in the alpha diversity fig.

after treatment lesional skin had significantly higher levels of actinomyces fdr p  0.05 and lower levels of paracoccus fdr p  0.05 compared with non-lesional skin.effect of nbuvb treatmentnbuvb treatment led to an increase in the relative abun- dance of the genus clostridium and a decrease in the relative abundance of the genus pseudomonas in both le- sional fdr p  0.01 and fdr p  0.001 and non-lesional skin fdr p  0.05 and fdr p  0.001 and an increase in the relative abundance of the genus megasphaera in non-lesional skin fdr p  0.05.p  0.05 and no correlation between target psi and shan- non diversity index after treatment r  -0.09 and p  0.05.a 10.9b 1cyanobacteria 0.9distribution of the bacterial microbiome of the skinthe majority of the bacteria fall into 3 dominating phyla firmicutes actinobacteria and proteobacteria fig.

we chose to relate our data to target psi since the treatment response and microbiome correlation in the target lesion is clinically more relevant than comparing with whole-skin pasi and we chose achieving  75 improvement in psi in the target lesion as the definition of treatment respon- ders since pasi75 is an established definition of treatment response.

if differences in the skin microbiota between responders and non-responders to specific treatment can be confirmed in larger studies this could be used in the future to individualize treatment of psoriatic patients leading to better treatment results.acknowledgementsthis study was supported by grants from the swedish psoriasis foundation and from futurum the academy of healthcare county council of jonkoping sweden.

furthermore this study was designed to in- vestigate to what extent responding to nbuvb treatment altered the skin microbiome.methodsstudy subjectsa total of 30 patients with plaque type psoriasis with indication for nbuvb treatment were enrolled in this prospective study.

the patients were treated with nbuvb according to clinic protocol and after completing the treatment new samples were taken from the same areas as before treatment and pasi and target lesion psi was assessed again.

when a previous treatment resulted in erythema no treatment was given the next day or the dose was decreased depending on whether the erythema was asymptomatic or severe and painful.table i. patients' demographic data and psoriasis and area severity index pasi and target psoriasis severity index psi response after completed narrowband ultraviolet b nbuvb treatmentaresponders are defined as achieving at least a 75 reduction in the psi score of the target lesion from the start to the end of the trial.sd standard deviation.430m.

2b spearman's r -0.46 and p  0.05. our results revealed no correlation between pasi and shannon diversity index after nbuvb treatment r -0.37 andbefore uvb treatment fdr p  0.01 fig.

a bar chart of relative abundance of genus level in lesional l and non-lesional nl skin before pre and after post narrowband ultraviolet b nbuvb treatment n  26. b bar chart of relative abundance of genus levels in lesional and non-lesional skin before pre and after post nbuvb treatment in target lesion responders r n  19 and non-responders n n  7. c significant differences shown for staphylococcus finegoldia anaerococcus peptoniphilus gardnerella prevotella and clostridium bar mean  standard deviation false discovery rate fdr p  0.05. fdr p  0.01.distribution in nbuvb responders and non-respondersdividing patients into responders and non-responders revealed differences in the composition of the bacterial microbiome shown in fig.

5c compared with non-responders.on genus level before nbuvb treatment responders had significantly lower relative abundance of dermacoc- cus and acinetobacter in both lesional fdr p  0.05 and fdr p  0.01 and non-lesional skin fdr p  0.05for both and staphylococcus in non-lesional skin fdr p  0.05. the nbuvb treatment led to a significant de- crease in pseudomonas in both lesional fdr p  0.001 and non-lesional skin fdr p  0.01 of responders with no significant difference in non-responders.

it also increased significantly in both lesional and non-lesional skin after nbuvb treatment suggesting that immune- modulating effect of clostridium is impacted by nbuvb treatment.

it can be speculated that a higher abundance of acinetobacter and dermacoccus is a negative prognostic factor for nbuvb treatment in psoriasis but further studiesare needed to confirm this.the dysbiosis we see in our study in non-responders after nbuvb treatment might be a result of the lack of uvb efficacy or more interestingly the dysbiosis in itself could be responsible for the reduced effect of uvb.

