ckd can be divided into five stages based on the glomerular filtration rate with the first four corresponding to nondialysis ckd 1.cardiovascular disease cvd is the major cause of death in ckd patients and in addition to the traditional and nontraditional risk factors and situations specific to kidney disease an imbalance of gut microbiota seems to be the new risk factor associated with many complications in these patients 2-4.gut microbiota act as a 'metabolic organ' that interacts with the host for a mutually beneficial coexistence and has an important role in health and disease 5. under physiologic conditions eubiosis gut microbiota promotes several benefits to the host 6-8. in contrast numerous diseases including ckd are associated with gut microbiota imbalance called dysbiosis 49-11 which in turn seems to be associated with immunosuppression infection uremic toxins production inflammation oxidative stress and insulin resistance 12-15. these complications promote progressive kidney failure and cvd 16.there are several hypotheses that can explain the alterations in the composition and function of gut microbiota in ckd patients such as uremia type of diet impaired protein absorption medications slow colon transit metabolic acidosis and gut wall edema 1417. nevertheless the main cause leading to dysbiosis in these patients still remains unknown.simenhoff et al.

a decade afterwards this group redefined its definition as a selectively fermented ingredient that allows specific changes both in the composition andor activity in the gastrointestinal microflora that confer benefits upon host well-being and health 59. this definition was further improved so that a prebiotic is actually a selectively fermented ingredient that results in specific changes in the composition andor activity of the gastrointestinal microbiota thus conferring benefits upon host health 26.to be classified as a prebiotic a food ingredient must be resistant to gastric acidity hydrolysis by enzymes and absorption in the gi tract fermented by gut microbiota and able to selectively stimulate the growth andor activity of gut bacteria that are potentially associated with health and well-being 5859. by extension prebiotics can be referred to as fructo-oligosaccharides galacto-oligosaccharides oligofructose fructans such as inulin rs and lactulose among others 2628. all of them occur naturally in many fruits cereals and vegetables and in human milk 2629 as shown in table 1.the selective prebiotic fermentation by gut microbiota is capable of modulating the composition of colonic microbiota and stimulating bifidobacteria growth 28. new evidence of in vitro studies has proposed that the fermentation of prebiotics by bifidobacteria leads to the elimination of free radicals 27. gut fermentation fromprebiotics results in scfa production which is involved in the improvement of glycaemia and insulin resistance by the secretion of glp-1 the improvement of dyslipidemia the reduction of hunger and an increased feeling of satiety by a rise in pyy secretion the attenuation of immunomodulatory effects the maintenance of gut barrier integrity and thus the reduction of lps and uremic toxin levels by translocation into the bloodstream which may reduce oxidative stress and inflammation states 627-2960. moreover prebiotic fermentation and scfa production can inhibit the growth of pathogenic organisms by reducing luminal and fecal ph.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in future microbiology  october 2017doi 10.2217fmb-2017-0059citations2reads515 authors including9 publications 27 citations442 publications 10195 citations154 publications 1581 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsgut microbiota and ckd ckd-mbd all content following this page was uploaded by on 24 april 2018.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.reviewfor reprint orders please contact short-chain fatty acids a link between prebiotics and microbiota in chronic kidney diseasemarta esgalhado1 julie a kemp2 nagila rt damasceno3 denis fouque4  denise mafra121graduate program in cardiovascular sciences fluminense federal university uff nitero' i rio de janeiro brazil2graduate program in medical sciences fluminense federal university uff nitero' i rio de janeiro brazil3department of nutrition faculty of public health nutrition sa o paulo university sa o paulo brazil4department of nephrology centre hospitalier lyon sud university lyon ucbl inserm carmen cens f-69622 lyon france author for correspondence under physiologic conditions the human gut microbiota performs several activities essential to the body health.

indeed ckd gut microbiota has been shown to be colonized by bacterial families that produce urease and other toxins in the gut lumen causing its imbalance 10. since that study some nonpharmacological interventions such as the use of prebiotics probiotics or symbiotics a combination of pre and probiotics have emerged as attractive strategies to modify the negative effects provoked by gut microbiota imbalance in these patients 18-25.prebiotics are currently defined as a selectively fermented ingredient that results in specific changes in the composition andor activity of the gastrointestinal microbiota thus conferring benefits upon host health 26. these nondigestible compounds seem to mainly improve the gut barrier's integrity and function.

indeed bacteria are no longer considered simply commensal but rather they are considered organisms that determine many aspects related to health and disease 36.under physiologic conditions eubiosis human gut microbiota influence the well-being of the host by con- tributing to its metabolism physiology nutrition and immune function 68. in contrast its imbalance also known as dysbiosis can promote a cascade of metabolic abnormalities including infection inflammation oxidative stress and insulin resistance 540415. dysbiosis condition leads to the modification of the epithelial junctions responsible for the structure of the intestinal barrier which increase the permeability of the intestinal barrier and thereby an increase in the translocation of products generated by gut bacteria mainly lipopolysaccharides lps to the blood- stream 540415. when lps bind to tlr4 on macrophages and monocytes they initiate a signaling cascade that leads to proinflammatory gene activation including cytokines such as il-1 and il-6 tnf-a and chemokines through nuclear factors such as nf-b protein activator-1 and interferon and promote endothelial damage through the generation of reactive oxygen species ros 40-42. an exacerbation of ros production increases the binding between lps and tlr4 43 establishing a vicious cycle between inflammation and oxidative stress.gut microbiota in chronic kidney diseaseseveral authors have shown that ckd patients present alterations in their gut microbiota profiles and gut bar- rier 249-11. these alterations are associated with inflammatory-oxidative stress cycle as previously explained.in 1996 hida et al.

2 observed a different microbiota between nondialysis ckd patients flavobacteriaceae bacterium and listeria monocytogenes and healthy individuals lachnospiraceae bacterium and butyrivibriocrossotus.there are several hypotheses that may explain the imbalance of gut microbiota in ckd patients such asexposure to various factors inherent to the disease like malnutrition edema constipation and stress which can reduce intestinal blood flow and transit in the colon thereby triggering atrophy of the intestinal barrier and increasing gut-barrier permeability 415.increased urea influx from the bloodstream to the intestinal lumen can alter gut microbiota profile which leads to the production of protein-bound molecules through protein fermentation such as indoxyl sulfate is p-cresyl sulfate pcs and indole-3-acetic acid iaa 3101447. these uremic toxins tend to accumulate in ckd patients once they cannot be excreted through the urine or cannot be efficiently eliminated by dialysis modalities so they are called uremic toxins due to their negative impact on the body 31447. like lps uremic toxins are also able to increase the risk for cvd and ckd progression exacerbating the inflammatory cascade through intensified ros production 48 and endothelial dysfunction worsening the atherosclerotic process 474950. several studies have demonstrated the role of is in the inflammatory response through its ability to activate the p65 subunit of nf-b consequence of the activation of nadph oxidase which originates ros 5051. indeed borges et al.

thus gut microbiota consists of the organisms that live in the human intestine 33.the composition of the microflora of humans begins to form at birth and it is highly diverse between individuals in response to genetics childbirth diet antibiotic use age and lifestyle 534-36. the human gut has between 10 and 100 trillion microorganisms most of which are anaerobic 95 of total organisms in addition it is the largest and most diverse microbial ecosystem of the human body possessing approximately 500-1000 bacterial species 33.compositionthe microorganism population of the human gut has several phyla including firmicutes bacteroidetes acti- nobacteria proteobacteria verrucomicrobia cyanobacteria fusobacteria and spirochaetes 6. among these there are two phyla that stand out firmicutes bacteria gram-positive strict anaerobic - ruminococcus clostridium lactobacillus eubacterium faecalibacterium and roseburia and bacteroidetes bacteria gram-negative strictly anaerobic - bacteroides prevotella and xylanibacter 633. according to several researchers the balance among specific members of these phyla is important to maintaining the composition and function of the gut microbiota which may be altered by factors such as a sedentary lifestyle stress antibiotics alcohol and dietary nutrients 3738. indeed obese individuals seem to have fewer members of bacteroidetes and more members of firmicutes than lean individuals.

the relative abundance of bacteroidetes has also been linked to the total fecal propionate concentration suggesting that the succinate pathway is the dominant route in gut microbiota 30. finally thefigure 1. short-chain fatty acid and its gut microbiota production pathways.acetate is formed directly from acetyl-coa hydrolysis or via wood-ljungdahl pathway when methanogens grow on h2 co2 in which co2 is reduced to co and when combined with methyl group and coash produce acetyl-coa.propionate is formed through lactate reduction to acrylate wich is converted by lactoyl-coa dehydratase activity acrylate pathway through the succinate decarboxylation pathway or through the conversion of deoxy-sugars by coa-dependent propionaldehyde dehydrogenase propanodiol pathway.

in fact scfa production favors the maintenance and development of beneficial microbiota and healthy colonic epithelial cells conferring benefits upon the host's well-being and health in general 3066-67.in summary scfa production through prebiotics fermentation in the distal gut may be a useful and effec- tive tool to modulate gut microbiota and minimize the deleterious effects caused by its imbalance and thereby promote improved host health and well-being.

104 517-526 2015.related gut microbiota profile in chronic kidney disease ckd patients with cardiovascular risk.mafra d lobo jc barros af koppe l vaziri nd fouque d. role of altered intestinal microbiota in systemic inflammation and cardiovascular disease in chronic kidney disease.

numerous diseases including chronic kidney disease are associated with gut microbiota imbalance and among several strategies to re-establish gut symbiosis prebiotics seem to represent an effective nonpharmacological approach.

prebiotics fermentation by gut microbiota produce short-chain fatty acids which improve the gut barrier integrity and function and modulate the glucose and lipid metabolism as well as the inflammatory response and immune system.

therefore this literature review intends to discuss the beneficial effects of prebiotics in human health through short-chain fatty acids production with a particular interest on chronic kidney disease.first draft submitted 4 april 2017 accepted for publication 18 july 2017 published online 13 october2017keywords chronic kidney disease  gut microbiota  prebiotic  short-chain fatty acidschronic kidney disease ckd is a clinical syndrome characterized by the progressive and irreversible loss of renal function.

11 were the first to demonstrate altered gut microbiota in ckd patients in the 1970s.

these carbohydrates include rs nonstarch polysaccharides nondigestible oligosac- charides and sugar alcohols 29303266. this complex reaction is carried out by a rich diverse bacterial ecosystem in the large intestine such as anaerobic bacteroides bifidobacteria eubacteria streptococci and lactobacilli 3132. additionally nondigested proteins or peptides might also be fermented by the bacterial ecosystem into scfas mainly via acetate and propionate production 303266. furthermore it has been shown that fatty acid oxidation and amino acid and glucose metabolism can also produce scfas 32.in a normal human physiologic state 90-95 of the scfas present in the colon and in the general systemic circulation are constituted by acetate propionate and butyrate with intraluminal concentrations of approximately 60 c2 25 c3 and 15 c4 3132. by extension most biological studies have focused on these three scfas which will also be the focus of this review.short-chain fatty acid production by the gut microbiotatwo main metabolic routes have been described for acetate production by the gut microbiota figure 1a.

