clinicoecon outcomes res 2013 5369-379.136volume 20  number 2  march 2017influence of nutrition therapy on microbiome krezalek et al.harvey se parrott f harrison da et al.

curr opin clin nutr metab care 2017 20131-137 doi10.1097mco.00000000000003481363-1950 copyright c 2017 wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.nutrition and the intensive care unitlooking at surgically altered intestinal microbiome following weight-loss surgery tremaroli et al.

in one such study david et al.

wu et al.

chassaing et al.

these changes are further associated with profound immune activation which may further predispose to the development of systemic complications 117research has shown that the intestinal microbiome of the critically ill displays a near com- plete loss of health-promoting microbiota with overgrowth of healthcare-associated pathogenic microorganisms with high-virulence potential 181920 mcdonald et al.

we have also recently characterized the microbiota of critically ill patients and similarlyshowed a loss of diversity in addition to a loss of the unique microbial signatures of different body sites which were more likely to be dominated by patho- gens 21furthermore the reduction of intestinal microbial diversity has been shown to be predictive of mortality in the critically ill earley et al.

hayakawa et al.

prescott et al.

early research associated parenteral nutrition with high rates of complications specifically those of infectious nature and current guidelines do not recommend initiating parenteral nutrition earlier than 7 days from onset of acute illness 36paren- teral nutrition has long been thought to be associ- ated with dysbiosis of the intestinal microflora dysfunction of the intestinal innate immune sys- tem and decreased barrier function of the intestinal mucosa 31wan et al.

to this point harvey et al.

a recently published rct by zeng et al.

in fact a large multicenter rct propatria published by besselink et al.

the content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the national institutes of health.conflicts of interestthere are no conflicts of interest.references and recommended readingpapers of particular interest published within the annual period of review havebeen highlighted asof special interest of outstanding interestkrezalek ma defazio j zaborina o et al.

it describes how intestinal bacteria are able to propagate a pathologic host immune response to critical illness leading to mods.yatsunenko t rey fe manary mj et al.

