in general bacterial strains isolated from p6-p10 morgat were more involved in antagonistic interactions asproducer or inhibited mainly those strains isolated from sea urchin stomach.among isolates p1-p5 from aber eight of the strains isolated of intestine were involved in at least one antagonis- tic interaction four strains as antimicrobial producers and four strains as inhibited by the activity of at least one other strain fig.

f shows otus shared by both gastrointestinal tract sections and both collect sites of the sea urchins.antagonistic interactions among bacterial isolatesthe 180 bacterial strains tables1 were selected and screened for antimicrobial substance production by cross- inhibition tests among bacteria isolated from the sea urchins collected from the same location aber p1-p5 strains or morgat p6-p10 strains.

no strains from sea urchin stomach was observed as producer or inhibited.among strains isolated p6-p10 from morgat 35 were involved in at least one antagonistic interaction being 13 strains as antimicrobial producers and 30 strains as inhibited by the activity of at least one other strain fig.

hereafter bacterial strains tested for antimicrobial substance production will be termed producer strains whereas those used as targets will be called indicator or inhibited strains.

the strains were named with the p letter plus 1-5 for bacteria isolated from the sea urchin samples collected from aber or 6-10 from morgat plus e for bacteria isolated from the stomach or i for bacteria isolated from the intestine of the sea urchins finally followed by the order of isolation of colony-forming units cfus.

among the chosen isolates from the sea urchins 208 strains p1-p5 from the aber site being 85 from the stomach e and 123 from the intestine i sections and 159 strains p6-p10 from the morgat site being 85 from e and 74 from i sections.on the basis of morphological characteristics 180 strains were selected and sequenced based on 16s rrna gene sequences targeting the v3-v5 region.

two strains p5i -23 otu32 and -29 otu25 both affiliated to the genus psychro- bacter were strong producers against strains isolated from other sea urchin samples peptoclostridium p2i-2 out unassigned and p3i-5 otu11 and vibrionaceae p3i-12 otu8.

color figure onlinestrains isolated from the intestine sections were only inhib- ited while eight strains isolated from the stomach sections were classified as active and inhibited.

so 367 bacterial strains were isolated on marine-agar.

strains isolated from the same bacterial genus have the same fill color.

these comprised the phylogenetic composition of the culturable community determination of specific and common symbionts across gastrointestinal tract stomach andor intestine andor col- lected site aber andor morgat by otu networking and venn diagrams.antagonistic interactions among bacterial isolatesassays for antagonistic interactions were performed in trip- licate among the bacterial strains taxonomically identified and the bacteria were screened for antimicrobial substance production using a method previously described .

twenty bacterial otus remained unassigned at the phylum level and 74 otus were assigned to three bacterial phyla proteobacteria 64 firmicutes 9 and actinobacteria 1. the most abundant bacterial phylum class order family and genus overall were proteobacteria gammaproteobacteria pseudomonadales moraxellaceae and psychrobacter respectively.

interestingly in the samples from aber strains belonging to the family vibrionaceae associated to the bald sea urchin disease see above were inhibited by strains of the genus psychro- bacter.

here in addition to these genera exiguobacterium strains were also very active against the other marine strains.our data demonstrated that the antagonistic interaction is present among the isolates from all sea urchin samples however this activity was more intense among isolates from morgat with emphasis on the strains shewanella p9e-9 and p10e-5.

from the antagonistic interactions assays it could be determined that 22.7 strains were positive for at least one antagonism interaction 18.3 of them isolated from the sea urchins collected in morgat.

