all rights reserved.introductionirritable bowel syndrome ibs refers to a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder currently defined by the rome iii criteria including abdominal pain or dis- comfort associated with altered bowel habits without or- ganic abnormalities 1. in the absence of a well-estab- lished therapeutic approach approximately 15 of ibs patients consult a physician and usually seek alternative strategies such as probiotics for symptom relief 2-4. probiotics are defined by the food and agriculture or- ganization of the united nations and the world health organization fao - who as live micro-organisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit to the host 5. randomized clinical tri- als rct have already shown that intake of probiotics such as lactic acid bacteria lab could be of thera- peutic interest by preventing infectious diarrhea and possibly by modifying gut microbiota to improve ibs122symptoms 4 6-12. despite excellent safety profile of lab and their demonstrated mechanisms of action ac- cording to in-vitro and in-vivo studies suggesting their benefits in ibs the rationale of their use is limited by the low number of high-level quality rct especially in western ibs patient's population 4 10-24. lactoba- cilli have generally-regarded-as-safe gras status 13. their cell wall components via tlr26 signaling pathway have demonstrated immunoregulatory proper- ties 13. lactobacillus acidophilus l. acidophilus is one of the most predominant probiotic species resid- ing in the gastrointestinal tract 15. however only 2 rct using l. acidophilus strains have been reported in the symptomatic treatment of ibs 21 24. the first one with a 2-strain mixture of l. acidophilus-sdc 2012 2013 significantly reduced abdominal pain com- pared with placebo after 4 weeks in a pilot rct 21. the second rct using a dose-response design did not highlight significant benefits of 12 weeks of treatmentwith l. acidophilus ncfm strain compared with pla- cebo to alleviate ibs symptoms 24. abdominal pain discomfort was decreased by the probiotic only in a subgroup of patients suffering from moderate to severe pain 24. although modest this latter study is consist- ent with data in human ht-29 epithelial cells and in a rat model of chronic colonic hypersensitivity which showed that a direct contact of l. acidophilus ncfm modulates and restores a normal perception of visceral pain by inducing analgesic m-opioid receptor 1 mor1 and cannabinoid receptor 2 cb2 cellular expression through the nf-kb pathway 14. preclinical studies with proven probiotic efficacy and known mechanisms of action should be important for the choice of probi- otic strains.

pre- vious rct with ibs patients tried to prove the benefits of lactobacilli in ibs symptoms management but most suffered from methodological limitations 4 17-24. in- deed among the 9 rct to improve ibs symptoms in adults patients with lactobacilli probiotics only 4 have enrolled patients according with rome iii criteria while previous rct selected participants diagnosed with ibs according to either author-defined ibs criteria or rome i and ii 4 17-24. rome iii criteria are the standard today for rct performed among ibs patients 1. we used the jadad score and a standard method of ensuring allocation concealment to characterize their quality in terms of clinical methodology 39. the jadad score ranging from 0 to 5 could be used to assess the meth- odological quality of clinical trials.

the study design was also adaptive with an interim analysis after the first sixty patients were included 75 of the overall participants providing enough accuracy according to the positive results of a previous rct us- ing probiotics in 60 ibs patients 4. the study flow chart is shown in figure 2.trial objectivesprimary objectivethe main objective of the trial is to assess the effica- cy of the probiotics mixture to relieve abdominal pain discomfort symptom in patients suffering from ibs in comparison with a placebo group after 8 weeks of prod-uct consumption.secondary objectivesthe secondary objectives are to assess the effect ofthe probiotics mixtureto relieve bloating flatusgas and rumbling symptomson the composite scoreon the stool frequency and consistency.an assessment of safety and tolerability was also performed throughout the course of the study.

of 10 points the sam- ple size needs to be 23 patients in each group to see these differences with a error  0.05 and at a statisti- cal power of 90. by considering the risk that 40 of the patients included could not be assessed at the end of the study it was necessary to include 40 patients per group 18. given the risk of failure at the selection it was planned to include 10 of subjects more than nec- essary hence a maximum of 88 subjects to obtain 80 as- sessable subjects was recruited.

strains l. acidophilus-sdc 2012 2013 has showed a significant improvement of abdominal pain discomfort p0.003 over 4 weeks of treatment at the daily dosage of 2.109 cfu per day 21. although meth- odology limitations of this pilot rct the reduction in abdominal paindiscomfort as primary endpoint exceed- ing the placebo score by more than 20 suggests an additional effect of two strains of the same species with- out opposite effects known 21. moreover mucosal im- munity activation associated with a low-grade inflam- mation and increased intestinal permeability could be involved in visceral hypersensitivity observed in ibs patients 47-51. l. acidophilus lafti l10 has been able to improve symptoms similar to ibs symptoms in healthy subjects with gastro-intestinal disturbances 27. according to the efsa guidance on the scientific requirements for health claims related to the immune system the gastrointestinal tract and defence against pathogenic microorganisms published in 2016 abdomi- nal pain or discomfort could occur both in healthy peo- ple and ibs patients however higher frequency and greater severity of symptoms were found in ibs patients 36. further preclinical studies have demonstrated thatl.

finally we use a two-stage adaptive design used for ethical reasons that allows adjustments after the re- view of the interim analysis as shown in figure 2. in summary according to the hypothesis that abdominal paindiscomfort results from a visceral hypersensitivity in ibs we expect that our study demonstrates that the present mixture of probiotic strains of l. acidophilus significantly reduced abdominal pain and improved oth- ers secondary endpoints such as other ibs symptoms and bowel habits.limitations of the studyin order to confirm the efficacy of probiotics as a well-established therapeutic approach in the manage- ment of ibs symptoms further investigations will be needed by performing other large-scale studies in ac- cordance with efsa guidance to evidence health-claimsrelated to gastrointestinal discomfort or bowel function 36. a longer period of analysis could be necessary to substantiate the clinical effects over time.

this latter strain l. acidophilus lafti l10 exhibits gut immunoregulatory properties and proved survival in human gastrointestinal tract as well as an improvement of symptoms in healthy subjects similar to those observed in ibs 25-27. both strains are also probiotics with approved safety and fermentative prop- erties 27-29. thus the aim of the current study is to test with the highest methodology the hypothesis that a consumption for 8 weeks of a mixture of two l. acido- philus probiotic strains selected for their strain-specific properties could result in an improvement of abdominal paindiscomfort as well as other ibs symptoms such as bloating flatus rumbling and bowel habits including stool frequency and consistencyappearance.materials and methods trial designthe design of this protocol refers to a multicentredouble-blind placebo-controlled two-armed parallel design individually randomized trial comparing pro- biotics with placebo in patients with ibs.

with a ibs-sss pain score vas  35100table 2. characteristics of randomized clinical trials performed among irritable bowel syndrome ibs patients investigating benefits oflactobacillus strains with probiotic properties.trialdiagnostic criteria and designsize nprobioticsdaily dosage and durationjadad scorenobaek et al.

2003 175643-50.nobaek s johansson ml molin g ahrne s jeppsson b. altera- tion of intestinal microflora is associated with reduction in abdomi- nal bloating and pain in patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

2013 349277-87.samadikuchaksaraei a gholipourmalekabadi m saberian m abdollahpour alitappeh m shahidi delshad e. how does the su- pernatant of lactobacillus acidophilus affect the proliferation and differentiation activities of rat bone marrow-derived stromal cells cellular and molecular biology 2016 62101-6.niedzielin k kordecki h birkenfeld b. a controlled double- blind randomized study on the efficacy of lactobacillus plantarum 299v in patients with irritable bowel syndrome.

european journal of gastroenterology and hepatology 2001 13101143-7.niv e naftali t hallak r vaisman n. the efficacy of lactoba- cillus reuteri atcc 55730 in the treatment of patients with irritable bowel syndrome - a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized study.

2006 1301t2043.sinn dh song jh kim hj lee jh son hj chang dk kim yh kim jj rhee jc rhee pl.. therapeutic effect of lactobacillus acidophilus-sdc 2012 2013 in patients with irritable bowel syn- drome.

2001 632108-15.wahnschaffe u schulzke jd zeitz m ullrich r. predictors of clinical response to gluten-free diet in patients diagnosed with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.

furthermore as outlined by efsa guidelines these patients are considered as an appropri- ate study group to substantiate health claims on gastro-intestinal discomfort intended for the general popula- tion 36. taking into account the results from previous studies investigating the effects of different strains of the genus lactobacillus in patients with ibs a particu- lar attention has been paid to the daily dosage of 5x109 cfucapsule twice a day 19 21. moreover in order to assess the kinetic effect of the probiotic mixture one intermediate visit at 4 weeks allows us to perform a r- anova analysis in order to test the product effect be- tween-subject effect the time effect within-subject ef- fect as well as interactions between the two types of effects product x time.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in cellular and molecular biology noisy-le-grand france  september 2017doi 10.14715cmb2017.63.9.21citations0reads438 authors including bg clinicals37 publications 753 citations capionis27 publications 104 citations 114 publications 1528 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectshao ling tea and cholesterol cardiopulmonary exercise testing in the evaluation of functional capacity after treatment of lymphomas in adults all content following this page was uploaded by on 28 may 2018.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.cellular and molecular biologye-issn  1165-158x  p-issn  0145-5680lactobacillus acidophilus versus placebo in the symptomatic treatment of irritable bowel syndrome the lapibss randomized trials.

