ursodeoxycholic acid udca it was later discovered that bile acids are not simply passive bystanders but are signaling molecules that participate in maintaining their own homeostasis 9. in animal models udca has been demonstrated to have effects on the secretion of bile acids through ca2 protein kinase c mitogen-activated protein kinase- and integrin-dependent mechanisms leading to an increase in bile salt export pump bsep and multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 mrp2 10-14. udca also stimulates hco - secretion potentiating the 'biliary hco - umbrella' a constitutive mechanism that protects cholangiocytes from the injurious effects of hydrophobic bile 1516. it has negligible effects on the synthesis of bile acids 17.despite numerous studies on the utility of the synthetic bile acid udca in psc its use remains highly controversial 1819. clearly high-dose udca 28-30 mgkgday worsens outcomes with greater progression to liver transplantation and the development of varices despite biochemical improvement in serum alp highlighting the uncertainty of alp as a surrogate marker 20. furthermore despite studies demonstrating that lower doses of udca 13-25 mgkgday are associated with significant improvement in serum alp - these studies failed to demonstrate improvements in transplant-free survival 2122.significantly stratification of patients into those with or without improvement in alp i.e.

fxr is expressed in the liver and the small intestine highest levels in the terminal ileum 5. activation of fxr inhibits cyp7a1 the rate limiting step of bile acid production both directly through translational activation of the short heterodimer protein shp as well as indirectly through the release of fibroblast growth factor fgf-19 which binds to fgf-4 on hepatocytes and leads to additional cyp7a1 inhibition 53839. oca also decreases exposure to toxic bilecheung et al.page 4by upregulating bsep mdr23 mrp2 and ostab which leads to increased canalicular bile secretion 40-42. and finally oca also induces the expression of sult2a1 and ugt1a1 4344. these processes combined should limit hepatocyte accumulation of toxic bile acids thereby reducing liver injury and potentially ameliorating the pathogenesis of psc.fibratesfibrates are peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ppar agonists that were originally designed for treatment of hyperlipidemia and have recently been reviewed as potential therapies in cholestatic liver disease 45. each fibrate has a different affinity for individual ppar receptors of which there are three isoforms a bd and g with bezafibrate having equal activity with all three isoforms and fenofibrate having 10-fold higher selectivity for ppar-a than ppar-g 46. ppars act as ligand-activated transcription factors and once activated they form a heterodimer with the retinoid x receptor and bind distinct dna- response elements 45. similar to oca fibrates can downregulate bile acid synthesis by suppressing cyp7a1 and cyp27a1 and stimulate cannalicular secretion by increasing expression of mdr23 mrp2 45. fibrates may also act similarly to norudca by upregulating bile acid detoxification enzymes such as ugt1a1 and sult2a1 45.two pilot studies evaluating the efficacy of fibrates in psc have been published 4748. together these include 21 patients treated over 6-12 months.

normalization or a drop in alp to 1.5 times the upper limit of normal demonstrate that patients have improved survival regardless of whether this biochemical change occurs spontaneously or following treatment with udca 23-242526. due to the uncertainty around the true effect of udca and the lack of a biomarker that may identify those who are more likely to have a biochemical response to udca the use of udca in psc remains controversial 18192728. in children the association between alp and outcomes is even less clear as alp levels vary with both age and sex due to fluctuations in the bone-derivedcheung et al.page 3isoenzyme 29. the experience with udca highlights the difficulty in designing psc trials and the vulnerability of relying on a surrogate biomarker such as alp.emerging therapies and trialsthe following sections will outline the novel therapies currently under investigation for psc starting with those that modulate bile acids followed by those that modulate the microbiome immunomodulatory processes and finally fibrogenesis.norursodeoxycholic acid24-norursodeoxycholic acid norudca dr falk pharma gmbh freiburg baden- wurttemberg germany is a derivative of udca that lacks a methylene group providing resistance to conjugation with taurine or glycine 30. as a weak acid unconjugated norudca can be passively absorbed by cholangiocytes and secreted by hepatocytes unlike udca which in its unconjugated form can only be absorbed through the apical sodium bile acid transporter asbt 31. this allows norudca to efficiently avoid full enterohepatic circulation instead undergoing a process called 'cholehepatic shunting' in which bile acids are reabsorbed by cholangiocytes and returned to hepatocytes rather than undergoing active transport across the terminal ileum 3233. this leads to significantly greater choleresis than with udca 32. in addition nor-udca causes choleresis of more hydrophobic bile with a significant increase in biliary glutathioine and bicarbonate secretion in mouse models 34. unlike udca norudca can also increase the expression of basolateral efflux pumps i.e.

ae2 cl-hco3- anion exchanger 2 asbt apical sodium-bile acid transporter asbt- apical sodium-bile acid transporter inhibitor ba bile acids bsep bile salt export pump cacl ca2-dependent chloridechannel cb conjugated bilirubin cftr cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator fgf19 fibroblast growth factor 19 fgfr4 fibroblast growth factor receptor 4 fxr farsenoid x receptor mdr23 multidrug resistance 23 mrp2 multidrug resistance- associated protein 2 mrp3 multidrug resistance-associated protein 3 mrp4 multidrug resistance-associated protein 4 ntcp sodiumtaurocholate cotransporting polypeptide norudca 24-norursodeoxycholic acid oca obetichoic acid ostab organic solute transporter ab pc phosphatidylcholine psc primary sclerosing cholangitis rxr retinoid x receptor sult2a1 sulfotransferase family 2a member 1 udca ursodeoxycholic acid ugt1a1 uridine diphosphate-glucoronosyltransferase family 1 member a1.

asbt apical sodium-bile acid transporter asbt- apical sodium-bile acid transporter inhibitor ba bile acids bsep bile salt export pump cacl ca2-dependent chloride channel cftr cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator fxr farsenoid x receptor mdr23 multidrug resistance 23 mrp2 multidrug resistance- associated protein 2 mrp3 multidrug resistance-associated protein 3 mrp4 multidrug resistance-associated protein 4 norudca 24-norursodeoxycholic acid oca obetichoic acid ostab organic solute transporter ab psc primary sclerosing cholangitis rxr retinoid x receptor sult2a1 sulfotransferase family 2a member 1 udca ursodeoxycholic acid ugt1a1 uridine diphosphate- glucoronosyltransferase family 1 member a1.

larger placebo-controlled studies are warranted.apical sodium bile acid transporter inhibitorsbile acids undergo enterohepatic circulation with reabsorption of more than 95 of bile acids occurring at the terminal ileum via asbt in the brush border membrane 49. two animal studies involving mdr2-- mice have demonstrated that asbt inhibitors reduce serum bile acid levels and profibrogenic gene expression while improving hepatic biochemical profiles i.e.

2016 64674-681. this study of mdr2-- mice demonstrated that pharmacologic inhibition of apical sodium bile acid transporter asbt results in a reduction of bile acid secretion alp aspartate aminotransferase hepatic expression of proinflammatory and profibrogenic markers leading to decreased histologic evidence of bile duct injury and fibrosis.

also we need the capability to identify patients with rapidly progressive disease and preferentially enroll these patients into clinical trials.lessons from ursodeoxycholic acid studiesalthough originally administration of exogenous bile acid therapy was postulated to replace toxic endogenous bile with a more nontoxic form i.e.

thus norudca may be a promising treatment for psc due to its apparent lack of toxicity and greater choleretic effects when compared with udca a phase iii study is necessary to examine the effectiveness of this drug in psc.obeticholic acidin 2016 obeticholic acid oca intercept pharmaceuticals new york city new york united states was approved for use in primary biliary cholangitis a cholestatic liver disease of presumed autoimmune origin that afflicts the interlobular and septal bile ducts it is currently undergoing investigation in psc nct02177136 36. oca a ligand for the farnesoid x receptor fxr has over 100 times greater potency for fxr than its endogenous analog chenodeoxycholic acid 37. oca is postulated to reduce toxic bile production and induce secretion through fxr-mediated pathways.

hypercholeresis induced by unconjugated bile acid infusion correlates with recovery in bile of unconjugated bile acids.

differential expression of cholangiocyte and ileal bile acid transporters following bile acid supplementation and depletion.

alp and alt 5051. a phase 2 study of an asbt inhibitor shp625lum001 lumena pharmaceuticals san diego california united states in psc demonstrated significant reductions in bile acids from baseline but no significant change in alp and other liver biochemistries nct02061540 52.antimicrobial therapy and modulation of the microbiome the 'leaky gut' hypothesisfailure of the intestinal barrier is posited to lead to bacterial translocation into the classically sterile portal and biliary system via the gut-liver axis thereby exposing biliary epithelium to foreign microbial antigens 53. supportive evidence for this hypothesis includes studies demonstrating the presence of bacteria in the bile of explanted livers as well as the presence of helicobacter pylori in hilar hepatic ducts and antibodies against chlamydia species lipopolysaccharide in the sera of psc patients 54-57.exposure to bacterial products triggers pattern recognition receptors such as toll-like receptors causing cholangiocytes to assume an activated phenotype leading to the release of cytokines and chemokines like tnf-a il-6 and il-8 as well as growth factors and othercheung et al.page 5signaling molecules 58. this proinflammatory state may precipitate cholestasis and periductular fibrosis 58.in turn bacteria that comprise the intestinal microbiome may be influenced by bile composition.

recently it has been demonstrated that increases in taurocholic acid secretion induced by a diet high in milk-fat may potentiate an abundance of bilophila wadsworthia a sulphate-reducing bacteria associated with ulcerative colitis 59. this suggests that changes in bile acid composition may alter the intestinal microbiota and lead to dysbiosis an aberrant microbial ecology that may cause disease through alterations in immune homeostasis 60.in addition to their antimicrobial effects antibiotics such as minocycline have been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties that may provide additional therapeutic actions in psc.

kinetics of hepatic bile acid handling in cholestatic liver disease effect of ursodeoxycholic acid.

inhibition of intestinal bile acid absorption improves cholestatic liver and bile duct injury in a mouse model of sclerosing cholangitis.

