in many immunology experiments even in the situation where some immunologists misunderstand that lymph nodes are connected with blood vessels the misconception affects neither experimental results nor their interpre- tation in most cases.lymphatic system in immunopathologydr al-kofahi and colleagues from dr j. steven alexan- der's group excellently reviewed the anatomy and func- tions of the lymphatic system particularly in the gastrointestinal tract the heart and the central nervous system.3 during acute microbial infection lymphatic flow is increased in the infected tissue limiting edema as well as providing more soluble microbial antigens and antigen-laden dendritic cells into the regional lymph nodes for antigen-presentation.

for example as reviewed by dr kutsuna zika virus infection has been associated with two neurological complications microcephaly and guillain-barr'e syndrome gbs.1 microcephaly can be caused by direct microbial infection viral replication in the brain viral pathol- ogy while gbs is an antibody-mediated immunopathology zika virus induced-gbs might be heterogenous a group of patients had a parainfec- tious onset not a postinfectious onset typically seen in gbs.2two systems affect microbial pathology and immunopathologyalthough a variety of factors can affect immunopathology triggered by microbial infections two essential systems maintaining whole-body home- ostasis have long been neglected in the field the lym- phatic system and microbiota.

have shown that dysfunction of lymphatic vessels can contribute to prolonged inflam- mation in inflammatory bowel diseases such as crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis as well as myocarditis using a mouse model induced with theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus.4 furthermore dr alexander's group previously showed that downregulation of a set of serum lymphatic markers such as prospero home- obox 1 and angiopoietin-2 might be characteristic of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis ms here lymphatic-specific molecules can be biomarkers to distinguish between secondary progressive ms and relapsing-remitting ms.5c 2017 japanese society for neuroimmunology177editorialgut microbiota in immunopathology and neuropathologyin biomedical education the gut microbiota has also been taught in association with only limited subjects such as production of vitamin k and clostridium diffi- cile-induced pseudomembranous colitis.

in contrast h. pylori isassociated with exacerbation of neuromyelitis optica nmo and alzheimer's disease ad.the above contrasting roles of h. pylori can be explained when comparing and contrasting i antimicrobial immune responses versus immunopathology and ii cellular immunitypro- inflammatory t helper th1 and th17 cells versus humoral immunityanti-inflammatory th2 and regu- latory t cells.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in clinical and experimental neuroimmunology  august 2017doi 10.1111cen3.12405citations0reads211 author 146 publications 2330 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectstheiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus tmev-induced demyelinating disease tmevidd kindai university internationalization all content following this page was uploaded by on 30 august 2017.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.clinical and experimental neuroimmunology 8 2017 177-179editorial lymphatic system and gut microbiota affect immunopathology of neuroinflammatory diseases including multiple sclerosis neuromyelitis optica and alzheimer's diseaseinfections with microbes such as viruses and bacte- ria result in damage of the peripheral nervous sys- tem or the central nervous system either by microbial replication in the nervous tissues micro- bial pathology or by uncontrolled immune responses immunopathology.

suppression of pro-inflammatory t cells in chronic h. pylori infection might explain a lack of t-cell infiltration in the brain lesions of ad despite activation of resident innate cells including microglia whereas h. pylori infection can also contribute to dysfunction of the blood-brain barrier observed in ad.10 pitfalls of microbiota studiesoversimplification andor overestimation of the roles of the gut bacterial community bacteriome in microbiota studies can be explained by 10 pitfalls of microbiome studies proposed by dr park et al.

dysfunction of lymphatics blocks the exit of inflammatory cells from the tissue leading to chronic inflam- mation andor immunopathology such as multiple sclerosis in the brain where the presence of the lymphatic system has been proposed recently.

although the lymphatic system and microbiota have been described in most medical textbooks of anatomy immunology and microbiology their roles in immunopathology associated with microbial infections had not been investigated until recently.

left lymphatic vessels drain immune cells and edema fluid from inflamed tissues into regional lymph nodes.

il-1b reduces tonic contraction of mesenteric lymphatic muscle cells with the involvement of cycloxygenase-2 and prostaglan- din e2.

however when hosts failed to eradicate h. pylori to prevent uncontrolled pro-inflammatory responses that can cause gastritis the immune response is skewed to anti-inflamma- tory which protects immunopathology at the expense of bacterial persistence.

here sup- pression of th1th17 is protective against ms whereas enhanced humoral responses play no role in eradicating h. pylori but might lead to antibody- mediated autoimmune diseases such as idiopathicfigure 1 lymphatic system and gut microbiota in neuroinflammatory diseases.

although involvement of the lymphatics and microbiota in microbial immunopathology is intuitively plausible the reason why they have long been neglected by pathologists might due to their invisibility in routine hema- toxylin-eosin-stained sections.

right good bacteria in the gut microbiota as well as chronic helicobacter pylori infection change the t helper th cell subset balance toward regu- latory t cells tregsth2 responses.

as the antibody against h. pylori has no role in bacterial clear- ance the suppression of anti-bacterial th1th17 immunity leads to h. pylori persistence which has been associated with blood-brain barrier bbb dysfunction.

