no study has yet reported the ability of live probiotics alone to reduce high bp in humans though such studies are required to estab- lish the direct effects of probiotics in mitigating the condition.recombinant probiotics with antihypertensive effectsace inhibitory peptides released after probiotic fermentation are usually difficult to purify from the digested mixture.

more studies are required to ascertain the possible safety concerns that may arise from consuming re- combinant probiotics before they can be used in human studies.conclusionthe evidence that high bp is associated with gut dysbiosis makes it important to establish the ability of probiotics to reduce high bp in humans.

the potential of recombinant antihypertensive probiotics to reduce bp has also been discussed.probiotics hypercholesterolemia and hypertensionthere is a large pool of evidence to show that high bp and high total cholesterol are linked -.

since reduction in total and low-density lipoprotein cho- lesterol reduce bp   the administration of cholesterol- lowering probiotics may be effective in protecting against or reducing high bp.

recombinant probiotics could be a cheap and dependable source of antihypertensive peptides since the use of wild probiotics is tedious and may not be reproducible.

probiotic capsules    and the ability of probiotics in combination with their fermented products to control high bp  have shown positive effects.

recent studies have discovered new functional properties of probiotics that affect bp.

in hypertensive patients dietary calcium absorption leads to a calcium-induced suppression of renin and inhibition of extracellular calcium uptake resulting in a lowered bp .since controlling the risk factors associated with primary hypertension is critical in preventing andmanaging the dis- ease the following section discusses our current knowledge on the roles of probiotics and their fermented products in controlling cholesterol levels inflammation and the renin- angiotensin system in the effort to reduce hypertension.

several other hypotheses such as binding of cholesterol to probiotic cellular surface and subsequent incorporation into their cell membrane to influence their membrane fluidity  and coprecipitation of cholesterol with deconjugated bile have been proposed as possible mechanisms by which probiotics reduce cholesterol and prevent cholesterol-associated diseases such as high bp .

relative to the control group indicating the ability of the probiotics to promote an increase in the levels of certain beneficial bacteria required for lowering bp.

therefore it is important that probiotics that trigger specific immune response involved in bp regulation be identified and devel- oped for managing hypertension.probiotics ras and hypertensionthe health benefits and clinical effects associated with probi- otic fermented foods have been known for ages.

most studies on the ability of probiotics to reducing bp have been elucidat- ed through fermentation of food products in order to releasebioactive peptides such as the ace inhibitory peptides that play a crucial role in inhibiting the ras table .

this is probably because some of the biopeptides released through fermentation are also active against high bp    and hence the combined effect is higher than that observed from probiotics alone.

however lab strains from dairy environments may have two pepx peptidase ho- mologues .although probiotics and their fermented foods reduce high bp in shrs results in human studies are controversial.

live recombi- nant probiotics have also been applied in bp lowering studies.

