1a a tricyclic antidepressant showed a potent inhibitory effects toward e. coli b-glucuronidase ic50  0.39 um but had no effect on the orthologous mammalian b-glucuronidase bos taurus in a cell-based assay.11 concomitant use of amoxapine significantly suppressed severe diarrhea-induced by cpt-11 on days 7 to 9 in mice but in a later stage of treatment 70 of the mice still progressed to severe diarrhea.6 the authors spec- ulated that the complicated manipulation of cpt-11 metabo- lism by hepatic carboxylesterases and ugts may cause biliary excretion of the toxic sn-38 into gut lumen which might account for the diarrhea in a later stage while further study istherefore in this study the effects of amoxapine on b-glucuronidase activity of pooled and individual human gut microbiota and human gut bacterial isolates were inves- tigated in vitro with intentions to 1 explore the factors causing unsatisfactory efficacy of amoxapine in alleviating cpt-11-induced toxicity in mice and 2 predict the out- comes of b-glucuronidase inhibition by amoxapine on the gastrointestinal toxicity of cpt-11 in humans.

4. these results indicated that b-glucuronidase activity and the inhibitory effect of amoxapine vary with gut bacterial isolates regard- less of their gus gene similarity or bacterial origin.in a recent study amoxapine showed a potent inhibition on e. coli b-glucuronidase ic50  0.39 um but an insig- nificant effect against mammalian b-glucuronidase bos taurus.11 in this study we confirmed the potent inhibition of amoxapine on e. coli b-glucuronidase ic50  0.34 um.

recently there has been increasing research interest in applying bacterial b-glucuronidase to enhance drug exposures3 and develop- ing bacterial b-glucuronidase inhibitors to relieve drug toxicity.4-7 for example intraduodenal administration of an anticancer compound jnj-10198409 together with escherichia coli e. coli b-glucuronidase to catheterized rats resulted in elevated systemic exposures of both the parent compound and its glucuronide.3 on the other hand inhibition of bacterial b-glucuronidases alleviated gastrointestinal tox- icity of irinotecan cpt-11 by inhibiting the release of the active metabolite sn-38 from the glucuronide sn-38g in gut lumen.41state key laboratory of quality research in chinese medicine institute of chinese medical sciences university of macau taipa macao china 2um zhuhai research institute zhuhai chinathese authors contributed equally to this work.received may 20 2017 and in revised form jul 16 2017. accepted forpublication jul 17 2017.supplementary material is available online with this article.corresponding authorru yan state key laboratory of quality research in chinese medicine institute of chinese medical sciences university of macau avenida da universidade taipa macao 999078 china.email yang et al.77figure 1. a chemical structure of amoxapine.

this finding offers another explanation for the unsatisfactory efficacy of amoxa- pine in alleviating cpt-11-induced toxicity amoxapine may selectively inhibit b-glucuronidases of some bacterial origins including e. coli b-glucuronidase tested in the study by wallace et al.12 while the alleviation of cpt-11 toxicity should rely on a potent inhibition of multiple bacterial b-glucuronidase activities instead of e. coli b-glucuronidase alone which was used for screening inhibitors.

3 amoxapine showed potent inhibition on e. coli b-glucuronidase with an ic50 of 0.34 um which was comparable to an ic50 of 0.39 um reported by ahmad et al.11 however amoxapine exhibited poor inhibition on b-glucuronidase activity in total bacterial proteins of both pooled ic50 337 - 26 um and individual samples ic50 no.

amoxapine 100 um exhibited poor and varied inhibition on b-glucuronidase activity in gut microbiota from 10 healthy individuals and their pool pool 11.9 individuals 3.6-54.4 with ic50 100 um and potent inhibition toward e. coli b-glucuronidase ic50  0.34 um.

taken together these findings partly explain the unsatisfactory efficacy of amoxapine in alleviating cpt-11-induced toxicity and predict a poor outcome of b-glucuronidase inhibition in humans highlighting the necessity of using a human gut microbiota community for drug screening.keywordsamoxapine b-glucuronidase inhibition human gut microbiota bacterial isolates cpt-11-induced toxicityintroductionb-glucuronidases ec 3.2.1.31 belong to glycoside hydro- lase family 2 and could hydrolyze b-linked glucuronides.1 bacterial b-glucuronidases in human gut play an essential role in cleaving glucuronide conjugates of dietary com- pounds endobiotics and xenobiotics2 which could result in enhanced systemic exposure of many compounds through facilitating enterohepatic recirculation to release more par- ent compound for absorption or cause toxicity due to pro-cpt-11 is one of the most commonly used anticancer agents for colon cancer therapy.8 cpt-11 is converted to sn-38 by carboxylesterases in liver.

cpt-11 metabolite sn38 in different individuals.ic50s of amoxapine on b-glucuronidase activity of human gut microbiota and e. colib-glucuronidasethe effects of inhibitor concentration on b-glucuronidase activity in crude enzymes of pooled and three individual nos.

the ic values um of amoxapineeffects of amoxapine on b-glucuronidase activity of gut bacterial isolatesamong 23 human gut bacterial isolates tested 13 showed detectable b-glucuronidase activity fig.

the poor inhibition on b-glucuronidase activities in human gut microbiota might explain the unsatisfactory efficacy of amoxapine in alleviating cpt-11-induced toxicity6 high- lighting the necessity of assessing the inhibitory effects on the b-glucuronidase activity of the gut microbiota commu- nity instead of single bacterial isolates.

thus it is necessary to assess the inhibitory effects of amoxa- pine on human gut bacterial b-glucuronidases which will pro- vide more reliable information to predict the potential of amoxapine on alleviating cpt-11-induced toxicity in humans.dmso bovine hemin vitamin k1 amoxapine p-nitrophe- nol pnp p-nitrophenyl-b-d-glucuronide pnpg and e. coli b-glucuronidase g8401 were supplied by sigma- aldrich st. louis mo.

further study with pure b-glucuronidase of each isolate is necessary to determine the inhibition propensity of amoxa- pine on b-glucuronidases of different bacterial origins.effects of amoxapine on the growth of human gut microbiotathe effects of amoxapine on the growth of pooled and three individual nos.

1 might be uncul- turable leading to its insensitivity to amoxapine inhibition.in conclusion the present study revealed poor and varied inhibitory effects of amoxapine on b-glucuronidase activi- ties of the human gut microbiota community and gut bacte- rial isolates and inhibition on the growth of human gut microbiota at high concentrations.

considering the poor inhibition of amoxapine on b-glucuronidases in pooled and individual gut microbiota samples we could not exclude that inhibition of amoxapine on the growth of gut microbi- ota could partially account for its efficacy in alleviating cpt-11-induced toxicity.figure 5. effects of amoxapine on the growth of pooled and three individual human gut microbiota after 12-h incubation.

for instances one inhibi- tor inhibitor 1 showed potent inhibition on e. coli b-glucuronidase ic50  0.16 um but no inhibition on bacteroides fragilis b-glucuronidase.

