2009 showed that initial community evenness is important for maintaining-- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- -- - - - --- -- --- -- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -- --- -this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.c 2017 the authors molecular ecology published by john wiley  sons ltd3424  molecular ecology.

2013 leff  fierer 2013 ottesen white skaltsas newell  walsh 2009. little is known about how organic farming affects the phyllo- sphere microbiota of wheat although wheat is grown on a larger proportion of land worldwide than any other crop food and agricul- ture organization of the united nations 2013. in addition in organic fruit production and viticulture alternatives to synthetic fungicides such as copper preparations are often used.

effect of cropping system and agricultural intensity on fungal communitieswe used species richness and pielou's evenness to evaluate the effect of cropping system on fungal diversity in the wheat phyllo- sphere as these measure two different dimensions of diversity magurran 2004 purvis  hector 2000. species richness esti- mated as the number of otus per 10 wheat leaves was higher on wheat leaves from organic production with a mean of 54 - 8.8 sdotus compared with 40 - 24.3 sd otus for conventional produc- tion table 3a figure 3a.

2014. these alternative substances are rarely used in organic cereal production european commission 2007. we therefore hypothesize that organic farming practices have different effects on the phyllosphere microbiome in cereal cultivation than in fruit production and viticulture.the differing cultivation practices used in organic and conven- tional cropping systems can be expected to influence phyllosphere fungi in several ways.

a more diverse crop rotation has been shown to reduce the severity of some fungal foliar diseases bailey gossen lafond watson  derksen 2001. finally the microclimate is likely to differ between organic and conventional fields due to a generally lower crop density and higher weed abundance in organic fields.

crop density is known to influence fungal disease development tompkins fowler  wright 1993.interestingly there are several reports of less fungal disease in organic production but the mechanisms behind this are poorly under- stood bernhoft clasen kristoffersen  torp 2010 gosme de ville- mandy bazot  jeuffroy 2012. in the case of fusarium head blightsome studies have shown that the amount of fusarium and myco- toxin contamination is lower or equal to in organic cereal production than in conventional production bernhoft et al.

a meta-analysis suggests that these two measures of diversity may be independent of each other crowder northfield gomulkiewicz  snyder 2012. higher pielou's evenness of fungal communities has previously been observed in the apple phyllosphere in organic production compared with conventional glenn bassett  dowd 2015. in soil fungal communities hartmann frey mayer meurader and widmer 2014 observed the same effect of organic farming as in our study with increased species richness and no effect on smith wilson evenness.

furthermore as organic production has to comply with certain regulations it can be expected that the cropping prac- tices varies less within the organic group than within the conven- tional group.

journal of plant pathology 95 7-24.schmid f. moser g. muller h.  berg g. 2011. functional and struc- tural microbial diversity in organic and conventional viticulture organic farming benefits natural biocontrol agents.

received 21 october 2015  revised 6 march 2017  accepted 21 march 2017 doi 10.1111mec.14132orig inal article organic farming increases richness of fungal taxa in the wheat phyllosphereida karlsson12 hanna friberg2  anna-karin kolseth1  christian steinberg3 paula persson11department of crop production ecology swedish university of agricultural sciences uppsala sweden2department of forest mycology and plant pathology swedish university of agricultural sciences uppsala sweden3agroecologie agrosup dijon cnrs inra universite bourgogne franche-comte dijon francecorrespondenceida karlsson department of forest mycology and plant pathology swedish university of agricultural sciences uppsala sweden.email funding informationsvenska forskningsroadet formas grant award number 2010-1945 the slu centre for biological control cbc.

fungicides may also have indirect effects on the fungal community by delaying senescence of the plant bertelsen de neergaard  smedegaard-petersen 2001. in a recent study we showed that fungicides affect fungal community composition in the wheat phyllo- sphere karlsson friberg steinberg  persson 2014. second organic and conventional systems also differ in the amount and qual- ity of fertilizer applied which influences the nutrient status of the plant.

2006 to get an objective measure of two of the main factors differing between organic and conventional production pesticide applications and the amount of nitrogen applied.in this study we used 11 paired organically and conventionally cultivated fields in sweden to characterize the fungal community on wheat leaves.

the aim of the study was to compare fungal richness even- ness and community composition in organic and conventional winter wheat production and to explore important environmental and agri- cultural factors including agricultural intensity for phyllosphere fungi.

results  sequence data qualitysequencing of its2 amplicons from 66 samples from a total of 220 wheat leaves from 11 pairs of fields in organic or conventional pro- duction yielded 150180 reads of which 75 passed scata quality filtering.

2014. our study of fungal communities in the wheat phyllosphere thus adds further knowledge on the effects of organic farming on biodiversity.some previous studies have reported higher numbers of fungal colony-forming units on organically produced fruit than on conven- tionally produced granado et al.

