the total bacterial load log10 of the number of 16s rrna gene copies was positively and linearly correlated with the relative abundances of acinetobacter and enterobacteriaceae aswell as with log10 spc figure 12a b and d. ad- ditionally a negative correlation was detected between the total bacterial load and the shannon diversity index figure 12c.discussionto our knowledge this is the first report to have described associations between the btm bacterial com-table 1. number of samples n mean sd and range of log10 spc and scc per dairy farm enrolled in this study2542rodrigues et al.figure 4. heat maps illustrating the mean relative abundance of the 12 most common bacterial taxa relative to log10 of the spc a and scc b quartiles for all milk samples evaluated in this study.

the most prevalent bacterial phyla were firmicutes fusobacteria bacte- roidetes proteobacteria spirochaetes and tenericutes the mean relative abundance of each phylum by farm is depicted in figure 1. the 30 most prevalent otu iden- tified in the btm samples from each farm are shown in figure 2. the core microbiome across the 19 farms studied is composed of ruminococcaceae acinetobacterclostridiales bacteroidales 5-7n15 pseudomonas staphylococcus lachnospiraceae corynebacterium planococcaceae bacillus and thermoanaerobacterium figure 3.milk quality parameters bacterial load by qpcr and bacterial taxa associationsthe mean standard deviation and range of scc and log10 spc are shown in table 1. associations between scc quartiles or log10 spc quartiles and mean relative abundance of the 12 most common otu identified in the btm samples were assessed figure 4. the rela- tive abundances of acinetobacter enterobacteriaceae and streptococcus were higher in the highest quartile of log10 spc in comparison to the lower log10 spc groups figure 4a.

bacterial diversity shan- non index was negatively correlated with bacterial load suggesting that the microbiomes of high-bacterial load btm samples are dominated by smaller groups of bacterial taxa.

the results for individual bacterial count were converted to colony-forming units by bactoscan fc software foss considering spc as reference method international dairy federation 1991 idf standard 100b 1991 the reference or anchor method applied in this technology spc was used to express the final results for total bacterial count.next-generation sequencing of the bacterial 16s rrna genethe dna was extracted from all samples using a powerfood microbial dna isolation kit mo bio laboratory inc. carlsbad ca following the manu- facturer's protocol.

simple linear regressions between log10 spc and shannon diversity index were assessed using jmp pro 11 software p-value 0.001. simple linear regressions were also fitted in jmp soft- ware to assess the association between the total bacte- rial load log10 copy numbers of the 16s rrna gene and 4 factors evaluated shannon index log10 spc relative abundance of enterobacteriaceae and relative abundance of acinetobacter an initial screening was performed and these 2 bacterial taxa presented the highest associations with total bacterial load.resultssequencing results prevalence of bacterial taxa and core microbiomequality filtered reads for the 16s rrna sequences were de-multiplexed yielding 24509428 raw sequences in total median  45821 range  6977-158311 with a median length of 301 bases per read and an aver- age of 51965 sequences per sample.

a negative correlation between the shannon diversity index and total bacterial load log10 of the copy number of the 16srrna gene was observed suggesting that a btm environment with high bacterial count may be dominated by a smaller group of bacterial taxa.the phylum-level structure of the btm microbiome detected in the present study is similar to those of pre- vious studies that described the microbial communities of raw milk quigley et al.

the letters in front of the bacterial names identify the lowest level of classification k kingdom p  phylum c  class o  order f  family and g  genus.2548rodrigues et al.in samples classified as hspc our microbiome analysis showed hspc to be associated with a small group of bacterial taxa.

operational taxonomic units statistically significant on the response screening analysis log10 of the fdr1.3 are presented bacterial taxa with higher relativeabundance in hscc compared with lscc samples andmicrobiome associated with quality parameters2539bacterial taxa with higher relative abundance in lscc compared with hscc samples were shown in graphics mean relative abundance - sem the same procedure was also applied to log10 spc.

color version available online.were performed using otu classified as statistically significant log10 of the fdr 1.3 in the response screening analysis for the hscc figure 6 and lscc categories figure 7. the effect of milk microbiome on log10 spc was also evaluated using response screening analysis figure 8. in hspc the streptococcus genushad the highest effect size whereas the most abundant bacterial taxa were acinetobacter and enterobacteria- ceae figure 8. in lspc thermoanaerobacterium and bacillus had the highest effect sizes whereas rumino- coccaceae clostridiales bacteroidales and staphylococ- cus were the most abundant bacterial taxa.

color version available online.analysis was performed using bacterial taxa statisti- cally significant in the response screening in the hspc figure 9 and lspc categories figure 10.log10 spc and shannon index were linearly corre- lated figure 11 bacterial taxa diversity decreased with higher values of log10 spc.

we also found that the btm environment is dominated by a smaller group of bacterial taxa in cases with higher bacterial load.

four hundred seventy-two btm samples from 19 different dairy farms located in new york state were analyzed by next- generation sequencing and quantitative pcr of the 16s rrna gene to assess the milk microbiome and measure total bacterial load respectively.

in addition streptococcus was highly correlated with hspc and this genus was the second most abundant bacterial taxon detected in samples classified as hscc.

samples were stored at -20degc for downstream molecular analysis.scc and total bacteria countthe scc and total bacterial count measurements were carried out at dairy one milk laboratory.

final equimolar libraries were prepared and sequenced using the miseq reagent kit v2-300 cycles illumina inc..quantitative pcrfor assessment of the total bacterial load by quantita- tive q pcr a subsample of 120 samples was randomly selected.

