Liver cells respond to these compounds via different nuclear receptors xenosensors that have been demon- strated in animal studies be susceptible of regulation by the microbiota.These comprehensive analyses revealed transcrip- tional and protein changes in a network connected with the hepatic metabolism of xenobiotics affecting the activity of cytochrome P450 fatty acids and lipid metabolism amino acid metabolism and bile acid synthesis.

responsible for its metabolism.These products have been identified as probably responsible for the bioactivity of ginseno- sides in humans.Similarly bacterial-mediated metabolism also occurs on pharmacologically active natural glucuronides such as baicalin from Scutellariae radixand glucosinolates like glucor- apharin found in Cruciferous vegetables with anticarcinogenic properties.The bacterial-mediated metabolism favors their rapid appearance in the systemic circulation as demonstrated in con- ventional rats in comparison to germ-free animals.

For example gut microbiota has been identified as responsible of a less efficient metabolism of pentobarbital.The impaired metabolism is reflected in a longer time of anesthesia in conventionally raised animals compared to germ-free animals.

Drugs metabolism occurs associated to the energetic cell metabolism and the endocannabinoid system eCB participates in the regulation of energy homeostasis and gut permeability increasing the possibility to appear as a metabolic endotoxemia.

Notwithstanding xenobiotics and thera- peutic drugs affecting the microbiome's activity also significantly impact metabolism affecting different organs and tissues and thereby drugs' toxicityefficacy effects.

However the study of population-based differences in intestinal microbial- related drug metabolism has been largely inferential.

The evidence that 'environmental' factors greatly impact to a different extent drug metabolism and physiological behavior from one individual to another highlight the need of changing the way the efficacytoxicity of several drugs is being approached.Increasing evidence demonstrates that microbiome is a critical determinant in human health.

In fact experimental studies have evidenced differences in the effi- cacy or toxicity of therapeutic drugs because of differences in microbial-mediated drug metabolism.

There have been revealed significant differences in the metabolic activation or inactivation of drugs causing important variations of efficacy.However there is scarce evidence that does demonstrate the population-based differences in microbial- related drug metabolism.

Examples of the distinct reactions that have been described  affecting several drugs  are briefly detailed below.Reductive MetabolismA well-known example of reductive metabolism is the marked decrease in the efficacy of cardiac glycoside drugs such as digoxinwhich is particularly important because of its narrowFigure 1.

