on quantifying the prematurely activated neurons at t  0.1 s grey we found that 50 of all dhea-responsive neurons were prematurely acti- vated by dpd10.in the case of 2 mm idpd10 added to neurons see supplementary information for experimental details we could clearly observe a complete trajectory of ca2 elevation in all responsive neurons white arrowheads and supplementary movie 5. the kinetics of intracellular ca2 influx for n  10 neurons due to photo-uncaging dhea from idpd10 is shown in it revealed that dhea-induced neuronal activation shows a t12 half time required for the receptor activation of 10 s. importantly the basal level of activation prior to photoirradiation was comparable to neurons without dhea 4a indicating negligible premature neuronal activation.

c confocal images of neurons showing the colocalization of vf2.1cl l  520 nm with ia647 .dpd10exdpd10d representative kinetic trace of intracellular calcium 340380 observed when ia647 -loaded neurons were irradiated at 380 nm n  10 neurons.e percentage of activated neurons on treatment with dhea dpd10 or ia647 as compared with untreated neurons.

accordingly time-lapse calcium imaging of neurons containing 10 nm of dpd10 in the medium was performed and supplementary movie 4. although several neurons showed activation after release of dhea from dpd10 white arrowheads note that prior to photo-uncaging many neurons were already activated red arrowheads by dpd10.

addition of dhea 10 nm immediately raised intracellular ca2 in all responsive neurons red arrowheads and supplementary movie 3 compared with neurons not exposed to dhea and supplementary movie 2. note that the manual addition of dhea does not allow the kinetics of neuronal activation to be monitored due to the rapidity of activation.

we apply this technology to release dehydroepiandrosterone dhea a neurosteroid that promotes neurogenesis and neuron survival and determined the timescale of neuronal activation by dhea using light-induced release of dhea from targeted dna nanocapsules.

we reasoned that the encapsulation of photocaged dhea within an icosahedral dna shell would prevent such background activation while permitting photo-uncaged dhea molecules to diffuse out of the capsule and activate those neurons on which the nanocapsules are localized.dna icosahedra containing dpd10 idpd10 were first localized on the plasma membrane of cultured neurons.

a molecule like dpd10 could potentially circumventnature nanotechnology  advance online publication  5this problem where photoirradiation would trigger dhea release from dpd10 that would in turn activate neurons.

light- mediated release of dhea then activated neurons and revealed the kinetics of this neuronal activation a process that has so far proved elusive to measure due to its speed.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in nature nanotechnology  august 2017doi 10.1038nnano.2017.159citations7reads1326 authors including 13 publications 86 citations 2 publications 7 citations 17 publications 230 citationssome of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsinvestigating spatiotemporal signalling of neural systems using cell-targetable nanotechnology investigating the role of microbial immune responses in alzheimer's disease pathogenesis all content following this page was uploaded by on 18 november 2017.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.cell-targetable dna nanocapsules for spatiotemporal release of caged bioactive small moleculesaneesh t. veetil12 kasturi chakraborty12 kangni xiao12 myles r. minter234 sangram s. sisodia234 and yamuna krishnan12achieving triggered release of small molecules with spatial and temporal precision at designated cells within an organism remains a challenge.

however the kinetics of thiol-induced release is too slow to study receptor activation in neurons.

given its high in vivo stability we sought to exploit its high encapsulation volume to achieve triggered release of small molecules in vivo with spatial and temporal control.here we describe a molecular technology that uses dna icosahe- dra to release small molecules in vivo and in primary neuronal cultures with spatial and temporal control.

a chemically modified dextrans entrapped in dna nanocapsules are photoirradiated to either release fluorophores that diffuse out of the nanocapsule or release a non-fluorescent protecting group leaving behind a fluorescent cargo within the nanocapsule.

this additional anisotropy increase is a characteristic signature of fluorescent dextrans entrapped in the dna icosahedron and is due to the slightly restricted rotation experienced by rpd10 within the nanocapsule as seen in previous studies.light-triggered cytosolic release of small molecules in vivo we then investigated whether cargo-loaded dna nanocapsules could release their payload in living systems on application of a light stimulus.

the percentage of activated neurons at 100 ms after irradiation grey and at t  20 s red are shown n  20 neurons.

importantly sequestration inside the dna capsule prevents photocaged dhea from activating neurons prematurely.

