however there is no standardization regarding which of these outcomes should be used in microbiome research and yield the most relevant informationcomplex methods that use machine learning computational biology and bioinformatics are required to handle and analyze large microbiome datalarge longitudinal prospective cohort studies that are cumbersome time-consuming and expensive are necessary to provide de- tailed information about the role of the microbiome in health and diseasethe complex multidirectional relationships that exist between the host microbiome and environment make it difficult to control for confounders in human subjects research which poses a challenge to establishing causal links between the microbiome health and diseasethere are few studies comparing the luminal and mucosal microbiomethe role of the virome and fungome in brain-gut communication is unexploredprobiotics are not subject to the same regulatory processes as traditional drugs which raises concern regarding the viability content and purity of probiotic products and hinders research in the fieldnoninvasive techniques to study brain-gut communication in humans are mainly limited to functional mrithere are difficulties translating mechanistic findings from animal models to humans partly related to different readouts in research as well as physiologic differencessuch as irritable bowel syndrome ibs and although a specific microbial signature in ibs remains elusive this disorder has been associated with disturbances of the intestinal microbiota this as- sociation is intriguing and may provide additional evidence for a link between gut microbes and brain function however further studies are needed to determine whether a causal link exists.a complex multidirectional networkthe microbiota the host and the environment there is strong evidence to suggest that environmental factors such as diet 16-18 exercise 19 and antibiotic 20 use can alter the intestinal microbiome and that changes in the intestinal microbiome can lead to alterations in the metabolism of food substrates 2021. three predominant microbial community clusters have been identi- fied in humans which are dominated by bacteroides prevotella and ruminococcus 22. specific microbial community clusters are strongly associated with long-term diets individuals consuming a diet rich in protein and animal fat predominantly belong to the bacteroides enterotype versus individuals who ingest a carbohy- drate-rich diet which belong to the prevotella enterotype 18. al- though microbiome composition has been altered in studies that control dietary fat and fiber enterotype identity seems to remainstable over the short term 18. the effect of diet and life-style on the gut microbiota was further elucidated in a study that com- pared the gut microbiota and metabolome of children in west africa and europe 23. west african children exhibited a domi- nance of prevotella and increased short-chain fatty acids as com- pared with european children who displayed predominantly bacteroides 23. the authors hypothesized that the gut microbi- ota co-evolved with the polysaccharide-rich diet of west african individuals to maximize energy intake from fibers and protect against inflammation and colonic disease 23. alterations in gut microbiota composition have also been correlated with age frailty and community dwelling 24. the gut microbiota of residents in long-term care facilities has been shown to be significantly less di- verse than that of community dwellers a characteristic which has been associated with increased frailty 24. collectively these data support a complex relationship between diet microbiota and host.bidirectional associations between the gut microbiota and the brainalthough the brain and intestinal microbiome are separated by physical space these two systems also communicate in a bidirec- tional way 125 integration of complex neural hormonal andimmunological signaling enables bidirectional communication be- tween the gut and the brain 26 and provides a potential route by which the intestinal microbiota and its metabolites can access the brain and result in pathophysiologic consequences 125. this bi- directional communication allows the brain to influence gi func- tions such as motility secretion and mucin production 26. disturbances in brain-gut communication are associated with in- testinal inflammation and chronic abdominal pain syndromes 26. although alterations in brain-gut interactions have also been implicated in human brain disorders including autism food addic- tion anxiety depression multiple sclerosis alzheimer disease and parkinson disease strong evidence for a causal relationship is lacking 25-29. alterations in brain-gut communication in re- sponse to stress and depression can influence the natural history of chronic gi illnesses such as inflammatory bowel disease 3031 and ibs 32-37 which have both been associated with dysbiosis.

nat rev microbiol 201210735-42. brain-gut interactions qin j li r raes j arumugam m burgdorf ks manichanh c nielsen t pons n levenez f yamada t mende dr li j xu j li s li d cao j wang b liang h zheng h xie y tap j lepage p bertalan m batto jm hansen t le paslier d linneberg a nielsen hb pelletier e renault p sicheritz-ponten t turner k zhu h yu c li s jian m zhou y li y zhang x li s qin n yang h wang j brunak s dore j guarner f kristiansen k pedersen o parkhill j weissenbach j consortium metahit bork p ehrlich sd wang j. a human gut microbial gene catalogue established by metagenomic sequencing.

nat med 201521 1497-501.arumugam m raes j pelletier e le paslier d yamada t mende dr fernandes gr tap j bruls t batto jm bertalan m borruel n casellas f fernandez l gautier l hansen t hattori m hayashi t kleerebezem m kurokawa k leclerc m levenez f manichanh c nielsen hb nielsen t pons n poulain j qin j sicheritz-ponten t tims s torrents d ugarte e zoetendal eg wang j guarner f pedersen o de vos wm brunak s dore j consortium metahit antolin m artiguenave f blottiere hm almeida m brechot c cara c chervaux c cultrone a delorme c denariaz g dervyn r foerstner ku friss c van de guchte m guedon e haimet f huber w van hylckama- vlieg j jamet a juste c kaci g knol j lakhdari o layec s le roux k maguin e merieux a melo minardi r m'rini c muller j oozeer r parkhill j renault p rescigno m sanchez n sunagawa s torrejon a turner k vandemeulebrouck g varela e winogradsky y zeller g weissenbach jehrlich sd bork p. enterotypes of the human gut microbiome.

stress has been shown to influence the integrity of the gut epithe- lium and to alter gut motility secretions and mucin production 38. these alterations change the intestinal microenvironment promoting changes in microbial composition or activity 38. moreover stressinduced release of catecholamines into the gut might influence the microbial community changing communica- tion and signaling between bacteria and altering the expression of bacterial virulence genes 3940. therefore the relationship be- tween the host microbiome and environment can be considered a complex multidirectional network 4142.the bidirectional relationship between the brain and intestinal microbiome has been elegantly elucidated in proof-of-concept studies in rodents which demonstrate that psychological stress results in altered composition of the intestinal microbiome hallmarked by a reduction in lactobacillus 43. this reduction in lactobacillus leads to dysregulation of epithelial cell cytokines and chemokines resulting in colonic inflammation and pathology 43. administration of lactobacillus species to these rodents leads to restoration of epithelial cell regulation and resolution of colonic pathology 43. human studies have also shown that theintestinal microbiome can change as a result of psychological stress 44. different physiologic pathways are activated by stress including the hypothalamic-pituitary axis and the autonomic ner- vous system and activation of these systems results in stimulation of the enteric nervous system leading to a change in motility and altered acid bile and mucus secretion 4546. relative perme- ability of the blood-brain barrier and the intestinal epithelium is thought to be necessary although not sufficient for brain-gut communication to occur 2847. it is believed that dynamic endo- crine neurologic and inflammatory systems mediate commu- nication between the brain and intestinal microbiota through a complex systemic and multidirectional network and that their ability to modulate one another is facilitated by permeability of the blood-brain barrier and intestinal barrier2847 although the precise mechanisms whereby these interactions occur have not yet been elucidated.effect of early-life events on the intestinal microbiota early-life events are known to lead to long-term changes in health and are presumed to exert their affect by inducing low-grade in- flammation evoking changes to the immune system or resulting in dysbiosis 48. there is evidence to suggest that physiologic and metabolic perturbations during the prenatal or early postnatal period can influence microbial colonization and that this disruption in intestinal microbial homeostasis is responsible for long-term changes in health 48-51. a previous study demonstrated that there was a directly proportional relationship between lactobacil- lus levels and degree of stress exhibited by infant monkeys after separation from their mothers 52. infant mode of delivery has also been shown to be an important factor in determining micro- bial composition in the postnatal period 5354. metagenomic studies in humans demonstrate that postnatal microbial composi- tion in the infant is markedly different in infants delivered by vag- inal compared with cesarean section 5556. in fact cesarean section is a risk factor for the development of allergies and asthma later in life which may be due to lack of exposure to maternal brain-gut interactions vaginal tract bacteria during birth 54. in addition administration of low-dose penicillin in the early postnatal period has resulted in a disturbed microbiome and subsequent development of obesity and metabolic disorders in mice moreover transfer of microbiota from these obese mice into germ-free mice resulted in transfer of the obese phenotype 57. microbial homeostasis has also been impli- cated in aging 24. both animal and human studies have indicated that aging is associated with changes in the composition of the in- testinal microbiota 58-60 however the direction of the effects in human studies is not consistent.

presenters and leaders in the field were invited to attend a half-day session on the second day of the symposium to summarize the previous days' presentations evaluate our cur- rent scientific knowledge explore opportunities and challenges for conducting research in the field and determine potential ave- nues for future research.the following aims of the symposium were toimprove understanding of the methods used to determine the composition and function of the gut microenvironmentgain understanding of the relationship between the gut microen- vironment and the host with specific focus on interaction be- tween the gut microbiota and the immune system enteric nervous system external stressors and the brainbegin to understand the mechanisms by which the gut microbi- ota may play an important role in the pathogenesis of medical and neuropsychiatric diseasesexplore the role of diet prebiotics probiotics antibiotics and fecal microbiota transplantation fmt in manipulating the gut microenvironment to treat diseaseimprove the quality and generate new avenues of international research in brain-gut communicationmore than 100 participants from around the world including gastroenterologists psychiatrists basic scientists and other health care providers participated in the meeting.

three central areas require basic and clinical research 1 how the intestinal microenvironment interacts with the host immune system central nervous system and enteric nervous system 2 the role of the intestinal microenvironment in the pathogenesis of medical and neuropsychiatric disease and 3 the effects of diet prebiotics probiotics and fecal microbiota transplan- tation on the intestinal microenvironment and the treatment of disease.methods this review article is based on a symposium convened by the american gastroenterology association and the american psychosomatic society to foster interest in the role of the intestinal microenvironment in brain-gut communication and pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric and biopsychosocial disorders.

the pro- gram included sessions on 1 basic aspects of the intestinal microbiome 2 the intestinal microbiome and neural systems with a focus on physiology and pathophysiology 3 the role of the intestinal microbiome in medical and neuropsychiatric dis- eases and 4 manipulation of the intestinal microbiome as afrom the department of internal medicine division of gastroenterology aroniadis montefiore medical center-albert einstein college of medicine bronx new york center for functional gastrointestinal and motility disorders drossman simren university of north carolina at chapel hill north carolina drossman gastroenterology drossman simren chapel hill north carolina and department of internal medicine and clinical nutrition simren institute of medicine sahlgrenska academy university of gothenburg sweden.address correspondence and reprint requests to olga c. aroniadis md msc montefiore medical center division of gastroenterology 3303 rocham- beau avenue bronx ny 10467. e-mail received for publication april 1 2016 revision received october 10 2016. doi 10.1097psy.0000000000000431copyright c 2017 by the american psychosomatic societytreatment strategy.

the speakers were chosen because they had extended expertise in characterizing the following 1 the gut microbiomecomplex relationships between the gut microbiota and the hostthe role of intestinal microbiota in health and disease or 4 the therapeutic role of the gut microbiota.the following summarizes the information presented at the symposium.

perhaps the most con- vincing evidence that the intestinal microbiota can affect brain function is based on the observation that orally administered anti- biotics are used to successfully treat hepatic encephalopathy in pa- tients with decompensated liver disease 9. another convincing study exhibited that consumption of a fermented milk product with probiotic modulated brain activity on functional magnetic resonance imaging fmri 10. in addition studies have reported alterations in brain-microbiota interaction in neuropsychiatric disease 1. for instance germ-free mice without living microor- ganisms on or in them have been shown to exhibit increased risk- taking and exploratory behaviors compared with pathogen-free mice without specific pathogens inhabiting their bodies 1112. in comparison with healthy controls the fecal microbiome of pa- tients with late-onset autism is characterized by a marked reduc- tion in bacteroidetes and an increase in the genus sutterella 13. moreover intestinal biopsies in patients with late-onset autism exhibit reductions in bifidobacterium species and akkermansia mucinophilia compared with healthy controls 14. furthermore commensal microbiota cooperates with the myelin autoantigen to trigger autoimmunemediated demyelination in mice a process that is characteristic of multiple sclerosis in humans 15. lastly psychiatric disorders often coexist with common gi disorders brain-gut interactions box 2. opportunities and challenges of research in brain-gut communicationwhat are the opportunities to conduct future research aimed to improve our understanding of brain-gut communicationas a complement to analysis of microbial composition characterization of microbial function is now possible using metagenomics metatranscriptomics metaproteomics and metabolomicsprobiotics are generally considered safe which provides an opportunity to bypass requisite preclinical research and conduct clinical trials to determine their role for example in modulating moodsubgroups of patients with irritable bowel syndrome exhibit alterations in intestinal permeability and mucosal immune dysfunction and often have psychiatric comorbidities probiotic studies in this group could provide investigators with the opportunity to assess change in psychological function as well as change in gi symptomscharacterization of the oral and not only the gut microbiome in patients with anxiety and depression could provide high-yield informationcollaboration with food and nutrition companies might provide necessary research support to advance our understanding of the role of diet and prebiotics on the brain-gut axiswhat are the challenges and barriers to advancing our scientific knowledge of brain-gut communicationlack of standardized protocols for conducting microbiome researcha microbial community can be characterized by its composition function and genetic profile.

the role of the intestinal microbiome in medical and neu- ropsychiatric diseases is reviewed as well as the treatment effects of manipulation of the intestinal microbiome.conclusions based on this review opportunities and challenges for conducting research in the field are described leading to potential avenues for future research.key words brain-gut communication metabolomics metaproteomics metatranscriptomics microbiota probiotics.introductionn recent years the role of the gut microbiota has been an area of active investigation and emerging data suggest that it may havea significant role in brain-gut interactions.

at the time of discussion and augmented at a later date after review of a recording of the entire half-day session and notes from faculty leaders.the intestinal microbiome and its role in the pathogenesis of medical and neuropsychiatric diseasethe gut microbiotathe intestinal microbial ecosystem resides in the lower gi tract and is predominantly composed of bacteria 1. the lower gi tract contains approximately 100 trillion microorganisms and more than 1000 bacterial species 2 and 7000 bacterial strains 3 which have been identified using molecular-based approaches.

more thanmillion nonredundant genes are encoded by the microbiota which exceeds the number of genes encoded by the human hostgenome by 150-fold 2. moreover many microbial gene products have important effects on metabolism and the health of the host 1. we now view the relationship between microbes and the host as mutualistic with both parties experiencing fitness as a result of their interactions 4. in addition we recognize that the gut micro- biota plays a crucial role in the development of innate and adaptive immunity 56 and in regulation of gut motility intestinal barrier homeostasis nutrient absorption and fat distribution 78. re- cently studies have suggested that the microbiota can also play a role in brain development and function.

pharmacotherapy 2010305 pt 216s-21s.tillisch k labus j kilpatrick l jiang z stains j ebrat b guyonnet d legrain- raspaud s trotin b naliboff b mayer ea.

proc natl acad sci u s a 200810516731-6.jalanka-tuovinen j salojarvi j salonen a immonen o garsed k kelly fm zaitoun a palva a spiller rc de vos wm.

am j gastroenterol 2005100 373-82.matto j maunuksela l kajander k palva a korpela r kassinen a saarela m. composition and temporal stability of gastrointestinal microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome--a longitudinal study in ibs and control subjects.

