Another interesting question should be further addressed is that how Akkermansia muciniphila a major symbiotic species having power to antagonize metabolic disorders in the gut is substantially recovered in the gut by cationic resin treatment.Conclusion We found that oral administration of cationic resin such as cholestyramine can thoroughly reduce plasma endotoxin promotes the gut eubiosis resolves inflammation restores insulin responsiveness and antagonizes hepatic steatosis and fibrosis.

The inflammation-exerted intestinal lesion was also demonstrated by the increased gut permeability supplemental Fig.

D The relative abundance of bacteria at phylum levels in the ileal lumen.

C The ratio of plasma HDL-c vs. LDL-c. D Liver steatosis and inflammation scores NAS.

The gut microbiota at the end of FBT as described the experiment described in Figure 4 were examined.

These results indicate that the negatively charged components produced by dysbiosis are critical for biogenesis of metabolic disorders and also show a potential application of cationic polystyrene to treat metabolic disorders through promoting gut eubiosis.Key words Metabolic syndrome nonalcoholic steatohepatitis NASH fatty liver cationic polystyrene endotoxemia gut microbiota endotoxin.IntroductionMetabolic syndrome MetS in association with obesity fatty liver diseases and type-2 diabetes T2D has imposed great health challenges and an enormous economic burden on societies worldwide 1 2.

Recently we showed that vitamin D signaling through induction of Paneth cell specific alpha-defensins maintains gut eubiosis to antagonize MetS 15.

Given the nature of positive charges by the secretory-form of alpha-defensins we reasoned that applying positively charged resins might have similar impacts.RESEARCH DESIGNAnimal treatment and measurementC57BL6J mice male 4-6 weeks old were fed either control chow AIN93 containing 10-12 calories from fat and 1000 Ukg vitamin D3 HFK Bioscience or vitamin D deficient high fat diet HD 60 calories from fat and without vitamin D supplement.

3B-C closely similar gut microbiota appeared grouping together in two states gut microbiota from the mice by cholestyramine treatment was closely related to that in the control feeding while the microbiota from the mice treated by polystyrene treated mice were closely related to the ones from the HD feeding.

Moreover fecal bacterial transplantation demonstrated that the rebalanced gut microbes from the cholestyramine-treated animal were sufficient to reverses the metabolic disorders again showing critical roles of gut microbes in maintaining health.

