the variation of beta diversity significantly decreased in those subjects withfrequent exacerbations.55conclusionsmicrobial dysbiosis is a feature of some exacerbations and its presence especially in concertwith eosinophilic inflammation is associated with more severe exacerbations indicated by agreater fall in lung function.60key messageswhat is the key questionhow does the lung microbial community vary over time within copd subjects and how ismicrobial dysbiosis in exacerbations implicated in disease characteristics65what is the bottom linedysbiosis of the sputum microbiome in copd exacerbations particularly in concert witheosinophilic inflammation is associated with a greater decline in lung capacity during theexacerbation event.70why read onthe presented study entails the largest copd sputum microbiome cohort to date with multiplestudy centers aiming at in-depth examination of microbial temporal variability dysbiosis anddisease phenotypes.introductionchronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd is characterized by persistent symptoms andimpaired lung function as a consequence of small airway obliteration and alveolar destructionand is associated with chronic lung inflammation 1-3. acute exacerbations of copd are a suddenonset of sustained worsening of these symptoms.

in light of theheterogeneous nature of copd exacerbations the lung microbiome has potential as a biomarkerto assist in the precision medicine treatments for specific copd patient subpopulations.97although insightful results from these previous studies have limitations in terms ofunderstanding microbial dysbiosis during exacerbations as most of these studies comparing themicrobiome at stable and exacerbations involved only one single sampling point of each state.the lung microbiome is temporally dynamic and can vary even in stable state 10.thus themicrobial changes during exacerbations are a mixture of both the disease associated disruption ofmicrobial community or dysbiosis and the regular temporal perturbations of the lung microbialcomposition.

however characterizing temporal variability of the microbiome fromlarge longitudinal copd cohorts is needed to better understand this phenomenon.37methodswe performed a 16s ribosomal rna survey of microbiome on 716 sputum samples collectedlongitudinally at baseline and exacerbations from 281 copd subjects at three uk clinicalcenters as part of the copdmap consortium.42resultsthe microbiome composition was similar among centers and between stable and exacerbationsexcept for a small significant decrease of veillonella at exacerbations.

disorder of the temporal balance of microbial ecosystem inthe respiratory tract could trigger a dysregulated host immune response that results in negativeeffects on host biology 10. linking microbial temporal variation to disease characteristics andhost inflammatory profiles could potentially lead to monitoring and manipulating the stability ofairway microbial composition as a therapeutic strategy for copd.a finer-grained longitudinal sampling of microbiome at multiple stable and exacerbation visits isnecessary to quantitatively measure temporal variability of the microbiome and assess thesignificance of microbial dysbiosis during exacerbations.

doing so revealed four subgroups of exacerbations wheredysbiosis andor high blood eosinophil level 3 x108 cellsl are the predominant feature.exacerbations with both dysbiosis and high eosinophil level had the greatest changes of fev1statistically significant anova p0.02 fvc and cat score whereas exacerbations withneither dysbiosis nor high eosinophils level were associated with the least of such changes fig.2612b.262exacerbation frequency associated with temporal variability of the sputum microbiomewe next sought to quantify temporal variability of the sputum microbiome within subjects usingthe metrics described by flores et al.

our study underscores the importance of considering temporal variability of themicrobiome in understanding the significance of microbial dysbiosis in copd exacerbations.from assessing temporal variation of the sputum microbiome we identified a subset ofexacerbation events in which significant dysbiosis is a feature.

this entails one of thelargest copd sputum microbiome cohorts to date aiming at in-depth examination of temporalvariability of the microbiome.

crp was also significantly associated with alpha and beta diversity of the predictedfunctional profiles of the sputum microbiome using the software picrust 28 table s5.increased disease severity in exacerbations with dysbiosislongitudinal sampling of a large cohort over a two year period enables temporal variability anddysbiosis of the sputum microbiome to be quantitatively measured.

our studyreveals a diverse sputum microbiome among the copdmap subjects and further validates theassociation of microbiome with specific exacerbation phenotypes.

our findings underscore theimportance of considering temporal variability of the sputum microbiome in copdheterogeneity and its potential as a biomarker toward more precise treatment of copd.figure legendsfigure 1. baseline and exacerbation microbiome profiles across centers.

sputum microbiome temporal variability and dysbiosis in chronic obstructive pulmonarydisease exacerbations an analysis of the copdmap study3zhang wang1 richa singh4 bruce e. miller2 ruth tal-singer2 stephanie van horn3 lynntomsho3 alexander mackay4 james p. allinson4 adam j. webb5 anthony j. brookes5 leenam.

george6 bethan barker6 umme kolsum7 louise e donnelly4 kylie belchamber4 peter j.barnes4 dave singh7 christopher e. brightling6 gavin c. donaldson4 jadwiga a. wedzicha4james r. brown1 on behalf of copdmap91 computational biology target sciences research and development rd glaxosmithklinegsk collegeville pa 19426 usa2 respiratory therapy area unit rd gsk king of prussia pa 19406 usa3 target and pathway validation target sciences rd gsk collegeville pa 19426 usa4 national heart and lung institute imperial college london london sw3 6np uk5 department of genetics university of leicester leicester le1 7rh uk6 institute for lung health university of leicester leicester le3 9qp uk7 university of manchester and university hospital of south manchester manchester m23 9qzuk1920 these authors contributed equally to the manuscript.21 correspondence tojames r. brown 1250 s. collegeville road collegeville pennsylvania 19426-0989 united states25mobile 1610247858026tel 1610917637427word count abstract 240word count text body 350030abstractbackgroundrecent studies suggest that lung microbiome dysbiosis the disease associated disruption of thelung microbial community might play a key role in chronic obstructive pulmonary diseasecopd exacerbations.

therefore examining the baseline variation of the lung microbiome is an importantfirst step to more precisely assess the extent of microbial dysbiosis during exacerbations.

partial least squares discriminant analysis pls-da was performed on exacerbationphenotypes and microbiome andor clinical data using simca-p umetrics stockholmsweden 19. dysbiosis at exacerbations was measured as the deviation z-score of the firstprincipal coordinate pc1 of the weighted unifrac distance for exacerbation samples relative toall baseline pc1s from the same subject.

as expected both variations of alpha and betadiversity were significantly higher in subjects with dysbiosis exacerbations than those without273t-test p0.01.274we constructed a generalized linear model glm to look for clinical characteristics associatedwith temporal variability of the sputum microbiome.

