downsi larvae per endemic finch nest has increased by 46 in nests and direct mortality over this period is documented at 55 of nestlings due to larval parasitism reviewed in kleindorfer  duda- niec 2016.the impact on host populations has been devastating with sev- ere declines in avian hosts with many p. downsi larvae per nest dvo- rak fessl nemeth kleindorfer  tebbich 2012 o'connor sulloway robertson  kleindorfer 2010 peters  kleindorfer 2017. two darwin's finch species are critically endangered island endemics i the medium tree finch camarhynchus pauper has the highest p. downsi intensity of any finch species on floreana island and declined 52 between 2004 and 2013 kleindorfer peters cus- tance dudaniec  o'connor 2014 kleindorfer o'connor et al.

journal of chemical ecology 42 1101-1111. chaves j. a. cooper e. a. hendry a. p. podos j. de leon l. f. raey- maekers j. a. m. ... uy j. a. c. 2016. genomic variation at the tips of the adaptive radiation of darwin's finches.

compar- isons revealed that larval microbiome composition remained consis- tent within the host regardless of the island on which larvae were sampled mrpp tests a  -0.02 p  .70.grouping data according to host diet revealed a significant effect on larval microbiome composition.

douglas 2015 engel  moran 2013. however the link between the microbiomes of parasitic organisms with their own host's ecology and evolution adds additional complexity particularly in the case of parasitic organisms that affect multiple host species newton fitt atkins walters  daniell 2010.a diverse and varying composition of bacteria within parasitic organisms can lead to differential host pathogenicity and host-para- site co-evolutionary interactions sandionigi et al.

although adults may inoculate eggs or oviposition sites with bacteria our results support the notion that the larval microbiome is not vertically transmitted en masse by adultflies to offspring which if occurred would be predicted to result in detection of specific bacteria common to all adults and larvae and a greater similarity in larval microbiomes irrespective of host species.

bacteria present in host diet may thus be transferred onto first-instar larvae and consequently perpetuate as stable gut residents throughout the remaining larval period.despite the exact mechanism of the relationship being open to further research our results are consistent with a scenario involving host dietary effects as we found that the gut microbiota of larvae infesting nests of the insectivorous warbler finch was strikingly dif- ferent from the microbiota of the larvae infesting nests of ground and tree finch species who have varied diets with many common components figure 2b.

larval samples are named according to the host parasitized sgf small ground finch stf small tree finch mtf medium tree finch wf warbler finch and collection site sc santa cruz fl floreana.

global ecology and conservation 7 122-131.knutie s. a. mcnew s. m. bartlow a. w. vargas d. a.  clayton d.h. 2014. darwin's finches combat introduced nest parasites with fumigated cotton.

conclusion our study finds variation in the microbiome of the avian parasitic fly p. downsi according to life stage adult fly vs. parasitic larvae and larval stage with significant differences in larval microbiome between ecologically divergent host species that differ in foraging niche and diet.

methods  species and samplingphilornis downsi larvae n  20 were collected from nests of four finch species inhabiting the islands of santa cruz and floreana of the galapagos archipelago table 1. three host species inhabit arbo- real habitats and are either strictly insectivorous green warbler- finch wf certhidea olivacea or feed on both insects and vegetativeresources small and medium tree finches stf and mtf camar- hynchus parvulus camarhynchus pauper respectively peters  klein- dorfer 2015 tebbich taborsky fessl dvorak  winkler 2004. the fourth species small ground finch sgf geospiza fuliginosa is a seed feeder that primarily forages on the ground but also has a broad generalist diet including insects particularly during the nesting season chaves et al.

further studies focusing on samples taken from afflicted nestlings and their co-occurring par- asites will determine whether wound microbiome composition encountered by the feeding larvae is host specific and consequently reflected in the larval microbiome.finally we suggest that host diet determines the gut bacterial community in larval p. downsi.

together our results suggest that i p. downsi larval microbiome is differentiated among ecologically divergent finch host species indicating environ- mental or host-related influences and therefore ii there is limited maternal transmission of bacteria from p. downsi adult fly to off- spring.

host-species effectsour results indicate that the darwin's finch host upon which p. downsi larvae feed significantly affects the larval microbiome suggesting uniquely evolving host-parasite interactions in an ecologically diverged multihost island system.

however our findings do not support this notion because no significant differences in the larval microbiota were found within species that were sampled randomly throughout the study area and importantly darwin's finches do not reuse nests though they may usurp a new nest and build a new nest for every nesting attempt kleindorfer 2007 kleindorfer  dudaniec 2009.second differences in the feather microbiota of host species may affect the larval microbiome.

annals of the entomological society of america 110 1-12.bulgarella m. quiroga m. a. brito v. g. a. dregni j. s. cunninghame f. mosquera munoz d. a.

