The numbers of patients suffering from sepsis or septic shock sepsis involving decreased blood pressure amounts to more than 30 million per year and with a mortality of about 30 sepsis is undoubtedly one of the most urgent unmet medical needs of today .

In thischapter we will illustrate that there is an intricate relation between Zn levels and sensitivity to sepsis in animal models as well as in human patients.In human sepsis patients and in pre-clinical models a clear direct link between low zinc levels and sensitivity to SIRS and sepsis has been found .

In fact the most help in sepsis has come from better clinical management strategies instead .Some of the most applied models of SIRS and sepsis relevant for this review paper are the following 1 animals mice can be injected with cell-wall components of gram-negative bacteria lipopolysaccharide LPS or endotoxins leading to SIRS i.e.

In these SIRS and sepsis models as well as in sepsis patients the intestinal epithelium is considered a key barrier that must remain intact to pre- vent intestinal flora from entering the system.

Based on these encouraging data recent trials confirmed the preventive effects of zinc treatment in neonatal sepsis in babies whereby reduced expression of TNF IL6 calprotectin and mortality were observed .Mechanistic impact of zinc on SIRS and sepsisFrom the previous chapter it is clear that there is a link between the nutritional zinc status and resistance against SIRS and sepsis and that zinc might have preventive therapeutic power.

human isolates are used to induce sepsis while in the CLP model cecal flora leads to sepsis in the peritoneal cavity.

However ex-cessive oxidative stress in sepsis patients which is associated with badoutcomes in sepsis  has been shown to lead to lipid perox- idation of cell membranes protein oxidation  DNA damage  mitochondrial damage  and to apoptosis and necrosis .

The same shift is also observed in sepsis patients which leads to the typical anti-inflammatory state in the later phases of sepsis .

All together these data may suggest that part of the immune suppression observed in the later phase of sepsis might be due to acute zinc deficiency and the key to understand the therapeutic role of zinc in sepsis may be found here.

Zn is also shown to induce Treg cells which remain  elevated in pa- tients who die of sepsis .Concluding remarksThe direct association between blood zinc levels and sepsis re- sistance and survival has formed the motivation to identify the poten- tial protective mechanism of zinc in this disease.

