much more needs to be done however for the realization of precision medicine in the oral health domain.the precision medicine initiativethe 2015 initiative on precision medicine1-3 articulated a concerted effort of governmental academic and professional stakeholders to accelerate the translation of the new deeper understanding of human health to better care.

dashboards are necessary to support precision medicine pipelines.the fourth pillar at a time when molecular and genomics applications are in the spotlight there is no better opportunity to increase understanding and operationalize the consideration of the social determinants of health in precision medicine.

while aiming to increase providers' genomics and precision medicine literacy equal emphasis must be placed on the humanistic aspects of health care--let us notdivarispage 3forget that precision medicine is explicit in its consideration of individuals' differences wherever they may originate from.finally for precision health care to succeed government academic corporate and professional stakeholders must take initiatives to prepare and educate the public for this new era of health care.

for this reason a brief overview is in order regarding the progress of precision medicine or precision dentistry in the oral health domain.overall precision medicine in the oral health domain is in its infancy.

precision medicine has been discussed within the realms of periodontology78 pediatrics12 orthodontics14 and oral-maxillofacial surgery.15viewed from a positive angle there is enormous opportunity and potential for dentistry to realize and benefit from the fundamentals of precision medicine.

precision medicine gives clinicians tools to better understand the complex mechanisms underlying a patient's health disease or condition andto enable clinicians to select and apply effective therapies i.e.

to better predict which treatments will be most effective.an illustrative example of how the precision medicine approach can improve outcomes and people's lives in the mental health domain is offered by insel and cuthbert.4 in their modeldivarispage 2patients presenting with a range of mood disorders e.g.

an 'overlapping' symptom-based category with diverse underlying etiologies undergo several tests and data-generating processes--the integration of genomics brain function physiologic behavioral and life experience data can guide the definition of biologically- and mechanistically-homogeneous clusters of patients and thus help optimize their management.six pillars of precision medicinesix important building blocks or pillars need to be in place for the precision medicine initiative to succeed and realize its full potential.

first and foremost the creation of a new taxonomy of human disease.5 the importance of defining biologically molecularly or genetically-defined disease subtypes for otherwise clinically-similar conditions cannot be overemphasized--the cornerstone of precision medicine is naturally the ability to make precise diagnoses based on a mechanistically-informed taxonomy.

advanced personalized or precision approaches may be futile in their implementation unless social and behavioral sciences are intentionally and explicitly integrated in the precision medicine context.actually molecular approaches can elevate the argument for upstream action and precision public health6 because they can illuminate the biological mechanisms which operate between social disadvantage and health outcomes.training precision-minded health care providers is the fifth fundamental pillar--it could very well be the first one.

meaningful community engagement will also help ensure that precision medicine brings about the intended positive health outcomes for all people.the vision for precision oral health carethe information in this article was first presented at the university of north carolina unc perio 2017 expo a 2-day course organized in celebration of 50 years of the unc-chapel hill periodontology residency program and 20 years of the center for oral and systemic disease.

via biosensors precision medicine applications.

the inherent periodicity of routine dental visits adds to the practicality and value of employing the oral health care domain as a possible vehicle for the realization of precision medicine.referencescollins fs varmus h. a new initiative on precision medicine.

realizing the full potential of precision medicine in health and health care.

towards precision medicine.

