These studies will have the potential to 1 redefine the meaning of healthy oral microbiome to include microbes asso- ciated with NO production 2 provide a new target for NO-based therapies and open a new direction in cardiovascular research andallow development of new diagnostics targeted at specific oral microbial communities or select bacteria the absence of which may reflect a state of NO insufficiency and change the treatment strategies for NO restoration in a number of different diseases.

These new discoveries in the oral bacterial microbiome suggest that an effective strategy to pro- mote therapeutically NO production and overcome conditions of NO insufficiency may not solely be to target NOS but rather to focus on understanding specific oral bacterial com- munities and the optimal conditions for efficient oral nitrate reduction.

Importantly because oral NO production is dependent on oral nitrate-reducing bacteria these observationssuggest that the link between oral health issues such as chronic periodontitis and cardiovascular disease may be due in part to decreased abundance of nitrate reducers and concurrent increase of pathogenic bacterial species in the oral cavity.

The potential to restore the oral flora as a means to provide NO production is a completely new paradigm for NO biochem- istry and physiology as well as for cardiovascular medicine and dentistry.There is a known correlation between oral health and sys- temic disease .

Therapeutically then perhaps an effective strategy to promote NO production and overcome conditions of NO insufficiency may not be targeted at eNOS but rather to target specific oral nitrate-reducing bacterial communities and increasing the con- sumption of nitrite and nitrate enriched foods and vegetables.

Disruption of nitrite and NO production in the oral cavity may contribute to the oral-systemic link between oral hygiene and cardiovascular risk and disease.

The identification of new biomarkers for NO insufficiency and the exploitation of the oral microbiota to in- crease cardiovascular health will be enabled by further charac- terization of the enzymatic activities of native oral bacterial communities from larger healthy cohorts and specific patient populations.

Human nitrate reduction requires the presence of nitrate-reducing bacteria as mammalian cells cannot effective- ly reduce this anion.Inorganic nitrite NO - and nitrate NO - are known as23tric oxide synthase eNOS .

Numerous studies have shown that nitrite produced from bac- terial nitrate reduction is an important storage pool for NO in blood and tissues when NOS-mediated NO production is in- sufficient  -.

Nitrite is also an oxidative breakdown product of NO that has been shown to serve as an acute marker of NO fluxformation .

