the numbers of deaths owing to chronic kidney disease ckd and some cancers are increasing globally whereas other aetiologies including ischaemic heart disease cirrhosis and a range of cancers and dementias have shown significant declines in-age standardized disability-adjusted life years dalys amid rising total dalys4.

the activities of the mirnas in the epigenetic sig- nature mirna-125a-5p mirna-125b mirna-96 and mirna-217 therefore relate to the nine hallmarks ofwith longevity frailty and both cognitive and physical fitness4546 and has been used to demonstrate accelerated ageing in a range of conditions including diverse neuro- degenerative conditions parkinson disease alzheimer disease-related neuropathologies lung cancer lifetime stress menopausal age obesity metabolic syndrome coronary heart disease and renal disease45.

for exam- ple the transgenerational effects resulting from use of the endocrine disruptor vinclozolin in pregnant rats did not emerge until the f1-f4 generations male offspring showed altered epigenetic programming of the germ line and increased rates of kidney disease immune system dysfunction prostate disease hypercholesterolaemia and cancer170.conclusionsthe field of epigenetics offers the promise of providing a context-dependent understanding of human healthspan.

improved knowledge of how epigenetic processes regulate ageing and how they interact with disease processes will enable the identification and stratification of patients at increased risk of age-related morbidities including renal disease.

263 302-312 2008.first-in-man description of accelerated ageing in renal disease associated with inflammation and telomere attrition.mckenna t. sola carvajal a.  eriksson m. skin disease in laminopathy-associated premature aging.

fibroblast growth factor 23 and risks of mortality and end-stage renal disease in patients with chronic kidney disease.

circulating endotoxemia a novel factor in systemic inflammation and cardiovascular disease in chronic kidney disease.

we discuss how these processes are altered in progeric diseases and how they impact on renal disease.

the resulting functional changes in cellular biology that reflect accelerated ageing processes in the organ act in concert with stress-driven physiological changes to induce further dysfunction that predisposes to and contributes to the progression of disease processes which may further perturb all the tiers of the epigenome.

putative roles for lncrnas have also been identified in conditions such as heart failure cardiac autophagy hypertension acute kidney injury glomerular disease acute allograft rejection and renal cell carcinoma66.the lncrnas telomerase rna component terc and telomeric repeat-containing rna terra regulate telomere length during cellular ageing63.

knowledge of isomirna targets functions and their involvement in disease processes remains sparse.conversely knowledge of archetype mirnas and their role in the kidney is abundant.

aged individuals and patients with chronic kidney disease ckd have a common renal phenotype1.

ncrna non-coding rna.environmental factorsexactly how environmental factors lead to the molecular pathophysiological changes that are associated with age- ing and disease and how these factors might induce herit- able transgenerational physiological changes is not yet clear.

the findings of a meta-analysis that investi- gated the effects of adversity in early life such as abuse neglect low socioeconomic status on biological ageing determined by telomere length support the hypoth- esis that early adversity has long-lasting physiological consequences that contribute to disease risk biological ageing and diseases of ageing136.

interestingly igf2 tran- scription is regulated by mirna-125b mirna-let 7a and mirna-483 which have been implicated in the control ofimprinted genea gene that is expressed in a manner that is epigenetically determined by the sex of the parent who contributedthe gene typically through methylation-based gene silencing.will affect organ dysfunction rate of disease progression and the type timing and severity of associated comorbid- ities.

