Synergistic effect of protease and direct-fed microbial DFM on digestible energy in grower pigs--meta-analysis of pooled data from 3 studies.of action contributes to the improvements in growth performance and efficiency seen in pigs fed the novel protease and DFM combination.The current study showed that the main effect of pro- tease increased ATTD of N but protease x DFM interac- tions showed that the protease treatment did not improve protein digestibility compared to the control.

There was an interac- tion between protease and DFM for serum creatinine P  0.043 where the protease and DFM treatments numeri- cally increased creatinine compared to the control P  0.05 1.05 and 1.05 vs. 0.98 but the protease  DFMtreatment did not P  0.05 1.00 vs. 0.98.DISCUSSIONThe main suggested mode of action of proteases is increasing the hydrolysis of proteins in the small intestine Olukosi et al.

In the current study the main effect of protease increased BW at d 42 and ADG from d 21 to 42 and overall however the interactions be- tween protease and DFM showed that the protease treatment did not improve BW or GF compared to the control.

The main effect of protease is improved compared to the protease treatment versus control ef- fect because it carries weight from the protease  DFM treatment in the statistical analysis which is a factorial design.

Treatments n 4 were set up as a 2 x 2 factorial design with 2 levels of protease 0 and 5.0006.000 unitskilogram of feed UKG and 2 levels of DFM 0 and 1.5 x 105 colony forming unitsgram of feed CFUG plus a protease DFM combination.

There were no interactions between protease and DFM P  0.05 however the protease  DFM combination was the only treatment to improve ADG and GF in all phases compared to the control.

The main effect of DFM increased ATTD of DM N GE DE ADF and fat P  0.02.There was a trend for an interaction between protease and DFM for ATTD of GE and DE P  0.08 because the protease  DFM combination increased energy digestibility more than the additive effects of the pro- tease and DFM alone.

The main effects of protease and DFM decreased fecal ammonia emissions P  0.01 but the protease  DFM combination was the only treatment to decrease ammonia emissions com- pared to the control.

In conclusion the main effects of protease and DFM improved growth performance and nutrient digestibility compared to the control but there was a greater additive effect of the protease  DFM combination on energy and N digestibility.Key words digestibility direct-fed microbial grower pig growth performance proteasec 2017 American Society of Animal Science.

The main effects were protease 0 or 50006000 Ukg and DFM 0 or1.5 x 105 cfug and the interaction of protease x DFM.Study was a random effect to account for the heterogene- ity between studies Lean et al.

