although promising phage- mediated gene therapy faces several outstanding challenges the most notable being lower gene deliv- ery efficiency compared to animal viruses vector stability and nondesirable immune stimulation.result this review presents a critical review of promises and challenges of employing phage as gene delivery vehicles as well as an introduction to the concept of phage-based microbiome therapy as the new frontier and perhaps the most promising application of phage-based for gene therapy.keywords microbiome therapy dna vaccines phage therapy bionanoparticles lysogeny.introduction add more citationsgene therapy the use of genetic material dna or rna for treating or prevention of disease holds great promise for treating genetic disorders 1 cardiovascular disease 2 and cancer 3. more than 60 of clinical trials of gene therapy to date have focused on cancer treatment followed by monogenic disease infectious disease and cardiovascular disease each holding a share of close to 10 4. further- more in the light of the new discoveries connecting various aspect of our physical and mental health to the balance in the collection of microorganisms that reside in our bodies i.e.

development of gene carriers or vectors that can protect the gene of interest against harsh environmental factors in the body ph nucleases efficiently transport the gene across all barriers external and internal to the cell nucleus and do so in a selective and targeted man- ner is the most important challenge of gene therapy.most applications of gene therapy to date have involved the introduction of a therapeutic genetic payload into mam- malian cells.

see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at article in current gene therapy  may 2017doi 10.21741566523217666170510151940citations0reads2891 author 21 publications 199 citationsall content following this page was uploaded by on 02 september 2017.the user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.current gene therapy 2017 17 000-0001 review articlephage-mediated gene therapyzeinab hosseinidoustdepartment of chemical engineering faculty of engineering mcmaster university hamilton canadaa r t i c l e h i s t o r yabstract background bacteriophages bacterial viruses have long been under investigation as vec- tors for gene therapy.

non- viral methods can be designed to be non-immunogenic and there are no outstanding concerns regarding oncogenic out- comes 17. moreover using non-viral vehicles partially bypasses the limitation with gene size one of the limitations with viral vectors 18. however the efficiency of such systems is limited in vivo compared to viral vectors which have been designed by nature to deliver genes into eukary- otic cells and thus large quantities of dna are required to achieve high efficiencies.bacteriophage-based gene delivery offers the best of both worlds harmless vectors that offer gene protection and are customizable to enable targeted delivery.

in the following the advantages and challenges of using phage for gene delivery are outlined.exploitable characteristics of phage for gene therapyhistory of safe human usethe chief advantage of bacteriophages in the context of gene delivery is their safety for human use.

similar to other viral vectors the phage coat proteins have evolved over millions of years to protect the viral genome from degradation post injection offering protection for the valu- able therapeutic sequence.material and methods however what sets phage apart from other viral gene delivery vectors is their safety for human use and the relative ease by which foreign molecules can be expressed on the phagereceived april 04 2017revised may 02 2017accepted may 02 2017doi 10.21741566523217666170510151940outer surface enabling highly targeted gene delivery.

our microbiota gene therapy is the center of attention for a new therapeutic approach that targets dysbiosis in human microbiota namely microbiome therapy 5.the efficacy of gene therapy depends to a large extent on the efficiency of the vehicle used to introduce the desired genetic materials into cells.

therefore utilizing eukaryotic viruses is the most sure- fire way to introduce high loads of therapeutic nucleic acid into mammalian cells which explains why close to 70 of all clinical trials to date have utilized viral vectors 4. viral vectors further offer the advantage of being customizable through recombinant dna technology which means that their surfaces can be decorated with the desired pro- teinspeptides that add to the therapeutic function or allow for more selectivitytargeted action 10. the use of hu- mananimal viruses as vectors for therapeutic gene delivery however is hindered by serious concerns about immuno- genicity and mutagenesis 11-13 with major concerns re- garding oncogenic outcomes 14. furthermore most viral vectors are replication deficient and thus require the use of helper viruses for propagation the helper virus can thus con- taminate the vector preparations further adding to the safety concerns of viral vectors 15. although methods have been proposed for the production of self-inactivating helper vi- ruses 16 these methods require additional steps that are lengthy and laborious and will still require purification of the final vector stock.1566-523217 58.00.00c 2017 bentham science publishersthe outstanding limitations of viral vectors can be allevi- ated by using non-viral means of gene delivery e.g.

1. schematic representation of major phage groups 22. rightlink number.ameter ssdna genome 43 lambda tailed phage 200 nm long head diameter 55 nm dsdna genome 44 and ms2 icosahedral phage 60 nm in diameter rna genome 45. reports also exist of gene delivery using t phages t7 and t4 both tailed dsdna genome 46.the marked advantage of phage compared to other non- viral gene delivery vectors is its inherent ability to effec- tively protect rna.

overlaps of key genetic elements directly couple the coding sequence of one gene to the coding or regulatory sequence of another making it difficult to alter one gene without disrupting the other.

science 2000 288 5466 669-672.morishita r. higaki j. tomita n. ogihara t. application of transcription factor decoy strategy as means of gene therapy and study of gene expression in cardiovascular disease.

oncotarget 2011 2 3 113-121.sadelain m. insertional oncogenesis in gene therapy how much of a risk gene ther.

the latter property also makes phage a popular choice for gene therapy target discovery through directed evolution.

this characteristic is advantageous for gene delivery because it ensures that the delivery vector is safe for human use.

the same property also significantly limits the effi- ciency of gene delivery by phage because they are not armed with the means to invade and deliver genes to mam- malian cells.

