the prevalence of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is 56 in patients with nafld which is increased when compared with healthy controls 21. however there was no significant correlation between small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and presence of nash lobular inflammation or fibrosis score within the nafld patient cohort 22. using cultures of duodenal aspirates small intestinal bacterial overgrowth defined as colony count above 105 cfuml was present in 38 of patients with nafld 23. patients with small intestinal bacterial overgrowth had significantly higher endotoxin levels but there was again no association with nash 23. a recent preclinical trial emphasized the importance of bacterial overgrowth mediated by a prolonged orofecal transit time in patients with nafld and nash.

increased intestinal inflammation is also present in patients with nafld as exemplified by intestinal tight junction disruption changes in immune cell populations and increased intestinal cytokine levels 35.bacterial metabolitesas diagnosis of nash requires a liver biopsy extensive efforts have been made to find non- invasive sensitive methods to detect early stages of disease and to stage progressive nash.

the intestinal microbiota is one contributing pathogenic factor figure 1. nash is associated with changes in the intestinal microbiota composition and metabolome intestinal and systemic inflammatory response and bile acid profiles.

increased levels of microbial products ethanol and an altered bile acid profile have been detected in patients with nash.table 1summary of key pathways involving the gut-liver axis important for nashreceptortype of deficiencymechanismmodel usedeffectref pattern recognition receptorstlr4global deficiencytlr4md2 mediated signals contribute to liver pathology via nadph- dependent lipid-peroxidation and oxidative stresstlr5tlr5 deficiency in hepatocytesloss of hepatocyte tlr5 potentiates high-fat diet induced pro-inflammatorygene expression via nod-like receptor c4 inflammasomemcd dietdetrimental26mcd diet hfdprotective28tlr9tlr9 deficiency in lysosome producing cells neutrophils and kcsbile acid receptorspro-inflammatory response via tlr9 activationhfddetrimental27fxrintestine specific deficiencyreduced triglyceride accumulation due to low ceramide synthesis genes29gut-restricted fxr activation reduces diet-induced weight gain inflammation hepatic glucose production and enhances thermogenesis and browning of white adipose tissue 30hfdcontroversial29 30tgr5global deficiencyantilipogenic effects of intestinal fxr agonist are tgr5 dependenthfdpart of the protective effect ofthe intestinal specific fxr agonist is reduced in tgr5 deficient mice30hfd high-fat diet tlr toll-like receptor mcd methionine and choline deficient diet nash nonalcoholic steatohepatitis fxr farnesoid x receptor tgr takeda-g-protein coupled receptor 5 kc kupffer cell

one proposed mechanism involves an increased susceptibility to intestinal permeability in patients with nash 25. as a consequence serum endotoxin levels were significantly higher and may be responsible for liver injury in these patients.

proportions of proteobacteriaenterobacteriacieaeescherichia were higher in pediatric nash patients compared to healthy controls and obese patients 21. other genera that showed significant differences between healthy controls and pediatric nash patients included decreased levels of alistipes blautia coprococcus eubacterium oscillospira and bifidobacterium.

in contrast to adult nash patients that showed decreased levels of prevotella samples from children with nash demonstrated a significant increase in prevotella 21. another study using pediatric nash patients found decreased levels of oscillispira and in line with the study using adult patients increased levels of ruminococcus.

a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trialbrandl and schnablpage 6showed improved histological features in patients with non-cirrhotic nash patients with obeticholic acid given orally 25 mg daily for 72 weeks 40. a higher number of patients treated with obeticholic acid had improvement in fibrosis hepatocellular ballooning steatosis and lobular inflammation 40. treatment with obeticholic acid was associated with higher concentrations of total serum cholesterol and ldl cholesterol and a decrease in hdl cholesterol.

mechanisms include increased energy harvest by the microbiota from an obese individual higher short chain fatty acid production dysbiosis-induced intestinal inflammation and gut barrier dysfunction regulation of appetite and affecting the host immune system 6 7. some of these changes appear to be relevant for mice but not for humans 8.this review summarizes ties between intestinal microbiota changes and development of nash that have been discovered over the last two years.

intestinal inflammation and the resulting production of several cytokines could play an underlying role in permeability changes 32 33. recent evidence suggests diet-induced obesity as a trigger of intestinal inflammation and insulin resistance 34. a pro-inflammatory shift in gut immune cell populations was demonstrated in mice upon high fat diet feeding and obese humans.

interestingly 5-asa treatment also significantly improved intestinal permeability and reduced liver steatosis 34 further providing evidence for a link between intestinal inflammation changes in gut permeability and progression of liver disease.

we will also preferentially focus on human studies although mechanistic studies require rodent experiments.intestinal microbiota changes in patients with nashvarious liver diseases including nash are associated with intestinal dysbiosis 9. gut microbiota affects digestion and absorption of nutrients the host immune system and the production of gut hormones 10. human microbiota studies in nash are sparse with only very few reports demonstrating an association between gut dysbiosis and nash.

genetic disposition leading to defects in the integrity of the epithelial barrier may therefore predispose patients to hepatic inflammation and nash progression 31.besides genetic predisposition the inciting event responsible for increased intestinal permeability has not been clearly identified.

fgf19 reaches hepatocytes and suppresses the rate-limiting enzyme in the bile acid synthesis pathway cyp7a1 38. serum fgf19 was not different between nash patients and healthy controls 37 indicating that changes in intestinal bile acid composition did not alter fxr activity in the ileum.

small intestinal bacterial overgrowth and toll-like receptor signaling in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

