an improved understanding of the involvement of the gut microbiota in the development and aetiology of obesity and metabolic disorders however is urgently needed to guide us towards improved means of disease diagnosis management and prevention cani and delzenne 2011.through the transition from adulthood to old age the gut microbiome changes towards a reduced diversity and a greater inter-individual variation claesson et al.

2013 notably was found more abundant in the normal glucose tolerant than in pre-diabetic and diabetic study participants.diet is an obvious link between the gut microbiota community and host metabolic impairment and various mechanisms have been described by which gut microorganisms may take influence on the balance between energy intake and expenditure clarke et al.

2012. generally effects of diet on the resident gut microbiota are complex and may be obscured in correlative analysis due to numerous types of cross-feeding commonly occurring in the gut flint et al.

while this may be also due to smaller effect sizes here than in other more distinctively gut microbiota-related diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease walters et al.

2012 and were among the highly prevalent taxa found in the midwestern reference panel mwrp resource for comparative gut microbiome studies chen et al.

holdemania is one of the 30 most abundant genera in the gut microbiome of individuals from high income countries arumugam et al.

2011 and is also among the most prevalent genera found in the midwestern reference panel mwrp resource for comparative gut microbiome studies chen et al.

notably ruminococcaceae formed the most dominant family in the gut of the hadza hunter gatherers with a foraging life style schnorr et al.

2014. in commensal clostridia which include mucus- colonising and mucus degrading microorganisms that closely interact with the host and other resident microbiota butyrate synthesis following the breakdown of complex polysaccharides has been directly linked to their key role in maintaining gut homeostasis and host health lopetuso et al.

identifying critical roles of major gut microbiota components in metabolic disorders has important translational implications regarding the prevention and treatment of metabolic diseases by means of preventing or reversing dysbiosis and by controlling exacerbating diet and life style factors particularly in sensitive population groups.keywords microbiome 16s rrna obesity diabetesintroductionthe prevalence of the metabolic syndrome ms has been increasing worldwide notably in the older population making it a serious public health problem o'neill and o'driscoll 2015. ms is a clustering of multiple risk factors including central obesity insulin resistance dyslipidaemia and hypertension which together culminate in adverse outcomes such as type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm andcardiovascular disease sookoian and pirola 2011. besides other causative influences a diet high in fats specifically industrially produced trans-fatty acids and refined carbohydrates is a well acknowledged factor in ms which contributes to its two major clinical features central obesity and insulin resistance despres and lemieux 2006 micha and mozaffarian 2009. at the interface of diet and host metabolism the human gut microbiota has been implicated a significant role in ms disease aetiology.issn 1876-2883 print issn 1876-2891 online doi 10.3920bm2016.0184545k.

2010.although previous studies have found states of metabolic impairment and obesity associated with changes in gut microbiota composition and diversity yet no consistent signatures of the gut microbial communities have been identified that are defining these adverse health conditions.

lippert et al.aglucose metabolismlipid metabolismfirmicutesactinobacteria bacteroidetesfirmicutestenericutes proteobacterialachnospiraceaeveillonellaceae erysipelotrichaceaelachnospiraceaeblautia megasphaera acidaminococcusholdemania eggerthella bacteroides rikenellaceaes24-7ruminococcaceaesha-98christensenellaceaeturicibacterrf39campylobacteraceae10.80.60.40.20- 0.2- 0.4- 0.6-0.8-1bturicibacteraceae1firmicuteslachnospiraceae0figure 5. correlations of various gut microbiota groups a with clinical parameters of the glucose and lipid metabolism kidney function liver enzyme activity and adipokines and b with epic-nutrition markers.

lippert et al.

armougom et al.

2009 turnbaugh et al.

