a u.k.- wide survey showed that 73 of retail fresh whole chilled chickens were contaminated with campylobacter fsa  and a pressing need exists for strategies to control the problem during broiler production.because the intestine of living poultry is the main ampli- fication site for campylobacter in the food chain reducing the caecal campylobacter load in poultry is expected to significantly reduce the incidence of human campylobacter- iosis hermans et al.

johnsonii log101cfug86420246johnsonii log101cfugfigure 3. scatter plots of bacterial concentrations from the caeca of individual birds from group d lj-cj at a d 15 1 d post challenge r  -0.92 p  0.026 and b d 20 6 d post challenge r  0.40 p  0.50. open birds from cage 7 filled birds from cage 8.individual birds at this time point .

in addition to the differences in methodology both the geno- type of the birds and the composition of the microflora may contribute to differences between studies.there have been a number of earlier studies on compe- titive exclusion and probiotic treatment to reduce campylobacter in poultry hermans et al.

another risk assessment model found that variability in the numbers of campylobacter in broiler faeces and the number on the exterior of carcasses had a large impact on estimated risks and that a high concentration of campylobacter in the faeces had a dominant impact on human infection nauta et al.

at 6 d post challenge 1 bird from cage 3 and another one from cage 7 were positive with spleen counts of 3.04 and 4.19 log10 cfug respectively.the mean counts of c. jejuni from caecal contents at 1 d post challenge were between 4-7 log10 cfug in both treat- ment groups b c-cj and d lj-cj  b looking at individual birds although the counts of c. jejuni in birds treated with l. johnsonii varied in a similar range as in those not given the probiotic we observed a significant negative correlation r  -0.92 p  0.026 between the concentration of c. jejuni and l. johnsonii in the caeca of birds inoculated with both bacteria .at 6 d post challenge d 20 there was more variation depending on the group.

all 3 birds from cage 8 tested at 1 d post challenge still had good colonisation of the crop as high numbers in the crop were significantly correlated to high counts in other tissues it is possible that a high population in the crop may have acted as a reservoir for the rest of the gi tract and contributed to more effective persistence.the differences in l. johnsonii colonisation appeared to have an effect on the persistence of c. jejuni birds from cage 8 whose earlier-sampled birds had established a high level of l. johnsonii colonisation showed 4-5-log10 less c. jejuni counts than controls at d 6 post challenge.

birds were reared in wire cages at 30degc from 1 d of age decreasing to 20degc at 3 weeks of age and given ad libitum access to water and a vegetable-based protein diet special diet services witham u.k.. birds were confirmed to be culture negative for campylobacter prior to inocula- tion.

just a few viable c. jejuni cells can lead to colonisation and once some birds becomeinfected c. jejuni can spread rapidly through a flock which remains colonised up to the time of slaughter van gerwe et al.

the highest levels of colonisation are found in the colon and caeca of infected birds beery et al.

however it cannot be ruled out that another variable affected the birds in cage 8 which led to the differences in colonisation of both l. johnsonii and c. jejuni.it was interesting that the dgge analysis showed no separation between controls and chicken inoculated withjejuni alone a recent study using 16s rrna gene sequen- cing showed that while c. jejuni colonisation did not affect the caecal microbiome alpha diversity there was a moderate effect on the beta diversity thibodeau et al.

globally campylobacter is one of the most frequent causes of food-borne illness with 96 million cases in 2010 havelaar et al.

campylobacter counts were also reduced in trials with commercial products by 1.4-logs multispecies probiotic broilact schneitz and hakkinen  and 3- logs probiotic calsporin guyard-nicodeme et al.

these studies demonstrate the potential of probiotics to combat high levels of c. jejuni in the chicken gut.a study on campylobacter contamination of broiler car- casses showed a positive correlation between the number of bacteria in the caeca and the number on carcasses reich et al.

mathematical modelling pre- dicted that a 2-log10 reduction in the number of campylobacter on chicken carcasses could lead to a 30- fold decrease in campylobacteriosis resulting from eating chickens and showed a linear relationship between flock prevalence and campylobacteriosis rosenquist et al.

birds were wing-banded to allow identification of individuals.the birds were randomly allocated to one of 8 cages within a 2 x 2 factorial arrangement of treatments 2 cagestreatment 6 chicks per cage.

