The authors consider a contribution of inflammatory process and chronic infection to the manifestation and progressing of a neurodegenerative disease and discuss the use of treatment not usually indicated including interferon anti-inflammatory drugs statin vitamin D monoclonal antibodies correction of the intestinal microbiota in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.Keywords Parkinson's disease Alzheimer's disease multiple sclerosis pathogenesis inflammation neurodegeneration therapy.Segodnia stanovitsia vse trudnee provesti raz- granichenie mezhdu sosudistym degenerativnym i immunnooposredovannym autoimmunnym vospa- litel'nym zabolevaniiami nervnoi sistemy.

POLTAVSKYKirov Military Medical Academy St. Petersburg RussiaHere we discuss the pathogenesis of the inflammatory and degenerative nervous system disorders on the example of Parkinson's disease Alzheimer's disease multiple sclerosis.

Serum immune markers and disease progression in an incident Parkinson's disease cohort ICICLE-PD.

Hyperhomocysteinemia in Parkinson's disease -- new vari- ant of complications of ongoing therapy or specific biochemical marker of the disease Annaly klinicheskoi i eksperimental'noi nevrologii.

Modern view on etiology of Parkinson's disease.

Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs in Alzheimer's Disease and Parkinson's Disease Reconsidering the Role of Neuroinflammation.

2010361812- 1841. httpsdoi.org10.3390ph3061812Manthripragada AD Schernhammer ES Qiu J Friis S Wermuth L Olsen JH Ritz B. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and the risk of Parkinson's disease.

Differential induction of dyskinesia and neuroinflammation by pulsatile versus continuous l-DOPA delivery in the 6-OHDA model of Parkinson's disease.

Vagotomy and subsequent risk of Parkinson's disease.

2015784522-529. httpsdoi.org10.1002ana.24448Barrenschee M Zorenkov D Bottner M Lange C Cossais F Scharf AB Deuschl G Schneider SA Ellrichmann M Fritscher-Ravens A Wedel T. Distinct pattern of enteric phospho-alpha-synuclein aggregates and gene expression profiles in patients with Parkinson's disease.

