the relative level of p. copri was 1 log lower in e. histolytica-colonized samples as compared to the level in e. histolytica diarrheal samples figure 4a but was unchanged in e. dispar or e. bangladeshi infections when diar- rheal and nondiarrheal cases were compared figure 4b and 4c.discussionthe present study reports an overall frequency of entamoeba species in our samples collected from gastrointestinal clinics as 27 129484 with e. histolytica being present in 6.4 of the cases 31484. differences in the assay used as well as in age geographic location and the fact that these samples were collected from gastrointestinal clinics make it difficult to compare these results to those obtained from previous population-based studies 4 8. a weakness in the current study was that information on human immunodeficiency virus status expected to increase with age was not available.

histolytica-positive samples the levels of both the parasite and p. copri were lower in nondiarrheal samples validating the results of a study in bangladesh p  .0034. by contrast in e. histolytica-negative samples positive for either of the nonpathogenic speciese.

sequencing of the purified amplicon identified 10 addi- tional e. histolytica-positive samples n  41 with an adjusted frequency entamoeba qpcr-positive samples of 29.3 and 1 additional e. bangladeshi sample n  23 with an adjusted pos- itivity frequency of 16.4 figure 2. this result suggested that in these samples the parasite level had simply fallen below the detection limit of the species-specific qpcr assay.

col asymptomatic colonizer samples ds diarrheal samples ns not significant.entamoeba species in south africa  jid 2017216 15 december  1597pathogenicity of the recently identified e. bangladeshi is still un- certain but the level of e. bangladeshi was also the same in both diarrheal and nondiarrheal south african samples.

in pre- liminary work samples collected from patients of all ages vis- iting a gastroenterology clinic between november 2013 and june 2015 in both rural giyani mopani district limpopo and urban pretoria soshanguve district gauteng south africa were evaluated by microscopy for the presence of ameboid organisms and 50 of the samples were entamoeba positive.

the aliquoted samples were shipped to the university of virginia infectious diseases research laboratory for analysis.genomic dna purificationgenomic dna from each patient's sample was extracted using a qiaamp dna stool mini kit qiagen according to the man- ufacturer's recommended procedures using approximately 200 mg of stool samples with the modifications described by liu et al 14. one stool sample from a healthy us child whose stool had previously been tested and found to be negative for all entamoeba species was included in each batch to monitor for the occurrence of contamination during extraction.

the south african sequences were identical to that of e. bangladeshi.characterization of entamoeba samples not identified by species-specific probesentamoeba primers ehd-88r em-rt-f2 were used to am-plify dna fragments from the 49 samples that were qpcrentamoeba species in south africa  jid 2017216 15 december  1595figure 2. entamoeba species found in south african populations.

in 13 cases the 18s rrna amplicon sequences were similar to those of the non- pathogenic species e. hartmanni all sequences were deposited in genbank under accession numbers mf471201-mf471217 and in the remaining 11 cases either no useful sequence data were obtained or findings were similar to sequences from bac- teria and had no significant similarity to any entamoeba refer- ence sequence in the ncbi database.parasite burden in south african samplesother enteropathogens are common in this south african population and in diarrheal samples coinfections can make itchallenging to identify the causal organism 4. entamoeba were no more frequent in diarrheal samples than in controls data not shown.

the sequences of the closely related species also blocked nonspecific hybridization allowing the higher assay cq cutoff of 40 and increased assay sensitivity figure 1a 22.a higher e. histolytica parasite burden in samples increases the probability that the e. histolytica strain detected is respon- sible for diarrheal symptoms 9 17. in agreement with the previous studies our results showed a statistically significant increase in the e. histolytica parasite load in south african diar- rheal samples.

therefore samples that were positive with the entamoeba general probe but negative with the spe- cies-specific probes were characterized by amplicon sequenc- ing figure 3 1 3 23 24. while novel south african entamoeba species were not identified to our knowledge this study is the first to describe the presence of e. bangladeshi in samples collected outside bangladesh.

e. bangladeshi is indistinguishable by microscopy from e. histolytica the proto- typical pathogenic entamoeba species but it can be differenti- ated from other known entamoeba species by immunologic and molecular techniques.a recent study involving stool samples collected from infants age range 0-24 months residing in vhembe district limpopo south africa failed however to detect e. histolyt- ica by polymerase chain reaction pcr analysis 4. howevere.

these findings might be due to the presence of other morpho- logically identical non-e. histolytica species of entamoeba such as e. dispar and e. bangladeshi to geographical heterogeneity in the frequency of e. histolytica in south african populations or to a much lower frequency of e. histolytica in the communi- ty-based surveys of enteric disease than in patients requiring clinical care 3 6 7.to test these hypotheses dna was extracted from the giyani and pretoria samples and a multiplex quantitative pcr qpcrtable 1. water and sewage arrangements among households by gastrointestinal clinic and districtsassay was used to detect both e. histolytica and the other mor- phologically identical entamoeba species such as e. dispare.

this assay was also modi- fied to include a general entamoeba probe to capture data on the presence of novel entamoeba species genetically similar to the pathogenic species e. histolytica that may be present in the south african population.the qpcr assay data captured quantitative information andthis permitted us to examine the correlation between the para-clinic districtpiped waterflush toilet connected to sewage system site burden in these samples and the outcome of infection.

the presence of entamoeba organisms was associated with a decrease in the abundance of prevotella copri in farmers and fishermen from southwest cameroon 10 and the abundance of p. copri increased in diarrheal e. histolytica cases 9. hence we also sought to quantify this bacterium in the microbi- ome of entamoeba-positive samples in our study population.methodsethics statementthe research and ethics committee of the university of venda granted institutional approval.

we also obtained permission from the ethics committee of participating hospitals and clin- ics to collect samples.

