alterations in gut microbiome were significantly associated with weight loss and with reduced hedonic eating after surgery however a larger sample is needed to confirm these findings.key words appetite bariatric surgery food addiction gut microbiome hedonic eating sleeve gastrectomy.introductionariatric surgery is currently the most effective intervention for the treatment of obesity 1. the mechanisms underlying bariatric surgery-induced weight loss are complex and are poorly understood.

increased hedonic responses to highly palatable foods have been reported in obese individuals 17-19. several bariatric procedures including roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb duodenal-jejunal bypass and vertical sleeve gastrectomy have shown to decrease hedonic responses to highly palatable foods and to affect dopamine release in the striatum 20-23.by assessing changes in food intake and hedonic eating after bariatric surgery and their relationship with the gut microbiome we aimed to test the following hypotheses 1 laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy lsg results in distinct changes in gut microbial com- position which are able to discriminate between pre- and postsurgi- cal status 2 alterations in gut microbial composition are related to weight loss and 3 these gut microbial changes are associated with changes in ingestive behaviors that are conducive to weight loss.methodsstudy sampleeight obese right-handed female adult study participants age  39.5 8.7 years body mass index bmi  44.1 5.6 kgm2 were recruited before undergoing lsg at the ucla ronald reagan medical center in los angeles from june 2014 to june 2015. all selected study participants underwent a preoperative evaluation by a multidisciplinary team including nutritionists bariatric surgeons gastroenterologists and psychologists at the center for obesity and metabolic health comet following the american gastrointestinal and endoscopic surgeons guidelines for bariat- ric surgery 24.we excluded study participants with previous major gastro- intestinal surgery history of neurologicalmental disease including eating disorders or who were using medications known to affect appetite or psy- chotropic medications who were pregnant had any contraindication for undergoing magnetic resonance imaging or had received antibiotics or probiotics within 3 months of inclusion.

study participants were pro- vided detailed instructions to record all food and beverage consumed for a 3-day period both at baseline before surgery and 1 month after surgery.

adonis analysis a permutational analysis of variance was performed to test for differences in overall micro- bial composition before and after surgery.differences in taxonomic abundance of the gut microbiomedifferences in phylum and genus abundance between pre- and post surgery samples were evaluated using deseq2 in r 28. unrarefied 16s rrna count data were first filtered to remove observable taxonomic units present in only one sample then fitted to multivariate negative binomial models with surgery status before and after and subject as covariates.

spls-da is our method of choice given its good classification performance and its ability to deal with a large number of predictors small sample size and high co- linearity among predictors 3233. spls-da was performed using the r package mixomics .as recommended the number of components to identify was fixed at 1 32.33. to select the optimal number of features for this component we es- timated the leave-one-out classification error with respect to a range of num-resultseffects of bariatric surgery on measures of obesity appetite and food intakein this sample the m sd average excess weight loss achieved at 1 month after surgery was 27.4 11.4 corresponding to a mean weight loss of 12.6 kg.

surgery had a profound effect in measures of obesity appetite and hedonic eating.significant p  .05 significant p  .001. postbariatric microbiome and hedonic eating differences before and after surgery in taxonomic profiles at the phylum and genus levels was determined using deseq2.

 original articlesurgically induced changes in gut microbiome and hedonic eating as related to weight loss preliminary findings in obese women undergoing bariatric surgeryclaudia p. sanmiguel md jonathan jacobs md phd arpana gupta phd tiffany ju ba jean stains rn kristen coveleskie phd venu lagishetty phd anna balioukova rn yijun chen md erik dutson md emeran a. mayer md phd and jennifer s. labus phdabstractobjective weight loss surgery results in significant changes in the anatomy function and intraluminal environment of the gastrointestinal tract affecting the gut microbiome.

although bariatric surgery results in sustained weight loss decreased appetite and hedonic eating it is unknown whether the surgery-induced alterations in gut microbiota play a role in the observed changes in hedonic eating.

implicated mechanisms include alterations in the anatomy physiology and microenvironment of the digestive tract which in turn result in changes in gut microbial composition and function 2-5. remarkably the transplantation of fecal microbiota from a postbariatric surgery donor is able to confer weight and fat mass reduction to germ-free recipient mice 67. these findings support the idea that inherent properties of thepostbariatric gut microbiome are able to influence weight and metabolism.

although multiple mechanisms may be involved in mediating these microbiome-related effects the possible role of changes in gut microbiota-brain interactions affecting ingestive behaviors and hedonic eating have not been studied.the brain-gut-microbiome axis is a bidirectional communi- cation system which plays a central role in the maintenance offrom the ingestive behavior and obesity program sanmiguel gupta ju stains coveleskie mayer labus oppenheimer center for neurobiology of stress  resilience department of surgery balioukova chen dutson center for obesity and metabolic health ucla microbiome center sanmiguel jacobs lagishetty mayer labus and david geffen school of medicine at ucla sanmiguel jacobs gupta ju stains lagishetty balioukova chen dutson mayer labus los angeles california.address correspondence and reprint requests to claudia p. sanmiguel md ucla chs 42-210 10833 le conte ave los angeles ca 90095-7378. e-mail received for publication may 1 2016 revision received april 14 2017. doi 10.1097psy.0000000000000494copyright c 2017 the authors.

all participants provided written consent before study participation.anthropometrics and body compositiona certified nutritionist at the ucla clinical  translational research center obtained measures for height weight bmi and waist circum- ference using techniques and methods described in national health and nutrition examination survey iii at baseline and at 1 month after surgery.

ratings were averaged across all runs from each condition to obtain an overall desire to eat rating for each stimuli type high- versus low-calorie foods and sweets versus savory foods versus fruit versus salads for each participant before and after surgery.microbiome composition assessment16s ribosomal rna gene sequencing stool samples were collected at baseline and at 1-month after surgery.

prepost surgery differences in alpha diversity were calculatedusing a nonparametric t test and 1000 monte carlo permutations were used to calculate the nonparametric p value.

p values for differential abundance between preoperative versus postoperative status were converted to q values to correct for multiple hypothesis test- ing .05 for significance 29. the significance of the firmicutes bacteroidetes ratio was determined using the mann-whitney u test.multilevel sparse partial least square-discriminant analysis spls-da was applied to identify genus-level taxa specific able to discriminate the ef- fects of surgery within individuals.

lsg resulted in a marked reduction in all measures of obesity and in measures of appetite food intake and hedonic eating as described in table 1. before surgery study participants gave higher ratings to high-calorie foods and sweet foods than to low-calorie foods when rating their sub- jective desire to eat these types of foods.

