fecal transfer from obese conventionally housed mice to germ-free mice induces weight gain in germ-free mice proportionate to that in conventional mice that were fed an hfd even in the ab- sence of increased food intake 40. moreover in the obese state the composition of gut microbiota is reported to have changed from that in the lean state 41 42. these results clearly suggest that gut microbiota affects host energy metabolism.

gut microbiota modulates whole-body me- tabolism energy homeostasis and the immune sys- tem and can even affect complex behavioral traits 3-6. recent studies have demonstrated that gut microbiota is involved in the control of body weight and energy homeostasis even in humans 7 8. moreover transplantation of gut microbiota from an obese twin toa germ-free mouse could induce dramatic changes such as an increase in body weight and total fat con- tent a reduction in lean body mass and development of insulin resistance even with a lower food intake compared with mice that were inoculated with micro- biota from a lean twin 9. collectively these reports suggest that gut microbiota could be an important fac- tor in the regulation of fat storage and energy homeo- stasis in the host however the connection between gut microbiota and energy metabolism needs additional evaluation.humans and small animals can increase energy expenditure via uncoupling oxidative phosphoryla- tion mediated by uncoupling protein 1 ucp1 which is located in the mitochondria of brown adipose tissue bat 10 11. bat is present at distinct anatomic sites including the interscapular perirenal and axillary depots 12. brown-like adipocytes also emerge in in- guinal white adipose tissue wat known as beige cells in a process that is referred to as browning 13 14 however the relationship between gut microbiota and the regulation of brown and beige adipocyte function is unclear.saturation metabolism of linoleic acid la--a di- etary polyunsaturated fatty acid--in gut lactic acid bacteria could produce unique fatty acids including hydroxy oxo conjugated and partially saturated trans-fatty acids 15. some of these unique fatty acids were detected not only in the gastrointestinal tract but also in the plasma and peripheral organs and all the more so in specific pathogen-free mice than in germ free mice 9 16. in addition these fatty acids have been reported to possess specific biologic activities.

4e f.effects of ketoa on energy expenditure and obesity in wt and trpv1-ko miceupon investigating the effect of dietary ketoa intake on energy expenditure and adiposity in high-fat diet hfd-induced obese mice it was found that ketoa intake could suppress hfd-induced body weight gain for .6 wk in wt mice but not in trpv1-ko mice as shown in fig.

ten weeks after feeding each adipose tissue weight was significantly lower in ketoa-treated wt mice compared with control mice whereas such a difference was not observed in trpv1-ko mice fig.

however no differ- ences in food intake and locomotor activities were ob- served to have resulted from ketoa intake in any of the 2 genotypes supplemental table 1. in the analysis of plasma characteristics a ketoa diet significantly lowered plasma insulin levels in wt mice but not in trpv1-ko mice whereas plasma glucose and adi- ponectin levels remained unaffected in both geno- types supplemental table 1 which indicates that dietary ketoa intake at least in part exerts a trpv1- dependent antiobesity effect via enhancement of en- ergy expenditure.effects of ketoa on ucp1 expression in wt and trpv1-ko micea comparison of the expression levels of ucp1 in bat and inguinal wat demonstrated that the dietary intake of ketoa did not induce ucp1 mrna and protein expres- sion in bat of wt and trpv1-ko mice fig.

therefore in this study we investigated the effects of ketoa 10-oxo-12z-octadecenoic acid--a linoleic acid metabolite produced by gut lactic acid bacteria--on whole-body energy metabolism and found that dietary intake of ketoa could enhance energy expenditure in mice thereby protecting mice from diet-induced obesity.

our data indicate that ketoa could stimulate sns by ac- tivation of trpv1 in the gastrointestinal tract and enhance energy expenditure by browning in inguinal wat thereby preventing obesity and related metabolic diseases.materials and methodshya 10-hydroxyoctadecanoic acid 10-hydroxy-11e -octa- decenoic acid ketoa 10-oxo-octadecanoic acid 10-oxo- 11e -octadecenoic acid 9e 11e -octadecadienoic acid 9z11e -octadecadienoic acid 10e 12z-octadecadienoic acid and 10e -octadecenoic acid were produced as pre- viously described 15. unless otherwise indicated all other chemicals used were purchased from sigma-aldrich st. louis mo usa nacalai tesque kyoto japan or wako pure chemicals osaka japan and were guaranteed to be of reagent or tissue culture grade.animalsmale c57bl6 mice and kk-ay mice were purchased from slc hamamatsu japan and clea japan tokyo japan re- spectively.

in addition plasma leptin levels were lower in trpv1-ko mice compared with wt mice fig.

e f  expression levels of genes related to bat functions in bat e  and inguinal wat f  of wt mice or trpv1-ko mice that were treated with ketoa.

5e in wt mice but not in trpv1-ko mice.

moreover image analyses of hematoxylin and eosin-stained adipose tissue demon- strated that ketoa intake decreased adipocyte size infigure 5. effects of dietary intake of ketoa on diet-induced obesity and energy expenditure in wt mice and trpv1-ko mice.

wt mice and trpv1-ko mice were fed control hfd or hfd that contained 0.1 ketoa for 10 wk.

all values are means  sem n  7-9. p  0.05 p  0.01.inguinal wat of wt mice but not trpv1-ko mice fig.

conventionally mice developseveral metabolic alterations in response to an hfd such as weight gain insulin resistance steatosis and systemic and adipose tissue inflammation whereas germ-free mice show minimal weight gain.

for in- stance short-chain fatty acids such as acetate propionate and butyrate have been shown to activate 2 g-protein- coupled receptors gprs gpr41 and gpr43 43 44. activation of these receptors regulates host metabolism in the gastrointestinal tract sns and wat 45. gut lactic acid bacteria can generate various fatty acids including hydroxyl- oxo- conjugated- and partially saturated trans- fatty acids from dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids 15. some of these unique fatty acids are present in higher concentrations in the organs and plasma of specific pathogen-free mice compared with germ-free mice 15 which suggests that gut microbiota is the origin of these unique fatty acids.

