thus these changes detectable through imaging techniques may provide useful markers of muscle impairment in conditions of body mass excess.overweight and obesity are considered to have a loading effect on whole body antigravity muscles so that obese individuals have more muscle mass and higher absolute strength respect to normal- weight individuals 73-77. however the increased body mass observed in obesity largely outbalance the obesity-induced increase in muscle size and the net functional result is a decrease in muscle mass per unit of body mass 74 75 77 which may lead to a detectable motor impairment especially in women who are inherently endowed with a lower amount of skeletal muscle relative to body mass.muscle qualitya more precise biomarker of skeletal muscle intrinsic functionality is considered the capability of strength or tension generation per unit muscle size often referred to as muscle quality.

muscle quality as an adiposity-dependent marker of muscle intrinsic capabilities has been on turn associated with factors linked to both muscle architecture and composition found to be influenced by obesity.muscle architectureskeletal muscle architecture defined as the arrangement of muscle fibres within a muscle relative to the axis of force generation 80 is an important structural property of whole muscles influencing their functional performance.

thus the increased pa observed in obese individuals seems to derive from the obesity- related increase in muscle size in line with a general phenomenology evidenced also in strength-trained athletes 81. an example of changes induced by obesity in muscle architecture is given in figure 1.a common non-invasive imaging technique allegedly considered the present standard for investigating muscle architecture is b-mode ultrasound which is relatively easy to use and permits real time measurement of different muscle architectural features among which are fibre length and pa. however main limitations of the b-mode ultrasound are a the image field of view often too small to capture the entire length of the fibre b the presence of experimental errors such as muscle deformation due to probe pressure and inaccuracy in probe repositioning when measure repetitions are required and c the two-dimensional nature of images obtained in face to the three-dimensional arrangement of muscle fibres.

the technique also referred to as tractography widely employed in the study of brain connectivity has been found to be very accurate for the detection of macroscopic muscle architecture 82. after 3d reconstruction of muscle structure the tractography permits to map the fibres trajectories between the origin and the insertion inside the muscle as it is appreciable in figure 2 and allows the quantification of several architectural parameters including pa 83 84. although requiring expensive instrumentation and costly facilities beside needing a relatively complex post-processing analysis of the images dti-based skeletal muscle fibre tracking seems to be a very promising approach candidate to become the gold standard for the study of markers of muscle architecture.however some caution has to be taken when using dti in obesity since fat-infiltrated muscles have diffusivities that are typically lower than those of healthymuscle 85. williams et al.

in addition they recommend to co-register quantitative fat-water images in order to exclude fat-infiltrated regions of muscle from the analysis.muscle composition intramuscular fat contentdisparate investigations have reported that overweightobesity and body adiposity in general are associated with modifications in skeletal muscle composition due to a different degree of fat infiltration in muscle tissue which leads to reductions in muscle performance 77 79 87. moreover such fat infiltration within muscles has been shown to be linked to an increased risk of diabetes and poor insulin sensitivity 88 89.using muscle tissue attenuation which represents an inverse proxy assessment of lipid infiltration 87 from computed tomography images of lower limb recently lafortuna et al.

yellow broken lines represent superficial upper line and deep lower line aponeurosis solid yellow line represents muscle fascicle orientation the angle of insertion of muscle fascicles on deep aponeurosis pennation angle is indicated as a. the image evidences the muscle architecture difference detected between ob and nw individuals data from 79.figure 2. example of fibre tractography of the gastrocnemius bottom and tibialis anterior top muscle in a human calf reprinted from 82 withpermission.of fibre structure and arrangements.

their results show a significantly negative effect of intramuscular fat content on muscle performance per unit cross-sectional area and confirm the role of muscle composition in the modulation of muscle quality.physical activity is recognized as an integral part of the comprehensive obesity management and should be individually tailored to the specific characteristics of each subject 91. biomarkers of muscular functional impairment may inform about muscle functionality and consequently they are important in the choice of exercise modalities to be undertaken.

j magn reson imaging 385 1292-7 2013bh goodpaster de kelley fl thaete j he and r ross skeletal muscle attenuation determined by computed tomography is associated with skeletal muscle lipid content.

walking or running at moderate velocity the principal limitation is provided by the greater metabolic energy required to move the heavier body or single body segments involved in movements which may ultimately exceed the limits of the individual's aerobic capacity 72.though overweight and obesity have also a role in affecting skeletal muscle attributes such as size architecture and composition in terms of fat infiltration in muscle tissue which have been shown to significantly interfere with mechanical capabilities relative to muscle volume.

this parameter has been estimated taking as reference either total body or single limb fat-free mass an indicator though rather crude of skeletal muscle mass assessed through methods evaluating body or regional composition 73 74 76 or the specific dimension of the investigated muscles such as cross section area or volume determined by imaging techniques 78 79. although conflicting results are reported 76 overall these studies agree in detecting a lower muscle quality in obese compared to their normal-weight counterpart the actual muscle specific functionality of obese persons decreasing with their degree of adiposity.

therefore the measurement of pa represents a quantitative assessment of the divergence of the vector of muscle fibre force production from the vector of whole muscle force production being the total force transmitted to the whole muscle tendon proportional to the cosine of pa i.e.

j appl physiol 1985 891 104-10 2000de kelley bs slasky and j janosky skeletal muscle density effects of obesity and non- insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

j androl 311 75-8 2010ra koza l nikonova j hogan js rim t mendoza c faulk j skaf and lp kozak changes in gene expression foreshadow diet-induced obesity in genetically identical mice.

j biol chem 27950 52361- 5 2004f sun j wang q pan y yu y zhang y wan j wang x li and a hong characterization of function and regulation of mir-24-1 and mir-31.

mexico 3departement de medecine universite de fribourg fribourg suisse switzerlandtable of contentsabstractintroductionclinical biomarkersanthropometric biomarkers of obesityinflammatory biomarkers of obesitygut microbiota as a biomarker of obesityakkermansia a.muciniphilafaecalibacterium f. prausnitziiprevotella p. copribiomarkers of skeletal muscle functioning and physical activity habitsbiomarkers of muscle functional impairment in obesitymuscle qualitymuscle architecturemuscle composition intramuscular fat contentbiomarkers of sedentary behaviours associated to increased risk of obesity and metabolic abnormalitiesbiological impact of sedentary behavioursedentary behaviour as a risk factor for health independent from low physical activitysubjective and objective measure of sedentary behaviourrole of objective measure of physical activity and sedentary behaviour in obesity care and preventionemerging epigenomic biomarkers with potential therapeutic target applicationdna methylationchromatin modificationssmall non-coding rna5.3.2.

