host response and inflammationmicrobial composition predicts genital tract inflammation and persistent bacterial vaginosis in south african adolescent femaleskatie lennardab smritee dabeeac shaun l. barnabasac enock havyarimanaace anna blakneyd shameem z. jaumdallyac gerrit bothaab nonhlanhla n. mkhizei linda-gail bekkerae david a. lewisfghi glenda grayjk nicola mulderabjo-ann s. passmoreacl heather b. jaspanacmnoainstitute of infectious disease and molecular medicine university of cape town cape town south africa bdepartment of integrative biomedical sciences university of cape town cape town south africa cdepartment of pathology university of cape town cape town south africaddepartment of bioengineering university of washington seattle washington usa edesmond tutu hiv centre university of cape town cape town south africa fwestern sydney sexual health centre parramatta australiagmarie bashir institute for infectious diseases and biosecurity university of sydney sydney australiahsydney medical school--westmead university of sydney sydney australiainational institute for communicable diseases sandringham johannesburg south africa jperinatal hiv research unit university of the witwatersrand johannesburg south africa ksouth african medical research council cape town south africalnational health laboratory service johannesburg south africamseattle children's research institute seattle washington usandepartment of pediatrics university of washington seattle washington usaodepartment of global health university of washington seattle washington usaabstract young african females are at an increased risk of hiv acquisition and genital inflammation or the vaginal microbiome may contribute to this risk.

apart from sociobe- havioral factors genital inflammation is a major factor associated with these outcomes  and women with genital inflammation have a 3-fold-higher risk of later human immunodeficiency virus hiv acquisition.

dmpa was the only hc associated with significantly higher rates of genital inflammation than male condom usage only adjusted p value of 0.006. the presence of any sti bmi geographic location and ethnicity did not significantly influence genital inflammation .

we identify several novel taxa associated with genital inflammation and demonstrate that women with nugent scores of 9 and high levels of bvab1 are more likely to have persistent bv and high levels of genital inflammation which may place them at an increased risk of hiv infection.

furthermore our c1 was more strongly predictive of inflammation than was their inflammatory prevotella-mixed cervicotype .in a multivariate logistic regression including all factors a priori considered to be potentially associated with inflammation geographical location hormonal contracep- tive usage sti any microbiota subtype ethnicity and bmi both vaginal microbiota composition adjusted or aor 23 95 ci 7 to 83 and any hc use aor 14 95 ci3 to 73 were significantly associated with vaginal inflammation.

chlamydia by itself was also not significantly associated with inflammation in this cohort p  0.9 while microbiota subtype and hc use were.bacterial taxa associated with genital inflammation.

c2 and c3table 1 odds ratios for predicting high versus low inflammation using various microbiome subtyping methods showing the distribution of these factors by inflammation categoryanan not a number inf infinite since 0 inflammation-l cases were of the f3 type.were made up of predominantly lactobacillus crispatus and lactobacillus iners respec- tively.

we propose that women with this bvab1-dominated subtype may have chronic genital inflam- mation due to persistent bv which may place them at a particularly high risk for hiv infection.keywords 16s rna hiv susceptibility hiv target cells female genital tract microbiome inflammation vaginal microbiomedolescent females and young women particularly in sub-saharan africa are at an extreme risk for adverse sexual and reproductive outcomes.

that lacked a consistent dominant species but communities all included prevotella female genital tract fgt 16s rrna gene sequencing-based microbiome subtype that was more strongly associated with genital inflammation than were other common stis or classic bv status by nugent scoring or amsel criteria .

s3 suggesting that the mechanisms by which microbiota increase hiv susceptibility may be related to epithelial barrier integrity rather than hiv target cell availability.discussionin young south african women the genital microbiota is an important predictor of genital inflammation.

in addition to genital microbiota hc usage was associated with high genital inflammation.

furthermore using community functional inference we identify bvab1 as a likely contributor to bv persistence.of all the potential factors considered to be associated with increased concentra- tions of inflammatory cytokines in the lower genital tract in young women the microbiota subtype was the strongest predictor of inflammation with hc use being the only other independently predictive factor in a multivariate analysis.

purified libraries consisting of 96 pooled samples were paired-end sequenced on anillumina miseq platform 300-bp paired-end reads with v3 chemistry.following demultiplexing raw reads were preprocessed as follows forward and reverse reads were merged by using usearch7  allowing a maximum of three mismatches merged reads were quality filtered by using usearch7 reads with e scores of 0.1 were discarded primer sequences were removed by using a custom python script and merged filtered reads were truncated at 250 bp.

two unique clusters emerged as judged by the average silhouette width for partitioning around medoids pam clustering with 62 n  173 and 38 n  107 of women being classified as having either high inflammation inflammation-h or low inflammation inflammation-l fig.

the lh levels were significantly lower in c1 4.9 iuliter than in c2 8.7 iuliter p  0.02 and c3 9.3 iuliter p  0.02 and were also significantly lower in f3 4.9 iuliter and f2 5.8 iuliter than in f1 9.8 iuliter p  0.01 and p  0.04 respectively but did not differ by inflammation status.progesterone levels were significantly higher in c2 than in c3 median 12 nmolliterversus 1.25 nmolliter p  0.02 but did not differ by microbiome functional subtype or inflammation status.specific host immunological factors are associated with microbiota subtypes.

