specific symbols indicate significant differences between two groups using the unpaired two-tailed student t test  p  0.05 hfd versus ncd  p  0.05 ncd-pe versus ncd d p  0.05 hfd-pe versus hfd  p  0.05 hfd-tp versus hfd  p  0.05 hfd-caf versus hfd  p  0.05. the data are expressed as the means - sem n  8 to 10. data with different lowercase letters are significantly different p  0.05 according to the post hoc one-way anova statistical analysis.effects of peac administration on glucose metabolism.

we also observed that pe tp otp and caf drastically altered the gut microbial community structure and specific gut bacteria in the hfd-fed mice and improved the hfd-induced gut microbiota imbalance.

.sokol h pigneur b watterlot l lakhdari o bermudez-humaran lg grata- doux jj blugeon s bridonneau c furet jp corthier g grangette c vasquez n pochart p trugnan g thomas g blottiere hm dore j marteau p seksik p langella p. 2008. faecalibacterium prausnitzii is an anti-inflammatory commensal bacterium identified by gut microbiota analysis of crohn dis- ease patients.

in summary polyphenol- and caf-rich pe improved diet-induced ms and this effect was associ- ated with a remodeling of the gut microbiota.keywords metabolic syndrome gut microbiota akkermansia muciniphila metabolic endotoxemia fat browning inflammatory responsesumanity is facing an epidemic of metabolic syndrome ms which is characterized by a cluster of metabolic disorders including obesity insulin ins resistance dyslipidemia dysglycemia hepatic steatosis and nonoptimal blood pressure levels  .

altogether the hfd triggered an inflammatory response and compromised the gut barrier function however administration of pe tp otp and caf repaired the disrupted intestinal homeostasis to different extents.peac administration restored the hfd-induced gut microbial community struc- tural shift.

the significant changes in firmicutes and firmicutesbacteroidetes further confirmed that pe tp otp and caf administration caused a drastic shift in the hfd-fed mouse gut microbial community structure and .compared to the hfd group the pe and tp treatments increased the abundance of the eubacterium rectaleclostridium coccoides group f. prausnitzii a. muciniphila bifi- dobacterium spp.

asterisks indicate a significant difference between two groups using the unpaired two-tailed student t test  p  0.05  p  0.01.systemic immune factors and the microbial content in the gut.

asterisks indicate a significant difference between two groups using the unpaired two-tailed student t test  p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001.the mucin 2 muc2-rich mucus layer is the first host defense barrier that noxious luminal agents contact in the intestine.

asterisks indicate a significant difference between two groups using the unpaired two-tailed student t test  p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001.band 51-2 in and band 66 in were the strongest biomarkers.

the color at each intersection indicates the value of the r coefficient asterisks indicate a significant correlation between these two parameters  p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001. shl indicates the hdl-cldl-c value in the serum stg indicates the tg content in the serum l-tg indicates the tg content in the liver etnfcx indicates tnf-cx expressed in the epididymal fat pad iucp1 indicates ucp1 expressed in the inguinal fat pad and other indexes.

asterisks indicate a significant difference between two groups using the unpaired two-tailed student t test  p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001.suppresses appetite and nutrient absorption in mice  inhibits obesity ms and fatty liver disease in hfd-fed mice  improves endothelial function and ins sensitivity in spontaneously hypertensive rats  reduces the levels of inflammatory cytokines and improves liver abnormalities in mice with high-fatwestern-style diet-induced obesity and ms .

.wu j bostrom p sparks lm ye l choi jh giang ah khandekar m virtanen ka nuutila p schaart g huang k tu h van marken lichtenbelt wd hoeks j enerback s schrauwen p spiegelman bm.

importantly the biplot analysis results also showed thatfig 6 effects of peac on the hfd-induced gut microbial community structure and selected specific gut bacteria.

although many studies have reported the effects of caffeinated beverages on the gut microbiota no studies have focused on the influence of caf on the gut microbiota which may be due to the rapid and complete absorption and degradation of caf in the upper gastrointestinal tract.

muciniphila plays a crucial role in the interaction between the gut microbiota and the host controlling the gut barrier function and other physiological and homeostatic functions .

