thealpha diversity microbiota diversity within an individual site or samplediversity one value per sample.beta diversity intervariability diversity between separate samples.pcr biasunequal amounts of amplification across dna sequences that leads to a skewed distribution of pcr products.metatranscriptomicsthe study of rna copies of the collective microbial genes in a community or sample.assemblythe process in which short dna fragments are aligned and merged to form longer dna fragments.contigscontiguous dna sequences assembled from shorter overlapping sequencing reads.annotationassigning functions or functional categories to gene or protein.phred quality scoresa measure of the quality of base calling in a sequenced strand of dna.can be determined from shotgun sequencing data analy- sis by comparison with previously annotated genes thereby offering data that is similar to compositional information derived from 16s rrna gene sequencing although this process is reliant on the completion and accuracy of databases.

here we use the term microbiota to refer to the collection of microorganisms in a specified location or sample microbiome to refer to their collective coding cap- acity and metagenome to refer to the experimentallynature reviews  gastroenterology  hepatologyvolume 14  october 2017  585reviews bioinformaticsthe use of computer science statistics and mathematics to analyse and interpret biological processes and molecular components.phylogenetics evolutionary relationships between organisms genes or proteins.metagenomethe collective microbial genomes and genes in an environment or sample.shotgun sequencingall extracted dna is randomly sheered into desired fragment sizes for high-throughput sequencing as opposedto targeting a specific marker gene.amplicona target gene or sequence that is amplified naturally or artificially.copy numberthe number of copies of a particular section of dna some organisms have multiple copies of a targeted gene.taxaa population of phylogenetically related organisms.16s ribosomal rna gene a gene located in the 30s subunit of a prokaryotic ribosome which contains nine variable regions that can be targeted for amplification and used for microbial taxonomic profiling of a sample.18s ribosomal rna gene a gene located in the 40s ribosomal subunit found ineukaryotic cells targeted in the analysis of fungal communities.determined dataset from shotgun sequencing the genomes of microorganisms in a particular sample.

open-reference clustering combines both de novo and closed reference methods in which any reads discarded during closed reference are subjected to de novo clustering leading to some perfor-gene callingidentifying coding regions in a sequence of dna.orthologuesgenes in different species derived from a common ancestral gene following speciation which usually retain the same function.pipelinesa series of tools or scripts optimized for the analysis ofa dataset in which the outputs of one step are the inputsfor next step.barcode sequencea short series of dna bases attached to sequence reads each unique to a sample to enable differentiation after sequencing.operational taxonomic unitsa collection cluster of sequences that are often at least 97 similar to each other and used to classify closely related individuals.reference databasea collection of known information for example gene sequences or functions constructed in a formatfor querying orsimilarity-based searches.chimeric sequences artefacts from the pcr process in which an amplified sequence is composed of dna from two or more parents.genes within the assembled contigs are then identifiedwhich is a prerequisite for deducing the functional poten- tial annotation of a microbiome.

one comparison of older andnewer clustering methods found the newer methods superior to the more traditional methods87.another important step in the analysis of marker gene sequences is the removal of chimeric sequences a known artefact of pcr amplification in which hybrid sequences are produced from unrelated parent sequences.

the graph is constructed using k-mer overlaps leading to an assembled sequence.scaffoldsthe product of aligning and merging contigs to form longer continuous dna sequences.binninggrouping dna sequences based on particular attributes such as gc content or similarity with other genes.k-mershort dna sequence with fixed length k.homologyshared ancestry or degree of relationship between sequences or genes.are limited by the quality and availability of reference genomes and rely on previously characterized species.

thus the young field of microbiome research is still in a phase of investigat- ing the earliest examples and the growing number of pathophysiologies with a microbiome connection.regardless of whether the altered microbiome isa cause or consequence of disease or more likely an environmental risk factor or disease modulator it is becoming clear that the microbiome provides biomarkers that could be tested for risk or presence of disease.

bioinformatics 27 127-129 2011.stark m. berger s. a. stamatakis a. von mering c. mltreemap--accurate maximum likelihood placement of environmental dna sequences into taxonomic and functional reference phylogenies.

however for initial stud- ies of the gut microbiota this type of analysis is very powerful and offers important information on both microbial diversity and composition.the marker gene most commonly used in pro- karyotes is the ubiquitous 16s ribosomal rna rrna gene which consists of nine variable regions each flanked by highly conserved dna that provides ideal primer sites for amplification12.

notes 9 365 2016.hart m. l. meyer a. johnson p. j.  ericsson a. c. comparative evaluation of dna extraction methods from feces of multiple host species for downstream next-generation sequencing.

the impact of different dna extraction kits and laboratories upon the assessment of human gut microbiota composition by 16s rrna gene sequencing.

taxonomic classification requires a refer- ence database of previously classified sequences such as silva91 16s and 18s rrna genes greengenes92 16s rrna gene ribosomal database project93 16s rrna gene and unite94 its region.

rep. 5 9743 2015.weisman d. yasuda m.  bowen j. l. funframe functional gene ecological analysis pipeline.bioinformatics 29 1212-1214 2013.acknowledgementsthis work was supported by science foundation ireland through a centre award to the apc microbiome institute sfi12rc2273.author contributionsall authors contributed equally to this work.competing interests statementthe authors declare no competing interests.publisher's notespringer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.nature reviews  gastroenterology  hepatologyvolume 14  october 2017  595erratuma clinician's guide to microbiome analysismarcus j. claesson adam g. clooney  paul w. o'toolenature reviews gastroenterology  hepatology 2017in the version of this review initially published online the article should have indicated that marcus j. claesson and adam g. clooney contributed equally to this work.

rep. 6 19233 2016.zhu w. lomsadze a.  borodovsky m. ab initio gene identification in metagenomic sequences.

10 359 2009.kelley d. r. liu b. delcher a. l. pop m. salzberg s. l. gene prediction with glimmer for metagenomic sequences augmented by classification and clustering.

81 1573-1584 2015.soergel d. a. dey n. knight r.  brenner s. e. selection of primers for optimal taxonomic classification of environmental 16s rrna gene sequences.

