alterations to the gut microbiota in patients with kidney disease are due to a combination of factors including concomitant use of numerous medications frequent antibiotic use changes in intestinal ph and intestinal barrier dysfunction 132739. these factors may lead to an increase in intestinal bacteria that produce uremic toxins 1240. for example bacteria that produce precursors to indoxyl sulfate and p-cresol sulfate are increased in patients with advanced kidney disease 40 and animal models of kidney disease 41.uremic toxins in the gastrointestinal tract may engender inflammation and promote a leakyprokopienko and nolinpage 4gut 42. dysbiosis also contributes to impairment of the gut epithelial barrier which facilitates greater absorption of microbial toxins increased serum endotoxin concentrations and bacterial translocation 1143. in fact increased microbial toxin production and absorption is associated with nearly half of the most highly accumulated uremic toxins 44. constipation may also worsen uremia and increase the risk of adverse renal outcomes 45. overall the altered gut microbiota observed in kidney disease produces more microbial toxins that accumulate become constituents of the uremic milieu and are readily available at high concentrations to interact with drug metabolizing enzymes and transporters.considerations for interpreting microbiota-derived uremic toxin studiescaution is warranted when interpreting studies involving microbiota-derived uremic toxins due to frequent discrepancies between concentrations and conformations of toxins observed clinically and those used experimentally.

determination of individual and combined effects of microbiota-derived toxins on hepatic enzymes responsible for xenobiotic and endobiotic metabolism is therefore critical.cyp3a45microbiota-derived uremic toxins may affect the activity and expression of cyp3a4 a critically important isozyme that contributes to the metabolism of approximately 40 of marketed drugs 51. p-cresol is a potent competitive inhibitor of cyp3a4 and perpetrates a60 decrease in human microsomal activity 46. hippuric acid indoxyl sulfate cmpf and p-cresol all individually inhibit cyp3a4 mediated metabolism of testosterone in human microsomes 47. additionally a combination of hippuric acid cmpf indoxyl sulfate and indole-3-acetic acid also perpetrate a significant decrease of cyp3a4 mrna expression 53. indoxyl sulfate also inhibits cyp3a4 activity in human hepatocytes and microsomes animal models and potentially in kidney disease patients 54-56. indoxyl sulfate plasma concentrations are inversely related to cyp3a4 activity measured by endogenous 4b- hydroxycholesterol formation in stable renal transplant patients 57. conversely some reports suggest that indoxyl sulfate or other microbial toxins have no interactions with cyp3a4 activity or expression 5358. the reason for discordant findings between studies is unclear but might be due to differences in experimental procedures.

resveratrol quercetin and meclofenamate may protect the kidneys from indoxyl sulfate induced oxidative damage stemming from downregulation oat1 and oat3 renal transporter expression 7980. in fact sult inhibitors decreased hepatic formation of indoxyl sulfate in an animal model of acute kidney injury thereby lowering oxidative stress and restoring oat1 and oat3 expression 79. also statins may counteract microbial toxin induced downregulation of oatp4c1 in the kidney and thereby enhance subsequent secretion of uremic toxins into theprokopienko and nolinpage 11urine 83. increasing the tubular secretion of microbiota-derived toxins might be an effective strategy to decrease systemic concentrations in kidney disease patients.dialytic clearanceincreased elimination by various dialytic modalities is an important therapeutic option.

disturbed microbial composition or maladaptation of microbial communities to the diseased environment also known as dysbiosis is partially mediated by microbial toxins and influences gut microbiota-host interactions 1213. microbiota-derived uremic toxins interact with several nonrenal clearance pathways thereby potentially modifying drug dosing-exposure-response relationships in patients with kidney disease 14- 17. in fact alterations in the functional expression of drug metabolizing enzymes and transporters in kidney disease are well documented 18-21 and several microbial toxins are potential mediators 2223. the uremic milieu is complicated containing thousands of compounds including numerous endogenous solutes e.g.

a combination of pre- and probiotics has been evaluated for use in decreasing systemic exposure to p-cresol sulfate and indoxyl sulfate in kidney disease patients 97. after controlling for oral antibiotics significant decreases in p-cresol sulfate and indoxyl sulfate were observed.

indoxyl sulfate cmpf and hippuric acid also have inhibitory effects on oat1 and oat3 activity 78-80. in rat kidney slices hippuric acid and indoxyl sulfate in combination and independently decrease oat1 and oat3 uptake of morinidazole-metabolites 81. also cmpf indoxyl sulfate hippuric acid and indole-3-acetic acid each independently decrease oat1 and oat3 uptake of morinidazole-metabolites in hek293 cells 81.kidney breast cancer resistant protein bcrp multidrug resistance protein 4 mrp4 and organic anion transporting polypeptides oatp4c1bcrp and mrp4 are important kidney efflux transporters located on the apical membrane of the proximal tubule epithelial cell.

microbiota-derived toxins byproducts of the metabolism of dietary nutrients by gut microbiota are implicated in multiple diseases including kidney disease 4 cardiovascular disease 5-7 cancer 8 neurological diseases 9 and inflammatory states 10. several microbiota-derived uremic toxins such as indoxyl sulfate p-cresol sulfate hippuric acid 3-carboxy-4-methyl-5-propyl-2-furanpropanoic acid cmpf and indole-3-acetic acid have been shown to accumulate extensively in kidney disease patients likely due to increased toxin producing bacterial species and simultaneously decreased renal clearance figure 1 11. however they may represent only the tip of the iceberg as many more microbial toxins likely circulate in humans.microbial imbalance i.e.

the highest clinically observed total concentrations of microbial toxins in kidney disease patients range from 3.7-fold indole-3-acetic acid to 83-fold indoxyl sulfate higher than in patients with normal kidney function table 3.moreover many microbial toxins are extensively protein bound and since only unbound toxins elicit biological activity andor undergo transport into cells interpretation of data based on unbound versus total free and bound concentrations may lead to different conclusions.

indoxyl sulfate p-cresol sulfate hippuric acid indole-3-acetic acid and cmpf are important microbial toxins that warrant increased attention in clinical and translational research 105. in addition future systematic studies of the impact of individual and combined microbial toxins on drug metabolism and transport are needed because large interindividual variability in clinically observed microbial toxin concentrations may explain some differences in drug-related adverse events and efficacy.

indole-3-acetic acid decreases cyp1a2 activity by 50 in human microsomes 60. a combination of hippuric acid indoxyl sulfate and p-cresol also inhibit cyp1a2 activity in human microsomes 46. however contradictory findings have been reported as indole-3-acetic acid and indoxyl sulfate individually have been shown to increase mrna expression and enzyme activity of cyp1a2 5859. although reasons for the disparate findings are unclear it likely involves the ahr nuclear receptor -- a master regulator that activates cyp1a gene expression.indoxyl sulfate is both a potent activating ligand of ahr that leads to increased expression of cyp1a2 and a direct inhibitor of cyp1a2 activity 5859. because of this investigators should consider incubations that are long enough in duration to induce expression when assessing the effect of indoxyl sulfate on cyp1a2.

cmpf by 37 in bovine and 21 in rat enzymes and indoxyl sulfate by 27 in bovine enzymes decrease gst enzyme activity which suggests that cmpf may be the most potent inhibitor of gst enzymes 65. the activities of ugt1a1 ugt1a9 and ugt2b7 are decreased by 50 in human microsomes incubated with a combination of hippuric acid indoxyl sulfate and p-cresol toxins as well as p-cresol alone at clinically observed concentrations suggesting that p-cresol is mediating the effect 46. p- cresol p-cresol sulfate kynurenic acid indole-3-acetic acid indoxyl sulfate and hippuric acid also can significantly decrease ugt activity in human renal proximal tubule cells 66 with p-cresol being the most potent competitive inhibitor.

the biotransformation of indoxyl sulfate requires cyp2e1 and sult1a1 hepatic enzymes and demonstrates the importance of these pathways in microbiota-derived uremic toxin formation figure 2.formation of p-cresol sulfate and indoxyl sulfate is decreased in chronic kidney disease patients and animal models with advanced liver cirrhosis and thus impaired hepatic metabolism 28. cirrhotic patients also exhibit higher serum concentrations of metabolic precursors like phenol and indole suggesting decreased metabolic conjugation 2930. the role of hepatic metabolism in biotransformation of some microbiota-derived uremic toxins indicates a potential for competitive interactions with both phase i and ii metabolic pathways.the gut microbiota regulates hepatic phase i and ii metabolizing enzyme and transporter expression 3132 therefore alterations of gut microbiota constituents might also affect these processes 3133. experimental models investigating the effects of the gut microbiota on drug metabolism and transport include un-colonized or germ-free animals.

this represents a potential shift for clinical pharmacology from strictly bactericidal antibiotic therapies to innovative and novel microbiota-centered therapeutic strategies.key issuesthere are known alterations to hepatic drug metabolism and transport pathways in patients with kidney disease that place this population at increased risk of drug-related adverse events.prokopienko and nolinpage 13microbial imbalances known as dysbiosis in kidney disease potentially increases the production and the absorption of microbiota-derived uremic toxins.microbiota-derived uremic toxins accumulate in advancing stages of kidney disease and directly affect phase i and ii drug metabolizing enzymes and drug transport pathways.microbiota-derived uremic toxin research in kidney disease patients presents unique opportunities for clinical pharmacologists.

since these metabolites may be ligands for nuclear receptors this could lead to altered hepatic gene expression 37. collectively the evidence suggests that the gut microbiota interacts with hepatic enzymes which might link dysbiosis in kidney disease to altered nonrenal clearance.dysbiosis in kidney diseasedysbiosis in kidney disease influences microbial toxin production and absorption.

a combination of hippuric acid indoxyl sulfate and p-cresol decreases cyp2e1 human microsomal activity by50 46. at clinically relevant concentrations p-cresol individually inhibits cyp2e1 activity by 60 in human microsomes whereas hippuric acid and indoxyl sulfate had no individual effect 46. this finding suggests that the microbial toxin precursor p-cresol inhibits cyp2e1 activity and other microbial toxins may only have a combined effect on this enzyme system.in summary current evidence suggests that microbiota-derived uremic toxins interact most extensively with cyp3a4 and cyp1a2.

