the reason why there is no such report may be that the microbiota was not examined in this respect to see whether it has any coloniza- tion of bacteria breaking down cellulase and this remains a significant research topic.currently in uncontrollable obesity cases bariatric surgery obese people with bmi of at least 40 or people with bmi 35 with other serious coexisting medical conditions is performed by reducing the size of stomach via the removal of a portion of it or bypassing a portion of the intestine .

this weight loss may be resulting from insufficient nutrition as patients undergoing bariatric surgery are given only a spoonful of broth a day until their stomach recovers.

weight loss after bariatric surgery may be due to the reduced size of the stomach or the changing concentrations of gut-derived peptides .

when this portion is removed with bariatric surgery the patients lose weight because of loss of appetite and a reduced desire for food intake .

in some cases of bariatric surgery weight loss stops at a certain point and there are also cases in which obesity mani- fests itself again.

another possibility is the addition of the cellulase enzyme- producing bacteria to the microbial combination of the micro- biota and the resulting production of glucose from cellulose that is the development of obesity due to the increased energy sources through this biochemical pathway .maybe the most critical question to be asked here is wheth- er bariatric surgery the roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb and the sleeve gastrectomy have any reported hazardous ef- fects on health.

if the patient undergoing an obesity operation is in the development period the release of the growth hormone will be reduced resulting in shorter stature note an extensive literature review has not shown any report of bariatric surgery in an individual in ado- lescence.

all in all possible physiological and biochemical effects of other gut-derived peptides like those of ghrelin mentioned above should be considered before performing bariatric surgery the roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb and the sleeve gastrectomy lest the organism is harmed by this operation.consequently they should be considered a last resort alter- native to get rid of obesity.

new obesity classification criteria as a tool for bariatric surgery indication.

gastrointestinal hormones intestinal microbiota and metabolic homeostasis in obese patients effect of bariatric surgery.

the effect of bariatric surgery on gastrointestinal and pancreatic peptide hormones.

20167728-37.pizzorno l. bariatric surgery bad to the bone part 2. integr med encinitas.

therefore after bariatric sur- gery weight loss is possible because of limited food intake as in other cases of dietary restriction.

it is possible that gut-derived peptides whose concentrations changed with bariatric sur- gery are re-oriented sometime after the operation and mediate the development of obesity by shifting the energy balance in the positive direction and activating the weight gain tendency already present in the genetics of the individual  .

in answer to this question it should be noted that although this type of surgery performed since 1970salters the concentrations of gut-derived peptides  current- ly there is no any report suggesting that it has a negative influence except for causing ongoing accelerated bone loss  on human life.

