how do age sex duration and intensity of exercise influence its effects on the microbiota is there an optimum balance where exercise ex- erts maximum benefits on human physiology without creating detrimental effects on gut barrier are dietary components used differently by the gut microbiota of active and sedentary indi- viduals these questions and others may be the next frontier in microbiota research.4tiffany weirdepartment of food science and human nutrition college of health and human sciencescolorado state university fort collins coreferencesbackhed f manchester jk semenkovich cf gordon ji.

if so this would have broad implications for sports nutrition and create markets for supplements to modify the microbiota for improved athletic performance.research on the relation between exercise and the microbiota is still in its infancy.

in general exercise seems to beneficially impact the gut microbiota al- though relevance of these studies to human populations is diffi- cult to ascertain.

another study in overweight men showed that high protein consumption and carbohydrate restriction reduced the production of benefi- cial short-chain fatty acids and increased the generation of car- cinogenic nitrogen-containing compounds 6. this raises the provocative idea that specific dietary components affect micro- bial metabolism differently in active and sedentary individuals.authors for this section are recruited by commentary editor russell r. pate ph.d. facsm department of exercise science university of south carolina columbia sc 29208 e-mail .0091-633145014-5exercise and sport sciences reviews doi 10.1249jes.0000000000000097copyright c 2016 by the american college of sports medicinein the conceptual model they present campbell and wisniewski 2 suggest exercise may exert unique effects on the microbiota independent of diet possibly via reduction of inflammation in the gut.

2016 2017 45141-47.cerda b perez m perez-santiago jd tornero-aguilera jf gonzalez-soltero r larrosa m. gut microbiota modification another piece in the puzzle of the benefits of physical exercise in health front physiol.

exercise the next frontier in microbiota researchit is generally accepted that the trillions of organisms residing in our intestines their metabolic products and effects on intes- tinal health are important modulators of chronic disease.

as such there is an increasing push to understand how lifestyle and other factors can be used to manipulate the microbiota for improved health outcomes.

a major challenge in determining the effects of exercise on human microbiota is uncoupling the effects of physical activity from dietary differences.

exercise-induced stress reduction can influence the microbiota via the hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal axis.

the existence of a muscle-microbiota axis also has been hypothesized and is supported by studies in germ- free rats showing increased expression of 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase pampk and ampk-independent fasting-inducible adipose factor which regulate glucose uptake and lipid oxidation in muscle 1. other mechanisms mediating exercise-microbiota interac- tions including regulation of bile acids and immune modula- tion have recently been reviewed 3. determining whether exercise modulates the microbiota via these mechanisms in human populations and its relevance in the context of dis- ease prevention is a critical step in optimizing lifestyle for im- proved intestinal health.campbell and wisniewki 2 also discuss the exciting possi-bility that microbiota-exercise interactions are bidirectional and that an optimal microbial makeup could enhance exercise performance.

effect of intestinal microbiota on exercise per- formance in mice.

two important modifiable fac- tors that potentially have significant impact on the gut microbi- ota are diet and exercise.

they propose several mechanisms supported by current literature by which exercise-microbiota interactions may influence host physiology.evidence from animal studies supports exercise as an impor-tant factor modulating gut microbial communities.

in particular the elite athletes consumed higher levels of protein which may have been re- sponsible for the observed effects on the gut.

although reduction of intestinal inflammation may play a role in microbial modulation in moderate exercise intense exercise has well-studied negative effects on gut barrier function suggesting that beneficial mi- crobial profiles reported in elite athletes may be modulated by other mechanisms.

