feeding the cm  6 or 9 aa diets yielded the highest digestibil- ity values of arg his lys met phe cys and gly on d 35 while ser digestibility was highest in the sbm ad libitum treatment p  0.05. the magnitude of thetable 5. apparent ileal digestibility of dry matter dm energy crude protein cp and amino acids of broiler chickens fed high cold-pressed canola meal diets with elevated amino acid levels compared to soybean meal diet.11sbm soybean meal diet sbm-paired soybean meal diet pair-fed to canola meal diet with normal amino acid cm canola meal diet cm   aa 3 6 and 9 canola meal diets supplemented with 3 6 or 9 extra amino acid compared to ross 308 guideline.2taa total amino acid digestibility.a-cmeans in a row not sharing a superscript differ significantly tukey test p  0.05.extra amino acids in high canola meal diets1275table 6. serum biochemical parameters of broiler chickens fed high cold-pressed canola meal diet with elevated amino acid levels compared to soybean meal diet.11sbm soybean meal diet sbm-paired soybean meal diet pair-fed to canola meal diet with normal amino acid cm canola meal diet cm   aa 3 6 and 9 canola meal diets supplemented with 3 6 or 9 extra amino acid compared to ross 308 guideline.2data are means of 6 replicate pens with 3 serum samples per pen.a-bmeans in a row not sharing a superscript differ significantly tukey test p  0.05.table 7. bacterial composition log10 copy numbers g-1 in cecal content of broiler chickens fed high cold-pressed canola meal diet with elevated amino acid levels compared to soybean meal diet.1treatmentsstatistics1sbm soybean meal diet sbm-paired soybean meal diet pair-fed to canola meal diet with normal amino acid cm canola meal diet cm   aa 3 6 and 9 canola meal diets supplemented with 3 6 or 9 extra amino acid compared to ross 308 guideline.2data are means of 6 replicate pens with 3 ceca samples per pen.increases in protein digestibility values in birds fed the cm diets with 9 additional aa compared to sbm ad libitum fed birds were 3.7 and 1.9 percentage units at d 24 and 35 respectively.serum biochemical metabolites and cecal microbiota compositionthe effects of experimental treatments on serum pa- rameters are shown in table .

as intended sbm pair-fed birds consumed the same amount of feed as the cm fed birds and gained the same weight with statistically similar fcr compared to the birds fed cm diet with normal aa p  0.05. birds consum- ing the sbm diet ad libitum had the highest feed intake weight gain and fcr relative to all the otherextra amino acids in high canola meal diets1273table 3. performance parameters and body weight uniformity of broiler chickens fed high cold-pressed canola meal diet with elevated amino acid levels compared to soybean meal diet.1treatments2statistics1sbm soybean meal diet sbm-paired soybean meal diet pair-fed to canola meal diet with normal amino acid cm canola meal diet cm   aa 3 6 and 9 canola meal diets supplemented with 3 6 or 9 extra amino acid compared to ross 308 guideline.2data are means of 6 replicate pens with 17 broilers per pen.a-cmeans in a row not sharing a superscript differ significantly tukey test p  0.05.table 4. carcass traits g 100 g-1 live weight of broiler chickens fed high cold-pressed canola meal diet with elevated amino acid levels compared to soybean meal diet.11sbm soybean meal diet sbm-paired soybean meal diet pair-fed to canola meal diet with normal amino acid cm canola meal diet cm   aa 3 6 and 9 canola meal diets supplemented with 3 6 or 9 extra amino acid compared to ross 308 guideline.2data are means of 6 replicate pens with 3 slaughtered broilers per pen.a-cmeans in a row not sharing a superscript differ significantly tukey test p  0.05.treatments p  0.01. higher aa in cm diet had no significant impact on feed intake compared to cm diet with normal aa p  0.05. over the finisher 24 to 35 d and entire experimental 10 to 35 d pe- riods additional 9 aa in cm diets improved fcr p  0.01 compared to sbm and cm diet with nor- mal aa.

the content of thetable 1. ingredient and calculated nutrient composition of the experimental diets.11sbm soybean meal diet cm canola meal diet cm   aa 3 6 and 9 canola meal diets supplemented with 3 6 or 9 extra amino acid compared to ross 308 guideline.2percent as-is basis unless stated otherwise.3dicalcium phosphate contained phosphorus 18 calcium 21.4mineral and vitamin premix supplied activity per ton of feed cu sulphate 8 g fe sulphate 60 g i iodide 1.0 g se selenate 0.3 g mn manganese 80 g zn sulphate and oxide 60 g mo molybdenum 1 g cobalt co 0.3 g vitamin a retinol 12 miu vitamin d3 cholecalciferol 3.5 miu vitamin e tocopherol acetate 40 g vitamin k3 menadione 2 g thiamine vitamin b1 2 g riboflavin b2 6 g niacin b3 50 g pantothenic acid b5 11 g pyridoxine hydrochloride b6 5 g folate vitamin b9 1.5 g biotin vitamin h 100 mg cyanocobalamin vitamin b12 20 mg antioxidant 25 g.5glucosinoates.6not applicable.7dietary electrolyte balance.8dig digestible.extra amino acids in high canola meal diets1271ceca from each pen on d 24 also was pooled and sub- sampled into eppendorf tubes and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen for determination of bacterial population by real-time quantitative pcr.

the analyzed crude fat was similar across sbm and cm diets for each period but the crude fiber ndf and adf contents of cm diets were higher by an average of 57.8 73.7 and 78.8 re- spectively than in sbm diets across grower and finisher diets.

addition of 6 and 9 extra aa to cm diets resulted in a further decrease in abdominal fat and simultane- ously increased relative carcass p  0.01 and breast meat yield p  0.05 compared to birds fed both sbm diets.dry matter energy crude protein and amino acid digestibilitytable summarizes the impact of the experimen- tal diets on nutrient digestibility on d 24 and 35. the dietary treatments did not have any significant effect on digestibility of dm and energy at either age exam- ined p  0.05. the 9 aa in cm diets significantly p  0.05 increased crude protein digestibility on d 24 compared to all the other treatments except cm  6 aa.

five experimen- tal wheat-based diets were formulated as follows soy- bean meal sbm diet high cm diet with normal aa concentration and high cm diets with 3 6 or 9 additional aa concentration lys metcys thr ile arg and val.

thus high inclu- sion of cm in the diet may influence microbiota profile of the gut through alterations to the flow of unabsorbed nutrients in the git although the implications of these changes have not been reported in the literature.therefore in view of the dearth of data the objec- tives of this study were to determine if reduced feed intake of birds fed high cm diets per se accounts for growth depression and whether this lower growth rate can be attenuated by increasing dietary digestible amino acid levels and to evaluate the effect of experi- mental diets on nutrient digestibility carcass traits ce- cal microbiota composition and serum metabolites.materials and methodsfeed ingredientscold-pressed canola meal was obtained from coota- mundra oilseeds in new south wales australia.

1996. the partial replacement of soybean meal with canola meal in broiler diets.

2001. effects of enzyme supplementation on the replacement value of canola meal for soybean meal in broiler diets.

1987. the replacement value of canola meal for soybean meal in poultry diets.

this growth depression could par- tially be ameliorated by increasing dietary aa levels.key words broiler chicken canola meal pair-feeding amino acid digestibility ceca microbiota2017 poultry science 961268-1279 introductioncanola meal cm has long been used in poultry feed to partially replace soybean meal sbm as an eco- nomically viable alternative.

ho- mogenous samples of raw materials wheat cold- pressed canola meal soybean meal and meat and bone meal were analyzed for crude protein crude fiber crude fat crude ash phosphorus and amino acid con- tents using the evonik's amino-nir in singapore supplemental table s1.

the additional 6 and 9 aa in cm diets increased digestibility of crude protein and some aa p  0.05. sbm ad libitum and cm  6 and 9 aa fed birds had the highest and lowest relative weight of abdominal fat respectively p  0.05. addition of 6 and 9 aa in cm diets increased relative carcass and breast yields p  0.01. serum triglyceride level was higher in sbm ad libitum fed birds p  0.05. the composition of microbiota in the ceca was not af- fected by treatments.

furthermore recent studies have shown that high inclusion of cm in broiler chicken diets significantly decreases nitrogen digestibility even when the diets are formulated based on digestible aa require- ments gopinger et al.

the lighting and temperature program followed the breeder recommendations aviagen .five wheat-based experimental diets table  were formulated as follows sbm diet high cm diet with nor- mal aa concentrations and high cm diets with 3 6 or 9 additional aa contents over strain nutrient recom- mendations aviagen .

