microbial biotechnol 10 doi 10.1111 1751-7915.124612 dedicated to all the olympians who win without resortingto performance enhancing drugs and to those canny microbiologists whose ideas lead to major new discoveries that change our thinking and experimenting and lead to novel applications.3 performance enhancing drugs httpswada-main-prod.

of course some enhancers are injected so the gut bugs do not have an impact on the actual dose given and live off tiny amounts excreted into the gut.

when this happens the toxins kill off some gut bug types but amazingly become food for other new bugs which gather round and eat them detecting these new ones and the absence of those killed by the toxins in the gut microbiome is an even more sensitive signature of doping.

1. terracotta plaque showing pelops and hippodameia metropolitan museum of art.use the drugs as food to grow on she got the idea that such bugs could be present in higher quantities in the faeces of people on peds than of other people so by determining the numbers and proportions of these bugs in the microbiomes of athletes it might be possible to conclude whether they are taking performance enhancers.

2016. the impact of the gut microbiota on drug metabolism and clinical outcome.

and nicholson j.k. 2016. gut microbiome interactions with drug metabolism efficacy and toxicity.

because gut bugs are not accustomed to peds they tend to make more mistakes when digesting them.

environmental microbiology reports 2017 91 25-26doi10.11111758-2229.12494microbiomes metabolic errors and detection of performance enhancing drug abuse12kenneth timmis1 and james kenneth timmis2 1institute of microbiology technical university of braunschweig braunschweig germany 2university of freiburg freiburg im breisgau germany.time august 2020location the olympic stadium tokyooccasion immediately after the 400 m hurdles menbud lying on the track very winded ooofff that was one helluva race congratulations on that fantastic spurt at the endhank drooping and holding his sides thanks buddy win- ning gold is just a wonderful feeling after dreaming about it for so long.

that multivalent microbial dope-sensor product they rub on our heads before the race seems to be pretty power- ful at detecting drugs in sweat.

well it turns out that they also reflect what drugs we take5.

well she was right and this so-called bioassay is much more sensitive than chemical tests of course the fact that we and our microbiomes are all a little different is a bit of a complication but the mathemati- cians are using artificial intelligence approaches6 to iron out the interpretation wrinkles of test results.apparently the next challenge on the horizon seems to be the propeds substances that are not performance enhancing per se and hence not on the wada list7 but that get converted to peds by the microbes in our gi tract and then absorbed.

but one thing i don't understand- if the bug can eat the drug how come there is any left for performance enhancementanna good point i asked my czech microbiologist friend jan exactly this question.

voila the background to the current generation of microbiome ped testsjess incredible although i am not too thrilled having a doctor's digit poked up my rear end it is less uncom- fortable than those smart implants they tried out a cou- ple of years ago.anna wriggling uncomfortably ooohhh yes jan tells me that some bugs able to degrade the drug-derived toxins have now been converted into light-emitting beacons that glow when mixed with faecal samples of a ped taker - more or less like the lit-up scalps we saw this morning - so this will probably lead to a third generation test amazing what neat ideas microbiologists come up withjulio ok but anyway there is still the unresolved issue of those who supposedly take such drugs as med- ication which is open to all kinds of abuse.hank yeah despite the wada defining the conditions for therapeutic use exemptions7 the issue is still prob- lematic which is why there's an ongoing discussion about legalizing the use of peds8.

