the aab diversity shifts and their weight in determining the clus- tering behaviour of the bacterial microbiota in relation to diet might indicate their crucial role in determining the microbiota response to diet in d. suzukii gut.experimental proceduresinsectsfield-captured larvae of d. suzukii emerging from blue- berries raspberries and blackberries in orchards of the cuneo province piedmont north-west italy in summer 2013 have been reared for at least eight generations in laboratory condition both on fruits strawberries blueber- ries grapes and kiwi fruits and on a sugar-based artifi- cial diet composed with 71 g of corn flour 10 g of soy flour 5.6 g of agar 15 g of sucrose 17 g of brewer's yeast 4.7 ml of propionic acid 2.5 g of vitamins mix for each kg of the preparation at the dipartimento di sci- enze agrarie forestali e alimentari disafa university of torino.

it should be underlined that so far competition has been described only for asaia a symbiont that has never been described in d. suzukii or other drosophila flies.in conclusion aab's high prevalence in individuals fed on both diet types their localization and ability to mas- sively recolonize the insect gut indicate that aab are major components of the d. suzukii microbiota and simi- larly to d. melanogaster they might play important roles in the physiology and behaviour of the host.

orders under 3.principal coordinate analysis pcoa on the phylogenetic b-diversity matrix on d. suzukii samples considering all the bacterial otus.principal coordinate analysis pcoa on the phylogenetic b-diversity matrix on d. suzukii samples considering all the bacterial otus except for the ones belonging to aab group.

conversely aab occurred in almost all of the analyzed individuals reared on both food sources with 90 and 92 infection rates in flies maintained on fruits and artificial diet respectively 45 and 46 out of 50 individuals with no significant dif- ference in infection incidence glm p 5 0.727.aab isolationsince the condition of fruit-based rearing is the closest to the diet of d. suzukii in field conditions we concen- trated our efforts on individuals reared on this diet how- ever specimens reared on artificial diet have been also included in the analysis.

high prevalence localization and massive recolonization together with aab clustering behav- iour in relation to diet suggest an aab role in the d. suzukii gut response to diet modification.introductionthe insect gut microbiota plays very critical and essen- tial roles for the host biology physiology and immunity hamdi et al.

prevalence of aab and wolbachia in d. suzukiispecimens.fifty d. suzukii adults 25 males and 25 females reared on fruits and the same number of specimens maintained on artificial diet were used for assessing the prevalence of dif- ferent aab and wolbachia.

s1.characterization of d. suzukii bacterial diversity by dna-based analysisat first to have a general view of the bacterial communi- ty associated with d. suzukii dna extracted from 32fig.

3. bacterial diversity associated with d. suzukii by 16s rrna gene pyrosequencing.16s rna gene pyrosequencing describing bacterial communities at order level associated with d. suzukii.

finally the attribution to either gluconacetobacter or komagataeibacter genera could not be discriminated according to the actual 16s rrna sequence table 1.localization of aab in the d. suzukii gut and colonization by gfp-labelled strainsfluorescent in situ hybridization fish on the insect dis- sected organs using the aab-specific probe aab455table 1. identification of cultivable bacteria associated with d. suzukii.

16s rrna sequen- ces of representative isolates have been deposited in the ena database under the accession numbers ln884027-ln884133.localization of d. suzukii aab by fluorescent in situ hybridization fish and colonization experiments with gfp-labelled strainsfish has been carried out on tissues and organs dissect- ed from mass-reared d. suzukii adults in a sterile saline solution.

moreover pcr-dgge sequencing results revealed high prevalence of aab in insects reared on both diet substrates supporting information table s2.thus to sturdily investigate the diet influence on the insect bacterial community 16s rrna gene pyrosequenc- ing was performed on 14 specimens including eight indi- viduals reared on fruits and six on the artificial diet and considering different developmental stages five larvae two pupae and seven adults.

recolonization experi- ments using g. oxydans dsf1c.9agfp a. tropicalis byea.1.23gfp and a. indonesiensis bta1.1.44gfp have been performed as indicated in supporting infor- mation method s5.characterization of the d. suzukii bacterial community through molecular ecology approachesimmediately after collection larval pupal and adult indi- viduals of d. suzukii have been washed once with etha- nol 70 and twice with saline and immediately stored at 2208c in ethanol until molecular analyses.

characterization of the bacterial communityassociated to d. suzukii by pcr-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge.a 550 bp fragment of the 16s rrna gene was amplified from the total dna extracted from d. suzukii individuals using the forward primer gc357f 30-cct acg gga ggc agc ag-50 containing a 40-bp gc clamp and the reverse primer 907r 30-ccg tca att cct ttg agt tt-50.

characterization of the bacterial community associated to d. suzukii by 16s rrna gene pyrosequenc- ing.dna extracted from d. suzukii individuals was used in 454 pyrotag sequencing.

bacterial diversity associated with d. suzukii by pcr-dgge.dgge profiles of partial 16s rrna bacterial genes ampli- fied from dna extracted from whole insects reared on fruit panels a and b or artificial diet panel c. numbers above the lanes refer to tested individuals.

