the active surveillance of subjects with preneoplastic lesions represents an important step forward in preventing crc and in reducing mortality 90. it is believed that genetic and environmental factors determine the predominant type of recurrent polyps after baseline polypectomy 29. in fact similarities have been found between the type of lesion found at baseline colonoscopy and that detected during follow-up 29 45. however the majority of studies conducted to date focus on the difference between crc and healthy tissue only a few evaluating the different precursors of crc and even fewer assessing the role of recurrent preneoplastic lesions in the development of crc.according to the top-down model genetic modifications occur in healthy tissue of the upper crypt compartment of early conventional lesions 91. conversely genetic andor epigenetic modifications of serrated pathwayearly lesions originate from the lower crypt compartment but have not yet been fully characterized.

conversely principals precursors lesions of the serrated pathway are characterized by braf mutation cimp-high and mss phenotype.in recent years the microrna signatures of conventional serrated preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions have been extensively studied 92 93 94 95. some mirna shed new light into the pathogenic mechanisms underlying adenoma-to-carcinoma progression 96. however no clear molecular signature exists for all of the preneoplastic colorectal lesions identified to date a number of markers would seem to play a role in more than one lesion.for this reason a molecular characterization of preneoplastic lesions would help to better classify preneoplastic lesion subtypes in particular those with a higher risk of recurrence and with worse histopathological features.

reviewwhat influences preneoplastic colorectal lesion recurrencegiulia de maio1 elisa zama1 claudia rengucci1 daniele calistri11biosciences laboratory istituto scientifico romagnolo per lo studio e la cura dei tumori irst irccs meldola fc italycorrespondence to daniele calistri email keywords recurrence preneoplastic lesions suppressor and serrated pathway microbiotareceived august 02 2016accepted november 15 2016published november 25 2016abstractthe hypothesis of the local recurrence of preneoplastic lesions was first put forward in the 1950s.

our review sheds light on how early preneoplastic lesions could be used to diagnose relapsed preneoplastic and developing neoplastic lesions.

reported that phosphatidylinositol-45- bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha pik3ca gene mutations were exclusively observed in tvas 26.in studies on relapsed colorectal lesions the promoters of the tumor suppressor genes mutl homolog 1 mlh1 ataxia telangiectasia mutated atm and fragile histidine triad fhit were found to be significantly hypermethylated in recurring conventional adenomas 27 while the absence of phosphatase and tensin homolog pten expression correlated positively with local recurrence 28. it has also been seen that conventional adenomas recur more frequently in patients with conventional adenomas at baseline polypectomy 29 figure 1.the serrated pathwayjass and smith first described the serrated pathway in colorectal carcinogenesis more than twenty years ago 30. in the literature two terms are synonymous for serrated lesions i.e.

although they are found more frequently than conventional adenomas in younger individuals their incidence does not substantiallyfigure 1 distribution of lesions according to molecular alterations involved in the etiology andor recurrence of preneoplastic lesions.

they can develop conventional or serrated dysplasia both types of which are believed to be markers of progression to carcinoma 23. a subset of tsas with conventional dysplasia cd- tsas is characterized by kras mutations and silencing of mgmt by promoter hypermethylation cimp-low phenotype and mss 44. conversely tsas with serrated dysplasia sd-tsas are characterized by cimp-highbraf mutation and mss 23.numerous studies have shown that individuals with sessile serrated lesions at baseline tend to develop additional sessile serrated lesions over time 29 45 46. of note dna mismatch repair mmr proteins are intact in all cases of tsas including those with dysplasia 47. ssasps without dysplasia are the most clinically important serrated polyps due to their high incidence.

however to date relatively few genetic or epigenetic factors have been correlated with recurrent lesions figure 1. tsas are a heterogeneous group that can be divided into cd-tsas or sd-tsas on the basis of specific molecular markers 47 63. sd-tsas have been described as exhibiting areas with features of hps andor ssasps and the hypothesis that hps and or ssasps may be precursor lesions to tsas has been put forward 23. tsai et al.

by examining the histopathological and molecular features of colorectal preneoplastic lesion subtypes we aimed to show that early preneoplastic colorectal lesions can be used to identify individuals at risk of recurrent preneoplastic lesions and of developing crc.

furthermore a better understanding of microbiota found in relapsed lesions could shed light on the bacteria present in preneoplastic and neoplastic colorectal lesions.

both the esge and agarecommend a follow up ranging from 5 to 10 years 3. follow-up colonoscopy every 10 years is considered adequate for individuals with hyperplastic polyps hps table 1 5.the idea of field cancerization to clarify the incidence of multiple primary tumors local recurrence abnormal tissue near the cancer and multifocal areas of precancerous change emerged in the 1950s 6. initially crc field cancerization was founded on histopathological parameters including size number localization histology and grade of dysplasia of lesions detected during the baseline polypectomy.

reported that 15 of ssp patients developed cancer or adenomatous polyps with high-grade dysplasia compared to 6 of control patients with hps or adenomatous polyps at baseline 40. however patients with non-dysplastic ssasps did not develop advanced neoplasia even though the size and location of the lesions indicated that there was an increased risk of crc 61 62. moreover the detection of serrated polyps was indicative of the subsequent development of mature serrated polyps rather than conventional adenomas 29 57. indeed 94 of patients with serrated adenomas at the first check-up later developed serrated polyps.

this may explain why precursor lesions proliferate downwards or laterally are age-related rapidly progress and are more likely to have a cimp phenotype.generally it has been seen that conventional adenomas follow the traditional pathway of developing cancer with cin cimp-negative mss braf wild type and kras mutated.

2009 3612449-60. doi 10.1056nejmra0804588.langner c. serrated and non-serrated precursor lesions of colorectal cancer.

such knowledge could be implemented in crc screening programs to improve the effectiveness of personalized endoscopic surveillance programs for polyp-bearing patients.acknowledgmentsthe authors would like to thank dr. sara pignatta for revising the paper for important intellectual content.conflicts of interestno potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.author contributionsall authors contributed to this review equally and approved the final version of the manuscript for submission.referencesferlay j soerjomataram i dikshit r eser s mathers c rebelo m parkin dm forman d bray f. cancer incidence and mortality worldwide sources methods and major patterns in globocan 2012. int j cancer.

