environmental microbiology 2017 191 19-20doi10.11111462-2920.13634highlighthidden potential diet-driven changes in redox level shape the rumen microbiomedavid berrydepartment of microbiology and ecosystem science university of vienna althanstrasse 14 vienna 1090 austriadiet is a main driver of gut microbiome composition in humans and other animals and changes in diet can lead to rapid and dramatic changes in the microbiome david et al.

2016 explore the role of a physiochemical param- eter that has been largely ignored in mammalian gut microbiology - oxidationreduction redox potential.

now highlights however that diet-induced changes in redox potential may be an important parameter shaping the gut microbiome and that even in healthy animals differ- ences in oxidative stress defenses could determine the20 d. berrysuccess of members of the microbiota.

moving forward it will be interesting to explore to what extent differential sensitivity to redox potential shapes the gut microbiome of healthy humans and other animals.acknowledgementsthis work was supported by the austrian science fund fwf p27831-b28 and p26127-b20 and the vienna science and technology fund wwtf ls12-001.referencesdanielh.moghaddasgholamia.berryd.

therefore the reduced redox levels in the non-grain diet may give sen- sitive methanomicrobium species an opportunity to bloom and outcompete other methanogens.in the gut microbiology field resistance to oxidative stress has been mostly studied in the context of intesti- nal inflammation and survival near the mucosal tissue where micro-oxic conditions can exist winter et al.

however in addition the authors measured the redox potential in the rumen and unexpectedly discovered that it was dramatically reduced in the non-grain diet.

tested the growth of methanomicrobium mobile a strain closely-related to the dominant methanomicro- biales operational taxonomic unit in the dataset supple- mented with rumen fluids from the non-grain diet at elevated ph andor in the presence of a reducing agent that modifies redox potential.

the authors then examined how reducing agents affect the growth of a range of methanogens and found strikingly that m. mobile was the only tested methanogen whose growth was boosted by a lowered redox potential.

what could explain this pronounced and specific sensitivity to redox potential friedman et al.

2012 which may be linked to shifts in redox potential.

2016 diet-induced changes of redox potential underlie compositional shifts in the rumen archaeal community.

a high fat diet can increase the abundance of oxidative stress response proteins in the mouse gut microbiome daniel et al.

the study demonstrates the tremendous power of combining meta-omics approaches with comparative genomics and cultivation- based physiological experiments to achieve mechanistic understanding of the factors shaping the gut micro- biome.

2014high-fat diet alters gut microbiota physiology in mice.isme j 8 295-308.david l.a. maurice c.f.

2014 diet rapidly and reproducibly alters the human gut microbiome.

