1 that reported early changes in the gut microbiota composition and func- tions of exclusively breastfed infants born from obese mothers com- pared with infants from normal-weight mothers in relation to leptin and insulin concentrations in human milk hm.the authors indicated that the microbiome of these infants at 2 wk of age was dominated by the firmicutes 30.5 proteobacteria 28.8 bacteroidetes 23.8 and actinobacteria 5.6 phyla which was different from the data provided in supplemental table1.

4 but it would have been interesting to know the opinion of the authors on these controversial observations.on the other hand the authors reported a lower proportion of proteo- bacteria in the infants born from obese mothers than in those from normal-weight mothers 35.8 compared with 18. they also reported that the hm concentrations of insulin and leptin were significantly higher in obese mothers than in normal-weight mothers with a positive corre- lation between these hormonal values and the maternal bmi before pregnancy.

surprisingly this gives the final im- pression that infants born from obese mothers would have an im- proved intestinal barrier compared with those from normal-weight mothers.

we think that this conclusion should be tempered because it does not take into account the fact that leptin may also act as a proinflammatory mediator involved in intestinal diseases among other things 5. in consequence exposure of the gut mucosa to high concentrations of luminal leptin during breastfeeding by the obese mother might be damaging to the infant.finally other factors not considered in this study could be present in altered concentrations in the hm of obese mothers.

letters to the editoralterations in human milk leptin and insulin are associated with early changes in the infant intestinal microbiomedear editorwe read with great interest the study by lemas et al.

it is noteworthy that the proportion of actinobacteria mainly rep- resented by bifidobacterium species was rather low 6.7 considering that the infants were exclusively breastfed.

it is gener- ally accepted that the microbiota of exclusively breastfed infants after the first week is dominated by bifidobacterium species 2 3 with the growth of these bacteria being promoted by the oligosac- charides and nucleotides present in hm.

alterations in human milk leptin and insulin are associated with early changes in the infant intestinal microbiome.

dynamics and stabilization of the human gut microbiome during the first year of life.

16s rrna gene-based profiling of the human infant gut microbiota is strongly influenced by sample processing and pcr primer choice.

advances on human milk hormones and protection against obesity.

cell mol biol 20135989-98.doi 10.3945ajcn.116.140129.reply to m gotteland and f magnedear editorwe thank gotteland and magne for their insightful comments on microbial colonization of the infant gut in exclusively breastfed in- fants born to obese and normal-weight mothers.

specifically the au- thors highlight the low abundance of bifidobacterium observed in our cohort at 2 wk of life and our general interpretation of how exposure to leptin in human milk hm during early life may234am j clin nutr 2017105234-6. printed in usa.

