Furthermore the gut microbiota produces molecules that can directly or indirectly influence epigenetic modifications involved in essential cell processes apoptosis inflammation etc.. Alterations in the gut barrier i.e.

We and our gut microbesDear Holobionts1Welcome to this special issue.

Indeed previous figures commonly estimated that bacteria residing in the human body outnumbered human cells by a factor of 10 or more thanks to the special contribution of the gut microbiota 2.

The point is that regardless of this fascinating controversy over the number of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells in our body the intestinal microbiota is certainly crucial to maintaining our health much more than previously thought.The gut microbiota interplays with the host organism from birth to senescence and it is settled during childhood and contributes to the regulation of multiple metabolic pathways through a complex series of highly interactive and symbiotic host-microbiome signaling systems.

leaky gut enable microbes to access to some host's systemic tissues but it is the largeamount of microbial products which can reach tissues throughout the body by which the microbes might mainly modulate our health status.

Certainly we cannot consider the gut microbiota as trillions of micro-pets residing inside us.

gut dysbiosis is involved in a plethora of chronic conditions including among others inflammatory bowel diseases irritable bowel syndrome colorectal cancer and also extra-intestinal disorders such as diabetes cardiovascular diseases metabolic syndrome obesity allergy and asthma.

For this reason the ultimate goal of this themed issue is to offer a wide view regarding the complex cocktail 'diet gut microbiota and health'.

Articles included in this issue pivot on the double-way interaction between gut microbiota and diet or dietary-related compounds such as polyphenols oligosaccharides probiotics etc.

the interaction of gut microbiota to influence multiple mechanisms relevant to colorectal cancer Bultman S. inflammatory bowel diseases Dolan and Chang and obesity Portune et al.

