for example in-depth analysis of the cheese microbial maturation process and a better understanding of the metabolic activities and interactions within the cheese microbial community are possible with metagenomics.

we will better predict the microbial response to changes in food fermentation orcrystal ball 55ripening conditions which will be useful for designing strain-targeted process interventions to exploit microbial performances for process optimization and increased quality.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology microbial biotechnology 10 54-56

thus studies of food microbiology and food-associated microbial ecology are always timely and scientifically rel- evant.the 'cultural' evolution in food microbiology has shifted the focus from the traditional cultivation of food microbes to the consideration of food as a microbiologically dynamic matrix cocolin and ercolini 2015. food can potentially host bacteria yeasts filamentous fungi and even viruses.

2016. additionally metagenomics conducted with shotgun libraries can aid in the exploration of both taxonomic composition and func- tional diversity of microbial communities using a much lar- ger amount of information.

the cheese microbiome could serve as a simplified model for understanding microbial dynamics inreceived 28 september 2016 accepted 29 september 2016.for correspondence.

there- fore in situ high-throughput gene expression studies are readily available to explore functional variations in food microbial consortia de filippis et al.

however identification and characterization of microbial strains their genes and their functions are fundamental to the study of their role in food.

this is traditionally accomplished with whole- or partial-genome sequencing after strain isolation and culti- vation in vitro and many strains of food-associated microbial species have been sequenced thus far.the future of this research is the extraction of strain gen- ome profiles from metagenomics data sets.

2015. the most recent panphlan is a pan- genome-based phylogenomic analysis tool using metage- nomics data to provide strain-level microbial profiling scholz et al.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology.this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.this high-throughput strain-level characterization approach can be used to investigate three different groups of food-associated microorganisms i patho- gens ii spoilers and iii fermentation players.genomewide strain characterization will play a key role in the identification of the pathogenic bacterial species carried by food that are responsible for food poisoning.

it is also expected to bring forth new knowledge that will pro- vide the basis for future risk assessments.similarly in situ profiling of food spoiling microbes withstrain-level resolution will improve identification of their adaptation strategies in food and food-processing envi- ronments and the new knowledge acquired from these studies will help develop innovative preservation strate- gies to selectively inhibit spoilage-associated microbial functions in food.lactic acid bacteria lab and yeasts perform crucial functions in many fermented foods and have been extensively studied for years.

the behaviour of microbial species in food is strain-dependent and poorly predicted.

this will enable customization of strain-level composition of microbial starters according to specific performance and needs.

finally there is still hope to discover unculturable and undescribed genotypes with interesting features from natural starters.it is time to dive into the complex metagenomes offood and obtain the best possible strain characterizations that can be used for the improvement of food quality and safety.conflict of interestthe authors declare that they have no competing interest.referencescocolin l. and ercolini d. 2015 zooming into food-asso- ciated microbial consortia a cultural evolution.

