61 1 2017 1770014hot topics in 2017 - gut microbiota whole grains and healthwith the first issue of molecular nutrition  food research mnf in 2017 we present a special issue on gut microbiota edited by juan carlos espin.

highlights of this special issue are emphasized in the guest editorial by juan carlos espin.later in the year a second special issue will be devoted to the topic health effects of whole grains.most of our readers will be aware that mnf has developed extremely well with a current isi impact factor of 4.551 and a 5-year if of 4.7. this success has brought an ever-increasing workload for the editor in chief and associate editors as the number of submissions has more than doubled since 2009. for this reason we have decided in agreement with the publisher to transfer handling of the peer-review process to the editorial office.

we have also started to highlight top articles on the journal cover an exciting opportunity for authors that has been well received by the community.we would like to thank all of our authors senior editors members of the editorial board and reviewers for their continued support and effort in achieving the high scientific quality and great success of molecular nutrition  food research.

as the demand for whole grain products is continuously increasing all over the world this issue will summarize recent findings and especially highlight the role of bioactive compounds in whole grains for human health.

food res.

starting 2017 a team of in-house editors led by chris mayer will take care of reviewer selection and invitation as well as manuscript evaluation and decision.

we also thank especially chris mayer and all coworkers at the publisher for the productive and pleasant collaboration.this issue will be edited by shengmin sang north carolina at state university usa and rikard landberg swedish university of agricultural sciences sweden as guest editors.

relevant aspects will be covered ranging from phytochemicals in grains the impact of food processing on content and activity to their in vivo effects.hans-ulrich humpfuniversity of munsterjan frederik stevensoregon state universityclaus schneider vanderbilt university medical schoolqc 2017 wiley-vch verlag gmbh  co. kgaa weinheim

