of the 11 subjects enrolled in study 1 and 15 subjects enrolled in study 2 10 and 14 subjects respectively completed both periods in each study and were considered evaluable for pharmacokinetics pk .

the graphs display the mean plasma ceftriaxone concentration - the standard deviations sd over time for 10 subjects from study 1 a and 14 subjects from study 2 b. study 1 period 1 i.v.

study 1 enrolled 11 subjects while study 2 enrolled 15 subjects 3 subjects participated in both studies.

a total of 6 of 11 subjects had teaes considered related to ceftriaxone alone during period 1 when no ribaxamase was administered and a total of 3 of 11 subjects 2 of 6 in the 75-mg group and 1 of 5 in the 150-mg group had teaes considered related to ribaxamase and ceftriaxone during period 2. the only teae that occurred in more than one subject was headache.in study 2 a total of 8 teaes occurring in 5 of 15 subjects were considered related to any study drug see table s2 in the supplemental material.

subject 10061002 received 150 mg of ribaxamase in both studies while subject 30092001 received 75 mg of ribaxamase in study 1 and 150 mg in study 2. subject 10011001 received 150 mg of ribaxamase in both studies but had detectable ribaxamase in their chyme about 2 h earlier in study 1 period 2 than in study 2 period 1 and also had different concentrations of ribaxamase detected in the two studies.discussionribaxamase is a f3-lactamase designed to be orally administered during treatment with certain i.v.-administered f3-lactam antibiotic to protect the gut microbiome from disruption by intestinally excreted antibiotics.

in study 2 14 of the 15 subjects completed the study while one subject prematurely discontinued study participation due to an ae stoma site hemorrhage related to ceftriaxone and ribaxamase administration.

there were no deaths or serious aes reported during either study and other than the one subject from each study that discontinued as described above no other subjects discontinued either study.

the mean ceftriaxone concentration-time profiles were substan- tially lower in period 2 than in period 1 from 2.5 h after the start of the ceftriaxone infusion 3 h after the first ribaxamase dose through to the last samples collected  indicating the daily doses of esomeprazole administered before and during period 2 had no negative effect on ribaxamase activity.fig 3 comparison of ceftriaxone concentrations in intestinal chyme for eight subjects from study 1. serial chyme samples as available were collected and analyzed for their ceftriaxone concentrations over time in periods 1 a and 2 b of study 1. the data show individual ceftriaxone concentration curves assay lower limit of quantitation 1 ugml for eight subjects subject numbers indicated on the figure over time.

mean values within 1 sd of each otherfig 4 ribaxamase concentrations in intestinal chyme for ten subjects from period 2 of study 1. serial chyme samples as available were collected and analyzed for their ribaxamase concentrations over time in period 2 of study 1. the data show individual concentration curves assay lloq 10 ngml for 10 subjects subject numbers are indicated in the figure over time.

missing data points indicate that no chyme was available for collection at that time point.but in period 2 ribaxamase was generally detected earlier in the chyme than for the same subjects in period 1 .three of the subjects participated in both studies which occurred several months apart and a comparison of their ribaxamase concentrations in chyme for study 1 period 2 and study 2 period 1 are presented in fig.

ceftriaxone was well tolerated see table s2 in the supplemental material and con- firmed that while ribaxamase effectively degraded ceftriaxone excreted into the humanfig 5 comparison of ceftriaxone concentrations in intestinal chyme for eleven subjects from study 2. serial chyme samples as available were collected and analyzed for their ceftriaxone concentrations over time in periods 1 a and 2 b of study 2. the data show individual ceftriaxone concentration curves assay lloq 1 ugml for 11 subjects subject numbers are indicated in the figure over time.

because of the variability seen in the concentration curves for ribaxamase in intestinal chyme the 150-mg dose of ribaxamase administered every 6 h during antibiotic dosing and for a short time thereafter has been selected for continuedfig 6 ribaxamase concentrations in intestinal chyme for fourteen subjects from study 2. serial chyme samples as available were collected and analyzed for their ribaxamase concentrations over time in hours in periods 1 a and 2 b of study 2. the data show individual concentration curves assay lloq 10 ngml for 14 subjects subject numbers are indicated in the figure over time.

of the 11 subjects enrolled in study 1 6 subjects were randomly assigned to receive 75 mg of ribaxamase and 5 subjects were assigned to receive 150 mg of ribaxamase.

in study 2 subjects also received 40 mg of esomeprazole 1 h prior to the first dose of ribaxamase in period 2. in both studies serial plasma and chyme samples were collected for analysis during periods 1 and 2 and an end-of-study visit occurred 3 to 7 days after period 2.medical history finding and in addition to the expected findings of surgical procedures related to the placement of an ileostomy 11 subjects had been diagnosed with crohn's disease and 7 subjects with ulcerative colitis.safety assessments.

two of the subjects in study 1 seemed to have delayed appearance of ribaxamase in their chyme during period 2 compared to the other eight subjects subjects 1006 see fig.

