reliance on standard urine culture alone might limit the information available to physicians the additional information available from enhanced urine culture techniques helps inform clinicians of the status of the urinary microbiota including the presence of uropathogens that might be missed using standard urine culture protocols.

2016. brubaker and wolfepage 5brubaker and wolfepage 6figure 1. urine is not sterilethis urine sample was obtained by transurethral catheter from a woman seeking urogynaecology care a  1 ml urine was spread on a blood agar plate and incubated for 24 h at 35degc at ambient atmosphere.

now research in 2016 has shown that expanded culture techniques enable improved uropathogen detection and confirm that bacteria detected by culture-independent methods are alive.nearly every clinician assesses urinary health from time to time for example ordering and interpreting a urine analysis andor urine culture to detect a uti.

they reported that 100 ml of urine plated onto blood bap colistin naladixic acid cna and macconkey agars in 5 co2 for 48 h resulted in detection of 84 of all uropathogens versus just 33 with the commonly used standard urine protocol fig 1.clinicians face a number of challenges when caring for women with lower urinary tract symptoms.

urine is not sterile use of enhanced urine culture techniques to detect resident bacterial flora in the adult female bladder.

in a carefully controlled study these investigators collected catheterized urine samples from clinically well-characterized women mean age approximately 58 years with urgency urinary incontinence uui n10 and nine women without such symptoms.

finally they demonstrated that increased diversity of the urinary microbial community was associated with a concomitant lower frequency of lactobacillus in clinically postmenopausal women who are not taking exogenous oestrogen.brubaker and wolfepage 3a third paper by price and co-workers5 addressed the clinical relevance of bacterial members of the urinary microbiota focusing on the ability of the standard urine culture protocol to detect microorganisms.

however standard urine culture conditions are not ideal for many other known human uropathogens.

hilt and co-workers2 had previously described enhanced urine culture techniques that were established to grow organisms detected previously by sequencing.

a key message of this paper was the low rate of uropathogen detection using standard urine culture techniques.

using baseline catheterized samples from 150 adults attending urogynaecology clinics standard urine culture failed to detect 67 of uropathogens overall and 50 in participants with severe urinary symptoms.

the investigators evaluated a variety of culture conditions to determine the optimal urine culture method that could be incorporated into any clinical laboratory for optimizing the detection of uropathogens.

the robust information generated by enhanced urine culture techniques provide an opportunity to advance clinical care and refine best practices in antibiotic stewardship and avoid use of interventions that wipe out bacterial communities that have a favourable biological function.acknowledgmentsthe authors would like to thank the members of the loyola urinary education and research collaborative for their contributions to the work described in particular dr paul schreckenberger from the loyola department of pathology for help in putting together this manuscript.

the clinical urine culture enhanced techniques improve detection of clinically relevant microorganisms.

this technique is part of the standard urine culture protocol.

