c57bl6 mice were purchased from the shanghai laboratory animal center slac chinese academy of sciences rag1 -  - mice were obtained from the model animal research center nanjing university cxcr6gfpgfp and cd45.1 thmice were purchased from the jackson laboratory tcrd -  - mice were a gift from dr zhinan yin nankai university tlr2 -  - tlr4 -  - and tlr9 -  - mice were a gift from dr shaobo su sun yat-sen university il17a -  - mice were a gift from dr zhexiong lian university of science and technology of china ustc andja18 -  - and cd1d -  - mice were a gift from dr li bai ustc.

abx-pretreated spf mice were co-housed with normal mice for an additional 4 weeks to reconstitute their gut bacteria restored and the hepatic gdt-17 cell numbers were evaluated by facs n 14 4 for spf mice n 14 5 for gf mice.

wt and cd1d -  - mice were co-housed to share the same microbiota but cd1d -  - mice had a decreased number of hepatic gdt-17 cells with lower prop- ortions of cd27 - ccr6 th cells compared with wt mice similar to the result observed in abx-treated wt mice 5a.

after antibiotic treatment stopped abx-treated mice were co-housed with normal mice for 4 weeks to reconstitute commensals.for the pamp restoration experiment wt mice and abx-treated mice were intraperitoneally i.p.

the frequency of il-17a expression by each hepatic gdt-cell subtype n 14 10 7 5 from top to bottom d and the frequency of hepatic gdt cells with the phenotype cd44highcd62l - cd27 - ccr6 th  annexin-v th7aad - and ki67 th n 14 5 per group e from water-treated mice abx-treated mice and gf mice were analysed by facs.

however although different compositions of microbes were induced in the mice 3a there was almost no correlation between the gdt- 17 cell number and the antibiotic type 3b or the bacteria species diversity 3c.interestingly the mice with low levels of microbes always had small numbers of hepatic gdt-17 cells and the mice with high levels of microbes always had large numbers of hepatic gdt-17 cells 3b.

e. coli was completely deleted in eight groups of mice including the a v am vn avm avn vnm and avnm groups 4a but some mice without e. coli v avm and avn groups still had a comparable level of hepatic gdt-17 cells as normal mice 3b suggesting thate.

however after depleting commensal microbes abx-treated mice that started with lower hepatic gdt-cell numbers had only slight increases compared with the baseline of control mice and the numbers was far lower than the levels observed in hfdhfhcd-induced nafld mice 8ab.

a wt mice were placed on an hfd for 24 weeks and the hepatic gdt-17 cell number was detected by facs n 14 4 5. b-d wt mice and tcrd -  - mice were placed on an hfd for 24 weeks.

in this study we showed that microbiota-maintained liver-resident gdt-17 cells were the main source of il-17a and could significantly accelerate nafld 7. an interesting finding was the uncoupling of decreased liver inflammation and increased body weight 9d in abx-treated mice which was also found by other groups in il17ra -  - mice and abx-treated mice.

six- to ten-week-old male mice were used in most of the experiments with exceptions such as the use of neonatal mice in the ontogeny experiment and the use of 30-week-old mice in the hfdhfhcd-induced nafld experiment.

while conventional t cells exhibited substantial chimerism 1e the livers of cd45.1 parabiont mice contained almost all cd45.1 th gdt cells with very few if any cd45.2 th gdt cells vice versa was observed in cd45.2 parabiont mice 1e.

iel intraepithelial lymphocyte iln inguinal lymph node mln mesenteric lymph node pc peritoneal cavity si small intestine.to directly observe the interaction between hepatic gdt-17 cells and the microbiota germ-free gf mice were used which had even more significantly decreased numbers of hepatic gdt-17 cells than abx-treated spf mice 2b.

these results indicate that the accumulation of hepatic gdt cells relies on microbiotas.the reduced hepatic gdt-17 cells in abx-treated mice and gf mice were not restricted by vg chain usage 2d.

consistent with the reduced il-17a expression by gdt cells from abx-treated mice and gf mice they were less differe-ntiated and less activated as indicated by the lower proportions of cd27-ccr6 th and cd44highcd62l- cells 2e.

