recently von laffert et al.67 observed an interfollicular epidermal hyperplasia in some cases of hs often noting a psoriasiform aspect and hyperplasia of the follicular epithelium with follicular hyperkeratosis.the occurrence of a thickening of lesional skin in some fd patients corresponding to an epidermal hyperplasia which was sometimes psoriasiform figure 1 led us to look for the presence of epidermal hyperplasia and follicular hyperkeratosis in 26 fd patients.

these signs were described in the works of von laffert et al.67 histomorphological fea- tures systematically assessed included follicular hyperkeratosis hyperplasia of the interfollicular epidermis hyperplasia or atrophy of the follicular epithelia perifolliculitis with characterization of the nature of the infiltrate with or without inflammatory granuloma fol- licle rupture defined as a breach in the follicular wall resulting from more or less complete destruction follicular cysts polytrichia pres- ence or absence of sebaceous glands dermal fibrosis and ostial pustules.the data are presented in table 1. follicular hyperkeratosis was found in 77 2026 of cases mostly in a mild form figures 2 and 3. interfollicular epidermal hyperplasia was present in 92 2426 of cases and was psoriasiform ie acanthosis with equally extended and club-shaped rete ridges in 88 2124 of cases figure 4. it had a non-thickened stratum corneum on its upper layer which was most often ortho-keratotic 88-2124 with conservation of the stratum granulosum and no suprapapillary plate thinning in any case.

others have provided a histological picture where it is present but not described.10111520-23 often clinically visible the epidermal hyperplasia of fd was studied using dermoscopy by rakowska et al.24 who described a characteristic starburst pattern which was observable in 66 of cases in a series of 9 patients.these histological features concerning follicular hyperkeratosis and epidermal hyperplasia in fd can be compared with those recently described as being a major histological characteristic of hs6725 table 2. in fd the hyperplasia is located to the interfollicu- lar epidermis however in most cases it is associated with atrophy of the follicular epithelia.

it is indeed surprising to note that little is still known about normal follicular microbiota and that there are only rare stud- ies concerning the scalp49-52 and no data available on axillary and inguinal folds.figure 3 follicular hyperkeratosishistological aspect with follicular plugging and important perifollicular neutrophilic infiltrate hemalun eosin safran hes x100.figure 5 epidermal acanthosis with atrophy of the follicular epithelium hemalun eosin safran hes x100.table 2 follicular hyperkeratosis and psoriasiform hyperplasia of the interfollicular epidermis in fd our study and hs6725fd our study7788abbreviations fd folliculitis decalvans hs hidradenitis suppurativa.figure 6 deep follicular microcysts hemalun eosin safran hes x200.conflict of interestthe authors have no conflict of interest to declarereferencesross ek tan e shapiro j. update on primary cicatricial alopecias.j am acad dermatol.

the presence of follicular hyperkeratosis in fd with a histo- logical aspect of follicular plugging as described in both fd and hs735 raises the question of the role of follicular occlusion in its pathogenesis like in hs where it is currently considered as a cru- cial event.36-39the psoriasiform aspect of the epidermal hyperplasia in both fd and hs suggests a common pathological mechanism of this hyperplasia.

the significationfigure 4 psoriasiform orthokeratotic epidermal hyperplasia with conserved stratum granulosum and intradermal follicular infiltrate of neutrophils in a demonstrative patient hemalun eosin safran hes x100.of psoriasiform epidermal hyperplasia in fd is particularly interesting to study in the light of an analogy with hs although these 2 condi- tions are clinically very different.

arch dermatol.

j eur acad dermatol venereol.

j eur acad dermatol venereol.

br j dermatol.

exp dermatol.

br j dermatol.

br j dermatol.

j dermatol.

j eur acad dermatol vener- eol 2015291750-1757.ross ek vincenzi c tosti a. videodermoscopy in the evaluation of hair and scalp disorders.

