ewater metagenomic analysis reveals low bacterial diversity and the presence of antimicrobial residues and resistance genes in a river containing wastewater from backyard aquacultures in the mekong delta vietnamtatsuya nakayama    tran thi tuyet hoa  kazuo harada    minae warisaya  megumi asayama  atsushi hinenoya  joon won lee  tran minh phu  shuhei ueda  yoshinori sumimura  kazumasa hirata   nguyen thanh phuong yoshimasa yamamoto  a global collaboration center osaka university 2-7 yamadaoka suita osaka 565-0871 japanb graduate school of life and environmental sciences osaka prefecture university 1-58 rinku ourai kita izumisano osaka 598-8531 japanc graduate school of pharmaceutical science osaka university 1-6 yamadaoka suita osaka 565-0871 japan d college of aquaculture and fisheries can tho university campus ii 32 street ninh kieu can tho viet nam e osaka prefectural institute of public health 1-3-69 nakamichi higashinari-ku osaka 537-0025 japana r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 6 august 2016 received in revised form 12 december 2016accepted 17 december 2016available online 3 january 2017keywordswater microbiota antimicrobial residue antimicrobial resistance gene aquaculturewaste watera b s t r a c t the environmental pathways for the dissemination of antibiotic resistance have recently received increased attention.

currently three aquaculture styles are used in the mekong delta river-based aquaculture land-based aqua- culture and traditional backyard-based aquaculture which in- volves an integrated recycling farm system termed the vegetable aquaculture and caged animal vac system.

additionally antimicrobial residues and args are important indicators of antimicrobial usage by fam- ers and environmental microbiota can be used to evaluate the in- fluence of antimicrobial agents on the ecosystem.

therefore antimicrobial usage for production sites livestock and agriculture and human flow into aquacultures or rivers may pollute rivers and could introduce antimicrobial resi- dues args or arb.conclusionin this study we demonstrated that the antimicrobial residues smx sdd and tmp were widely detected in freshwater systems together with the blactx-m-1 blactx-m-9 blatem tetc and sul1 genes.

farmers at fish production sites such as those on the mekong delta often add antimicrobial agents to aquaculture waters including sulfamethoxazole smx sulfadiazine sdz trimethoprim tmp and enrofloxacin which are among the most persistent antimicrobial drugs in water sys- tems .

however the relationships of between antimicrobial usage by farmers with the prevalences of antimicrobial residues args and arb and overall ecosystem health are unclear.the mekong delta is the most famous aquaculture productionsite in vietnam.

several reports have analyzed antimicrobial usage in the mekong delta    however these studies did not investigate the effects of different aquaculture styles or the relationships between human behaviors antimicrobial res- idues and ecosystems.

these commercial fish items were originated from aquaculture in the mekong delta of vietnam indicating that it is necessary to investigate antimicrobial usage at aquaculture production sites in that region.

anthropological surveillance showed that some farmers did not use antimicrobial agents for aquaculture management and the freshwater used for aquaculture was obtained from river water.

although land-based aquaculture manage- ment is dictated by viet gap backyard-based aquaculture is managed only by the farmers who likely acquired their knowledge of antimicrobial usage from their parents friends and television broadcasts.

aquatic environments act as reservoirs or sources of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria antimicrobial residues and antimicrobial resistance genes args.

before shipping fishery products from the aquaculture the antimicrobial residues are carefully monitored.

according to viet gap several antimicrobial agents are allowed for aquaculture management.

accordingly the aim of this study was to elucidate the antimicrobial residues args and water microbiota present at sites in the mekong delta that utilize each of the three aquaculture styles employed three.

2. detection of antimicrobial residues in the 12 tested freshwater aquaculture systems.

