lps contains three structural components lipid a a glucosamine-based phospholipid that anchors lps core oligosaccharides which include sugars such as keto- deoxyoctulosonate kdo heptose and hexoses glucose galactose and o polysaccharides also known as o antigen composed of both monosaccharides and non-carbohydrate components 71. the o antigen can be incredibly diverse in its exact composition and structure where e.coli notably produces approximately 170 o serotypes 71. however lipid a is the only component to be recognized by the innate immune system 72 through a receptor complex that includes lps binding protein lbp cd14 toll-like receptor 4 tlr4 and md2 73.components of this lps-sensing receptor complex are expressed by peripheral sensory neurons including nodose ganglion neurons 74 trpv1-positive nociceptor trigeminal neurons 7576 and dorsal root ganglia drg neurons 77-80. consistent with this observation lps has been reported to directly activate sensory neurons via tlr4 eliciting calcium influx in trigeminal 7681 and drg neurons 82. lps also sensitized the response of trigeminal neurons to capsaicin the active ingredient in chili peppers that binds to the nociceptive ion channel trpv1 and mediates pain 7681.in contrast tlr4-independent nociceptor activation and pain production by lps has also been reported.

it was proposed that butyrate actsyang and chiupage 13directly in enteric neurons to increase histone acetylation and chat expression the effect of which was partially dependent on the expression of monocarboxylate transporter 2 mct2 in enteric neurons 139. alternatively scfas may also indirectly influence gut motility by inducing enterochromaffin cells to produce 5-ht that act on enteric neurons 123140141.4-3. pathogen-associated molecular patterns pampssimilar to nociceptive sensory neurons discussed in sections 2-2-3 and 2-2-4 enteric neurons also express toll-like receptors to detect bacterial pamps such as gram-negative bacterial lps via tlr4 and gram-positive bacterial peptidoglycans and lipoproteins via tlr2 78142143. tlr4-mediated activation of enteric neurons regulates neuronal survival and gut motility 144 whereas tlr2 signaling affects ens structure and intestinal contractility 143.the gut-brain axisa wealth of recent studies highlight the bidirectional communication that occurs between the gut microbiota and the brain which is referred to as the gut-brain axis.

second peripheral sensory neurons - olfactory chemosensory neurons and nociceptor sensory neurons - detect bacterial toxins formyl peptides and lipopolysaccharides lps through distinct molecular mechanisms to elicit smell and pain.

the intrinsic neurons of the gut form the enteric nervous system ens which forms a complete sensorimotor reflex circuit consisting of intrinsic primary afferent neurons ipans interneurons and motor neurons contained entirely within the gut wall.

gut bacterial modulation of homeostatic functionin addition to influencing the enteric nervous system and gut motility section 4 short chain fatty acids scfas have also been linked to the gut-brain-axis through neural circuits that are activated by sensory afferents that feed into the hypothalamus and to efferent nerves within the sympathetic and parasympathetic branches of the autonomic nervous system.indeed gpr41 one of the receptors for scfas has been reported to be expressed in various parts of the peripheral nervous system that constitute the gut-brain axis including nodose neurons drg neurons and sympathetic ganglia neurons 157.kimura et al.

in primitive organisms such as caenorhabditis elegans pathogenic bacteria are detected by chemosensation which leads to avoidance behavior 7. recent work shows that similar mechanisms are also present in mammals whose vomeronasal olfactory neurons and pain-sensing nociceptor neurons respond to bacterial effectors such as pore-forming toxins n-formyl peptides and various pathogen-associated molecular patterns pamps.

however c. elegans is also susceptible to infection by pathogenic bacterial species and can use associative learning to avoid pathogens following exposure 52. a specific subset of sensory neurons expressing npr-1 a receptor homolog to the neuropeptide y receptor in mammals critically mediates c. elegans avoidance behavior of the bacterial pathogen pseudomonas aeruginosa 53. this bacterial sensing is dependent on oxygen levels and interestingly also leads to neuronal modulation of host defenses 5354. certain bacterial metabolites act as innate chemorepellents such as serrawettin w2--a lipidated cyclic peptide produced by the pathogen serratia marcescens--which is detected by awb neurons through a g-protein signaling pathway.

discovered that mouse vomeronasal olfactory neurons express subsets of fprs fpr-rs1 fpr-rs3 fpr-rs4 fpr-rs6 and fpr-rs7 5960.accordingly fmlf a prototypical formyl peptide derived from e.coli 61 induced calcium influx in vomeronasal sensory neurons ex vivo 60. this finding suggests that mammalsyang and chiupage 7may be able to smell bacteria through n-formylated peptides reminiscent of olfaction- mediated pathogen avoidance by c. elegans.2-2.

both fmlf an e. coli-derived formyl peptide and fmifl a s. aureus- derived formyl peptide 62 induce calcium influx in nociceptor neurons to produce mechanical pain sensitivity when administered to mice 63. nociceptor sensory neurons express fpr1 and the degree of neuronal activation and mechanical pain produced by bacteria is reduced in the absence of fpr1.

following lps activation trigeminal and drg neurons produce pain and nodose ganglia neurons modulate appetite nausea and fever.

cpg induced drg neurons to express inflammatory mediators including prostaglandin e2 pge2 and il-1 and also increased expression of trpv1 86.tlr3 and tlr7 have also been reported to be expressed in sensory neurons.

in addition the viability of neurons astrocytes and microglia were unaffected by the toxin 115.yang and chiupage 11triggering neuronal depolarization through pore formation is a shared mode of action between c. perfringens epsilon toxin and s. aureus alpha toxin section 2-2-2. further investigation could elucidate whether neuronal activation by bacterial pore-forming toxins is a general phenomena and if there are any structural or functional requirements for the pore to trigger depolarization other than sustaining the passage of cations through the plasma membrane.bacterial modulation of the enteric nervous systemthe gastrointestinal tract is one of the most densely innervated organs in the periphery by neurons that are either intrinsic or extrinsic to the gut.

bacterial molecules originating in the gut lumen may influence the intrinsic enteric neurons of the host ens through direct or indirect mechanisms figure 3. direct interactions require the molecule to pass the epithelial barrier to access the nerve endings of enteric sensory neurons which reside within layers of connective and muscular tissue immediately beneath the intestinal epithelium.

for example vibrio cholerae cholera toxin or metabolites produced from the gut microbiota act on ecs to induce the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine 5-ht also known as serotonin which act on enteric neurons to regulate peristalsis and secretions 121-123.yang and chiupage 12bacteria also activate resident immune cells of the gut which may signal to enteric neurons through immune mediators 124125. it is well appreciated that the commensal gut microbiota plays an integral role in the development and homeostasis of intestinal immune cell subsets and in enhancing innate and adaptive immune responses against pathogens during luminal infections 126. in turn molecular mediators secreted by gut-resident immune cells can be detected by corresponding receptors in the ens and affect enteric function.

for example muscularis macrophages mms of the gut secrete bone morphogenetic protein 2 bmp2 which activates bmp receptors on enteric neurons to regulate gut motility 127. antibiotic treatment reduced the expression of bmp2 from mms suggesting that the gut microbiota may signal to the enteric nervous system indirectly via this immunological intermediary.here we focus on examples of direct interactions between molecular products of the gut microbiota and enteric neurons which subsequently influence gastrointestinal motility.4-1.

