unless stated otherwise only mated flies were used in this study.generation of axenic drosophila stocks and bacterial mono- associationto generate axenic flies eggs were collected overnight and treatedin sterile conditions with successive 2 min baths of bleach and 70 ethanol.

flies of the same age were also used for full starvation assays in tubes providing only water supply to the flies.

the lifespan of adult males and females was assessed after larval development under low nutrition with or without l.p.wjl when flies were kept on either a normal diet ab or the same low-yeast diet as the larvae cd.direct impact on adult fitness traits by associating newly emerged flies following larval development in axenic conditions.

to address this question we assessed several fitness parameters in young adult flies and observed that overall l.p.wjl association was not detrimental for adult fitness.

409553. all experimental flies were kept in incubators at 25degc with a 12 h12 h lightdark cycle.

germ-free flies were kept on antibiotic food for a few generations and conventionally reared stocks were used to regenerate axenic stocks regularly.

for association at the adult stage antibiotic- free fly food was inoculated as described above and left to dry under a hood 40-50 newly emerged adult flies females and males mixed 11 were then transferred into the inoculated tubes and reared for 7 days until the beginning of the experiments.developmental timingfifty germ-free embryos were associated with l.p.wjl or kept axenic as described above.

newly emerged adult flies were kept on standard food until the time of dissection.

the cotton is covered with a piece of whatmann paper on which the flies are placed.

survival of the flies was recorded twice a day until all individuals were dead.lifespanafter larval development on either standard 50 g l-1 yeast or low-yeast 8 g l-1 yeast diet newly emerged adults were kept all together for 3-4 days before males and females were separated for the subsequent experiments.

groups of 10 mated flies were transferred to fresh vials containing either standard or low-yeast diet.

flies were transferred to fresh fly food tubes twice a week and survival was recorded daily until all individuals were dead.

for all experiments the p-values are reported on the corresponding figure panels only when 0.05.resultsl.p.wjl does not directly impact drosophila adult fitnessto determine whether l.p.wjl had an impact on fly physiology at the adult stage we first assessed the direct effect of l.p.wjl on adult drosophila by associating newly emerged flies with the bacteria.

the flies were left to mature for several days on diets with decreasing amounts of yeast and were then tested for fecundity fertility and resistance to full starvation.

after 8 days in various nutritive conditions there was a clear effect of diet composition on the number of eggs laid per female and on the number of adult progeny emerging from these eggs with decreasing amounts of yeast in the diet the flies laid fewer eggs fi1b and the fertility ratio number of emerging progenynumber of eggs laid showed a statistically significant increase in variability 1c s1.

