dataset 3 contained 528 human gut 16s rrna amplicon samples from healthy adults children less than 3 years old c-3 and children of 3-17 years old c-17 from three countries malawi usa and venezuela produced by yatsunenko et al.these three datasets were employed as representatives of 16s rrna amplicon based microbiome data.on the other hand in order to test the performance on shotgun metagenomics data datasets 4 was included which contained 10 artificial metagenomic shotgun samples that were simulated with nine organisms using dwgsimversion 0.1.8. these 10 samples were divided into two groups based on proportion of organisms to test the sensitivity of parallel-meta 3 in distinguishing samples with different community patterns detailed design of simulation in table s1 of supplementary file s1.results of 16s rrna amplicon samples from the first three datasets were generated via parallel-meta 3 ver- sion 3.3.2 then they were compared to the taxonomical structure reported by qiimeversion 1.9.0 and func- tional profiles predicted by picrustversion 1.0 that worked the benchmark.

in this work we introduce parallel-meta 3 a comprehensive and fully automatic computational toolkit for rapid data mining among metagenomic datasets with advanced features including 16s rrna extraction for shotgun sequences 16s rrna copy number calibration 16s rrna based functional prediction diversity statistics bio-marker selection interaction network construction vector-graph-based visualizationand parallel computing.

then parallel-meta 3 extracts all the 16s rrna fragments fromfigure 11. community structure patterns parsed from metagenomic shotgun sequences of dataset 4.a simulation design at the genus level b. parallel-meta 3 analysis results at the genus level c. b diversity comparison via pca among parallel-meta 3 16s rrna copy number calibration enabled the default option parallel-meta 3 16s rrna copy number calibration disabled and simulation design.metagenomic shotgun sequences for profiling.

a and b partition of b diversity on taxonomy and functions based on meta-storms distances of dataset 1 c and d shannon index a diversity of dataset1 on genus level and pathway level e and f comparison of 16s rrna reads from v1-v3 region dataset 1and v3-v5 region dataset 2 on taxonomical a diversity and b diversity.

for human-associated microbiota samples from dataset 1 and dataset 2 parallel-meta 3 differentiated samples from each body site via b diversity by their taxonomical and functional profiles b. moreover the distinct degree of microbiomic complexity in each body site was revealed via a diversity  wilcoxon rank-sum test p-value  0.01 oral communities feature especially diverse taxonomical membership vaginal sites harbor particularly simple communities while gut samples had the most complex metabolic functions.

compared to previous versions its advanced features include 16s rrna copy number calibration 16s rrna based functional prediction diversity statistics biomarkers selection and data visualization based on high-quality vector graphs.

for the artificial metagenomicfigure 2. the running time and memory consumption of parallel-meta 3 compared to the benchmark software of qiime and picrust with 16s rrna amplicon datasets.figure 3. shannon index a diversity of 16s rrna amplicon datasets validated by qiime at the taxonomical genus level a dataset 1 b dataset 2 and c dataset 3 and by picrust at the functional pathway level d dataset 1 e dataset 2 and f dataset 3. simpson index results were shown in figure s1 in supplementary file s1.shotgun sequences of dataset 4 the taxonomy structure generated by parallel-meta 3 version 3.3.2 was com- pared to the simulation design.

moreover statistical analysis figures were automatically generated via the visualization capability of parallel-meta 3. all tests were performed on a rack server with quad intel xeon e5-4620 cpus 32 physical cores 64 threads in total and 256gb ram.figure 4. the b diversity patterns of 16s rrna amplicon datasets based on meta-storms distances validated by qiime a dataset 1 b dataset 2 and c dataset 3 and by picrust d dataset 1 e dataset 2 and f dataset 3.figure 5. correlations of ntsi values calculated respectively by parallel-meta 3 and picrust on 16s rrna amplicon datasets.higher efficiency of parallel-meta 3 in computing time and memory usage than the bench- mark.

for shotgun sequences parallel-mea 3 first constructs hidden markov models using all bacterial 16s rrna sequences of silvaversion 123 and predicts the 16s rrna gene fragments in metagenomic shotgun samples from both the forward sequences and reversed complementary sequences by hmmerversion 3.1 e-value  1e-5.

since change in microbial diversity in microbiota samples has been linked to several human diseases we assessed the capability of parallel-meta 3 in a diversity and b diversity statistics via both taxonomical structure and predicted functional profiles.

we verified the overall taxonomical patterns and predicted metabolic profiles of three 16s rrna amplicon datasets generated by parallel-meta 3 with the benchmark from both a diversity and b diversity aspects.

in addition it was apparent that whether 16s rrna reads were from v1-v3 and v3-v5 regions did not affect the diversity analysis results f.using the human gut microbiome samples of dataset 3 parallel-meta 3 generated results that described the global patterns of age-associated changes and partitions among populations and countries.

the strong pearson correlation r  0.9 also confirmed the uncompromised precision in functional profiling for parallel-meta 3 5.interpreting the diversity of 16s rrna amplicon samples.

in addition considering that the uneven sequencing depth number of sequences among multiple samples may introduce bias in detecting diversity patterns an optional sequence rarefaction for sequencing depth normalization at the otu level is provided after the taxonomic profiling.for prediction and annotation of functional profile parallel-meta 3 re-implements the picrustalgorithm using kegg databaseto estimate all the functional genes harboured in a microbiota using 16s rrna gene otus.

this acceleration demonstrated the capability of parallel-meta 3 on rapid evaluation of input samples which is essential for in-depth data mining with massive amount of sam- ples and complex community structures.identification of microbiota structure pattern from 16s rrna amplicon samples.

