2014. it is clear that a better understanding of the language by which we communicate with our microbiota is a key step to under- standing human health and disease.large scale metagenomic and metabolomic studies in mice and humans are making considerable progress into defining how different populations of intestinal bacteria are altered in disease states franzosa et al.

thus even though the precise identities of the transport proteins involved may be different drosophila mid- gut provides a good model for basic studies into the molecular regulation of epithelial transport.

indeed the impact of the microbiome on mammalian physiology is illustrated by observations from germ-free mice which under normal conditions appear relatively normal but which when tested reveal distinct deficits lynch et al.

however to facilitate such studies new high throughput models are required that enable rapid screening of the actions of different microbes and their metabolites on epithelial cell function.

consequently they do not have a paracellular pathway and responses to luminal microbes can be considered to be due to direct actions on the epithelium.using the drosophilia midgut modelshanbhag et al.

we now know that our gut microbiome is comprised of 1000 different species with microbiota-associated genes outnumbering our own by 1001 arguably making us more bacterial in nature than human.

however it must still be kept in mind that fly physiology is somewhat different to that of humans and that this model only serves as an indicator for the design of more advanced translational studies in mammalian systems.referencesfranzosa ea hsu t sirota-madi a shafquat a abu-ali g morgan xc  huttenhower c 2015. sequencing and beyond integrating molecular 'omics' for microbial community profiling.

for example intestinal bacteria are implicated in setting our basal metabolic tone educating the immune system and even influencing central functions such as appetite control and mood shreiner et al.

under such conditions the nature of our conversation dramatically changes as is evident in many pathological conditions including inflammatory cardiovascular metabolic and psychological disorders walsh et al.

in a paper published in the current issue of the journal of physiologyshanbhag et al.

thus shanbhag et al.

wiley interdiscip rev syst biol med 7 131-138.shanbhag sr vazhappilly at sane a d'silva nm  tripathi s 2017. electrolyte transport pathways induced in the midgut epithelium of drosophila melanogaster larvae by commensal gut microbiota and pathogens.j physiol 595 523-539.shanbhag s  tripathi s 2009. epithelial ultrastructure and cellular mechanisms of acid and base transport in the drosophila midgut.

we are also increasingly appreciating how the gut microbiota are vitally important in controlling many aspects of our physiology.

significant insights have been gained through studying the mouse microbiome in vivo coupled to more reductionist approaches with isolated epithelial cells in vitro.

elegantly demonstrate how luminal bacteria can fundamentally alter intestinal epithelial transport function effects which would in turn be expected to influence important aspects of enterocyte physiology such as418perspectivesj physiol 595.2acid-base balance cell volume regulation and transepithelial fluid and electrolyte transport.as we attempt to gain a better under- standing of how the intestinal micro- biota communicates with us models such as that described by shanbhag and co-workers provide useful tools for decoding the conversation.

