however it is becoming increasingly apparent that the gut micro- biota can influence physiological functions outside of the gastrointestinal system and also that microbial communities in other body sites are relevant for human health and disease via their impact on physio- logical processes.

we also seek to illuminate areas in which more research is needed to fully realizethe potential of microbial manipulation in improving human health.the five reviews that follow fall into two groups.

the remaining articles focus on the gut microbiota but rather than asking how this extensive micro- bial community influences digestive health and disease they summarize evidence to support a role for the gut microbiota in regulating either systemic metabolism janssen  kersten 2017 or brain function dinan  cryan 2017. one immediate impression that arises from this collection is that while different sites in the body normally harbour distinct assemblages of microbes and not just bacteria but also viruses fungi archaea and protists the functional effects that these fellow travellers exert are often overlapping fig.

these authors also stressed the fact that strain-level information is often needed to predict the impact of specific constituents of the cutaneous microbiota.

the beneficial roles of fungi and viruses are also stressed.

nevertheless the authors also caution that skin commensals may become opportunistic pathogens in the setting of wounds.

lactic acid also stimulates antiviral responses and inhibits inflammation.

lactobacilli have also been shown to strengthen vaginal barrier functions and especially the protective properties of cervicovaginal mucus.

smith and ravel also make clear that the vaginal microbiota changes dynamically as women move through various reproductive stages.

they also discuss the evidence for putative bacterial and hostdiet-derived mediators of the cross- talk between the microbiota and metabolic regulation including lipopolysaccharide angiopoietin-like protein 4 angptl4 bile acids and short chain fatty acids.

since bile acids and short chain fatty acid levels are markedly influenced by the gut micro- biota and vice versa delineation of their roles may identify new druggable targets.however the authors also caution that most studies to date have been conducted in mice which have very different profiles of these mediators than do humans.finally dinan and cryan describe the multiple ways in which the microbiota and its products can signal to the brain and the relevance of this microbiota-gut-brain axis for brain development neurocognitive disorders and changes in cognitive function that occur with ageing dinan  cryan 2017. they emphasize that the mode of delivery lack of breastfeeding infections stress and environmental influences may all alter brain development via their impact on the microbiota coupled with the genetic background of the host.

at the other end of life a reduction in the diversity of the micro- biota perhaps driven by dietary changes may also impact mood and cognition.

they also review the emerging evidence for links to diseases such as autism and parkinson's disease but sound a cautionary note about whether microbiota changes are core to the development of brain disease or are simply epiphenomena.

the field will also need to take on the challenging prospect of performing more work in human sub- jects including longitudinal and inter- ventional studies to prove cause-and-effect relationships given that nearly all work to date showing a functional effect of the microbiota has been performed in animal model systems such as germ-free mice with their own limitations.

