However no statistical correlations could be drawn as influent water was analysed rather than water collected from each CDC reactor thus future research will aim to address the putative importance of water quality on the biofilm microbiome.Illumina sequencing of both bulk water and biofilmbacterial communities derived from chlorinated and chlo- raminated treated water was previously shown to be dominated by the phyla Acidobacteria Actinobacteria Bacteroidetes Gemmatimonadetes Planctomyces and Proteobacteria Pinto et al.

Thus mature DW biofilms may be a more accurate representa- tion of biofilms within building systems and hence more relevant in examining Legionella colonization in premise plumbing systems.Using approximately 20-month-old biofilms the results from this study indicated that Cu DW biofilms inoculated with LpVv co-cultures exhibited temperature-dependent colonization of Lp at high and persistent levels for up to 7 months Fig.

4C.Although the water quality parameters collected weekly in this study corresponded to the influent water and not water collected from within each reactor several parameters that were shown to change significantly over the study period have been previously correlated with Legionella occurrence and abundance within DW sys- tems reviewed in Buse et al.

Moreover Legionella densities were initially higher in  250-day-old SS than in Cubiofilms but after 24 months similar levels of Legionella were observed within SS and Cu biofilms suggesting the inhibitory effect of Cu on Legionella may be transient and reduced by the accumulation of corrosion products on the Cu surfaces over time van der Kooij et al.

2012Analysis of structure and composition of bacterial core communities in mature drinking water biofilms and bulk water of a citywide network in Germany.

FLA grazing on stream water-derived biofilms and Klebsiella pneumoniae Pseudomonas fluorescens and Staphylococcus epidermidis biofilms were shown to alter overall morphology and microbial composition of their respective biofilms Huws et al.

Effect of temperature and colonization of Legionella pneumophila and Vermamoeba vermiformis on bacterial community composition of copper drinking water biofilmsHelen Y. Buse1 Pan Ji2 Vicente Gomez-Alvarez1 Amy Pruden2 Marc A. Edwards2 and Nicholas J. Ashbolt31Pegasus Technical Services Inc co US EPA 26 WMartin Luther King Drive NG-16 Cincinnati OH 45268 USA.2Department of Civil and Environmental EngineeringVirginia Tech Blacksburg VA USA.3School of Public Health University of Alberta Edmonton AB T6G 2G7 Canada.SummaryIt is unclear how the water-based pathogen Legio- nella pneumophila Lp and associated free-living amoeba FLA hosts change or are changed by the microbial composition of drinking water DW biofilm communities.

and Ashbolt N.J. 2009 The role of biofilms and protozoa in Legionella pathogenesis implications for drinking water.

2010 Integration of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Legionella pneumophila in drinking water biofilms grown on domestic plumbing materials.

Thus in this study the ability of the partial 16SrRNA gene sequences to differentiate L. pneumophila from non-pneumophila Legionella species was confirmed by comparing sequences against the ribosomal data- bases SILVA Greengenes and RDP using 100 cut-off and similarity values for the analysis which yielded consistent results for each database.Notably Vv was not detected in any of the control bio- film samples and in inoculated reactors Vv was detected only transiently in the LpVv37degC biofilms at day 4 and week 1 Fig.

