mycotic aneurysms may reflect donor-derived infection contamination during procurement or via preservation fluid figure 3a 146. candiduria must be evaluated in the absence of urinary catheters and with good urine flow fungal pyelonephritis is uncommon and fungus balls must be excluded.aspergillus speciesepidemiology invasive aspergillus infection generally occurs in more debilitated or immunosuppressed organ recipients with mortality estimates with invasive disease of 20 to 50 133147-149. the risk of aspergillus infection is increased by factors including organ retransplantation and reexploration posttransplant renal or hepatic failure with renal replacement therapy cmv infection and hepatitis c coinfection 150-154. the rates of aspergillus infections vary by organ and center including livers 1-9.2 hearts 1-14 155156kidney 0.7-4 and pancreas 135157. aspergillus isolation is most common in lung recipients with colonization rates 25 and invasive infection approaching 6 including tracheobronchitis bronchial anastomotic infections and invasive pulmonary 32 and disseminated 22 infections these rates are greater in cystic fibrosis patients and in the native lungs of single lung recipients 148. airway ischemia and clad are risk factors in this population.

risk factors for ptld include primary ebv infection 10- to 76-fold increased risk cmv donor-recipient serostatus mismatch dr  t cell depletion younger age in children older age in adults and intensity of immunosuppression 8890. viral burden in transplanted lymphoid tissues may contribute to increased rates of disease in intestinal transplantation in children up to 32 while kidney 1- 2 heart lung liver and pancreas are lower 3-12 9192. ptld may also occur in the absence of ebv infection or in seropositive recipients 9394. specific calcineurin inhibitors do not appear to increase risk while m-tor inhibitors may increase risk 95. belatacept as maintenance immunotherapy has a higher associated rate of ptld in ebv dr recipients notably involving the cns.

infections occurring at the wrong time sug- gest an excessive epidemiologic hazard or excessive immunosuppression 8. the prevention of infection is linked to the expected risk of infection 47 tables 6 and 7.phase i 1 month posttransplantation during the first month after transplantation infections result from surgical complications donor-derived infections pre- existing recipient infections and nosocomial infections including aspiration or c. difficile colitis.

recent data support the importance of genetic polymorphisms among transplant recipients in risk of microbial colonization and infection 1241. such predis- positions are often unrecognized until additional alter- ations in immune function are introduced.timetable of infection with standardized immuno- suppressive regimens most common infections occur in a relatively predictable pattern depending on the time elapsed since transplantation figure 2. this is a reflection of changing risk factors over time surgeryhospitalization immunosuppression emergence of latent infections and community exposures 8. the pattern of infection changes with alterations in the immunosuppressive regimen including side effects viral infections graft dysfunction or significant epidemiologic exposures e.g.

recent guidelines for donor screening have focused on identification of high- risk behaviors for common viruses human immunodefi- ciency virus hiv hcv hepatitis b virus hbv using a combination of serologic and nucleic acid testing nat 33. nat screening reduces but does not eliminate residual risk the window period following infection in which an infected individual has a negative screening result using serologic assays table 5 19-22. in early infection donors may have viral loads below the limits of detection and lack seroconversion unexpected viral transmission to recipients from deceased or living donorsfishmantable 4 microbiologic screening assays for potential organ recipientstable 5 the estimated window period in microbiologic screening of potential organ donorsmedical and family history countries of origin habitation travel endemic exposures tuberculosis dietary habits water sourceoccupational exposures health care worker animal contacts environmentaltime to positive assay after infectiousexposureserology daysnucleic acid testing daysapproximate reduction in window period dayshobbies caves pigeons garden travel pets drugs inhaled or injectedsexual historyreview microbiological data vaccinations bcg vaccine or therapy.assays to assess recipient riskcytomegalovirus antibodyepstein-barr virus ebv antibody panel ebv viral capsid antigen  early antigen and nuclear antigen antibody levelsmeasles mumps rubella serologiessyphilis nontreponemal and treponemal testinghuman immunodeficiency virus serology elisa or fourth- generation elisahepatitis b hbv serologies including hbv surface antigen or hepb nat core antibody surface antibody qnat if hepatitis c antibody qnat if toxoplasma antibody notably in cardiac recipientstuberculosis by skin test or interferon-c release assay may addherpes simplex virus antibodyvaricella-zoster virus antibodystrongyloides stercoralis htlv 1 and 2 trypanosoma cruzi schistosoma mansoni travel or exposureendemic fungi in usa histoplasma coccidioides sputum cultures for lung recipientsconsider rectal swab for resistant bacteria based on local epidemiology vancomycin-resistant enterococcus multidrug resistant organismsvaccines if nonimmune 18hepatitis bhepatitis a livers travelinfluenzapneumovaxpcv13tetanus tdapmmr review serologiesvaricella zoster virus 50 yearsmeningococcal including type b haemophilus influenzaedesensitization protocols splenectomyhuman papillomavirusbcg bacille calmette-guerin elisa enzyme-linked immunoas- say nat nucleic acid testing qnat quantitative molecular assays htlv human t-cell lymphotrophic virus pcv pneumo- coccal vaccine mmr measles mumps rubella.has occurred.

reduction in immunosuppression may be a useful component of antimicrobial therapy but risks graft rejection and increased inflammation in the form of immune reconstitution syndromes 7. pathogen- specific immune assays suggest the relative risk of cer- tain infections however in the face of intensive immunosuppression protective immunity while useful tends to dissipate.risk of infection and the timeline of infectionthe risk of infection for the recipient at any point in time after transplantation is a function of two factorsthe epidemiologic exposures of the patient and the organ donor including recent nosocomial and remote exposures table 1 8.the patient's net state of immunosuppression including all factors contributing to the risk of infection table 2.table 1 epidemiologic exposures relevant to transplantation1 virusherpes group cmv ebv hhv6 7 8 hsv vzvhepatitis viruses hav hbv hcv hevretroviruses hiv htlv-1 and 2others west nile wnv chikungunya zika dengue lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus rabies bacteriagram-positive and gram-negative bacteria staphylococcus spp.

if the correct dose of ganciclovir cannot be tolerated prophylaxis can be replaced with pre-emptive monitoring.heart liver pancreas intestine and vascularized com- posite allograft recipients at risk for primary infection cmv dr  generally receive prophylaxis for 3- 6 months after transplantation table 6 4676. many centers utilize 6 months of prophylaxis in cmv dr or r patients receiving lymphocyte-depleting induction 4566. lung transplant recipients may benefit from pro- longed 1 year prophylaxis 4377. other groups are can- didates for preemptive therapy if an appropriate monitoring system is in place and patient compliance is adequate 66. the added benefit of monthly cmv hyper- immune globulin for 3-6 months in cardiac and lung recipients is not well studied with current antiviral agents.

sirolimus toxicity may cause diffuse interstitial disease often with superimposed infectious pneumonitis.pneumocystis jiroveci pneumoniaepidemiology the risk of infection with pcp is greatest in the first 6 months after transplantation  10 of unprophylaxed recipients and during periods of increased immunosuppression 169. lung transplant recipients retain lifelong risk of pcp.

low serum antibody levels correlate with an overall risk of infection but specific cutoff values and indications for replacement therapy are lacking 38. other measures of global immune function lack the desired predictive values for infectious risk 39. individ- ual drugs are associated with increased risk of certain infections table 3 40 combinations of agents may enhance risk or cause toxicity.

increasingly candidates for transplantation have multiple comorbidities that may require advanced cardiopulmonary supports ventricular assist devices extracorporeal circulation membrane oxygenation hemodialysis prolonged intubation antimicrobials or immunosuppressive therapies and are at increased risk for colonization by mdro.infection in organ transplantationnet state of immunosuppressionthe net state of immunosuppression is a conceptual measure of all factors contributing to the patient's risk of infection table 2 8. among these are the followingthe specific immunosuppressive therapy including dose duration and temporal sequence of agents-- intensive treatment of graft rejection poses greater acute risk than chronic immunosuppression.technical problems in the transplant procedure resulting in leaks blood lymph urine and fluid col- lections devitalized tissue and poor wound healing.

the greatest risk in transplant recipients is primary infection in immunologically naeurive seronegative recipients r  of seropositive organs d with up to a 91.9 incidence of viremia and 50-65 rate of symptomatic infection by 90 days posttransplant without prophylaxis 4755. in dr transplant recipients virus-specific cytotoxic t cell immunity may be impaired in the graft due to mhc mismatch between donor and recipient.

recent advances include the availability of international standards for quantitative molecular assays for common viruses demonstration of links between genetic polymorphisms in immune responses with the risk for specific infections and newer antimicrobial therapies including those for hep- atitis c virus hcv as well as the development of some detailed practice guidelines 1-4. challenges include the paucity of assays to assess risk for specific infections or graft rejection increasing antimicrobial resistance subop- timal screening paradigms for microbiologic evaluation of organ donors virus-associated malignancies and shifts in global patterns of infection e.g.

after transplantation ebv seronegative individuals are at risk for primary infection which is associated with greatly increased risk of ptld 8889.epidemiology ptld occurs in up to 20 of pediatric organ recipients but less than 1 of adults.

the risk of candida infection is increased in liverrecipients with choledochojejunostomy over duct-to-duct anastomoses and in pancreas transplantation notably with enteric drainage 141. other risk factors include kid- ney and liver allograft dysfunction intensive care unit stays vascular access catheters large volume blood transfusions re-exploration surgery after abdominal trans- plantation graft pancreatitis parenteral hyperalimenta- tion colonization and broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy 142. targeted prophylaxis has been applied to reduce candida infections in liver small bowel and pan- creas recipients.all cases of candidemia merit antifungal therapy in addi- tion to removal of vascular access catheters delayed therapy carries significant mortality 143144. candida retinal lesions may be due to endocarditis or endoph- thalmitis.

transplanta- tion 2001 71 1287-1294.florescu df kalil ac qiu f schmidt cm sandkovsky u. what is the impact of hypogammaglobulinemia on the rate of infections and survival in solid organ transplantation a meta- analysis am j transplant 2013 13 2601-2610.husain s raza k pilewski jm et al.

