it is hence tempting to speculate that inflammation induced changes of the intraluminal milieu within the intestinal tract predisposes the host for infection with obligate enteropathogenic species such as c. jejuni but also opportunistic pathogens including p. aeruginosa.our hypothesis is further supported by a study show- ing that a nonpathogenic intestinal e. coli isolate as well as the pathogen salmonella typhimurium were able to outcompete the endogenous microbiota of il-10-- mice a murine model of chronic colitis suggesting that growth of gram-negative enterobacteria is enhanced by host mediated intestinal inflammation and follow- ing modification of the composition of intestinal micro-biota  .

immediately before peroral t. gondii infection individual fecal samples were collected for quantitative cultural and molecular analyses of main intestinal bacterial communities.induction of acute ileitisin order to induce acute ileitis mice harboring a human intestinal microbiota were infected perorally with 50 cysts of t. gondii me49 strain by gavage as described previously   .pseudomonas aeruginosa infectionthree days following ileitis induction mice were perorally infected with 109 cfu of a mdr p. aeruginosa strain by gavage in a total volume of 0.3 ml pbs.

a. hence mdr p. aeruginosa infection did not exacerbate systemic pro-inflammatory sequelae of acute ileitis but resulted in lower anti-inflammatory responses.bacterial translocation following multidrug resistant p. aeruginosa infection of human microbiota-associated mice with acute ileitiswe next analyzed whether viable bacteria originating from the intestinal microbiota were abundant in extra- intestinal and systemic compartments of hma mice suf- fering from acute ileitis and whether mdr p. aeruginosa infection facilitated bacterial translocation.

one might have also expected comparable increases in systemic il-10 levels given that translocation of viable bacteria originating from the intestinal microbiota to systemic compartments such as spleen and blood had occurred more frequently in p. aeruginosa co-infected versus non-infected hma mice with acute ileitis.we were finally able to show that viable intestinal bac- teria were more frequently detected in systemic com- partments such as spleen and blood of p. aeruginosa infected as compared to uninfected hma mice with induced ileitis indicating that even though not other- wise determined in our study epithelial barrier leakage was supposably even more pronounced by p. aeruginosa co-challenge than by acute ileitis induction alone fur- ther facilitating bacterial translocation to extra-intes- tinal including systemic sites.

furthermore in a murine co-infection model intestinal colonization capacity of s. typhimurium was enhanced by inflammatory changes in the intesti- nal mucosa and dysbiosis elicited by plasmodium yoelii infection .given that the intestinal intraluminal milieu is deter- mined by a plethora of factors including the bacteria residing in the intestinal compartments we performed afig.

whereas viable intestinal bacteria were more frequently detected in systemic compartments such as spleen and cardiac blood of p. aeruginosa infected than uninfected mice at day 7 following ileitis induction p. aeruginosa infection did not exac- erbate systemic pro-inflammatory sequelae but resulted in lower il-10 serum levels.conclusion acute intestinal inflammation facilitates infection of the vertebrate host with mdr bacteria including p. aeruginosa and might also pose particularly hospitalized patients at risk for acquisition.

two-sided probability p values0.05 were considered significant.resultsacute ileitis induction facilitates multidrug resistant p. aeruginosa infection of human microbiota-associated mice the primary goal of our present study was to investi- gate the influence of acute intestinal inflammation on intestinal infection with mdr p. aeruginosa and itsfig.

since acute t. gondii induced inflammation might mask immunopathology caused by p. aeruginosa a subacute or chronic inflammation model might be better suited to investigate the potential role of p. aeruginosa infection in the aggravation of intestinal disease.keywords pseudomonas aeruginosa multidrug resistant gram-negative bacteria susceptibility to infection intestinal microbiota fecal transplantation human microbiota-associated mice toxoplasma gondii induced acute ileitis pro- inflammatory immune responses extra-intestinal and systemic sequelae of infection bacterial translocationcorrespondence department of microbiology and hygiene charite-university medicine berlin cc5 campus benjamin franklin fem garystr.

of note the bacterial strain displayed antimicrobial sensitivity to fosfomycin and colistin only.cultural analysis of the intestinal loads of p. aeruginosaon days 2 3 and 4 post p. aeruginosa infection individual fecal samples were homogenized in sterile pbs and serial dilutions streaked onto columbia agar supplementedwith 5 sheep blood oxoid germany and cetrimid agar oxoid and incubated in an aerobic atmosphere at 37 degc for at least 48 h to assess intestinal p. aeruginosa loads.clinical conditionsbody weights as well as macroscopic andor micro- scopic abundance of fecal blood were assessed in indi- vidual mice on a daily basis by the guajac method using haemoccult beckman coulterpcd germany.sampling proceduresmice were sacrificed 7 days after ileitis induction by iso- flurane treatment abbott germany.

when perorally infected with p. aeruginosa at day 3 post ileitis induction hma mice displayed higher intestinal p. aeruginosa loads as compared to hma mice without ileitis.

the presented results shed further light onto the interplay between mdr p. aeruginosa the host innate and adaptive immunity and human intestinal microbiota during acute small intestinal inflammation.methodsethical statementall animal experiments were conducted according to the european guidelines for animal welfare 201063eu with approval of the commission for animal experiments headed by the landesamt fur gesundheit und soziales lageso berlin registration numbers g009712 and g003915.

experiments were repeated at least twice.small intestinal lengths and histopathological scoressmall intestinal lengths were determined by measuring the distance from the duodenum leaving the stomach to the ileal-caecal transition.

the average number of positively stained cells within at least six high power fields hpf 0.287 mm2 400x mag-nification were determined by an independent blinded investigator.cultural survey of intestinal microbiota and bacterial translocationfor comprehensive quantitative survey of intestinal microbiota composition and translocation of viable bacteria to extra-intestinal compartments colonic and ileal luminal contents as well as ex vivo biopsiesderived from mln spleen liver and lung respectively were homogenized in sterile pbs and analyzed in serial dilutions on different solid culture media as described earlier   .

then main bacterial groups abundant in the murine and human intestinal microbiota were assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction qrt-pcr with species- genera- or group- specific 16s rrna gene primers tib molbiol ger- many as described previously    and numbers of 16s rrna gene copies per ng dna of each sample determined.interplay with the intestinal commensal microbiota and the immune system in the vertebrate host.

a. given that acute intestinal inflammation is associated with signifi- cant shortening of the inflamed gut   we meas- ured the small intestinal lengths of mice at necropsy.

