a predatory mite n. cucumeris from mass-production population b predatorymite from a laboratory population with disease symptoms c the prey mite t. putrescentiae population from laboratory culture without the presence of predatory mite tyro pure d prey mite from culture with the presence of predatory mite in mass rearing.from the 75 otus analyzed by metastats 10 otus had higher relative abundance in predatory mites compared with prey mites table .

a number of sequences analyzed across samples b species richness number of species-level otus across samples c inverse simpson diversity index comparing predatory vs. prey mites see table for description of samples.scientific reports i72i dol10.1038s41598-017-00046-64table 1. the list of otus in the samples of predatory neoseiulus cucumeris and prey tyrophagus putrescentiae mites and the results of random forest and metastats analyses describing the means of relative abundance of otus  for the samples of predatory and prey mites.

the microbiota of the prey mite t. putrescentiae and the predatory mite n. cucumeris consisted of core bacterial taxa present in all prey and predatory mite populations.this core microbiota comprised wolbachia cardinium bartonella-like blattabacterium-like solitalea-like brevibacterium staphylococcus spp.

no known acaropathogenic bacte- ria were identified in the prey or predatory mites either from the mass rearing or the laboratory population with disease symptoms table s1.bacterial microbiota comparisons n. cucumeris predator vs. t. putrescentiae factitious prey.

it is important to highlight that the analyses of differences in the bacterial composition pcoa and population level analyses showed that the differences between predatory and prey mites were lower than among the two prey mite populations examined.

predatory and prey mites from treatment 1 were sampled one week after the addition of the prey mites.dna extraction from mites.

openreceived 4 september 2016accepted 19 december 2016 published xx xx xxxxcomparison of bacterial microbiota of the predatory mite neoseiulus cucumeris acari phytoseiidae and its factitious prey tyrophagus putrescentiae acari acaridaeapostolos pekas1 eric palevsky2 jason c. sumner3 m. alejandra perotti4 marta nesvorna5  jan hubert 5neoseiulus cucumeris is a predatory mite used for biological control of arthropod pests.

the following taxa were associated with predatory mites cardinium otu12 bacillus otu21 and staphylococcus otus2 7 19 and 23.venn diagrams show that 11 otus were shared by prey mites and 16 otus by predatory mites.

the differences in diversity of microbiota among saprophagous compared to predatory groups are known in insectsand a similar situation is expected in these mites.the otu similar to s. kloosii accounted for a large proportion of the total bacterial sequences isolated from both n. cucumeris 72 mass-reared 61 lab-reared and t. putrescentiae populations 40 the latter fromfigure 3. principal coordinate analyses pcoa of microbiota in the samples of predatory n. cucumeris and prey t. putrescentiae mites.

bb1-3  n. cucumeris laboratory bb4-6  n. cucumeris mass-reared tyro1-3  t.putrescentiae laboratory culture without the presence of predatory mite pure and tyro4-9  from n. cucumerismass-rearing the samples are described in table  the otus are identified in table s1.figure 4. qualitative comparison of shared and unique bacterial taxa belonging to predatory and prey mite microbiota by venn diagram.

the observed microbiota of the predatory mite n. cucumeris and the prey mite t. putrescentiae consisted of intracellular symbionts as well as gutenviron- mental bacteria as it is reported for other species of predatory or saprophagous mites.

similarly previous studies comparing the bacterial microbiota of m. occidentalis and its spider mite prey tetranychus urticae koch acari tetranychidae provided evidence for a shared microbiota between the predator and the prey.

this is supported by differences between predator and prey in relative numbers of blattabacterium-like and solitalea-like symbiotic bacteria with a higher relative abundance in prey mites.

significant differences were detected between the bacterial communities of prey mites without predators and prey mites reared withn.

prey and predator andii origin of mite population i.e predator with and without sick symptoms and prey from mass rearing facility and without any predator table s2.

