More recently a host of studies have shown that gut-brain connectivity is in fact bidirectional and these studies are beginning to elucidate the complex ways in which the gut microbiota may affect brain function Figure 1.One key pathway through which the gut microbiota may affect brain function is modulation of the autonomic nervous system including via activation of the vagus nerve 4.

Furthermore these molecules may also activate inflammatory processes.The microbiota may also influence the brain through neurotransmitters and neuropeptides.

Moreover because the underlying neurobiology has remained so elusive current treatments focus largely on symptom management rather than addressing any core underlying biological process.In this issue of Biological Psychiatry Vuong and Hsiao 7 review a fascinating range of findings indicating that gut microbiota dysbiosis may be associated with various aspects of ASD--and in ways that reflect the known pathways through which the microbiome may influence brain development and functioning.

However there is now evidence that the gut microbiota may begin even earlier as both placenta and meconium have been found to have their own microbiomes even in premature births 2.

The decrease in the diversity of the microbiota in older adults may predispose them to conditions such as C. difficile infection.

While gut bacteria can affect vagal firing the mechanism through which this occurs is not entirely understood.Another pathway through which the gut microbiota may affect brain function is via microbial signaling molecules including short-chain fatty acids SCFAs that are produced by gut microorganisms 1.

Changes in the gut microbiota may cause gut epithelium to become leaky allowing more of these molecules to cross into the blood stream.

This process may occur via SCFAs increasing tryptophan hydroxylase expression 1.

However other microbiota metabolites may be involved and there is also evidence of de novo production of serotonin by bacteria at least in culture 5.

This may occur via the production and release of cytokines such as interleukins-6 and -1b by immune cells in the GI system 1.

