shotgun sequencing was performed using illumina hiseq 2500 platform according to the recommendations of the manufacturer.kazan russian federationdata accessibility the data is deposited in the european nucleotide archive project id prjeb18265 url .value of the datathe data can be used to assess the antibiotic-induced gut dysbiosis in a cultivation-independent manner via the changes in the relative abundance of microbial taxa and genes.using the metagenomic datasets corresponding to three consequent time points - before imme- diately after and 1 month after the end of the treatment - it is possible to analyze the temporal dynamics and resilience of gut microbial ecosystem.by calculating the relative abundance of the genes conferring antibiotic resistance from the data researchers can evaluate the resistome of gut microbiota and its changes during and after the antibiotic intake.identification of specific changes in gut microbiota composition as the result of h. pylori eradication using the presented data opens the way to designing new approaches to the alleviation of the side effects of the treatment.datathe presented dataset contains 10 shotgun human gut metagenomes assessed from stool samples from the patients with helicobacter pylori infection.

shotgun metagenomic sequencing was performed on hiseq 2500 platform illumina usa according to the manufacturer's recommendations using the followingreagent kits hiseq rapid pe cluster kit v2 hiseq rapid sbs kit v2 500 cycles hiseq rapid pe flowcell v2.

exclusion criteria malignancies inability of the patient to follow the study procedures concomitant diseases possibly influencing the gut microbiota composition including inflammatory bowel diseases malabsorption due to small intestine diseases or pancreatic insufficiency and other diseases abdominal surgery excluding appendectomy intake of medica- tions immunomodulators corticosteroids non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs antibiotics pre- and probiotics - for 3 months prior to the inclusion proton pump inhibitors bismuth-containing medications - for 2 weeks prior to inclusion alcohol or drug abuse decompensated chronic dis- eases infectious diseases including hiv viral hepatitis tuberculosis and others presence of diarrhea bowel movement frequency 43 times a day for at least 3 consequent days during the last month pregnancy or breastfeeding.sample collection and metagenomic sequencingstool samples were collected from the subjects stored and subject to dna extraction as described before .

9 dolgoprudny moscow region 141700 russiac kazan state medical university butlerova 49 kazan 420012 russiad kazan federal university kremlyovskaya 18 kazan 420008 russiaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 10 december 2016 received in revised form29 december 2016accepted 11 january 2017available online 17 january 2017keywordsgut microbiota metagenome antibiotic therapy helicobacter pyloria b s t r a c t antibiotic therapy can lead to the disruption of gut microbiota com- munity with possible negative outcomes for human health.

the samples were subject to shotgun whole-genome metagenomic sequencing using illumina hiseq platform.

the changes in taxonomic and functional composition of microbiota in patients can be assessed using shotgun metagenomic sequencing.

data in brief 11 2017 68-7169specifications tablesubject areabiologymore specific subject areabacterial metagenomicstype of datatext files sequenceshow data was acquireddna sequencing using illumina hiseq 2500 platformdata formatrawexperimental factorsexperimental featuresdata source locationdna extracted from stool samplestwo micrograms of total dna per sample were used to create barcoded paired-end sequencing libraries.

ten stool samples were collected from 4 patients with helicobacter pylori infection before and directly after the h. pylori eradication course.

one of the diseases for which the treatment scheme commonly included anti- biotic intake is helicobacter pylori infection.

the patients for whom the samples were collected at three time points include p3 and p4.patients inclusion and exclusion criteriageneral inclusion criteria males and females age 18-75 years with performed upper gi endo- scopy and h. pylori-positive status 1 month prior to the inclusion into the study according to any of the h. pylori detection methods.

barcoded paired-end libraries were created from 2 mg of total dna for each sample according to the manufacturer's recommendations using nebnext dna library prep master mix set for illumina new england biolabs usa and nebnext multiplex oligos for illumina 96 index pri- mers new england biolabs usa kits.

in time point column the numbers show the point of sample collection 1 - before the treatment 2 - immediately after the end of the treatment 3 - one month after the end of the treatment.

data articledata on gut metagenomes of the patients with helicobacter pylori infection before and after the antibiotic therapyoksana e. glushchenko  andrei e. samoilov  evgenii i. olekhnovich  boris a. kovarsky  alexander v. tyakht  alexander v. pavlenko vlad v. babenko  andrei k. larin  elena s. kostryukova  maja v. malakhova  elena n. ilina  rustem a. abdulkhakov  dilyara i. safina  tatiana v. grigoryeva sayar r. abdulkhakov  vadim m. govorun a federal research and clinical centre of physical-chemical medicine malaya pirogovskaya 1amoscow 119435 russiab moscow institute of physics and technology institutskiy per.

additionally for two of the subjects the samples were collected 1 month after the end of the treatment.

the patients were enrolled in university hospital of kazan federal university former republican clinical hospital 2 of the ministry of healthcare of republic of tatarstan.70o.e.

