a recent review of associations between migraine headache and gastrointestinal disorders has demonstrated that people who frequently experience gastrointestinal disorders have a higher prevalence of headaches 2. moreover infantile colic has been known as an early-life expression of migraine headache with a maternal history of migraine predisposing to an approximately 2.6 times higher likelihood of colic than controls 3. further children with migraine headache are more likely to have experienced colic compared to controls 4. other studies have suggested that migraine headache is significantly associated with inflammatory bowel disease and celiac disease 56 however the specific relationship between migraine headache and gastrointestinal microbiology primarily pertaining to intestinal bacteria remains unclear.

the underlying working mechanistic links between migraine and gastrointestinal diseases may include increased intestinal epithelial permeability and inflammation.objective this review presents an overview of the relationship between gut microbiota and brain function especially with regard to migraine headache.study design literature review.setting anesthesia and operation center department of anesthesiology chinese pla general hospital.methods the present investigation included a pubmed search using the following terms migraine headache gut microbiota brain function and probiotics.results in this literature review we mainly discussed the relationship between gut microbiota and brain function especially with regard to migraine headache.

the present review aims to discuss the relationship between gut microbiota and brain function as well as the influence of probiotic supplements on the migraine headache patient and potential mechanisms underlying such influence.gut microbiota and brain functionthe human gut contains over a thousand known bacterial species with bacteroidetes and firmicutesphy- la being the predominant strains 7. the colonization of gut microbiota begins when an infant is born whereas the diversity and activity of gut bacteria de- pends on both genetic and environmental factors.

results from a randomized controlled trial conducted in healthy volunteers have suggested that probiotics could improve the gut epithelial bar- rier via modulation of the expression of tight junction proteins in the gut epithelial layer 23.as probiotics have been able to repair increased intestinal permeability and maintain the gut barrier function these microorganisms may relieve migraine headache through improved gut epithelial permeabil- ity in patients.

large-scale randomized placebo-controlled studies are warranted in the future to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of probiotics in patients with migraine headache.key words migraine headache gut microbiota brain function probioticspain physician 2017 20e251-e255igraineheadacheaffecting approximately 15 of the global population is a common chronicdisorder 1. patients with migraine headache usuallysuffer from moderate to severe episodes of headache lasting several hours to days.

recent studies have shown that gut microbiota can mediate or modulate brain development through the gut-brain axis 8. the major anatomical connections between the brain and gut system involve brain tissues the spinal cord vagal and spinal nerves gut tissues microbiota and their metabolites residing in the gut and the en- docrine and immune systems.

thus a significant relationship has been found between migraine headache and various inflammatory diseases including gastrointestinal disorders obesity allergies and asthma.evidence from a clinical trial among patients with migraine headache who also had irritable bowel syn- drome reported on the estimated influence of a dietary intervention lasting 6 weeks with significant improve- ment in migraine headache attack counts duration and maximum severity.

after 3 months of effective treatment the mean quality of life score of these pa- tients with migraine headache significantly increased to 76 and 60 experienced near-total alleviation of migraine headache attacks with quality of life scores ranging between 80 and 100. in a new open-label pilot study in migraine headache volunteers partici- pants received 2 g of multispecies probiotic products daily for 12 weeks 25. the probiotic products con- tained the effective and beneficial bacterial strains bifidobacterium bifidum w23 bifidobacterium lactis w52 lactobacillus acidophilus w37 lactobacillus brevis w63 lactobacillus casei w56 lactobacillus sali- varius w24 lactococcus lactis w19 and lactococcus lactis w58.

thus far no randomized controlled clinical trials have been published where migraine headache patients were treated with probiotic products table 1.e253pain physician february 2017 20e251-e255table 1. the involved mechanisms of migraine action intervened by probiotics in the published studies.conclusions similar to migraine headache disorders of the brain involving depression and anxiety have been demonstrated to be associated with increased gut permeability.

the positive effects of normal gut microbiota on health in- clude maintenance of the integrity of the gut epithelial barrier and gut mobility regulation of polysaccharide degradation and improved nutrient absorption.

disruption of this symbiotic relationship impairs integrity of the epithelial barrier and mucosal immune function.increasingly recent evidence has demonstratedthat gut microbiota could indeed affect brain function 910. evidence from a murine study suggested gut microbiota could convert complex carbohydrates into short-chain fatty acids such as butyric acid which regu- late structure and function of the blood-brain barrier 11. moreover intestinal microbiota have been found to directly alter neurotransmitter levels indicating the possibility of established communication between bacteria and neurons 12. metabolites from gut mi- crobiota promote production of 5-hydroxytryptamine by intestinal epithelial cells and levels of serotonin are lower in the blood of germ-free animals compared with normal controls.

the potential effects of probiotics supplement on migraine headache were also included.limitations there is limited evidence from clinical studies of the positive effects of probiotics in patients with migraine headache.

patients with migraine headache more frequently suffer from gastrointestinal diseases than healthy controls and patients with gastrointestinal disease more often have migraines headache when compared to normal controls.

at baseline and after 12 weeks of probiotic treatment participants completed 2 headache questionnaires the migraine disability assessment scale midas and the henry ford hospital headache disability inventory hdi to assess the intensity of the migraine attack.

the global burden of headache a docu- mentation of headache prevalence and disability worldwide.

