clinical infectious diseases correspondenc e fecal microbiota transplantation do we need harmonizationto the editor--we read with great in- terest the study published by hota et al 1. in their single-center open-label randomized controlled trial the authors compared the effectiveness of 14 days of oral vancomycin followed by a single fe- cal microbiota transplantation fmt by enema to a 6-week taper of oral vanco- mycin in patients experiencing acute epi- sodes of recurrent clostridium difficile in- fection.

for permissions e-mail doi 10.1093cidcix092fecal microbiota transplant vs oral vancomycin taper important undiscussed limitationsto the editor--i read with interest the report by hota et al 1 who found that a course of tapered oral vancomycin was as effective as a single fecal microbiota trans- plantation fmt delivered by enema for recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

the longer time frame for fmt preparation raises the issue of potential alteration of the har- vested microbiota over such a long period of time.

conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the content of the manu- script have been disclosed.tatiana galperine12 harry sokol23 and benoit guery241infection control program geneva university hospitals switzerland 2french group of faecal microbiota transplantation and 3gastroenterology and nutrition department ap-hp saint-antoine hospital and upmc paris 06 university paris france and 4infectious diseases servicecentre hospitalier universitaire vaudois and university oflausanne switzerlandreferenceshota ss sales v tomlinson g et al.

randomised clinical trial faecal microbiota trans- plantation by colonoscopy vs. vancomycin for the treatment of recurrent clostridium difficile infec- tion.

frozen vs fresh fecal microbiota transplantation and clinical resolution of diarrhea in patients with recurrent clostridium difficile infection a randomized clini- cal trial.

effect of fecal microbiota transplantation on recurrence in mul- tiply recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

recovery of the gut microbiome following fecal microbiota transplantation.

