clinical infectious diseases correspondenc e fecal microbiota transplantation do we need harmonizationto the editor--we read with great in- terest the study published by hota et al 1. in their single-center open-label randomized controlled trial the authors compared the effectiveness of 14 days of oral vancomycin followed by a single fe- cal microbiota transplantation fmt by enema to a 6-week taper of oral vanco- mycin in patients experiencing acute epi- sodes of recurrent clostridium difficile in- fection.

oral vanco- mycin followed by fecal transplantation versus tapering oral vancomycin treatment for recurrent clostridium difficile infection an open-label ran- domized controlled trial.

duodenal infusion of donor feces for recur- rent clostridium difficile.

fecal micro- biota transplant for relapsing clostridium difficile infection using a frozen inoculum from unrelated donors a randomized open-label controlled pilot study.

randomised clinical trial faecal microbiota trans- plantation by colonoscopy vs. vancomycin for the treatment of recurrent clostridium difficile infec- tion.

frozen vs fresh fecal microbiota transplantation and clinical resolution of diarrhea in patients with recurrent clostridium difficile infection a randomized clini- cal trial.

effect of fecal microbiota transplantation on recurrence in mul- tiply recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

for permissions e-mail doi 10.1093cidcix092fecal microbiota transplant vs oral vancomycin taper important undiscussed limitationsto the editor--i read with interest the report by hota et al 1 who found that a course of tapered oral vancomycin was as effective as a single fecal microbiota trans- plantation fmt delivered by enema for recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

this is also supported by the punch-cd trial which found a success rate of 51.6 after a single administration of fmt by enema 4. as such the assumed success rate of 92 used in the statistical calculations of the published trial is not supported by current literature and inflates the results in favor of vancomycin taper.second table 1 in the article presents p values between randomized and non- randomized patients 1. the clinical use of this analysis is highly questionable as the primary outcome was to describe differences in recurrence rates between patients who were randomized to fmt and those randomized to vancomycin taper 1. when the randomized popu- lation is compared it becomes important to note that patients who were assigned to the fmt group were older 75.7 years vs 69.6 years had used other antibiotics within 3 months of enrollment 100 vs 83.3 and were on proton pump inhibitors 46.7 vs 41.7 1. these are known risk factors for c. difficile infec- tion 5 6 and would favor recurrence in the fmt arm.other factors that must be taken into consideration include the fact that 37.5 of patients in the fmt group received less than 40 g of stool in the fmt prepa- ration 1. while 50 g of stool has been targeted in some recent literature 4 7 most randomized trials target 100-150 g of stool for fmt administration 3 8 9. additionally enema retention time which could potentially have some corre- lation with success 4 was not disclosedin this analysis.

finally day 0 in the van- comycin taper arm was defined as day 14 of vancomycin therapy this allowed for patients in the vancomycin group to receive therapy active against c. difficile for 28 days into the follow-up period.while the prospective randomized trial design to evaluate a previously unanswered question brought initial appeal the unaddressed limitations lead to misleading interpretation and conclu- sions.

oral vancomy- cin followed by fecal transplant versus tapering oral vancomycin treatment for recurrent clostridium difficile infection an open-label randomized con- trolled trial.

fecal micro- biota transplantation for clostridium difficile infec- tion a systematic review.

frozen vs fresh fecal microbiota transplantation and clinical resolution of diarrhea in patients with recurrent clostridium difficile infection a randomized clini- cal trial.

safety and durability of rbx2660 microbiota suspension for recurrent clostridium difficile infection results of the punch cd study.

clinical practice guidelines for clostridium difficile infec- tion in adults 2010 update by the society for healthcare epidemiology of america shea and the infectious diseases society of america idsa.

