meanwhile it is important to explore if e. faecalis uc-100 administration could cause alteration of the composition or activity of the host normal microbiota to exclude the possibility of the occurrence of undesirable microbiota changes before we applicate the e. faecalis uc-100 in pig production.since dietary supplementation of 200 gt e. faecalis uc-100 showed the benefits similar to antibiotics supple- mentation from the previous manuscript samples from the e. faecalis uc-100 group200 gt the basal diet group and the positive control diet group collected on d 0 14 and 28 of feeding were used to determine alteration of the distal gut microbiota population in response to the treatment with e. faecalis substitute for antibiotics.

twenty-one phyla and 137 genera were shared by all pigs whereas 12 genera were uniquely identified in the e. faecalis group on d 14 and 28. bacterial abundance and diversity in the e. faecalis group bacterial diversity in the antibiotic group especially abundances of fibrobacteres phylum and 12 genera in the e. faecalis group and antibiotics group were lower than that in the basal diet group on d 28. these results showed that microbial shifts in the porcine gut in response to diets containing e. faecalis were similar to the response to which containing antibiotics.the large and diverse gut microbiota plays an important role in nutrient digestion and health of the host.

these results were sim-ilar to previous studieswhere they showed that firmicutes and bacteroidetes were the most dominant phylatable 4. the bacterial abundances of 12 distinct genera were compared among the basal diet group the enterococcus faecalis group and the antibiotic group on d 28 of feeding and these genera shifts caused by the enterococcus faecalis group was similar with the antibiotic group.table 5. the bacterial abundances of 9 distinct genera were compared among the basal diet group the enterococcus faecalis group and the antibiotic group on d 28 of feeding whereas these genera shifts caused by the enterococcus faecalis group was different with the antibiotic group.in pig fecal samples.

p  0.05 p  0.01.the abundance of 12 genera acholeplasma arcobacter caldicoprobacter desulfotomaculum ignatzschineria ksa1 leptolyngbya natronincolaanaerovirgula pseudomonas pseudoramibactereubacterium tepidimicrobium and tissierellasoehngenia in pigs from both the e. faecalis group and the antibiotic group were lower p  0.05 than that in the basal diet group on d 28 of feeding while no difference in bacterial abundance of these genera were detected between the e. faecalis group and the antibiotic group tthe abundance of 5 genera anaerococcus fibrobacter megasphaera selenomonas and sharpea changed p  0.05 in pigs from the e. faecalis group than that in the basal diet group and the abundance of 4 genera bacillus sphaerochaeta vibrio and zhouia changed p  0.05 in pigs from the antibiotic group than that in the basal diet group on d 28 t5.

and the microbial shifted in the porcine gut in response to diets fed e. faecalis were similar to the response to dietary supplemen- tation of antibiotics indicating that e. faecalis uc-100 could be a potential alternative to the use of antibiotics in pigs to promote health and growth of host.in addition the bacterial abundance of 4 genera including fibrobacter and megasphaera were decreased andselenomonas were increased only in the pigs from the e. faecalis group compared with the basal diet group on d28.

the lack of an effect on enterococcus genera is probably due to the insufficient contribu- tion of the enterococcus faecalis strain as e. faecalis uc-100 after intake still accounted for a minor part of the enterococcus community in our samples.conclusionthe abundance and diversity of the gut microbiota in pigs of the e. faecalis group and the bacterial diversity in the antibiotic group were inhibited on d 28 of feeding.

because 200 gt e. faecalis uc-100 showed the benefits similar to antibiotic supplementation from the previous manuscript only 36 fecal samples from the e. faecalis uc-100 group200 gt the basal diet group and the positive control diet group collected on d 0 14 and 28 of feeding were used in the current study based on the objective of investing microflora changes in the porcine distal gut in response to the treatment with e. faecalis uc-100 as alternatives to antibiotics.

seeking effective probiotic bacteria as an alternative to antibiotics and untangling how these probiotics might affect host intestinal microbiota and immunity to improve the health and performance are essential steps for the successful application of probiotics in pig production.enterococcus faecalis e. faecalis a lactic acid bacterium and common inhabitant in the gut is one of the most common species of enterococci.

however limited studies are available demonstrating the application of the e. faecalis strains as alternatives to antibiotics in pig production.previously our researchshowed that weaned pigs fed a diet supplemented with e. faecalis uc-100 200 gt  1 x 1010 cfug had an increased body weight gain increased by 30.9 on d 28 of feeding and a decreased feed to gain ratio decreased by 9.2 on d 28 of feeding and incidence of diarrhea decreased by 58.3 on d 28 of feeding compared with weaned pigs fed a basal diet whereas no difference was observed compared with weaned pigs fed a diet supplemented with antibiotics bacitracin zinc 40 gt aureomycin 75 gt and colistin 20 gt.

weighted unifrac distances were used to estimate b-diversity and to compare the three diet groups on d 14 2ab and c and d 28 of feeding e and f. the pcoa plot of the weighted unifrac distances showed that the three diet groups did not form distinct clusters on either d 14 or 28 of feeding although the antibiotic group microbiota tended p  0.063 to separate from the enterococcus faecalis group microbiota along principal coordinate 3 on d 14 and c.shifts in community membership after e. faecalis treatment.

the bacterial abundance of fibrobacteres in pigs from the e. faecalis group was lower p  0.01 than that in the basal diet group on d 28 of feeding while no difference in bacterial abundance of fibrobacteres was detected between the e. faecalis group and the antibiotic group 3ab.

however no difference in bacterial abundance of these 9 genera was detected between the e. faecalis group and the antibiotic group t5.discussiondietary supplementation of e. faecalis strains as a probiotic has become one of effective alternatives to the use of antibiotics to increase health and growth performance of pigsas it has been shown that probiotics can affect gut microbiota which plays an important role in health and nutrient digestion in pigs.

because many e. faecalis strains can inhibit pathogen by producing bacteriocin we try to study if e. faecalis uc-100 administration could induce alteration of the gut microflora to directly or indirectly impact porcine health and performance.

b the abundances of fibrobacteres was compared among 3 different phases of experiment in the basal diet group the enterococcus faecalis group and the antibiotic group respectively.table 1. unique genera in the basal diet group the enterococcus faecalis group and the antibiotic group on d 14 of feeding.result is consistent with previous study.

whereas the increase of bacterial diversitytable 2. unique genera in the basal diet group the enterococcus faecalis group and the antibiotic group on d 28 of feeding.table 3. the bacterial abundances of 13 distinct genera were compared among 3 phases d 0 14 and 28 of feeding in the basal diet group.and abundance were inhibited in pigs from the e. faecalis group compared with the basal diet group on d 28 of feeding.

