a view of the back reef pool locations hv and mv pool on american samoa and sampling design of the reciprocal transplantation experiment of fragmented colonies of acropora hyacinthus between the pools b temperature profiles measured in the hv black and mv grey pools over time modified following oliver and palumbi and short-term heat stress experiment and sampling c non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds of bacterial community composition after transplantation between hv and mv pools each symbol represents a sample symbol shapes denote pool of origin circles 14 hv pool triangles 14 mv pool symbol colours denote pool of destination orange 14 hv pool blue 14 mv pool ellipses are drawn around each group's centroid ellipse lines dashed for cross-transplants continuous for back- transplants filled ellipse for significant pool-of-destination groups anosim r 14 0.122 po0.001 d 16s rrna sequence-based microbial community composition of reciprocally transplanted colonies between hv and mv pool locations on the bacterial family level.

hv highly variable pool mv moderately variable pool 05c and 20c 14 5 and 20 h control c short-term heat stress experiment 05h and 20h 14 5 and 20 h treatment h short-term heat stress experiment.community in the hv pool was characterized by a consistent set of microbial taxa across all control and heat treatments that differed from that of the less variable cooler mv pool supplementary data 3. about two-thirds of the indicator otus in the hv pool belonged to the class alphaproteobacteria the remaining otus belonged to the classes cytophagia deltaproteobacteria phycisphaerae spirochaetes and only one otu belonged to the gammaproteobacteria 2a.

reciprocal transplantation of coral colonies between the two thermally distinct environments strikingly demonstrated that coral microbial communities fully adjusted to the new environmental conditions 17 months after transplantation the microbiomes of non-native corals transplanted into each pool could not be distinguished from the microbiomes of the native corals in the same pool anosim hv pool r 0.013 mv pool r 0.005 both p40.05.

hv highly variable pool mv moderately variable pool 05c and 20c 14 5 and 20 h control c short-term heat stress experiment 05h and 20h 14 5 and 20 h treatment h short-term heat stress experiment.

among all functional traits identified using predictive metagenomic analysis 128 functional traits and 28 proteins distinguished the microbial communities between both pools supplementary data 5.functional profiles of microbial communities were distinct between hv and mv corals 1. at large hv coral microbiomes were characterized by enrichment of functions related to metabolism supplementary data 5. at the level of proteins 1 several functions related to carbohydrate metabolism were enriched in hv corals such as multiple proteins of the sugar transport system specifically three fructose transport proteins one ribose transport protein and a fucose mutarotase enzyme 1. other enriched proteins in hv coral microbiomes included the nitrogen-fixation protein nifw the reactive oxygen species-scavenger ferredoxin and the bacterial chaperonin groes 1. only three functions were enriched in mv coral microbiomes two proteins aiding the transfer of functional groups between molecules and a bacterial exonuclease 1.bacterial taxa as indicators of coral heat tolerance.

nevertheless while we did not transfer microbiomes between hv and mv corals the long-termtransplantation effectively resulted in hv corals harbouring an mv microbiome and mv corals harbouring an hv microbiome associated with higher and lower susceptibility to coral bleaching respectively.taxonomy-based functional profiling of the distinct microbial communities of hv and mv corals provided insight into the associated cellular processes underlying the differences in the coral heat stress response.

in the mv pool temperatures range between 26 and 33 degc but rarely exceed 32 degc while in the hv pool temperatures are more extreme fluctuating between25 and 35 degc and regularly exceeding the local bleaching threshold of 30 degc 16 1. in each pool at least eight colonies were sampled and fragmented into eight pieces each to control for host genotype.

corals in the same pool harbour the same microbiome irrespective of their pool of origin colonies are referred to as hv and mv corals according to their pool of destination in the following.

surculosa from the south lagoon of ofu island american samoa 14deg11's 169deg36'w were collected from each of two locations withdifferent natural temperature regimes an hv pool and an mv pool in july 2011. the colonies were fragmented into 240 nubbins and distributed on 12 egg-crate platforms with the same 20 genotypes per platform 10 genotypes from each pool environment.

a highly variable hv pool and a moderately variable mv pool although under heat stress mv corals bleached irrespective of which symbiont typethey harboured.

5 and 20 h controls and 5 h heat stress revealed that microbial communities of corals from the hv pool had no distinct bacterial indicator taxa while the same treatment group from the mv pool had 10 indicator otus that were characteristic of the heat-induced microbial shift in these more susceptible corals 2b.

experimental replacement of obligate symbionts from corals in the hv pool to corals in the mv pool with a subsequent demonstration of acquired heat tolerance would ultimately demonstrate the effect of host-associated bacteria onhost ecology.

this observation relates well with the significantly higher abundance of rhodospirillaceae in the hv pool and the identification of indicator bacteria from the genus inquilinus in the hv pool and thus suggests a possible role of rhodospirillaceae in the thermal tolerance of the corals.

samples were collected after 5 h to capture the early onset of heat stress and again after 20 h to coincide with the onset of visually detected bleaching.coral-associated microbial communities responded to short- term heat stress within 20 h anosim r 0.093 po0.001 1. however the thermal environment in which the corals spent 17 months prior to short-term heat exposure determined the microbial response to heat stress.

at the same time cross-transplanted fragments were significantly different from their back-trans- planted genet counterparts anosim hv pool r 0.149 po0.005 mv pool r 0.184 po0.001.to test for co-variation of coral host genotypes and bacterial symbionts across environments that would point towards a relationship between host genetic variance and bacterial association we tested whether distinct genotypes ofa.

