assembled a reference genome of p. malariae from clinically isolated parasites and they manually curated two draft genomes for both species of p. ovale phylogenetic analysis provided insights into the evolution of the plasmodium genus and species differentiation.

however when and how microbial community structure and function are established in early life have remained elusive.

carried out a large population-based cohort study of maternal-infant pairs to determine the composition and metabolic function of the early neonatal microbiota and up to 6 weeks after delivery across several body sites including stool oral gingiva nares the skin and vagina.

the neonatal microbiota was sparsely populated and predominantly comprised taxa of the maternal skin and vaginal microbiota.

in addition the microbial community function had expanded and diversified.

finally although patterns of microbial composition in neonates were influenced by mode of delivery at birth these differences were not present in the infants at 6 weeks of age which suggests that the maturation of the infant microbiota is mainly driven by body site and not by mode of delivery.original article chu d. n. et al.

investigating host-specific adaptations they report that p. malariae expresses a family of surface proteins that have structural similaritiesto a protein in plasmodium falciparum that is essential for erythrocyte invasion.

plasmodium malariae and p. ovale genomes provide insights into malaria parasite evolution.

these macrophage-rich structures are formed to restrict the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis however macrophage necrosis in granulomas can facilitate pathogen growth.

tracked infection outcomes in primary human macrophages in vitro using time-lapse microscopy and found that m. tuberculosis induced macrophage deathdependent on the number of internalized bacteria.

macrophage death did not result in bacterial clearance and instead m. tuberculosis grew faster in dead cells.

intracellular growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis after macrophage cell death leads to serial killing of host cells.

research highlights nature reviews microbiology  published online 13 feb 2017in briefmicrobiom egetting organized early in lifein adults distinct microbial communities inhabit different body sites and exert site-specific metabolic functions.

maturation of the infant microbiome community structure and function across multiple body sites and in relation to mode of delivery.

2017parasite evol ut ion adding a piece to the puzzlegenome-based studies increase our understanding of parasite evolution and host adaptation but there was a lack of genetic information for plasmodium malariae and two plasmodium ovale species which can cause human malaria but are found less often than other species.

