prospective randomised controlled study evaluating early modification of oral microbiota following admission to the intensive care unit and oral hygiene with chlorhexidinefelipe francisco tuon oleg gavrilko saulo de almeida eigi ricardo sumithiago alberto jaime luis rocha edvaldo antonio rosaa school of medicine pontificia universidade catolica do parana curitiba brazilb division of infectious diseases universidade federal do parana curitiba brazilc division of infectious and parasitic diseases hospital universitario evangelico de curitiba curitiba brazila r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 18 july 2016received in revised form 19 november 2016 accepted 2 december 2016available online 20 february 2017keywords chlorhexidine microbiota oral hygieneintensive care unit mechanical ventilation infectiona b s t r a c tobjectives chlorhexidine chx is the most commonly used oral hygiene product for the prevention of ventilator-associated pneumonia vap in patients undergoing mechanical ventilation mv.

1. species identified from cultures of the oral mucosa oral and dental plaque teeth of patients subjected to oral hygiene with chlorhexidine chx or placebo.

the occurrence of mrsa and even carbapenemase- producing enterobacteriaceae was identified in the initial sample.table 2comparison of the microbiological profiles obtained from the oral mucosa om swabs or dental plaque dp of patients subjected to oral hygiene with chlorhexidine chx or placebo.gram-negative bacillitotal72117625889651.85 0.85-2.300.296colonisation may occur during admission to the emergency room or from previous medical care .

the aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence of pathogenic bacteria associated with vap and the coverage of dp within the oral cavity in patients administered chx.methods this was a prospective randomised controlled double-blind study in patients n  16 under mv who were mouth-rinsed with either chx or placebo.

microbiology samples were collected from the oral mucosa om and dp after admission to the icu and on days 3 5 7 and 10. minimum inhibitory concentrations mics and minimum bactericidal concentrations mbcs of chx were determined.results upon admission the occurrence of multidrug-resistant mdr bacteria including carbapenem- resistant klebsiella pneumoniae was reported.

tuon.of oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal secretions accumulating over the orotracheal tube balloon .the oral microbiota of patients in the icu differs from that of the healthy population.

for instance after 48 h of hospitalisation there is a shift in the composition of the oral microbiota from one showing a predominance of normal gram-positive bacilli to one that has a prevalence of gram-negative bacilli associated with vap .

in addition the normal dental plaque will also act as a natural reservoir for these bacteria .several studies have shown that maintenance of oral hygiene in patients under mv can reduce the rate of vap .

chlorhexidine chx has been the most commonly used product for oral hygiene.

published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.was to evaluate the coverage of dental plaque and the incidence of pathogenic bacteria associated with vap in the oral cavity of patients mouth-rinsed with either chx or placebo during their- admission to the icu.

in the chx group patients were subjected to oral washing with 15 ml of 2 chx digluconate by a trained nursery team.

the chx solution was gently brushed into the gum oral mucosa and tongue two times daily until icu discharge.

in the placebo group patients underwent mouth- washing with a 0.9 nacl solution.microbiology samplessamples were collected from the oral mucosa om and dental plaque dp by curettage with a brush.

the first sample was collected immediately after admission to the icu and subsequent samples were collected on days 3 5 7 and 10. samples were collected 6 h after the routine oral hygiene and were immediately plated for bacterial identification.

the level oftable 1clinical characteristics and culture results of the oral mucosa om and dental plaque dp of patients admitted to the intensive care unit over different days of mechanical ventilation.cci charlson comorbidity index caz ceftazidime van vancomycin cfz cefazolin mem meropenem cro ceftriaxone amk amikacin col colistin cip ciprofloxacin tzp piperacillintazobactam mrsa methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus kpc klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase-producing bacteria crab carbapenem- resistant acinetobacter baumannii cesp citrobacter enterobacter serratia or providencia crpa carbapenem-resistant pseudomonas aeruginosa prot proteus spp.

