approximately 10 of people will have a urinary stone during their lifetime 1. the united states health care burden from usd is immense with 185000 hospitalizations 2 million outpatient visits and2.1 billion dollars expended annually for management 2-4. historically a key component in urinary stone formation is supersaturation a process by which the concentration of substances in urine such as calcium and oxalate exceed the limits of their solubility 5. however considerable overlap in urine chemistries exists between individuals with and without usd 6-8. furthermore supersaturation withcalcium oxalate caox or calcium phosphate caphos is not different in recurrent usd patients compared to controls 9. thus although supersaturated urine is a risk factor alone it is insufficient for stone formation.

these isolates can then be identified more precisely down to the species and even strain level and most importantly can be used to study biological relevance.bacteria can be sequenced from urinary stonesin 2015 we published a microbial study of five kidney stones along with both upper tract urine and bladder urine obtained during the stone removal procedures 31. the patients' ages were between 12 and 29 years four of them had documented caox stones 31.in each stone 16s rrna gene sequencing identified multiple bacteria.

in the second stone equc isolated e. coli while sequencing identified the dominant organism as a member of the family enterobactericeae which includes e. coli 31. since the equc-positive stones were the largest 15 mm it is possible that stones of a certain size are needed to obtain enough biomass for a positive equc result 31.from each individual the bacteria detected by sequencing were often similar in the stone and urine samples but the relative proportions differed.

however several findings do indicate a possible association between urinary stones and bacteria including the high rate of urinary tract infections uti in urinary stone patients and multiple case series of culture-positive urinary stones including stones composed of caox or caphos.

were the most common bacteria isolated from stone cultures followed by the urease-splitting bacteria typically involved in struvite stone formation figure 2 26-28. however the reported results may under-represent the bacteria in urinary stones because the standard urine culture protocols used by clinical microbiologists are designed to identify clinical infections by known uropathogens.

in support of this potential mechanism is the finding of de ferrari and colleagues who demonstrated mean urine citrate was 2-fold lower in 17 standard urine culture-positive patients compared to30 standard urine culture-negative patients 40. lastly bacteria-crystal aggregates may bind to the tubular epithelium resulting in expression of stone matrix proteins in either renal tubular epithelium or inflammatory cells.

however initial exploration of underlying mechanisms for this association indicate that bacteria aggregate selectively to crystals that their presence is associated with increased clumping of crystals and that they stimulate incorporation of proteins into the stone matrix.keywords urinary tract infection uti kidney stones microbiomesubmitted aug 25 2016. accepted for publication sep 21 2016. doi 10.21037atm.2016.11.73view this article at urinary stone disease usd is an expanding clinical problemusd is an expanding problem.

for example in a retrospective review of 1325 adults admitted for usd to a swedish hospital over a 7-year period 28 had a positive standard urine culture 24.bacteria can be cultured from urinary stonesin addition to the aforementioned association between culture-positive urine and usd bacteria can be cultured from the stones themselves.

n8620100figure 2 frequency of bacterial isolates from urinary stone cultures.sequencing and new culture techniques expand our knowledge of the urinary tract microbiotato expand detection and identification of bacteria in low biomass samples such as urine we developed enhanced quantitative urine culture  equc  30  .

these protocols are not conducive to growth by slow growing fastidious or anaerobic bacteria which comprise the vast majority of bacteria found in urine 29.annals of translational medicine vol 5 no 2 january 2017page 3 of 64030golecha et al.

time trends in reported prevalence of kidney stones in the united states 1976-1994. kidney int 2003631817-23.sas dj hulsey tc shatat if et al.

one in ten individuals will experience a urinary stone yet the mechanisms responsible for urinary stones remain largely unknown.

bacteria have long been recognized to contribute to struvite urinary stones however the role of bacteria in the development of the more common calcium oxalate caox and calcium phosphate caphos stones has not been extensively investigated.

this conclusion is supported by the knowledge that treatment with dietary modifications increased fluid intake citrate salts andor thiazide diuretics to reduce urine caox supersaturation only moderately improves recurrence rates 10-12. despite these treatment strategies usd prevalence in us adults and children has recently increased by 40 and 23 respectively 1314. identification of other factors that contribute to caox and or caphos stone formation lithogenesis is a critical need.

n86figure 1 percent of stones with positive cultures overall and subdivided by stone composition.

