These data demonstrated that maternal IL-6 are required for the fetal brain inflammatory response induced by MIA.To specifically address the role of maternal-placental IL-6 sig- nalling in MIA-induced inflammatory responses in the fetal brainthe authors used a conditional transgenic approach.

Moreover given the juxtaposition of the placenta at the maternal and fetal interface these data sup- port the idea that the placenta may be unique accessible molecular barometer of the in utero fetal brain experience that may help pre- dict neurodevelopmental outcomes .

Intriguingly this was not observed in Cyp-19-Cre il6raflfl embryos revealing that MIA-induced placental IL-6 sig- nalling is required for an immune response in the fetal brain.

The placental interleukin-6 signaling controls fetal brain development and behavior.

This was accompanied by an increase in pSTAT3 which is a downstream marker of cytokine signalling within specific regions of the fetal brain.

To determine the role of maternal IL- 6 signalling in the fetal brain inflammatory response the authors Address Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience University College Cork Cork Ireland.E-mail address first crossed il-6 males with il-6-- females and in parallel crossed il-6-- males with il-6 females.

Injections of polyIC to the pregnant dams led to increases in fetal brain IL-6 in off- spring from il-6 females only.

Having confirmed the speci- ficity of the approach and that knockout of IL-6Ra in the tro- phoblast eliminated IL-6 dependent pSTAT3 signalling in this region only the authors examined the fetal brain immune response neuropathology and behavior abnormalities in Cyp-19- Creil6raflfl mice i.e.

These data indicated that placenta IL-6 signalling is a key determinant of MIA-induced behavioral change.So what are the implications of these findings Crucially they describe a novel mechanism by which MIA disrupts fetal neurode- velopment and alters behavior.

Brief CommentaryA new role for placental IL-6 signalling in determining neurodevelopmental outcomeGerard W. O'Keeffe Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience University College Cork Cork Ireland APC Microbiome Institute University College Cork Cork IrelandThe INFANT Centre University College Cork Cork IrelandAutism spectrum disorder ASD is a neurodevelopmental disor- der characterized by deficits in socialization communication and repetitive behaviors.

