additionally il-17-producing cd4 th17 cells are pathogenic during autoimmune diabetes 13. some gut mi- crobiota can support generation of foxp3 cd4 regulatory t treg cells and correct the imbalance between treg and th17 cells and closely related autoreactive t cells 11 12. based onthese findings we hypothesized that dietary fibers that bene- ficially influence the gut microbiota involved in maintaining t cell balances might be instrumental in slowing down or preventing progression of autoimmune diabetes.here we compared the effects of long-chain itf itfl and the more readily fermentable short-chain itf itfs on the frequency of autoimmune diabetes in nod mice.

in addition itfs have different ef- fects on the gut microbiota as long chains are predominantly fermented in the colon while short chains are already fer- mented in the small intestine 6 10.dietary fibers may influence the diabetogenic process via effects on gut immunity barrier and microbiota that modu- late t cells involved in autoimmunity 11 12. t helper th1 cells that secrete interferon--y can activate autoreactive cd8 t cells.

lactobacilli is one of potential pro- biotic members that alleviate inflammation as demonstrated after co-culturing dendritic cells with species of lactobacilli with formation of treg cells as a consequence 23. many bac- teria including lactobacilli have been identified to have effects on gut barrier function 43-45. modulated microbiome could reverse impaired integrity of the intestinal barrier and hence protect gut immunity from microbial antigens escaping the gut barrier and provoking intestinal immune responses dur- ing t1d.

3b.itfl modulates colonic t-cell responses and modulatory cytokine releaseas itfl are fermented in the colon 21 and influence immu- nity by either direct interaction with intestinal cells 22 or by modulating the immune active fermentation products of mi- crobiota 21 we next studied the colonic immunity colonic integrity microbiota and their scfas fermentation products in itfl-treated animals with reduced diabetes frequency.in the colon we observed that itfl supplementation enhanced treg cell and downregulated th17 cells compared with control nod mice fig.

howeverfigure 5. itfl supplementation strengthens gut integrity and barrier function in nod mice.representative sections of colon tissues from six independent mice in nod and itfl- fed groups were shown.

1 in the supporting information.itfl improves gut integrity and barrier functiona healthier colon with a longer length thicker colon mu- cosa and deeper crypts were observed in itfl-fed nod mice compared to controls fig.

therefore consumption of dietary fibers represents an effec- tive strategy to modulate the development of t1d.in general increased dietary fiber intake is associated with reduced incidence of immunological diseases 2 but in nonobese diabetic nod mice it has been shown that some complex dietary fibers enhance autoimmunity against -cells by conditioning microbiota and by disruption of gut barrier and immune function 3 4. we have hypothesized that this might be related to the chemistry of the consumed fibers as we and others have shown that not all but only specific types of dietary fibers are immunomodulating or improving the intestinal barrier function 5 6. however whether this holds consequences for possible prevention of diabetes and effects on gut homeostasis has to the best of our knowledge not been studied yet.a family of dietary fibers for which clear chemistry- dependent effects are demonstrated are inulin-type fructans itfs 7. previous studies have demonstrated that the de- gree of polymerization dp i.e.

5d.itfl promotes scfa production and modifies gut microbiota compositionshifts in gut microbiota and scfa production have been associated with development of autoimmune diabetes 17.consequently we studied the effect of itfs on scfa pro- duction and gut microbiota composition.

lastly itfl-fed mice show enhanced scfa production as well as a more diverse and balanced gut microbiome.the finding that itfl but not itfs dampens the in- cidence of autoimmune diabetes in nod mice leads to the postulation that only specific dietary fibers promote immu- nity and intestinal homeostasis in autoimmune-prone nod mice.

butyrate also exerts anti-inflammatory effects and suppresses nfkb activation in colonocytes 37. itfl-induced scfa pro- duction and especially that of butyrate as we observed may have been a causative factor in the enhanced tj expression and beneficial immunomodulatory effects in the nod mice.composition of the gut microbiome and the abundanceof certain bacteria are important factors to influence the progress of t1d in nod mice 38. our microbiome analysis demonstrated that itfl modulate the composition and in- creased diversity of microbiota.

4b.table 2. significant differences in taxa genus and species lever among nod and nod  itfl micephylumclassorderfamilygenusspeciesnod meanabundancenod itfl mean p value abundance values were by two-tailed independent t-test.uncultured inability to assign given operational taxonomic unit otu into single taxonomic group other absence of information about given otu in the database.reduction in il-1 production in the colon was at least in part caused by suppression of the nlrp3 inflammasome and caspase-1 pathway.

c western blot and densitome- try analysis of occludin and claudin-2 protein expression in nod and itfl-fed nod mice in the colon.

as such enrichment of the diet with these types of dietary fibers may reduce or slow down the progress of autoimmune destruction of -cells.cd4 foxp3 treg cells are responsible for maintain-ing self-tolerance and immune homeostasis 26. foxp3 treg cells which suppress autoreactive t cells 27 and th17 cellsil-17 indispensable in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diabetes 13 are dysregulated.

itfl promoted modulatoryt-cell responses as evidenced by increased cd25foxp3cd4 regulatory t cells decreasedil17acd4 th17 cells and modulated cytokine production profile in the pancreas spleen and colon.

next-generation sequenc- ing analysis revealed that itfl enhanced firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio to an antidiabetogenic balance and enriched modulatory ruminococcaceae and lactobacilli.conclusion our data demonstrate that itfl but not itfs delays the development of t1d via modulation of gut-pancreatic immunity barrier function and microbiota homeostasis.keywordsbarrier integrity  dietary fibers  gastroentero pancreatic regulation  gut micro- biota homeostasis  immunomodulation  nutritional intervention  pancreatic-gut immunity  type 1 diabetes pathophysiologyadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived november 17 2016revised january 7 2017accepted february 2 2017correspondence dr. jia sune-mail abbreviations dp degree of polymerization itf inulin-type fructans itfl long-chain itfs itfs short-chain itfs nodnonobese diabetic nlrp3 nod like receptor protein 3 scfa short-chain fatty acid t1d type 1 diabetes tht helper tj tight junction treg regulatory tthese authors are co-senior authors.colour online see the article online to view figs.

