in group 1 a sig- nificant statistical associations was found for haemophilus neisseria staphylococcus and streptococcus genera on nasal and adenoid surface p  0.00001 on adenoid sur- face and core p  0.00001 and on the nasal surface and adenoid core p  0.000126. on the other hand in group 2 significant associations between nasal surface and both adenoid surface p  0.00001 and core p  0.000091 wereactinomyces naeslundihaemophilus influenzaestaphylococcus aureus aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitanshaemophilus sppstaphylococcus epidermidis corynebacterium pseudodiphtheriticumkocuria roseastreptococcus pyogenes erysipelothrix rhusiopathiaemoraxella catarrhalisstreptococcus pneumoniae gemella morbilorumneisseria meningitidisstreptococcus sppgranulicatella elegansneisseriaspp.fig.

adenoid surface swab was collected after retracting the palatal velum providing frank and unobstructed access to the adenoid surface.

the population was divided in two cohorts according to the nature of the indication for adenoidec- tomy a cohort of 19 infectious patients and another of 43 non-infec- tiousstatistical analysisunadjusted association between surgery indication and identity of the 4 major genera on nasal surface adenoid surface and core microbiota were evaluated by chi-square test.

n. meningitis was iso- lated only from one patient with obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome group 2. commensal neisseria species were found in 19.29 and 12.61 of samples from group 1 and 2 respectively.among 42 children 10 in group 1 and 32 in group2 were simultaneously identified the same bacterial spe- cies on the adenoid core and at least one other sample adenoid surface or nasal surface.

pyogenes--were identified in 18 children simultaneously on the adenoid core and surface and on nasal samples in contrast from 14 children these species were isolated only on the adenoid core and surface.

unlike the palatine tonsils adenoid tonsils in most cases are not as thick and have an irregular surface making it difficult to clearly separate core from surface sampling.

although not usual it has been previously reported  and is in our mind not an innocent bystander in these patients.other interesting result was finding no statistically sig- nificant association between adenoid surface and adenoid core flora at least for the main genera of bacteria and this pairs with the majority of previous works on the palatine tonsils .these results therefore come in line with previous reports describing that surface colonization in the ade- noid tonsils may play a role in upper airway infections.

adenoid surface adenoid core and middle meatus microbiota were compared.

a potential explanation for these findings is the presence of biofilms on adenoid surface .

there is growing evidence that ade- noid core bacteria share identity with the biofilm forming bacteria on the adenoid surface and in the middle meati and may therefore be responsible for respiratory disease -.

knowing this the present study aims to contribute to the body of knowledge comparing bacterial population in both adenoid core and surface and in the middle meati of children having adenoid surgery.

adenoid core sample was collected through the same path after the first curettage provided access to the deeper adenoid layers taking special care not to collect surface fimbriae on the raw surface.bacterial isolation and identificationthe nasal and adenoidal swabs were inoculated into brain heart infusion bhi and the adenoidal biopsies into phosphate buffer saline pbs and processed within the next 8h.

nevertheless the age modes calculated were 6 and 5 years old for group 1 and 2 respectively.microbiota from 62 patients were taken 186 samples including adenoid core adenoid surface and nasal swab from each patient being identified 33 bacterial genera including potential pathogenic bacteria such as streptococ- cus pneumoniae haemophilus influenzae beta-hemolytic streptococci and staphylococcus aureus.

b. the same trend of greater bac- terial diversity in group 2 than in group 1 was observedboth on adenoid surface fig.

e f. a total of 8 and 14 different bacterial species were isolated from adenoid core and surface of group1 and 2 respectively.

