while it can be said up front that there is no universal acceptance of which of these two hypotheses might explain what is the btarget cell for cancers there is some strong evidence that the adult organ-specific stem cell is the btarget cell for the conversion of this adult stem cell to be initiated tai et al.

if those mutations occurred in a stem cell's genes to regulate asymmetrical cell division but does not affect symmetrical cell division then that stem cell would be able to expand but not terminally differentiate kang and trosko .

however if that stem cell is binitiated in the stem cell state and bpromoted by agents endogenous or exogenous that favors symmetrical cell division these initiated colon stem cell cells will form undifferentiated-type or bflat lesions.

the interpretation of an organ-specific adult stem cell being binitiated by some agent that can influence carcinogen- esis is that this initiated adult stem cell will be unable to ter- minally differentiate and remain in its normal bundifferentiated state  or promoted trosko and kang  to accrue all those other mutagenic and epigenetic changes to acquire the bhallmarks of cancer hanahan and weinberg  hanahan and weinberg .yet this alone will not explain the original differences in the left and right origin of two different kinds of cancer.

several observations bring the stem cell hypothesis and bde-differentiation' or breprogramming hypothesis of cancer for further examination.one of the prevailing paradigms in the cancer field is that the first step of the binitiation bpromotion and bprogression process of carcinogenesis is the bimmortalization of a normal bmortal cell land et al.

the assumption being made here is that gjic is a necessary if not sufficient require- ment for a cancer cell to be immortal have uncontrolled growth cannot terminally differentiate and does not apoptose correctly.in order to characterize the origin of cancer cells two ad- ditional hypotheses have driven cancer research off and on for many years namely that a cancers originate from adult- organ-specific stem cells markert  pierce  fialkow  potter  till  trosko and tai  or b from the bde-differentiation or bre-programming of somatic dif- ferentiated cells sell .

if the adult stem cell is capable of either symmetrical or asymmet- rical cell division depending on endogenous or exogenous signals it receives barker  then either expansion of the stem cell population or of its progenitordifferentiated lin- eages will follow.

the same anti-cancer agent given to an binitiated stem cell which has its connexin genes epi- genetically repressed at the transcriptional level will respond to this agent very differently that a cancer cell that is partiallydifferentiated because it has its connexin gene expressed but is unable to communicate with a dysfunctional gap junction protein.

from a theoretical perspective to convert a cancer cell which has no expressed connexin and no functional gjic to one that might be contact inhibited differentiate or apoptose as a normal cell one needs to transcriptionally acti- vate the connexin gene.

j clin oncol 36suppl abstr 3504wang x kruithof-de julio m economides kd walker d yu h halili mv hu yp price sm abate-shen c shen mm 2009 a luminal epithelial stem cell that is a cell of origin for prostate cancer.

cancer lett 36161-168kondo t setoguchi t taga t 2004 persistence of a small subpopula- tion of cancer stem-like cells in the c6 glioma cell line.

vet pathol 46176-193trosko je 2014 induction of ips cells and of cancer stem cells the stem cell or reprogramming hypothesis of cancer anat rec hoboken 297161-173trosko je 2016a.

brit j cancer 11311-5. doi iacopetta b 2002 are there two sides to colorectal cancer int j cancer1015403-408jiang jx penuela s 2016 connexin and pannexin channels in cancer.

br j cancer 381-23price tj beeke c ullah s padbury r maddern g roder d et al 2015 does the primary site of colorectal cancer impact outcomes for pa- tients with metastatic disease cancer 91216830-835prigione a fauler b lurz r lehrach h adjaye j 2010 the senes- cence related mitochondrialoxidative stress pathway is repressed in human induced pluripotent stem cells.

this observation that stem cells do not express their connexin genes or have functional gjic is because of the evolutionary role of gap junctions to help maintain homeostatic control of cell proliferation cell differentiation and apoptosis trosko  .

