we aimed to study the impact and safety of fmt on decolonization of cre or vre carriers using a standardized protocol.methodssettingthis was a pilot prospective multicentre study of fmt for patients with digestive tract colonization with cre or vre.

there was no statistical difference between pcr and culture.moniae carbapenemase kpc-producing enterobacteriaceae within four weeks and about half of the kpc-positive patients were still carriers after nine months.a recent meta-analysis reported that the rate of decolonization of cre carriers without intervention was 50 at six months.in a context where no other efficient strategy is available our first results show that fmt seems to be safe with an impact on cre decolonization at one month and on vre decolonization at three months.

among them one and two were decolonized respectively at m1 and m3.one cirrhotic patient with persistent vre carriage died three months after fmt from ascitic fluid infection and vre bacteraemia.

davido  r. batista  h. michelon  m. lepainteur  f. bouchand r. lepeule  j. salomon  d. vittecoq  c. duran  l. escaut  i. sobhani m. paul  c. lawrence  c. perronne  f. chast  a. dinh a infectious diseases unit raymond poincare' teaching hospital aphp versailles saint-quentin university garches franceb pharmacy department cochin teaching hospital aphp paris descartes university paris francec pharmacy department raymond poincare' teaching hospital aphp versailles saint-quentin university garches franced microbiology laboratory raymond poincare' teaching hospital aphp versailles saint-quentin university garches francee antimicrobial stewardship unit henri mondor teaching hospital aphp paris-est cre'teil-est university cre'teil francef infectious diseases unit bicetre teaching hospital aphp paris-sud university le kremlin-bicetre franceg gastroenterology department henri mondor teaching hospital aphp paris-est cre'teil-est university cre'teil franceh pharmacy department henri mondor teaching hospital aphp paris-est cre'teil-est university cre'teil francea r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 13 january 2017accepted 1 february 2017 available online 6 february 2017keywords antimicrobials faecal microbiota transplantationmultidrug-resistant organism carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae vancomycin-resistant enterococcis u m m a r ycarbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae cre or vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre carriage present a major public health challenge.

we aimed to evaluate the impact of faecal microbiota transplantation fmt on a cohort of patients with digestive tract colonization by cre or vre.

eight patients were included six carrying cre and two colonized by vre.

one month after fmt two patients were free from cre carriage and another patient was free from vre after three months.

carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae cre and vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre is occurring worldwide.patients carrying these bacteria are at risk of developing severe infections due to these bacteria these in- fections are associated with a high mortality rate partially because of inappropriate antimicrobial treatment.the use of transmission precautions such as contact isola- tion with patients known to be colonized or infected with resistant micro-organisms is recommended in healthcare fa- cilities.

however to the best of our knowledge there have been no reported case series of fmt for cre or vre car- riers.

moreover at admission prior to fmt colonization was confirmed by pcr testing pcr xpert car- bar and xpert vanavanb by cepheidr maurens-scopont france.patientsinclusion criteria were aged 18 years written informed consent signed cre or vre colonization confirmed by at least three consecutive positive rectal swabs at weekly intervals including one in the week prior to the fmt.main exclusion criteria were immunosuppression hiv with cd4 200mm3 immunosuppressive therapy including corti- costeroids 60 mgday for more than five days chemo- therapy concomitant antibiotic prescription at the time of fmt.study procedureduring the two days prior to the fmt patients received a proton-pump inhibitor at the lowest dose i.e.

statistical analyses were carried out by graphpad prism v.6.0d graphpad software inc. la jolla ca usa.table ipopulation characteristics and carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae cre and vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre carriageindicationseaspirationpneumoniaaspirationpneumoniaunknownsepsisebronchitisosteomyelitisefollow-uppersistance of carriage at month 1 ynyynyyy persistance of carriage at month 3 ynnanyyyf female m male kp klebsiella pneumoniae fmt faecal microbiota transplant atb antibiotic treatment aac amoxicillin acide clavulanic fq fluoroquinolones c3g third- generation cephalosporin coli colistin mtz metronidazole irg iso-resource group ranging wbc white blood cell pmn polymorphonuclear leucocyte cell crp c-reactive protein.

risk factors for each hdreb carrier are also presented in .after fmtone month m1 after fmt two patients were free from cre colonization one more patient was free from vre after three months m3 .

no other adverse events were reported.discussionwe were able to demonstrate clearance of cre and vre carriage after fmt in two out of eight and three out of eight patients after one and three months respectively.

they were cre carriers oxa-48 whereas no vre carrier was free from colonization at m1.

that study did not show statistically significant differences between patients with clearance and patients with persistent colonization with1005004812weeks of follow-upfigure 1. clearance of carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae cre and vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre carriage among eight patients according to rectal swabs kaplanemeier analysis of the percentage of colonization documented by polymerase chain reaction pcr or agar culture.

