Subtilisin was active at nanomolar concentra- tions on SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells and both subtilisin and chymotrypsin were active on SH-SY5Y cells CaCo-2 human colorectal cancer cells MCF-7 and MDA- MB-231 human mammary adenocarcinoma cells as well as on freshly isolated tissue in which the levels of DCC are much higher than in cancer-derived cell lines.

Strains of Staphylo- coccus secrete toxic haemolysins and the Staphylococcal Enterotoxins promote proliferation of T cells inducing normal cells to secrete factors that enhance proliferation of existing malignant T cells.

Increases in the virulence of H. pylori induced by iron deficiency and high- salt consumption produce corresponding increases in can- cer susceptibility.Within the stomach H. pylori cells become adherent to the gastric epithelial cells where they avoid immuno- logical detection and suppress host defence mechanisms locally and then proceed to invade the gastric mucosa.

The mutant cells exhibited corresponding differences in the activation of matrix metalloproteinase-3 MMP-3 with increased2631expression of the EMT markers Snail ZEB1 and vimentin as well as the stem cell marker CD44 .TGF-b is an important regulator of tissue inflammation but H. pylori Caga-positive cells inhibited TGF-b func- tion via an interaction between Caga and Smad3 .

The Caga pro- tein is exported from the bacterial cells as well as infected gastric epithelial cells in the exosomes thus gaining wide distribution via the vascular circulation and potentially pro- moting carcinogenesis in a range of systemic tissues.Cytolethal distending toxin CDTSome Gram-negative bacteria including species of Heli- cobacter especially those which target the liver such asH.

Cer- tainly the chronic treatment of cells with CDT generates phenotypic changes characteristic of precancerous cells with an increased frequency of mutation chromosomal changes with enhanced genomic instability p38MAPK activation and an increased ability to show anchorage- independent proliferation.

CNF1 induces a proinflammatory phenotype in target cells with activation of NFkB a release of proinflammatory cytokines from epi- thelial cells and increased cell migration .CNF1 is one of the bacterial toxins whose carcinogenic properties are not confined to the GI tract.

Since the cancer-derived cells expressed little DCC the dcc gene was transfected into SH-SY5Y and MCF-7 cells.

Both subtilisin and chymotrypsin significantly increased the migration of cells producing scratch closure in human MCF-7 breast cancer cells without any confounding changes in cell proliferation .These results led to our formulating a new potential mechanism linking diet bacteria obesity and cancer Fig 3.

In all these situations the subtilisin or chymotrypsin may potentially deplete DCC and neogenin from cells of the GI tract immune system cells in contact with the GI tract and in other tissues to which the enzymes have access after absorption.

