langsdorffia hypogaea is one of the 44 species of plants described belonging to the family balanophoraceae which includes herbaceous angiosperms achlorophyllous plants and holoparasites of roots of trees shrubs and even herbaceous plants  .

due to its association with an extensive deposit of iron ore and since it is one of the least studied ecosystems in brazil iq has a seriously threatened biodiversity due to the intense mining activity associated with its iron outcrops.among the plant species threatened by this anthropic activity in iq there have been few studies particularly on holoparasitic plants as in the case of langsdorffia hypogaea mart the model of this study being asteraceae guatteria genus fabaceae dalbergia genus melastomataceae miconia genus and myrsinaceae myrsine genus the most representative families of potential host plants from l. hypogaea  .

the potential of some of these isolates is indicated in  ranging from 28 in isolates from l. hypogaea to above 95 in the isolates r50 r51 r52 h55 and h58 from rizhosphere and host respectively.discussionidentification of microbiota associated with l. hypogaea and its interactionsthe importance and complexity of the rhizosphere in the interaction with plants and other organisms in which they live have been reported in many studies      .

20 642-650. bais h. p. weir t. l. perry l. g. gilroy s. and vivanco j. m. 2006. the role of root exudates in rhizosphere interactions with plants and other organisms.

this microbial community is essential for the development of plants since it facilitates the absortion of nutrients and at the same time provides protection against phytopathogens fungi oomycetes bacteria viroses protozoa and nematodes and herbivores  .the rhizosphere or portion of soil that has close contact with the plant roots represents a highly dynamic environment that enables the interaction of roots with beneficial and pathogenic microorganisms invertebrates and even root systems of other plants    .

similarly the modifications in the physiological profile of plants as a result of alterations in the chemical composition of the rhizosphere or the microbiota contained therein have also been characterized especially with regard to the interaction between plants of agricultural interest        .

in the same perspective many plants only have receptors for siderophores depending intimately on the their production by microorganisms that live in symbiosis or cooperation with these plants for acquiring iron from the environment essential for their growth  .

of the 26 isolates that showed similarity to serratia 25 isolates were capable of fixing n2 and producing iaa and 15 were capable of producing siderophores.paenibacillus yonginensis dcy84 was evaluated in growth with arabidopsis thaliana subjected to salt drought and heavy metal stress and the study showed that plants treated withthis bacterial isolate were more resistant than the untreated control plants  .

270 26723-26726. nickrent d. l. 2002. plantas parasitas en el mundo in plantas parasitas de la peninsula iberica e islas baleares eds j. a. lopez-saez p. catalan and l. saez madrid mundi-prensa libros 7-28.perez-montano f. alias-villegas c. bellogin r. a. del cerro p. espunyr.

8 351-358.wang s. ouyang l. ju x. zhang l. zhang q. and li y.

in the region of the brazilian iron quadrangle iq studies involving the interaction between microbiota and plants have been neglected.

the high number of isolates that produce siderophores and indole-3-acetic acid suggests that this microbiota may be important for adaptation of plants to iq.

the results demonstrate for the first time the biological importance of brazilian iq species as reservoirs of specific microbiotas that might be used as pgpb on agricultural land or antropized soils that needs to be reforested.keywords langsdorffia hypongaea bioprospecting biotechnological potential plant growth-promoting bacteria brazilian iron quadrangle iaa and siderophoresintroductionthroughout evolution plants have developed adaptive mechanisms related to interactions with microorganisms   .

accordingly plants comprise a complex host system made up of different microhabitats that can be simultaneously colonized by a great diversity of endophytic and epiphytic microorganisms  .

in the same way secondary metabolites produced by these microorganisms have been used in medicine when they have antibiotic antitumor antifungal or antiparasitic activity    .therefore understanding distinct interactions of the microbiota with soil and plants allow not only a better understanding of the biological models studied but also prospecting potential uses of this microbiota or even its biomolecules in a biotechnological perspective.

