several bacterial species approximately equal to the ratio of gram-negative and gram-positive species dominated by obligate anaerobes have been involved in the etiology of endodontic infec- tions the prevalence of microbial coexistence was markedly associated with clinical properties and is different in various popu- lations suggesting that specific combinations of species lead to the promotion of endodontic symptomatology if microbiota retain in the pulp cavity after root canal therapy there is an increased risk of a detrimental outcome of the endodon- 1572-1000c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.tic treatment that can lead to secondarypersistent endodontic infections the ultimate goal of endodontic treatment is an effort to achieve ideally the elimination or at least significant reduction in count of microorganisms although chemomechanical debridement and antimicrobial chemical agents such as sodium hypochlorite and chlorhexidine have an essential role in the reduction of bacteria in the infected root canal residual bacteria are readily detectable in nearly 50 at the time of root canal filling so the teeth may not heal properly after initial treatment.photo-activated disinfection therapy pad also known as photodynamic therapy is an adjunctive therapy to conventional endodontic treatment leading to a significant further reduction of bacterial load and can be an alternative treatment.

faecalis can enter the root canal during or between the process of treatment and survive in a very harsh root canal environment that is usually lethal for many other microbiota owing to its properties which include growth in high concentrations of salt a wide tem- perature and a broad ph range in the results of this study the diversity of bacterial communities was decreased after pad and e. faecalis c. albicans and v. parvula were found in three root canals of a persistent endodontic infection separately.

according to this in vivo study the diversity and count of microbiota in root canal-treated teeth were decreased after tbo-pad so that e. faecalis v. parvula and c. albicans were the microorganisms that recovered after pad.conclusion tbo-pad is an effective approach that exhibited anti-microbial potential activity against microbiota involved in secondarypersistent endodontic infection.c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.introductionendodontic infection is an inflammatory disease caused by a mixed microbial consortium which can be classified as primary and secondary or persistent over 600 microbiota taxa have been identified in infected root canals that with an average of 13-80 taxa corresponding author at department of microbiology school of medicine tehran university of medical sciences keshavarz blvd 100 poursina ave tehran 14167-53955 iran.e-mail addresses  a. bahador.harboring in each root canal knowledge of the nature of the microorganisms involved in endodontic infections depends upon the diagnosis of these microorganisms present in the root canal sys- tem.

according to the results of this study micro- bial load combined with microbial composition analysis before and after pad treatment reflects the at least possible role of recurrence and treatment failure of endodontic infection after pad treatment which may indicate microbial susceptibility to pad.

albicans 1 33.3.discussionthere are more than 600 various microbial taxa in endodontic samples it is generally believed that persistence of microor- ganisms in the root canal of root-filled teeth is the major cause of post-treatment disease after initial endodontic treatment although there are numerous studies that described the strategies to deal with the appearance of secondary endodontic infections up to now the development of inefficient conventional ther- apeutic methods and emergence of resistance to antibiotics by the organisms involved in root canal infections has led to the develop- ment of a new antimicrobial approach with fewer complications.pad has gained regulatory approval for the treatment of various diseases and eradication of microorganisms such as oral pathogenic bacteria tbo is one of the cationic blue-coloring hydrophilic photosensitizers that can be used for both gram-positive and gram-negative oral bacteria due to its physical and chemical prop- erties and in combination with wavelength-specific laser photonic energy it has an additional antimicrobial effect to the best of our knowledge this is the first in vivo study that has evalu-fig.

the maximum time between sampling and laboratory processing was less than 4 h. at the end of sampling the root canal therapy was done by a dentist based on conventional treatment methods culture procedurethe tubes of transport media containing the root canal sam- ples were strongly vortexed for 30-45 s and serial 10-fold dilutions were made up to105 based on previously described conditions in brief 90 microliter ul brain heart infusion bhi broth merck darmstadt germany was added to each well of round-bottom 96- well microtiter plates tpp trasadingen switzerland using the multi-channel pipet and 10 ul of each tube containing sample was transferred to the wells in column one and diluted 10-fold step wise from column one to column five.

in this study sig-nificant decrease of the microbial load and content of endodontic microbiota after pad treatment demonstrated that it is the basis for the success of endodontic treatment to indicate the prognosis of pad treatment.

no microorganisms in 11 cases and one single microorganism in three cases were found after pad as the results show the most common bacterial genera recovered from secondary infection of the root canals before tbo-mediated pad was e. faecalis 35.4 and after tbo- mediated pad were v. parvula 1 33.3 e. faecalis 1 33.3 andc.

in this study we evaluated the effect of pad on diversity and count of microbiota related to secondarypersistent endodontic infections.materials and methods root canal samples were taken using sterile paper points from the root canals of 14 patients with secondarypersistent endodontic infections after removing the root-canal filling materials.

however according to the best of our knowledge no data has yet been reported regarding microbial load combined with microbial composition analysis before and after pad treatment this is the first systematic culture and molecular methods approach that attempts to assess and evaluate the composition and load of the endodontic microbial community in previously root- filled canals before and after pad treatment.

since there is no research to show the pattern of microbial profile before and after pad we cannot compare the results of this study after pad with other studies.the difficulty of killing the gram-negative bacteria using pad is to be able to achieve the penetration of tbo inside the bacte- rial cell wall with the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria playing a major role that is involved in resistance to antimicro- bial agents.

30 convergence of 2 that were successively introduced into the full length of the canal according to the radiographic char- acteristics and retained in place for 60 s. paper points were then transferred aseptically to tubes containing viability medium gote- borg agar vmga iii transport medium photosensitizer and light source for endodontic treatmentafter sampling the root canals were treated using pad tech- nique.

after pad the root canal was gently irri- gated with sterile normal saline and sampling was conducted by three sterile paper points no.

furthermore the number of cases included in the study is small.conclusionreducing diversity and number of the microbial communities following tbo-pad in root canal infections shows that pad is a new approach to eradicating pathogenic microorganisms such as gram- positive and gram-negative bacteria and fungi related to secondary endodontic infection.conflict of interestthe authors declare that there is no conflict of interests regard- ing the publication of this paper.acknowledgementthis research has been supported by tehran university of med- ical sciences  health services grant no.

2. microorganisms isolated from secondarypersistent endodontic infections a polymicrobial plate b veillonella parvula c aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitansd analytical profile index of porphyromonas gingivalis.ated the effect of pad as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of persistentsecondary endodontic infections.in this in vivo study we used a culture-dependent approach because it is a gold standard technique and one of the most reli- able procedures for detection of viable microbiota particularly when specimens are taken immediately after pad where viabil- ity may not be determined by most culture-independent methods in addition bacterial diversity and bacterial counts are usu- ally presented by culturing analysis.

