doi10.11111751-7915.12698editorial the microbiome as a source of new enterprises and job creationcreating new business economic growth and regional prosperity through microbiome-based products in the agriculture industrythe manipulation of plant and environmental micro- biomes is becoming an increasingly popular tool to sus- tainably increase farm productivity for food and nutrient security singh and trivedi 2017. there are multiple drivers for the increasing focus on microbiome tools in agriculture including the need for a substantial increase in food production from shrinking arable lands.

how- ever biopesticides account for over 2 billion annually which constitutes 5 of 44 billion annual market of chemical pesticides reed and green 2013. within the biopesticide market microbially derived products account for more than 50 of the biopesticide market.

usa microbiome initiative international bioeconomy forum and private sectors combined with a large number of start-up companies suggest that microbiome products for agriculture use will exponentially increase in the near future propelled by sophisticated technologies e.g.

these beneficial microbial productsgenes can be used in future to manipulate the microbiome in situ or used to geneti- cally modify crops for more efficient production.role in regional prosperity job creation and boosting activities of allied industriesthe wider use of microbiome tools in agriculture can significantly increase regional growth if the demand and supply routes are regionally locked.

similarly a new approach is being considered for the plant breed- ing industry where the retention and promotion of the plant beneficial microbiome are being considered.

1.challenges and outlooksall indicators suggest the use of microbiome tools and microbial products in agriculture have great potential to create new industries and boost economic growth and job creation.

however to realize the vast and real potential of the microbiome in addition to overcoming scientific challenges singh and trivedi 2017 microbiome tools and products need to meet cru- cial industrial standards.

1. microbiome tools and products in agriculture offer an unprecedented opportunity for creation of new industries and long-term global eco- nomic growth.

if industries and regulatory agencies are able to addressthe above challenges microbiome approaches in agri- culture and agribusiness are poised to offer unprece- dented opportunities for sustainable food and nutrient security creating new and boosting allied industries which will significantly contribute to the national and global economic growth and boost regional prosperity with better environmental and social outcomes.brajesh k. singh12 1hawkesbury institute for the environment western sydney university penrith 2751 nsw australia and 2global centre for land-based innovation western sydney university penrith 2751 nsw australiaa 2017 the authors.

2014 pipelines for new chemicals a strategy to create new value chains and stimulate innovation-based economic revival in southern european countries.

consumer's demand of chemical-free food and environ- ment preservation pressures are other key drivers that provide the impetus towards green and renewable tech- nologies for sustainable farming.initial outcomes from microbiome approaches and emerging industriesalthough still in its infancy the use of and market for microbiome-derived tools the term used here is broad in nature and include both the whole microbial community as well as single species products in agriculture is growing rapidly.

this market is currently dominated by the 3m company and biomerieux sa with a number of new start-up companies recently entering the arena.

harnessing the plant and soil microbiome is increasingly being recog- nized as one such approach.

for example indigo is launch- ing a new cotton seed product coated with microbes which is reported to provide 10 yield benefits when cotton is grown under water stress.

similarly bioag alliance a joint venture between monsanto and novozyme has announced a number of new microbial products which can substantially increase corn productivity by enhancing nutrient uptake and nematicidal activities.

