indeed it was reported that the piglets exposed to soil in this study had significantly higher body weight bw 2.21 kg more p  0.05 at the end of-nursery despite having lower bw at weaning 6.87 vs. 7.40 kg p  0.05. pigs exposed to soil tended to have higher bw at end of growth 4.6 kg resulting in significantly higher average daily gain throughout the nursery period 0.42 vs.0.35 kgd p  0.01 .

our objective was to investigate the potential impact of early exposure to environmental soil microbes on the gut microbiota composition through time and between treatments and overall growth performance.methodexperimental design e exposure of top soil to pigspiglets pic-29 x 380 from 20 litters litter size10 were assigned to be either managed conventionally in farrowing cratesc or daily exposed to topsoil s from 4 days postpartum d 0 to the end of lactation d 17. approximately 1 kg of topsoil from tontitown ar sod store inc. was placed and maintained throughout the 17 day into flat containers in s pigs farrowing crates for unrestricted rooting.at weaning unisex littermates were penned together in groups of 10 total of 10 pens and 50 pigs per treatment and were all subjected to identical growing conditions no more soil exposure until marketing.

at weaning s pigs ha higher numbers of prevotella and several firmicutes genera clostridium and clostridium clusters xi and xivb faecalibacterium coprococcus blautia oscillibacter butyricioccoccus peptostreptococcacceae and veillonella .at day 35 c pigs had higher bacteroides and other bacter- oidetes clostridium xivb and enterobacteriaceae while s pigs had higher prevotella faecalibacterium megasphaera veillonellaceae and acidaminococacceae .

c pigs had significantly higher synergistes numbers at weaning day 21. at day 55 and 96 the composition were similar with a trend for lower bacteroidetes and higher firmicutes in s pigs .multivariate analyses at the genus level indicated significant differences in the gut microbiota trajectories in developing piglets depending on soil exposure .

the fact that s pigs maintained significantly higher numbers of butyrate-producing clostridia from w to eon supports our hypothesis on the benefit of soil exposure by improved immune function andor energy harvest.besides butyrate producers s pigs also had significantly higher number of other scfas producing bacteria and genera generally associated with beneficial properties such as blautia veillonella and different clostridia members.

2. differences in gut microbiota composition phylum level between control 1 and soil 2 exposed pigs at d13 lactation l 21 weaning wt 35 mid-nursery mnt 56 end of nursery eont and 96 end of growth egt.

however a significant p 0.028 difference in the number of taxa 203 in c 258 in s and in chao index 290 in c 373 in s was observed at weaning but nottable 1mean of observed otus and diversity indices including inverse simpson chao and shannon index of two treatments in different time points.note t1 control treatment c t2 soil treatment s.l lactation 13 days w weaning 21 days mn mid nursery 35 days eon end of nursery 56 days g growth phase 96 days.observed otus and diversity indices were compared between treatments at specific time point using non-parametric wilcoxon test performed in jmp 11 software.reflected in other diversity indices .

specifically pigs from 20 litters were assigned to either control treatments c or soil treatments s pigs exposed to topsoil from day 4 postpartum to the end of lactation.

pigs were fed common antibiotic-free corn-sbm- ddgs nutrient-adequate diets and individual pigs body weight bw was measured at birth and weaning d 17 together with feed disappearance at each phases change d 25 38 56 77 100 123 and 142 and again at the end of trial d 163 to determine the growth performance.

at the end of the growth period day 96 s pigs had higher faecalibacterium .discussionin this study we observed that exposure to soil increased the10.90.80.70.60.50.40.3verrucomicrobia synergistetes spirochaetes proteobacteria lentisphaerae fusobacteria firmicutes fibrobacteres elusimicrobia bacteroidetes actinobacteria0.20.10l1l2wt1wt2mnt1mnt2eont1eont2gt1gt2fig.

in the present study at w 21 days s pigs microbiota possessed higher diversity comparing to c pigs in term of richness when they have significantly higher observed species as well as chao index.

cloacibacillus were relatively abundant during the lactation phase while treponema appeared at weaning with numbers fading after day35.impact of soil exposure on gut microbiota structure and dynamicsduring the lactation phase soil exposure had no significant impact on gut microbiota diversity.

at weaning c pigs had higher numbers of non-prevotella bacter- oidetes butyricimonas alistipes and odoribacter members of the clostridium xiva cluster and proteobacteria campylobacter desulfovibrio and synergistes cloacibacillus and pyramidobacter .

somewhat similar trends were observed in the days after weaning day 35 and 55 with s pigs having higher levels of several scfa-producing firmicutes mega- sphaera in addition at day 35 and prevotella at day 35.prevotella is well known as the dominant genus in gut micro- biota of mammals and humans consuming a diet rich in plant polysaccharides and fiber  indicating that prevotella is a primary degrader releasing propionate and plant-derived com- pounds for further microbial fermentation.

after 56 days eon s pigs showed a higher diversity in term of evenness when they have statistically higher value of shannon and inverse simpson index.

