she currently receives research support from the national multiple sclerosis society the canadian institutes of health research the multiple sclerosis society of canada and the multiple sclerosis scientific research foundation.

alterations of the human gut microbiome in multiple sclerosis.

alterations of the human gut microbiome in multiple sclerosis.

multiple sclerosis patients have a distinct gut microbiota compared to healthy controls.

gut microbiota in early pediatric multiple sclerosis a case- control study.

dysbiosis in the gut microbiota of patients with multiple sclerosis with a striking depletion of species belonging to clostridia xiva and iv clusters.

gut microbiota in multiple sclerosis possible influence of immunomodulators.

gut liver 201610932-8.marrie ra reider n stuve o et al.

 editorialthe multiple sclerosis microbiomehelen tremlett1 emmanuelle waubant2page 1 of 21medicine neurology and the djavad mowafaghian centre for brain health university of british columbia vancouver bc canada 2universityof california san francisco san francisco ca usacorrespondence to professor helen tremlett.

gut-brain communications likely involve the immune system 12 of particular relevance in multiple sclerosis ms. ms is an inflammatory and neurodegenerative immune-mediated disease often impacting young adults with many unmet needs.

further work is needed to clarify the causality of such findings.acknowledgementsnone.footnoteconflicts of interest h tremlett none in relation to this work is the canada research chair for neuroepidemiology and multiple sclerosis.

in addition in the last five years she has received research support from the multiple sclerosis society of canada don paty career development award the michael smith foundation for health research scholar award and the uk ms trust speaker honoraria andor travel expenses to attend conferences from the consortium of ms centres 2013 the national ms society 2012 2014 2016 teva pharmaceuticals 2011ectrims 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 uk mstrust 2011 the chesapeake health education program us veterans affairs 2012 novartis canada 2012 biogen idec 2014 american academy of neurology 2013 2014 2015 2016. all speaker honoraria are either declined or donated to an ms charity or to an unrestricted grant for use by her research group.

the incidence and prevalence of comorbid gastrointestinal musculoskeletal ocular pulmonary and renal disorders in multiple sclerosis a systematic review.

isolation of clostridium perfringens type b in an individual at first clinical presentation of multiple sclerosis provides clues for environmental triggers of the disease.

email provenance this is a guest editorial commissioned by section editor mingzhu gao md department of laboratory medicine wuxi second hospital nanjing medical university wuxi china.comment on jangi s gandhi r cox lm et al.

