e correlation analysis between caecal acetate levels and visceral fat accumulation plasma acetate levels and glp-1 levels.f correlation analysis between plasma acetate levels and visceral fat accumulation and adipocyte size.

we next assessed the correlation between the relative abundance of dominant bacterial genera and scfas ms-related parameters to identify the genera that might contribute to the production of scfa or the anti-ms effects 5. at the genus level the relative abundance of bifidobacterium correlated positively with caecal acetate plasma ace- tate and colonic glp-1 levels r 0.54 0.76 and 0.60 respectively all p  0.001 and negatively with the amount of visceral fat r  -0.31 p  0.05. the abundance of lactobacillus also correlated with caecal acetate plasma acetate and colonic glp-1 levels r 0.67 0.42 and 0.43 respectively all p  0.01. the other genera showed no correlation with scfa levels.

on the other hand acetate levels showed a signif- icant negative correlation with the amount of visceral fat and adipocyte size f. these results suggested that the elevation in plasma acetate following blag treatment was associated with a reduction in the size of adipocytes probably through enhanced insulin sensitivity via gpr43 signalling which resulted in improved glucose tolerance and less fat accumulation.

in addition the mean distance in the mixture of hfd-fed control and the blag-treated groups was significantlyfigure 2. comparison of the blag treatment and bifidobacterium longum jcm1217t bloj treatment to improve glucose tolerance and body fat accumulation in hfd mice experiment 2. a blood glucose levels and the area under the curve after oral glucose challenge 2 gkg body weight after the bifidobacteria treatment for 6 weeks.

in addition colonic glp-1 levels correlated positively with luminal acetate levels f but not with propionate or butyrate levels data not shown.

moreover the concentration of plasma acetate correlated positively with the caecal pool of acetate but negatively with both the amount of visceral fat and adipocyte size f.relationship between gut microbiota composition and scfams-related parameters.

neither the plasma insulin levels after glucose challenge nor the triglyceride levels were affected by blag or bloj treatment in hfd-fed mice supplementary fig.

mice were fed a normal diet 10 of calories from fat d12450b research diet inc. normal group n 12 or a hfd 45 of calories from fat d12451 research diets inc.. after 2 weeks the hfd-fed mice were divided into hfd-fed control n  12 and blag-treated n  12 groups based on their body weights.

in the present study blag treatment resulted in the elevation of both plasma and caecal acetate levels 4ab in conjunction with improved glucose tolerance and less body fat accumulation.

it appears unlikely that intestinal integrity microbial diversity or the bacteroidetesfirmicutes ratio is involved in the anti-ms effects mediated by blag treatment.in conclusion b. lactis gcl2505 a highly viable and proliferative probiotic exerted anti-ms effects such as improved glucose tolerance and the suppression of visceral fat accumulation via changes in the overall bacterial structure of the gut microbiota and elevations in the levels of scfas especially acetate.methodspreparation of bifidobacterium strains.

longum jcm1217t bloj which have different properties in the gut and intensively investigated their effects on metabolic parameters global changes in the gut microbiota and scfa levels in mice.

openreceived 28 july 2016accepted 26 january 2017published 02 march 2017a proliferative probiotic bifidobacterium strain in the gut ameliorates progression ofmetabolic disorders via microbiota modulation and acetate elevationryo aoki12 kohei kamikado1 wataru suda23 hiroshi takii1yumiko mikami1 natsuki suganuma1 masahira hattori24 yasuhiro koga5the gut microbiota is an important contributor to the worldwide prevalence of metabolic syndrome ms which includes obesity and diabetes.

thus modulation of the gut microbiota is considered an emerging strategy for controlling body weight and insulin sensitivity.indigestible carbohydrates derived from the diet are fermented by the gut microbiota and then finally con- verted to short-chain fatty acids scfas such as acetate propionate and butyrate.

plasma and caecal acetate levels were enzymatically measured in duplicate using a commercial kit acetate colorimetric assay kit sigma-aldrich.

glucose tolerance was significantly improved by blag treatment in hfd-fed mice 1c and obob mice experiment 3 supplementary fig.

