basically we do not under- stand at this stage what bacterial composition will lead to health versus disease and indeed it may differ from one individual to another.clinical practice interview dr. paul moayyedi in an interview with dr. roman jaeschke part 1135i think what we have become interested in in recent times is that there does seem to be bac- teria that can lie dormant for many years and then at some point cause disease.

dr. paul moayyedi in an interview with dr. roman jaeschke.

it is not sur- prising that all your immune system is focused on keeping the bacteria where they are in your gut and therefore if anything affects that balance it could lead to both gi disease but probably dis- eases outside the gi tract.so when we use the phrase microbiome do we mean the mass of bacteria that is inside us effectivelythe mass of organisms inside of us so bacteria vi- ruses fungi and protozoa.

it does seem to be important in a num- ber of gastrointestinal gi diseases and even dis- eases outside the gi tract.

this is a model that probably exists throughout the gi tract but we have yet to unpick in other ar- eas as in the stomach there are very little organ- isms because of the acid--which by the way he- licobacter pylori is resistant to--but in the low- er gi tract there is so many unpicking that new organism that could cause disease it is difficult.mcmaster perspective this interview is part of the mcmaster perspective collection.

paul moayyedi in an interview with dr. roman jaeschke part 1mucosa separating us from them.

the video can be viewed at published with modifications with permission from dr. paul moayyedi.how to cite moayyedi p jaeschke r. microbiome the beginning of understanding.

you can raise a mouse germ-free so there are no infec- tious organisms at all in the gi tract and those mice do live but they tend to be underweight tend to be difficult to maintain and generally are not as healthy as their colleagues who have bacteria.

paul moayyedi director of the division of gastroenterology department of medicine mcmaster university hamilton ontario canada previouslya professor of gastroenterology at health services research at the university of birmingham an editor of the upper gastrointestinal and pancreatic diseases cochrane group his academic interests include barrett's surveillance and treatment of gastric cancerdr.

moayyedi you are a world-famous gastroenter- ologist past editor of the american journal of gas- troenterology and person involved in numerous prac- tice guidelines in this area.

