they have been associated with the condition less consistently than has m. hominis although they occur a little more frequently and in larger numbers in women with bv than in those without the disease .as both m. hominis and ureaplasmas are found in bv with a variety of other bacteria also in large numbers the contri- bution if any of the mollicutes to development symptoms and sequelae of bv is difficult to judge.

this suggests that m. hominis prospers in the milieu created by the other bacteria perhaps synergistically with gardnerella vaginalis  and when this and other bacteria are eradicated so too is m. hominis perhaps as part of a biofilm.the role played by ureaplasmas in the development of bv is less well-defined.

women with bv not only have m. hominis in the vagina more often but also in much larger numbers up to 10000-fold more than women who do not have bv .

they are not a requirement.evidence for the association of m. genitalium with bv is controversial but in any case it probably behaves more inde- pendently of bv than does m. hominis.

the existence of m. hominis organisms in large numbers in the absence of bv is rare and consequently they alone in small numbers probably have no impact on the immediate outcome of pregnancy.a contributory role for ureaplasmas in inducing sptl through partial involvement in bv seems feasible but the task of disentangling any part that they might have from that of the other bacteria is immense.

in three studies e there was no evidence that m. genitalium played any part in bv while in a fourth study  the presence of m. genitalium in women was independently associated with bv being more common in women with bv than in those without the condition.

mollicutes in vaginal microbiology mycoplasma hominis ureaplasma urealyticum ureaplasma parvum and mycoplasma genitaliumdavid taylor-robinsonsection of infectious diseases wright-fleming institute faculty of medicine imperial college london st mary's campus norfolk place london w2 1pg ukreceived 7 october 2016 accepted 22 february 2017available online 2 march 2017abstractmycoplasma hominis was isolated in 1937 from the human genital tract followed 17 years later by ureaplasma urealyticum and 27 years after that by mycoplasma genitalium.

thus m. hominis was recovered from the vagina of almost 90 of mice treated with oestradiol persisting in some cases for more than 200 days whereas m. hominis was isolated transiently from only 10 of untreated mice .

m. hominis organisms increase hugely in number in the case of bacterial vaginosis bv and to a lesser extent so do ureaplasmas.

hominis organisms are detected in the later stage of bv development  that is when grade iii flora as defined by ison and hay and equivalent to stages 6e10 as defined by nugent et al.

interestingly although mycoplasmas are resistant to metronidazole this antibiotic is often effective in treating bv and in eliminating m. hominis .

this notion is prompted by the results of another study in which m. hominis organ- isms were detected in large numbers  105 colour-changing units in 18 of women who delivered between 26 and 34 completed weeks of gestation but in none of those who were delivered electively at the same gestational age for feto- maternal indications p  0.05. accordingly one might conjecture that this mycoplasma alone could have an impor- tant role in the occurrence of sptl and ptb but it is more sensible to believe that its role should be considered in the context of the many other bacteria that are an integral part of bv.

this notion is exemplified by vaginal mi- crobial patterns changing over the course of a menstrual cycle and the signs of bv together with g. vaginalis and m. hominis gradually disappearing during the course of a preg- nancy  possibly due to a hormonal change and 2 the requirement for microbiological studies to be based on quan- titative assessments of micro-organisms rather than qualitative ones .

m. hominis organisms increase hugely in number in bv and to a lesser extent so do ureaplasmas.

the abnormality is dominated by bv the results of a number of studies having shown that women in whom bv is detected are significantly more likely to have a ptb or late miscarriage e. in this as mentioned before the normal lactobacillus-dominated vaginal microflora is replaced by one in which various bacteria exist in profusion.

