a 1997 review of studies reporting the prevalence of cough among primary school children undertaken in the decades after introduction of antibiotics  included a 1996 study from poland that reported prevalence of chronic cough of 31.9 a 1996 study from the usa reporting 27.4 with a persistent cough a 1995 study from the netherlands reporting chronic cough in 12.6 of children a study from israel reporting chronic cough with sputum in 8.1 a 1992 study from italy giving a prevalence of cough and phlegm in 5.5 and a canadian study reporting chronic cough with phlegm in 5.3. as noted above bronchiectasis and by inference pbb is common in south east asia and indigenous populations.

even excluding those who appeared to have asthma 3.8 of the population had non- asthma related chronic bronchitis which makes it a significant cause of morbidity.a well-designed community-based study is urgently required to assess current levels of symptoms and to determine with greater accuracy the prevalence and natural history of conditions such as pbb in childhood.information from studies conducted in secondary carea number of studies published in the past decade involving children referred to secondary care with respiratory symptoms such as chronic cough difficult asthma or recurrent chest infections identified bacterial bronchitis to be perhaps the commonest diagnosis in those with a persistent wet cough 8 51-. a study involving 190 young children in whom the diagnosis was made after referral to secondary care  found that 80 had made 5 or more visits to the doctor in the previous 12 months and 53 had made 10 or more visits prior to referral supporting the suggestion that the condition is under-recog- nized in primary care.

indeed clinicians have been recommending that patients with a chronic bronchitis move to warm dry climates should conventional therapy fail since at least the early nineteenth century.resolution and natural historythe elephant in the room in this field is if pbb is a true entity that may sooner or later lead to the development of radiologically diagnosed bronchiectasis why do most of the subjects appear to be pre-school children with relatively few presenting at a later age this would suggest that children who are symptomatic for extended periods of time are able to recover as the number of viral lrti falls and their immunity develops which is consistent with the observation above.

whooping cough in school age children with persistent cough prospective cohort study in primary care.

cough 2006 211. doseear m wensley d. chronic cough and wheeze in children do they all have asthma eur respir j 1997 10342-5. domarchant jm masters ib taylor sm cox nc seymour gj chang ab.

understanding the complex interaction between the host and the microbial communities of the conducting airways in health and disease will be a key component in optimizing pulmonary health in the future.keywords protracted bacterial bronchitis recurrent bronchitis bronchiectasis chronic cough endobronchial infectionintroductionour understanding of the role of bacteria in pulmonary disease is undergoing a transformation that will hopefully in time take pulmonary medicine into a new era of clarity regarding pulmonary health and disease.

the advent of antibiotics was associated with a rapid reduction in both the number of children admitted to hospital with bronchiectasis  and the number of children being diagnosed with bronchiectasis due to causes other than cystic fibrosis cf and immunodeficiency such that many considered it an orphan disease from a by-gone era at least in developed countries .

a recent study which demonstrated the presence of biofilms in the lower airways of children with non-cf bronchiectasis also highlighted that the biofilms were often not present in the first lavage presumably due to attachment of the biofilm to the epithelial surface .conventional microbiology is in part a subjective area and the author has long divided each bal sample knowing that commonly the same sample will produce a positive culture and a negative culture.studies repeatedly report that approximately 25-30 of samples from children with a presumed pbb do not culture a pathogen.

ers task force document protracted bacterial bronchitis in children tf-2015-03.

a more pragmatic response may be to accept that a persistent endobronchial infection may be due to one of the major risk factors which almost inevitably lead to the development of persistent or recurrent bacterial bron- chitis such as cf pcd and agammaglobulinemia or one of the many conditions that predispose but do not inevitably lead to development of the condition such as aspiration chemotherapy bronchomalacia poorly controlled asthma large left-to-right cardiac shunt pertussis mild impairments of innate and adaptive immunity heavy exposure to tobacco smoke persistent foreign body etc..throughout the past two centuries physicians have empha- sized the role of poverty and the related overcrowding poor nutrition and poor air in the development of chronic bronchitis in children--these factors still appear to be relevant at least in indigenous and less developed countries .

at the very least the epithelial structure including cilia must recover and data from the literature suggest that recovery of ciliated epithelium after a brief acute viral infection which is characterized by intense neutrophilic inflammation can take weeks to months to fully recover .hence it is perhaps not surprising that a bacterial bronchitis is frequently re-established given that the major predisposing factor for a pbb is impaired mucocillary clearance that the upper airways of children are often colonized by potential respiratory pathogens and that oro-pharyngeal content is likely to be regularly aspirated.

characteristics of children with endoscopically proved chronic bronchitis.

outcomes in children treated for persistent bacterial bronchitis.

bronchiectasis in children orphan disease or persistent problem pediatr pulmonol 2002 33492-6. dotaussig lm smith sm blumenfeld r. chronic bronchitis in childhood what is it pediatrics 1981 671-5.nikolaizik wh warner jo.

outcomes in children with protracted bacterial bronchitis confirmed by bronchoscopy.

