these findings coupled with the lack of transmembrane pgrps and key signaling molecules suggest that a non-canonical imd pathway exists in ticks.other immune signaling pathwaysthe janus kinasesignal transducer and activator of transcription jakstat pathway is not part of the humoral innate response in insects but does have a role in immunity through crosstalk with imd and toll signaling   .

taken together these studies provide evidence for a functional imd pathway in ticks.drosophila pgrp-lc and pgrp-le are imd pathway receptors   and pgrp-sd is an imd co-receptor  .

ticks lack several key components of the imd pathway such as transmembrane pgrps imd dfadd and imd pathway-specific amps          .

vectors 8 632. costa a. jan e. sarnow p. and schneider d. 2009. the imd pathway is involved in antiviral immune responses in drosophila.

the toll pathway responds primarily to gram-positive bacteria and fungi whereas the imd pathway recognizes gram-negative bacteria  .

moreover tick defensins are secreted in response to both gram-positive and negative bacteria suggesting that there may be a similar mechanism of cross-talk in non-insect arthropods   .the imd pathwaydiaminopimelic acid dap-type peptidoglycan from gram- negative bacteria stimulates the imd pathway in drosophila which is recognized by both transmembrane and soluble pgrps    .

2016. comparative genomic study of arachnid immune systems indicatesloss of beta-13-glucanase-related proteins and the immune deficiency pathway.j.

pattern recognition receptors recognize pathogen-associated molecular patterns and induce humoral responses through the toll and immune deficiency imd pathways.

humoral immunity involves innate signaling cascades such as the toll and immune deficiency imd pathways.

herein we will discuss the current understanding of tick humoral signaling pathways in the context of disease transmission both with and without confounding factors such as coinfections and the microbiota.humoral immunitytwo of the best studied immune signaling cascades in arthropod immunity are the toll and imd pathways.

5 1175-1180. blumberg b. j. trop s. das s. and dimopoulos g. 2013. bacteria- and imd pathway-independent immune defenses against plasmodium falciparum in anopheles gambiae.

comparative analyses between insects and ticks reveal that while the toll pathway is conserved the imd network exhibits a high degree of variability.

in vitro challenge of rhipicephalus microplus with enterobacter cloacae micrococcus luteus and saccharomyces cerevisiae lead toupregulation of toll myd88 tube pelle and cactus suggesting pathway functionality  .drosophila transcriptional regulators controlled by the toll pathway dif and dorsal regulate the expression of defensin and other amps  .

despite lacking key components the imd pathway is functional in ticks   .

the i. scapularis relish is activated in response to anaplasma phagocytophilum infection and knocking down regulatory components from the imd pathway relish capsar uev1a and bendless lead to altered pathogen burden levels with both a. phagocytophilum and borrelia burgdorferi  .

