a vaccine can prevent episodes of mdd as well as being safe and well tolerated in the long term.the intestinal microbiota has been found to modulate anxiety-like behavior in rodents  but a literature search pubmed and clinicaltrials.gov found no vaccine tested in animal models of anxiety or undergoing clinical trials in anxi- ety disorders.taken together all the above arguments motivated us to explore the plausibility of a vaccine against mdd or anxiety disorders.what is a vaccine against depression or anxietythe term 'vaccination' was originally coined a long time ago to characterize the immunization against smallpox and usually refers to the administration of an antigenic material to stimu- late adaptive immunity to a pathogen .

therefore the development of a vaccine against depression or anxiety likely requires the previous identification of microorganisms suscep- tible to induce mdd or anxiety disorders in humans.depression or anxiety induced by microorganismsenteric bacterial pathogenslyte et al.

gov register found only one clinical trial of a vaccine tested against depression nct01533285 last accessed 6 october 2016. nct01533285 was an exploratory study investigating the effect of salmonella typhi vaccine typhim vi on depres- sive symptoms in patients with major depression.

expert opinion on biological therapyissn 1471-2598 print 1744-7682 online journal homepage vaccinating against depression or anxiety is it plausiblericardo p. garayto cite this article ricardo p. garay 2017 vaccinating against depression or anxiety is it plausible expert opinion on biological therapy 175 525-528 doi 10.108014712598.2017.1300654to link to this article accepted author version posted online 01 mar 2017. published online 10 mar 2017.article views 708view crossmark datafull terms  conditions of access and use can be found at expert opinion on biological therapy 2017 vol.

5 525-528editorialvaccinating against depression or anxiety is it plausiblericardo p. garayadepartment of life sciences cnrs centre national de la recherche scientifique paris france bpharmacology and therapeutics craven villemoisson-sur-orge francearticle history received 15 november 2016 accepted 24 february 2017keywords anxiety clinical trials depression faecal transplantation inflammation major depressive disorder microbiota probiotics vaccination vaccineintroductionin 2012 rook et al.

mono-association with blautia clostridium coc- coides the most dominant inhabitant of the human gut reduced the anxiety level .conclusionsthe plausibility of a vaccine against anxiety or depression requires the previous identification of the microorganisms susceptible to induce such mental disorders.

therefore the term 'vaccine' does not apply to the 'internet-based behavioral vaccine' developed to prevent adolescent depression  or to the anesthetic and antidepressant agent ketamine which was proposed as a 'vaccine for depression' .reber et al.

these and other emerging concepts regarding periodontal vaccine development could be of help in the search for a vaccine against some inflammatory forms of mdd.a biological preparation 'vaccine' could be prepared with the microbial candidates suggested by current  and future studies and then tested in patients with elevated c-reactive protein levels a marker of inflammatory forms of mdd.

expert opinionthe discovery of new medicinal agents is a 'show me' situation and no data were found in the literature showing therapeutic efficacy of a vaccine in mdd or anxiety disorders.

a pubmed search found no vaccine tested in animal models of depression.

periodontitis is also a polymicrobial infection and after years of experience in developing vaccines no periodontal vaccine trial has satisfied all the requirements of an ideal periodontal vaccine .

therefore the efficacy of such a vaccine should be tested in stabilized patients to prevent relapse of depressive episodes.care should be taken to avoid inflammatory reactions against the employed vaccines or to avoid adverse effectstable 1. commensal gut microbiota candidates for formulating a vaccine against major depressive disorder.phylumfamilyspecies or genusreferencesbproteobacteriaenterobacteriaceaecitrobacter koserihafnia alvei klebsiella pneumonia morganella morganiimaes et al.

development of a technology-based behavioral vaccine to prevent adolescent depression a health system integration model.

2303-313.beck t. a vaccine for depression ketamine's remarkable effect bolsters a new theory of mental illness.

more research is needed to identify andor characterize such kind of pathobionts potentially pathological microorganisms which under normal circumstances live as symbionts susceptible to induce depression or anxiety in humans.5.

