editorial commentthe microbiota and hiv shedding light on dark mattersjames j. goedert see related paper on page 857aids 2017 31863-865keywords aids feces hiv immune reconstitution microbiomethe gut which is the major reservoir of t lymphocytes suffers severe t-cell depletion when attacked by hiv.

revealed that hiv-mediated depletion of the gut's cd4th t cells results in low-grade steady leakage of gut microbes and metabolites into the circulation which drives immune activation and hiv replication and pathogenesis.the article by nowak et al.

in the current issue of aids adds to previous reports that are exploring the impact of hiv on the gut microbial population the microbiota as hiv-related immune deficiency affects virtually every other organ system the expectation is that it will also affect some or all of the immunologic metabolic nutritional structural and other functions of the gut microbiota complementing but also confounding these efforts is the expectation that the gut microbiota will be affected by antiretroviral therapy art just as it is by antibiotics metformin and other medications nowak et al.

correspondence to james j. goedert nci rockville maryland usa.e-mail received 5 january 2017 accepted 10 january 2017.issn 0269-9370 copyright q 2017 wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.863copyright c 2017 wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.864aids 2017 vol 31 no 6the observational studies published thus far have inconsistent findings although they do suggest that hiv has little short-term impact on the gut microbiota.

with chronic long-term hiv infection perhaps irrespective of art the general pattern may be for increased abundance of potential pathogens particularly fusobacteria and proteobacteria and correlations of these with mucosal or systemic immune activation and inflammation this would be consistent with the significantly increased translocation of proteobacteria rather than firmicutes or bacteroidetes taxa to mesenteric lymph nodes and liver that has been observed in rhesus macaques with chronic simian immunodeficiency virus siv infection the primary lesson for the future is to recognize the limitations of cross-sectional observational studies.

alteration of the microbiota affects hiv risk and pathogenesis.

in siv-infected asian macaques administration of a probiotic regimen and il-21 increased gut cd4th cells and gut th17 cells that are required for mucosal integrity with increased abundance of fecal lactobacillus and bifidobacteria taxa and decreased systemic markers of microbial translocation whether a similar approach will improve art-mediated immunologic recovery and reduce systemic immune activation in people will require a blinded clinical trial with a placebo or probiotic- untreated group fecal microbiota transplants are not recommended given the heterogeneity of the gut microbiota in patients with hiv and confounding by pretransplant antibiotic regimens in summary the gut microbiota is integral to human health and dysbiosis offers targets for disease amelioration or prevention.

microbial translocation is a cause of systemic immune activation in chronic hiv infection.

rectal microbiota among hiv-uninfected untreated hiv and treated hiv-infected msm in nigeria.

microbiome alterations in hiv infection a review.

effects of hiv immune deficiency and confounding on the distal gut microbiota.

hiv infection is associated with compositional and functional shifts in the rectal mucosal microbiota.

a compositional look at the human gastrointestinal microbiome and immune activation para- meters in hiv infected subjects.

dysbiosis of the gut microbiota is asso- ciated with hiv disease progression and tryptophan catabo- lism.

nat rev microbiol 2016 14 273-287. the microbiota and hiv goedert865wilson id nicholson jk.

