c control mice without any interference c-r recipient of control mice's microbiome p-r recipients of penicillin-treated mice's microbiome.

crypt loss and leukocytes infiltration were common in all groups but mice in penicillin group seemed to preserve more crypts e. metronidazole pre-treated mice however displayed more severe submucosal swelling when compared with oth- ers.

to test this we transplanted bacteria from caecal content of antibiotic treated mice to 3-week sfb-positive weanling mice through gavage.

secondly penicillin-treated mice were not deprived of all th17 cells which may preserve more pro- tective capacity in compare with the case of il-17 knock-out mice.

openreceived 18 october 2016accepted 25 january 2017published 08 march 2017low-dose penicillin exposure in early life decreases th17 and the susceptibility to dss colitis in mice through gut microbiota modificationshuang jin di zhao chenwen cai dongjuan song jun shen antao xuyuqi qiao zhihua ran  qing zhengantibiotic exposure in early life can lead to a significant change of the gut microbiota and may contribute to later onset of inflammatory bowel disease ibd.

we further examined the perturbation of gut microbiota and immune system by penicillin and demon- strated the protection was dependent on the eradication of segmented filamentous bacteria sfb in the intestine.resultslow-dose penicillin exposure in early life has a protective effect against later dss colitis in mice.

before dss treatment mice were exposed to low-dose penicil- lin metronidazole or enrofloxacin respectively in drinking water for 2 weeks followed by a 1-week wash-out phase 1a.

after dss treatment colitis symptoms occurred among all groups but penicillin pre-treated mice exhibited a significantly smaller decline of bodyweight which was most obvious on day 8 1b.

in all low-dose penicillin exposure in weanling mice seemed to play a protective role against dss colitis.

in order to understand the gut microbial profile under low-dose antibiotic pressure we applied 16s rrna gene analysis of fecal bacteria from mice treated with regular water low-dose penicillin or metronidazole the latter two with disparate inflammation phenotypes and il17 expression.

a study design 3-week weanling male c57bl6 mice were give low-dose antibiotic treatment for 2 weeks followed by a 1-week wash- out phase and then challenged with dss.

b body weight variation relative to baseline of mice challenged with dss.

c intestinal bleeding score changes of mice after dss challenge.

mice weresacrificed on day 9 n 5-6group.

each panel is representative of tissue from at least 5 mice.

