what are the direct mucosal cell types and functions targeted of this network for the microbiota and via what microbial products for example perhaps certain microbiota act on local enteroendocrine cells for serotonin production or by direct microbial metabolism of enteral tryptophan.

studies of asd patients with gastrointestinal dysfunction have been small scale to date but have associated this patient subset with increased levels of serotonin and certain microbial taxa although the latter findings have been inconsistent among studies.the study by luna et alin this issue of cellular and molecular gastroenterology and hepatology tightens the case for a microbial hub and serotonin and cytokine spokes in the gastrointestinal dysfunction of asd.

compared with asd-unaffected children children with asd and gastroin- testinal dysfunction had increased mucosal tissue levels of select microbial taxa mainly members of the genus clos- tridium.

third and most exciting is the simultaneous assessment of the mucosal ecosystem in single biopsy specimens including microbial composition and bioamine and cytokine production.

or others may elicit epithelial or mucosal he- matopoietic cell cytokine production that may in turn elicit mucosal bioamine secretion.

in the luna et al study mucosal production of cytokines and serotonin-pathway bioamines also were measured.

bio- informatic analysis established a layered network of re- lationships between these microbial taxa serotonin pathway metabolites and several inflammatory cytokines.

first its care in patient phenotypic selection gastrointestinal dysfunction and stratification of the pain subset and bio- specimen choice mucosal biopsy vs fecal ensure that the collected data are closest to the clinical state and biologic site in question.

second deep 16s metagenomic sequencing and optimized pre-analytic bioinformatics permit deeper resolution of microbial taxa.

such simultaneous measurement permits the follow-through with powerful bioinformatic analyses to construct potential functional relationships between microbiota and clinical relevant properties of the mucosal site.important and challenging questions loom as this path- ogenic ecologic network is advanced from association to causation.

