The present research was financially funded by Innovation Fund Denmark Project ELIN The effects of enterolignans in chronic diseases 0603- 00580B.ABBREVIATIONSEND enterodiol ENL enterolactone HPL- high plantlignan no antibiotic treatment in week 4 HPL high plant lignan antibiotic treatment in week 4 LPL low plant lignan CRP C-reactive protein HDL high-density lipoprotein Hydr 7-hydroxymatairesinol I-Lari iso-lariciresinol Lari lariciresi- nol LC-MS Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry LC-MSMS liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrom- etry LDL low-density lipoprotein LPL low plant lignan dietMata matairesinol Med medioresinol NSP nonstarch polysaccharides OTU operational taxonomy units PCA principal component analysis PCoA principal coordinates analysis Pino pinoresinol QIIME quantitative insight into microbiotal ecology SDG secoisolariciresinol diglucoside Seco secoisolariciresinol SPE solid phase extraction Syr syringaresinol UHPLC-MS ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometryREFERENCESSeibold P. Vrieling A. Johnson T. S. Buck K. Behrens S.Kaaks R. Linseisen J. Obi N. Heinz J. Flesch-Janys D. Chang- Claude J. Enterolactone concentrations and prognosis after postmenopausal breast cancer assessment of effect modification and meta-analysis.

This was despite the fact that the main plant lignan in the HPL diet was Syr a plant lignan shown to have a low ENL conversion rate.We speculate if the other plant lignans in the diet are responsible for the increased ENL plasma concentration or if conversion of Syr requires a microbiota adaptation possibly occurring in response to frequent intake of Syr to efficiently produce ENL which was not accounted for in the study by Heinonen et al.Furthermore we observe a time effect of lignan intake as the ENL concentration measured in the HPL- animals increased after intake of the HPL diet for 2 weeks compared with 1 week .

Interestingly the ENL postprandial plasma concentration in the HPL group although numerically lower was not significantly different from HPL- at any sampling site measured 3 h after breakfast .No significant difference in plant lignan concentration wasobserved between HPL- and HPL groups in either the fasting plasma or the urine samples and .Nontargeted Metabolomics of Plasma Digesta and Urine SamplesThe fasting plasma samples collected at week 4 and the cecal digesta and urine samples collected at slaughter were subjected to nontargeted LC-MS metabolomics.

LDA Least Discriminate Analysis LefSE LPL low plant lignan HPL high plant lignan HPL high plant lignin with antibiotics.found in human plasmaand urine samplesin which an inverse association between antibiotic use and ENL levels has been identified.In humans the lignan metabolism involves a broad range ofbacterial species reviewed in refs and  however the bacteria capable of producing ENL have been categorized to be subdominant members of the microbiota possibly constituting1 of the total microbiota.Thus far the species in pigs capable of converting plant lignans to ENL are unidentified but it is likely that as for humans the species in pigs are a specialized niche.

PCA-score plots for the metabolomics profiles of A plasma B cecal content and C urine from pigs fed low plant lignan LPL or high plant lignan HPL - antibiotic treatment.animals fed the LPL diet whereas total plant lignan concentration was 5 times higher.

dp-values for testing the effect of LPL and HPL in week 3. ep-values for testing the effect of LPL HPL- and HPL in week 4. fp-values for testing the effect of antibiotic treatment in HPL against HPL- in week 4. gTotal plant lignan is the sum of the plasma concentration of Mata Seco Lari I-Lari and Hydr.Table 3.

The positive correlation between plasma and urinary concentration ENL and other metabolites related to HPL intake and Streptococcus is interesting and should be further studied.No significant difference in ENL concentrations between HPL and HPL- animals was observed in the postprandial plasma and urinary samples collected 3 h after breakfast.

The most important dietary sources include grains seeds and vegetables with whole-grain cereals and vegetables being the most important contributors to lignan intake in the Nordic countries.-After ingestion plant lignans are either absorbed directlyfrom the small intestinal lumen and moved into circulationor passed through to the colon where the colonic microbiota can convert the lignans to enterolignans enterolignans enterodiol END and enterolactone ENL.The latter process requires an interaction of anaerobic bacteria that are distantly related indehydrogenation step of END to ENL.The critical role of the colonic microbiota in the metabolism of plant lignans to enterolignans was identified in one of the earliest reports on enterolignans in which urinary levels of ENL decreased immediately after intake of a wide-spectrum antibiotic.The link between the use of antibiotics and lower ENL concentration was later supported by cross-sectional and observational studies reporting inverse associations between use of antibiotics number of antibiotic treatments type of antibiotics and time from last treatment and ENL levels.- The biological activity of enterolignans may be linked to structural similarities to the endogenous 17-b-estradiol and depending on the biological levels of estradiol lignans can act as both estrogen antagonists and weak estrogens.- Moreover lignans exhibit the ability to act as potent antioxidants and to interact with sex-hormone-bindingterms of functionality and phylogeny.Although the pathways for converting plant lignan to ENL differ among the individual plant lignans the final step for many plant lignans is aReceived October 30 2016Published March 15 2017c 2017 American Chemical Society2135DOI globulins.The estrogenicity of ENL in particular may have an important role in upregulation of the LDL receptor activityand daily supplies of plant lignans resulted in lower blood cholesterol and LDL cholesterol in humans.

The general pattern seen in the postprandial concentrations of enterolignan and plant lignan was basically the same as at fasting  with increased enterolignan and plant lignan concentrations in the HPL fed animals.

However the improved lipid profile induced by high plant lignan intake was not affected by the antibiotic treatment and the associated lower ENL concentration which could suggest that ENL is not the only component driving the health-associated effects linked to high lignan intake.ASSOCIATED CONTENTS Supporting InformationThe Supporting Information is available free of charge on the at DOI .Table S1 Least squares means of fasting inflammatory markers lipids and enzymes measured after 3 weeks on a low plant lignan diet or 1 week LPL followed by 2 weeks on high plant lignan with or without antibiotic treatment for the last 7-9 days.

