Values that are significantly different for control animals  or DON-exposed animals  versus E. coli WT-colonized animals exposed to DON by one-way ANOVA with Bonferroni's multiple comparisons are indicated by symbols as follows  P  0.05  and  P  0.01  and  P  0.000  P  0.001 group exposed to 2 mg  kg-1 of DON versus group exposed to 10 mg  kg-1 of DON in panel A  P  0.05 E. coli WT-colonized animals exposed to DON for 2 weeks versus E. coli WT-colonized animals exposed to DON for 4 weeks in panel B.after a 4-week exposure to the food contaminant .

Although DON had no effect on the composition of the gut microbiota and especially on the num- ber of E. coli a significant increase in DNA damage was observed in intestinal epi- thelial cells of animals colonized by E. coli strains producing colibactin and coex- posed to DON compared to animals colonized with E. coli strains unable to produce colibactin or animals exposed only to DON.

Using both in vitro and in vivo experiments we demonstrated that DON exacerbates the intestinal DNA damage induced by genotoxic strains of E. coli.RESULTSGenotoxicity of DON and colibactin-producing E. coli on intestinal epithelial cells.

DON alone did not exert detectable genotoxicity on IEC-6 cells except at high doses 12.5 to 50 uM for at least 8 h where low levels of -yH2AX were observed 2.27 - 0.22 relative fluorescence units RFU in control cells versus 4.64 -1.37 and 5.21 - 1.30 RFU in cells treated with 25 uM and 50 uM DON respectively P 0.05 and P  0.001 respectively  see Fig.

To determine whether the genotoxic effect of colibactin can be modulated by exposure to the food contaminant DON IEC-6 cells were infected with a low dose of E. coli WT MOI of 25 and coexposed to DON 25 uM.

Values that are significantly different from the values for cells infected with colibactin-producing E. coli and exposed to DON with all other groups by one-way ANOVA with Bonferroni's multiple-comparison correction are indicated by asterisks as follows  P  0.05  P  0.01  P  0.001.FIG 3 Exposure to DON does not impact intestinal colonization by E. coli and the overall composition of the intestinal microbiota.

This exacerbation was dependent on the dose of DON  and was observed only when DON was present for 8 h during and after infection Fig.

To verify that DON did not modulate the physiology or gene expression in E. coli the effects of DON on bacterial growth and expression of the pks island genes were evaluated.

Treatment of E. coli with increasing doses of DON for 24 h had no effect on bacterial growth nor did it modify the expression of genes of the pks island coding for enzymes required for the production of colibactin data not shown.Contamination of the diet with DON does not impair the colonization of the gut by E. coli strains producing colibactin or not producing colibactin.

After weaning the rats were fed for 4 weeks with a diet contaminated with DON or not contaminated with DON Fig.

