therefore microbiota alterations provoked by oral abx were temporary and the maintenance of a moderate dysbiosis in tmev-mice during the autoimmune stage of the disease is con- sistent with some of the proposed alterations in the gut microbiota of patients with ms.several experimental studies have focused on the contribution of the microbiota to ms pathogenesis using different variants of eae.

hence we set out to examine i whether intracranial tmev infection alters the commensal microbiota ii whether altering the microbial load through oral administration of broad-spectrum abx affects the immune responses to brain infection with tmev during the acute phase of tmev-idd and iii the impact of early abx treatment on the outcome and severity of the disease at chronic stages.resultscns infection with tmev is associated with changes in the commensal microbiota.

indeed at the chronic phase the relative abundance of streptococcus phylum firmicutes was reduced in tmev-mice while alistipes phylum bacteroidetes and eubacterium phylum firmicutes were increased compared to sham 1b.gut microbiota changes not only by environment but also throughout lifespan then we studied the microbiota composition along time 14 28 and 85 dpi in sham and tmev-mice and compared the alterations of relative abundance of microbiota between both groups as summarized.

overall data indicate that the cerebral infection with tmev induces subtle but significant changes in the gut microbiota at the time points analyzed.oral treatment with abx on the acute phase of tmev-idd affects the commensal microbiota on the course of the disease.

despite the recovery of microbiota diversity tmev-abx mice show significant variations in the abundance of bacterial population at genus level within each of the main phyla f. accordingly at 85 dpi early abx increased the relative abundance of allobaculum phylum firmicutes and bifidobacterium phylum actinobacteria while decreased odoribacter phylum bacteroidetesfigure 1. theiler's virus induces changes in the gut microbiota of susceptible sjlj mice.

our findings support the bidirectional communication brain-gut axis showing not only that intracranial infection with tmev induces changes in the gut microbiota but also that depleting microbiota by oral abx induces changes in the neuroim- mune responses to tmev.

the innate immune response can activate apcs including microgliaand directly contribute to the activation of virus-specific t cells responses which mediatefigure 4. the depletion of microbiota by abx treatment increases microglial reactivity in the brain of tmev infected mice on the acute phase.

here oral abx depleted the intestinal microbiota and two weeks after abx cessation recolonization was observed 2a.

sham mice with and without abx treatment showed a resting microglia morphology e.figure 2. abx treatment modifies the microbiota of tmev-infected mice.

fecal pellets were collected at the end of abx treatment day 14 two weeks later day 28 and in the chronic autoimmune phase of the disease model evidence of clinical symptoms day 85. a stacked bar charts of the relative abundance of major phyla the three time points in the microbiota of tmev-infected mice treated with abx or vehicle.

quantification of t cells revealed that abx diminished the number of cd4 5d and cd8 cells  without reaching statistical significance partially consistent with the facs data.

in addition flow cytometry analysis showed that oral abx did not modify th-17 cells within the pleyer's patches pp compared to tmev-mice f.oral abx treatment enhances microglial activation in response to tmev infection on the acute phase.

theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus induced demyelinating disease tmev-idd is a model of progressive ms. here we first analyze the effect of intracerebral infection with tmev on commensal microbiota and secondly whether the early microbiota depletion influences the immune responses to tmev on the acute phase 14 dpi and its impact on the chronic phase 85 dpi.

similarly the treatment with antibiotics modulates the gut microbi- ota and attenuates eae progression by inducing t b and ink treg responses.although one of the more established functions of the gut microbiota is to constitute a barrier that prevents the entry of external pathogens some viral infections have been known to use the microbiota to their advantage.

here the depletion of microbiota influences the course of tmev-idd in terms of mortality which is likely to be related to the presence of microbiota of an inflammatory profile at the specific time point of 28 dpi although we cannot demonstrate this in an unequivocal way for obvious reasons.

