molecular and genetic studies of the past decade showed that lichens also harbor diverse bacterial communities which can form biofilm-like structures on specific parts of the lichen thallus and which seem to be species-specific.-lichens can also be cocolonized by lichenicolous fungi which are host-specific commensals or parasites or saprotrophs.the lichen thallus often comprises a stratifiedthe photobiont provides photosynthetically produced sugars to the fungus.-the epiphytic lung lichen lobaria pulmonaria predominantly grows on old deciduous trees in areas with low as well high rainfall preferably in coastal but also in alpine regions and has turned out to be a suitable indicator for ecosystem health forest biodiversity and continuity in europe.-while occupying a wide range in the holoarctic across temperate and boreal zonesl.

these results are in good agreement with our previous integrated meta-omics analyses of l. pulmonaria and a recent metagenome analysis.figure 6. schematic presentation and advanced model of potential functions and interactions within the l. pulmonaria lichen based on published knowledge and data of the here presented proteome analysis.moreover these data support the findings of cardinale et al.who suggested a relatively stable core microbiome of lobaria independent of the region in which the lichen has been growing.the concentration protocol led to an increase in the methylobacteriaceae and xanthobacteriaceae indicating that these bacteria might possibly be loosely associated with the lichen thalli.

thus the state-of-the-art metaproteome analyses not only led to a significant increase in metaproteome coverage of the lung lichen l. pulmonaria but also added novel information to common knowledge on the lichen holobiont and especially on the diverse and important functions contributed by the lichen bacterial microbiome.associated contents supporting informationthe supporting information is available free of charge on the at doi .figure s-1.

as assessed by state-of-the-art metaproteomicschristine eymann christian lassekuwe wegnerjorg bernhardtole arno fritsch stephan fuchsandreas ottodirk albrechtulf schiefelbeintomislav cernavaines aschenbrennergabriele bergmartin grubeand katharina riedelinstitute of microbiology ernst-moritz-arndt-university greifswald de-17487 greifswald germanyblucherstrasse 71 de-18055 rostock germanyssinstitute of environmental biotechnology graz university of technology a-8010 graz austriainstitute of plant sciences university of graz a-8010 graz austria introductionlichen symbioses have been commonly recognized as very old symbiotic relationships between algae and fungi that arose in the lower devon.at least two very different organisms a heterotrophic fungus mycobiont and an autotrophic photo- synthetic partner photobiont generally green algae andor cyanobacteria account for the structure of the lichen holobiont and also enable the lichen to survive extreme unfavorable conditions.

on the peninsula darss born germany n 54deg26' e 12deg29' lichen 1 and n 54deg26' e 12deg29' lichen 2 in march 2015 averaged air temperature per month 10.7 degc year's rainfall 554 mm frosty days 31 at rostock after the removal of visible external organisms e.g.

a total amount of 300 mg of lichen thalli respectively was shock-frozen with liquid nitrogen and subsequently processed as shown in b. the lichen collected in johnsbach was analyzed in total moreover itsbacterial microbiome was concentrated to specifically extractbacterial proteins.

map adapted with permission from ref .c eea 2012. b workflow of sample preparation of the unprocessed l. pulmonaria sample johnsbach austria styria 1 and concentration of bacterial microbiome of the two different sampling sites johnsbach austria styria 1 and born germany darss 2 and 3.entire lichen samples and the concentrated microbiomes were performed as previously described.for the concentration of bacterial cells lichen pieces were transferred into 15 ml falcon tubes and resuspended in 4 degc-cooled 0.85 nacl in a 17 mv ratio.

as shown in  the total percentage of bacteria darss 59 styria 45 was significantly increased at the expense of the fungal proteins in the microbiome-concentrated samples compared with theunprocessed lichen samples collected in styria 24. it is interesting to note that the portion of eukaryota other than fungi or green algae which are probably contaminations as well as of green algae was nearly the same independent of the sample preparation protocol .on the level of proteobacteria or alphaproteobacteria the composition of microbiomes of both locations showed no difference between the samples nor in comparison with the nontreated lichen sample data not shown.

moreover a streptomycin 6-kinase and type vii secretion protein ecce were assigned to streptomy- cetales present in both lichen microbiomes concentrated from the darss and styria samples see  darss sample.discussioncompared with our pioneering lichen proteomics analyses in which in total 463or 4405unique proteins or protein groups were assigned to different phylogenetic and functional groups 6590 proteinsprotein groups could be assigned in the present study.

the fact that different hydrolytic enzymes appeared to be produced by the lichen microbiome suggests an important role of the bacteria in the degradation and recycling of senescent lichen thalli.although a significant portion of the microbiome was assigned to the order rhizobiales containing at least five classes of nitrogen-fixing bacteria no proteins were found to contribute to nitrogen fixation.

this might be due to diverse environmental factors such as season humidity temperature or insolation which differed between the two sites that is the averaged air temperature per month was significantly lower in the alps of austria than on the peninsula darss.conclusionsour integrated metaproteomics analyses demonstrate that the mapping of the comprehensive lichen protein inventory can strongly contribute to a better understanding of the functional contributions of all participants in the lichen symbioses summarized in  which is not restricted to the classic view of lichens as dual and merely fungal-algal partnerships.

symbiotic interplay of fungi algae and bacteria within the lung lichen lobaria pulmonaria l. hoffm.

pulmonaria is a tripartite lichen symbiosis which consists of three main partners 1 the mycobiont formed by ascomycetous fungi 2 the photobiont predominantly built by the green alga dictyochloropsis reticulata and 3 the cyanobiont belonging to the order nostocales located in closed structures so-called cephalodia.l.

pulmonaria develops large leaf-like thalli under appropriate environmental conditions.fungal structure with peripheric layers formed by a fungal mesh glued together in an extracellular matrix that shelters an internal layer dominated by the algal partner.under these conditionsreceived november 11 2016published march 14 2017c 2017 american chemical society2160doi first insights into the structure function and interaction between the single partners of the l. pulmonaria holobiont were gained by an initial metaproteomics approach analyzing the whole protein composition of the lichen thallus.this study for which l. pulmonaria samples have been collected in the swiss alps demonstrated the dominance of fungal proteins 75 of all assigned spectra but also a significant proportion of prokaryotic 10 of all assigned spectra and green algal 9 of all assigned spectra proteins.

on the basis of these achievements we were encouraged to deepen our metaproteomics analysis which was expected to result in a significantly higher number of reliably assigned proteins and thus was believed to extend our knowledge on structure function and interactions of the lung lichen l. pulmonaria.

