In non-CNS tumors melanoma NSCLC renal cancer prostate cancer and colorectal cancer it was shown that patients with PD-L1 expression on tumors had a better response to anti-PD-1 antibody than did those without this phenotype.Another study also showed a positive correlation between the presence of PD- L1 on cancer cells and PD-1 on tumor- infiltrating lymphocytes TILs.

The involvement of LAG-3 in promoting cancer growth has been implicated in NSCLC hepatocellular cancer ovarian cancer triple-negative breast cancer gastrointestinal stromal tumors and mel- anoma.

IL-4 receptors IL-4R are also overexpressed in multiple cancer types including GBM rendering them as a conceivable cancer biomarkers and therapeutic targets.For instance it has been shown that elevated IL-4 in patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma iscorrelated with greater recurrence and lower survival.

To prevent inappropriate T cell activity coinhibitory signals can induce T cell apoptosis or T cell exhaustion which is a temporary inhibition of T cell activity.Cancer cells can take advantage of this system to evade immune surveillance.

Considering that not all patients respond to anti-PD-1 or anti-CTLA-4 therapy more studies have concentrated on alternative checkpoint molecules and combination therapies.TIM-3 is a surface protein expressed on Th1 cells that modulates immune sup- pression by binding to galectin 9 its ligand to induce T cell apoptosis.In murine models of multiple solid cancers including melanoma breast cancer and colon cancer the expression of TIM-3 was found to be increased along with PD-1 in TILs with features of exhaustion.

It inhibits CD4 and CD8 T cell activation allowing gliomas to avoid immune-mediated attack.In mouse models of GBM PD-1 blockade led to better T cell infiltration into cancer tissue and a subsequent in- crease in survival.Anti-PD-1 drugs are being tested clinically in patients with GBM.

This technology can be used to study minute differences in cell phenotypes allowing more precise understanding of cancer pathogenesis.To assess for immune cell activation enzyme-linked immunospot can be used to detect cytokine production.

It is possible that the initial upregulation must be accompanied by other markers of the appropriate condition before the inhibitory pathway is activated.In head and neck cancer for example increased PD-1 expression alone was associated with immune activation but the presence of programmed death ligand 1 PD-L1 on cancer cells was also required to induce immunosuppression.

Compared with normal tissue cancer cells have been shown to upregulate CD105 establishing it as a useful cancer biomarker with therapeutic value.

Biomarkers and Immunotherapeutic Targets in GlioblastomaAlice L. Hung Tomas Garzon-Muvdi Michael LimKey wordsBiomarkersCheckpoint moleculesCytokinesGlioblastomaImmunotherapyMicrobiomeMutational landscapeAbbreviations and Acronyms CB Cintredekin besudotox CNS Central nervous systemCTLA-4 Cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4CyTOF Cytometry by time-of-flight EGFR Epidermal growth factor receptors FACS Fluorescence-activated cell sorting GBM GlioblastomaGlioblastoma GBM is an aggressive central nervous system cancer with poor prognosis despite maximal therapy.

