in support of this in shallow-water corals increased bacterial diversity with increasing water depth has been suggested as a mechanism to aid nutrient acquisition.studies of red sea corals along with those in the persianarabian gulf are of interest in light of global climate change because corals in this region thrive at summer temperatures 31 degc that are hostile for corals from other regions.

email dendrophyllia sp.6e.fistular.typus173819471712441 4512121171110075others piscirickettsiaceae rhodospirillaceae vibrionaceae50unclassified order flavobacterialespseudoalteromonadaceae moraxellaceae pseudomonadaceae rhodobacteraceae25flavobacteriaceaeunclassified class gammaproteobacteriaalteromonadaceaeunclassified phylum proteobacteria0figure 1. bacterial community composition of deep-sea corals and seawater from the red sea on the bacterial family level greengenes database bootstrap 60. pie charts denote average bacterial abundance across replicates for the three coral species.

these studies support the presence of species-specific microbiomes but at the same time identified highly variable bacterial community structures depending on phenotype spatial and temporal scales and even on individual polyps within a colony.to gain insight into bacterial community structure associated with deep-sea scleractinian corals from the red sea we conducted a 16s rrna gene survey on specimens from e. fistula dendrophyllia sp.

we were interested to elucidate how bacterial association differs between coral hosts and also whether we find support for a bacterial contribution to functional adaptation to the distinct environment of the red sea.resultsmicrobial community composition of deep-sea corals and surrounding seawater.

all corals exhibited species-specific bacterial associations and specific bacterial taxa provide support to the notion that bacteria contribute to environmental adaption of their coral hosts.

openreceived 30 november 2016accepted 13 february 2017published 17 march 2017microbial community composition of deep-sea corals from the red sea provides insight into functional adaption to a unique environmenttill rothig lauren k.yum stephan g. kremb anna roik  christian r. voolstramicrobes associated with deep-sea corals remain poorly studied.

the discovery of deep-sea corals at this temperature prompted a reconsideration of environmental limitations of deep-sea corals previously considered to be limited to temperatures of 4-14 degc.

this was substantiated by amova analysis which showed that coral were significantly different from seawater pamova 0.002. to further test whether differences between corals exist we excluded seawater and performed a permanova across corals.

here we employed 16s rrna gene sequencing to study bacterial communities of three deep-sea scleractinian corals from the red sea dendrophyllia sp.

in order to identify differences in the bacterial community composition between different deep-sea corals sequences were subsam- pled and clustered into otus operational taxonomic units t1.

in addition this bacterial family includes denitrifiers supporting efficient nitrogen cycling in corals.

deep sea research part ii topical studies in oceanography 99 36-41 2014.gray m. a. stone r. p. mclaughlin m. r.  kellogg c. a. microbial consortia of gorgonian corals from the aleutian islands.fems microbiology ecology 76 109-120 2011.kellogg c. a. ross s. w.  brooke s. d. bacterial community diversity of the deep-sea octocoral paramuricea placomus.

peerj 4e2529 2016.penn k. wu d. eisen j. a.  ward n. characterization of bacterial communities associated with deep-sea corals on gulf of alaska seamounts.

inter- and intra-habitat bacterial diversity associated with cold-water corals.

to evaluate bacterial community composition across samples we classified all sequences to the family level 1. the bacterial community composition of coral samples was markedly different from seawater samples that appeared similar across sampling sites 1. coral community composition differed in a species-specific manner with apparent within-species variation 1.differences and similarities within and between coral species and seawater.

