Although more than 60 distinct drugs are available to lower BP less than half of the treated hypertensives reach the currently recommended BP targets.

showed that BP was not different between germ-free and conventionally raised mice which is consistent with previous observations describing no effect in BP after dramatic reduc- tion in fecal microbial biomass induced by antibiotic treatment .

Stimulation of Olfr78 elevates BP whereas stimulation of GRP41 lowers BP.

Because Ffar3 induces vasodilatation in response to SCFAs and subsequently reduces BP  these expressional data support the suggestion that altered SCFA receptors inaorta may play a role in elevated BP of the SHR.

In the nine trials included probiotic consumption sig- nificantly lowered systolic BP by 3.56 mmHg and diastolic BP by 2.38 mmHg compared with the control groups.

This meta-analysis suggests that consuming probiotics may im- prove BP by a modest degree with a potentially greater effect when baseline BP is elevated multiple species of probiotics are consumed the duration of intervention is 8 weeks ordaily consumption dose is 1011 CFU.ConclusionSeveral questions would be addressed.

Treatment with any commonly used antihypertensive regimen reduces the risk of total major cardiovascular events the larger the reductions in blood pressure BP are the larger the reductions in risk are .

Furthermore an esti- mated 10-30 of the general hypertensive population present resistant hypertension defined as high BP not adequately con- trolled by three antihypertensive agents from different classes one of them a diuretic .BP is determined by the following three main factors vas- cular smooth muscle cell VSMC tone cardiac function and renal Na excretion and plasma and total body volume which control peripheral vascular resistances PVRs cardiac output and intravascular volume respectively.

Current guidelines for the management of arterial hyperten- sion propose lifestyle measures including dietary approaches in all patients including those who require drug treatment.The purpose of these lifestyle measures is to lower BP to control other risk factors and to reduce the number or the dose of antihypertensive drugs .

Therefore there is an urgent need for alternative strategies.In recent years gut microbiome dysbiosis has been associ- ated with hypertension  although the mechanisms in- volved in the BP control by the microbiota has not been fully elucidated.

