this results in an imbalance in mirobiota dysbiosis which in turn may ultimately bring about alterations in neuronal function namely pain sensations 5.infants with colic have decreased faecal-bacterial diver- sity and stability compared with the infants without colic and they also have higher faecal counts of gram-negative bacteria especially coliform bacteria 4. the numbers of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria have also been reported to be reduced in colic in comparison with the healthy infants 4. it is important to note that all the studies have focusedon the gut microbiota composition of breast-fed infants with colic and there are no data on formula-fed infants.in this issue of acta paediatrica a cross-sectional study by savino et al.

could not confirm the earlier findings concerning bifidobacteria and lactic acid bacteria 4. in our opinion this further research would be worth doing despite the fact that breastfeeding has not been shown to provide a protective effect on the develop- ment of infantile colic and the incidence of infant colic is similar among formula-fed and breast-fed infants 7.editorialeditorialone of the most promising new advances in the management of infant colic is using probiotics to modulate the gut microbiota especially lactobacillus reuteri dsm 17938 which has been proven to be effective in breast-fed infants with colic 8. however it is intriguing that the largest trial so far and the only study to include formula-fed infants is the only one that has showed lactobacillus reuteri to be ineffective in treating colic 9. based on the savino et al.

however at the moment the data are too limited for reliable conclusions about the probiotic effect on formula-fed infants with colic.in a population-level analysis of gut microbiome varia- tions the use of any medication showed the largest explanatory value for microbiome variations while stool consistency showed the largest effect size 10. these two factors were possible confounding factors in the current study as all the infants with colic were on simethicone 100 or cimetropium 92 while only 5 of the control infants without colic were on simethicone 6. moreover savino et al.

did not report the stool consistency of the infants in the study although they speculated that the infants with colic infants might have had minor water content in their faeces compared with controls based on the lower total faecal-bacteria counts in their samples.

this showed that the faeces of infants with colic contained a lower number of total bacteria than the infants without colic together with a relative abundance of escherichia coli group bacteria and higher levels of ammonia.

however there were no differ- ences in the number of bifidobacteria or lactobacillus- enterococcus group between the groups.these new data on formula-fed colic infants are in linewith the earlier studies on breast-fed infants except for the findings regarding bifidobacteria and lactic acid bacteria.

bifidobacteria have been reported to dominate the gut microbiota of breast-fed infants while the microbiota in the guts of formula-fed infants have been reported to be more diverse.

's latest work 6 the type of feeding may influence the gut microbiota composition of infants with colic and thus contributing to the ineffectiveness of the probiotic in formula-fed infants.

6 aims to help fill this gap in the knowledge by comparing the gut microbiota composition of 77 formula-fed infants with and without colic.

all the infants were born at full- term and aged between two and 16 weeks during the study period.

therefore a future study comparing the gut microbiota composition between breast-fed and formula-fed colic infants needs to be carried out in order to find out whether the type of feeding might hold the answer to why savino et al.

the covariates of medication and stool consistency have largely been ignored by studies but they might play a significant role in the composition of the gut microbiota and should be taken into account in future clinical studies including those studying infants who have colic.despite its shortcomings the study by savino et al.

6 is important and supports the idea that the composition of gut microbiota in both breast-fed and formula-fed infants differs from that in healthy controls.

it is hoped that these methods will provide us with a more comprehensive understanding of the host-microbe interactions in infants with colic and enable us to develop novel options to prevent and treat this common and burdensome problem.anna paeurrtty akleinutu.fi marko kalliomaeurki department of pediatrics and adolescent medicine university of turku and turku university hospitalturku finlandreferenceswessel m cobb j jackson e. paroxysmal fussing in infancy sometimes called colic.

comparison of formula-fed infants with and without colic revealed significant differences in total bacteria enterobacteriaceae and faecal ammonia.

