intriguingly scfas are known to induce vasorelaxation - so it may be that scfas acting on gpr41 in the vascular endothelium help to set vascular tone.an integrated view of scfas scfa receptors and blood pressure regulationan experiment which highlights the dual roles of these two receptors in blood pressure regulation was a study in which blood pressure was measured in wild-type and olfr78 ko mice before and after treatment with a mixture of anti- biotics .

in this review we will consider recent studies linking scfas to blood pressure regulation.recent findings several recent studies have found that changes in blood pressure often coordinate with expected changes in scfas.

intriguingly mice null for olfr78 are hypotensive whereas mice null for gpr41 are hypertensive implying that these pathways may be physiologically important links between scfas and host blood pressure control.summary in sum these studies demonstrate that there does indeed appear to be a link between scfas and blood pressure which likely involves host gpcrs at least in part however the details and intricacies of these interactions are not yet fully understood and will greatly benefit from further studies.keywords gut microbiome .

this review will discuss scfas themselves and the evidence linking them to blood pressure regulation review the known host recep- tors for scfas and discuss the blood pressure pheno- types of mice null for scfa receptors.

finally this review will attempt to integrate what is currently known into a cohesive view of how scfas and their receptors may influence blood pressure control.short-chain fatty acidsshort-chain fatty acids scfas are metabolites produced by the gut microbiota as a byproduct of the fermentation of die- tary fiber.

intriguingly acetate was previously included as a competent of hemodialysis buffers but this has been largely discontinued because acetate was found to cause hypotension in patients again consistent with the concept that scfas lower blood pressure  .several studies have attempted to purposely manipulate scfas in animal models in order to determine whether this can alter blood pressure regulation andor to determine whether scfa levels may change in hypertensive models.

in ad- dition in the future it will be necessary to carefully elucidate the pathways and mechanisms which underly the correlations seen between scfas and blood pressure.short-chain fatty acid receptorsin order to begin to understand the physiological actions of scfas we must address the cellular mechanisms which un- derlie scfa signaling.

curr hypertens rep 2017 19 25 doi 10.1007s11906-017-0722-5microbial short-chain fatty acids and blood pressure regulationjennifer l. pluznick1published online 17 march 2017 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2017abstractpurpose of review microbial short-chain fatty acids scfas are byproducts of microbial metabolism which can be absorbed into the bloodstream of the host where they exert effects on host physiology.

scfas have been known to influ- ence several aspects of host physiology including the regula- tion of blood pressure.

one way that scfas can influence host cells is by interacting with host gpcrs including gpr41 and olfr78 among others.

scfas .

one subset of this evidence is focused on the role of short-chain fatty acids scfas in modulating blood pressure control.

as described be- low scfas are gut microbial metabolites which can bind to and activate host receptors thereby acting as a route of communication between gut microbial metab- olism and host physiology.

scfas are subsequently absorbed into the blood- stream of the host where they can interact with host proteins in order to influence host physiology.

it is worth noting that plasma scfas levels in the host are dependent upon microbial production studies have shown that serum scfa levels cor- relate with dietary fiber levels  and studies comparing con- jennifer l. pluznick 1 department of physiology johns hopkins university school of medicine 725 n wolfe st wbsb 205 baltimore md 21205 usaventional and germ-free animals found that scfa concentra- tions in the cecum are enhanced over 100-fold by the presence of gut microbiota .

