the u.s. food and drug administration fda currently regulates fecal microbi- ota transplantation as a drug requiring an investigational new drug application for transplantation research however the fda exercises enforcement discretion exempting treating physicians from this requirement when transplantation is used clinically to treat recurrent c. difficile infection that does not respond to standard therapies.editorialsthe regulatory uncertainty has been a deterrent to widespread use in clinical practice because it requires adequate documentation of indication justification foraddress correspondence to aasma shaukat md mph at shaukat umn.edu.

these include development of various synthetic stool mixtures containing only a few strains that are thought to mediate the protective effects of fecal microbiota transplantation and other innova- tions such as a capsule containing only a mixture of bacterial spores from a donor stool.78 however given the complexity of the full colonic microbial community it is likely that full-spectrum transplantation will continue to be useful going forward.fecal microbiota transplantation is a safe and effective treatment to prevent further recurrences of c. difficile infection and should be considered in individuals who have experienced one or more recurrent episodes of moderate to severe infection.

editorialsfecal microbiota transplantation in clostridium difficile infection evidence and indicationsaasma shaukat md mph andandrew r. reinink md minneapolis veterans affairs medical center and university of minnesota minneapolis minnesotain 2011 nearly half a million patients in the united states had a symptomatic clostridium difficile infection and 29000 died within 30 days after diagnosis.1 the clinical spec- trum of c. difficile infection stretches from asymptomatic or mild diarrhea to a fulmi- nant life-threatening colitis that can require emergency colectomy.

over the past 15 years fecal microbiota transplantation has become an increasingly used treatment for c. difficile infection particularly to prevent recurrent disease.

there was much less evidence for initial treatment of c. difficile infection--only seven cases from two case series.fecal microbiota transplantation appears to be safe.

the two rcts reported mild self-limited diarrhea cramping belching nausea abdominal pain fever and dizzi- ness.5 however there is little evidence on the long-term safety of fecal microbiota transplantation.although public and scientific interest in fecal microbiota transplantation continues to grow many scientific regulatory and logistical challenges remain.

fecal microbiota transplantation for clostridium difficile infection a systematic review.

oral capsulized frozen fecal microbiota transplantation for relapsing clostridium difficile infection published correction appears in jama.

understanding the mechanisms of fae- cal microbiota transplantation.

