melamine contains 66.6 nitrogen and adding 1 to proteins leads to a false increase content by 4.16 in the results analysed with the kjeldahl method 30 31. melamine has become one of the most effective adulterants used to increase the nitrogen content in food products and this type of adulteration has been a common occurrence in the last 10 years 32. in 2007 a massive pet food recall in united states was caused by the presence of melamine in pet food 33 which was present in wheat gluten rice protein and corn gluten imported from china and used as an ingredient 33 34. kidney stones and renal failure in cats and dogs were reported as some of the most common toxic effects of melamine-adulteration in pet foods 35. toxicology evaluation of contaminated food and gluten protein from food recall using hilic-tof ms identified the presence of melamine cyanuric acid and several other triazines as contaminants 34. melamine also has been added to powdered infant formulas to increase falsely the content of proteins by increasing of non-protein nitrogen level 32. themost famous case of melamine in food was in china in september of 2008 causing kidneys stones and urinary tract effects in more than 300.000 children and six infant deaths were reported as a consequence of melamine contamination 36 37. after this event whofao recommended lc-ms and gc-ms both targeted methodologies for screening confirmation and quantification for the presence of melamine in food products 38. the use of non-targeted spectroscopic techniques has been employed for the detection of melamine in food and it is a suitable alternative to detect other types of adulterant components in food products 30. it has been suggested that renal toxicity of melamine is mediated by the gut microbiota in rats where microbes transform melamine to cyanuric acid 39. a recent study from south africa analysed the level of melamine in different sport products using lc-ms and found 46  of them contained melamine in low levels which were within the tolerable daily intake tdi according to the who 38 40. however considering the low cost of melamine and its ability to increase the level of nitrogen it is important to ensure food ingredients from well-known suppliers and especially if these food products are oriented for vulnerable groups as children so as to avoid future public health problems.wine is one the most widely consumed beverages of the world and several health benefits have been suggested to result from its moderate consumption 41. there are many varieties of wine according to their organoleptic characteristics such as aroma flavour and colour to name a few and those characteristics are attributed to its geographical location growing conditions and fermentation processes 42. the nature and structure of molecules found in wine are diverse and their concentration can vary depending on variety making it an easy target for adulteration43 the use of metabolic profiling techniques for wine analysis has been a useful tool to ensure the traceability and quality of wines 44. metabolic profiling with nmr and hplc-qtofms has permitted the identification of metabolite differences between grapes and wine varieties for examples wines made with campbell early cabernet sauvignon and shiraz grape andcabernet sauvignon merlot and pinot noir wine varieties 45 46. additionally the use of metabolic profiles has enabled detection of metabolite differences between the same wines varieties but produced in different stages of grape fermentation and different geographical locations 45 47. in another study samples of riesling and mueller-thurgau wines from the palatinate region in germany were analysed with nmr according to their quality classification assessed by a sensory panel.

however newtechnologies capable of real-time metabolite profiling linked to extensive databases of bacterial profiles are on the horizon and are described in section 3.the use of dietary biomarkers to improve the assessment of dietary intakecollection of dietary data is generally carried out by different methods like weighed food records food frequency questionnaires food diaries and 24 hour recall methods to name but a few 59. these techniques provide information about eating habits portion size food and nutrient consumption but these data tend to lack accuracy considering the different sources of food composition tables estimating energy nutrients and other food elements 60 61. additionally dietary assessment usually requires highly trained personnel careful validation time and cognitive ability from the respondent and skill of the researcher to obtain reliable results 62.a major limitation of nutritional science is the objective assessment of dietary intake at both individual and population levels.

the following section addresses some scenarios where metabolic profiling has shown to be useful in specific food and nutritional contexts with promising results.food composition organoleptic properties and food safetyfood composition has been traditionally evaluated by the standard methods suggested by the food and agriculture organization of the united nations fao for the evaluation of carbohydrates proteins lipids alcohol polyols organic acids and other food energy sources 27. these methodologies basically provide information about energy content of food but the diversity of molecules and individual chemical forms are not detected.

the use of metabolic phenotyping to analyse and identify food compounds enables identification of specific molecules and can provide the data required to validate the authenticity quality and acceptability of some certain type of foods 28. this type of identification is fundamental for wines vegetables fruits and specific type of foods.protein content in food is determined by the kjeldahl method which evaluates the amount of nitrogen in food but without the discrimination of the nitrogen source 27 29. however it is possible to artificially enhance the measured protein content of a food by adulteration of a product with melamine.

indeed interpersonal variability has been observed in the amount of weight loss induced by caloric restriction 10and in the postprandial response to identical meals 11. however it must also be borne in mind that foods often constitute a rich chemical composition such that different brands or types of food may represent a distinct panel of chemicals for example apple juice is sometimes found to be adulterated with other fruits such as pears 12 while grape juice is commonly adulterated with apples 13. in addition to the complexity of food matrices the chemical composition changes during food processing 14 due to the large number of factors involved temperature ph pressure etc.

the main applications of metabolic phenotyping in nutrition research are shown in figure 1. these applications include i quality control of food products ensuring authenticity and provenance of material ii detection of toxicity of foods  food contaminants iii assessing metabolic response to diet at the individual and population levels iv stratification of individuals according to dietary response v identifying non-adherence to dietary interventions or plans.by exploiting thousands of measured metabolites reflecting physiological status food intake metabolism and environmental exposure the balance of traditional standardised nutritional advice can be shifted towards personalised nutritional management accounting for anindividual's unique lifestyle culture environment and phenotype.

furthermore this disease produces a change in the flavour of oranges which then cannot be consumed because of the extremely bitter- acid flavour they acquire 54. recent studies have described the use of metabolic profiling by nmr in orange juice leaves and roots from asymptomatic and symptomatic trees detecting differences in their metabolites 55 56. the implementation of new strategies to tackle and detect timely the presence of hlb are important for citrus industry where metabolic profiling techniques could be useful in developing new protocols to reduce hlb infected plants.metabolic profiling techniques have been studied to detect food pathogens in various types of food with promising results 28. foodborne pathogens are a constant threat for the food industry and public health consequently rapid techniques are required to obtain reliable detection of spoiled or dangerous foods.

a proof concept of a rapid method detection for listeria monocytogenes has been developed using gas chromatography coupled to orthogonal acceleration time-of-flight mass spectrometry gc-oatofms capable of detecting metabolic fingerprints in laboratory media and milk 57. additionally an alternative method for pathogens detection has been developed to detect escherichia coli o157h7 salmonella typhimurium salmonella muenchen and salmonella hartford in laboratory samples with gc- ms 58. the unmet need for rapid techniques for accurate and sensitive detection of food pathogens in food presents an analytical challenge particularly when metabolite patterns are required to be specific down to the level of bacterial strain and food matrix.

this concept is based on the principle that excretion levels of metabolites are highly correlated to the dietary intake of a food or nutrient over a fixed period of time 70. the assessment and validation of dbs consist in identifying a candidate metabolite or metabolites and subsequently evaluating them in a nutritional trial under controlled conditions 71. the application of high- throughput analytical techniques has permitted the identification and discovery of several dbs in urine and blood 72 73. dietary biomarkers from different food groups identified from 2006 to 2016 using multiplatform metabolic profiling strategies are summarised in table 1.the approaches that have been used to dbs discovery can be either hypothesis led or data driven 72 74. in the hypothesis driven case a prior knowledge of different db is selected according to their food composition data and information about in vivo metabolism.

newer technologies such as the rapid evaporative ionization mass spectrometry reims for direct ms-based testing of food provenance hold great promise for identifying food fraud in a matter of minutes for example detecting adulteration of beef burgers with horse meat and have potential to revolutionise the food screening industry.

metabolic phenotyping of foods using high density data-generating technologies to profile the biochemical composition of foods meals and human samples pre and post food intake can be used to map the complex interaction between the diet and human metabolism and also to assess food quality and safety.

considering the nature and diversity of compounds which are metabolized a single analytical technique is unlikely to yield a comprehensive and complete metabolic profile and frequently is used in a complementary manner.applications in food and nutritional researchdifferent approaches have been suggested for metabolic profiling applications in food and nutritional sciences.

this has obvious application in food adulteration and its major strength lies in the rapidity of the method allowing high throughput screening of food products.

201385115297-303.maclean wc warwick p food and agriculture organization of the united nations.food energy  methods of analysis and conversion factors  report of a technical workshop rome 3-6 december 2002. rome food and agriculture organization of the united nations 2003. vi 87 p. p.cevallos-cevallos jm reyes-de-corcuera ji etxeberria e danyluk md rodrick ge.

does energy intake underreporting involve all kinds of food or only specific food items results from the fleurbaix laventie ville sante flvs study.

