Even though these antimicrobial factors are important in preventing HIV infection in the oral cavity SLPI is considered to be the main factor in saliva to protect against HIV infection   .Although adults rarely seem to be infected with HIV via the oral cavity it does appear to be a gateway for infectious HIV in postnatal vertical transmission .

We will also discuss current knowledge on HIV oral transmission HIV immunosenescence in relation to the oral mucosal alterations during the course of HIV infection and periodontal disease.

Acquiring HIV during receptive anal sex has been estimated to be 1.4 and contracting HIV via intravenous drug injection has been speculated at 0.63-2.4  .However the controversy of oral transmission of HIV viareceptive oral sex is continually examined.

The purpose of this review is to examine existing evidence regarding the role of innate and cellular components of the oral cavity in HIV infection and how HIV infection may drive systemic hyper-immune activation in these patients.

Finally we discuss oral manifestations associated with HIV infection and how HIV infection and ART influence the oral microbiome.

Therefore unraveling how HIV compromises the integrity of the oral mucosal tissues and innate immune components of the oral cavity and its association with induction of chronic inflammation are critical for the development of effective preventive interventions and therapeutic strategies.Keywords Hiv mucosal immunity oral mucosa immune activation periodontal disease immunosenescenceiNTRODUCTiONHIV infection continues to be a major global health issue with an estimated 36.7 million people living with HIV worldwide .

The development of antiretroviral therapy ART in 1995 was a significant step in the fight against HIV and because of ARTs HIV no longer is a death sentence .

This review focuses on the innate immune components of the oral cavity with regard to HIV infection the key markers associated with periodontal disease the current understanding of oral inflammation in HIV infection as well as evaluates interventions that might be utilized to improve oral health of HIV-infected individuals.iNNATe iMMUNe COMPONeNTS OFSALivAThe oral cavity is a unique and sophisticated anatomical structure characterized by a combination of soft and hard tissues which is exposed tremendously and constitutively to external stimuli   .

A domain of cathelicidin LL-37 inhibits HIV replica- tion in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and is currently being evaluated to determine if the same domain inhibits HIV in saliva  .

SLPI may inhibit a step of viral infection that occurs once the virus has bound to the cell but before reverse transcription occurs .Salivary function and composition are altered with HIV infection and some salivary components such as lactoferrin and IgA levels are altered in HIV patients with oral candidiasis com- pared with healthy subjects  .

