we found a significant decrease in the total number of bacteria in mice during experimental nec a. fmt significantly protected against the suppression of the total number of bacteria after nec induction and mice treated with fmt actually demonstrated a higher number of bacteria compared to the nec mice a.the richness of the microbial species was estimated by the chao1 estimator median 11.2 for nec 22.5 for control18.9 for nec plus fmt mice kruskal-wallis p0.012 control vs nec b. the median chao1 of three control mice predicted 1179 otus while the median chao1 of three experimental mice with nec predicted 734 otus.

therefore we measured the total enos and its s-glutathio- nylation to assess enos activation in intestinal homogenates single cell suspensions of intestinal microvascular endothelial cells mimecs and macrophages.in the resting state there were no apparent differences in enos levels between fmt and control mice both groups displayed low levels of enos s-glutathionylation in intestinal homogenates mimecs and macrophages according to the immunoprecipitation assay a-d. although no or only slight increases of total enos levels were observed in mimecs and intestinal homogenates the nec-inducing regimen provoked significant enos s-glutathionylation especially in the macro- phages d. importantly the levels of enos s-glutathionylation were decreased when mice were subjected to fmt confirming the function of fmt in the deglutathionylation of enos.

fmt had no effect on o2- production c when administered to grx1-- mice providing mechanistic insights to explain the protective effects of fmt in this devastating disease.importantly as indicated in d fmt did not protect against the development of nec in mice lacking grx1 disease severity was equal to that in the control mice as measured by the histological appearance of the mucosa gross appearance of the intestine and nec severity score d. enos s-glutathionylation was not reduced suggesting that enos s-glutathionylation acts as an intermediate signal for the actions of fmt.

fmt tended to significantly increase no production in animals at baseline or during nec d e. conversely the o2- content decreased by approximately 50 in mice treated with fmt compared with the corresponding control mice d and e. l-nmma decreased the no signal by approximately 80 in mice with nec suggesting that the source of no in these mesenteries was endothelial nitric oxide synthase enos dependent d and e. thus no to o2- switching modulated by fmt was associated with enos dysfunction.fmt decreases enos s-glutathionylationit has been suggested that endothelial dysfunction occurs as theresult of impaired enos function  owing to the s-glutathionylation of enos.

tnf-a il-1b and il-6 levels were higher in intestinal tissues of mice with nec compared with control mice whereas il-10 expression was reduced c-f. notably fmt significantly attenuated the increase in secreted tnf-a il-1b and il-6 proteins to resemble the levels in control mice but not grx-1 deficient mice.we next purified mimecs and peritoneal macrophages from wild- type and grx1 -- mice and treated cells with lps.

the clinical nec incidences were 58 for controlpups and 39 for pups with fmt b.although the gross appearance of intestinal h  e staining was similar in fmt and control mice nec severity was significantly reduced in fmt mice compared with their counterparts.

consistent with these morphologic changes mice subjected to fmt had lower pathology scores d and higher survival rates than their counterparts log-rank mantel-cox test p0.0007 e.fmt protected against microbiome changes in necto confirm that fmt modulates gut microbiota we examined the composition of intestinal bacteria in mice with nec treated with fmt.

distorted tissue architecture were observed in the terminal ileums and cecum of nec mice c. the microvilli integrity in the ileum of nec mice was perturbed and the local membrane of the intestinal mucosal epithelial cells was not complete c. in mice receiving fmt distorted tissue architecture were attenuated and the destruction of the mucosae appeared to have been substantially ameliorated as indicated by the infiltration of fewer inflammatory cells.

fmt reversed this pattern of expression even in grx1 deficient mice as indicated in a and b. together these findings suggest that the protective effect of fmt may be influenced by the relative roles of tlr4 and tlr9 signaling within the intestine.previous studies have shown that mice with nec produced higher levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines in intestinal tissues.

d. these findings demonstrate that fmt protects against the development of nec and attenuates the severity of nec in mice andthat this occurs at least in part via grx1.fmt reciprocally modulated toll like receptors tlr -4 and -9 in mice with experimental necas enos-derived no production is reported to be pivotal in the repression of tlr4 expression we next sought to investigate whether fmt could regulate tlr4 activation during nec pathogenesis.

data are expressed as percent survival of the total study population n15-16 mice per group log-rank mantel-cox test p0.001.were conversely changed to increase the gssggsh ratio from approximately 0.1 in control mice to 1.5 in experimental nec mice a indicating the generation of a severe intestinal oxidative stress.

these findings raise the exciting possibility that fmt could represent a novel therapeutic strategy in diseases associated with increased tlr4 signaling such as nec.fmt decreases nec severity via tlr4-mediated apoptosis and bacterial translocationwe next evaluated whether fmt could affect intestinal apoptosis in mice with nec.

here we show that fmt caused an improvement in the histopathology and symptoms of nec in wt mice but not grx1-- mice.

there was an increase in unknown bacteria particu- larly members in the genera e. coli and bacteroides in mice with nec d. in contrast fmt significantly reversed the overall bacterial population pattern in the cecal contents in nec mice for all bacteria tested although the total bacterial populations were slightly lower than in the control group p0.0019.

furthermore the systemic administration of fmt led to a decline in apoptosis in mimecs isolated from wt mice compared to grx1-- mice.

