oikos 124 1404-1415.mechanisms to mitigate the trade-off between growth and defense talia l. karasov eunyoung chae jacob j. herman and joy bergelson plant cell 201729666-680 originally published online march 20 2017 doi 10.1105tpc.16.00931this information is current as of march 26 2018c american society of plant biologistsadvancing the science of plant biology

cipollini 2002 grew arabidopsis thaliana alone and in combination with other plant species and then compared the effect of induced defenses on plant growth.

2008. the consequence of initiation of defense is the suppression of gibberellin-mediated development figure 1.figure 1. examples of immune receptor crosstalk with plant de- velopment.a simplified cartoon illustrating the response of a plant to recognition of pathogen via two different immune proteins recognition of bacterial fla- gellin via fls2 and recognition of a bacterial effector via an r protein.

a multitude of eco- logical factors can influence the predictability of attack rates including the relation of plant dispersal distances to the spatial heterogeneity of plant enemies and the environmental conditions that influence their presence herman et al.

2014b the frequency of autoimmune genetic interactions in natural and agricultural plant populations hermsen 1963 bomblies and weigel 2007 bomblies 2009 ispolatov and doebeli 2009 suggests that the findings of a genetic load associated with r genes in arabidopsis may be generalizable.how the activity of one r gene can affect the activity of another becomes clear when one considers the network of protein in- teractions between r genes figure 2. while the majority of functionally annotated r genes were identified for race-specific resistance most of them turned out to be involved in the sur- veillance system for host protein homeostasis dangl and jones 2001. the host proteins that are monitored by the guard r pro- teins dangl and jones 2001 van der hoorn and kamoun 2008 are not only frequent targets of intruders but often highly con- nected to physiological networks that regulate overall plant fitness mackey et al.

genomic studies of plant evolution support this line of logic.as mentioned above r genes have among the highest nu- cleotide diversity of any genes in plant genomes cao et al.

the ability of other organisms to protect the plant could reduce the reliance ofa plant on its immune system.

the plant cell vol.

exciting new evidence indicates that a plant's genotype influences the microbiome composition lending credence to the hypothesis that plants shape their microbiome to enhance defense.introductionthere are spectacular examples of highly defended plants in which a large percentage of biomass is devoted to chemicals that ward off pests kempel et al.

1965 chaplin and mann 1978 simmonds 1989 krattinger and keller 2016 and in molecular plant bio- sciences where researchers have uncoupled putative growth- resistance trade-offs in the laboratory campos et al.

2016. a meta-analysis of the fitness detriment associated with resistance traits in plant populations revealed evidence of a cost of resistance against either herbivores pathogens or weeds in only 50 of case studies bergelson and purrington 1996. how can we reconcile observations of high metabolic costs with the ability to overcome themit is often assumed that negative correlations between growth and defense result from pleiotropic effects of a resistance trait.

the study found significantly reduced growth rates for arabidopsis plants upregulated for defense with this effect being greater when the focal plant was competing with other species.

these results suggest that competition for resources or plant-plant signaling shape the apparent costs of defense induction.ecology influences the optimal growth-defense relationshipthe competing demands imposed by enemies and competitors as discussed above illustrate how conditions beyond bio- energetic pulls can dictate the optimal immune response kliebenstein 2016. the age of a plant at the time of pathogenic attack also factors into defining the optimal defense response.

imagine a young plant that is energy limited suffering attack and finds itself in a highly competitive environment where early growth is essential.

the best strategy for this plant may well be to forego defense and grow at least provided the pathogen is not too virulent.

