the lactic acid produced by s. mutans can be metabolized by c. albicans  and c. albicans can increase the external ph by producing ammonia  leading to less cariogenic conditions.interactions between c. albicans and bacteria have been studied in dual-species biofilm models.

for instance the phy- sical interaction between c. albicans and streptococcus gordonii enhances hyphal formation of c. albicans and increases the biomass of the dual-species biofilms .

c. albicans sc5314  was grown overnight centrifuged and resuspended in fresh buffered semi-defined mcbain medium  to od600  5.0. an inoculum was created by diluting pooled saliva 50-fold in fresh mcbain medium sup- plemented with 0.2 sucrose or by diluting both pooled saliva and c. albicans 50-fold in fresh mcbain medium supplemented with 0.2 sucrose mixed inoculum.biofilm formationbiofilms were grown in vitro in buffered semi-defined mcbain medium  supplemented with 0.2 sucrose using the amsterdam active attachment model aaa model  with 12 mm glass coverslips menzel braunsweig germany.

in contrast anaerobic growth conditions resulted in biofilms without visible c. albicans c.since biofilms are three-dimensional structures it is possible that c. albicans was present yet undetect- able using clsm.

as expected the saliva-inoculated biofilms showed no detectable pre- sence of c. albicans in all conditions d. in line with the clsm data significant presence of c. albicans was observed in biofilms cultured in the presence of oxygen.

in conclusion c. albicans can be introduced in the aaa model for oral micro- cosm biofilms when cultured under aerobic conditions.effect of c. albicans on phenotypes of oral biofilmsoral biofilms consist mainly of oral bacteria with fungi probably representing 0.1 of viable cells.

red autofluorescence in rfu after curve fitting for d biofilms grown aerobically e biofilms grown aerobically5 co2 and f biofilms grown anaerobically.were visible explaining the high standard deviations in the red fluorescence spectra d e and f.effect of c. albicans on microbiome of early biofilmshyphae provide sites of adhesion for many bacteria that interact with c. albicans.

this study aimed to introduce c. albicans in a microcosm in vitro model to study the effect of c. albicans on the phenotype and micro- biome of complex oral biofilms.in order to study the fundamentals of oral biofilm development one should aim to use in vitro models that mimic the oral situation as well as possible.

however this did not happen in the pre- sence of c. albicans where strict anaerobic bacteria colonized the aaa model.the presence of c. albicans did not affect the totalnumber of culturable microorganisms cfu counts in the biofilm or the pathology-related phenotypes of oral biofilms that were defined previously .

the induced red autofluorescence might therefore be an indication that c. albicans supports the growth of anaerobic bacteria in the early stage of biofilm formation.interactions between c. albicans and bacteria can occur on physical chemical and metabolic levels .

oxygen consumption by c. albicans is high and rapid  and the presence of c. albicans could quickly create anaerobic micro-niches.

albicans integrates in complex in vitro oral biofilms in the aaa modelthe aaa biofilm model was inoculated using saliva or saliva  c. albicans and cultured at 37degc under anaerobic aerobic and aerobic 5 co2 conditions.

m. janus w. crielaard c. m. c. volgenant m. h. van der veen b. w. brandtand b. p. kromadepartment of preventive dentistry academic centre for dentistry amsterdam university of amsterdam and vrije universiteit amsterdam amsterdam the netherlands btop institute food and nutrition wageningen the netherlandsarticle historyreceived 29 august 2016revised 29 november 2016accepted 7 december 2016keywordscandida albicans in vitro oral biofilms red autofluorescence ecology oxygen depletionintroductionthe healthy oral cavity represents a very diverse niche that is colonized by 500 bacterial species .

under both aerobic conditions the presence of c. albicans was readily observed using clsm  a and b. under elevated co2 conditions c. albi- cans formed hyphae while under aerobic conditions hyphal formation was less extensive.

nevertheless c. albicans colonizes the oral cavity as a commensal in 50-70 of individuals .

