pooled samples from dgge of the 16 d sam- ples indicated randomness in banding patterns with no clustering among the treatment groups figure a while 28 and 42 d samples exhibited increased succes- sional consistency both in the banding patterns and the brightness of the bands figure b and c. this is also reflected in the phylogenetic tree that was gen- erated in the clustering of samples according to treat- ment there appeared to be approximately 73.5 ho- mology among samples treated with xpc t2 and t4 at the 42 d sampling age as shown in figure c. this enhanced banding stability directly related to bird ma- turity and treatment with xpc indicates a potential effect of xpc to stabilize microbial communities in the ceca prior to 42 days.

lanes 1 to 4 t1 control samples lanes 5 to 8 t2 xpc samples lanes 9 to 12 t3 sal samples and lanes 13 to 16 t4 xpc  sal samples.

after filtering sequences using read quality and sample size require- ments there were a total of 280 samples 94 samples from individual birds at 16 d 92 samples from 28 d 94 samples from 42 d of the v4 region of the 16s rrna gene analyzed.

more obvious clustering among the 42 d samples in unweighted pcoa plot indicates that the number of distinct otu rather than the otu abun- dance is the primary driving force behind the separa- tion of samples in the graph area since the unweighted plot will not include otu abundance when calculating distances between samples figure a and b.inclusion of xpc appears to allow for the micro- bial communities comprised of the entire microbiometo reach their stable levels at an earlier age prior to 42 d as is indicated by dgge analysis however this finding was less evident in the ngs data obtained.

found similar results to the cur- rent study in that chicken cecal microbiome samples were comprised primarily of firmicutes and proteobac- teria at approximately 70 and 9 respectively though bacteroidetes accounted for approximately 12. the abundances of firmicutes among all samples at both 16 and 28 d sampling age points in the current study were approximately 70 to 80 figure a to d.2404park et al.figure 1. a to c. pooled samples from a 16 d b 28 d and c 42 d sampling age including t1 to t4 dgge left phylogenetic tree right.

therefore it would be beneficial to compare the data collected in the current study with full-length 16s rrna gene sequences from mature and healthy poultry cecal microbiota.the exact mechanism of xpc is not yet defined and the current research does not support or refute the hypothesis of modulation of the git microbiome.feed supplement effects on cecal microbiota2409figure 6. box plots for chao1 indices observed otu phylogenetic distance pd and shannon diversity indices determined among all sampling age points 16 28 42 d. differing letters indicate statistical significance based on p  0.05.in comparing the results from both methods of dgge and ngs the dgge methodology appeared to indicate a potential modulation of the cecal microbial popula- tions caused by the various treatments utilized in this research.

concentrations and purity measurements of the dna were obtained with a nanodrop nd-1000 thermo sci- entific marietta oh.preparation of dna samples for dggesamples for dgge analysis were pooled based on age and treatment group each wk of samples was separated into 16 pooled groups 6 samples per group 4 groups per treatment to fit within the gel capacity zhou et al.

the concentration of pooled samples from each plate was measured using a qubit fluorometer life tech- nologies according to the manufacturer's protocol.quantification of the pooled samples each plate's pooled sample and all the plates' pooled samples com- bined was conducted using both the eppendorf re- alplex mastercycler ep gradient s eppendorf as well as the agilent bioanalyzer.

the objective of the current study was to identify the impact of feeding xpc on cecal microbial populations and their relative abundances present in the poultry git microbiome in response to treatment with xpc andor sal.

when observ- ing the difference among treatments while the control and xpc  sal treatment became more evenly dis- persed in the abundances of the genera both the xpc and sal individual treatments became more unevenly represented figure .analysis at the species level identified 186 distinct species being present in the cecal microbiota however the majority 87.6 of those species have not yet been identified in the reference database.

unifrac principle coordinate analysis pcoa plots were gen- erated through qiime to illustrate the weighted andfeed supplement effects on cecal microbiota2403unweighted distances among samples based on sampling age.results and discussionanalysis of cecal microbiota responses using pcr-based dggethe objective of the current study included the in- vestigation into the git microbiome which has been attempted previously utilizing various methods.

ross 708 male broil- ers n  640 were assigned to one of 4 treatments cocci-vaccine t1 cocci-vaccine  xpc t2 cocci- vaccine  sal in the grower diet only t3 and cocci-vaccine  sal in the grower diet only  xpc t4.

the birds were transferred to a grow-out facility and randomly assigned to one of 4 feed treat- ments cocci-vaccine t1 cocci-vaccine  xpc t2 cocci-vaccine  sal in the grower diet only t3 and cocci-vaccine  sal in the grower diet only  xpc t4.

the inclusion rate of xpc in the starter and grower diets for the birds receiving xpc treatment was 1.25 gkg and was subsequently reduced to 0.625 gkg in the finisher diet.

dgge gel images were uploaded to quantity one software bio-rad laboratories for phylogenetic tree analysis.library preparation for sequencingindividual bird samples were utilized for sequenc- ing unlike in the dgge analysis which used pooled samples.

