to our knowledge this is the first case report of using ivig in a severe refractory clostridium difficile infection after failing fecal microbiota transplants and all medical treatments including fidaxomicin and it adds to the growing evidence that ivig should be considered among the arsenal for fighting this debilitating and potentially life-threatening infection.references... ...

case reportivig - a cure to severe refractory nap-1 clostridium difficile colitis a case of successful treatment of severe infection which failed standard therapy including fecal microbiota transplants and fidaxomicinkelley coffman xian jie cindy chen charles okamura eddie louiea department of medicine nyu langone medical center new york ny usa b department of pharmacy nyu langone medical center new york ny usa c department of medicine nyu lutheran medical center brooklyn ny usad department of medicine department of infectious diseases  immunology nyu langone medical center new york ny usaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 15 january 2017received in revised form 2 march 2017 accepted 2 march 2017keywordsclostridium difficile infection c diffcdi ivigintravenous immunoglobulina b s t r a c tthe mainstay treatment of clostridium difficile infections cdi is antimicrobials with growing support for fecal microbiota transplants.

although surgery seemed to be his best and possibly only option his multiple co-morbidities poor nutritional status and deconditioning made his surgical risk prohibitively high and colonic resection was deferred in light of relative clinical stability and no systemic signs to suggest toxicity.intravenous immunoglobulin ivig has shown promise in casesof severe refractory c. difficile colitis  thus after failing all standard medical therapies this patient was given ivig over 3 days gamunex-c 10 1 gkg on the first day followed by 0.5 gkg on the second and third days.

we report the first case of an elderly man with severe refractory nap-1 pseudomembranous cdi who failed all medical therapy and two fecal transplants with response only seen after administration of intravenous immunoglobulin.c 2017 the authors.

the standard of care in management is antimicrobials with increasing use of fecal microbiota transplants.

idcases 8 2017 27-28episodes of watery diarrhea found to be infected with the nap-1 strain of clostridium difficile identified by pcr assay.over the course of two months he failed multiple therapeutic modalities for clostridium difficile infection including antimicro- bials and two fecal microbiota transplants.

he underwent a colonoscopy-guided fecal microbiota transplant bacteriotherapy with open biome 37-0020-d in the cecum followed by a trial of cholestyramine.

approximately one week after the first fecal transplant his symptoms worsened.

he then underwent a second fecal transplant to no avail.

this significant worsening of infection burden despite fecal transplants and standard antimicrobials prompted a discussion between the specialists to opt for surgical resection versus a trial of fidaxomicin.

despite treatment with multiple medical modalities including fecal microbiota transplants and fidaxomicin clinical and radiographic improvement was not observed until after administration of the immunoglobulin.

three days after completing the ivig infusions the frequency of bowel movements decreased to 3-5 times per day and the patient reported significant improvement in his abdominal pain.

repeat imaging with ctabdomenpelvis on day 6 after receiving ivig demonstrated significant improvement in his colitis but with some residual disease in his right colon.

follow-upimagingwith ct of abdomenpelvis showed no evidence of colitis or inflammation.discussionin this case report we described the successful treatment of severe refractory nap-1 pseudomembranous c. difficile colitis associated with megacolon using ivig.

the proposed mechanism of using ivig in clostridium difficile infections is inferred from the difference in the innate humoral immunity among asymptomatic and symptomatic colonizers.

