special functions include the role of flavonoids in the attraction of nitrogen-fixing rhizobia and root nodulation and the interference of root exudates with bacterial quorum sensing.metabolic breakdown and modification of specialized metabolites by microbes in the endosphere.vocs emitted by rhizobacteria and ectomycorrhizal fungi effecting root morphology and plant immunity.exudates strigolactones promote root-mycorrhizal fungi interactions arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus not shown.attractive and growth inhibitory functions of volatile and non-volatile specialized metabolites on root microbial pathogens.direct repellent deterrent or attractive effects of exudates and vocs on root herbivores and plant parasites.attraction of insect parasites entomopathogenic nematodes by root-derived vocs.causing the disruption of carotenoid biosynthesis and eventually plant death meazza et al.

2012 which investigated volatiles emitted by plant growth-inhibiting bacteria.besides their role in plant immunity bacterial vocs canhave distinct effects on root architecture.

many soil nematodes are phy- tophagous and feed on below-ground plant tissues pre- dominantly roots bohlmann 2015. recruitment of nematodes to plant roots can be through specific signals secreted as a result of insect herbivory rasmann and tur- lings 2008 or root mechanical damage laznik and trdan 2013. nematode-plant interactions display specificity which is likely driven by chemical signals.

together these studies demonstrate that specializedfigure 3. structural information and chemical classes of exuded root metabolites involved in the plant response to mineral deficiency.metabolites exuded by roots are able to support nutrient acquisition directly or indirectly which represents yet another function among the multiple roles of specialized compounds in the complex soil environment.phosphorus deficiency and specialized metabolitesinorganic phosphorus p present in soils is mostly found in the form of insoluble complexes making it almost inaccessi- ble and thus a limiting factor for plant development pe'ret et al.

2012c a specialist root herbivore reduces plant resis- tance and uses an induced plant volatile to aggregate in a density-depen- dent manner.

in a second step additional selective factors dependent on the host plant genotype generate a more distinct microbial community on the immediate root surface and within the root.

the plant journal 2017 90 788-807doi 10.1111tpj.13543si editor's choicesmall molecules below-ground the role of specialized metabolites in the rhizospherehassan massalha1 elisa korenblum1 dorothea tholl2 and asaph aharoni11department of plant sciences weizmann institute of science rehovot 76100 israel and2department of biological sciences virginia polytechnic institute and state university blacksburg va 24061 usareceived 1 december 2016 revised 17 march 2017 accepted 21 march 2017 published online 23 march 2017.for correspondence e-mail or summarysoil communities are diverse taxonomically and functionally.

2006. apart from exudation rhizodeposition isc 2017 the authors the plant journal c 2017 john wiley  sons ltdan additional mechanism that impacts soil microorganisms through the release of chemical substances from dead plant tissues i.e.

strigolactones are presented in both the plant-plant interaction and plant-fungi interaction panels.figure 2. overview of known and putative functions of volatile and non-volatile specialized metabolites in the interaction of roots with soil-borne organisms.a exudates from neighboring plant roots affecting other plant roots and microbial communities in the rhizosphere.b-d b water-soluble specialized metabolites exuded by roots or vocs released into the rhizosphere attract soil-borne bacteria and stimulate or inhibit their growth in the c rhizosphere and d endosphere.

2016. similarly the invasive plant species centaurea diffusa from eurasia has strong inhibitory effects on bunchgrass species from north america but mild effects on bunchgrass species from eurasia callaway and asche- houg 2000. although the active compound from c. dif- fusa is not well characterized yet this observation suggests a possible change in the target plant sensitivity dictated by the neighbors found in the new geographic location.

these find- ings suggest a mutualistic interaction in which the plant provides voc based nutrients and at the same time bene- fits from the stimulated production of these compounds by using them for defense against pathogens and pests.it can be assumed that vocs released by plant roots function as chemoattractants to recruit voc metabolizing bacteria from the soil environment figure 2a.

2012 which supports the potential role of this molecule as a repellent or chemoat- tractant.the role of exudated specialized metabolites in plant nutritional stressbioavailability of minerals and trace elements is essential for plant development as they serve as cofactors for a wide range of cellular process white et al.

2011 constitutive and induced subterranean plant volatiles attract both entomopathogenic and plant parasitic nematodes.

plant soil 329 1-25.chaimovitsh d. abu-abied m. belausov e. rubin b. dudai n. and sadot e. 2010 microtubules are an intracellular target of the plant ter- pene citral.

135 1956-1966.cheng x. ruyter-spira c. and bouwmeester h. 2013 the interaction between strigolactones and other plant hormones in the regulation of plant development.

