-janet colwell ngut microbes may up pd-1 inhibitor responsea recent study shows for the first time that patients' gut microbiome may affect whether they respond to checkpoint inhibitors j clin oncol 35 2017 suppl 7s abstract 2. the results presented in february at the asco-sitc clinical immuno-oncol- ogy symposium in orlando fl reveal that microbial diversity and compo- sition may help predict whether pd-1 inhibitors will shrink melanomas.animal studies have demonstrated that the presence of certain intestinal bacteria boost the potency of checkpoint inhibitors.

what we need to know is 'what is the role of the microbes at the species level and which of their activities are implicated in the beneficial effect' he says.wargo and gopalakrishnan now plan to test whether modifying gut bacteria improves the response to checkpoint inhibitors.

one 2015 study for instance determined that a ctla-4-blocking antibody was more effective against melanoma in mice whose intestinal microbiome included certain species of bacteroides science 20153501079-84. however researchers haven't established whether gut bacteria provide the same benefits in humans.to test this possibility a team led by jennifer wargo md and graduate stu- dent vancheswaran gopalakrishnan of the university of texas md andersoncancer center in houston sampled bacteria from more than 200 patients with metastatic melanoma who were about to undergo treatment.

global hope will also establish a pediatric oncology network to promote sharing of best practices says poplack.the eventual goal is to establish a coordinated clinical trials network among participating countries.damonti adds that global hope is modeled on a previous collabora- tion between bms and bipai that helped establish hiv treatment cent- ers in botswana lesotho swaziland uganda and tanzania in partnership with local governments.

the researchers checked for differences between responders and nonresponders in the 112 patients who received a pd-1 inhibitor--either nivolumab opdivo bristol-myers squibb or pembroli- zumab keytruda merck.the oral microbiome didn't differ between responders and nonrespond- ers but the gut microbiome did the researchers reported.

overall respond- ers had more diverse gut bacteria with higher abundance of microbes in the clostridiales group and lower abundance of species in the bacteriodales group.

he adds that the number of patients in the study which is large for microbi- ome research gives him confidence that this effect is real.the clostridiales contains a variety of microorganisms some that are beneficial and some such as clostridium difficile that are pathogenic and researchers now need to narrow down which species are responsible for the effects says christian jobin phd of the university of florida gainesville who also wasn't connected to the study.

-mitch leslie nfor more news on cancer research visit cancer discovery online at orgcontentearlybysection.448  cancer discovery may 2017gut microbes may up pd-1 inhibitor responsecancer discov 20177448. published onlinefirst march 23 2017.

 news in brief kampala and organizers hope to form similar partnerships in other countries.

as with hiv we hope to boost local capacity and create model programs that participating countries can follow so that eventually they will become self-sustaining.

there seems to be a clear role for the microbiome in modulating host and antitumor immunity as well as responses to immunotherapy says wargo.this is very important work says jeffrey weber md phd of the new york university langone medical center who wasn't connected to the study.

they are work- ing with other researchers to design clinical trials that will alter the micro- biome in patients with melanoma and evaluate their response to immune checkpoint blockade.

