we considered that the protective effect of a-gis against nash development is related to changes in the gut envi- ronment and thus investigated the effects of miglitol an a- gi on nash development and the gut environment.methods mice were divided into three groups and fed a normal chow diet ncd a high-fat high-sucrose diet hfhsd or hfhsd plus 0.04 miglitol hfhsd plusm for 12 weeks.results insulin resistance developed more in the hfhsd group than in the ncd group whereas it was suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group.

at 6 weeks of age the mice were divided into three groups n  10 per group and fedrespectively a normal chow diet ncd 12.7 kcal fat61.6 kcal carbohydrate and 25.7 kcal protein hfhsd 44.6 kcal fat 40.6 kcal carbohydrate and14.8 kcal protein or hfhsd containing 0.04 miglitol hfhsd plus m for 12 weeks.

the hfhsd group showed increased body weight and food intake compared with the ncd group but there were no significant differences between the hfhsd group and the hfhsd plus m groupfig.

the per- centage of bacteroidetes was lower in the hfhsd group than in the ncd group whereas there was no significant difference between the hfhsd group and the hfhsd plus m group.

regarding the gut environment the intestinal transit time was shortened and colon inflammation was suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group compared with the hfhsd group.

we took p  0.05 to indicate a statisti- cally significant difference.resultsmiglitol treatment suppressed hfhsd-induced nash developmentto evaluate the protective effects of miglitol against nash development the mice were fed the ncd hfhsd or hfhsd plus m for 12 weeks.

a b. the hfhsd group showed increased levels of fasting blood glucose and homa-ir compared with the ncd group whereas these changes were suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

he staining of the livers from the hfhsd group showed accumulation of lipid droplets inflammatory cell infiltration and an increase in the numbers of ballooning hepatocytes com- pared with the ncd group whereas these changes were suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

d. bio- chemical analysis revealed the hepatic triglyceride content and plasma alanine aminotransferase levels to be higher in the hfhsd group than in the ncd group whereas these changes were suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

the number of positively stained areas increased in the hfhsd group compared with the ncd group whereas this increase was suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

g. immunostaining with a-smooth muscle actin a marker of the activation of stellate cells which plays a role in liver fibrosis showed that the number of positively stained areas increased in the hfhsd group compared with the ncd group whereas this increase was suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

the mrna level of cd36 in- volved in fatty acid uptake increased in the hfhsd group compared with the ncd group whereas this increase was suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

the mrna levels of tumor necrosis fac- tor a and il-1b in the liver were increased in the hfhsd group compared with the ncd group whereas these changes were suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

mice were divided into three groups and fed a normal chow diet ncd hfhsd or hfhsd containing 0.04 miglitol hfhsdm for 12 weeks and then killed.

asterisk statistical significance p  0.05in the hfhsd group compared with the ncd group whereas the increase was suppressed in the hfhsd plus m group fig.

