gut hormones autonomic nerveactivity and dietary factors play important roles in the regula- tion of vascular function or blood pressure.the effect of gut hormones on blood pressure regulationin recent years studies have demonstrated that several gut hor- mones participate in the regulation of vascular function and blood pressure .

another mechanism involved is gut microbiota.metabolic surgery significantly modifies the composition of the gut microbiota which may be associated with altered production of short-chain fatty acids and gut hormones known to control cardiometabolic balance  .

alterations of anatomical structure gut microbiota gut autonomic nerve activity gut hormones secretion and nutrient absorption contribute to the antihypertensive effect of metabolic surgeryconclusionmounting evidence demonstrate that the gastrointestinal tract dominantly regulates the cardiometabolic homeostasis.

alterations of anatomical structure gut microbiota gut auto- nomic nerve activity or gut hormones secretion may lead to the onset of hypertension.

emerging findings demonstrate that en- dogenous factors derived from gi including gut hormones autonomic nerve and gut microbiota play important roles in the regulation of vascular function andor blood pressure.

endogenous factors in gi such as gut hormones gi nerve activity and gut microbiota also have been shown to have potential effects on blood pressure regulation - .

gut microbiota is able to influence the generation of vasoactive hormones such as serotonin dopamine and nor- epinephrine which can regulate blood pressure .diet is a major factor that modifies the composition and function of gut microbiota .

the oral administration of antibiotics normalized the ratio of firmicutes and bacteroidetes and blood pressure in hypertensive rats .the impact of gut microbiota on the blood pressure regu- lation is also be partially explained by the generation of short chain fatty acids.

in re- cent years different vagal modulations including baroreflex ac- tivation therapy renal sympathetic denervation and direct vagal nerve stimulation have been used to control blood pressure in the treatment of resistant hypertension .the effect of intestinal nutrient absorption on blood pressure regulationmany dietary factors affect blood pressure.

the rapid food stream to distal gut also induces a rapid elevation of distal gut hormone's glp-1 and pyy secretion -.

afsar b vaziri nd aslan g tarim k kanbay m. gut hormones and gut microbiota implications for kidney function and hyperten- sion.

the aberrant interaction in this gastro-renal axis may contribute to the pathogenesis of hyper- tension .the effect of gut autonomic nerves on blood pressure regulationthe sympathetic activity alterations are tightly associated with the development of hypertension .

sglt1 might participate in the dysregulation of intestinal sodium transport observed in hypertension .the effect of gut microbiota on blood pressure regulationthe gi tract is densely occupied by a huge community of microbes.

these results suggest that in addition to the weight loss metabolic surgery inducedtable 1 efficacy of metabolic surgery on hypertensionresolved resolved or improved management 58 reduction of blood pressure might be achieved by other mechanisms.the duodeno-jejunal bypass in gastric bypass elimi- nates the physiological responses of duodenal gut hor- mones and related enzymes secretion such as glucagon cck and bilio-pancreatic enzymes.

these gut hormones have been documented to play important roles in the regulation of cardiometabolic homeostasis.the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin is involved in cou- pling changes in body weight to changes in blood pressure .

