eduard vieta would like to thank the carlos iii health- care institute the ministry of the economy industry and competitiveness pi 1200912 included in the national r d  i plan and cofinanced by the isciii-general evaluation subdirectorship and the european regional development fund feder the mental health networking biomedical research centre cibersamthe secretaria d'universitats i recerca del departament d'economia i coneixement 2014 sgr 398 the seventh european framework pro- gramme enbrec the cerca programmegeneralitat de catalunya and the stanley medical research institute for their support.references i ---- - -the visceral brain bipolar disorder and microbiota69 - ------ -

rev psiquiatr salud ment barc.. 201710267---69editorialthe visceral brain bipolar disorder and microbiotael cerebro visceral trastorno bipolar y microbiotaestela salagre eduard vieta  iria grandeunidad de trastornos bipolares servicio de psiquiatria y psicologia hospital clinic instituto de neurociencias universidad de barcelona idibaps cibersam barcelona catalonia spainclassically it is accepted that the brain is able to modulate different systems in the body including the gastrointestinal system.

a new line of therapeutic options will surely open up based on the study of the microbiota-gut-brain axis such as probiotics live microorganisms that when ingested in suitable amounts may benefit the health of the consumer prebiotics com- pounds that the organism cannot digest but which have a physiological effect in the gut by selectively stimulating the growth and activity of beneficial bacteria or even antibi- otic treatments such as minocycline.these therapeutic alternatives have already been studied in diseases that are very common in our bipolar patients such as obesity or car- diovascular complaints.it would not have been possible to develop these new theories without the technological advances already made in the 21st century as they made it possible to gain deeper knowledge about this axis.

due to all of these considerations the appearance on stage of this influential actor has led to the concept of the ''gut-brain axis'' being broadened to the ''microbiota-gut-brain axis''.as in all relationships any attack on one party inevitablyaffects the others.

dysbiosis in turn through transmitters produced by pathogenic microorgan- isms and through the vagus nerve induces the activation of immuno-inflammatory processes and oxidative stress as well as neuromodulating and epigenetic mechanisms.all of these phenomena go on to affect the neuro-endocrine sys- tem as well as the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and the central nervous system influencing behaviour.in recent years the microbiota has therefore become an object of study in the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases including bipolar disorder bd.

it is even possible to discover their functions and viability using metatranscriptomics.in spite of these advances when talking of the microbiota-gut-brain axis we are still in unknown territory.

this close relationship between the nervous and digestive systems has given rise to the concept of the ''gut-brain axis''.

20171067---69 corresponding author.e-mail address e. vieta.and it varies as we grow until it stabilises at adulthood.

the intestines also have an extensive neuronal network that makes broad interconnectivity possible and it interacts continuously with the central nervous system.

this microbiota accompanies us from our mother's womb please cite this article as salagre e vieta e grande i. el cerebro visceral trastorno bipolar y microbiota.

salagre et al.although the cause for this was unknown and dysbiosis is considered to be a possible mediator here.

metagenomic techniques now make it possible to study all of the genomes of the microor- ganisms in gut microbial ecology even those that cannot be cultivated.

she would also like to thank the mental health networking biomedical research centre cibersam the grups consol- idats de recerca 2014 sgr 398 and the seventh european framework programme enbrec.dr.

