these results highlight the sex specific shifts in gut microbiota that occurred upon stz-hfd treatment.at the phylum level the majority of the bacterial phyla identified in the fecal samples were encompassed by bacteriodetes 73.1 in control male mice and 67.4 in control female mice 59.9 in stz-hfd male mice and 57.3 in stz-hfd female mice on average and firmicutes 18.9 in control male mice and 26.5 in control female mice 24.3 in stz-hfd male mice and 13.5 in stz-hfd female mice on average as depicted in this is also reflected by the relatively high simpson index supplementary table s1.the relative amounts measured for other bacteria were 1 proteobacteria 6.7 in control male mice and 5.7 in control female mice 13.9 in stz-hfd male mice and 28.5 in stz-hfd female mice on average2 deferribacteres 1.0 in control male mice and 0.2 in control female mice 1.0 in stz-hfd male mice and 0.3 in stz-hfd female mice on average and 3 actinobacteria 0.1 in control male mice and 0.1 in control female mice 0.7 in stz-hfd male mice and 0.1 in stz-hfd female mice on average.

thus far we have established 1 that male mice are more susceptible to hcc 2 that there are significant sex disparities in gut microbiota in stz-hfd treated mice 3 significant differences at the phylum level exist between male and females both in control and stz-hfd mice4 significant differences in ba metabolizing microbiota were present in male vs. female mice for both control and stz-hfd groups.stz-hfd resulted in significantly higher levels of hepatic bas in male mice than in female mice.

in particular we observed that the bacteria involved in ba metabolism were different between males and females and became significantly different after stz-hfd intervention 2d.as revealed by the opls-da scores plot established using gut microbiota involved in ba metabolism r2x  766 r2y  0.957 q2cum 0.721 the control male control female and stz-hfd female mice were located in the first and second quadrant while stz-hfd male mice were located at the fourth quadrant away from the controls 2e.we also performed the manova on the first three weighted microbial pcoa axes and found that the influ- ence of stz-hfd intervention p  0.0001 sex p  0.001 and the interaction of stz-hfd intervention and sex were significant p  0.0001 per the wilks' test.

e expression of altered mirnas mir-26a mir-26a-1 mir-192 mir-122 mir-22 mir-125b mir-10b and mir-99b were normalized after cholestyramine treatment.more in male mice than in female mice after stz-hfd treatment which presumably facilitated the development of liver tumors in male model mice.ba-binding resin treatment can prevent hcc in male mice with recovered levels of differ- entially expressed bas gut microbiota and mirnas.

the expression of the above-mentioned genes was less altered in female mice than in male mice when exposed to stz-hfd 3d.hepatic expression of mirnas was significantly different between stz-hfd treated male and female mice.

the expression of mrna for ba synthesis cyp7a1 and cyp7b1 was sinificantly down-regulated after stz-hfd intervention in male stz-hfd mice relative to control but the smaller decrease observed for female stz-hfd mice was not statis- tically significant.

the hypothesis was further verified in human male and female individuals in the development of hcc.resultsthe incidence of stz-hfd induced hcc is significantly higher in male mice than in female mice.

e opls-da scores plot r2x  0.766 r2y  0.957 q2  0.721 of mouse gut mcirobiota profiles involved in ba metabolism for classification by sex and stz-hfd treatment.upon hfd in male mice 0.26 to 0.41 and decreased significantly in female mice 0.39 to 0.24. verrucomicrobia was significantly decreased in male mice but was increased in female mice.

as shown in our data a significant decrease in the simpson index alpha diversity was only observed in stz-hfd male mice relative to controls supplementary table s1 which may be a reason why the male mice had a higher risk of developing hcc rela- tive to females.gut microbiota alterations characterized by a significant elevation in aerobic and pro-inflammatory enterobacter enterococcus and clostridium species and a reduction in beneficial anti-inflammatory bifidobacterium and lactobacillus are often found in liver disorder patients.

based on our results the incidence of hcc in male stz-hfd mice was 100 vs. a 12.5 hcc incidence observed in female stz-hfd mice thus revealing a clear sex disparity for development of hcc.stz-hfd intervention induced significant alteration in gut microbiota.

this was confirmed at the level of phylum in ace or chao1 were signif- icantly different between control and stz-hfd group in female mice but with no significant difference in male mice highlighting sex differences in community richness with stz-hfd female mice showing lower communityfigure 1. pathophysiological features of nash-hcc model mice.

female stz-hfd mice scored lower in both diversity and richness relative to the male stz-hfd mice.

in order to determine whether ba transport into and out of the liver was affected by stz-hfd and was responsible for the greater increase in hepatic bas for stz-hfd male mice we next examined mrna expression for the ba transporter genes.sex disparity was found in the expression of hepatic ba transporter mrna.

the levels of bas including tca tcdca tlca 3-keto dca and 7-keto dca and the gut microbiota including corynebacterium corynebacteriaceae rhodococcus nocardiaceae adlercreutzia bacillus bacillaceae staphylococcus staphylococcaceae lactobacillales desulfovibrio desulvibrionales clostrodium and clostridiales were much higher in male stz-hfd mice than in female stz-hfd mice.

a united states 2016 cancer statistic report stated that the incidence of newly diagnosed hepatic cancer was 28410 for male and 10820 cases for females a 2.61 ratio for male vs. female.

