the amplicon presents low intragenomic and intergenomic heterogeneity within species l. pneumophila additional file figure s5 allowing confident identification.in situ determination of specificity of the primer pair lgsp17flgsp28r was performed using ngs libraries of triplicates of 7 water samples two cold drinking water samples 1 and 2 two hot drinking water and three cooling tower water samples - across these samples we obtained a total of 1738388 sequences after quality filtering and removal of genera with a single read with the median number of quality sequences in the sample set being 60455. the mean relative distribution of legionella sequences per sample was 95.2 - 10.8. additionally 47 other taxonomic groups such as genera methylococcus and ricketsiella were amplified but only 4 accounted for 0.1 or more of the sequences classified.

such an approach should be validated with environmental dna obtained from refer- ence water samples of several freshwater environments such as cold and hot drinking water and water from a cooling tower.

regular drinking water is used as make up water whereas blow down is an automated process based on the conductivity of the water.

nat- ural aquatic environments are the major reservoir for legionella species with aerosol-generating man-made water systems such as cooling towers drinking water sup- ply systems dwss and recreational waters being the main sources of human exposure to legionella species .

next-generation sequencing ngs will be more frequently applied for the assess- ment of microbial water quality with the expectation to understand which part of the dwss and which patho- gens are critical to human health especially se- quencing of pcr amplicons of 16s rrna genes has been very successfully used to understand community dynamics of the drinking water microbiome thus high-throughput sequencing of pcr amplicons has the potential to provide valuable information regarding not only the environmental distribution and diversity of legionella species but also the temporal and spatial be- haviour of the whole legionella microbiome.

validation of the developed approach was done in silico in vitro and in situ with emphasis on the latter by using a set of representative freshwater samples including a comparison with real-time pcr measurements in terms of the accuracy of quantifica- tion of legionella genus-specific abundances by the ngs- based approach.methodsfreshwater systems and samplingcold drinking water was sampled in march and april 2009. it was taken from the tap of laboratory d0.04 on the campus of the helmholtz centre for infection re- search hzi braunschweig germany with five minute flushing to prevent stagnant water to be sampled.

this drinking water originates from two surface water reser- voirs situated in the harz mountains 40 km south of braunschweig.

more details on the respective drinking water supply system are given elsewhere hot drink- ing water was sampled in march and april 2009 from a shower next to laboratory d0.04 also with several mi- nutes flushing.

briefly 5 l of drinking water and 3 l of cooling tower water were filtered through a filter sandwich consisting of a 0.2 mm pore size polycarbonate filter 90 mm diameter nucleopore whatman maidstone uk with a precombusted glass fiber filter on top 90 mm diameter gff whatman maidstone uk.

in addition the same range of l. pneumophila was spiked into nuclease free water to verify the existence of amplification inhibition and interference of bacterial community in the quantifi- cation of l. pneumophila in the drinking water sample.

these included unclassified gammaproteobacteria sar86 clade 4.01 - 9.53 genera methylocaldum 0.29 - 0.63 aquicella 0.10 - 0.15 and massilia 0.10 - 0.12. the sar86 clade was solely identified in the cooling tower water samples while the remaining taxa were detected in more than 80 of the total water samples analysed.

in all other water samples the percentage of sequences classified as legionella surpassed the 95 threshold with the highest value being 99.85 sample 4. overall the in situ evaluation of the primer pair lgsp17f lgsp28r demonstrated its high specificity for the assess- ment of legionella community composition.sensitivity and quantification of legionella species using ngsto evaluate the sensitivity of the developed ngs ap- proach for the detection of l. pneumophila and deter- mine the correlation between sequence abundance and the concentration of the legionella species understudy triplicates of two samples nuclease free-water drinking water were spiked-in with a dilution range of the tar- geted bacterium fig.

a very good correlation was observed for both nuclease- free water r2  0.88 and drinking water r2  0.89 spiked samples suggesting that detection and quantifica- tion of l. pneumophila is not considerably affected by the bacterial community of the freshwater sample.a mock community constituted by even concentra- tions of 16s rdna of 9 bacterial strains including 6 legionella species was amplified and sequenced in tripli- cate to determine how accurately the developed ngs assay determines the expected composition relative read abundances and diversity of a defined community.

with its relative abundance being rather low in the cold drinking water samples 0.47 and 0.68 re- spectively and substantially higher in the hot drinking water samples 24.21 and 27.71 respectively additional file table s6.

this observation can explain the highest sensitivity of the method in cold drinking water and cooling tower water samples where l. pneumophila was less abundant.

