The coincidence of a sharp peak in H2 emission and a relatively weak increase in CH4 emission followed by a steeper decline in H2 emission compared with CH4 emission after the peak emission is in line with Olijhoek et al.

Rumen methanogenic archaea do not directly utilize feed but only fermentation products such as H2 which explains why the peak in emission of CH4 appeared after the peak in H2 emission 0.8 vs. 0.5 h. The less steep decline of CH4 emission after its peak compared to H2 emission suggests that the archaeal enzymes are saturated with H2 producing CH4 still close to their maximum rate.

On day 11 of both experimental periods cows started ingestingwhere b is the vector of fixed effects where b1 is the asymptote b2 is a linear multiplier b3 and b4 represent the increase and decline of gas emission after feeding respectively bi is the vector of random effects of the cow x period interaction with i  1... 8 and its covariance matrix Ji Yong Yong Bang Yong kiiDao Gao 1 bij is the vector of random effects of portion nested within the cow x period interaction with j  1 2 3 and its covariance matrix Ji Yong Yong Bang Yong kiiDao Gao 2 eijk is the residual error with variance covariate uijk gas emission rate for the power function gas emission rate or time from feeding for the exponential function and unrestricted parameter o i.e.

Significance of effects was declared at P  0.05 and tendencies to significance at 0.05  P  0.10.Gaseous EmissionsTranslocation of cows to chambers may affect the gas emission profile of that particular day and therefore only data obtained between morning feedings on day 14 and 17 were evaluated.Since cows were fed at 10 and 14 h intervals every day values of H2 and CH4 emission observed between morning and evening feeding and evening and morning feeding were fitted to time separately.

Average daytime CH4 emission rates were 1.12 and 1.07 molh and average overnight CH4 emission rates 1.05 and 1.02 molh for CON and LSO diets respectively.The hyperbolic model fitted best to the log10 transformed H2 emission rate on AIC Table S4.

2016 observed the lowest average dairy cow H2 emission of 6 mmolh over the hour before feeding and the highest average H2 emission of 134 mmolh over the first hour after feeding for their control diet.

2015 who reported the highest average hourly emission from dairy cows in the second hour after feeding whereas the highest average hourly emission was observed in the third hour after feeding by Olijhoek et al.

The CH4 emission rate increased by about a factor two from 0.7 to 1.5 molh in 0.8 h after feeding Figures 4CD.

The Bacteroidales BS11 gut group and the Rikenellaceae RC9 gut group had a positive association with CON and were therefore negatively associated with the LSO.DISCUSSIONIncertae Sedis 1.5 h Streptococcus 1.5 h Prevotella 1.5 h Prevotellaceaeg-NA 1.5-3 h and Lentisphaeria RFP12 gut group 4 h. The six genus-level phylogenetic groupings for the low time point category had high relative abundances atTo our knowledge this is the first comprehensive study that has identified the diurnal profiles of gaseous and dissolved metabolites including lactate and ethanol and the microbiota composition in the rumen along with associated respiration chamber measured H2 and CH4 emission rates.

The aim of this study was therefore to monitor the diurnal patterns of H2 and CH4 dissolved metabolites and microbiota in the rumen as well as H2 and CH4 emission and assess whether the dietary inclusion of linseed oil affected these patterns.METHODS AND MATERIALSExperimental Design Cows Diets Sampling and MeasurementsThe experiment was conducted at the animal research facilities of Wageningen University  Research Wageningen the Netherlands.

