conversely water samples from the pag and rs were significantly different from all coral mucus samples fs  18.42 pamova 0.001. seawater samples were excluded from subsequent analyses to emphasize on fine-scale differences of coral mucus-associated bacterial communities.species richness as well as simpson evenness and inverse simpson indices diversity measures in mucus samples were on average higher for coral bacterial communities from the pag in comparison to the rs all pt-test 0.001 pointing to a more diverse and heterogeneous bacterial community in coral mucus from the pag  supplementary table s2.

based on the presence of stable bacterial associates in our study we infer that the mucus chemical composition did not change although coral bleaching likely affected the availability of carbohydrates for mucus production.it is interesting to note that all mucus samples were dominated by few otus that were previously reported from saline environments arguing that the high salinity of the pag and rs might indeed comprise a struc- tural determinant of bacteria associated with corals in these regions.

we categorized mucus core otus as 'exclusive' when they were not present in any of the water samples as 'mucus-dominant' when the ratio of mean sequence counts in mucus over water samples was 1 and as 'environmental' when the ratio of mean sequence counts in mucus over water samples was 1.functional differences based on bacterial 16s community composition otu taxonomy and abundance were assessed with metagenassist.

following these criteria we identified 42 core otus in mucus from p. lobata colonies 6 of which were only present in mucus samples while another 10 were primarily found in mucus.

mucus samples were collected using sterile syringes by sucking up mucus from the coral surface and by irritating the surface with the syringe tip while concomitantly collecting the released mucus.

we found 70 bacterial otus that were significantly associated with mucus samples from the pag and 24 otus that were significantly associated with mucus samples from the rs regardless of health state both p  0.01 supplementary table s3.

the microbiome of coral surface mucus has an important role in mediating holobiont health and hence the periodical release of mucus supposedly supports maintaining a beneficial bacterial microbiome via the removal of undesirable bacteria from the coral colony surface.

besides the overall similarity of bacterial community composition of mucus from p. lobata colonies we were interested to assess fine-scale dif- ferences in bacterial community composition across health states i.e.

despite the site-specific differences in bacterial communities from the pag and rs we were interested in determining how many and which otus were consistently associ- ated with coral mucus of p. lobata as indicated by the bacterial community composition analysis 1 supplementary fig.

s3 but this difference was not statistically significant pt-test0.05.100806040200 pag 1 2 rs 1 2 3 pag rs 1 2 1 2 3 bacterial families others aegean112staphylococcaceae vibrionaceae balneolaceaecomamonadaceae oxalobacteraceae unclassified rhizobiales caulobacteraceae unclassified bacteria om60saprospiraceae a714017unclassified deltaproteobacteria flammeovirgaceaeunclassified gammaproteobacteria s251238rhodospirillaceae cryomorphaceae dietziaceae pelagibacteraceae ocs155unclassified alphaproteobacteria dermabacteracearhodobacteraceae halomonadaceae flavobacteriaceaepseudomonadaceaeregion reef b h b hb h b h b h seawaterconditionfigure 1. bacterial community composition of mucus from bleached and healthy coral colonies of p. lobata from the persianarabian gulf pag and the red sea rs.

our results show that bacterial community composition of coral mucus is highly similar between bleachedtable 2. core bacterial microbiome of mucus-associated bacteria from bleached and healthy colonies of p. lobata from the pag and the rs.

in line with this we found several abundant and ubiquitous bacterial taxa that we identified as core bacterial microbiome members of coral mucus.

further regional differences in the mucus bacterial microbiome between pag and rs were represented by less abundant bacteria that could be associated with a shift in predicted bacterial functional profiles.

coral mucus is produced in the ectodermal mucus gland cells and originates from photosynthates and compounds derived from heterotrophic feeding.

aged mucus sheets are detached from the coral surface into the water column after which new fluidic mucus is produced at the coral surface leading to a new cycle.

