vaginalis and m. hominis.it has been demonstrated that a higher intracellular atp concentration is correlated with an increased growth rate of several parasites and in fact m. hominis-infected t. vaginalis are characterized by a 20 faster growth rate than mycoplasma-free parasites leading to 40 higher cell den- sities during stationary phase .while the intracellular location and the support of putres- cine represent a major advantage for m. hominis the faster growth rate higher production of intracellular atp rapid depletion of free environmental arginine and subsequent reduced production of free no by activated macrophages are important physiological benefits for t. vaginalis.all of these biochemical aspects of symbiosis might be fundamental for the establishment and maintenance of the strict microbial association between t. vaginalis and m. hominis and thus become an essential part of parasite phys- iopathology and the dynamics of host-microbe interactions.impact of trichomonas symbionts on human host immunity and disease e therapeutic challengesseveral protozoan virulence factors have been identified but it is unclear as to whether they can be therapeutic targets on their own without considering the pathogenic implications of the host immune response.

results obtained with cuban and brazilian strains seem to confirm the absence of a relationship between metronidazole susceptibility and m. hominis infection of the protozoon .although it has been argued that m. hominis parasitism may confer t. vaginalis drug resistance we conclude that most data do not confirm such an association.futility of current antiparasitic therapy to prevent adverse reproductive outcomethe well-described intracellular localization of mycoplasmas can also explain some paradoxical data reporting the failure of metronidazole treatment of subclinical t. vaginalis infections in pregnancy  it can be hypothesized that the administration of the drug when effective against the protozoan infection allows the massive release of m. hominis that can subsequently invade membranes and amniotic fluid.

c. m. girerdii which has been found almost exclusivelyin women positive for t. vaginalis with 63 prevalence of t.vaginalis and c. m. girerdii co-infections .

interestingly il-23 which skews the adaptive immunity to a th17 response was secreted only by macrophages stimulated with m. hominis-infected t. vaginalis but not with the pro- tozoon alone suggesting the ability of m. hominis symbionts to influence the fate of the infection.

very recently a direct molecular mechanism for potential t. vaginalis involvement in prostate tumor transformation and progression has been proposed implicating a protozoan homologue of human macrophage migration inhibitory factor mif a pleiotropic cytokine that mediates inflammation and promotes oncogenesis and prostate cancer .in addition to massive local inflammation synergistically upregulated by trichomonasvirus and m. hominis symbiosis a possible direct role of m. hominis infection in prostate cancer has been proposed.

one of these had a high abun- dance of the uncultured c. m. girerdii and the other had a high abundance of m. hominis.

reported for the first time that in- dividual parasites can carry infection with all four known tvvtable 2summary of studies on detection of m. hominis in t. vaginalis.species simultaneously.

twelve years later a large clinical study showed an association of t. vaginalis infection with m. hominis .

isolated viable m. hominis identified by pcr from long-term in-vitro-cultivated t. vagi- nalis isolates .m.

the energy metabolism of m. hominis is strictly dependent upon the fermentative degradation of free arginine.m.

several groups used pcr to demonstrate the presence of m. hominis in trichomonad isolates of different geographic origin with infection rates ranging from 5 to over 89 .

in addition the intracytoplasmic location of m. hominis in t. vaginalis cells has been demonstrated by gentamicin protec- tion assays and by confocal and electron microscopy .

m. girerdii and t. vaginalis it may be that the bacterium is an obligate symbiont of t. vaginalis.

m. girerdii shows a very small genome of 619 kb with 28.6 gc content and lacks gluconeogenesis the tricarboxylic acid cycle krebs cycle and enzymes for purine pyrimidine and amino acid synthesis.

interest- ingly m. girerdii shows genes encoding proteins homologous to microbial virulence factors such as collagenase hemolysin and endopeptidase .further studies will better characterize the role of this new bacterial species in modulating the virulence of and the host immune response to t. vaginalis infection.molecular characteristics of symbiont infections associated with protozoan genomic features and virulence factorstrichomonasviruscytoadherence to vaginal epithelial cells is a critical step in pathogenesis and is essential for the colonization and the persistence of t. vaginalis infection .

