the bacterial dna contamination from reagents consumables was calculated as the mean plus three standard deviations of 16s rrna gene copies per otu that were present in all three independent nec measurements supplementary tables 6 and 7. the quantified micro- biota profiles obtained using micpcrngs and traditional pcrngs before and after the correction of contam- inating bacterial dna are shown in 2. correcting for both types of bacterial dna contamination resulted in the complete removal of contaminating bacterial dna from smc samples generated using the micpcrngs methodology.

this finding illustrates the higher accuracy of the micpcrngs methodology to quantify contaminating bacterial dna from nec samples and its requirement for the accurate subtraction of contaminating bacterial dna from actual samples.

these non-specific pcr products were most like generated by the relative excess of human dna - compared to bacterial dna - in the samples as the pcrngs methodology successfully generated 16s rrna gene amplicons in smc samples where only bacterial dna and no human dna was present.

we are also thankful to bjorn l. herpers md phd for organizing the collection of skin swab samples included in this study and paul badoux for characterizing the bacterial communities of these samples using bacterial culture.

importantly correcting for contaminating bacterial dna using the two-step strategy as described above removed 92 range 89 - 96 of the resultant otus found in the skin swab samples supplementary table 9. finally we measured a high concordance between the total bacte- rial biomass when estimated indirectly using calibrated micpcrngs without the correction for contaminating bacterial dna compared to the total 16s rrna gene copies obtained when estimated directly using a 16s rrna gene qpcr according to yang et al.

the increased random errors observed using traditional pcrngs makes the accu- rate subtraction of bacterial dna contamination unreliable whilst in contrast the high precision of micpcr ngs resulted in highly accurate quantification of contaminating 16s rrna gene copies resulting in improved quantitative microbiota profiles that were free of contaminating bacterial dna from environmental sources.using micpcrngs we determined the quantitative microbiota profiles of low biomass skin swab samples.

these contaminating dna molecules can be derived from two sources 1 contami- nating bacterial dna present within the sample-processing environment and 2 contaminating bacterial dna already present in the reagentsconsumables used during sample processing.

values within bars represent the calculated number of 16s rrna gene copies per bacterial otu.staphylococcus and neisseria species were commonly found and could be confirmed by bacterial culture.

additionally accurate quantification of otus obtained from negative extraction control samples allows for the subtractionof contaminating bacterial dna derived from the laboratory environment or chemicalsreagents used.

in contrast the variety of contaminating bacterial dna from reagentsconsumables will be dependent on the manufacturer and batch numbers of the actual reagentsconsumables used and will be present in all samples processed using these particular reagentsconsumables.in this report we present a novel approach that employs micpcrngs in combination with an internal cali- brator ic to determine the composition and absolute quantity of microbiotal genera.

we utilized this calibrated micpcrngs approach to process a range of samples in trip- licate in order to increase accuracy and to correct for contaminating bacterial dna derived from the laboratory environment.

in addition contaminating bacterial dna derived from the reagentsconsumables used during micpcrngs were subtracted from samples via the use of a negative extraction control nec.

the synthetic microbial community smc samples tested contained equimolar 16s rrna gene copy numbers derived from four different bacterial species and ranged from 2500 to 2.5 16s rrna gene copies per species.

for example traditional pcrngs resulted in a coefficient of variation of 0.8 0.5 0.9 and 3.0 for the smc samples containing 2500 250 25 and 2.5 16s rrna gene copies per bacterial species respectively.

16s rrna gene microbiota profiles obtained from synthetic microbial community samples comparing the results of micpcrngs to traditional pcrngs before and after correction for contaminating bacterial dna.

