in accordance with previous observations we observed a slight increase in caveolin-1 abundance in ko def versus wt def f.itf treatment impacts resting parameters and vascular reactivity in mesenteric arteriesresting tone was significantly higher in mesenteric arteries iso- lated from ko def itf mice compared with untreated mice a. this effect was associated with a significantly larger mean arterial diameter as compared with wt def mice  b. mesenteric arteries from ko def itf mice contracted sig- nificantly more in response to kcl-enriched solution 50 mm compared with all other groups c. intima-media thick- ness in mesenteric arteries from ko def mice was significantly reduced in comparison with either treated or untreated wt def mice de.

itf treatment did not modify the plasma lipids profile see online s4.itf treatment increases glucagon-like peptide 1 production itf treatment in ko def itf mice provoked a threefold increase in active portal glucagon-like peptide 1 glp-1 con- centrations as compared with ko def mice a. increased expression of gcg and of an enzyme involved in glp-1 maturation namely prohormone convertase 13 pc13 were observed in ko def itf mice b. differentiation factors neurod1 and neurogenin 3 ngn3 were not modified by itf treatment suggesting they are not involved in higher dif- ferentiationofenteroendocrinecellsproducingglp-1.

statisticalanalyses were performed using graphpad prism v.5.00 for windows.resultsendothelial dysfunction is improved by itf treatment through the activation of the no synthaseno pathwayas expected mesenteric arteries isolated from n-3 pufa-depleted apoe-- mice ko def developed a significant endothelial dysfunction attested by the reduced vasodilation to cumulative doses of ach a. fifteen days of itf supple- mentation significantly improved the relaxation of mesentericarteries isolated from n-3 pufa-depleted apoe-- mice supple- mented with itfs ko def itf as compared with wt mice treated or not a. the non-selective no synthase nos inhibitor l-name completely blunted the relaxation in mesenteric resistance arteries independently of diet or genetic background suggesting an implication of the nosno pathway b. in line with endothelial dysfunction ko def mice displayed a 40 decrease in haem-nitrosylated haemoglobinfigure 1 endothelium-dependent relaxation.

the beneficial effects of itfs on mesenteric arteries relaxation were also observed in carotid arteries isolated from ko def itf mice d. we used western blotting to assess total endothelial nos enos as well as its activating serine 1177 phosphorylated form  p-enosser1177 along with its allosteric regulator caveolin-1 e. enos phosphorylation was twofold higher in mes- enteric arteries from ko def itf mice compared with ko def mice while total enos protein was not significantly affected by genotype andor diet.

data n15-18 are expressed as mean-sem and analysed by one-way analysis of variance followed by tukey's post-tests  versus wt def  versus wt def itf  versus ko def.in ko def mice while the itf treatment restored its abundance to a similar level as observed in wt mice g. concomitantly itfs also led to a decreased relative abundance of desulfovibrionales and clostridiales orders and of the ruminococcaceae and lachnospiraceae families only in the ko genotype for the last family h. discriminant analysesusing lefse confirmed these results .

moreover otu 1 identified as akkermansia muciniphila was increased by fourfold in ko def itf versus ko def mice reaching 16 of the gut microbiota in ko def itf mice.

this resulted in a significantly increased p-enosser1177enos ratio in mesenteric arteries iso- lated from ko def itf mice compared with samples from ko def itf.

data with superscript symbol  vs wt def  vs wt def itf or vs ko def were significantly different  p0.05.

data are expressed as mean-sem and analysed by one-way or two-way analysis of variance followed by tukey's or bonferroni's post-tests  versus wt def  versus wt def itf  versusko def.hb-no levels measured by electron paramagnetic resonance as compared with wt def mice.

data are expressed as mean-sem and analysed by one-way analysis of variance followed by tukey's post-tests versus wt def  versus wt def itf versus ko def.

interestingly media remodelling was completely reversed by 15 days of itf supplementation.microarray analysis highlights several pathways affected by itf treatmentto identify the mechanisms underlying the improvement in endothelial function by itf treatment we analysed we analysed caecal gene expression profiles by microarray .

itf supplementa- tion significantly upregulated hepatic mrna levels of cyp7a1 the rate-limiting enzyme of the classical ba synthesis pathway a. although cyp27a1 which is mostly involved in the alternative pathway was not affected by itf treatment the expression of cyp7b1 was decreased by itf treatment.

cyp8b1 was not modified by the itf supplementation a. itf treatment significantly enhanced markers of bas reuptake in the ileum slc10a2 fabp6 slc51ab b. itf treatment also increased the ba concentration which was mainly due to the rise in free bas rather than the tauro-conjugated bas  c-f. more precisely the primary bas cholic acid ca and chenodeoxycholic acid cdca increased strongly in the portal and systemic blood as well as in the caecal content.

unpaired t-test was used for comparison between ko def and ko def itf mice.

heatmap from microarray analysis representing the top 50 upregulated genes in the caecum based on the list of genes upregulated by 1.5-fold between ko def itf and ko def mice.

