using microscopy a decrease in melanin production and a change in the distribution of melanosomes with a resultant decrease in epidermal mela- nin was shown in pmh lesions 12 13.based on multilocus sequence typing mlst and sin- gle-locus sequence typing slst schemes and complete genome sequencing the population of p. acnes has been shown to consist of several phylogenetic subtypes com- monly designated ia1 ia2 ib ic ii and iii 14-21. a previous study based on bacterial cultivation has in- dicated that certain subtypes of p. acnes may be associ- ated with pmh an abundance of a specific but unidenti- fied type of p. acnes was observed in pmh lesions that is different from p. acnes types isolated from acne lesions 22. recently we cultured p. acnes isolates belonging to the otherwise uncommon type iii from lesions of pmh patients and sequenced their genomes 23 and a very recent study revealed an abundance of p. acnes type iii in bacterial cultures from lesional skin in 14 of 34 pmh patients 24.in the present study the type distribution of the entire population of p. acnes in affected and unaffected skin ar- eas of pmh patients including samples after treatment and matching control samples was determined using a culture-independent next-generation sequencing ngs- based slst approach.

in contrast in the matching control samples only 14.2 of the reads could be assigned to p. acnes type iii p value 7.8 x 10-5. instead control samples containeda higher proportion of type ia1 sts a to e strains 56.8 and type ii st k strains 22.3 while these were found in much lower proportions in pmh lesions type ia1 12.8 and type ii 5.6. individual variation among the patients and controls was observed the pro- portion of type iii in the total p. acnes population varied between 50 and 91 in pmh lesions and between 0 and 53 in control samples fig.

thedominant p. acnes type on the lower back skin of healthy controls was type ii 33.5 a type that was rarely de- tected on the upper back 4.0. the dominating type of the upper back and the abdomen was type ia1 44.7 and 40.6 respectively.pmh treatment alters the p. acnes population and diminishes the proportion of type iii strainsnext we wanted to investigate how the treatment of pmh with a combination of lymecycline and bpo might alterfig.

comprehensive comparison of type iii genomes to p. acnes genomes of other subtypes has identified several genomic regions specific to type iii genomes encoding functions such as type ii secretion system abc transporter inosi- tol transportmodification gyrase integrase transposase oligopeptide transport and processing of sugarsamino ac- ids 24 33 34. in addition some genes are absent from type iii genomes but present in all other types including hyaluronate lyase magnesium-chelatase iron transporter bacteriocin 3-isopropylmalate dehydrogenase maltose transporter and periplasmic binding protein.

5b.existence of a specific type iii linage associated with pmh lesionssince type iii strains were also detected albeit fewer in healthy samples in particular on the lower back skin we wanted to investigate if pmh-associated type iii strains belong to a specific lineage that is different from health- associated type iii strains.

strikingly successful pmh treatment is able to alter the composition of the p. acnes population by substantially diminish- ing the proportion of p. acnes type iii.our study suggests that p. acnes type iii may play a role in the formation of pmh.

interestingly a regional difference in prevalent type iii clones was suggested based on comparisons of pmh isolates from europe and brazil 24.the mechanism leading to macular hypomelanosis is not known but ultrastructural studies have shown less melanized and aggregated melanosomes instead of single mature melanosomes transferred from melanocytes to ke- ratinocytes 12. the association with p. acnes type iii suggests that a type iii-specific factor could be involved.

the analyses showed that pmh-associated type iii p. acnes belong pre- dominantly to the sts l1 56 and l6 25 the latter st was detected at lower rates among health-associated type iii p. acnes 9 fig.

acnes subtype iii was first reported as a new phy- logenetic type in 2008 based on four strains isolated from spinal intervertebral disc material 17. in addition sub- type iii isolates were recently detected in surgically ex- cised lumbar disc herniations from 5 of 24 patients 30. subtype iii bacterial cells differ from other p. acnes types in showing a long filamentous morphology reminiscent of propionibacterium propionicum.

as in other studies no malassezia fungus was detected and only few bacteria of other species mainly staphylo- coccus epidermidis were found.our study revealed a high proportion 74 of p. acnes type iii in lesional skin and also a relatively high propor- tion 53 of type iii isolates in adjacent nonlesional skin of the patients.

moreover an indication that subtype iii is involved in the pmh disease pathogenesis was re- vealed by the comparison of patient samples before and after treatment therapy with lymecycline and bpo both highly active against p. acnes led to a diminished propor- tion of type iii which was paralleled by the disappearance of clinical pmh lesions.the applied ngs-based slst approach gave an aver- age of 7911 reads per sample with 97 of reads assigned to known p. acnes sts.

each st type a to l is given a color as indicated and the corresponding p. acnes subtype is given in bracketsthe p. acnes type distribution.

most previous p. acnes stud- ies have shown a predominance of type ia1 followed by type ii and ib among skin isolates derived from the face or upper back 14 16 18. the present study is the most detailed study on p. acnes subtype distribution on different body sites.

on the buccal mucosa type ia1 was predominant in most patients.looking at the p. acnes phylotype distribution of pa- tients on nonlesional skin sites a dominance of type iii strains was detected albeit at a lesser extent than on le- sional skin 53 versus 74 respectively fig.

this corroborates the previous finding of a unique unidentified p. acnes type in pmh patients 22 and the recent report that type iii strains were cultured from lesions of 14 of 34 pmh patients 24.the ngs-based slst approach provided no data on the presence of other bacterial species or the total bacte- rial numbers but only on the proportional distribution ofp.

