The critical steps regarding i patient selection ii donor selection and screening and iii biobanking of faeces have been thor- oughly analysed and discussed in the manuscript together with other critical steps  patient preparation faecal delivery monitoring of side effects and many others on which we have issued appro- priate statements.Honestly it is not clear to us why Dr Terveer and colleagues discourage the implementation of such centres and refer- ence team to prevent unnecessary second- ary spread of Clostridium difficile and even how the cited reference fits with this topic.Moreover a number of advantages of the use of frozen donor faeces were reported in the consensus paper.

 PostScriptFaecal microbiota transplantation in clinical practiceWe thank Dr Terveer and colleagues for their correspondence on our faecal micro- biota transplantation FMT consensus report.Their comments enrich the dis- cussion on this topic which was not fully developed in the paper because of word count limitations.Our report aimed at providing evidence-based statements on the applica- tion of FMT in clinical practice.

Gut January 2017 Vol 67 No 1 PostScript At the time of planning the working group we were aware that donor faeces banks already exist in some countries.

We thank Dr Teever and colleagues for having pointed out the advantage of re-testing frozen donor faeces.

However this possibility was implicit both in our statements and in the related comments.Finally we commend the activities of the non-profit Netherlands donor faeces bank and believe that this model does not conflict with FMT centres in any way.

Gut January 2017 Vol 67 No 1centres fully structured within the health- care system we think that many of the issues raised in the report can be useful to regulate the development of donor faeces banks.

Thus consensus experts were chosen according to their scientific profiles in the field of FMT including the various procedural steps and its possible clinical application IBD IBS metabolic syndrome etc.

Nevertheless as the consensus had evidence-based practical purposes and since the aforementioned banks had not published any scientific report on their activities we did not want to be biased a priori in formulating our statements and therefore we chose not to involve these banks.The consensus report beyond encour- aging the development of referral FMT centres includes a series of statements to recommend their implementation in hos- pitals with appropriate expertise includ- ing a trained multidisciplinary team and facilities to safely perform the procedure and manage the potential-related adverse events.

European consensus conference on faecal microbiota transplantation in clinical practice.

In par- ticular it was remarked that frozen stool banks allow faecal donors to be thor- oughly screened and that FMT procedure and donor screening documentation should be recorded and stored for at least 10 years to archive material in case of future adverse events.

