a recent meta-analysis of anti-inflammatory medica- tions in the management of treatment-resistant schizophrenia showed therapeutic effects of fish oils n-acetyl-cysteine and estradiol .vitamin-d studies in schizophrenia patientsseveral lines of evidence support a role for vitamin-d defi- ciency in the risk for schizophrenia.

indeed two cross-sectional studies have reported that vitamin-d is inversely associated with levels of c-reactive protein a marker of inflammation in psychosis  .despite all this circumstantial evidence a recent mendelian causation study  looking at snps associated with serum vitamin-d and schizophrenia in 34241 schizophrenia cases and 45604 controls found no evidence for causal effect of vitamin- d on the risk for schizophrenia.

 1 fiona gaughran2 2 and 31 centre for primary care and public health barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry blizard institute queen mary university of london london uk 2 department of psychosis studies king's college london institute of psychiatry psychology and neuroscience national psychosis service south london and maudlsey nhs foundation trust london uk 3 neuroinflammation and psychoimmunology group department of neuroscience and trauma barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry blizard institute queen mary university of london london ukedited bykarl bechter university of ulm germanyreviewed bydietmar fuchs innsbruck medical university austriabernhard j. mitterauer volitronics-institute for basic research psychopathology and brainphilosophy austriacorrespondence ute-christiane meier specialty sectionthis article was submittedto schizophrenia a section of the journal frontiers in psychiatryreceived 28 october 2016accepted 08 march 2017published 27 march 2017citation kocv ovska e gaughran f krivoy a and meier u-c 2017 vitamin-d deficiency as a potential environmental risk factor in multiple sclerosis schizophrenia and autism.front.

recent cross genomic studies which addressed the common architecture between schizophrenia and those of other psychiatric and non-psychiatric traits revealed links between schizophrenia and ms .

intriguingly recent population-based studies found that several psychiatric comorbidities including schizophrenia anxiety depression and bipolar disorder were more common in ms population than in a matched control cohort   as were white matter changes and myelin-related dysfunction in schizophrenia .this work suggests that a subgroup of patients with schizo- phrenia may demonstrate aspects of an autoimmune process.

injecting pregnant mice with synthetic double-stranded dna poly ic to mimic viral infec- tionsinterferon responses and lipopolysaccharide a highly inflammatory component of bacterial cell walls elicits mor- phological and behavioral changes characteristic of the brain in schizophrenia  however the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood.the autoimmune hypothesis is also strengthened by the finding of increased autoimmune disease in relatives of schizo- phrenic patients and the inverse relationship of schizophrenia with rheumatoid arthritis and connective tissue diseases .

these findings added to the evidence that dark-skinned minority groups in cold countries have a greater risk of schizophrenia  have led to the hypothesis that low vitamin-d especially during early life may be implicated in the genesis of schizophrenia .

thus the evidence suggests that low vitamin-d not only disrupts early brain development but may also compromise later periods of brain growth and maturation.a prospective finnish birth cohort study looked at one way of addressing this risk and found that vitamin-d supplementation in males during the first year of life resulted in a reduced risk of them later developing schizophrenia .it is therefore plausible that vitamin-d may reduce inflam- mation and enhance resilience to neurobiological or pathogen- induced insults which might increase risk of schizophrenia.

schizophrenia risk from complex variation of complement component 4. nature 2016 5307589177-83. dobechter k. updating the mild encephalitis hypothesis of schizophrenia.

developmental vitamin d deficiency and risk of schizophrenia a 10-year update.

neonatal vitamin d status and risk of schizophrenia a population-based case-control study.

arch gen psychiatry 2010 679889-94. doitzhaky d amital d gorden k bogomolni a arnson y amital h. low serum vitamin d concentrations in patients with schizophrenia.

bmc psychiatry 2016 1676. dovalipour g saneei p esmaillzadeh a. serum vitamin d levels in relation to schizophrenia a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies.

high levels of vitamin d in relation to reduced risk of schizophrenia with elevated c-reactive protein.

vitamin d effects on brain development adult brain function and the links between low levels of vitamin d and neuro- psychiatric disease.

