we also generated metabolic network reconstructions for each metagenome using the pathway tools software empowering researchers and clinicians interested in visualizing and interpreting metabolic pathways encoded by the human gut microbiome.

specifically support for metabolic pathway annotation varies significantly among pipelines due to differences in reference database selection with resulting impact on metabolic network comparisons.

pathway tools is a production-quality software environment developed at sri international that supports metabolic inference and flux balance analysis based on the metacyc database of metabolic pathways and enzymes representing all domains of life.

for example comparing epgdbs with sets of microbial pgdbs from the same environment can aid inidentifying 'distributed pathways' present in the metagenome metabolic reconstruction but absent from any individual genomic metabolic reconstruction.

applied and environmental microbiology 72 5069-5072 2006.lowe t. m.  eddy s. r. trnascan-se a program for improved detection of transfer rna genes in genomic sequence.nucleic acids res 25 955-964 1997.green m. l.  karp p. d. a bayesian method for identifying missing enzymes in predicted metabolic pathway databases.bmc bioinformatics 5 76 2004.dale j. m. popescu l.  karp p. d. machine learning methods for metabolic pathway prediction.

for the first time gutcyc provides consistent annotations and metabolic pathway predictions making possible comparative community analyses between health and disease states in inflammatory bowel disease crohn's disease and type 2 diabetes.

increasingly researchers are using high-throughput sequencing approaches to study the genes and genomes of microbiomes and characterize diversity and metabolic potential in relation to health and disease states opening new opportunities for prevention and therapeutic intervention at the interface of microbial ecology bioinformatics and medicine.

despite providing essential ecosystem services including nutritional provisioning detoxification and immunological conditioning the metabolic network driving matter and energy transformations by the distal gut microbiome remains largely unknown.

several large-scale metagenomic datasets derived from hundreds of microbiome samples from the human microbiome project hmp beijing genomics institute bgi and metagenomes of the human intestinal tract project metahitare now available on-line creating an opportunity for large-scale metabolic network comparisons.while the studies cited above provide the sequencing data they do not provide the software environment used for generating their annotations.

such mapping is limited because there is no simple way to query manipulate or visualize the underlying implicit metabolic model directly.

unlike kegg metacyc emphasizes smaller evolutionarily conserved or co-regulated units of metabolism and contains the largest collection over 2400 of experimentally validated metabolic pathways.

navigable and extensively commented pathway descriptions literature citations and enzyme properties combined within an epgdb provide a coherent structure for exploring and interpreting predicted metabolic networks from the human microbiome across multiple levels of biological information dna rna protein and metabolites.

over 9800 pgdbs have been developed by researchers around the world and thus epgdbs represent a data format for metabolic reconstructions that exhibit a potential for reusability in further studies.here we present gutcyc a compendium of over 418 epgdbs constructed from public shotgun metagenome datasets generated by the hmp the metahit inflammatory bowel disease study and the bgi diabetes study.

relevant pipeline modules are summarized in 1. gutcyc provides consistent taxonomic and functional annotations facilitates large-scale and reproducible comparisons between epgdbs and directly links into robust software and database resources for exploring and interpreting metabolic networks.

this metabolic network reconstruction provides a multidimensional view of the microbiome that invites discovery and collaboration.methodsmetagenomic data sourceswe collected 418 assembled human gut shotgun metagenomes from public repositories and supplementary materials sourced from the hmp american healthy subjects n  148 a metahit european inflammatory bowel disease subjects n  125 and a bgi chinese type 2 diabetes subjects n  145 study.

