Exceptions to the canonical catalytic apparatus in addition to histidine described in depth in Results and Discussion include enzymes in GH95 where asparagine residues function as the catalytic base 5 whereas the catalytic nucleophile in GH33 GH34 and GH83 sialidases and GH127 arabinofuranosidases are tyrosine 6 and cysteine respectively 7.L-Rhamnose L-Rhap is found in a wide range of glycans in plants particularly the rhamnogalacturonans RGI and RGII and arabinogalactan proteins AGP Fig.

An additional surprising feature of the GH145 family is the significant number of proteins that lack the catalytic histidine and appear to be inactive and it is particularly in- triguing that catalytic competence can be installed by introducing the catalytic histidine.AGPs are important polysaccharides in plant biology and inthe food industry.

The potential contribution of His48 to the catalytic activity of BT3686 is discussed.rhamnosidase  human gut microbiota  gum arabic  Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron  catalytic histidinehe human large bowel is a highly competitive environment where limited carbon resources in the form of complex gly- cans are competed for by a vast number of microorganisms de- fined as the human gut microbiota HGM 1.

Strik- ingly the active site is in an unusual location for b-propeller en- zymes the catalytic apparatus lacks the canonical acidic residues and the proposed catalytic histidine is not invariant within the family.

The lack of conservation of the proposed catalytic residue in a GH family although not un-precedented is extremely unusual exceptions are found in GH1 GH23 and GH43 where the lack of a catalytic residue influ- ences specificity 19-21 and GH97 where Glu-Asp substi- tutions alters mechanism 22.

This mechanism is only possible on sugars where the O2 and the leaving group are situated in an antiperiplanar configuration as is the case for a-L-rhamnose.Whether His48 functions as the catalytic nucleophile in a standard double-displacement mechanism or in the highly un- usual epoxide mechanism a catalytic acidbase residue is re- quired to protonate the leaving group and to activate a water molecule in the second phase of the reaction.

Although this aminoacid has been shown to be a key catalytic residue in a small number of carbohydrate active enzymes there is no precedent for the imidazole residue comprising the sole catalytic apparatus of natural GHs.

Unusual active site location and catalytic apparatus in a glycoside hydrolase familyJose Munoz-Munoza1 Alan Cartmella1 Nicolas Terraponb Bernard Henrissatbcd and Harry J. Gilberta2aInstitute for Cell and Molecular Biosciences Newcastle University Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH United Kingdom bArchitecture et Fonction des Macromolecules Biologiques CNRS Aix-Marseille University F-13288 Marseille France cUSC1408 Architecture et Fonction des Macromolecules Biologiques Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique F-13288 Marseille France and dDepartment of Biological Sciences King Abdulaziz University 23218 Jeddah Saudi ArabiaEdited by Daniel J. Cosgrove Pennsylvania State University University Park PA and approved March 16 2017 received for review January 20 2017The human gut microbiota use complex carbohydrates as major nutrients.

In contrast to the vast majority of GH the catalytic apparatus of BT3686 does not comprise a pair of carboxylic acid residues but uniquely a single histidine functions as the only discernable cata- lytic amino acid.

The structural fold catalytic apparatus and mechanism are highly conserved within families.

