reviewstrigolactones in plant interactions with beneficial and detrimental organisms the yin and yangjuan a. lopez-raez1ken shirasu2 3strigolactones sls are plant hormones that have important roles as modu- lators of plant development.

in particular the specific rhizosphere microbiome has a pivotal role in plant nutrient and water acquisition and the ability of the plant to cope with abiotic stresses such as drought salinity and high andor low temperatures and can provide the plant with protection against pests and diseases.

however given the mobility of sls both inside and outside the plant as well as their role in plant development an understanding of their influence on plant interactions with other organisms is essential for future endeavors.

plant interactions may also be detrimental causing damage or disease to the host plant as in the interaction with pathogenic bacteria or fungi oomycetes nematodes or root parasitic plants.

aboveground plants may interact with microbes insect herbivores birds and other plants that constitute the phyllo- sphere see  and influence plant growth and development .

belowground plant roots grow in a highly dynamic environment containing fungi bacteria nematodes invertebrates parasitic plants and the roots of neighboring plants  key figure.

in higher plants the presence of sls in the rhizosphere has been recruited as a host detection signal by mutualistic am fungi from the glomeromycota and root parasitic plants from the family orobanchaceae and  .strigolactones in beneficial associations the yangarbuscular mycorrhizal symbiosissls present in root exudates attract am fungi of the glomeromycota during the presymbiotic phase and  both by enhancing the germination of spores and metabolic activity and by promoting am fungal hyphal branching to increase the chance of contacttable 1. proposed roles for sls in plant interactions with other organisms in the rhizosphere and phyllosphereaathe specific function for sls in each beneficial or detrimental interaction is detailed.between the hyphae and the host root .

independently of nutrient status it appears that plants may partially control the levels of colonization by regulating the production of sls because plants well colonized with am fungi or rhizobia display a reduction in their sl biosynthesis .in addition to these well-known symbioses plants can interact with many other benign or beneficial microorganisms present in the rhizosphere including ectomycorrhizal fungi fungal endophytes such as trichoderma spp.

here we examine the role of sls in plant interactions with beneficial and detrimental organisms and propose possible future biotechnological applications.the plant microbiomeplants interact with a range of organisms both above- and belowground.

these interactions are influenced by chemical communication between the host plant and its associated microbiome particularly by the production and exudation of secondary metabolites by the plant into the rhizosphere .

they may be beneficial to the host plant either nutritional or affecting tolerance andor resistance to different stresses as in the case of arbuscular mycorrhizal am fungi trichoderma rhizobia and plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria pgpr.

in all these plant interactions chemical communication between the plant and the other organism is essential.

this includes an important role in germination and seedling photomorphogenesis originally identified as mediating the response to the smoke signal karrikin .each plant produces a different blend of sls in different amounts and this is influenced by the plant developmental stage and environmental conditions .

however because max2 also acts in the kai2 sl-independent signaling pathway  future studies examining the response of sl biosynthesis andor sl receptor mutants are required to elucidate any specific role for sl in defense against these pathogens.strigolactones interact with plant defense phytohormonessome of the studies described above suggest that sls rather than having a direct effect on the growth or development of pathogenic organisms interact in planta with other plant defense hormones to influence disease development.

however the fact that several nonhost plant species can synthesize am-active noncanonical sls  and that the application of synthetic sls cannot induce symbiosis in non-am plants indicate that factors others than sls are the primary determinants of the am host status.

