to test whether the changes had a role in ageing valenzano and his colleagues transplanted gut microbes from 6-week-old fish into middle- aged 9.5-week-old fish.first they gave the middle-aged fish antibi- otics to clear out their gut flora and then put them in a sterile aquarium with the gut contents of young fish for 12 hours.

the transplant also dramati- cally affected longevity median lifespan was 41 longer in fish that received 6-week-old microbiomes than in control fish exposed to microbes from similarly aged animals.microbes from older fish had no lifespan effect on young fish.how microbes influence lifespan is hazy valenzano says.

416016-6022 2014.at links between gut microbes and lifespan humans and mice lose some gut microbial diversity with age and once-rare and harmful species can take over.

killifish don't usually eat faeces valenzano notes but they bit at the gut contents ingesting microbes in the process.

at 16 weeks old the middle- aged fish that received 'young microbes' had gut microbiomes that resembled those of the 6-week-olds.

 microbiota fish live longer on 'young poo'gutmicrobes of young killifish can extend lives of older ones.people in the developing world could benefit from improved precipitation forecasts.by ewen callawayt may not be an appetizing way to extend life but researchers have found that older fish live longer after eating microbes from the poo of younger fish.

previous work has hintedcompany's technology without access to more data.the fact thata start-up company and com- mercial investors are willing to putmoney into this technology is good news but i believe there is room for all says hagit messer an electrical engineer at tel aviv university in israel who led the 2006 study.

the result is a minute- by-minute estimate of rainfall ona 500-metre- resolution map that encompasses the city.a brave new worldjafet andersson an smhi hydrologist says that the project has helped to advance the technology.

this will make it easier to extend thetechnology to developing countries.it will take some time but we are in the process of industrializing it on a country scale or even a global scale andersson says.

a team led by marielle gosset a hydrologist at the french institute for development research in toulouse demonstrated a proof-of-concept system in burkina faso3 in 2012 and has since branched out to other countries includingniger and cameroon.the technology is attracting interest in africa because conventional weather-mon- itoring systems such as radar are too expen- sive gosset says.

weather forecasts based on microwave signals give developing countries a similar system but for less money she says.

project scientists hope to create a model that will enable a smooth partnershipwith the industry.i think that this door is just about to open says andersson.

these microbes recolonized the guts of the middle-aged fish.

one possibility is that immune systems wear out with age allowing harmful microbes to take root.

but valenzano says it is much too early to consider transplants for life extension.

