the relative abundances of phylum proteobacteria and genus desulfovibrio in the caecal and colonic contents were the highest in the fish oil group p  0.05. the mrna levels of biomarkers for inflammation in the colon including il-1b il-6 il-17 il-18 and tnf-a were also the highest in the fish oil group p 0.05. meanwhile the fish oil group had the highest microbial dna abundance of a predicted lipid metabolism.

incubation of caecal bacteria with fish oil induced higher abundances of predicted lipid metabolism and genetic information processing p  0.05 but lower abundances of predicted amino acid metabolism and enzyme families p  0.05. on the corresponding third kegg level the abundances of predicted metabolism of bile acids and fatty acids and dna repair and recombination proteins were higher in the fish oil group than those of the lard group and the soybean oil group while the abundances of predicted amino acid related enzymes were the lowest in the fish oil group supplementary fig.

this indicated that the fish oil diet had a different impact on gut microbiota of middle-aged rats from the lard and soybean oil diets.on the phylum level the caecal and colonic samples of the fish oil group could be separated from those of the soybean oil group and the lard group fig.

the fish oil group had a significantly higher abundance of proteobacteria than the other two groups p 0.05. verrucomicrobia and tenericutes were more abundant in the lard group p 0.05 than those in the fish oil group and the soybean oil group.

on the otu level 31 phylotypes were identified in caecal content samplesfigure 2. comparisons of gut bacteria on otu level using lefse a caecal bacteria b colonic bacteria between soybean oil and fish oil c colonic bacteria between lard and fish oil.

the remaining 10 otus were more abundant in the fish oil group p 0.05 including lactobacillus otu137 otu153 and otu878 and desulfovibrio otu917.twenty-six otus were observed different between the lard group and the fish oil group fig.

in the in vivo study the amount of triglyceridesin the ileal contents was the highest in the lard group but the lowest in the fish oil group as it is in the caecum supplementary table  indicating that fish oil can be more efficiently absorbed than lard in the small intestine.

and thus it is inferred that the oxidation of pufas in fish oil could induce the higher abundance of proteobacteria in the fish oil group.

in this study we explored gut microbiota structure in middle-aged rats aged 12 months after feeding 4 ww soybean oil lard or fish oil for 3 months respectively.

the results showed that the gut microbiota structure in the fish oil group was substantially different from those of the soybean oil and lard groups in both in vitro and in vivo studies.

ourresults gave a new insight into the potentially negative impact of fish oil diet on health of middle-aged populations by changing gut microbiota and inducing inflammation as compared to soybean oil and lard diets.in recent years high-fat diets have been associated with overweightobesity and increased mortality in middle-aged populations and the mediterranean diet containing olive oil may reduce the risk to mortality at mid- dle ages .

for example pork lard and beef fat contain high amounts of saturated fatty acids sfa while fish oil is composed of higher levels of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids pufa.

however to our knowledge it remains unclear how gut microbiota in middle-aged populations responds to different type of fat diets.the present study was to explore the responses of gut microbiota of middle-aged rats to intake of lard fish oil and soybean oil.

unifrac principal co-ordinate analysis showed great differences between the fish oil group and the soybean oil group for both caecal and colonic samples.

firmicutes and bacteroidetes constituted the vast majority of caecal microbiota for all the three diet groups ranging from 82 to 93. the ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes was the highest for the lard group 3.27 - 1.47 3.01 - 1.96 and 2.20 - 1.02 for the lard fish oil and soybean oil groups respectively.

