we have recently shown that h. pylori binding may also be achieved through recognition of lacdinac-specific adhesin laba recognizing specifically the glycan fuca1-2galb1-3galnacb1- 4glcnacb1-6galnac and being a plausible cause for the tropism of h. pylori for the gastric mucosa .conclusionbacteria have adopted various strategies to infect their targets or colonize their host binding to mucins being a crucial step for many of them .

the ability of h. pylori to reside in the stomach mucus results from the capacity of this bacteria to buffer its environment by increasing the ph from very acidic to milder conditions using an urease but also from its propensity to bind glycan structures present on stomach mucins.in healthy individuals h. pylori binds to leb motifs present on the stomach mucin muc5ac via the blood group antigen-binding adhesin baba present on the bacteria .

baba-mediated binding to muc5ac is a crucial adhesion process for h. pylori and the expression of this adhesin is a virulence factor associated with increased risk for overt disease .

the up-regulation of glycosyltransferases implicated in the biosynthesis of mucino-glycans may result in a remodelling of secreted mucins with neo- or expression of glycan antigens favouring bacterial attachment or limiting its binding.the adherence-associated lipoprotein ab alpab has also been implicated in h. pylori binding to the gastric mucosa but the ligand of this adhesin seems to be the laminin constituting the basement membrane .

2004 functional adaptation of baba the h. pylori abo blood group antigen binding adhesin.

whereas strong leb-binding strains of h. pylori possess the allele baba2 leb-non-binding strains of h. pylori usually possess a silent allele of baba gene sequence baba1 which can be activated by recombination into the babb locus.

2004 metastability of helicobacter pylori bab adhesin genes and dynamics in lewis b antigen binding.

2015 structural basis of lewisb antigen binding by thehelicobacter pylori adhesin baba.

science 297 573-578 doi10.1126science.1069076ota h. nakayama j. momose m. hayama m. akamatsu t. katsuyama t. et al.

cl2 dl1 and dl2 co-operate to modulate and orientate binding of baba towards abo leb type 1 chain antigens.upon infection by h. pylori the rate of sialylated mucins scarce in a healthy stomach increases signifi- cantly .

with advances in microarray technologies o-glycan microarrays can provide a sensitive high-throughput tool allowing the analysis of adhesin-mediated bacterial binding in a format compatible with limited sample amounts.abbreviationsbaba blood group antigen-binding adhesin cfai colonization factor antigen i fimbriae cl2 clasped loop 2 dl2 diversification loop 2 etec enterotoxigenic escherichia coli fuc fucose gal galactose galnacn-acetyl-galactosamine glcnac n-acetyl-glucosamine mub mucus-binding proteins neuacn-acetyl-neuraminic acid saba sialic acid-binding adhesin sus starch utilization systems.fundingthis work was supported by the research federation frabio univ.

210 1286-1295 doi10.1093infdisjiu239xue y. zhang h. wang h. hu j. du m. and zhu m.-j.

zagorec m. ascencio f. vazquez-juarez r. and rojas m. 2009 lactobacillus fermentum bcs87 expresses mucus- and mucin-binding proteins on the cell surface.

u.s.a. 101 16923-16928 doi10.1073pnas.0404817101aspholm-hurtig m. dailide g. lahmann m. kalia a. ilver d. roche n. et al.

2012 almost all human gastric mucin o-glycans harbor blood group a b or h antigens and are potential binding sites for helicobacter pylori.

