however the other effect of inflammation on the pathogen isfigure 2. stages of gut infection by s. typhimuriumin a normal gut cr usually prevents s. typhimurium colonization.however in some hosts s. typhimurium can grow by consuming microbiota-derived molecular hydrogen h2.after reaching a critical density s. typhimurium invasion of the gut tissue triggers inflammation.

here the microbiota has a profound effect on pathogen growth s. typhimurium growth is fueled by molec- ular hydrogen h2 a central intermediate of anaerobic micro- biota metabolism   b. h2 concentrations typically exceed the km of the s. typhimurium hyb-h2-hydrogenase which makes it exploitable by the invading pathogen  partic- ularly when fumarate is present as an electron acceptor  .

the use of the microbial fermentation product 12-propanediol and the electron acceptor tetrathionate  is another strategy used by s. typhimurium to gain an edge d. mucus-derived carbohydrates abundantly expelled into the gut lumen such as fucose and sialic acid can serve as carbon sour- ces for s. typhimurium .

typhimurium can successfully establish and maintain its niche in the gut for prolonged periods of time by using the type vi secretion system t6ss to kill commensal bacteria.the administration of defined competing bacterial strains could be a promising therapeutic option to prevent intestinal colonization by s. typhimurium.protozoans can hinder s. typhimurium growth either by consuming the pathogen or indirectly by inhibiting the colonization through induction of il-18.in yet another approach a healthy and diverse microbiota may be fortified with commensals that target particular pathogens.

in this review we focus on salmonella enterica typhimurium s. typhimurium a frequent cause of acute self- limiting food-borne diarrhea and a model that has revealed key principles of enteropathogen infection.

it will be interesting to discover whether barrier functions microbiota composition or other features may distin- guish susceptible from resistant individuals.as most molecular pathogenesis data come from studies of salmonella enterica subspecies 1 serovar typhimurium s. typhimurium our review will mostly focus on this serovar and in particular strains sl1344 and atcc14028.

typhimurium elimination from the gut lumentwo mechanisms appear to remove s. typhimurium from the in- fected gut lumen.

we review the steps of gut infection and the mucosal innate-immune defenses limiting pathogen burdens and we discuss how inflammation boosts gut luminal s. typhimurium growth.

and at least to some extent for other bacterial entero- pathogens.in the lower gut s. typhimurium faces a dense microbiota.

some micro- biota strains secrete inhibitory compounds such as bacteriocins lantibiotics and colicins that hinder the growth of invading patho- gens  a. included in these are short-chain fatty acids scfas like acetate and butyrate that can inhibit virulence factor expression by s. typhimurium  .

similarly an intact complex mouse micro- biota can successfully outcompete s. typhimurium  .

in germ-free mice 12-15 culturable sequenced strains harboring all major metabolic functions of the normal microbiota are indeed sufficient to restore cr against s. typhimurium  .

after surviving the acidic ph of the stomach and exposure to bile acids and antimicrobial pep- tides and adapting to reduced oxygen levels and anaerobiosis these pathogenic bacteria grow up to densities high enough to elicit disease a. in mouse models of s. typhimurium infection the acidic ph of the stomach eliminates about 95- 99 of the inoculum  and pathogen growth is inefficient in the murine small intestine  .

upon arrival in the large intestine s. typhimurium starts to grow if cr permits.

the factors that dictate this threshold remain obscure and may vary between different hosts.in the streptomycin mouse model where antibiotics diminish the cr barrier s. typhimurium densities exceed 108 colony- forming units cfug and trigger enteropathy within the firstfigure 1. three mechanisms contributing to crthe microbiota produces inhibitory metabolites e.g.

