indeed the cross talk between the nervous system and the gut immune system can shape the mucosal immune response to gut antigens and contribute to gut homeostasis.

mait cells make up 10 of peripheral blood and intestinal lamina propria t cells and express th17 cells markers.

highlight the role played by epithelial cell nod2 expression in maintaining gut homeostasis and regulating ileal microbiota composition and address the consequences of a deficient nod2 variant in gut dysregulation.

it is widely accepted that t cell function par- ticularly the interplay between regulatory and effector t cells is of major importance in the maintenance of gut tolerance to intestinal antigens.

discuss the important role played by a unique human subset of treg cells the il-10- producers cd4cd8aa cells present in the intestinal mucosa.

in a mini-review discuss the dynamic balance between intestinal th17 and treg cells the plasticity allowing interdifferentiation and the participation of the gut microbiome in driving the differentiation toward each phenotype.

mucosal- associated invariant t cells mait cells are a non-conventional t cell subset possibly playing a role in cd .

in an opinion article elegantly discusses arguments in favor of the participation of mait cells in cd pathogenesis and presents two putative mechanisms by which activation of this t cell subset might occur in the gut.in recent years evidence is accumulating in favor of a central role of gut microbiota in cd pathogenesis.

 1231 fp-enascebimed energy environment and health research unit biomedical research centre university fernando pessoa porto portugal 2 instituto de investigacao e inovacao em saude universidade do porto porto portugal 3 instituto de biologia molecular e celular ibmc universidade do porto porto portugalkeywords inflammatory bowel diseases crohn's disease genetic susceptibility t cells intestinal microbiotaeditorial on the research topicedited by marcello chieppa irccs de bellis italyreviewed by marcello chieppa irccs de bellis italy aymeric rivollierthe danish technical universitydenmarkcorrespondence amelia sarmento specialty sectionthis article was submitted tomucosal immunity a section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 28 december 2016accepted 14 march 2017published 31 march 2017citation sarmento a 2017 editorial understanding crohn's disease immunity genes and microbes.

cd and ulcerative colitis uc are the two major forms of inflammatory bowel disease ibd which has long been characterized as an exacerbated inflammatory response to common antigenic stimuli in the gut due to immune dysregulation.

among those contributing factors are genetic inheritance epigenetic mechanisms infection with particular pathobionts and the gut microbiota in general.

contributed with a comprehensive review on the neuromodulationsarmentounderstanding crohn's diseaseof the gut immune system.

these cells are induced by clostridial bacteria to suppress t cell proliferation in a process independent on foxp3 expression since cd4cd8aa subset does not express this transcription factor.

three reviews included in this topic highlight the relevance of gut microbiota composition in health and disease.

discuss the impact of antibiotic treatment and infectious gastroenteritis two external risk factors for cd on gut microbiota composi- tion leading to dysbiosis and consequently to disease onset.

