they showed a reduction in abun- dance of fecal faecalibacterium prausnitzii and an increased abun- dance of e. coli in patients with ibd or psoriasis compared to healthy controls suggesting that a link between the gut microbiome and psoriasis might exist.

this approach provides infor- mation about the composition of microbiota at different mucosal sites and their interaction with the host that could potentially be used to in- form clinical decision making during pregnancy.role of microbiome in inflammatory bowel disease and its extra- intestinal manifestationsa role for the microbiome in the initiation and maintenance of in- testinal disease activity in patients with inflammatory bowel disease ibd is starting to emerge with a decreased microbial diversity and an increased presence of proteobacteria and actinobacteria among the most often found dysbiotic components.

next-generation-sequencing approaches used to characterize the cutaneous microbiome in healthy skin compared to lesional skin from psoriasis patients revealed signifi- cant differences in the composition of the microbiota.

the researchers therefore examined gut and skin microbiome of patients suffering from ibd ibd and concomitant skin disease or skin disease only.

le  ebiomedicine 19 2017 2-33mycobiome dysbiosis in psoriasis patients.

whether or not uv treat- ment for skin diseases has an impact on the patients' gut microbiota is being investigated.cutaneous microbiome in inflammatory skin diseasesthe skin acts as an important interface between the organism and the external environment but also represents an ecosystem providing distinct niches for microbial communities.

however a marked decrease in the total diversity of microbial communities an over-representation of proteobacteria and an under-representation of actinobacteria has been observed in lesional skin from psoriasis patients compared to corresponding non-lesional skin from the same individual.

karin loser muenster germany and colleagues characterized the cu- taneous microbiota in lesional and corresponding non-lesional skin from psoriasis patients before and at different time points after the start of treatment with different biologics including tnf-a blockade il-1223 blockade fumaric acid esters or phosphodiesterase inhibitors.

in focus4th microbiome rd and business collaboration forum and probiotics congress april 3-4 2017 amsterdam the netherlandsduc h. lea r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 10 april 2017accepted 10 april 2017available online 13 april 2017developing an artificial bacterial consortium to modulate micro- biota of frail elderlythe microbial composition of the gut changes gradually with aging and is influenced by habitual diet and health status.

furthermore they showed that impaired host defense mech- anisms in ibd patients can result in an increased presence of adherent invasive escherichia coli species in the gut mucosa.

ibd is associated with several extra-intestinal manifestations including skin diseases such as psoriasis and hidradenitis suppurativa.

the authors went on to demonstrate that oral treatment of psoriasis with dimethylfumarates restores2352-3964c 2017 the authors.

the researchers found that clinical improvement as measured by psori- asis area severity index pasi correlated with alterations in the com- position of the microbiome.

thus successful treatment could help to normalize the microbiota in lesional skin of psoriasis patients.circulating bile acids as biomarkers of metabolic healththe gut microbiota modulates bile acids ba enterohepatic circulation and the profile of these potent cell signaling molecules in the blood.

finally the researchers will link ba profiles with microbiome signatures using high-resolution metagenomics and establish the molecular basis of ba regulation of im- mune and metabolic homeostasis by measuring the relative ba- metabotype receptor activation potential.genetically modified probiotics as biotherapeuticsthere is a strong interest in unraveling the molecular mechanisms involved in industrial robustness cognate stress resistance and health- promoting phenotypes of food bacteria.

