microbiota of patients with pd was characterized by higher levels of christensenella minuta catabacter hongkongensis lactobacillus mucosae ruminococcus bromii and papillibacter cinnamivorans while gut microbiota from the control subjects contained more bacteroides massiliensis stoquefichus massiliensis bacteroides coprocola blautia glucerasea dorea longicatena bacteroides dorei bacteroides plebeus prevotella copri coprococcus eutactus and rumino coccuscallidus.twin studies showed that christensenellaceae bacteria and methanobacteriaceae archaea are highly heritable prokaryotic taxa 6. carriage of these mi- croorganisms is associated with increased abundance of bacteria of the oscillospira genera which were also present in gut microbiota of pd patients 6. at the same time carriage of these microorganismsis associated with low body mass index in humans and weight loss in gnotobiotic mice infected with these prokaryotes 6. it is known pd is associated with reduced body weight body weight loss in pd is associated with impaired quality of life and more severe stage of the disease in accordance to hoehn and yahr scale 1.an increase in lactobacillus content in the mi- crobiota of patients with pd is also typical for finnish population.

little is known about its etiology result from the influence of envi- ronmental factors on a human with genetic predisposi- tion for the disease 13. recent studies demonstrated changes in gut microbiota in patients with pd which can serve as both biomarker of pd or its possible trig- ger inducing misfolding of a-synuclein a component of lewy bodies that launch neurodegeneration in pd 813.our aim was the search of pf-specific peculiari- ties of gut microbiota.materials and methodsmicrobiota of 89 patients with confirmed diagnosis of pd main group and 66 patients without severe somatic pathology and manifestations of parkinso- nism control group was studied using the identi- cal protocol of sequencing and data analysis 4. the0007-48881616260734c2017springersciencebusinessmedianewyorkv.

1 showed that the level of alpha- diversity calculated using chao1 index was higher in the control group which reflects reduction of gut mi- crobiota diversity during pd 627.567-102.988 and 699.481-112.524 respectively t4.105 p0.001.it is known that reduced gut microbiota diversity is associated with the development of inflammatory pro- cesses in the intestine 9. reduction in taxonomic diversity of gut microbiota in patients with pd can be a result of latent inflammatory process in the intestine which is considered by several investigators as a trig- ger factor for a-synuclein misfolding in gut neurons 813.we analyzed taxonomic composition of metage- nomics populations of samples of gut microbiota from patients with pd comparing to the control group using analysis of main coordinates on the weighted unifrac metrics fig.

significant differences in bacterial composition p0.0001 r0.214 were revealed after comparison of microbiota samples from patients with pd and healthy controls which agrees with previous reported data in finnish population 13. comparison of data of analysis of taxonomic composition of gut microbiota from patients with pd and control group showed statistically significant dif- ferences in the content of some microbial genera and species in these groups fig.

multiple comparisons adjustment of the p values was performed using the benjamini--hoch- berg fdr-controlling procedure.resultsevaluation of taxonomic pattern of gut microbiota in pd patients fig.

3. at genus level gut microbiota of pd patients contained high levels of christensenella catabacter lactobacillus oscillo- spira and bifidobacterium.

2. pcoa plot of the taxonomic composition of gut microbiota in pd patients and control subjects.736bulletin of experimental biology and medicine vol.

3. differences in the content of bacterial taxa in pd patients and control subjects at the level of genera a and species b. p level is corrected for multiple comparison.prevotella and faecalibacterium.differences were also observed at the species le- vel.

v. a. petrovparkinson's disease pd is one of the most com- mon neurodegenerative disorders.

it is shown that these bacteria can affect the secretion of a-synuclein via interactions with gut neurons 14.thus we showed that gut microbiota in pd pa- tients is characterized by a decrease in taxonomic di- versity and significant differences in representation of 9 geneta and 15 species of microorganisms.

201530101351- 1360.lapthorne s pereira-fantini pm fouhy f wilson g thomas sl dellios nl scurr m o'sullivan o ross rp stanton c fitzgerald gf cotter pd bines je.

6 april 2017 biophysics and biochemistryanalysis of gut microbiota in patients with parkinson's diseasev.

700-703 december 2016 original article submitted april 16 2016gut microbiota of patients with parkinson's disease and healthy volunteers was analyzed by the method of high throughput 16s rrna sequencing of bacterial genomes.

in patients with parkinson's diseases changes in the content of 9 genera and 15 species of microorganisms were revealed reduced content of dorea bacteroides prevotella faecalibacterium bac- teroides massiliensis stoquefichus massiliensis bacteroides coprocola blautia glucerasea dorea longicatena bacteroides dorei bacteroides plebeus prevotella copri coprococcus eutactus and ruminococcus callidus and increased content of christensenella catabacter lactobacillus oscillospira bifidobacterium christensenella minuta catabacter hongkon- gensis lactobacillus mucosae ruminococcus bromii and papillibacter cinnamivorans.

20158299-113.egshatyan l kashtanova d popenko a tkacheva o tyakht a alexeev d karamnova n kostryukova e babenko v vakhi- tova m boytsov s. gut microbiota and diet in patients with different glucose tolerance.

