in addition therapies aiming to restore eubiosis in ibd may also be dependent on intestinal inflammation and pathophysiology-related fluctuations of the microbiota composition.pathophysiology of ibsthe diagnosis of ibs is based on a combination of symptoms ac- cording to the rome iv criteria with subgrouping of patients cor- responding to their predominant bowel habit into ibs with diarrhea ibs with constipation or mixed ibs with both loose and hard stools 3. still no uniform pathophysiological pattern for ibs has been identified which most likely reflects that ibs is a multifactorial disorder including abnormalities in brain-gutinteractions 87 visceral hypersensitivity 8889 gut motility and secretion 9091 psychosocial factors 9293 gut microbi- ota composition 11141594 gut permeability 95 and low- grade immune activity 96-101. even if these abnormalities have been demonstrated in ibs as a group for most factors there is a considerable overlap between ibs and healthy individuals and it may be hypothesized that ibs consists of several subgroups with varying underlying mechanisms linked to development of ibs symptoms.in conclusion even though the role of and the interplay be- tween all the potential factors involved in ibs pathophysiology are unknown there is growing evidence that the pathophysiology of ibs at least to a degree include organic changes such as an al- tered microbiota composition.characterization of the gut microbiota in ibsalbeit no uniform microbiota signature for ibs has yet been es- tablished a large number of studies have identified similar mi- crobial alterations.

a more detailed summary of microbiota alterations in ibs can be found in another recent review 98.in conclusion although a fairly consistent pattern regarding gut microbiota of ibs has been described comprising reduced bacte- rial diversity and increased firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio there are wide variations within the ibs population which may partly be explained by findings of variations in the microbiota composi- tion over time but also related to the heterogeneous pathophysiol- ogy of ibs.gut microbiota and the pathophysiology in ibs apart for characterizing the gut microbiota composition of ibs pa- tients there is also a need to understand the link between microbi- ota and pathophysiology of the disorder.although individuals who develop ibs after a bout of gastro- enteritis postinfection ibs only comprise a subset of ibs indi- viduals the sevenfold increased risk for developing ibs after a previous gi infection 114 strengthens the hypothesis that aberra- tions in the microbe-host immune interactions is of relevance in ibs pathophysiology 96. potentially an altered microbiota com- position is associated with distorted microbe recognition in ibs which may lead to an altered ability to eradicate microbial in- truders.

for in- stance the abundance of bifidobacteria has been shown to be higher in the mucosa-associated microbiota of patients with ibs with constipation compared with ibs with diarrhea 43. most pa- tients with postinfection ibs have diarrhea predominance and their fecal and mucosal microbiota composition were in one study demonstrated to resemble that of ibs with patients with diarrhea 16 whereas another study found differences in fecal and mucosal microbiota composition between ibs patients with and without onset after an gi infection 15. even though differences in gut mi- crobiota composition between ibs patients and control individuals have been demonstrated in numerous studies many ibs patients show an overlap in microbial signatures with healthy individuals 14-16. this could reflect the multifactorial etiology and pathophys- iology of ibs.

gastroenterology 20031241767-73.jostins l ripke s weersma rk duerr rh mcgovern dp hui ky lee jc schumm lp sharma y anderson ca essers j mitrovic m ning k cleynen i theatre e spain sl raychaudhuri s goyette p wei z abraham c achkar jp ahmad t amininejad l ananthakrishnan an andersen v andrews jm baidoo l balschun t bampton pa bitton a boucher g brand s buning c cohain a cichon s d'amato m de jong d devaney kl dubinsky m edwards c ellinghaus d ferguson lr franchimont d fransen k gearry r georges m gieger c glas j haritunians t hart a hawkey c hedl m hu x karlsen th kupcinskas l kugathasan s latiano a laukens d lawrance ic lees cw louis e mahy g mansfield j morgan ar mowat c newman w palmieri o ponsioen cy potocnik u prescott nj regueiro m rotter ji russell rk sanderson jd sans m satsangi j schreiber s simms la sventoraityte j targan sr taylor kd tremelling m verspaget hw de vos m wijmenga c wilson dc winkelmann j xavier rj zeissig s zhang b zhang ck zhao h international ibd genetics consortium iibdgc silverberg ms annese v hakonarson h brant sr radford-smith g mathew cg rioux jd schadt ee daly mj franke a parkes m vermeire s barrett jc cho jh.

it is therefore interesting to note that ibs patients have been demonstrated to have altered mucosal expression of toll- like receptors 115116 and increased serum levels of antibodies against the bacterial component flagellin 117. moreover the gut microbiota in ibd and ibs gut microbiota may influence other factors suggested to be a part of the ibs pathophysiology for example intestinal permeability 118 brain function 119 the enteric nervous system 120 as well as gut motility 121 and visceral pain 87. moreover the lu- minal microbiota may generate key symptoms in patients with ibs such as bloating and flatulence through carbohydrate fermen- tation and gas production 122.little is known about the association between the different symptom and the microbiota composition but there are some stud- ies that demonstrate an association between microbiota alterations and ibs subtypes based on the predominant bowel habit.

scand j gastroenterol 2014491068-75.rajilic-stojanovic m jonkers dm salonen a hanevik k raes j jalanka j de vos wm manichanh c golic n enck p philippou e iraqi fa clarke g spiller rc penders j. intestinal microbiota and diet in ibs causes conse- quences or epiphenomena am j gastroenterol 2015110278-87.rajilic-stojanovic m biagi e heilig hg kajander k kekkonen ra tims s de vos wm.

onset of symptoms is most common in young adults and ibs has a global prevalence of approximately 11 2. because the pathophysiology of ibs isincompletely understood and routine investigations are normal the diagnosis of ibs is based on a combination of abdominal pain and altered bowel habits according to the rome iv criteria 3.many gi conditions are thought to be linked to the gut micro- biota which affects gut physiology nutrient absorption and the training of the immune system of the host 4. the term eubiosis has been coined to describe the microbiota composition in a healthy state 5 characterized by high bacterial diversity and sta- bility figure 1 6. deviations from this eubiosis state result in a temporary or permanent microbiotic shift in composition known as dysbiosis which is often associated with a reduced bacterial diversity and stability 7 figure 1. during recent years dysbiosis in the luminal and mucosa-associated microbiota has been linked to both ibd 8-13 and ibs 14-16. however even though gut microbiota alterations have been demonstrated in these conditions the relevance of the detected microbial dysbiosis in ibd and ibsfrom the departments of internal medicine and clinical nutrition institute of medicine sundin ohman simren and microbiology and immunology sundin ohman sahlgrenska academy at university of gothenburg sweden school of health and education ohman university of skovde sweden and center for functional gi and motility disorders simren university of north carolina chapel hill north carolina.address correspondence and reprint requests to magnus simren md phd department of internal medicine and clinical nutrition institute of med- icine sahlgrenska academy at university of gothenburg 40530 gothenburg sweden.

trends ecol evol 200621517-23.zhao w wang y liu s huang j zhai z he c ding j wang j wang h fan w zhao j meng h. the dynamic distribution of porcine microbiota across dif- ferent ages and gastrointestinal tract segments.

scand j gastroenterol 2015501076-87.matto j maunuksela l kajander k palva a korpela r kassinen a saarelacomposition and temporal stability of gastrointestinal microbiota in irrita- ble bowel syndrome--a longitudinal study in ibs and control subjects.

hopefully such future well-designed large-scale studies will enable the research community to answer whether an altered gut microbiota is the cause to or a consequence of ibs symptoms or other ibs-related factors and if so how themicrobiota influence the complex ibs pathophysiology.small bowel bacteria and relevance for ibd and ibs the small intestine is relatively inaccessible for gut microbiota analyses which has resulted in relatively few studies analyzing the luminal and mucosa-associated microbiota of this part of the gi tract.

for example an increased ratio of firmicutes bacteroidetes at the phylum level has been demonstrated in fecal samples in several studies 14102-104. other reported microbial alterations for ibs are increased relative abundance of fecal ruminococcus torques-like phylotype 103105 and reduced fecal lactobacilli 106-108. reduced bacterial diversity has been demonstrated in both luminal and mucosal samples of ibs patients 1567109-111. consequently several studies have revealed reduced bacterial richness in both the lumen and mucosa of ibs patients compared with healthy individuals 11141594. furthermore fluctuations in the fecal microbiota composition over time have been shown in at least subgroups of ibs patients 112113 suggesting that the time point of sampling could be of importance for the results obtained.

in addition among ibs patients a substantial proportion of individuals with sibo indirectly diagnosed with breath tests have been reported 69130134-138. however results are conflicting and several studies have failed to confirm that abnormal breath tests indicating sibo is more common in ibs patients than in controls 139-142. despite that mildly increased small intestinal bacterial counts 142-144 and increased abundance of aerobe bacteria in jejunal and duodenal aspirate 144 have been reported in ibs culture-based studies on upper small intestinal aspirates provides no clear evidence for sibo according to standard definitions 126142. furthermore studies evaluating the small intestinal microbiota using 16s rrna-based techniques have shown conflicting results in ibs.

therefore future bacterial culture and 16s rrna-based studies evaluating the microbial composition in the different compartments of the small intestine of ibd and ibs also including other pathophysiological factors such as immune and barrier function are needed.diet fermentation and gi symptoms diet has a strong impact on the gi microbiota and through differ- ent mechanisms diet may be involved in the pathogenesis of ibd and ibs 102146-148. diet is frequently reported to provoke gi symptoms and 64 to 89 of ibs patients report their symptoms to be triggered by food intake of for example wheatgrains vegetables milk products fat spicy food coffee or alcohol 149. these gi symptoms may partly be caused by altered fermentation by intestinal bacteria of dietary substrates such as fermentable oligosaccharides disaccharides monosaccharides and polyolsfigure 2. hydrogen breath tests are currently used to diagnose intestinal bacterial overgrowth sibo in ibs.

curr opin gastroenterol 20132949-5.gevers d kugathasan s denson la vazquez-baeza y van treuren w ren b schwager e knights d song sj yassour m morgan xc kostic ad luo c gonzalez a mcdonald d haberman y walters t baker s rosh j stephens m heyman m markowitz j baldassano r griffiths a sylvester f mack d kim s crandall w hyams j huttenhower c knight r xavier rj.

am j gastroenterol 20081031557-67.tillisch k labus j kilpatrick l jiang z stains j ebrat b guyonnet d legrain-raspaud s trotin b naliboff b mayer ea.

