We hypothesize that chronic pistachio consump- tion could modulate urinary metabolites toward a healthier profile.Therefore the aim of this study is to assess the effects of a pistachio-rich diet on different urine metabolites mainly those related with gut microbiota.Material and methodsStudy characteristicsThe EPIRDEM Effect of Pistachio Intake on Insulin Resistance and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus study is a randomized controlled crossover trial with two 4-month dietary intervention arms separated by 2-week washout period that was conducted in prediabetic subjects.

Moreover in the absence of fecal samples an alternative for determining the nutritional modulation of the gut microbiota is by evaluating the different metabolites generated or catabolized by them in fluids such as urine because gut microbiota composition and different urine or plasma metabolite signatures are highly correlated .We have previously demonstrated that pistachio consumptionmodulates insulin resistance IR status and CVD markers at systemic cellular and molecular levels .However there are no previous studies evaluating changes in urinary metabolome after chronic pistachio consumption that could help to further understand molecular consequences of their health benefit properties.

During the pistachio diet PD intervention participants were supplemented with 2 oz of pistachio 57 gday half roasted and half roasted and salted.Adherence to the intervention period was assessed by counting the empty sachets of pistachio administered and measuring plasma lutein-zeaxanthin and g-tocopherol levels with a high-performance liquid chromatograph HPLC coupled to a 6490 triple quadrupole mass spectrometer QqQMS Agilent Technologies Palo Alto U.S.A. as previously described .1H-NMR-based targeted metabolomic profilingTwenty-four-hour urine collection and storageTwenty-four hour pooled urine samples were collected both at baseline and at the end of each dietary intervention period.

Alcohol tobacco or drug abuse frequent consumption of nuts or known history of allergy to them being pregnant or wishing to become pregnant 9 months before or during the study and lactating 6 weeks before or during the study andor significant liver kidney thyroid or other endocrine diseases were excluding criteria.Study designAt baseline data on medical history physical examination and fasting blood for biochemical analysis were collected.

However to date no study has evaluated the effect of nut consumption on changes in gut-derived metabolites.

In our study we found decreased urinary levels of cis-aconitate after pistachio consumption.

Significant changes in urine metabolites according to the different intervention periods were found in uni- and multivariate analysis.

Moreover we also computed paired t tests through each intervention baseline vs. end even though we did not found significant results in changes between interventions.

Even though pistachios are rich in choline we observed a reduction in DMA and TMAO after its consumption that can be explained by a differential gut microbiota modulation.Together with the modulation of some known metabolites we found a significant modulation of U9.365 and U2.79.

The baseline characteristics of the study participants areTable 2Changes in 24-h urinary metabolites according to intervention periodMetabolited multiplicityPD vs. CDP valueMetabolic pathwaysCis-aconitate5.72 s0.040TCA cycle3.13 dGut Dimethylamine2.72 s0.044microbiota-derivedmetabolismHippurate7.84 dd0.012Gutshown in .

