as the authors mention we have already provided an in depth discussion of most of their issues and others in our 2013 book the human microbiome ethical legal and social concerns rhodes gligorov and schwab 2013. there we provide the scientific context for understanding the biology and also descriptions of the sci- entific tools that are employed in studying the human microbiome.

the other matter that we address is the authors' adoption of a rather standard and problematic approach to vulnerability.uncertaintythe national institutes of health nih launched the human microbiome project hmp in 2007. the scientific work sup- ported by hmp quickly and significantly advanced our knowledge of the human microbiome.

we know that there are significant differences in microbiotic populations on various sites inside and outside of human bodies and that those populations like fingerprints may be unique to individuals.there is still a vast amount that we do not know about the human microbiome.

we have yet to learn whether humans share one core gut human microbiome whether there are many variations on a core gut microbiome or whether there is so much variety that it is hard to general- ize.

2013. the human microbiome ethical legal and social concerns.

we provide the legal and philosophical background for under- standing the property issues that arise in interesting ways for human microbiome innovations.

one is the infancy of research on the human microbiome and how much still remains to be learned.

we also need to discover how changes in the human microbiome correlate with health or disease.

however the most important thing that bioethicists can do is to lay the ethical groundwork for the future of fmt and other emerging forms of bacteriotherapy guided primarily by the four pillars of biomedical ethics justice beneficence nonmaleficence and respect for autonomy beauchamp and childress 2013.inquiry into the ethical legal and social implications of new therapies tends to yield a catalogue of conceivable harms.

the american journal of bioethicsissn 1526-5161 print 1536-0075 online journal homepage cautions for extending fecal microbiota transplantation to other therapeutic usesrosamond rhodes  henry sacksto cite this article rosamond rhodes  henry sacks 2017 cautions for extending fecal microbiota transplantation to other therapeutic uses the american journal of bioethics 175 46-48 doi 10.108015265161.2017.1299251to link to this article published online 21 apr 2017.article views 80view crossmark datafull terms  conditions of access and use can be found at the american journal of bioethics 175 46-63 2017 copyright c taylor  francis group llcissn 1526-5161 print  1536-0075 online doi 10.108015265161.2017.1299251cautions for extending fecal microbiota transplantation to other therapeutic usesrosamond rhodes icahn school of medicine at mount sinaihenry sacks icahn school of medicine at mount sinaiin their article ethical issues in fecal microbiota transplan- tation in practice ma and colleagues 2017 raise a number of questions related to the development of fecal microbiota transplants fmt as a treatment for patients with recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

we are still learning how much the microbiome changes over the course of a lifetime and how diet or envi- ronment affects the microbial population.

we need to learn more about the role of the microbiome in digestion growth development aging reproduction thinking mood and behavior.

there is no obvious reason to treat research participation decisions differently from other choices or to ignore the ethical importance of liberty and respect.instead of hastening to protect groups of people who are living with serious disease perhaps it is better to imag- ine how you would want to be treated.

to avoid imposing disrespectful paternalistic protections on people who are capable of mak- ing their own choices the cioms recently revised its interna- tional ethical guidelines for health-related research involving humans so that they no longer label entire classes of individuals as vulnerable council for international organ- izations of medical sciences 2016. the new guidelines also recognize that context and risk related factors are relevant considerations in deciding when and how groups should be protected council for international organizations of medical1.

we are aware that this position opposes the widely accepted view espoused by hans jonas 1969 in his well-known paper philosophical reflections on experimenting with human sub- jects.

