research lettergut microbe-generated trimethylamine n-oxide from dietary choline is prothrombotic in subjectse previously showed gut microbial production of trimethylamine n-oxide tmao from dietary nutrients like choline lecithin and l-carnitine is linked to the development of cardiovascular diseases.1-3 we also recently reportedthat plasma tmao levels are associated with incident thrombotic event risk in sub- jects and that tmao both enhances platelet responsiveness to multiple agonists by augmenting stimulus-dependent ca2 signaling and heightens thrombosis potential in animal models.4 specifically a role for tmao and gut microbiota in transmitting heightened thrombosis potential in vivo was supported by both direct tmao infusion and microbial transplantation studies.4 a western diet rich in choline is associated with heightened thrombosis risk however the effect of dietary choline on tmao and platelet hyperresponsiveness in human subjects has not yet been reported.we prospectively recruited healthy vegansvegetarians n8 and omnivores n10 with no preceding 1-month history of antibiotics or probiotics.

both veganvegetarian and omnivore alike showed significant 10-fold increases in plasma tmao levels at both 1- and 2-month periods p0.01 each figure a with corresponding enhanced platelet aggregation responses to submaximal adenosine diphosphate 5um after choline supplementation figure a. moreover a striking dose-dependent associa- tion was observed between plasma tmao levels and platelet function figure b. similarly among all subjects in the study a significant association was noted be- tween change from baseline in tmao level and change from baseline in platelet aggregation spearman rho0.38 p0.03.we next tested whether platelet hyperresponsiveness associated with choline sup- plementation and elevated tmao was observed in the presence of aspirin.

compared with baseline choline again increased both fasting plasma tmao levels and adenosine diphosphate-dependent platelet aggregation responses at 1 and 2 months of supplementation however both the degree of tmao elevation and platelet hyperresponsiveness were attenuated by aspirin therapy figure c.these studies show for the first time a direct prothrombotic effect of dietary cho- line and elevated levels of the gut microbial metabolite tmao in humans.

oral choline supplementation increases fasting trimethylamine n-oxide tmao levels enhances platelet aggregation and attenuates the antiplatelet effect observed with aspirin.a plasma tmao levels and platelet aggregation in response to submaximal adenosine diphosphate 5um in veganvegetarian and omnivore groups.

after informed consent subjects 46-5 years of age 40 male nonsmokers without hypertension diabetes mellitus or cardiovascular disease were given oral choline supplementation choline bitartrate 500 mg twice daily 450 mg total cholineday for 2 months with monthly blood testing after overnight fast.

omnivores previously examined in the absence of aspirin had a choline supplement-free washout period of at least 1 month and then were started on aspirin 81 mg each evening for 1 month before a baseline evaluation followed by 2 months of choline supplementa- tion.

c effect of choline supplementation on tmao and platelet aggregation responses in omnivores in the absence versus presence of aspirin asa.

an unanticipated finding was that low-dose aspirin partially reduced choline supplement-dependent rise in tmao.

doi 10.1016j.cmi.2015.10.003.gut microbe-generated trimethylamine n-oxide from dietary choline is prothrombotic in subjectsweifei zhu zeneng wang w. h. wilson tang and stanley l. hazencirculation.

they also suggest the platelet hyperresponsiveness mediated by elevated tmao can be at- tenuated by a low dose of aspirin.

b correlation between plasma tmao and platelet aggregation responses among the indicated groups.

gut mi- crobial metabolite tmao enhances platelet hyperreactivity and thrombosis risk.

