following treatment with berberine for 6 weeks lps plasma levels in hfd-fed rats were significantly reduced when compared with the untreated hfd-fed rats however lps levels in berberine-treated rats remained higher than in control rats.

in addition previous studies have revealed that berberine can increase the number of intestinal l-cells and thereby increase plasma glp-1 levels in normal and diabetic rats 91023. furthermore berberine has been demonstrated to promote ileal glp-2 secretion and thus decrease lps plasma levels in diabetic rats 24. since glp-2 is known to regulate the proliferation of intestinal epithelial cells and thus the integ- rity of the gut barrier berberine may also promote intestinal integrity through modulating glp-2 levels.

rats maintained on a hfd for 14 weeks exhibited a significant increase in body weight compared with the control rats 636.26-44.83 vs. 591.34-30.65 g p0.01 fig.

treatment with berberine for 6 weeks significantly reversed the body weight increase of hfd-fed rats compared with untreated hfd-fed rats 658.58-54.04 vs. 715.59-46.70 g p0.05 fig.

lps levels in portal plasma were significantly higher in hfd-fed rats compared with control rats fig.

ctl normal diet hf hfd hb hfd supplemented with berberine for 6 weeks hfd high-fat diet zo-1 zonula occludens-1.in hfd-fed rats compared with in control rats fig.

in accordance with the changes in plasma lps levels a marked increase in plasmafitc-dextran area under the curve was observed in hfd-fed rats compared with in the control rats fig.

treatment with berberine significantly reduced plasma fitc-dextran concentration in the hfd-fed rats compared with in untreated rats fig.

claudin-1 claudin-2 zo-1 and occludin mrna expression levels in the proximal colon segments from hfd-fed rats were significantly decreased as compared with rats in the control group.

ctl normal diet hf hfd hb hfd supplemented with berberine for 6 weeks hfd high-fat diet pcoa principal coordinates analysis pca principal components analysis rda redundancy analysis mcpp monte carlo permutation tests.by v.6 image-pro plus software for claudin-1 protein appeared significantly higher in berberine-treated rats compared with in untreated hfd-fed rats fig.

in addition berberine-treated rats exhibited a 3-fold increase in proglucagon mrna expres- sion levels and in the number of glp-1-positive l-cells inthe proximal colon compared with hfd-fed untreated rats fig.

these results suggested that berberine can shift the composition of the gut microbiome of hfd-fed rats towards that of control rats.

the present findings indicated that berberine through modulating gut microbiota restored the gut barrier reduced metabolic endotoxemia and systemic inflammation and improved gut peptide levels in high-fat diet-fed rats.

previous clinical research and animal studies have demonstrated that berberine can regulate glucose and lipid metabolism and attenuate insulin resistance 1-3. several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the actions of berberine in in vitro and in vivo models these include the activation of amp-activated protein kinase to downregulate the expression of lipogenesis genes and upregulate the expres- sion of energy expenditure genes 4 the inhibition of intestinal disaccharidases and a-glucosidase 56 the upregulation of the hepatic low-density lipoprotein receptor 7 the inhibition of intestinal cholesterol absorption 8 and increased intes- tinal glucagon-like peptide-1 glp-1 secretion 910. since berberine has been reported to have poor intestinal absorption and very low absolute bioavailability with values ranging between 0.36 and 0.68 in rats it may be hypothesized that berberine exerts its effects in the intestinal tract prior to its absorption 1112.accumulating evidence suggests that the gut microbiome serves an important role in obesity and related metabolicabnormalities.

zhang et al 14 previouslyreported that berberine may prevent obesity and insulin resis- tance in high-fat diet hfd-fed rats by modulating the gut microbiota thus contributing to the alleviaton of inflammation via a reduction in serum lps-binding protein and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 mcp-1.

