at the family level anaeroplasmataceae was significantly higher and lactobacillaceae was significantly lower in the wd-nc pg group compared to the wd-nc group e. at the genus level anaeroplasma was significantly higher in the wd-nc pg group compared to the wd-nc group while several genera from phylum firmicutes were significantly higher in the wd-nc group compared to the wd-nc th pg group e.fecal sampleslinear discriminant analysis effect size lefse was applied to the microbiota data from the three groups that were fed a normal chow diet during the final 11 weeks nc wd-nc wd-nc th pg and identified 6 differentially abundant taxa a 0.05 with an lda score higher than 2.0 respectively supplementary fig.

at the family level s24-7 was most abundant in the wd-nc pg group lactobacillaceae was most abundant in the wd-nc group and anaeroplasmataceae was most abundant in the nc group a. several genera from phylum firmicutes were also significantly different between these three treatment groups and were most abundant in the wd-nc group a.lefse was applied to the microbiota data from the three groups that were fed a western diet during the first 11 weeks wd wd- nc wd-nc th pg and identified 25 differentially abundant taxa a 0.05 with an lda score higher than 2.0 respectively b. at the phylum level tenericutes was most abundant in the wd- nc pg group and firmicutes was most abundant in the wd-nc group b. at the family level anaeroplasmataceae was most abundant in the wd-nc pg group lactobacillaceae was most abundant in the wd-nc group and ruminococcaceae enterobac- teriaceae mogibacteriaceae and clostridiaceae were most abun- dant in the wd group b.to assess the impact of diet on the gut microbiota of apoe-- mice lefse was applied to the microbiota data from the nc and wd groups.

this analysis identified 20 differentially abundant taxa a 0.05 with an lda score higher than 2.0 d. at the phylum level bacteroidetes was significantly higher and firmicutes was signifi- cantly lower in the wd group compared to the wd-nc group d. at the family level peptostreptococcaceae clostridiaceae streptococcaceae ruminococcaceae and s24-7 were significantly higher and lactobacillaceae was significantly lower in the wd group compared to the wd-nc group d.to assess the impact of p. gingivalis on the gut microbiota of apoe-- mice that had been switched to a normal chow diet after being fed a western diet for 11 weeks lefse was applied to the microbiota data from the wd-nc and wd-nc th pg groups and identified 10 differentially abundant taxa a 0.05 with an lda score higher than 2.0 respectively e. there were no differ- entially abundant phyla.

dietary intervention wd-nc partially resolved western diet-induced dysbiosis importantly we demonstrated that p. gingivalis oral infection blunts this resolution wd-nc vs. wd-nc th pg.relative abundance of bacterial taxa in fecal and cecal samplesin cecal samples the relative abundance of phylum tenericutes ranged from 0.1 to 3.2 with an average of 1.4 in the nc group in all other groups the relative abundance of phylum tenericutes was1 for all mice d. the relative abundance of phylum acti- nobacteria phylum cyanobacteria and phylum proteobacteria in the cecal contents was 1 for all mice in all treatment groups data not shown.

super- imposing the plaque index category onto the treatment-based pca plot revealed that plaque index correlated strongly with treatment c. this is consistent with the correlation observed between plaque index and relative abundance of phylum bacteroidetes b. as expected all wd samples fell into the two highest categories of plaque index while all nc samples fell within the two lowest categories c. with one exception all wd-nc samples also fell within the two lowest plaque index categories c. all four plaque index categories were represented in the wd-nc pg group however one subcluster consisted only of the two highest categories similar to the wd group c. the wd-nc th pgplaque index categories were consistent with the observed clus- tering described by the cage effect.

all experimental procedures involving pathogenic bacteria were carried out with approval from the boston university institutional biosafety committee.mouse randomization and treatment groupsmale apoe-- mice on c57bl6 background jackson labora- tory of 8 weeks of age were randomly assigned into one of the following four groups normal chow nc for 22 weeks teklad global 2018 18 kcal from fat envigo madison wi n 6 western diet wd for 22 weeks td.88137 42 kcal from fat with 0.2 cholesterol envigo madison wi n 6 western diet for 11 weeks followed by normal chow for 11 weeks wd-nc n 7 or western diet for 11 weeks followed by normal chow for 11 weeks and p. gingivalis oral infection at weeks 12e14 wd-nc pg n 15 following the infection protocol previously published by our group that results in the acceleration of atherosclerosis in apoe-- mice .

mice that were infected with p. gingivalis and switched to a normal chow diet following 11 weeks on a western diet wd-nc pg had a significantly higher plaque index than non-infected mice that were also switched to a normal chow diet following 11 weeks on a western diet wd-nc.

the cecal samples from the wd group had approximately 2.5 times higher relative abundance of phylum bacteroidetes compared to cecal samples from the nc group 23.1 vs. 9.3 range 16.2e39.9 vs. 5.4e11.5 respectively a. the relative abundance of phylum bacteroidetes in cecal samples from the wd-nc group ranged from9.6 to 18.6 with an average of 13.1 compared to a range of 4.8e28.0 with an average of 16.9 in the wd-nc pg group a. these differences in relative abundance of bacteroidetes were confined to a single taxon family s24-7.

nc 14 normal chow for 22 weeks n 14 6 wd14western diet for 22 weeks n 14 6 wd-nc14western diet for 11 weeks followed by normal chow for 11 weeks n 14 7 wd-nc th pg 14 western diet for 11 weeks followed by normal chow for 11 weeks and p. gingivalis oral infection at midpoint n 14 15. data were analyzed by one-way anova p  0.0001 using bonferroni post test p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001 p  0.0001.range of 71.9e95.2 with an average of 83.0 in the wd-nc pg group c. the majority of these differences in relative abun- dance were confined to class clostridia but we also observed dif- ferences in class bacilli supplementary fig.

the relative abun- dance of family ruminococcaceae ranged from 3.5 to 15.7 with an average of 9.6 in the nc group from 15.6 to 28.6 with an average of 20.3 in the wd group from 8.1 to 13.1 with an average of 11.6 in the wd-nc group and from 6.9 to 12.0 with an average of 9.8 in the wd-nc pg group supplementary fig.

as expected alpha diversity as determined by chao1 species richness and confirmed by the number of observed spe- cies and phylogenetic diversity was significantly decreased in the wd group  a p  0.0001. alpha diversity as described by phylogenetic diversity was also significantly decreased in the wd-nc pg group vs. the nc group data not shown p  0.05. alpha diversity as described by shannon index richness and evenness was significantly increased in the wd-nc group  b p  0.0001. beta diversity was measured using unweighted and weighted unifrac which consider presence or absence of otus and otu abundance respectively.

unweighted unifrac revealed distinct clusters for the wd group vs. the nc group a third cluster was comprised wd-nc and wd-nc pg groups supplementary fig.

cluster 1 grey consisted of 2 otus 260679 and 287507 both of the phylum firmicutes that were highly abundant in the wd-nc and wd-nc pg groups e .

cluster 3a 11 otus family s24-7 phylum bacteriodetes order clostridiales and cluster 3c 13 otus order clostridiales represented otus of increased abundance in the nc and wd-nc groups while 3b 7 otus order clostridiales was of high abundance in the wd-nc group but low in the nc group e .

the three groups that were fed a normal chow diet for the final 11 weeks shared similar profiles based on cluster 3 but the wd-nc pg group had a higher abundance of these otus compared to the nc and wd-nc groups.

