thesedataaltogethersuggest that both lps and gut-associated commensal bacteria can induce the cell surface expression of t cell co-stimulatory and inhibitory molecules on the modc cell surface in a strain-dependent man- ner while atra-activated modcs exhibit impaired cell surface expression of mhc class ii co-stimulatory and inhibitory cell surface proteins.limited commensal-induced effector responses mediated by rarahiirf4lo modcs are associated with augmented inflammation that can be rescued by the selective inhibition of rarain a next step we addressed the question how t-lymphocytestimulation and maturation may modulate modc responses in the presence of atra or commensal bacteria.

in contrast to this event the cx3cr1 chemokine receptor remains expressed on the cell surface of intestinal mononuclear phagocytes and acts directly as an inflammatory and migratory cell population with high phagocytic capacity - while mucosal cd103 dcs have been described as a dominant migratory population involved in triggering regulatory t cell responses raised against commensal bacteria via producing ra .based on this concept in vitro conditions were designed to analyze the canonical pathways leading to the atra-modulated expression of the contributing master transcription factorsincluding retinoid receptors pparg and interferon regulatory factor 4 irf4 playing role in modc differentiation in line with the impact of different individual commensal bacteria exertedon modc-mediated inflammation and effector t-lymphocyte priming.

these results altogether demonstrate that selected commensal bac- terial strains are able to drive strong effector immune responses by modcs while in the presence of atra they support the development of both tolerogenic and inflammatory modc in a rara-dependent manner.keywords monocyte-derived dentritic cell gut microbiota all-trans retinoic acid retinoic acid receptor alpha interferon regulatory factor 4 t cell cd1a cd1dintroductionthe development and the metabolic activity of the human immune system critically depend on the amount and the diversity of the human microbiota acquired from the actual tissue microenvironment  .

naive cd4 t-lymphocytes were isolated by the naive cd4 t cell isolation kit ii human miltenyi biotec.stimulation of modcs to measure inkt cell expansiontwo-day modcs were co-incubated with live bacteria lps or 100 ngml a-galactosylceramide a-galcer krn7000 funakoshi tokyo japan for 24 h in aim-v medium.

in the absence of atra the cd1d gene was expressed in modcs at low levels but the cd1d gene transcripts and the cell surface expression of the translated protein was upregulated while in atra-conditioned modcs the cell surface expression of cd1a decreased .

murine models suggested that cd11b bone marrow-derived dcs cultured in the presence of gm-csf and il-4 express irf4 and regulate the cell surface expression of the major histocompatibility gene complex ii mhc class ii while irf4 increases the antigen-presenting capacity of modcs resulting in potent t helper cell priming .

interestingly b. subtilis exerted an opposing effect on the cell surface expression pattern of cd1 proteins and lps reduced the levels of both cd1d and cd1a in modcs while m. morganii had no effect on the cell surface expression level of cd1 proteins.

these events can be further modulated by the unique characteristics of the internalized corpuscular antigens as well as by the cell surface receptor repertoire of the given cell.

bms614 was unable to increase the cell surface expression level of cd1a on the cell surface showing that a minimal concentration of endogenous atra is presented by modcs.in a further step we also demonstrated that the enhanced secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokines  and il-23  induced by commensal bacteria could be ame- liorated by the prior blockade of rara.

ligation of the cd40 cell surface molecule enhances the inflammatory potential of dcs  and the resting modcs concomitantly conditioned with atra upregulate the cell surface expression of cd40 which can be further increased by e. coli schaedler as compared to modcs differentiated in the absence of atra.

mean values of modcs positive for7-aad staining were calculated from five independent experiments sd.figure s3  the invariant natural killer t inkt cell inducing capacity of monocyte-derived dentritic cell modc populations stimulated by escherichia coli schaedler and bacillus subtilis.

8427. doi dendritic cells are considered as the main coordinators of both mucosal and systemic immune responses thus playing a determining role in shaping the outcome of effector cell responses.

moreover physiological concentrations of all-trans retinoic acid atra are able to re-program the differentiation of modcs resulting in altered gene expression profiles of the master transcription factors rara and interferon regulatory factor 4 and concomitantly regulate the cell surface expression levels of cd1 proteins and also the mucosa-associated cd103 integrin to different directions.

the local dendritic cell dc network involves a highly heterogeneous population of cells of myeloid and bone marrow origin  and in the course of this balancing regulation modcs also act as potent organizers of adaptive immunity leading to the maintenance of peripheral tolerance against the gut resident microbes.

in addition a set of genes encod- ing proteins related to metabolism lipid antigen processing and presentation invariant natural killer t inkt cell activation and ra synthesis are regulated by pparg and overlaps with those reg- ulated by retinoic acid receptor alpha rara - showing that rara also serves as a master regulator of modc functions.

