The abundance of Lactoba- cillaceae was higher in ileal digesta 16 than in feces 2 and contrary the abundance of Ruminococcaceae was higher in feces 23 than in ileal digesta 0.5.Table 6 Results from PERMANOVA test for dietary effect on 16S rRNA sequencing data from ileal digesta1Pperm-value of protein level2Pperm-value of probiotic supplementation with Bacillus spp.3Pperm-value of interaction between protein level and probiotic supplementation with Bacillus spp.Table 7 Ileal gene copy numbersa in ileal digesta of growing pigsHigh-proteinLow-proteinSEMP-valueItem--P1B2Px B31P-value of protein level2P-value of probiotic supplementation with Bacillus spp.3P-value of interaction between protein level and probiotic supplementation with Bacillus spp.alog10 16S rRNA gene copiesg digesta LS means and standard error of the meansbcWithin a row LS means with a common superscript are not different at a  0.05DiscussionAccording to previous studies B. subtilis and B. licheni- formis produce extracellular enzymes including prote- ases and a-amylase which may enhance nutrient digestibility resulting in improved feed conver- sion in finisher pigs In addition B. subtilis exceedsB.

in cecal samples of pigs while supplementa- tion of diets with B. subtilis and B. licheniformis showed similar results in slurry samples from pigs due to a lowering effect on the pH Therefore LP dietssupplemented with B. subtilis and B. licheniformis might be used to reduce the production of harmful microbial metabolites in the large intestine of pigs.ConclusionsSupplementation with Bacillus spp.

such as Ba- cillus subtilis B. subtilis and Bacillus licheniformis B. licheniformis are frequently supplemented to pig diets - as these two species have been listed to be added as non-toxigenic biological supplements to livestock di- ets  and additionally they are widely used for the large-scale industrial production of proteins including extracellular enzymes Positive effects of dietary sup- plementation of B. subtilis and B. licheniformis on pigs' growth performance have been reported before Activity of probiotics is influenced by diet composition and variations in dietary protein supply thereby pos- sibly affecting microbial composition in the gut  .

A high diversity in intestinal microbiota might be preferable to cope effectively with potential challenging conditions .Regardless of dietary protein level the supplementa- tion of B. subtilis and B. licheniformis had a stimulating effect on targeted quantity of Roseburia spp.

However concerning antibiotic resist- ance which is considered to be an important key re- quirement for probiotics a higher concentration of antibiotics is tolerated by B. licheniformis than by B. sub- tilis Recently probiotic characteristics were de- scribed for spores of B. subtilis although interactions with porcine epithelial cells are not understood so farFor example the supplementation of B. subtilis to a soybean meal diet showed slight improvements in AID and SID of some AA in weaning pigs as described by Kim et al.

In the present study the dietary CP level and the supple- mentation of B. subtilis and B. licheniformis showed an interaction as supplementation of B. subtilis and B. licheniformis increased Bacteroides-Prevotella-Porphyro- monas in the LP diets when compared to HP diets.

The titanium dioxide content in the assay diets and ileal digesta samples was performed accord- ing to the procedure described by Brandt and Allam DNA extraction of ileal digesta and feces samplesGenomic DNA was extracted from 250 mg ileal digesta and feces using Fast DNA Spin Kit for Soil MP Biomedicals GmbH Heidelberg Germany.

This variation along sampling sites is in agreement with a previous study in- vestigating as well ileal digesta and fecal samples from pigs where abundance patterns of Prevotella species in the GIT of pigs were different between ileal digesta and fecal samples.The results of this study demonstrate an overall lower bacterial diversity for ileal digesta compared with fecal samples.

b. Ileal microbiota from dietaryTable 4 Apparent ileal digestibility of crude protein and amino acids of the assay dietsaHigh-protein Low-protein SEM P-valueItem--P1B2Px B3 Crude protein76.475.480.0 76.6 2.09 0.273 0.310 0.573Indispensable amino acidsTable 5 Standardized ileal digestibility of crude protein and amino acids of the assay dietsaHigh-protein Low-protein SEM P-valueItem--P1B2Px B3 Crude protein82.181.387.8 83.9 2.09 0.063 0.274 0.488Indispensable amino acids2P-value of probiotic supplementation with Bacillus spp.3P-value of interaction between protein level and probiotic supplementation with Bacillus spp.aLS means and standard error of the means treatments without probiotic supplementation con- sisted mainly of Peptostreptococcaceae Clostridiaceae 1 Streptococcaceae Lactobacillaceae and Erysipelotri- chaceae with even proportions except for Peptostrepto- coccaceae and Streptococcaceae being the predominant family in the HP and LP treatment respectively.

Ileal digesta and feces samples for microbial community analysis were immediately put on ice before being stored in a freezer at -80 degC for subsequent treat- ment and analyses.Chemical analysesOfficial standard methods  were used to determine contents of proximate nutrients neutral detergent fiber NDF acid detergent fiber ADF acid detergent lignin ADL and microbial numbers of B. subtilis and B. licheni- formis in assay diets.

