the synbiotic composed by l. fermentum cect5716 and fructooligosaccharides has beneficial effects in a model of metabolic syndrome induced by a hfd suggesting it might be clinically useful in this type of condition particularly considering that high fructose intake has been related to metabolic syndrome in humans.keywordsbarrier function  fructose  leptin  metabolic syndrome  microbiotaadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived july 21 2016revised march 14 2017accepted april 12 20171introductioncorrespondence dr. ferm'in sa' nchez de medinae-mail abbreviations fos fructooligosaccharides glp-1 glucagon- like peptide 1 hfd high fructose diet fiaf fasting-induced adi- pose factor irs-1 insulin receptor substrate 1 mcp1 monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 pyy peptide yy scfa short-chainobesity insulin resistance fatty acid profile alterations and hypertension are the hallmarks of metabolic syndrome 1. a direct link between metabolic syndrome and intestinal dys- biosis has been proposed.

the latter may be at least partly ascribed to lower insulin 33. how glp-1pyy are increased by the synbiotic is uncertain although the mechanism is independent of ffar23 ligation as scfa levels were com- parable to those in the control group as well as of leptin since both peptides were further augmented in the synbiotic group despite reduced leptin.

scfa have also been described to weaken intestinal barrier function and to favor endotoxemia 3. increased intestinal ikb-a phosphorylation and permeability have been reported in mice fed an hfd for 8 weeks 26. downregulation of zo- 1 has been reported in conditions associated with increased scfa andor high fructose diets 27. it should be noted how- ever that scfa also have antiinflammatory actions 28. ourdata suggest that scfa played a pathogenic role based on the correlation of scfa levels endoxemia and other param- eters.

the rats of the hfd group also exhibited an increase in cyanobacteria and a decrease in tenericutes.administration of the synbiotic to hfd fed rats prevented some of the aforementioned changes.

 food  functiona synbiotic composed of lactobacillus fermentum cect5716 and fos prevents the development of fatty acid liver and glycemic alterations in rats fed a high fructose diet associated with changes in the microbiotabele' n rivero-gutie' rrez13 reyes ga' mez-belmonte13 mar'ia dolores sua' rez2 jose' luis lav'in4 ana mar'ia aransay4 mo' nica olivares5 olga mart'inez-augustin236 ferm'in sa' nchez de medina13 and antonio zarzuelo11 department of and pharmacology ciberehd school of pharmacy university of granada spain2 department of biochemistry and molecular biology ii1 ciberehd school of pharmacy university of granada spain3 instituto de investigacio' n biosanitaria ibs.granada university of granada spain4 cic biogune ciberehd derio spain5 biosearch life ciberehd granada spain6 instituto de ciencia y tecnolog'ia de los alimentos jose' mataix university of granada spainwe investigated the effect of a high fructose diet hfd on sprague dawley rats and the im- pact of a synbiotic composed of lactobacillus fermentum cect5716 and fructooligosaccharides.

we have additionally carried out an extensive characterization of this model at the hepatic and intestinal level as this aspect of hfd intake has not been addressed to date.2materials and methodsmale sprague-dawley rats were divided randomly in 3 groups n  10 and fed regular diet td.98394 control group hfd td.89247 hfd group or hfd supplemented at 5 ww with fos oraftiqr -p95 beneo mannheim germany hfd-synb group.

in rats fed with a high fructose diet hfd for 12 weeks a decreased body weight together with lower plasma cholesterol and triglyceride and reduced pro- inflammatory cytokines levels was observed after treatment with fos 12.in this study we have used a synbiotic that combines fos and fos-fermenting lactobacillus fermentum cect5716 13 and have assessed its effect in a metabolic syndrome model induced by the administration of a hfd in rats.

scfa are the main energy source for the intestinal epithelium and have a number of additional ef- fects including differentiation and antiinflammatory actions acting as lipogenic substrates and upregulation of systemic glp-1 and pyy via ligation of ffar3 gpr41 and ffar2 gpr43 receptors 5. glp-1 and pyy have important salu- tary metabolic effects 5 and were increased in hfd fed ratsfigure 4. analysis of the microbiota and scfa.

2. intestinal immune markers cxcl1 s100a8 il6 and lyz-2 were signif- icantly downregulated by synbiotic treatment even though they were not increased in hfd rats fig.

thus in our study gammaproteobacteria and erysipelotrichi were decreased and increased respectively inthe hfd group and the latter were normalized in the synbi- otic treated rats.

3. leptin was not detected in the colon in any of the groups not shown.hfd fed rats exhibited increased scfa associated withdistinct changes in the composition of the microbiota dominated by a decreased microbial diversity as shown by shannon's diversity index h and simpson's d index and an augmented bacteroidetesfirmicutes ratio fig.

only the synbiotic group featured akkerman- sia muciniphila a species related to improved barrier function 15 and had increased amounts of lactobacilli.

thus there was no sign of steatosis in this group and insulin resistance was in- termediate between that of the control and the hfd group.

moreover because fructose does not elicit insulin secretion nor satiety this metabolic unbalance tends to be increased.

2012 70 3-21.brandsma e. houben t. fu j. shiri-sverdlov r. et al.

