it has various physiological functions including acting as an antioxidant 1 2 or as an anticancer agent 3 4and enhancing host-defense 5. recently akg has been reported to modulate intestinal energy status amino acid metabolism integrity and even immunity 6. for example akg regulates cellular energy status through inhibiting adenosine triphosphate synthase and reducing oxygen consumption in mammalian and caenorhabditis elegans cells 7. akg has also beenreported to improve the energy status of the intestinal mucosa in lipopolysaccharide lps-challenged pigs 8. akg supplementation increases protein levels the ratio of villus height to crypt depth and the activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin pathway in intestinal mucosa but decreases intestinal 70 kilodalton heat shock protein expression in lps-challenged pigs 9. recent compelling investigations have shown that glutamine gln and arginine arg which can convert to akg indirectly regulate intestinal innate immunity by activating multiple signaling pathways and modulating the intestinal microbiota in a mouse model 10 11. however the role of akg in intestinal innate immunity and its effect on the intestinal microbiota remain unclear.

research paper pathologyalpha-ketoglutarate akg lowers body weight and affects intestinal innate immunity through influencing intestinal microbiotashuai chen123456 peng bin123456 wenkai ren12345 wei gao12345 gang liu12345 jie yin123456 jielin duan123456 yinghui li123456 kang yao12345 ruilin huang12345 bie tan12345 and yulong yin12345key laboratory of agro-ecological processes in subtropical region institute of subtropical agriculture chinese academy of sciences changsha chinanational engineering laboratory for pollution control and waste utilization in livestock and poultry production hunan chinahunan provincial engineering research center for healthy livestock and poultry production hunan chinascientific observation and experimental station of animal nutrition and feed science in south-central ministry ofagriculture hunan chinahunan co-innovation center of animal production safety changsha hunan chinauniversity of chinese academy of sciences beijing china these authors have contributed equally to this workcorrespondence to gang liu email keywords alpha-ketoglutarate cryptdin intestinal microbiota intestinal immunity pathology sectionreceived october 24 2016accepted april 04 2017published april 16 2017copyright chen et al.

therefore akg supplementation may lower mouse body weight through its effects on the intestinal microbiota.akg affected intestinal innate immunity through intestinal microbiotawe analyzed the expression of intestinal pro- inflammatory cytokines e.g.

a-defensins are antimicrobial peptides expressed by paneth cells or goblet cells and have important roles in mucosal defense 36. interestingly akg supplementation inhibits the expression of crp1 and crp5 in the ileum of antibiotic-treated mice suggesting that intestinal microbiota may mediate the influence of akg supplementation on the expression of a-defensins.in conclusion dietary akg supplementation lowers body weight influences intestinal microbiota and actives intestinal immunity but fails to increase the body weight and active intestinal immunity in antibiotic-treated mice.

however the influence of akg on the intestinal innate immune system and intestinal microbiota is unknown.

this study explores the effect of oral akg administration in drinking water 10 gl on intestinal innate immunity and intestinal microbiota in a mouse model.

we concluded that akg might affect body weight and intestinal innate immunity through influencing intestinal microbiota.introductionalpha-ketoglutarate akg is a keto acid synthesized by deamination of glutamate glu and an important intermediate of the tricarboxylic acid cycle.

knowledge of the influence of akg on intestinal microbiota and intestinal immunity is critical to enhancing our understanding of the crosstalk among nutrition immunity and the microbiota.

as arg and gln are two important regulators of akg metabolism we hypothesized that akg also affects intestinal innate immunity and the intestinal microbiota.

the results demonstrated that akg supplementation lowers body weight and influences the variety and composition of the intestinal microbiota in addition to intestinal innate immunity such as promoting ileal expression of mammalian defensins of the alpha subfamily.resultsakg lowered body weightthe feed intake water intake and body weight of mice were monitored.

indicates a statistically significant difference between the two groups p  0.05.akg influenced intestinal microbiotaintestinal microbiota cluster analysis was processed using taxon-dependent analysis to investigate the taxonomy of the intestinal microbiota of the control group and the akg group.

in particular a shift in the firmicutes-to-bacteroidetes ratio to favor bacteroidetes in the feces was observed.akg lowered body weight through intestinal microbiotawe hypothesized that akg supplementation lowered the body weight of mice through influencing the intestinal microbiota.

the results showed that akg supplementation increased the mrna abundance of crp1 4 and 5 p  0.05 but reduced the expression of muc4 p  0.05. interestingly akg supplementation significantly inhibited the expression of crp1 and crp5 in antibiotic-treated mice p  0.05. thus the influence of akg in intestinal innate immunity depends on the intestinal microbiota.discussionakg plays multiple roles in cellular metabolism such as regulating amino acid concentration inhibiting protein catabolism and enhancing protein synthesis12 and controlling lipid levels 13. exogenous akg can be rapidly transaminated to glu gln arg proline and other amino acids 14 15. on the other hand glu can be synthesized from gln or arg and glu is also converted to akg by glutamate dehydrogenase in the liver brain or other organs 16 17. our previous reports demonstrated that dietary arg and gln influenced growth performance in various conditions of dyshomeostasis such as mycotoxin contamination oxidative stress and infection 18-20 suggesting a similar function for akg via the transamination pathway.

intestinal microbiota have been suggested to exhibit numerous biological functions and to be involved in the development of various diseases such as obesity 25 cancer 26 type 2 diabetes 27 metabolic disorders 28 and inflammationfigure 2 akg supplementation influences intestinal microbiota.

the statistical analyzing between two groups was performed by the student's t-test.figure 4 akg supplementation affects intestinal innate immunity may through intestinal microbiota.

