It is known that plant-derived chemical compounds impact plants response against microbes and also mediate changes in plant development via upregulation of growth regulator response  .One important plant growth hormone is the indole-3-acetic acid a natural auxin which is responsible for plant cell division and elongation and serves as a signaling molecule in the process of organ and root offshoot initiation  .

The emission of VOCs induces a response in the neighboring plant communities and can improve plant fitness by alerting nearby plants of an impending threat and prompting them to alter their physiology for defensive purposes.

It is documented that the ability of B. subtilis to colonize plant roots via biofilm formation is an important feature that adds to the plant growth promotion and biocontrol activity    .

At this juncture we do not fully understand how this association may inflict plant growth promotion phenotype in the undamaged neighboring plants.In this study we report that aboveground mechanical wounding elicits substantial belowground changes in plant phenotypic and genotypic characteristics.

Plant-derived signals released by the wounded plant resulted in more elaborate root development in the neighboring unwounded plants.

When colonized on plant rootssubtilis forms a sort of protective armor around its host by secreting antimicrobial compounds namely the lipopeptide surfactin that inhibit the growth of fungi nematodes and pathogenic bacteria like Pseudomonas syringae .

The root secretions and VOCs serve as a plant's arsenal of chemical signals that induce change in interintraplant interactions     .

The role of auxin in mitigating plant stress has also been noted specifically to inhibit photo-respiratory-dependent cell death in Arabidopsis thaliana  .

Root growth and differentiation is important for plant survival and its adaption to the extreme environment  .

Documented in interspecies and intra-plant within a single organism systems plant- derived chemicals including VOCs change plant transcriptional patterns of defense-related genes and can increase production of growth regulators related to defending against a certain stressor  .

