In conclusion metagenome analysis was useful for rapid bacterial diagnostics including assessing potential antimicrobial susceptibility in patients with AC.Keywords acute cholecystitis metagenome analysis next-generation sequencing bacteriological analysis gut microbiotaINTRODUCTIONAcute cholecystitis AC is the acute inflammation of the gallbladder.

67 2640-2644. doi Conflict of Interest Statement The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.Copyright c 2017 Kujiraoka Kuroda Asai Sekizuka Kato Watanabe Matsukiyo Saito Ishii Katada Saida and Kusachi.

The median time from onset to operation was 39.5 h with the median time from admission to operation being 31 h. The patients underwent antimicrobial treatment several times before the operation except for one case.

The other aerobic porter was immediately frozen at -20C for future metagenome analysis.

The conventional method requires bacteria to be individually cultured whereas metagenome analysis is a comprehensive approach that enables the direct sequencing of bacterial DNA without bacterial cultivation Takeuchi et al.

The appearance of bile was white and it was bacteriologically positive by metagenome analysis Figure 1.

The funders had no role in the study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.

Currently there are no reports regarding the use of a metagenomic approach to reveal comprehensive microbiota analysis of patients with AC.Metagenome analysis by next-generation DNA sequencing NGS has led to a new method of identifying the etiological agents of an infectious disease Tang and Chiu 2010 Chan et al.

For the case of bactibilia the metagenome analysis results were consistent with those of conventional culture examination and antimicrobial susceptibility testing.A greater number of ESBL-positive E. coli NGS reads were detected by metagenome analysis in P1 and P4 compared with that in other patients.

8685. doi Abbreviations AC Acute cholecystitis ERCP Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ESBLs Extended-spectrum ss-lactamase IBD Inflammatory bowel disease MLST Multilocus sequence typing NA Not applicable NGS Next-generation sequencing TG13 Tokyo guidelines 2013.Takada et al.

