archaeal and bacterial diversity and richness were not affected by forage preparation type p  0.05 in lam samples however lower phylogenetic diversity was observed in lam samples at day5 compared with days 10 and 15 68.84 vs. 74.8 and 74.2 respectively p  0.05. the archaeal and bacterial diversity and richness in sam samples were also not affected by the forage preparation p  0.05 .the effect of microbial sample type lam vs. sam forage preparation and sampling time on the structure of the archaealand bacterial microbiota was analyzed using unweighted unifrac distances .

the subsequent distance matricesall 16s rrna gene sequences were submitted to the ncbi sequence read archive sra under bio-project accession prjna304765.statistical analysisfermentation and alpha-diversity data were analyzed using the mixed procedure of sas sas inc. 2015 sas online doc 9.1.3. the model included the fixed effects of forage preparation day and forage preparation day interaction.

otus that were differentially abundant by sample type forage preparation type and sampling time were identified using the g-test of independence with a false discovery rate fdr  0.05. linear discriminant analysis effect size lefse was used to determine which phyla and genera were enriched at each sampling time forage preparation type and sample type.

at the genus- level prevotella was the most relatively abundant 44.8 while dialister 8.4 succiniclasticum 3.5 lactobacillus 2.6were visualized as principal coordinate analysis pcoa plots using emperor  .1 table 1  effects of forage preparation on total gas methane and substrate disappearance in the rusitec fermentation.p-valuesem standard error of mean dm dry matter dmd dry matter disappearance ivdmd in vitro dry matter disappearance.table 2  effect of forage preparation on ph and volatile fatty acids vfa production.p-valuedifferent lowercase letters indicate significant differences between freeze-dried and ground and frozen minced prepared forages p  0.05. bcvfa branched-chain vfa iso-butyrate  iso-valerate.and treponema 2.1 were the only other genera with an overall relative abundance  2.0 .in regards to methanogens only the solid fraction from the original rumen sample had a relatively high abundance of methanogens classes methanobacteria and methanomicrobia 22.9. nearly all of these methanogenic sequences were identified as methanobrevibacter 22.6. excluding the original rumen samples the relative abundance of the methanogens was 1.6 among all samples.

in the present study we examined the effect of fm vs. fdg forage preparation on ch4 total gas and vfa production and on the archaeal and bacterial microbiota using a rusitec system.our findings indicated that forage substrate preparation had very little effect on fermentation parameters.

however fm preparation of forages achieves a forage particle distritution similar to what occurs in the chewing activity  and .in terms of the molar proportion of vfa a significant increase in butyrate production for fm forage preparation was found a result that is in agreement with  who reported a greater proportion of butyrate in fresh forage compared with conserved forage.

these findings indicate that methane production in the rumen may be influenced by the relative abundance of archaea rather than the microbial population structure as argued by  and  since the fm forage preparation showed an increased trend on methane production.in the current study the rumen microbiota was dominated by the bacteroidetes and firmicutes phyla in both fm and freeze- dried preparation samples.

therefore the higher relative abundance of prevotella in the fm samples may indicate that thisforage preparation method results in a microbiota that is more similar to the natural rumen.conclusionwe can partially reject our initial hypothesis since this study demonstrated that fermentation parameters are generally not affected by the type of forage preparation with the exception of butyrate and a small trend in methane production.

 edited byangel angelov technische universitat munchengermanyreviewed by erica marie hartmann northwestern university usa malgorzata szumacher-strabel poznan university of life sciencespolandcorrespondence alexandre v. chaves present addressdevin b. holman national animal disease center agricultural research service united states department of agricultureames ia usaspecialty section this article was submitted to systems microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 12 october 2016accepted 05 april 2017published 20 april 2017citationduarte ac holman db alexander tw durmic z vercoe pe and chaves av 2017 the typeof forage substrate preparation included as substrate in a rusitec system affects the ruminal microbiota and fermentationcharacteristics.

the aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of forage preparation i.e.

evidence from this study suggests that forage preparation affects ch4 production butyrate production and the structure of the rumen microbiota during in vitro fermentation.keywords rusitec microbial ecology rumen methane fermentation forage microbiota cattleintroductionreducing methane ch4 emissions from anthropogenic activities is of considerable interest since enteric fermentation from ruminants accounts for 25 of the 40 derived from agriculture    .

diet type concentrate forage as well as the preparation influences the fermentation process and the composition of the rumen microbiota   .

for example there is a requirement for appropriate methods that describe the preparation of fresh forage material to be used in in vitro systems.

in recent years it has been common practice to use forages in freeze- dried and ground fdg form as a substrate in these systems   however digestion products and kinetics are altered when fresh forage is used  .the type of feed preparation has very significant effects on degradation kinetics in terms of constituent disappearance proteolysis volatile fatty acids production and microbial growth.

although conventional feed preparation involves freeze drying and grinding this is not appropriate for fresh forages which have been both minced and freeze dried for comparison   .

