 wormbookevolution and ecologythe natural biotic environment of caenorhabditis eleganshinrich schulenburg1 and marie-anne felix1zoological institute christian-albrechts universitaet zu kiel 24098 kiel germany institut de biologie de l'ecole normale superieure centre national de la recherche scientifique institut national de la sante et de la recherche medicale ecole normalesuperieure l'universite de recherche paris sciences et lettres 75005 franceorcid id h.s.abstract organisms evolve in response to their natural environment.

e-mail hy are .40 of the genes of caenorhabditis elegansstill without functional annotation and .60 without a described phenotype petersen et al.

these usu- ally rely on an artificial environment consisting of agar plates supplemented with the bacterial food strain escherichia coli and analysis of the canonical c. elegans strain  which shows numerous adaptations to the laboratory condi- tions sterken et al.

during the 20th century a handful of studies repeatedly isolated c. elegans from nature and characterized specific aspects of its ecology for example its interaction with certain food microbes grewal 1991a grewal and wright 1992 venette and ferris 1998 or varia- tion in its reproductive system hodgkin and doniach 1997. the interest in c. elegans natural populations has especially gained momentum since 2005 when several articles on itsnatural distribution and population genetic characteristics were published barriere and felix 2005 haber et al.

this hasbeen particularly well-documented for interactions of host organisms with their coevolving parasites and pathogens woolhouse et al.

2002 decaestecker et al.

2007 schulte et al.

2010 morran et al.

2011 brockhurst et al.

2014 koskella and brockhurst 2014 king et al.

as parasitespathogens by definition reduce host fitness and often depend on their hosts for survival and prolifer- ation their adaptation can impose continuously high selective constraints on their hosts woolhouse et al.

2002 brockhurst et al.

the exceptionally high selective pressures produced by parasites or sexual interactions is reflected in the finding of sig- nificantly higher evolutionary rates in the genes associated with immunity and thus parasite defense and also sex-related genes ellegren and parsch 2007 fumagalli and sironi 2014 sironi et al.

these changing selection dynam- ics are not only countered by single point mutations but may account for the emergence of large gene families when gene duplications allow a faster response to the selective challenge than point mutations or small insertionsdeletions as repeat- edly documented in bacteria andersson and hughes 2009 pena-miller et al.

2013 and suggested for some eukaryotes kondrashov 2012 katju and bergthorsson 2013 assogba et al.

