instead these patients seem to be victims of a mutation that increases substantially their sus- ceptibility for a severely abnormal cardiac rhythm and therefore triggers scd 24. a relatively well-defined group of mutations is responsible for what is called a long qt syn- drome 24 and a common framework for such events of scd in these patients appears to be a dysfunctional ion channel or channelopathy 24 35. some arrhythmias that can lead to scd may involve ros and result from inherited disorders such as in kearns-sayre syndrome a rare disease and in this case the diseased mitochondria seems to be the source for ros and yet no specific therapies have been developed that target ros in the pathophysiology of such disorders 31.other ''rare'' mechanisms that are not because of athero- sclerotic coronary artery disease cardiac hypertrophy or channelopathies include rare conditions such as valve dis- orders arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia hemo- chromatosis coronary anomaly or sarcoidosis as examples of ''rare'' diseases that can cause common scd 40. con- sequently it is clear that many ''rare'' categorized conditions can result in common scd and the scd case is an example of an endpoint to a disease that is the result of a compendium of factors including common and rare contributing factors thus validating our belief that a common disease process is a compendium of rare diseases.when a rare disease gets a ticket to rideas a common illness ros and virus cooperationkaposi's sarcoma ks is diagnosed on the base of one or multiple discolored purplish lesions of the skin or mucosa.

mi corresponds to a sudden ischemic event of the heart that is caused by a substantial reduction in blood flow to a section of the heart tissue often as the result of rupture or erosion of an atheroma plaque in the culprit coronary artery which in turn triggers the formation of an occlusive throm- bus ischemia-induced arrhythmia and the scd event 15 16 18. many of these events have been shown to require the participation of ros 5 and at multiple levels of the mo- lecular pathway leading to scd however antioxidant ther- apy as currently conceived and applied has failed to improve the outcome of patients 11 32. it is the detailed under- standing of the many molecular reactions taking place in the arterial wall and the blood during these events including the expansion of atherosclerosis inflammation that causes them which will allow for effective therapeutic interventions that target the participation of ros and possibly rns to the relevant pathological processes 5 21.although susceptibility for arrhythmia may augment the risk of scd in a particular scd individual it is the micro- environment of ischemic myocardium that is the determinant for the scd arrhythmic event with or without scar tissue 4 18 29 30 37. it has also been shown that most individuals who develop scd have remarkably accelerated atheroscle- rosis the formation of the coronary atheroma 18. the consequence is that by age 40-50 years victims will present with a complement of atheroma lesions in their coronary tree that is worse than what would be expected in someone 80 or 90 years old with a more standard form of atherosclerosis 4 18 29 30 37. even for younger individuals with scd 30- 35 years coronary artery disease seems to be the primary etiology of scd 4. the mechanism responsible for this accelerated formation of atheroma remains unknown.

finding new cures for all ''rare'' diseases will be at the core of the new era of big data analysis with accuracy and precision in both molecular and genetic diagnostics of deficiencies that lead to diseases and individualized therapeutic interventions re- sulting from advances in biomedical technologies at the macro- micro- and nanoscale 1 9. we believe that the understanding of the concept of ''rare-to-common'' diseases is an important step in executing the precision medicine in- itiative currently being pursued to tailor therapies and inter- ventions through cutting edge biomedical discoveries 1 9.acknowledgmentthe authors thank trajen head for invaluable support with the preparation of the figures.referencesantman em and loscalzo j. precision medicine in cardi- ology.

''common'' diseases may cause a few or many symptoms that can be similar or even identical to those found in ''rare'' diseases.

individuals with so-called common diseases may have a number of symptoms that are shared by all affected but also other distinct and more specific symptoms that result in the reclassification of the ''common'' disease in the bin of ''not as common'' or even ''rare'' illnesses fig.

in particular victims of scd can be very young sometimes athletes and develop scd as a result of a ''rare'' condition of cardiac hypertrophy the most common known cause of scd in the very young 26. cardiac hy- pertrophy can be triggered by genetic mutations that often lead to abnormal organization andor functioning of the cy- toskeleton inside cardiac cells 39.an even smaller group of traits that are genetic in nature can lead to severe cardiac arrhythmia in the absence of athero-fig.

27 511-516.keywords rare diseases sudden cardiac death kaposi's sarcoma virus cooperation 21st century medicine common illnessessuccess of western medicine and pattern recognitions we engage in a deep dive into human illnesses for the ''precision medicine'' initiative it is important to realizethat most human conditions are traditionally organized and classified according to the interpretation of individuals who in good faith have used pattern recognition to connect various signs and symptoms radiology laboratory and other pa- thology data to establish particular diseases or disease states.

we make the case that it is highly unlikely that such treatments despite their statistical success measured with large cohorts using standardized clinical research will be effective on all patients until we increase the depth and fidelity of our understanding of the individual ''rare'' diseases that are grouped together in the ''buckets'' of common illnesses.

the study of clinical labo- ratory markers pathophysiology testing microbiological analysis of body fluids and tissues and the refinement ofmolecular tissue imaging chromosomes dna rna me- tabolites and other antigens the flexner era 10 13.it is notable that although reactive oxygen species ros and reactive nitrogen species rns have been shown to have an essential role in signaling or other critical cellular deci- sions 5 19 38 and in practically all disease processes from cardiovascular diseases to cancers as examples 15 36 little if any of the substantial body of knowledge concerning these moieties has contributed to clinical advances 20.the biased concept of rare and common disease moving to 21st century medicinea ''rare'' or ''orphan'' disease by definition is a disease that is infrequent as only a small number of individuals are affected with it 33 34. usually these illnesses are associated with genetic mutations and susceptibility and are endemic to1department of biochemistry and molecular biology miller school of medicine university of miami miami florida.2national center for advancing translational sciences national institutes of health bethesda maryland.3department of medicine cardiology division and strategic international projects miller school of medicine university of miami miami florida.511certain ethnic groups or geographically defined populations.

this editorial is taking into account the uniqueness of each individual and surrounding environment and stresses the point that a more accurate definition of a ''common'' disorder could be simply the amalgamation of a myriad of ''rare'' diseases.

effective treatment of all of these patients within the common bin may require more extensive molecular characterization of the individual rd components.in most cases dies a few minutes later 29 30 37. scd is responsible for 50 of cardiac deaths and 300000 deaths per year in the united states 29 30. it is striking that often scd is the first manifestation of a cardiac condition for an individual patient no matter the age 4 29 30 37. in other words the individual may live a life of 10 20 40 80 years or more without any symptoms of cardiovascular disease at least no perceived symptoms of cardiovascular disease until the onset of scd.

we also reviewed rare diseases like ks that all the sudden and as a con- sequence of virus cooperation become common diseases.

in some instances these ''rare'' diseases may have been pro- moted by viral bacterial fungal or parasitic infections aller- gies environmental contaminants or may be because of metabolic degenerative inflammatory or proliferative pro- cesses.

there are upward of an estimated 6500 diseases currently classified as rare affecting 200000 individuals or less however both these numbers keep on increasing as our ability to diagnose genetic and molecular deficiencies improves 33 34. on the contrary ''common'' illnesses are those that affect a large number of individuals and are therefore diagnosed in higher numbers and often have a global distribution.

this example also indicates that a particular disorder can be triggered by factors as different as a virus ks and the mutation of a proto-oncogene leading to the regulated production of superoxide and other ros.conclusionswe have reviewed conditions like scd that encompass a myriad of common and rare diseases.

