if these results are supported by future studies it could aid in the development of appropriate antifungal or probiotic interventions.abbreviationsaca australian coeliac association ascas anti-saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies anova analysis of variance cdq coeliac disease question- naire coed coeliac disease cfus colony forming units ga georgia gee generalised estimated equations gfd gluten free diet ibd inflammatory bowel disease il interleukin ifn interferon na not available nata national association of testing authorities nsw new south wales rct randomised controlled trial tgf transforming growth factor tnf tumour necrosis factor uac unable to calculate.authors' contributionsthe study reported in this manuscript forms part of ph.d. undertaken by jh under the supervision of sm.

the study sample consisted of 45 people with coed reporting mild to moderate gastro- intestinal symptoms and an external control group who had undertaken the same faecal testing used in this study at the same laboratory and within the same time period who also reported gastrointestinal symptoms from other causes but were negative for coed.ethicsthe study was approved by the human research ethics committee of southern cross university ethics approval number ecn-12-021.

cancer or inflammatory bowel disease f  had recent bowel or oral surgery g were not hiv-positive h did not have active alcohol and or illicit drug dependence i had not taken non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or antibiotics in the 4 weeks prior to undertaking faecal testing and j had no clinical abnormalities in serum urea electrolytes creatinine or liver function values at baseline testing.coed participants were interviewed by the study coor- dinator jh who took a medical history screened for adherence to a gfd and classified gastrointestinal symp- tom scores obtained using a baseline validated coeliac disease questionnaire cdq .

parasite detection data were analysed by con- ducting exact chi square tests on the two-way con- tingency tables coednon-coed and detectednot detected.all authors had access to the study data and reviewed and approved the final manuscript.resultsdemographicsa total of 37 females and eight males mean age47.3 years residing in new south wales australia were allocated to the coed arm of this study.

this study indicates that gastrointestinal dysbiosis is prevalent in this popula- tion and faecal assessment may provide important clinical information in this sub-group of coed patients.study limitationsthe addition of ascas as a biomarker would have strengthened the design of this study and provided greater insight as to the potential clinical relevance of the molecular detection of saccharomyces in faecal samples of indications with coed.

this study may have been strengthened through having the faecal specimens analysed by two laboratories to verify the findings.given the limitations of this study we cannot conclude there is a relationship of cause and effect but instead seek to report an important observation.

dr. gruner was a supervisor of the ph.d. thesis that forms the basis of this manuscript.competing intereststhe authors declare that they have no competing interests.availability of data and materialsall data generated or analysed during this study regarding yeast and parasites are included in the tables of this published article.ethics approval and consent to participatethe study was approved by the human research ethics committee of southern cross university ethics approval number ecn-12-021.

the study was supported by diagnostic insight through the provision of test kits biological specimen transportation and provision of the sydney clinical trial site and metametrix laboratory atlanta georgia usa through provision of laboratory analysis and consulting services.publisher's notespringer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in pub- lished maps and institutional affiliations.received 19 february 2017 accepted 20 april 2017referencesgreen p jabri b. celiac disease.

predictors of persistent symptoms and reduced quality of life in treated coeliac disease patients a large cross-sectional study.

influence of milk-feeding type and genetic risk of developing coeliac disease on intestinal microbiota of infants the profi- cel study.

prevalence and clinical features of selective immuno- globulin a deficiency in coeliac disease an italian multicentre study.

antibiotic exposure and the development of coe- liac disease a nationwide case-control study.

the role of the intestinal microbiota in the aetiology of the disease andor as a cause of partial symp- tom improvement in a sub-group of patients with coed is an area of interest .there is a growing body of evidence to suggest that the composition of the intestinal microbiome is associ- ated with a number of chronic diseases including obe- sity  diabetes  inflammatory bowel disease  and bowel cancer .

and the relationship between candida and siga and the onset of coed.a possible link between candida albicans and the aeti- ology of the inflammatory bowel disease ibd crohns disease has been reported .

development and validation of the celiac disease questionnaire cdq a disease-specific health-related quality of life measure for adult patients with celiac disease.

