the diversity of amps and lysozymes their differential expression in the n. vespilloides gut and their possible involvement in carcass sanitization regulation of gut microbiota andor the supplementation of digestive enzymes highlights the evolutionary plasticity of n. vespilloides immune responses in relation to context-specific environments such as the presence of carcass and offspring.the differential enrichment of go terms in the n. vespilloides gut transcriptomes suggests that region-specific metabolic processes may contribute to meat digestion nutrient transport and detoxification 1. midgut-specific gene expression is clearly dominated by proteins related to the breakdown of carbohydrates and the initial steps of protein digestion suggesting that at least the initial steps of most digestive processes may take place in this section of the n. vespilloides gut.

dna extracts from pure cultures of two yarrowia strains strains b02and c11 isolated from n. vespilloides anal secretions were amplified using specific qpcr primers fwd 50-tcaacaacggatctcttggc-30 and rev 50-ataccataccgcgcaatgtg-30 that target a 109 bp region of the its of n. vespilloides- associated yarrowia strains.

the potential role of yarrowia in carcass preservation and digestion was investigated by analysing the extracellular metabolites produced by the two representative yarrowia strains isolated from n. vespilloides anal secretions b02 and c11 representing clades i and ii respectively under in vitro condi- tions supplementary fig.

the combined analysis of go terms and microbial diversity suggests that beetles and their associated microbiota may complement each other to achieve carrion digestion and detoxification in the midguthindgut and rectum thus enabling both the internal and external utilization of carrion.the fungal community in the n. vespilloides gut and anal secretions was dominated by ascomycetous yeasts closely related to the biotechnologically important y. lipolytica that can break down diverse carbon sources including hydrocarbons and lipids.

interestingly these fatty acids have little or no inhibitory activity against yeasts but strongly inhibit other fungi and bacteria indicating that certain n. vespilloides defences could be safe for yarrowia but effective against other bacterial competitors.the n. vespilloides transcriptome and microbiome together shed light on the potential mechanisms by which insects preserve and provision food for their larvae in competitive and pathogen- rich environments yet at the same time maximize larval growth rates by digesting and assimilating the required nutrients.

13.the cloning and sequencing of fungal lsu amplicons also revealed the presence of yeasts related to y. lipolytica in the analsecretions of adult beetles 6. this was confirmed by the culture-dependent characterization of anal secretions from which a total of 91 colonies were isolated using the pooled anal secretions of adult females.

15 using the yarrowia-specific primers 28s-fwd228s-rev4 14. therefore we excluded the possibility that the yarrowia detected in the beetle gut and anal secretions could be transient or 'contaminants' acquired from the soil or the carcass.transcriptomic analysis of carcasses utilized by n. vespilloides.

the most abundant eukaryotic transcripts detected in the feeding cavity were yarrowia sequences but other fungal transcripts included those from the genera mucor zygomycota mucorales trichosporon basidiomycota tremellales mortierella zygomycota mortierellales crypto- coccus basidiomycota tremellales and rhizopus zygomycota mucorales 7. trichosporon and cryptococcus were also detected in the adult midgut or hindgut but neither was consistently present in both males and females supplementary table 3. we also detected carcass transcripts belonging to several nematodes including ancyclostoma nematoda rhabditida and haemonchus nematoda rhabditida 7. because yarrowia transcripts were the most abundant in the carcass cavity andfigure 5  localization of major bacterial taxa in the hindgut of an n. vespilloides adult female by fluorescence in situ hybridization.

all 53 cloned lsu sequences were most closely related to the biotechnologically important yeast yarrowia lipolytica ascomycota dipodascaceae and the majority of the tefap its sequences were also taxonomically assigned to yarrowia and supplementary table 2. the remaining its sequences originated from diverse and inconsistently detected ascomycota and basidiomycota.

part of the fungal lsu rrna gene was amplified from six adult beetles male midgut and hindgut and female midgut and hindgut and from anal secretions collected from two adult beetles using primers ls1 and lr5 as previously described.

vespilloides we analysed the bacterial community in the guts of male and female adult beetles as well as anal secretions and larvae.

the lysozyme complexes probably evolved for release through n. vespilloides anal secretions and diversified to produce multiple enzyme variants in this species.

we also detected yarrowia transcripts encoding enzymes involved in sterol biosynthesis converting farnesyl diphosphate an intermediate in the sterol biosynthesis pathway to lanosterol fecosterol and ergosterol.metabolic analysis of yarrowia isolated from anal secretions.

diagnostic pcrs confirmed the presence of yarrowia in seven out of eight tested adults and in all six tested larvae supplementary table 2. phylogenetic analysis of the yarrowia lsu sequences indicated that a closely related community of yarrowia strains colonized the beetle gut 6 all of which formed a monophyletic sister clade to the y. lipolytica type strain.

here we show that both traits are supported bya metabolically rich gut transcriptome producing a diverse set of digestive enzymes amps and lysozymes that may help to digest and preserve the carcass surface as well as a consistent bacterial and fungal gut microbiota that is transmitted to the larvae through anal secretions applied to the carcass surface.we identified amps and lysozymes that are differentially expressed in different regions of the gut corresponding to their presumed or confirmed presence in anal and oral secretions.

