through high-throughput screens of drug-microbe-host interactions and determine that bacterial metabolism underpins fluoropyr- imidine cytotoxicity providing a paradigm for unraveling bacterial mechanisms in drug metabolism.the relationship between the micro- biome and xenobiotic chemical pressures is complex.

both studies employ similar screening systems that allow drug bacterial food source and c. elegans ge- notype to be manipulated.

c. elegans can harbor diverse microbiota  so further study is needed to show how it could be employed to improve drug dosing and patient outcomes in precision medicine.references serves as a key cofactor for many en- zymes involved in ocm and impairing bacterial plp the active form of b6 syn- thesis also reduced 5-fu efficacy.

thymine starvation and subsequent cell death are canonically considered the mechanism of action for 5-fu but in both papers bacterial ribonu- cleotide metabolism emerged as a key driver of 5-fu activation and toxicity inc. elegans.

two papers in cell exploit c. elegans to infer anticancer drug mechanisms.

bacte- rial modification of a drug or metabolite can also lead to side effects bacterial deglucuronidation of irinotecan a topo- isomerase i inhibitor used for cancer treat- ment re-activates the drug and increases toxicity .

bacterial p-cresol a product of fermen- tation is a competitive inhibitor of hepatic enzymes that metabolize acetamino- phen increasing liver damage  .

immu- nomodulatory chemotherapy drugs such as cyclophosphamide and platinum salts require bacterial translocation from the gut to produce an immune response .identifying microbes and pathways involved in xenobiotic metabolism and their mechanisms remains challenging.

elegans has great potential to serve as an informative experimentally acces- sible model system for studying drug metabolism in the host-microbiome holo- biont.

first c. elegans is arguably the best-char- acterized animal on earth.

with a wide variety of genetic tools available including crispr-cas9 c. elegans serves as an excellent tool for genetic study in a multicellular organism.

furthermore c. elegans can be easily and inexpensively maintained in the labo- ratory.

elegans to enable the study of drug interactions with the host-microbiota hol- obiont.

since colorectal cancer oc- curs at the interface with the gut micro- biota and because other drugs are known to be metabolized differently depending on the individual patient's microbiome investigating the contribution of the mi- crobiota to drug efficacy and activation for fluoropyrimidines is a promising avenue of exploration.5-fu and the other drugs screened in these papers impede c. elegans development and fertility.

these screens identified specific bacterial genes and pathways involved in drug efficacy allow- ing more detailed mechanistic studies .

