shannon diversity was lower in these samples median 0.74 interquartile range iqr 0.65-0.93 than in other samples median 1.76 iqr 1.39-1.99. in patient f who received vancomycin after imipenem the proportions of proteobacteria at dstop d15 and d30 range 88.5-98.2 were much higher than in all other samples median 1.2 range 0-49.9. in patient g who received four differ- ent antibiotics including levofloxacin in the month preceding imipenem samples d0 d3 and dstop had the highest proportions of bacteroides.

in patients b and c who were only treated for 3 days and 4 days respectively the d3 samples were the dstop samples only four samples were analysed.

it was shown here by the failure to detect blactx-m genes when the bacteria carrying them were at low levels.nevertheless metagenomics allowed the detection of specific pat- terns undetected by culture but presumably not attributable to imipenem such as the specific patterns of the colostomy samples from patient k the reduced diversity and increased proportion of bacteroides in samples d0 d3 and dstop from patient g probably linked to the fluoroquinolones received before imipenem  and the increased proportion of proteobacteria in samples dstop d15 and d30 from patient f who received vancomycin after imipenem .in conclusion metagenomic and culture-based techniques were highly complementary in characterising the gut microbiota from clin- ical specimens and showed that imipenem induces minimal changes in these patients who have usually been previously exposed to an- tibiotics and hospitalisation.

in patient k samples d0 and d3 taken from a drainable pouch after colostomy were enriched in lactobacillales streptococcus lactococcus and lactobacillus and depleted in40bdetection of blactx-m and carbapenemase genesblactx-m gene fragments were detected in 27.1 1348 of the samples including all those from patients f and m but in none from patients c d e h and p and intermittently from the others.

patient k had a colostomy from 41 days before to day 9 of imipenem treatment the d0 and d3 samples were obtained from the colostomy whereas the dstop d15 and d30 samples were normal faecal samples.

samples with higher proportions of enterobacteriaceae correlated with higher counts of blactx-m genes spearman's r  0.66 .the carbapenemase gene ccra from bacteroides also called cfia was identified in four samples dstop and d15 of patient c and dstop and d30 of patient k. no other carbapenemase genes were detected.detection of yeastsyeasts were identified in only three samples of patient k kluyveromyces at d0 candida at d15 and both genera at d3 using metaphlan2.

the microbiota patterns in some samples from patients k d0 and d3 g d0 d3 and dstop and f dstop d15 and d30 differed from those of other samples in terms of pro- portions of the most prevalent genera supplementary fig.

lusitaniaebacteroides but not the three further samples obtained after the co- lostomy was closed.no significant differences were detected when the overall bac- terial communities of samples from the different sampling points was compared permanova pairwise tests p  0.1493-0.968. however the median bray-curtis similarity was highest for the d0- d3 intra-individual comparisons and then decreased for the d0- dstop d0-d15 and d0-d30 comparisons supplementary fig.

kluyveromyces was by far the most abundant genus in the two colostomy samples from patient k.comparison of metagenomic and culture techniquesof the 27 samples positive for esbl-e in culture 14 were neg- ative for blactx-m genes in metagenomics suggesting insufficient sequencing depth.

colostomy samples and samples taken duringafter vancomycin va treatment are surrounded by an oval.

in the 13 blactx-m-positive samples the median proportion of enterobacteriaceae was 20.7 iqr 4.5-47.7 and correlated with blactx-m counts spearman's r  0.9 whereas of the 35 blactx-m-negative samples enterobacteriaceae were detected in only 14 median proportion 0 iqr 0-1.9. iqr interquartile range.changes.

culture- based techniques were used to analyse all samples whereas metagenomics was only performed in the 10 patients for whom a d0 faecal sample and not only swabs was available.culture-based techniquesthe esbl-e carriage rate was very high at initiation of imipenem 70.6 1217  similar to the esbl-e relative abundance median 100 range 3.8 x 10-5 to 102 supplementary fig.

the metagenomic analysis showed that samples from the same patient clustered together even though the duration of imipenem treatment varied between individuals and most patients were exposed to multiple antibiotics before andor after imipenem.

6. amounts of extended-spectrum b-lactamase-producing enterobacteri- aceae esbl-e in faecal microbiota according to the metagenomic detection of blactx-m genes in esbl-e-positive samples from 10 patients for whom culture-based bacte- riological and metagenomic analyses were performed.

in this study the impact of imipenem on the faecal microbiota of patients treated with this antibiotic in french hospitals was investigated using culture-dependent and -independent techniques.materials and methodsstudy designbetween september 2012 and october 2013 17 adult patients not in the intensive care unit from seven french hospitals treated with imipenem nct01703299  were studied.

