trimethylamine n-oxide tmao p-cresyl-sulfate pcs indoxyl-sulfate is and indole-3 acetic acid iaa are key uremic toxins originating from dietary nutrients figures and .figure 3. from nutrients to toxins a metabolic pathways for generation of the uremic toxin tmao from dietary l-carnitine and choline b metabolic pathways for generation of the uremic toxins p-cresyl-sulfate and p-cresyl-glucuronide from dietary tyrosine and c metabolic pathways for generation of the uremic toxins indoxyl sulfate and indole-3-aldehyde from dietary tryptophan.

future developments may include maneuvers to modify gut processing or absorption of these nutrients or derivatives to improve ckd patient outcomes.keywords chronic kidney disease caramboxin microbiota choline carnitine tryptophan tyrosine trimethylamine n-oxide tmao p-cresyl sulfate indoxyl sulfate gut-kidney axisckd and uremic toxinsthe prevalence of chronic kidney disease ckd hovers around 5-15 of the adult population and increases with age .

the uremic toxins thus generated are excreted by the kidneys in healthy subjects but accumulate as uremic toxins in individuals with ckd.figure 4. mechanisms of toxicity for nutrient-derived uremic toxins.

the uremic toxicity of pcs was recently reviewed and a role in vascular and renal disease progression was suggested .potential therapeutic implicationsthe main message from this review is that physicians considering supplementing their patients with nutrients that may potentially yield uremic toxins should first assess the renal function of their patients.

however antibiotics cannot be promoted to lower uremic toxin levels since the expected risks far exceed the foreseeable benefits.modulating the colon microbiota of ckd patients has been suggested as a means to regulate the synthesis of key uremic toxins.

correspondence received 14 march 2017 accepted 9 may 2017 published 12 may 2017abstract in chronic kidney disease ckd accumulation of uremic toxins is associated with an increased risk of death.

for a solute to be considered a uremic toxin it should meet two criteria one related to the mechanism underlying accumulation in ckd and another related to the contribution to ckd manifestations.

however ckd frequently remains undiagnosed it has been estimated that 9 of adults over the age of 80 years have been diagnosed with ckd but around 60 have undiagnosed ckd .

the figure represents some key recently described pathways by which they may contribute to the two key consequences of ckd ckd progression and accelerated cardiovascular aging.choline and l-carnitine are metabolized to tmaocholine is an essential nutrient and quaternary ammonium salt containing the nnn-trimethylethanolammonium cation.

thus oral l-carnitine supplementation promotes the growth of l-carnitine metabolizing bacteria and may result in decreased l-carnitine absorption.

the low bioavailability depends both on transport kinetics and on l-carnitine metabolism by intestinal bacteria as the number of l-carnitine processing bacteria increases when l-carnitine is abundant .

chronic hemodialysis may lead to progressive l-carnitine deficiency through a combination of loss of l-carnitine in dialysate and decreased l-carnitine synthesis by the injured kidney .

others result from nutrient processing by gut microbiota yielding precursors of uremic toxins or uremic toxins themselves.

the european uremic toxin eutox working group database presents encyclopedic data on 130 uremic toxins .

the current review focuses on uremic toxins that are primarily derived from ingested nutrients either because the molecules are toxic in the biochemical form found in nutrients or because an intermediate metabolite is generated by the gut microbiota that is then processed to the uremic toxin.

