in addition kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes  was used to identify the altered metabolic pathways in piglets following csfv infection.resultsclinical presentations of piglets infected with csfvafter infection with csfv virulent shimen strain viremia was detected at low level 105.0 genome copiesml in piglets at dpi 3 and reached high level at about 109.0 genome copiesml at dpi 7 figure 1a.

other amino acids associated with energy production such as methionine and threonine showed a downward trend in infected piglets figure 4 and table 1. furthermore a short chain fatty acid propionic acid which is also used for energy production by gut bacteria was down- regulated during infection table 1. in addition pantothenic acid used for the synthesis of coenzyme a was found to be first increased at dpi 3 then decreased at dpi 7 table 1. taken together energy metabolism was significantly inhibited in piglets infected with the highly virulent csfv strain.altered aromatic amino acid metabolism in csfv-infected pigletsindole-containing compounds 3-indolepropionic acid ipa and indoleacetaldehyde were down-regulated at dpi 7 in infected piglets but another indole derivative indoxylsulfuric acid waselevated table 1. production of these indole derivatives is associated with gut microbiotic metabolism.

viremia was detected only in shimen-infected piglets at dpi 3 and dpi 7 a. high fever 40.5c b and leucopenia c occurred in piglets infected with csfv only.palmitoyl-l-carnitine acetylcarnitine and butyryl-l-carnitine accumulated in the serum of infected piglets figure 4 and table 1.accumulation of these compounds may indicate that energy production through fatty acid b-oxidation was perturbed.

one key route the tryptophan-kynurenine pathway was activated following csfv infection as reflected in the increased serum levels of kynurenine and its derivative quinolinic acid concomitantly with down-regulation of quinolinic acid derivatives trigonelline and niacinamide figure 4 and table 1. likewise a metabolite in another tryptophan metabolism pathway serotonin was significantly decreased during infection table 1.phenylalanine metabolism was also changed by infection.

phenylalanine derivatives including phenylacetylglycinetable 1  differential metabolites in csfv-infected piglets compared to healthy controls.vip variable importance in the projection fc fold change sm piglets infected with csfv shimen strain dpi day post infection.figure 3  heat map of differentially expressed metabolites in piglets infected with csfv.

further perturbation of phenylalanine metabolism to tyrosine was observed during csfv infection but the tyrosine derivative dopamine was unexpectedly increased.equol the gut bacteria-regulated metabolite from daidzein was observed to be elevated at dpi 3 and decreased at dpi7 following infection table 1 a change that may further reflect the perturbation of the gut microbiota induced by csfv infection.

altogether the above results clearly implicate the involvement of gut microorganims in the serum metabolite profiles in csfv-infected piglets.altered nucleotide metabolism and urea cycle in csfv-infected pigletsnucleotides cytidine and guanine were down-regulated during csfv infection as well as amp but cytosine and guanosine were found to be elevated at dpi 3 and subsequently down-regulated at dpi 7. although inosine was found to be elevated only in the early stages of csfv infection its derivatives uric acid and allantoin were significantly up-regulated throughout.in addition to the alterations in nucleotide metabolism nitrogen homeostasis was also perturbed during infection as evidenced by the decreased levels of citrulline and ornithine and the elevation of urea.

2008 2010. therefore this study provided more information about alteration of metabolites and associated pathways in piglets following csfv infection.several pathways involved in energy metabolism were found to be perturbed during csfv infection including the tca cycle fatty acid biosynthesis and b-oxidation bcaa degradation and the metabolism of other amino acids figure 5. the serum levels of citric succinic fumaric and malic acids which are tca cycle intermediates for atp production were decreased during the infection period indicating that the highly virulent csfv shimen strain can inhibit the energy-producing tca cycle.

2012 meyer and hostetter 2012. taken together altered levels of aromatic amino acids and otherdifferential metabolites in the serum of infected piglets may provide an indication of intestinal dysbiosis induced by csfv infection which will be confirmed in future studies.in summary we have analyzed the serum metabolomics of csfv-infected piglets and shown that changes in the levels of certain metabolites can separate infected animals from healthy ones.

we show that the serum metabolome obtained through multivariate statistical analysis can separate csfv-infected piglets from healthy control animals and that the altered metabolic pathways may be associated with disease development and progression of csf.experimental sectionanimal experimentsweaning piglets of 30 days old n  20 free of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus prrsv bovine viral diarrhea virus bvdv porcine circovirus type 2 pcv- 2 pseudorabies virus prv and porcine parvovirus ppv were purchased from jiangshu yongkang husbandry company jiangshu china.

the piglets were randomly divided into two groups of 10 infected and control and housed in a room of negative-pressure facilities in sinovet company jiangshu china five piglets per pen.

to reveal metabolic changes occurring following infection the unsupervised method primary component analysis pca was utilized to provide an overview of systemic variations and general clustering among all groups and the supervised method partial least- square discriminant analysis pls-da was utilized to identify differential metabolites accounting for the separation betweengroups of piglets.

of note is that one of the infected piglets did not show any clinical signs until dpi 8 while serum samples collected at dpi 3 and 7 from this animal were included in the metabolomic analysis.metabolomic analysis of serum metabolitesserum metabolomic profiles following csfv infection were characterized using uplcesi-q-tofms and pca and pls- da were applied to the data.

the first 2-component pls-da scores plot of serum metabolites showed that infected piglets were clearly distinguished from uninfected ones by the principal component t1.effect of infection duration on metabolite profile in csfv-infected pigletsdifferential metabolites obtained through uplcesi-q- tofms were selected based on the criteria vip  1 in opls-da analysis and p  0.05 in the student's t-test table 1. the changed metabolites were associated with several key metabolic pathways including tryptophan catabolism and the kynurenine pathway phenylalanine metabolism fatty acid and lipid metabolism the citric acid and urea cycles and branched- chain amino acid and nucleotide metabolism.

different stages of csfv infection had a significant impact on the metabolite profiles as reflected in both the number and fold changes of altered serum metabolites detected at dpi 3 and 7 table 1. these differential metabolites show three different time-course trends elevated-elevated elevated-decreased and decreased-decreased as depicted in the hierarchical clustering heat map figure 3.specifically a total of six saturated and unsaturated long chain fatty acids 2 acylcarnitines 3 branched-chain amino acids bcaas and their derivatives l-a-hydroxyisovaleric acid a-ketoisovaleric acid and 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid phenylalanine and its derivatives trans-cinnamic acid dopamine and 4-aminosalicylic acid tryptophan derivatives kynurenine quinolinic acid and isonicotinic acid urea uric acid allantoin p-cresol sulfate creatine creatinine and bilirubin showed an elevated trend at both dpi 3 and 7 figure 4 and table 1. three steroids cortisol 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 cholesterol sulfate also showed an upward trend during csfv infection figure 4 and table 1. conversely phospholipids 5 intermediates in the tca cycle and 2 intermediates in the urea cycle 2 nucleosides cytidine and guanine 3 quinolinic acid derivatives trigonelline niacinamide and 3-furoic acid amino acids threonine tyrosine and methionine and 23- dihydroxybenzoic acid displayed a downward trend figure 4 and table 1. guanosine cytosine glycocholic acid deoxycholic acid acetylcholine equol n1-acetylspermidine caffeine glycine phenylacetylglycine sphingosine-1-phosphate and a-d-glucose showed an increasing trend at dpi 3 but normalized to control levels by dpi 7 figure 4 and table 1.altered energy and lipid metabolism in csfv-infected pigletsthe tca cycle is important in energy production for the biochemical processes in the body.

