therefore they can neither be excreted through urine nor be efficiently eliminated by dialysis modalities 5. these retained compounds are of- ten referred to as uremic toxins because they are cyto- toxic negatively impact biological functions and exert pathological effects on immune systems kidney blood vessels and heart 21. in fact exposure to uremic toxins has emerged to explain cardiovascular events overall mortality and renal failure progression 6 32.among uremic toxins those derived from tryptophan metabolism are particularly of importance because they are associated with cardiovascular toxicity and more- over have been shown to be potent ahr ligands 33. tryptophan is an essential amino acid found in the diet and can be metabolized through different pathways 2 from endogenous metabolism and 1 from gut microbiota fermentation the indolic pathway.

since then several other studies have found correlation between the negative effects of is and ahr 3. uremic toxins have been associated with inflamma- tion and the incidence of cvd 36-38 the progression of ckd 39 40 the endothelial dysfunction 41 42 and bone diseases in ckd patients 43. some studies have further shown that these toxins are independently associ-ated with mortality 44 45.it has been suggested that high levels of protein-bound uremic toxins are a strong and independent risk factor for cardiovascular events in ckd patients 38. in particular the accumulation of indolic uremic toxins in these pa- tients may be a persistent stimulus for the activation of ahr 8 and their exposure has emerged to explain cvd in ckd patients through pro-oxidant pro-inflammato-ry pro-coagulant and pro-apoptotic effects of ahr acti- vation on the cardiovascular system 8 13. however the exact mechanisms by which higher levels of these solutes contribute to cvd and mortality have still not been elu- cidated.

however studies using cell culture and animal models provide evidence that indolic uremic toxins especially is induce ahr activation.ahr activation trough tryptophan metabolism-derived uremic toxinsuremic toxins derived from tryptophan metabolism such as is and iaa are able to activate the ahr-complex pathway through direct binding which in turn induces the nuclear translocation of ahr complex-ligand uremic toxins.

clinical practice mini-reviewnephron 20171371-7 doi 10.1159000476074aryl hydrocarbon receptor activation in chronic kidney disease role of uremic toxinsjessyca s. britoa natalia a. borgesa b marta esgalhadoad'angelo c. maglianoc christophe o. soulaged denise mafraa bacardiovascular sciences graduate program bmedical sciences graduate program and cdepartment of morphology biomedical institute federal university fluminense uff niteroi brazil duniv-lyon carmen laboratory inserm u1060 inra u1397 insa lyon universite claude bernard lyon 1 villeurbanne francereceived december 10 2016accepted after revision april 21 2017published online may 11 2017keywordsaryl hydrocarbon receptor  uremic toxins  inflammation  chronic kidney diseaseabstractthe aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr is a ligand-activated transcription factor involved in the expression of xenobiotic- metabolizing enzymes inflammatory cytokines and adhe- sion molecules.

this review discusses current data that sup- port a link between ahr activation and uremic toxins from gut microbiota in ckd.c 2017 s. karger ag baselintroductionthe aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr was discovered as a mediator of the toxic responses of halogenated aro- matic hydrocarbons and polycyclic aromatic hydrocar- bons such as 2378-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin tcdd which has carcinogenic and teratogenic effects 1. nevertheless evidence accrued in the past years has shown that ahr is not only a receptor for xenobiotics but it can be activated by several endogenous ligands 2. in this context tryptophan metabolism-derived uremic tox- ins such as indoxyl sulfate is indole-3-acetic acid iaa and indoxyl-b-d glucuronide idg are recog- nized as endogenous ahr ligands 3 4 and thus can trig- ger ahr activation.uremic toxins cannot be excreted in urine in chronic kidney disease ckd patients or efficiently eliminated by common dialysis modalities thus they accumulatee-mail c 2017 s. karger ag baseldr.

527 itaipu - niteroi rj 24342-780 brazilail jessyca 5. as a result tryptophan metabolism-derived uremic toxins are able to activate ahr and therefore chronical- ly stimulate oxidative stress and inflammation 4. more- over they also contribute to kidney renal damage and cardiovascular disease cvd which is the major cause of death in these patients particularly for those on dialy- sis 6 7. thus uremic toxins have been suggested as a potential missing link between ckd and cvd once higher cardiovascular risk in these patients cannot be suf- ficiently explained by classic factors.

in this context ahr activation by uremic toxins may be linked to these com- plications in ckd 8 9.taking into account the new evidence about ahr and the importance of understanding the impact of ahr acti- vation in ckd patients this review aims to discuss how uremic toxins can play a role in the modulation of inflam- mation and oxidative stress via ahr activation.aryl hydrocarbon receptorahr is a ligand-activated transcription factor involved in the biological detoxification of ligands.

uremic toxins such as indoxyl sulfate and indole acetic acid are derived from tryptophan fermentation by gut microbiota they accumulate in patients with chronic kidney disease ckd on haemodialysis and have recently emerged as potent ligands of ahr.

this ob- servation has considerable physiological relevance due to the presence of high concentrations of these toxins in ckd patients and the association of ahr with vascular disease 2 3.figure 1 illustrates the mechanism of ahr activation by uremic toxins.uremic toxins derived from tryptophan metabolismunder normal conditions the human gut microbiota performs several activities essential to the body 20-22. in contrast its imbalance observed in numerous diseases such as ckd 23-26 can cause a cascade of metabolicfig.

1. putative mechanism of aryl hydrocar- bon receptor ahr activation by uremic toxins derived from tryptophan metabolism.

like others ahr agonists the uremic toxins from tryptophan metabolism enters in the cell through an or- ganic anion transporter oat and binds to ahr complex which is activated and then translocated into the nucleus.

in the nucleus uremic toxin-ahr complex dissociates from the stabilizer proteins complex to be able to form a heterodimeric complex with aryl hy- drocarbon nuclear translocator arnt and therefore regulate several genes involved in the xenobiotic metabolism and inflamma- tion response.

cyp1a1 cytochrome p450 family 1 member 1a cyp1a2 cytochrome p450 family 1 member 2a cyp1b1 cyto- chrome p450 family 1 sub family b cox-2 cyclooxygenase-2 is indoxyl sulfate iaa indole-3-acetic acid tcdd 2378-tetra- chlorodibenzo-p-dioxin lps lipopolysac- charide.abnormalities including uremic toxin production 27. these changes in the gut microbiota profile may be re- lated to the increased influx of urea from the bloodstream to the intestinal lumen which favours the increase in cer- tain bacterial species that can produce several compounds through protein metabolism such as is iaa idg and p-cresyl sulfate 21 25 28-31. in ckd patients these compounds tend to accumulate in the body fluids once they are protein-bound.

49 demonstrated that is downregulated the renal expression of factor 2-re- lated erythroid nuclear factor 2 which control antioxi- dant and anti-inflammatory cellular responses through the activation of nf-kb followed by the downregulation of haeme oxygenase-1 and nadphquinone oxidore- ductase 1 thereby increasing the production of ros.although these results in ckd patients show an asso- ciation between indolic uremic toxins and pro-inflamma- torypro-oxidant effects and cvd to the best of our knowledge there have been no studies showing the direct role of ahr in ckd patients.

the au- thors also observed that antagonists ameliorated the se- nescence-related changes 58.conclusionon the basis of these findings in the literature it can be concluded that the uremic toxins-ahr pathway exerts several negative effects most of which are related to ckd with consequences in the cardiovascular system.

