research highlights nature reviews microbiology  published online 12 may 2017in briefbacterial phy si ologyhsp90 is the hot guy for shewanella oneidensischaperones are essential for the maintenance of cellular protein homeostasis and although heat shock protein 90 hsp90 isone of the best-characterized chaperones in eukaryotes its role in bacteria has remained elusive.

show that the composition of the gut microbiota is a key factor as the microbiota protects the host against colonization by pathogens.

the neonatal gut microbiota is less diverse and lacks two taxa that are dominant in older intestines members of the orders clostridiales and bacteroidales.

administration of members of the clostridiales but not bacteroidales protected germ-free adult mice that were colonized with neonatal microbiota from infections whereas in absence of members of the clostridiales both adults and neonates became susceptible.

the authors hypothesize that oxygen consumption by aerobic or facultative anaerobic bacteria inthe gut could promote colonization by strict anaerobes such as clostridiales which in turn could grant protection from enteric pathogens during the first days of life.original article kim y. g. sakamoto k. et al.

showed that streptococcus parasanguinis uses the p. aeruginosa-derived exopolysaccharide alginate to promote biofilm formation and colonization of the lungs thereby interfering with p. aeruginosa pathogenesis.although the streptococcal adhesin bapa1 is necessary for alginate-dependent biofilm formation in vitro it is dispensable in vivo in which fimbria-associated adhesion protein fap1 can also contribute to colonization.

as hsp90 is highly conserved in bacteria the authors speculate that it might have a similar role in other bacteria.

by screening a plasmid library they identified its first client as tils a protein that is involved in trna maturation.

cell rep. 19 680-687 2017microbiotaclostridia protect from gut infections in early lifeneonates are highly susceptible to intestinal infections this has been generally ascribed to the immaturity of the immunesystem but other factors might contribute.

using a dual species biofilm modelscoffield et al.

a commensal streptococcus hijacks a pseudomonas aeruginosa exopolysaccharide to promote biofilm formation.

