quail endured a 5-days stress period from days 17 to 21 to help revealing the potentially beneficial effect of the probiotic.as expected sti quail were less fearful compared to the lti quail p  0.05. probiotic supplementation had no effect on most measures of emotional reactivity p  0.05 except in the tonic immobility test where supplemented sti quail had lower immobility duration p  0.0001. regarding the memory test the two lines had similar performances.

quail with the higher numbers of induction or duration were considered to be the most fearful.open-field testan open-field test was also performed to test emotional reactivity in japanese quail .

to complete the test animals had to collect 8 mealworms in 8 cups.the 8 cups were placed in the arena used for the open-field test .

the test was carried out over 3 successive days for each 4 groups from 34 to 36 days of age.during the week prior to the test quail learnt to eat mealworms for 4 days.

for the last three days of the week animals were placed four by four in the box test with one worm in each of the 8 cups in order to limit bias due to a new location.the feed pellets in the home cages were removed at least 3 h before the test for the quail to be hungry.

the measures made during the test were the duration to complete the test the succession of cups visited and the number of errors done.

the time spent in the peripheral area tended to be higher in sti quail compared to lti quail p  0.061 and there was no significant effect of the probiotic.during the second open-field test there was no interaction between the line and the treatment effects on the total distance travelled or on the time spent in the peripheral area of the arena p  0.05. the total distance was higher for the sti quail compared to the lti quail p  0.0001. the time spent in the peripheral area was also higher in sti compared to lti p  0.018 and it tended to be lower in theprobiotic quail compared to the control ones p  0.090.neither affected by the day nor the line the treatment effects nor any interactions between these variables p  0.05 number of vis- its  21.2 - 0.7.the mean rate of immediate errors for the three days of test was not affected either by the line by the treatment or by the interaction between these two variables p  0.05 .

similarly vagotomy abolished the anxiolytic effect of a chronic consumption of a strain of lactobacillus rhamnosus in the elevated plus maze test and open-field test in balbc mice .these results raise the question of the importance of host genotypeand its sensitivity to changes in the gut microbiota postulated to occur through p. acidilactici supplementation .

they showed that a strain of bifidobacterium breve led to lower anxiety in the elevated plus maze test but had no effect in the open field test whereas the results were the other way round when they used a strain of b. longum.

therefore it is important to note that the animal model the genetic line the bacterial strain and the behavioural test can conduct todifferent effects of probiotic on emotional measures.influence of the probiotic on memoryin the memory test the global rates of errors were not different between the three days.

this observation suggested that the test would enable to test short-term memory which is independent between days.

emotional reactivity was measured in a tonic immobility test d6 and 7 of age and two open-field tests d13-15 d22-24.

memory was measured in a test rewarded with mealworms where quail had to remember the cups previously visited d34-36.

it has been shown that this procedure of negative stimulation induces a state of chronic stress in japanese quail .behavioural testsbefore each test animals belonging to a same cage were put together in a pre-test cage l  65 x w  40 x h  32 cm for a minimum of 15 min.

this precaution minimized fear reactions while taking chicks from the large cages.tonic immobility testthe tonic immobility test was performed to evaluate emotional reactivity in japanese quail .

