using a concentration of romidepsin which does not adversely affect cell viability or morphology but induces hyperacetylation 20 nm we showed that romidepsin significantly increases the sh-sy5y cell death induced by the cyto- toxin 6-ohda which has been shown to induce sh-sy5y cell death through increasing reactive oxygen species these data sug- gest that it may be possible for the therapeutic dose of romidepsin to be lowered when used as an add-on pharmacotherapy in com- bination therapies for neuroblastoma.finally we examined the effects of romidepsin in mycn ampli- fied human neuroblastoma cell lines imr-32 and sk-n-be as mycn amplification is the primary and most important prognos- tic marker of poor survival in neuroblastoma mycn amplified neuroblastoma cell lines were significantly more sensitive to the cytotoxic effects of romidempsin than the non-mycn amplified sh-sy5y cells.

20 nm and 40 nm romidepsin significantly increased the levels of pach3 relative to control which was mea- sured by densitometric quantification of pach3 protein levels relative to -actin loading control a. immunocytochem- istry was used to confirm these findings and romidepsin treatment resulted in a significant increase in the levels of pach3 relative to control as quantified by densitometry b. taken together these results suggest that romidepsin leads to increases in histones in acetylation in sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells.the cytotoxic effects of romidepsin on sh-sy5y cells are caspase-dependentto determine whether romidepsin induces apoptosis in sh- sy5y cells cultures were co-treated with a broad-spectrum caspase-3 inhibitor which inhibits to the pro-apoptotic caspase-3 that functions upstream of other pro-apoptotic caspases caspase-6 and caspase-7 an mtt assay revealed that caspase-3 inhibi- tion significantly inhibited romidepsin-induced cell death in the sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells at 4 div a. we next aimed to investigate whether the cytotoxic dose of romidepsin could be reduced by combination therapy in which neuroblastoma cells are exposed to another cytotoxic agent.

4. effects of romidepsin in mycn-amplified and non-amplified neuroblastoma cells.mtt assay of romidepsin-treated imr-32 and sk-n-be2 cells treated daily for 4 div with 0 40 or 100 nm of romidepsin  p  0.001 vs control anova with post-hoc tukey's test n  4. b real-time pcr of caspase-3 mrna in all three neuroblastoma cells lines treated for 24 h with 40 nm romidempsin  p  0.05 vs control student's t-test n  4. c graphical representation of real-time pcr showing the ratio of bax to bcl2 mrna in all three cells lines treated for 24 h with 40 nm romidempsin n  4.the potential of romidepsin for the treatment of neuroblastoma we examined the cytotoxic effects of romidepsin in human neurob- lastoma cell lines.

neuroscience letters 653 2017 12-18research articleromidepsin induces caspase-dependent cell death in human neuroblastoma cellsshane v. hegartykatie l. toghereimear o'learyfranziska solgeraideen m. sullivangerard w. o'keeffea department of anatomy and neuroscience western gateway building university college cork ucc cork irelandb apc microbiome institute ucc cork irelandc infant centre cork university maternity hospital and ucc cork irelandh i g h l i g h t sromidepsin is an fda-approved small molecule drug and a selective hdac12 inhibitor.romidepsinpotentlyinducescaspase-dependent cell death in human neuroblastoma cells.mycn-amplifiedneuroblas-toma cells are more sensitive to romidepsin-induced death.the cytotoxic dose of romidepsincan be lowered by combination with other cytotoxins.romidepsin may be a promisingmono-combination- chemothera- peutic for neuroblastoma.g r a p h i c a la b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 27 january 2017received in revised form 2 may 2017 accepted 12 may 2017available online 12 may 2017keywords romidepsin neuroblastoma cell deathepigenetic regulation chemotherapeutic drugneuroblastoma is the most common extracranial pediatric solid tumor arising from the embryonic sympathoadrenal lineage of the neural crest and is responsible for 15 of childhood cancer deaths.

these concentrations were selected based on ic50 values of romidepsin being in the nanomolar range 36 and 47 nm for hdac1 and hdac2 respectively and that romidepsin has been shown to reduce viability at 10 nm in the hl-60 cell line and at 500 nm in the hp100 cell line an mtt assay revealed that romidepsin had no effect on cell viabil- ity at concentrations 40 nm when compared to control a but significantly reduced cell viability at concentrations 100 nm a. phase contrast microscopy confirmed that romidepsin treatment led to a decrease in cell number and an increase in dead non-adherent cells b. we further examined the effects of the non-cytotoxic doses of romidepsin on cellular morphology by immunostaining for -actin.

to provide proof of principle for this sh-sy5y cells were co-treated with 6-ohda which is a potent cytotoxin that has been shown to induce sh-sy5y cell death through increasing reactive oxygen species sh-sy5y cells were treated with 15 um of 6-ohda with or without 20 nm of romidepsin a concentration which does not adversely affect cell viability or morphology but induces hyperacetylation for 24 h at which time ldh assays were performed to assess cell death.

similarly romidepsin has been shown to induce apoptosis at 10 nm in the hl-60 cell line and at 500 nm in the hp100 cell line taken together these results suggest that romidepsin induces caspase-dependent apoptosis in neuroblastoma cells.we next sought to determine if the cytotoxic dose of romidepsin in neuroblastoma cells could be reduced by combination therapy with another cytotoxic agent.

the fluorescence intensity of individual cells stained for pach3 was measured using image j and the relative fluorescence intensity was calculated as the intensity of each individual cell after subtraction of the background noise.measurement of cellular morphologyneurite growth analysis as a proxy measure differentiation of sh-sy5y cells was performed as previously described using the using the formula neurite length  a t ti2 where a is the number of times the neurite intersects the grid lines and t is the distance between the gridlines on the magnified image.western blottingwestern blotting was carried out as described cells were lysed in ripa buffer for 1 h on ice and insoluble debris was removed by centrifugation.

where indicated cells were treated with 5-5000 nm of romidepsin medchem express andor 1 ugml caspase-3 inhibitor calbiochem or with 15 um 6-hydroxydopamine 6-ohda sigma for 24 h or daily for 4 days in vitro div.cell viability and cell death assessmentthiazolyl blue tetrazolium bromide mtt assays were per- formed to assess cell viability mtt was added to cells at a concentration of 0.5 mgml.

1. romidepsin induces cell death of human sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells.a mtt assay with b representative photomicrographs of romidepsin-treated sh-sy5y cells treated daily for 4 div with 0-500 nm of romidepsin  p  0.001 anova with post-hoc tukey's test number of repititions n  4. c graph with d representative photomicrographs green  -actin showing the average total neurite length of cells in the control or 40 nm romidepsin group  p  0.01 20 images analysed per group per experiment n  3. scale bar  50 um.fig.

in support of our findings hdac inhibitors have been shown to induce cell death in a number of neuroblastoma cell lines we subsequently confirmed the ability of romidepsin to induce hyperacetylation of histone h3 in the sh-sy5y cells which was most likely due to selective inhibition of hdac1 and hdac2.

indeed epigenetic dysregulation has been reported to con- tribute to a cancer phenotype to determine the cellular mechanisms through which romidepsin induced sh-sy5y cell death we next showed that romidepsin-induced cell death in sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cells was caspase-dependent.

outliers were removed prior to analysis if grubb's test p  0.05. results were expressed as means with sem and deemed significant when p  0.05.resultsromidepsin induces cell death of human sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cellswe first examined the effects of romidepsin using human sh- sy5y neuroblastoma cells which were treated with 5-500 nm of romidepsin daily for 4 div.

inter- estingly 20 nm romidepsin significantly enhanced the cytotoxic effects of 6-ohda b. these data suggest that it may be pos- sible for the therapeutic dose of romidepsin to be lowered when used as an add-on pharmacotherapy in combination therapy.romidempsin exerts cytotoxic effects in mycn-amplified neuroblastoma cellsas sh-sy5y cells express wild-type p53 and are not mycn amplified we carried out additional experiments in imr-32 mycn-amplified p53 wild-type and sk-n-be2 mycn- amplified p53 mutant human neuroblastoma cell lines.

indeed romidempsin doses of 40 nm and 100 nm significantly reduced imr-32 and sk-n-be cell via- bility a. real-time pcr revealed that 40 nm romidempsin treatment significantly increased the expression levels of caspase- 3 mrna b and increased the ratio of bax mrna to bcl2 mrna in all the neuroblastoma cell lines tested c. these data show that romidemspin is a potent cytotoxin that leads to pro-apoptotic transcriptional changes in mycn-amplified and non- amplified human neuroblastoma cells.discussionthe selective inhibitor of hdac1 and hdac2 romidepsin is an fda-approved chemotherapeutic drug that is being useddeveloped as a monotherapy or combination therapy for a number of cancers to investigatefig.

