after rickettsia and francisella were removed the remaining microbiome association with location was low but statistically significant anosim unweighted unifrac r  0.20 p  0.01 anosim weighted unifrac r  0.28 p  0.01. procrustes analysis also demonstrated that the beta diversity of microbiomes in which rickettsia and francisella were removed had a different association with location than rickettsia and francisella endosymbionts error m 2  0.91 p  0.01. isolation by distance ibd analysis using unweighted unifrac distances that incorporatedtick sex1009080706050403020other oxalobacteraceae planococcaceae acetobacteraceae curtobacterium methylobacterium methylocystaceae hymenobacter sphingomonas francisella rickettsia100mfsexlocationall members of the microbiome revealed little geographic ibd mantel test unweighted unifrac r  0.09 p  0.01. however a pattern of ibd was significant after excluding rickettsia and francisella mantel test unweighted unifrac r  0.14 p  0.01. unlike weighted unifrac unweighted unifrac distances only incorporate the presence or absence of microbial taxa and to not take into account the abundance of the particular taxa.this allowed us to focus on the taxonomic differences among locations rather than the abundance differences of particular taxa.

surveys of this tick have shown its ability to vector human pathogens such as francisella tularensis tularemia coxiella burnetii q fever anaplasma phagocytophilum human granulocytic anaplasmosisehrlichia chaffeensis human monocytic ehrlichiosis rickettsia rickettsii rocky mountain spotted fever rmsf and rickettsia philipii 364d hereafter r. philipii as well as the non-pathogenic spotted fever group rickettsia r. rhipicephali       .

when only rickettsia and francisella were assessed for association with location anosim results were not statistically significant anosim unweighted unifrac r  -0.06 p  0.92 anosim weighted unifrac r  0.02 p  0.13. however in order to determine if location influenced the non-dominant species separately from the dominant rickettsia and francisella endosymbionts rickettsia and francisella were removed from the data and the analysis was repeated.

early studies seeking to understand the epidemiology of rmsf in the bitterroot valley in montana demonstrated that the non-pathogenic tick endosymbiont rickettsia peacockii found on the east side of the valley and originally called the east side agent colonized the ovaries of d. andersoni ticks and excluded pathogenic rickettsia rickettsii more prevalent on the west side of the valley from infecting the ovaries and being transmitted to eggs .

correlations between non- rickettsia non-francisella genera in the tick microbiomes and the rickettsia to francisella ratios high even or low was determined via a kruskal-wallis h test.

in order to assess whether the tick microbiomes were predictive of infection with spotted fever group rickettsia as determined by real-time pcr of the rompa gene and igr sequences a random forests supervised learning analysis using 1000 trees and 10x cross validation was performed on the otuabescondidocreek lopezcanyon penasquitoscanyon missiontrailsescondidocreek lopezcanyon penasquitoscanyon missiontrailsotugenushpescondido creekmission trailspenasquitos cynlopez cynnotes.a kruskal-wallis h value.b bonferroni correction bonferroni correction is used to reduce the chances of obtaining false-positive results type i errors when multiple pair wise tests are performed on a single set of data because the probability of identifying at least one significant result due to chance increases as more hypotheses are tested.c average number of otu occurrences per sample.dataset minus rickettsiaceae and rickettsia otus.

although the quantitative 16s rrna gene sequence data of fle and rickettsia co-infection in this study do not directly measure interference between the organisms they are consistent with interference between fle and rickettsias and require further experimental studies for confirmation.the mechanisms by which rickettsia and francisella interfere with each other in co- infections are not known and there can be many kinds of interaction direct or indirect between microbes and the tick host which can be influenced by the infection behavior of the different bacterial species.

whether fles can be shown to inhibit rickettsia co-infection in the laboratory the mechanisms for their interaction and whether they could be propagated through a tick population as a means to render ticks unable to vector pathogenic rickettsia are intriguing prospects that warrant further investigation.

demonstrated pathogenicity of a francisella endosymbiont derived from dermacentor andersoni stiles ticks previously categorized as wolbachia persica  to guinea pigs and hamsters via injection most fles are not transmitted by tick bites and are considered non-pathogenic   .interestingly the inability of different endosymbiotic rickettsia species to co-infect the same organ in the same tick called ''interference'' has been demonstrated although the exact mechanisms are unknown.

use of sourcetracker for comparison of tick and skin microbiomes is a novel approach and interestingly generalized linear models showed that ticks with canine skin microbiome components were less likely to be infected with ricketssia which is consistent with r. rhipicephali and r. philipii being endosymbionts without a canine host.conclusionsthe results of this study suggest that fle and rickettsia endosymbionts partially exclude each other in co-infections of the same d. occidentalis tick.

we also hypothesized that differences among tick microbiomes would be associated with different geographic locations and that possible reservoirs of tick pathogens could be foundby analyzing ticks for the host origin of prior blood meals or by comparing the tick microbiomes to the skin microbiomes of potential host species.

rickettsia philipii was originally described as an unclassified rickettsia found by bell in d. occidentalis from california .

it also had 99 identity to other rickettsia however e values were 100x higher to these other rickettsia sequences.

all other rickettsia otus comprised less than 0.09 of total rickettsia otus.

although there was no significant difference between the mean number of rickettsia and francisella sequences in male versus female ticks student's t test p  0.36 0.06 respectively rickettsia and1009080706050403020other hymenobacter methylobacterium sphingomonas francisella rickettsia100locationfrancisella endosymbionts comprised a greater percentage of the microbiome of female ticks than male ticks 74.9 and 60.1 respectively student's t test p  0.02 .escondido canyon had lower average alpha diversity than lopez and penasquitos canyons p 0.05 .

