articletracing the enterococci from paleozoic origins to the hospitalgraphical abstracthighlightsd emergence of enterococci as hospital pathogens was foreordained by paleozoic eventsd commensal enterococci emerged from ancestors adapted to marine hosts and environmentsd terrestrialization selected for a hardened cell wall leading to antibiotic resistanced enterococcal speciation energy source driven parallels host radiation or extinctionauthorsfranc ois lebreton abigail l. manson jose t. saavedra timothy j. straub ashlee m. earl michael s. gilmorecorrespondence a.m.e. m.s.g.in briefwhy among the vast diversity of gut microbiota have enterococci become so well adapted to the modern hospital environmentlebreton et al.

enterococci were found more tolerant than the outgroup to both conditions p  0.05 e both e. faecalis strains exhibited the greatest resistance to desiccation p  0.031. e. faecium desiccation resistance was more typical of the level intrinsic to the enterococci but species of the e. faecium group were found to be the most starvation tolerant p  0.017. in contrast the e. pallens group with large genomes showed the least tolerance for desiccation or starva- tion suggesting that they may derive from hosts that inhabit ecologies where regular desiccation and starvation are less selective such as wet coastal margins.energy source drives enterococcal speciationto infer changes in the host gut environment that may have driven the diversification of enterococci into various species we performed a flux analysis  of genes gained and lost at each node of speciation a. diversificationat each node is associated with an average gain of 618 -304 and loss of 135 -103 genes with notable exceptions.

noticeably subsequent radiations of enterococcal species occur in two distinct waves separated by a clear gap between ani values of 69 and 73  a and 5b.to generate a model on the origins of enterococci that recon- ciles this molecular clock estimation with the fossil record of their hosts and current distribution we took the following into consid- eration 1 enterococci are common among terrestrial life and comparatively rare in aquatic animals which suggests that life on land fostered their proliferation and diversification and 2 desiccation and starvation resistance which distinguish the enterococci from more commonly marine ancestral vagococcus and carnobacterium appear to be a trait common to the original enterococcus and now shared by members of both branches from the initial bifurcation of species within the genus.

these ten enterococcus-unique genes do not spatially cluster on the chromosome.unique properties that distinguish enterococci from other microbes may also stem from combinations of unusual genesfigure 1. genome-based phylogeny of the enterococcus genusdistribution of enterococcus species genome sizes color-coded by phylogenetic group.phylogenomic tree of enterococcus and outgroup species gray based on alignment of 526 single copy core genes.

the data collectively indicate that traits that now facilitate enterococcal survival and transmission in hos- pitals were of selective advantage early in the paleozoic era and support a model for the origin of the enterococci around the time of terrestrialization of their animal hosts.cell 169 849-861 may 18 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. 849legend on next pageresultsphylogeny of enterococci and host association an existing enterococcus 16s rdna-based phylogeny was used to select representative species for comparative genome anal- ysis.

this implies that survival in a fundamentally different environment requiring cell wall alter- ations and potentially prone to environmental stress selected for the emergence of the enterococcus genus from the ancestor shared with vagococcus.to identify phenotypes that distinguish enterococci from ancestral lineages growth of all enterococci and outgroup mem- bers was assessed under 1344 individual growth conditions biolog figure s2e.

statistical significance was evaluated by fisher's exact test.see also figure s1 and tables s1 and s6.figure 2. genetic and phenotypic differences from outgroup speciesubiquity of 1037 enterococcus core genes in eubacteria blastx against 100 representative eubacterial genomes table s4 tab 2 in quintiles.genera of microbes harboring genes seldom found outside of enterococci first quintile 1-20 genera ranked by the number of first quintile genes shared.top venn diagram showing shared and unique genes in enterococcus core genome and vagococcus lutrae lbd1.

enterococci serve as collection and distribution points for mobile elements transmitting a variety of antibiotic resis- tances to both gram-positive and gram-negative species   including the transmission of vancomycin resistance to methicillin-resistant strains of staphylococcus aureus  .most mdr enterococci belong to highly hospital-adapted lin- eages .

we further compared traits found in all enterococci to those in commensal and multidrug resistant enterococci most commonly associated with humans.

two phylogenetically distant species e. columbae and e. saccharo- lyticus appear to have subsequently lost sodium azide resis- tance figure s2g raising the possibility that additional enterococcal species may be missed when using bile esculin azide agar for isolation.all tested enterococci have global resistance to environmental stresses similar to those that now occur in modern hospitals including to b-lactam antibiotics as well as disinfectants  d prompting us to test enterococci and outgroups for sur- vival to desiccation and starvation conditions occurring in the hospital infection cycle.

placing the earliest origin of enterococci to coincide with the most conservative estimate of terrestrialization 425 mya based on fossil records requires leftward compression in molec- ular clock estimation that is still within its estimated error c.discussionthe 16s rdna-based tree of life shows that enterococci emerged from among vagococcus-like progenitors which arose from the carnobacteriaceae figure s1b.

placing the origin of the enterococci at about the time of animal terrestrialization has the effect of making diver- sification of enterococci highly congruent with the diversifica- tion of their terrestrial hosts  a prospect strongly supported by the findings of gene flux analysis  and .

enterococci are among the most persistent microbes of land animal excreta   and are well equipped to deal with that challenge e.although difficult to prove the cumulative data are consistent with a model proposing the emergence of enterococci from ancestors well-suited to existence in food webs in sediments  including those of icy marine environments and in marine animal guts into which bile and other host factors that shape the community are secreted.

a trait unique among enterococci gained by e. faecalis after the split with m. plutonius is the ability to metabolize uric acid c a plentiful source of carbon and nitrogen in the gut of insects and other uricotelic animals  figures s4b and s4c.

faecalis a node 4 in green genes gained since the divergence from the last common ancestor shared with m. plutonius a node 3 in black genes shared by diverse enterococci species.gut colonization of galleria mellonella larvae.

