since transplantation of lean gut microbiota to obese mice can rescue the obese phenotype  strategies to manipulate the composition of the gut microbiota have gained considerable importance for metabolic pathologies management.

p  0.05 and  p  0.01 vs. frd.effects of frd and l. kefiri administration on gut microbiota compositionto study the effects of diet and probiotic administration on gut microbiota structure we analyzed the fecal bacterial composition by pcr-dgge and qpcr.

additionally lactobacillus murinus was also more abundant in frd-lk and in ctr-lk p  0.05 than their counterparts without probiotic administration figure b. these changes in the microbiota composition in lk-treated mice could suggest the presence of a healthier microbiota which could be related to the beneficial metabolic changes found in them.abfrd0.00741098frdnsfrdnsfrdnsctr frd ctr-lk frd-lk7654b.

however further studies are needed to determine the association between changes in microbiota composition caused by l. kefiri administration and the metabolic improvements found in our model.conclusionsin summary this work showed as expected that a fructose-rich diet induced endocrine-metabolic alterations in mice that resemble those found in human ms. these alterations could be partially caused by a dysbiosis induced by frd however more studies about effects of fructose intake ongut microbiota are needed.

a.g. received 27 february 2017 accepted 3 may 2017 published 17 may 2017abstract modern lifestyle and diets have been associated with metabolic disorders and an imbalance in the normal gut microbiota.

l. kefiri supplementation generated an impact on gut microbiota composition changing bacteroidetes and firmicutes profiles.

overall our results indicate that the administration of probiotics prevents the deleterious effects of frd intake and should therefore be promoted to improve metabolic disorders.keywords gut microbiota fructose-rich diet adipose tissue probioticsintroductionobesity has been defined by the world health organization as an adipose tissue at excess that could be harmful to the organism predisposing to pathologies such as type ii diabetes mellitus cardiovascular disease dyslipidemias fatty liver disease and certain cancers.

partly these metabolic disorders are a consequence of fructose-induced hepatic de novo lipogenesis and the resulting increase in at fatty acid uptake .gut microbiota is composed of 1 to 10 trillion microorganisms mainly bacteria among which approximately 90 belong to the bacteroidetes firmicutes actinobacteria and proteobacteria phyla .

environmental factors such as diet treatment with antibiotics and exercise can modulate gut microbiota composition.

obesity has been associated with gut microbiota dysbiosis contributing to the establishment of characteristic alterations related to obesity.

it is largely accepted that probiotics are involved in the maintenance of healthy gut microbiota and for this reason their use has emerged as a potential therapy against ms and obesity .kefir is a food product obtained by fermentation of milk with kefir grains.

these grains are constituted by a complex symbiotic microbiota mainly of yeast lactic acid and acetic acid bacteria confined in a matrix of polysaccharides and proteins .

in this assay the standard curve ranged between 50 and 12500 pgml with intra- and inter-assay variation coefficients of 4-6 and 5-8 respectively.microbiota analysis in fecesfecal samples were collected at the end of the experimental protocol and were stored at -80 c prior to use for microbiota analysis.

dna extraction was performed using the accuprep stool dna extraction kit bioneer daejeon korea according to the manufacturer's instructions.quantitative pcr of microbiota populationsquantification of bacterial populations was carried out using primers synthesized by genbiotech buenos aires argentina.

no differences were found in l. acidophilus group when both variables were analyzed.figure 5. qualitative analysis of fecal microbiota profile.

