a 20-year observational study of patients with uncomplicated hepatic steatosis concluded that 1.2 of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease patients developed cirrhosis compared to 22 of alcoholic fatty liver disease patients85.clinical presentationalcohol withdrawal can be a life-threatening when patients develop delirium tremens seizures coma and cardiac arrest.

based on a systematic review there is no difference in early alcohol use in patients transplanted for alcoholic liver disease vs non-alcoholic liver disease at 6 mo 4 vs 5 and 12 mo 17 vs 16. at 7 years post-olt 32 of the patients with alcoholic liver disease reports using alcohol.

pre-specified exploratory analysis of 101 patients  age 47 showed an improved 3-mo survival in the elad group compared to the control group 81.4 vs 67.2. when analyzed for patients less than 50 years old creat- inine  1.3 mgdl bilirubin  16 mgdl and inr  2.5most of the understanding of alcoholic liver disease pathogenesis stem from animal models of alcoholic liver disease recreated via ad libitum or intragastric ethanol feeding.

although comparable rates of any alcohol use are reported in patients transplanted for alcoholic liver disease and non-alcoholic liver disease the risk of heavy drinking appears much higher in alcoholic liver disease patients158.

mechanisms of the synergistic hepatotoxic effects of chronic alcohol abuse in patients with hepatitis c include altered cell-mediated immunity increased oxidative stress increase viral replication hepatic steatosis and inflammatory response from iron accumulation62.studies on viral hepatitis and chronic heavy alcohol use are mostly in patients with hepatitis c. mecha- nisms of pathogenesis can also be applied to hepatitis b patients.

the innate immunity is impaired in patients with progressive liver dysfunction contributing to multi-organ failure seen in patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis.

alcohol induced liver fibrosis in patients with hepatitis c is dose-dependent and exhibited patients who ingest 30-40 g daily68.

elevation of liver enzymes induced by alcohol can cause overtreatment of patients with chronic hepatitis b. it has been published that only 50 of patients with aminotransferase elevation was caused by immune active chronic hepatitis b among other etiologies73.

ani is not as reliable in cirrhotic patients with model of end-stage liver disease meld score  20 as well in patients with concomitant alcoholic and nash disease84.

there is a wide variation among post-liver transplant alcohol relapse rates reported in the literature ranging from 20 to 50. heavy drinking rates range from 10 to 20159. the duration of pre-transplant abstinence does not appear to correlate with post- transplant survival160 however studies for long term follow-up of the graft in patients transplanted for alcoholic hepatitis with continued alcohol abuse requires further investigation.mathurin et al161 reports the results of a multicentereuropean trial which carefully selected corticosteroid refractory ah patients whom were deemed to have a low risk of recividism after liver transplantation.

exploration of maximal medical management with microbiota modification immune modulation liver regenerative factors farnesoid x receptors fxrs caspase inhibitors and extracorporeal liver assist device elad may be promising for patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis who do not have other options.

underlying chronic liver disease may contribute to the development of acute-on-chronic presentation in ah.hepatitis b and c with alcoholic liver diseasethe prevalence of hepatitis c patients with alcoholism is approximately 16 compared to the 1.5-2 pre- valence in the general population6364.

iron deposition is found in  50 patients with chronic hepatitis c or heavy alcohol consumption which is not typically seen in hepatitis b74.hemochromatosis with alcoholic liver diseasehepcidin is a peptide produced in the liver for delivery of iron through the ferroportin transporter.

fifty percent of patients with hereditary hemochromatosis develop fibrosis with a 200-fold risk of hepatocellular carcinoma development78.nash and alcoholic liver diseasepatients with risk factors for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis nash are identified with insulin resistance obesity hyperlipidemia and metabolic syndrome in the setting of minimal alcohol use compared to alcoholic liver disease patients79.

limitations to the study include small sample size n  9 and short follow-up period median 765 d162.a three-year pilot by lee examined 2 groups of patients selected to receive a liver transplant severe alcoholic hepatitis as the first episode of liver decom- pensation vs alcoholic cirrhotics with  6 mo of abstinence.

