on the day of fmt treatment a duodenal tube istable 3experiences of the ndfb with donor screening21first faeces screening42.9 d. fragilis 4.8 d. fragilis and b. hominis4.8 d. fragilis and c. jejuni 4.8 e. histolytica11 52.310 6.110serum screeningnone0 010 6.110repeated faeces screening20 b. hominis 10 esbl e. coli 30 donor withdrawalafter 0 2 and 6 monthstemporarily excluded acute diarrhoea for 3 months rotavirus carriership for 2 weeks6 604 2.4a some volunteers have multiple exclusion criteria.b 1 minus cumulative proportion of excluded donors.

of gastroenterology leiden university medical center leiden the netherlandsa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 5 march 2017 received in revised form 12 may 2017accepted 13 may 2017available online 19 may 2017 editor professor l. leibovicikeywords clostridium difficilefaecal microbiota transferfaecal microbiota transplantation faeces bankstool banka b s t r a c t background since 2013 several stool banks have been developed following publications reporting on clinical success of 'faecal microbiota transplantation' fmt for recurrent clostridium difficile infections cdi.

standard operation procedures for donor recruitment donor selection donor screening and production storage and distribution of frozen faecal suspensions for fmt were formulated.results and discussion our experience summarized in this review addresses current donor recruitment and screening preparation of the faecal suspension transfer of the faecal microbiota suspension and the experiences and follow-up of the patients treated with donor faeces from the ndfb.

large-scale implementation of fmt in daily clinical practice is hampered by lack of easily available donor faeces and safety concerns.

a centralized stool bank can overcome these hurdles.aim and structure of a non-profit stool bankthe overall and primary aim of a stool bank is to provide on a international or regional level ready to use high-quality donor faeces solutions to treat patients with recurrent or refractory cdi.

therefore the stool bank should preferably be facilitated by a well- equipped biobank to store an aliquot of the donor faeces and samples of all delivered faecal suspensions to guarantee trace- ability in case of adverse events.

a stool bank working group should consist of experts in the fields of microbiology infectious diseases gastroenterology biobanking and methodology and if donor faeces is considered to be a drug pharmacology.

an overview of the currently existing donor faeces banks is depicted in .

similar to the ndfb most of the donor banks are non-profit and primarily use fmt for treatment of patients with recurrent cdi.legislation of a donor faeces bankthere is still considerable confusion about the regulatory as- pects of fmt e. the fda dictates that adequate informed consent must be obtained before use of fmt products .

in thetable 1overview of currently existing donor faeces bankslocation foundedlegislationdonorsproductsindicationsno.

in the netherlands fmt is currently regarded as an unclassified treatment approachwhich is allowed if applied safely for patients with recurrent cditable 2donor screening by laboratory screening of faeces and serum laboratory screening serumlaboratory screening faecesor in the context of an approved investigational study protocol.although fmt appears to be a typical transplantation product to most experts in the field  it does not fulfil the criteria for guidance by the eu tissue and cell transplantation act because the cellular component of fmt appears not to be the active substance.

as a consequence several euro- pean countries considering donor faeces to be a drug  which has major regulatory implications negatively influencing future availability and pricing of donor stool solutions for fmt.

in this regard common sense and consultation of the experts in the field may hopefully result in adjustment of the eu law in concordance with the rapid scientific developments enabling future status of donor faeces as a trans-plantation product.hepatitis a igm th igghepatitis bhbsag th anti-hbcorehepatitis c anti-hcvhepatitis e igm th igghiv anti-hiv type 1 and 2lues treponema pallidum igcytomegalovirus igm th iggepstein barr virus igm thiggstrongyloides igg1igg4clostridium difficile pcrhelicobacter pylori antigen testbacterialgastroenteritispcr followed by culture salmonella spp.

however later evidence showed that fmt with donor faeces from unrelated donors was as effective .

one of several options for recruitment of faeces donors is from established blood donors as this has the advantage of previously screened healthy and motivated volunteers.

