the results are very interesting and should be rep- licated in different patient populations.immunotherapy for food allergythere are no currently approved therapies for food al- lergy a number of immunotherapeutic strategies are currently being evaluated for ige-mediated food allergy 89. all of them rely on regular exposure to the food al- lergen via the oral oral immunotherapy oit sublin- gual sublingual immunotherapy or epicutaneous epi- cutaneous immunotherapy route subcutaneous vac- cines based on modified hypoallergenic major peanut allergens are currently undergoing phase i clinical trials in adults 5 6. while oit induces a temporary state of increased threshold of clinical reactivity to the food al- lergen dependent on daily oit dosing referred to as desensitization no food immunotherapy is proven to inducerestore permanent oral tolerance table 5. im- provements in safety allowing for the inclusion of pa- tients with severe phenotypes of food allergy and asthmarefinements in dose and duration of treatment to en- hance efficacy and understanding of the mechanisms underlying desensitization and tolerance are desirable.

food industry with exposure to aerosolized food proteins such as wheat and egg 53. additionally systemic reactions to ingested egg can occur in adults ex- posed to pet bird dander via inhalation due to the pres- ence of a cross-reactive antigen alpha-livetin in both the dander and egg yolk 54. it remains to be determinedwhether primary sensitization via the airways might oc- cur in infants with gastroesophageal reflux through mi- croaspiration of the gastric content.tolerance induction for food allergy preventionthere is no consensus whether food allergies can be prevented and what is the optimal duration of exclusive breastfeeding as well as timing of supplemental formula and solid food introduction.table 3. mechanisms limiting the access of intact ingested food antigens to the immune system and consequenc- es of their developmental immaturity in infantsbreastfeedinghuman breast milk contains variety of bioactive mol- ecules which are involved in infant growth actively mod- ulate immune system and gut microbiota confer passive immunity and have a positive impact on cognitive devel- opment and metabolism 55. breast milk contains gut trophic factors epidermal growth factor insulin growth factor and tgf-b capable of actively stimulating crypt and villi formation decreasing intestinal permeability in the first week of life.

for infants without eczema or any food allergy free introduction of peanut into the diet together with other solid foods that are age-appropriate as per family preferences is recommended.high-risk foods peanut cooked egg cow's milk wheat sesame and whitefisha similar concept has been tested in the eat trial that evaluated whether the early introduction of allergenictable 4. clinical trials of early food allergen introductiontable 4 continuedtable 4 continuedrct randomized controlled trial spt skin prick test ofc oral food challenge itt intention to treat analysis pp per protocol analysis rr rela- tive risk dbpcfc double-blind placebo-controlled food challenge fpies food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome nnt number needed to treat fas full analysis set the fas is the analysis set that is as complete and close as possible to the itt ideal of having primary outcome data on all random- ized subjects.foods into the diet of breastfed infants would protect against the development of food allergy 49. the eat trial recruited 1303 exclusively breastfed infants from the general population who were 3 months of age.

n engl j med 2015372803-813.c 2017 s. karger ag basele-mail nutrition intervention in allergy preventionann nutr metab 201770suppl 27-24 doi 10.1159000457915mechanisms of tolerance inductionanna nowak-wegrzyna pantipa chatchateebadivision of allergy and immunology department of pediatrics jaffe food allergy institute icahn school of medicine at mount sinai kravis children's hospital new york ny usa bdivision of allergy and immunology department of pediatrics faculty of medicine chulalongkorn university king chulalongkorn memorial hospital bangkok thailandpublished online may 19 2017keywordsoral tolerance  gut-associated lymphoid tissue  food allergy  food hypersensitivity  food allergy prevention  food allergy treatment  eczema  atopic dermatitis  probiotics  prebiotics  microbiota  desensitization abstractfood allergy results from failure in oral tolerance that usu- ally occurs in infancy or early childhood.

the prevalence of peanut allergy docu- mented by a physician-supervised oral food challenge in a population-based cohort of 12-month-old infants in australia was 3 reaching epidemic proportions 3. currently there are no proven strategies to induce per- manent tolerance the management relies on recognition of adverse reactions and treatment of symptoms 1 4. considering the risk of fatal anaphylaxis the negative impact on the nutritional status and quality of life as well as the cost to the individual and the society finding effec- tive preventive and therapeutic strategies for food aller- gy has become a focus of many international research ef- forts 5 6.food allergy risk factorsfood allergy is most common in infants and young children as a result of the immaturity of the gut barrier and the immune system in these age groups 7 8. im- mune deficiencies - including selective iga deficiency common variable immunodeficiency and ipex immu- nodysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy x- linked syndrome - are associated with an increased prevalence of food allergy 9. genetic factors play an im- portant role in the development of food allergy however epigenetic and environmental factors seem to have more relevance in the recent increase in food allergy prevalence table 1 10-18.oral tolerancefood allergy results from failure to develop primary oral tolerance or from breach in previously established oral tolerance.

this might explain the higher incidence of sensitization in off-table 2. evidence supporting the pivotal role of t regulatory lymphocytes in oral toleranceipex immunodysregulation polyendocrinopathy enteropathy x-linked syndrome.spring of allergic mothers 36-38. however modifica- tion of the maternal diet during pregnancy did not influ- ence the development of food allergies in the infant later in life seen in the analysis of multiple interventional stud- ies following children up to 10 years of age 39.presence of food allergens in breast milk might trig- ger sensitization in the infant 40 41. for many years guidelines have recommended avoidance of peanut and tree nuts for the first 3 years of life and some also in- cluded avoidance during pregnancy aap committee on nutrition 2000. these recommendations have been modified after studies failed to show a correlation be- tween maternal diet and development of atopic disease 42. in contrast to past recommendations more recent studies have shown a protective effect of high allergen consumption during pregnancy 43. high consump- tion of peanuts and tree nuts during pregnancy was found to be associated with lower rates of food allergy in children 44. a study investigating associations be- tween maternal consumption of common childhood al- lergens during pregnancy and childhood outcome of al- lergic disease and asthma showed a decreased incidence of asthma and atopic disease at the age of 8 years in chil- dren whose mothers had a high consumption of peanut milk and wheat during early pregnancy 45. it is likely that other routes of sensitization like transcutaneous ex- posure are key factors in the development of food al- lergy.a clear association has been shown between early on- set of ad and the development of food allergies 46.the impaired skin barrier leads to increased transcuta- neous passage of antigens and subsequent sensitization.

children with severe ad who used skin care products containing peanut oil showed higher rates of peanut sensitization supporting the theory of transcutaneous sensitization 46. it was found that about 50 of chil- dren with moderate-to-severe ad had a loss of function mutation of filaggrin and also showed increased sensiti- zation to peanut 10. this was also noted in mouse models filaggrin-deficient mice showed a th17-domi- nated skin inflammation and susceptibility to epicuta- neous sensitization 47. in mouse models of egg and peanut allergy skin exposure to these foods promotes the development of specific ige sensitization to ovalbu- min and peanut whereas an oral exposure promotes oral tolerance 20 21. cutaneous exposure to food an- tigens induces thymic stromal lymphopoietin produc- tion activation of basophils that produce il-4 produc- tion of th2 cytokines and accumulation of mast cells in the gut 52. mutations in genes encoding proteins that determine the integrity of the skin barrier such as flg encoding filaggrin are independent risk factors for pea- nut allergy 52. figure 1 describes differential immune responses to food protein in the gastrointestinal tract and skin.sensitization via food ingestionthe introduction of food proteins as in infant formula or complementary food leads to a change in the infant's gut microbiota and the relative immaturity of the infant'sfig.

furthermore food ige sensitization was present in 6.27 and food allergy prevalence was 86. egg was the most prevalent allergen 2.94 followed by peanut 1.75 and cow's milk 0.74. day 2 upper-quartile tewl 9 g waterm2h was a signifi- cant predictor of food allergy at the age of 2 years or 4.1 95 ci 1.5-4.8. day 2 tewl was in the upper quartile in 75 of children with food allergy at 2 years of age.

rigorous multicenter randomized clinical trials are necessary to elucidate the optimal timing dose duration as well as the preventive and therapeutic ef- fects of these diverse approaches.c 2017 s. karger ag baselintroductionfood allergy is defined as an immune-mediated ad- verse reaction to food 1. food allergy has become an important global public health problem 2. overall food allergy is estimated to affect up to 8 of children and up to 5 of adults in countries with a so-called western lifestyle such as the usa the uk canada australia and western europe.

infants without obvious risk factors such as eczema oth- er food allergies or a family history of food allergy may develop food allergy and manifest anaphylaxis on a first known ingestion in particular of egg.

ad- ditional potential mechanisms by which probiotics ex- ert pro-tolerogenic effects in the gut are illustrated in fig- ure 2.among 226 children with milk allergy who were en- rolled at infancy in the consortium of food allergy ob- servational study of food allergy the gut microbiome composition at the age of 3-6 months was associated with milk allergy resolution by the age of 8 years permano- va p  0.047 with enrichment of clostridia and fir- micutes in the infant gut microbiome of subjects whose milk allergy resolved 78. metagenome functional pre- diction supported decreased fatty acid metabolism in the gut microbiome of subjects whose milk allergy resolved e2  0.43 anova p  0.034. therefore early infancy is a window during which the gut microbiota may deter- mine food allergy outcomes in childhood.

2. a meta-analysis of the randomized controlled clinical trials investigating the use of probiotics in infants for primary prevention of allergies found mild reduction in clinical eczema in infants but insufficient evidence for a general recommendation of probiotic supplementation for pre- vention of allergic disease or food hypersensitivity 79. it remains to be determined whether supplementation with probiotic bacteria can correct the underlying alterations in the gut microbiota in children with food allergy 18.prebioticsprebiotics are food components that are nondigestible and reach the colon where they provide nutrition and stimulate growth and activity of bacteria of the normal gut flora fig.

j allergy clin immunol 2014134867-875.e1.li j maggadottir sm hakonarson h are genetic tests informative in predicting food allergy curr opin allergy clin immunol 201616257-264.ashley s dang t koplin j martino d prescott s food for thought progress in un- derstanding the causes and mechanisms of food allergy.

oral epicutaneous and sublingual routes of food immunotherapy are promis- ing and induce desensitization in the majority of the treated subjects with food allergy but are not proven to restore per- manent oral tolerance.

in mouse models of food allergy it is very difficult to induce allergic sensitization via oral or parenteral immunization to foods such as cow's milk egg white or peanut included in the diet 19. however an exposure through the dam- aged skin mimicking a skin barrier defect occurring in atopic dermatitis ad is more likely to induce ige sen- sitization to ovalbumin in hen's egg white and peanut proteins 20 21.mechanism of oral tolerancet cells have been identified as the pivotal cells in oral tolerance based on the experiments in animal models where tolerance can be transferred to naive animals through the transfer of regulatory t treg cells table 2 8.inducible foxp3 cd4 treg cells are central to themaintenance of immune homeostasis and tolerance throughout the body particularly in the gut 22 23. in- testinal foxp3 treg cells regulate mucosal immune re- sponses at multiple cellular levels 24 25. foxp3-in- duced treg cells are required for oral tolerance and their depletion results in defective oral tolerance in mice and food allergy in humans 26. natural development of oral tolerance in food-allergic children is associated with in- creased foxp3 t cells.

