regarding uc a systematic review of four case series that included 27 patients found that 24 of patients achieved clinical remission.3 in 2015 two randomized controlled trials rcts of fmt in patients with uc were published which reported contradictory results.45 one study by moayyedi et al.4 that randomized 75 patients with uc to receive fmt 50 ml enema from an unrelated healthy donor or placebo 50 ml water enema once weekly for 6 weeks demonstrated a statistically significant benefit in the fmt group with clini- cal and endoscopic remission at 7 weeks in comparison with outcomes in the placebo group 24 vs. 5 respec- tively.4 on the contrary a second study by rossen et al.5 that randomized 48 patients with uc to receive fmt via nasogastric tube healthy donor or placebo autologous fecal microbiota at 0 and 3 weeks showed no statistically significant difference in remission at 12 weeks 30 vs. 20 respectively.

these results suggest the importance of treatment intensity and multiple donors for each fmt infusion.6 in contrast regarding cd a systematic review of four case series that included 38 patients found that 60.5 of patients achieved a clinical response.3 of note there are no rct data assessing fmt in patients with cd.however most of these studies have been performed in western countries.

it has been shown to be highly efficacious for refractory and recurrent clostridi- um difficile infection with more than 90 of cure rates.2 the success of fmt in treating patients with c. difficile infection has suggested that fmt could be effective in other diseases associated with dysbiosis such as ibd.several studies exploring the efficacy of fmt in patients with ibd have been reported but the results are equivocal.

compared with western populations asian patients with ibd have distinct genetic and ethnic backgrounds as well as different environmental features such as diet and intestinal microbial variation.7 a recent japanese open-label non-randomized study on 10 patients with uc failed to show the clinical efficacy of fmt single infusion via colonoscopy related donor.8in this issue of intestinal research  bak et al.9 reported a case of refractory cd treated with a single fmt infusion.

fmt involves the infusion of feces the entire intestinal microbiota from healthy donors intothe intestinal tract of recipient patients.

fecal microbiota trans- plantation induces remission in patients with active ulcerative colitis in a randomized controlled trial.

editorialpissn 1598-9100  eissn 2288-1956httpsdoi.org10.5217ir.2017.15.2.145 intest res 2017152145-146is there a potential role of fecal microbiota transplantation in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseasechang soo eundepartment of internal medicine hanyang university guri hospital guri koreaarticle fecal microbiota transplantation for refractory crohn's disease intest res 201715244- 248the exact pathogenesis of ibd including cd and uc is not clear.

however it has been accepted that ibd results from inappropriate and ongoing immune reactions to spe- cific components of the intestinal microbiota in a genetically susceptible host triggered by various environmental fac- tors.1 several human and animal studies have shown that dysbiosis an altered intestinal microbial profile is associated with ibd and that the intestinal microbiota seems to play a crucial role in the development of this disease.

considering the pathophysiological role of the intestinal microbiota targeting the microbiota might be an attractive therapeutic approach for ibd.

single fecal microbiota transplantation failed to change intestinal microbiota and had limited effectiveness against ulcerative colitis in japanese pa- tients.

corticosteroids immunosuppressants and biologics have been effective in treating ibd a consid- erable proportion of patients have still been refractory to these treatments.

very recently another rct by paramsothy et al.6 that randomized 85 patients with uc to receive fmt 150 ml enema blended stool from 3 to 7 unrelated donors or placebo 150 ml enema 5 days per week for 8 weeks demonstrated a statistically significant benefit in the fmt group with clinical steroid-free and endoscopic remission at 8 weeks in comparison with outcomes in the placeboc copyright 2017. korean association for the study of intestinal diseases.

this case report which first demonstrated the efficacy of fmt in a korean patient with refractory cd provides important insight into the treatment options available for these patients in korea.

unfortunately fecal microbial analysis was not performed to evaluate the effect of fmt on intestinal microbial change in this patient with refractory cd.fmt might be a promising therapeutic option in patients with ibd.

findings from a randomized controlled trial of fecal transplantation for patients with ulcerative colitis.

