One such example is Kisameet glacial clay KC an antibacterial clay from a deposit on the central coast of British Columbia Canada.

In addition the clay harbors bacteria that may have in- teresting potential as biocontrolbioremediation agents or producers of novel bioac- tive compounds.KEYWORDS Actinobacteria clay mineral geochemical characteristics Kisameet microbiome antimicrobial activity microbial communitiesicrobes are essential components of most of the environments on Earth.

More recently the use of poultices of French green clay for treatment of Mycobacterium ulcerans skin infections in Africa by the humanitarian Line Brunet de Courssou has renewed interest in the antibacterial potential of clays  .Clays are a diverse group of economically important natural materials made up of clay minerals--silicates with a repeating layer structure and a small particle size 2 um .

The mecha- nisms of action of different clays appears diverse andor multifactorial and may include pH and redox buffering of metal ion toxicity Fe2 and Al3 adsorption and release of compounds in clay interlayers absorption of micronutrients required for bacterial growth or proliferation of bacterial species that produce antibacterial com- pounds   .Kisameet glacial clay KC located in a deposit on the northwestern coast of British Columbia Canada has been used historically by the local Heiltsuk First Nation for therapeutic purposes.

Measurement of different preparations of KC core samples fresh aqueous suspensions aqueous leachates or suspensions of clay that had been stored exposed to air for approximately 1 month suggested that the clay pH can vary depending on i depth of the sample in the deposit and ii exposure to air.

Details of shared OTUs are listed in Table S5.mean observed species mean 1251 OTUs versus 431 for clay samples P  0.0015 and Shannon index 6.2 versus 3.6 for clay samples P  0.0003 metrics.

Recently the po- tent antibacterial activity of certain clay minerals has stimulated scientific interest in these materials.

Here we present the first characterization of both the microbial and geochemical characteris- tics of a glacial clay deposit.

The Kisameet Bay deposit in Brit- ish Columbia Canada holds a novel glacial clay with a history of medicinal use by local indigenous people.

Here we have characterized the microbiome of this de- posit to gain insight into what might make the clay antibacterial.

