j dermatol case rep. 2017 111 16-19introductionoral lichenoid lesions described also as mucositis of the upper lip and gingiva is a clinical subtype of lichenoid le- sions.123 a small number of case series describe this loca- lized type of lichenoid lesions.123 the main features which make it a distinct clinical entity are 1 the location of the lesions only affecting the mucosa of the upper lip and the gingiva of the upper anterior teeth 2 the appearance of the lesions which show intense erythema accompanied by white patches and superficial erosions.

they were all advised to visit their dentist for scaling and poli- shing every 4 months and to avoid any kind of chewing gums and artificial sweets.discussionoral lichen planus olp is an inflammatory disease of the oral mucosa which may have a wide range of clinical appe- arance.4 olp usually affects middle aged female women common sites affected are the buccal mucosa typically bi- lateral striae like lesions are the hallmark of clinical diagno- sis gingival desquamative gingivitis ulcers erythema tongue and vermillion border of the lip.5 the pathogenesis of olp is poorly understood and the most popular theory is that olp is a t-cell-mediated response to an unknown an- tigen internal or external and may resemble an autoimmu- ne reaction.as patients' symptoms vary significantly with many being asymptomatic for years therapy is applied only for the pa- tients who complain of pain and difficulty in eating and spe- aking.45 no golden standard exists most commonly topical steroids are used to lower the inflammatory response usu- ally clobetasol propionate 0.05 other options such as to- pical tacrolimus and systemic steroids are used in patients with extensive lesions or if topical steroids fail.6 many pa- tients may be refractory to treatment.4 olp carries a risk for transformation into squamous cell carcinoma possibly as a result of chronic inflammatory oxidative stress.78 hence it requires surveillance for malignant changes by experien- ced clinicians.9 often classic olp is non-distinguishable from oral lichenoid tissue reactions olr.

changing the dental filling from amalgam to composi- te can lead to complete resolution.these three cases are typical examples of the condition previously described as oral lichenoid reactions of the up- per lip associated with reaction to oral microbial.123 these lesions possibly are a distinct type of olr which is precipi- tated by dental plaque microbia which colonize the upper anterior gingival margins causing chronic gingival inflamma- tion and also irritate the mucosa of the upper lip generating lichen like lesions.123 recently a patient with oral lichen planus and granulomatous cheilitis has been described sup- porting the connection of a microbial component to the olpolr pathogenesis.5all three patients had a long history of relapses following partially successful treatments table 1. the chosen combi- nation of prednisolone and clarithromycin was based on the notion that these lesions share features of both an immune mediated and microbial precipitated disease.123 treatment with solely corticosteroids has been proved unsuccessful in these patients and similar cases.123 clarithromycin was ad- ded aiming to reduce the gingival inflammation possibly at- tributed to microbes.

all three patients had a long history of previous ineffective treat- ments and all three showed an excellent response to a combination of clarithro- mycin 2 x 250 mgday and prednisolone 15 mgday.conclusion the combination of clarithromycin and prednisolone may be consi- dered as an alternative intervention in patients with lichenoid lesions of the up- per lip and upper anterior gingiva.

biopsy was not considered necessary as no strong differentialfigure 1patient 1 initially and after treatment.figure 2patient 2 initially and after 8 days of treatment.figure 3patient 3 initially and after 5 days of treatment.table 1. patient characteristics.oral lichenoid lesions of the upper lip georgakopoulou et al.diagnosis problem existed and lesions were not suspicious for dysplasia.they received the same treatment with a combination of 15 mg of prednisolone in combination with 250 mg of cla- rithromycin b.d.

oral lichenoid lesions of the upper lipeleni a. georgakopoulou 1 marina d. achtari 2oral medicine center athens greecedental clinic penteli children's general hospital athens greece.corresponding author eleni a. georgakopoulou oral medicine center fokeas 4 nea ionia athens 142 32greecee-mailkeywordserosions lichen planus lichenoid mucositis lips microbiome mucous membranesabstractbackground oral lichen planus is a chronic inflammatory disease of unknown etiology.

olr may be caused by localized contact reactions or may be associa- ted with the use of systemic drugs table 2.10table 2. most common causes of lichenoid lesions of the lip and oral mucous membrane.idiopathic olp and olr show almost identical histologic features that include liquefaction of the basal keratinocytes with a bandlike array of activated inflammatory cells mixed populations of t lymphocytes macrophages and dendritic cells have been described.45 in addition many immune- mediated diseases can induce oral lichenoid changes that mimic olp e.g.

it is characterized by notable heterogeneity in clinical presentation and behavior.main observations we describe 3 patients with lichenoid lesions of the upper lip and upper anterior gingiva.

in addition clarithromycin is known to enhance the effect of prednisolone so we could benefit from lower steroid-doses.conclusionthe successful outcome of these three patients of course does not predict the positive outcome of all cases of lip li- chenoid mucositis as there are notable variations in the cli- nical behavior of the lichenoid lesions.

these cases probably represent a clinical subtype of lichenoid lesions associated with microbial antigenicity and are characterized by persistency.

the labial and gingi- val lesions were red and whitish with lichenoid features striae like fig.

2016 122 440-441. pmid 27492565.kamath vv setlur k yerlagudda k. oral lichenoid lesions -- a review and update.

there is a strong speculation that a microbial factor is involved in the pathogenesis of the lesions.in this article three cases of patients with upper lip liche- noid lesions are presented.

1 2 3. the lesions were described as disturbing by the patients who complained of burning and pain especially with spicy food.

1 2 3. two of the three patients were completely free of lesions on the day 5 and the treat- ment was tapered down to 10 mg of prednisolone for 3 days and 250 mf of clarithromycin o.d.

