the biofilm mass increased in train 1 from run 1 to run 2 while the biofilm mass decreased in train 2 from run 1 to run 2. thus operating a post carbon removal nitrifying mbbr at conventional to the maximum loading rate does not clearly impact the biofilm characteristics or demonstrate a link to ammonia removal efficiency.the carriers in the b reactors second reactors in series started with the same seeded carriers on the first day of operation as the a train reactors first reactors in series.

similar to the aob profile grouping the nobs did not show a sig- nificant difference in relative abundance in the a reactors with rel- ative abundance ranging from 29.5 to 31.4. this resulted in nob aob ratio in the a reactors ranged from 2.8 to 5.4.the b reactors which were in a starved condition corresponded to an average aob relative abundance between 1.1 and 5.3 which is significantly lower than the a reactors p  0.001. con-period however the system remained stable.

the second reactors in series b reactors were fed with the effluent of the a train reactors.

the biomass exhibited a higher live fraction of total cells in the high loaded reactors 73-100 as compared to the reactors operated in starvation condition 26-82. for both the high loaded and starvation condition the microbial communities significantly changed with time of operation.

the first two reactors in series a reactors were fed with treated wastewater from the last lagoonfig.

hence the b train reactors were operated in starvation conditions simulating wastewater treatment systems that intermittently nitrify prior to post carbon removal and secondary settling nitrifying add-on units.all four reactors had a reactor volume of 223 l and were filled with anoxkaldnes k5 carriers.

in both runs the b reactors were fed 100 effluent from the a reactors.

all samples were sequenced on the same sequencing run to reduce variance from sequencing bias.results and discussionnitrificationpost carbon removal mbbr nitrification was monitored via test- ing of the influent and effluent ammonia nitrite and nitrate con- centrations a-c. the a reactors first reactors in series had the highest ammonia loading rates throughout the study.fig.

as such it is likely there was a more efficient mass transfer of oxygen and nutri- ents into the biofilm and potentially a more active biomass.the b train reactors second reactors in series are representa- tive of a system that nitrifies intermittently.

the biofilm thickness and mass in the a reactors first reactors in series in trains 1 and 2 ran- ged from 54 to 92 mm and 7.7 to 10.6 mgcarrier respectively .

qualitative assessments of the biofilm morphology indicated the a reactors showed more rough biofilms whereas the b train reactors showed more smooth biofilms fig.

this penetration depth was exceeded for the a train reactors and near the critical point in the b train reactors for both run 1 and run 2 .

the pilot was configured with two parallel treatment trains each with two reactors in series .

during run 1 the influent to the a reactors was fed with natural lagoon effluent correspond- ing to 19.8 - 0.4 mgnh4-nl.

ammonia augmentation was performed with a peristaltic pump directly into an equalization tank prior to feeding into the mbbr reactors.

