first directly confirmed the association between chronic h. pylori infection and ir and their results showed that the homa-ir of subjects in the h. pylori positive group was significantly higher than that in the h. pylori negative group p  0.05 aydemir et al.

2005. in 2009 a large cross- sectional study including 1107 subjects found that the h. pylori seropositivity rate was significantly higher for patients in their group homa-ir  2.5 than in patients in the non-ir group homa-ir  2.5 39.4 vs. 28.7 respectively p 0.027. multiple linear regression analysis showed that h. pylori infection was significantly correlated with the homa-ir 95 ci  0.058-0.246 p  0.001. the authors therefore proposed that h. pylori infection may be an important independent risk factor for the development of ir gunji et al.

2014. polyzos's study also detected hs-crp in h. pylori infection of nafld patients the results showed that the hs-crp level was higher in h. pylori positive group than in h. pylori negative group polyzos et al.

1999. recently a meta-analysis on the association between h. pylori infection and metabolic syndrome involving 27544 participants showed that comparedto h. pylori negative groups h. pylori positive groups were lower in hdl-c md  -2.43 95 ci -3.75 to -1.12 i2 92 and higher in tg md  8.12 95 ci 3.05-13.20 i2 71 upala et al.

so far h. pylori is one of the most common human infectious bacteria with a worldwide prevalence of 50. in the united states and europe the prevalence of h. pylori is estimated to be 20-50 varying in different socioeconomic age and ethnic groups and geography ford and axon 2010. in developing countries the prevalence has been reported to be as high as 70 mandeville et al.

2009. surprisingly h. pylori sequence were found in the liver tissues of chronic hepatitis c patients even though the serology of h. pylori was negative castera et al.

pylori igg seropositivity than in those without p  0.03. this study also found that h. pylori infection could independently predict nash in logistic regression analysis p  0.003. and it further confirmed that h. pylori infection may represent a contributing factor to nafld sumida et al.

if this correlation is verified the treatmentof h. pylori may represent a new specific therapeutic strategy for nafld.the possible mechanisms of the influence of h. pylori infection on nafldinsulin resistance irir is closely associated with nafld and is also one of the independently risk factors of it wang et al.

2016. a study involving 153 dyspeptic patients found that h. pylori infection was significantly negatively associated with serum leptin level p  0.001. h. pylori infection may influence leptin production hemmasi et al.

found that the serum tg and total cholesterol t-chol concentrations were significantly higher in the males with positive igg antibody titers for h. pylori than in the males with no signs of infection p  0.001 indicating that chronic h. pylori infection may influence the serum lipid profile laurila et al.

this paper will review the relationship between h. pylori infection and nafld and the possible pathogenic mechanisms.keywords h. pylori nafld insulin resistance lipid profile gut microbiotaintroductionhelicobacter pylori h. pylori is a gram-negative microaerophilic bacterium that colonizes the stomach of humans.

recently accumulating evidence implicates h. pylori infection existing in the patients with extragastrointestinal diseases including idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura ischemic heart diseases obesity type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm wong et al.

we know that h. pylori infection has been implicated in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance ir polyzos et al.

recently many studies have reported that h. pylori infection is closely related to the development of nafld polyzos et al.

firstly h. pylori deoxyribonucleic acid dna has been detected in patients with various etiologies of chronic liver diseases cld including hepatitis liver fibrosis and hcc de magalhaes queiroz and santos 2001 castera et al.

