however recent attention to forensic microbiology and the advent of next generation sequencing has allowed great advances and an appreciation for the role of microbes in carrion decomposition and the utility in forensics.resource-mediated changes in microbial activity have the potential to alter ecosystem processes such as the production and respiration of organic material that will also impact decomposition.

however while the goal of this publication was to provide an overview a secondary goal was to bring awareness to forensic microbiology demonstrate its relevance to forensic entomology and potentially inspire future research on the topic to better explain the time of death as related to arthropod attraction colonization and utilization of vertebrate remains with the ultimate goal of the integration of multidisciplinary investigations for obtaining useful forensic evidence.acknowledgments we would like to thank zachary burcham for his friendly review of the manuscript.

additionally some microbes such as some fungi produce toxic compounds during colonization and decomposition which may lead to insect avoidance of the resource  whereas other fungal species may produce fungal odors that are attractive semiochemicals to insects .most studies of nutrient recycling by microbes historically involved soil microbial communities and plant litter as detritus with very few studies focused on carrion decomposition.

reviewed several decomposition studies and showed that cadaver decomposition patterns differ from patterns seen from the microbial breakdown of plant and fecal matter and that cadavers might not persist in terrestrial ecosystems as long as fecal matter and woody material .

these general ratios suggest that no matter the ecosystem and associated microbial community's decomposition capacity a set of common metabolic pathways stabilizes carbon in the soil long term allowing the prediction of decomposition rates.

the goal of this publication was to provide a general overview of the importance of microbes in particular bacteria and fungi to the decomposition process and convince the reader that while they are not visible they aid in regulation of arthropod behavior as related to forensic entomology.

assessment of decomposition studies indicates need for standardized and repeatable methods in forensic entomology.

singh b. forensic and decomposition microbiology.

forensic entomology myths busted forensic mag.

sathyan p. vargheese g. the use of insects in forensic investigations an overview on the scope of forensic entomology.

there is another biotic factor that has been historically overlooked however with the advent of high-throughput sequencing and other molecular techniques the curtain has been pulled back to reveal a microscopic world that is playing a major role with regards to carrion decomposition patterns in association with arthropods.

the objective of this publication is to review many of these factors and draw attention to their impact on microbial specifically bacteria activity associated with these remains as it is our contention that microbes serve as a primary mechanism regulating associated arthropod behavior.keywords decomposition insect microbe microbiome abiotic biotic inter-kingdom colonizationintroductionforensic entomology is the well-established field of applying insect science to aid legal investigations where arthropods are associated with living  or deceased people  pets  wildlife  or even livestock .

in this same context insect activity may also have an equal or opposite effect on microbial colonization and function during decomposition processes.

the purpose of this paper is to present a different perspective of the decomposition process and provide some basic understanding of some but certainly not all factors impacting microbial activity which in turn likely impacts arthropod behavior figure .

for instance an abrupt change in temperature may lead to gene expression as a global stress response to either cold or heat where shock proteins are induced under these conditions in an attempt to prevent cell death .therefore in the context of carrion decomposition associated microorganisms are heavily influenced by the varying internal and external temperatures of the cadaver which are heavily guided by the ambient temperature.

