single nucleotide polymorphisms snps located within mirna-binding sites could thus influence cancer risk and overall survival 16-18. snps in the il13 gene have been reported to contribute to abnormal expression of il- 13 and modify susceptibility to cancer development 19. however the influence of snps in microrna-binding sites of the il13 gene on the risk of colorectal cancer and overall survival has not been reported.in this study we explored the association of dietary factors and polymorphisms in the microrna-binding site of il13 with the risk and prognosis of crc with the aim of providing meaningful instructions on dietary intake for individuals with specific genetic variants of il13.resultsin supplementary table 1 we present all the snps with minor allele frequency maf  5 located at the mirna binding sites of genes involved in inflammatory processes.

the mean age was 60.14 years for cases and 57.16 years for controls p  0.001. there was a higher proportion of workers with mental occupations and a lower proportion of physical workers among cases compared with controls p  0.003. the mean body mass index was 23.26 -3.35 and 24.27-4.14 in cases and controls respectively p  0.001. no significant difference was found for the distribution of gender p  0.805 education level p  0.424 and family history of cancer p  0.168 between cases and controls.based on multivariate logistic regression analysis for the association of dietary factors and crc risk cereals vegetables and milk had protective roles whereas excessive consumption of pork soybean and fish braised in soy sauce were risk factors for crc detailed results are shown in supplementary table 2. within the multivariate model two dietary factors allium vegetables and overnight meal were found to be significantly associated with crc development.table 2 shows the genotype distributions of three snps in il13 and their odds ratios ors and 95 confidence intervals cis for the risk of crc.

the shanghai women's health study suggested that high dietary nitrate and nitrite intake results in increased exposure to endogenously formed nocs and increased risk of crc 43. in this study we found a significantly increased risk of crc for individuals carrying genetic variants of all three snps combined with a high frequency of intake of overnight meals.

similarly rs847 and rs1295685 were predicted to have total ddgs of 112.9 and 26.1 supplementary table 1. however we did not find any significant association of these three snps with the risk of colorectal cancer.with respect to the functional capacity of adenoma- or carcinoma-related gut microbes dietary factors and chronic inflammatory factors have been recognized as crucial causes of crc 27-30. several previoustable 3 combined and interactive effects of microrna-binding site polymorphisms in il13 and dietary factors on the risk of colorectal cancerp value for interaction analysis conducted by multivariate logistic regression.allium vegetables vegetables in the allium genus include onions shallots leeks and scallions as well as herbs like garlic and chives.overnight meal the vegetables egg meat that have been cooked and left overninght.

thus researchers suggested that garlic-derived organosulfur compounds have the potential to be used as antimicrobial agents 39. several epidemiological studies also showed an inverse association between the intake frequency of onion or garlic and the risk of several common cancers 3 40 41. in this study we observed that intake of allium vegetables 4-6 times per week could significantly reduce the risk of crc.

missing data tumor site 3.genotype of rs1295685 ord 1.72 95ci 1.05 2.81p  0.03. these concordant results indicate that overnightmeal is a risk factor for crc.combined effects altered susceptibility to crc because of co-exposure to genetic variation and dietary intake and interactive effects how the two different genotypes respond to environmental variation in different ways were analyzed for these three microrna binding site polymorphisms and two dietary factors.

this study examines the association of gut microbiota-related dietary factors and polymorphisms in the microrna-binding site of the interleukin 13 gene il13 with the risk and prognosis of crc.

all experiments were performed in accordance with relevant guidelines and regulations.a case-control study was designed to assess the role of genetic polymorphisms and dietary factors on the risk of crc.

dietary nitrate and nitrite intake and risk of colorectal cancer in the shanghai women's health study.

snp single nucleotide polymorphismordg or for combined effects of dietary factors and genetic factors ori or for interactive effects of dietary factors and genetic factorsstudies have suggested that dietary habits play a key role in modulation of the gut microbiota composition 31 32. the impact of diet on the human gut microbiota is an important environmental factor in the pathogenesis of disease states such as inflammatory bowel diseases 33 34. garlic contains oil-soluble organosulfur compounds such as ajoene diallyl sulfide diallyl disulfide and diallyltrisulfide whereas onion contains mainly s-propenylcysteinesulfoxide but also other sulfoxides 35. researchers found that diallyl sulfide can penetrate the membrane of bacteria 36. previous studies have validated that volatile thiosulfinates unstable and volatile bioactive sulfur-containing compounds have antimicrobial activity against helicobacter pylori 37. xiaonan et al.

although our study has a relatively large sample size the number of individuals in some subgroups with variant homozygotes is still too small to obtain sufficient statistical power.in summary this is the first study using population epidemiological methods to elucidate the role of gut microbiota-related dietary factors and polymorphisms in mirna-binding site in il13 in crc.

future guidelines for dietary intake based on individual genetic background should be addressed.materials and methodsstudy subjectswe performed this study after obtaining informed written consent from study subjects and approval from the human research and ethics committee of harbin medical university.

similarly no significant association was observed between rs1295685 and the risk of crc.as shown in table 3 for allium vegetables among individuals carrying the gg genotype of rs847 those with intake of allium vegetables including green onion garlic onion 4-6 times per week showed a statistically reduced risk of crc compared with those with intake less than once per week ordietary ord 0.51 95 ci 0.30 0.88 p  0.02. the same association was observed among individuals carrying the gg genotype of rs848 ord 0.53 95 ci 0.31 0.91 p  0.02 and in the analyses of rs1295685.

however no significant combined effect was found for rs848 g-t and allium vegetable intake.compared with individuals carrying the gg genotype of rs847 and with  1 timeweek intake of overnight meal those carrying the ag or aa genotypes and with more than 3 timesweek intake of overnight meal showed a increased risk of crc ordietarygeneticordg 1.84 95 ci 1.13 3.01 p  0.01. especiallya significant synergistic interaction was observedbetween rs847 g-a and overnight meal indicating that overnight meal and rs847 jointly increase the risk of crc.

compared with patients with protruding type of crc those with invasive and ulcer types showed shorter survival times and an increased risk of death hr 1.73 95 ci 1.23 2.44. in addition dukes' stage showed significance as a prognostic predictor mean survivaltable 2 association between microrna-binding site polymorphisms in il13 gene and the risk of colorectal cancergenotypescasescontrolsoradjustedp-valueoradjusted adjusted for bmi occupation and agetimes of the patients decreased with an increase in dukes' stage.

