we aimed to replicate the thermal event that occurred on tisler reef to quantify the effect of thermal stress on g. barretti and whether this stressor alone is responsible for the reported mass mortality of g. barretti individuals on tisler reef.

of interest in the interaction are the trends at exposure temperatures of 11 degc and 12 degc where marginal means the mean of the marginalprobability distribution for g. barretti individuals were consistently higher at each sampling time point than the marginal means for g. barretti individuals exposed to 7 degc and 9 degc with the exception of the recovery period fig.

respiration rates for g. barretti individu- als exposed to 11 degc 2.35 - 0.45 mmol o2 gtissue dw-1 h-1 and 12 degc 2.20 - 0.20 mmol o2 gtissue dw-1 h-1 were more than 2 times higher than g. barretti individuals exposed to 7 degc 1.13 - 0.15 mmol o2 gtissue dw-1 h-1 and 9 degc 0.88 - 0.16 mmol o2 gtissue dw-1 h-1 fig.

trends of increased marginal means for g. barretti explants exposed to water temperatures 4 and 5 degc above ambient temperatures 11 and 12 degc respectively were consistently higher than g. barretti explants exposed to ambient temperature 7 degc for the first 24 h fig.

of interest in the interaction are the trends at exposure temperatures of 11 degc and 12 degc where marginal means for g. barretti individuals were consistently higher at each sampling time point after 12 h than the marginal means for g. barretti individuals exposed to 7 degc and 9 degc fig.

the proportion of destabilised lysosomal membranes for g. barretti individuals exposed to 11 degc 24 - 1.48 and 12 degc 39.7 - 2.8 were 2-5 times higher than g. barretti individuals exposed to 7 degc 7.6 - 1.3 and 9 degc 10.4 - 0.7 fig.

the apparent thermal tolerance of g. barretti contrasts earlier field observations where mass mortalities of g. barretti at tisler reef coincided with acute thermal stress events.

3 284-293 2000.cerrano c. magnino g. sara a. bavestrello g.  gaino e. necrosis in a population of petrosia ficiformis porifera demospongiae in relation with environmental stress.

in porifera research biodiversity innovation and sustainability eds custodio m. r. bo-hajdu g. hajdu e.  muricy g. 239-246 serie livros 2007.pita l. erwin p. m. turon x.  lopez-legentil s. til death do us part stable sponge-bacteria associations under thermal and food shortage stresses.

while the mechanisms driving these mortality events are unclear manipulative laboratory experiments were conducted to quantify the effects of elevated temperature up to 5 degc above ambient levels on the ecophysiology respiration rate nutrient uptake cellular integrity and sponge microbiome of g. barretti.

cellular stress as measured through lysosomal destabilisation was 2-5 times higher at elevated temperatures than for control temperatures.however the microbiome of g. barretti remained stable throughout the experiment irrespective of temperature treatment.

these results suggest other environmental processes either alone or in combination with elevated temperature contributed to the mortality of g. barretti at tisler reef.a changing global climate is predicted to significantly impact marine environments-and well-studied shallow tropical coral reefs provide evidence of the sensitivity of marine ecosystems to increases in sea surface tempera- ture sst.

concomitant with g. barretti mortality i.e.

email of g. barretti mortalities has not been empirically determined and no experimental research has ascertained the thermal sensitivity of this sponge species.experimental and field research on shallow water sponge species has documented species-specific responses to elevated sst.

one year old g. barretti explants were exposed to acute thermal stress for 14 days simulating the exposure time period for the recorded highest tem- perature period followed by a 2-month recovery period.

