group sizes ad control n  15 ad slab51 n 15. p  0.05.to verify that the beneficial effects of slab51 on attenuating cognitive impairment were not linked to an increased locomotor activity ad mice from the first experiment were evaluated in an open field of test at each time point weeks 8 12 18 and 24. two-way anova revealed no differences in locomotor activity between treated and control ad groups ambulatory counts f128  0.116 p  0.05 stereotypic counts f128  1.95 p 0.05 as shown in table .

impairment of proteolysis which is characteristic of ad neurons favors the accumulation of det- rimental ab oligomeric structures that further contribute to proteasome and autophagy alterations.recently several authors have described a role for gut peptide hormones in ad.

the use of glucose-dependent insu- linotropic polypeptide gip analogs as neuroprotective agents is an emerging and promising strategy in the treatment of ad .currently no definitive treatment exists for ad and most approaches aim to preserve cognition and memory and to delay the loss of function.

sample size for each group was 8. eight additional ad mice and eight wt mice were sacrificed at 8-weeks of age representing time 0 for biochemical and immuno-his- tological analyses.in a second experiment a new batch of both ad n 20 and wt n 20 animals has been treated with water n  10 or slab51 n  10 to perform the nor test directly at 24 weeks of age.

the effect of the probiotic on the consolidation process of memories in ad mice was assessed through the novel object recognition nor and the passive avoidance tests which have been used as cognitive probes for detecting hippocampus and amygdala functions respectively.in a first experiment the ad mice were submitted to the nor test at all time points weeks 8 12 18 and 24 and differences between treated and control mice were observed f128  6.8 p 0.05 as shown in fig.

to verify this hypothesis a second group of ad and wt mice were submitted to the nor test at only two time points weeks 8 and 24. here we could appreciate differences between treated and untreated ad mice when they were 24 weeks old f340 2.95 p  0.05 as shown in fig.

panel b. in particular treated ad mice showed an improvement in cognitive performance compared to age-matched untreated ad mice demonstrating a sustained beneficial effect of slab51 until 24 weeks of age.

however higher entry latencies near the cut-off value 300 s measured in the retention test demonstrated that ad mice were able to memorize the punishment and to perform the inhibitory avoidance indicating that triple mutation did not impair amygdala function.24-week-old treated and untreated ad mice from the first experiment were evaluated in the elevated plus maze epm to analyze their anxiety-like behavior.

open arm entries and  time spent in the open arms by untreated and treated ad mice at 24 weeks of age first experiment groups' size  15. data points marked with an asterisk are statistically significant compared to their respective non-treated control mice p  0.05. panel d immunodetection of fgf9 protein in brain slides of 24-weeks old untreated and treated wt and ad mice 8 animals per groupfrom the first experiment.

panel e brain weights expressed in grams -es of both treated and untreated wt and ad mice over time groups' size is 8. panel f measurement of the cortex thickness mm and ventricular sizes evaluation mm3 in the brain sections of control and slab51 treated ad mice at 8 12 18 and 24 weeks of age.

results indicate a significant difference in fgf9 expression between treated and untreated ad mice and a similar level and pattern of expression between treated ad and control wt mice.

in fact hippocampal fgf9 expression was consistently increased in untreated ad mice compared to treated ad and control wt mice.

also treatment withslab51 induced larger changes in ad mice compared to wt mice but no differences in species richness t0  8 weeks t1  12 weeks t2  18 weeks t3  24 weeks.propionic and butyric acids significantly increased in ad mice upon slab51 treatment.

considering that the composition of gut microbiota and its metabolites can influence the inflammatory signaling a panel of pro- and anti- inflammatory cytokines has been evaluated in the plasma of both wt and ad mice administered with water or slab51.upon slab51 administration reduced plasma concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines have been observed in ad mice fig.

in this regard studies conducted on animal models showed that modifications of gut microbiota induced by oral bacteriother- apy reflect changes in genes involved in inflammatory and neuronal plasticity processes with a positive impact on neuronal function .in the present work we assessed the potential beneficial effects of modulating gut microbiota composition by a four-month treatment with slab51 a mixture of lactic acid bacteria and bifidobacteria in a triple transgenic mouse model of ad 3x-tg ad mice in the early stages of the disease.significant differences in microbiota structure were observed at all time points between the wt and the 3xtg-ad mice and these differences were independent of treatment.

