tel 61-7-4753-4292 fax 61-7-4772-5852 e-mail one sentence summary a disease currently affecting geodia barretti populations in the norwegian fjords causes a distinct shift in the microbiome of affected sponges.editor julie olsonheidi m. luter abstractreports of sponge disease are becoming increasingly frequent although almost all instances involve shallow-water tropical species.

genomic analysis of the g. barretti microbiome combined with experimental work to assess the mechanisms of infection will further elucidate the role of microorganisms in the disease.keywords sponge disease deep-sea sponges microbiomeintroductionsponge disease has been primarily reported to affect shallow water sponge populations recently reviewed in luter and web- ster  particularly species inhabiting the mediterranean and caribbean cowart et al.

the re- cent temperature-related mass mortality of g. barretti in nor- wegian populations guihen white and lunda lv  com- bined with increased observations of disease in these organisms bannister kutti and fossa  is particularly concerning.in this study we assessed the prevalence of disease affectingg.

signs of disease include brownblack discoloura- tion of the tissue extensive tissue disintegration and fouling.individuals displaying signs of disease were identified in half of the randomly chosen transects analysed as part of this study with up to 20 of individuals being affected in a single transect.

similar findings have been reported in coral disease whereby microbial commu- nity shifts are detected in areas of a colony without a disease bandlesion pantos and bythell .the microbial community of healthy g. barretti was similar to what has previously been reported for this species radax et al.

fems microbiology ecology 93 2017 fix074doi 10.1093femsecfix074advance access publication date 24 may 2017 research articleresearch article microbiome analysis of a disease affecting the deep-sea sponge geodia barrettiheidi m. luter raymond j. bannister steve whalan tina kutti mari-carmen pinedaand nicole s. webster1school of biological sciences victoria university of wellington wellington 6140 new zealand 2australianinstitute of marine science townsville qld 4810 australia 3institute of marine research boks 1870 nordnes n-5817 bergen norway 4marine ecology research centre southern cross university lismore nsw 2480 australia and 5australian centre for ecogenomics university of queensland qld 4072 australiacorresponding author australian institute of marine science pmb 3 townsville mc townsville qld 4810 australia.

here we describe the first disease affecting the deep-water sponge geodia barretti.

the disease is characterised by brownblack discolouration of the sponge tissue extensive levels of tissue disintegration and increased levels of fouling.disease prevalence was quantified using video survey transects conducted between 100 and 220 m in korsfjorden norway and the microbial communities of healthy and diseased sponges were compared using 16s rrna gene sequencing.

in addition three operational taxonomic units were exclusively present in diseased individuals and were shared between the disease lesions and the apparently healthy tissue of diseased individuals suggesting a non-localised infection or dysbiosis.

however to date there are no pub- lished reports of diseases affecting deep-sea sponges.signs of disease in shallow water sponges include brown spot lesions black patches white patches red bands orangereceived 3 february 2017 accepted 23 may 2017qc fems 2017. all rights reserved.

given their abundance and important ecological role in nu- trient cycling loss of geodia due to disease would potentially impact the associated deep-sea benthic ecosystem.

barretti populations in korsfjorden norway and characterised the microbial communities of healthy and diseased individuals to determine if shifts in microbial symbiosis occur in response to disease.materials and methodsvideo surveysvideo surveys were undertaken using the remotely operated vehicle rov aglantha onboard the rv ha kon mosby in september 2013 to assess the prevalence of disease in geodia bar- retti individuals in a relatively undisturbed fjord south of bergen norway.

video surveys were analysed by randomly selecting still images at 30 s intervals quantifying the density of g. barretti individuals and identify- ing the proportion of g. barretti individuals with visible signs of disease.

in addition the metastats command within mothur was used to assess which otus were differen- tially abundant between health states.resultsin september 2013 video survey transects conducted between 100 and 220 m depth in korsfjorden covering 534 m2 total area revealed that 0-20 of the geodia barretti community exhib- ited signs of disease table s1 supporting information.

specifically firmicutes otus 14 and 16 and bacteroidetes otu 7 were observed in apparently healthy tissue but at much lower average abundance than in the disease lesions table s2.figure 3. phyla level microbial bar chart.

