M cells are known to transport a broad range of particulate materials including inert particles435657 and pathogens.4458 Recent work shows that the presence of M cells induced by Raji cells in a Caco-2 cell model increased the translocation of solid lipid nanoparti- cles ranging in size from 50 to 70 nm with different surface modifications.59 However transport through M cells does not necessarily mean that the nanoma- terials reach the bloodstream as M cells are closely associated with immune cells.

Interspersed between enterocytes are goblet cells that secrete mucus into the gut lumen and thereby provide an additional barrier to diffusion of particulates toward the epithelium.37 The extent to which mucus blocks particle diffusion depends on particle size and surface properties with smaller particles penetrating more and positively charged particles being mucoadhe- sive.37 The apical membrane of enterocytes is also covered with a complex glycocalyx composed of gly- cosylated proteins within the membrane which forms a size-selective barrier to the interaction of par- ticulate material with surface molecules.3839 The ability of the glycocalyx to block nanoparticle trans- location is determined by its thickness density nega- tive charge and renewal characteristics.40-42 Peyer's patches and other gut-associated lymphoid tissues accumulate particulate material due to the presence of antigen-sampling M cells at these sites which exhibit a remarkable capacity to transport material including proteins inert particles viruses and bacte- ria and deliver them to the underlying lymphoid cells.4344As an in vitro epithelial barrier model fully dif- ferentiated Caco-2 cells human epithelial colorectal adenocarcinoma cells are commonly used.

Especially for the oral exposure route the influence of gastrointestinal conditions on nanomaterials needs to be considered.Several in vitro models of the gastrointestinal epithelium have been developed ranging from mono- layers of a single cell type often Caco-2 cells to more complex co-cultures that for example incorpo- rate M cells and mucus-secreting cells.

Colloids Surf B Biointerfaces 2014 122324-331.DeLoid GM Cohen JM Pyrgiotakis G Pirela SV Pal A Liu J Srebric J Demokritou P. Advanced com- putational modeling for in vitro nanomaterial dosim- etry.

This together with the variable and chronic nature of intake of particulates adds to the challenge of risk assessment of nanoparticle ingestion.97Nanomaterial toxicity is commonly investigated in vitro in undifferentiated Caco-2 cells and less often in fully differentiated Caco-2 cells.

The latter better reflect the native GIT and are generally less sensitive in showing cytotoxicity51 or in producing cytokines in response to exogenous materials.98 Nevertheless recent studies have reported adverse responses to Ag NPs2199-101 and ZnO NPs98 in differentiated Caco-2 cells although others have attributed the effects of Ag NPs in differentiated Caco-2 cells including the Caco-2M cell co-culture model to Ag ions.102Clearly there is a need to study the effects of prolonged nanomaterial exposure in vitro.

Nanotoxicology 2016 101404-1414.Wang J Zhou G Chen C Yu H Wang T Ma Y Jia G Gao Y Li B Sun J et al.

Int J Mol Sci 2016 17509.Van den Brule S Ambroise J Lecloux H Levard C Soulas R De Temmerman PJ Palmai-Pallag MMarbaix E Lison D. Dietary silver nanoparticles can disturb the gut microbiota in mice.

J Phys Chem 2015 11920632-20641.Williams K Milner J Boudreau MD Gokulan K Cerniglia CE Khare S. Effects of subchronic exposure of silver nanoparticles on intestinal microbiota and gut-associated immune responses in the ileum of Sprague-Dawley rats.

Eur J Pharm Sci 2005 25455-465.des Rieux A Fievez V Theate I Mast J Preat V Schneider YJ.

