each box was randomly assigned to one of four treatments i diet without additions ii diet with the antibiotic rifampicin at 0.3 wv iii diet with a natural mixture of diterpene acids and iv diet with both antibiotic and diterpene acids.

colour of boxes signifies the experimental treatment control semi-artificial diet with ground norway spruce for 14 days antibiotic diet amended with rifampicin for 14 days reinfected after being fed with an antibiotic diet for 7 days these insects were fed diet amended with a weevil gut suspension for 7 days lines represent medians boxes comprise the 25-75th percentiles and whiskers denote the range colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.comfi gu re 3 degradation of the sodium salt of dehydroabietic acid dhaa by cultured bacteria isolated from hylobius abietis after 1 and 5 days of growth in lb medium.

in any case the enterobacteriaceae family is the most susceptible to antibiotic treat- ment suffering a drastic reduction in overall abundance compared to insects reared on their natural diet or an artificial diet devoid of antibiotics figure 4b.to explore the genetic basis of symbiont-mediated diterpene degradation in the pine weevil the three bacterial metagenomes sequenced in this study were screened for the presence of a genefi gu re 4 a family classification of the bacterial metagenome of pine weevils fed on norway spruce artificial diet and artificial diet with antibiotics respectively analysed with mg-rast.

however supplementing antibiotics into the artificial diet led to a near complete loss of dit genes in addition to disrupting the compo- sition of the bacterial associates of h. abietis figure 5.fi gu re 5 diterpene gene cluster martin  mohn 2000 present in the metagenome of pine weevils feeding on different diets norway spruce artificial diet and artificial diet amended with antibiotics.

the antibiotic containing semi-artificial diet was prepared by adding the broad-spectrum antibiotic rifampicin to the diet to a final concentra- tion of 0.3 wv.

control indi- viduals were fed on control semi-artificial diet for 14 days whereas antibiotic-treated individuals were fed on semi-artificial diet amended with the antibiotic rifampicin for 14 days.

reinfected indi- viduals were fed on the antibiotic diet for half of the experiment and then switched to a semi-artificial diet amended with a gut sus- pension of untreated weevils for the remaining time.

dna extraction and illumina-based metagenome sequencingfor one week a group of six weevils were reared on one of three different diets i norway spruce picea abies twigs ii artificial diet ad or iii artificial diet amended with the antibiotic rifampicin at 0.3 wv.

reinfection of the gut with the native commu- nity by supplementing the diet with a gut suspension of untreated individuals into the diet of antibiotic-treated insects rescued the insect's biodegradative capacity suggesting that gut microbes are responsible for the breakdown of such compounds within the host.

lines represent medians boxes comprise the 25-75 percentiles and whiskers denote the range anova p  .03feeding on their natural food source norway spruce compared to weevils feeding on an artificial diet as well as an artificial diet sup- plemented with antibiotics.

2016.the pine weevil microbial community remained unaltered after two weeks of beetles feeding on an artificial diet figure 4a indicat- ing that it is also resilient to changes in diet.

2007 2008. functional annotation of the bacterial metagenome in the present study revealed the presence of ten of the 19 known dit genes in weevils feeding on their natural food source as well as on an artificial diet figure 5. however the supplementation of antibi- otics in the artificial diet resulted in the loss of all but one dit gene figure 5.even with only 10 of 19 reported dit genes the members of theh.

semi-artificial and artificial diet preparation semi-artificial dietbark and cambium of norway spruce branches were manually removed from the wood and frozen in liquid nitrogen.

complete artificial dietthe diet used for seed-feeding pyrrhocorid bugs described in salem et al.

insects were provided with 100 mg of diet every day that was supplemented with 10 ll of gut suspension in the case of the reinfected treatment or pbs in the control.

