the differ- ential no sensitivity between the 2 staphylococcus species also substantiates previous work by carey et al showing a less potent no response from sinonasal epithelial cells to s epidermis when compared with that of s aureus.14 other bacteria can upregulate no scavengers or alter cellular respiratory function to evade the effects of no through changes in gene expression.43 however it is important to note that this resistance does not induce adaptive muta- tions in the bacteria as expansion of cultures that initially survive no treatment does not yield increasingly resistant cultures.27 of additional interest is the anti-biofilm effect of high-physiologic no on s aureus in contrast to the biofilm- enhancing effect of lower concentrations of no on the same organism.44 this phenomenon observed by jardeleza et al may help explain the low incidence of full bacterial eradi- cation as well as the concentration differences observed in the healthy and diseased microbiome.30 individuals who produce low-physiologic quantities of no may be exponen- tially more susceptible to overgrowth of these commensal organisms.beyond bacteria c albicans is a ubiquitous fungus that is both a commensal organism and opportunistic pathogen much like many of the bacteria we studied.24 our exper- iments showed that c albicans was more sensitive to no than any of the bacteria we tested and had a very narrow concentration range between its ic50 and mic.

rather no more often impairs bacterial proliferation to allow for other immune responses to act more efficiently and resolve disease with return to homeostasis.39 an example of this phenomenon is illustrated in the case of p aeruginosa in which no disrupts immune-resistant biofilm formation so that other immune defenses have unimpeded access to the bacterium.40 41 although some organisms are in fact readily killed by no12 22 it is antimicrobial eptides like b-defensins and other related compounds that have additional potent effects.31 32 previous experiments have also demonstrated that gram-negative bacteria have greater susceptibility than gram-positive bacteria to antimicrobial compounds including b-defensin 2.35 42 in our study p aeruginosa showed almost complete bacteriostasis when exposed to low levels of no and asl neither of which wassufficient alone to cause the same impedance of bacterial proliferation.

seventy-five microliters of diluted asl or deionized water was added to 75 mmoll of full-strength lb medium with s aureus or p aeruginosa at an od600 of 0.2 for a final od600 of approximatelycfus were counted at 0 and 3 hours and are shown in figure 4. asl was permissive of s aureus growth and no significant effects were observed.

a concentration of 30 mmoll no was slightly bactericidal in p aeruginosa yet this concentration was only bacteriostatic in s aureus.

however p aeruginosa growth was inhibited by asl and 6 mmoll no to a com- parable degree and the combination of asl and 6 mmoll no caused almost complete cessation of growth p  0.01 2-way anova n  3. the effects of asl and no werebommarito et al has demonstrated that there is variability in endogenous no levels among patients and individuals with crs with nasal polyps have significantly lower no concentrations in the sinonasal tract.30density control of bacteria by no is not entirely predicated on bacterial killing and elimination.

escherichia coli and salmonella enterica are affected in replication frequency but not in overall cell survival whereas other organisms such as burkholderia species and p aeruginosa are more readily killed by the effects of no.12 22-24 in this study we aimed to characterize the susceptibility of 4 com- mon airway bacteria and 1 fungus to no at physiologic concentrations.15 25 in addition we suspected that no may display synergy with other antibacterial compounds se- creted by sinonasal epithelial cells.

relative susceptibility of airway organisms to antimicrobial effects of nitric oxidealan d. workman ba1 ryan m. carey ba1 michael a. kohanski md phd2 david w. kennedy md2 james n. palmer md2 nithin d. adappa md2 and noam a. cohen md phd23background nitric oxide no is released in the airway as a critical component of innate immune defense against in- vading pathogenic organisms.

of note apical concentrations of no from 0 to 60 mmoll demonstrated no overt cytoxicity in human airway epithelial cells over a 6-hourfigure 2. susceptibility of log-phase s aureus s epidermis k pneumoniae and p aeruginosa to varying concentrations of no in lb media 0 mmoll 3 mmoll 6 mmoll and 30 mmoll.

1 at several distinct time intervals to deter- mine the effects of experimental manipulations on bacterial growth.susceptibility of bacterial species to nos aureus s epidermis k pneumoniae and p aeruginosa strains were grown overnight in lb broth and then diluted to an od600 of 0.1 prior to the start of the experiment.

p aeruginosa and c albicans were more sensitive to the effects of no at all concentrations tested whereas s aureus had intermediate initial sensitivity to low amounts of no followed by resis- tance to complete bacteriostasis at higher concentrations.

bitter secreted products fromcommon organisms such as s aureus s epidermis and pseudomonas aeruginosa are detected by bitter taste recep- tors of upper airway epithelial cells and elicit many of these downstream no responses.8 13 14 the no diffuses through the apical mucus into the offending organism where it pro- duces peroxynitrites and s-nitrosothiols that are destructive to bacterial components.15-17 dna replication machinery enzymes or virulence factors can all be affected by the no free radical.18 in addition to being directly antimicrobial no also speeds up ciliary beating and resultant mucocil- iary clearance mcc19 20 with movement of trapped organisms in the sinonasal tract to the oropharynx.21no can have bacteriostatic to bactericidal effects that may be species-specific in magnitude.

both od readings and colony forming units cfus were measured at varying time-points to evaluate for inhibitory effects of no.results p aeruginosa and c albicans were significantly more sensitive to no at physiologic concentrations typical of the human airway.

in this study we eval- uated the effects of no on 4 common airway bacteria and 1 fungus and examined the potential implications of discrepancies in sensitivity.methods staphylococcus epidermis staphylococcus au- reus klebsiella pneumoniae pseudomonas aeruginosa and candida albicans cultures were adjusted to a uniform op- tical density od and grown in log phase at 37degc with varying concentrations of no formed by deta nonoate.

this is in contrast to s aureus ic50 8.4 mmoll no and p aeruginosa ic50 9.0 mmoll no which showed stunting of growth in response to the lower no concentrations tested.

prioradditive rather than synergistic based on the absence of an observed statistical interaction between the 2 experimental manipulations.figure 4. susceptibility of log-phase s aureus and p aeruginosa to asl from ali cultures with and without the addition of 6 mmoll no.

