additional studies revealed that gnotobiotic mouse recipients of an iga bacterial consortium purified from the gut microbiota of undernourished children exhibited intestinal histopathology characterized by disruption of the intestinal epithelial barrier and weight loss these effects were prevented by administering two iga-targeted bacterial species from a healthy microbiota .the role of commensal microbiota in the growth of childrenas noted above there exists a fairly reproducible succession of intestinal microbiota as children age.

guerrant  vaccine 35 2017 6807-68126809colleagues in peru also shows associations of impaired intestinal barrier and absorptive function in young children with inflamma- tion lower apoa1 lower hdl and higher blood pressure as early as 3-5 years of age .biomarkers for environmental enteric dysfunctionthe critical importance of early recognition of children at risk of potentially lasting growth and developmental consequences in order to identify effective interventions has driven the tremendous need for simple and inexpensive biomarkers that can identify such children not to mention to help evaluate effective interventions.

the impact of pathogen exposure could represent direct epithelial injury or could be mediated by perturbations in the normal microbiota or combinations of both.c 2017 published by elsevier ltd. this is an open access article under the cc by license .introductionenteric diseases afflicting children in developing countries include acute and chronic diarrheal diseases enteric fever and the recently appreciated and still obscure disorder known as envi- ronmental enteric dysfunction eed.

for example evidence of alterations in choline tryptophan and energy metabolism can be seen in children with malnutrition as well as in the murine models noted below .animal models environmental enteric dysfunctionalthough never a substitute for careful clinical studies animal models can be very helpful in dissecting the roles of key patho- gens nutrient implications and mechanisms involved in these interacting causes of overt diarrhea growth or developmental impairment seen in children.

veillonella streptococcus and lactobacillus similarly diminish after the first two years .investigators at the university of maryland led by o. colin stine profiled the microbiota in the stools of 1300 children with moder- ate to severe diarrhea in the gems study compared with samples from 1735 matched control children without diarrhea.

chronic consequences on human health induced by microbial pathogens growth faltering among children in developing countriesjames p. nataro  richard l. guerrant a department of pediatrics university of virginia school of medicine charlottesville va 22908 united statesb department of medicine university of virginia school of medicine charlottesville va 22908 united statesa r t i c l e i n f o article historyavailable online 23 may 2017keywordsdiarrheaenvironmental enteric dysfunction growth falteringchild healtha b s t r a c t enteric infections continue to cause approximately 500000 childhood deaths annually worldwide.

these children were found to manifest delayed maz scores characteristic of younger children.

these results revealed a maturation of iga targeting in children such that by 24 months of age the patterns in children were similar to those of their mothers.

iga targeted bac- terial populations from the discordant twins were implanted into gnotobiotic mice mice colonized with the iga-targeted bacteria from children with kwashiorkor grew poorly compared with mice implanted by bacteria from the healthy children.

specifically children without l. salivarius in the stool had a very high risk of being symptomatic were infected with shi- gella children with even low abundance of l. salivarius were pro- tected from shigella-induced disease.

it has been shown in multiple studies that children in developing settings commonly harbor known enteric pathogens in the absence of overt diarrhea some of these carrier states have been linked to growth faltering.

even though the global diarrhea mortality remains unacceptably high at some 500000yr for children 5 yo it is likely that the far greater human and economic costs of enteric infections with or without overt diarrhea are on healthy child growth and development and perhaps long-term cognitive and metabolic consequences.

have also described associations of diarrhea with impaired cognition independently of growth in children in north india as well .several specific enteric protozoan and bacterial pathogens have been incriminated in growth and even later cognitive effects.

also addressed were the role of the intestinal microbiota in normal childhood growth among children in developing countries.

these data described a patterned progression of microbiota among children who followed a normal growth trajectory yielding robust maz scores.

