the alpha diversity indices indicated that the more di- verse bacterial otus were detected in the germs and cotyle- dons than those in sprouts nevertheless the sprouts contain similar diverse fungi with germs and cotyledons table .although the germs and cotyledons were divided from sur- face sterilized seeds and the sprouts are segregated fromenvironmental bacteria and fungi during germination diverse endophytes in these samples were detected.

humicola emericella and penicillium were the dominant fungal genera in germs and cotyledonstable 1summary of the features of valid tags of the samples of cotyledons pcotyledon germs pgerm of peanut seeds and peanut sprouts psprouttable 2summary of species richness estimators of the samples of cotyledons pcotyledon germs pgerm of peanut seeds and peanut sprouts psproutsamplesbacterial otusfungal otuscontained emericella as the dominant genus.

a total of 102 bacterial otus were obtained in cotyledons and 29 otus in germs and 4 bacterial otus coexisted in germs and cotyle- dons simultaneously.

the peanut seeds consisted of germs and cotyledons however the difference of bacterial and fungal flora between peanut germs and cotyledons is unknown.

unlike endophytic bacteria the sprouts and germs contained more fungal otu than cotyledons and 20 otus were found in germs and sprouts simultaneously 17 otus of cotyledons were still detected in sprouts fig.

our results suggested that the more diverse bacteria were detected in germs and cotyledons than those in sprouts never- theless the sprouts contain more diverse fungi than germs and cotyledons.

and 15 otus were detected in sprouts germs and cotyledons simultaneously.the community structure and composition of fungi and bacteriarepresentative bacterial sequences of each otu were assigned into the domains bacteria 99.99 of the total data set of which halothiobacillus dominated the overall bacterial genera 31.0 fig.

in the study 4 bacterial otus and 15 fungal otus were found in germs cotyledons and sprouts simultaneously.with the germination the dominant bacterial genera halothiobacillus and synechococcus were still the most de- tected genera in spouts.

the dominant fungal genera of germs such as humicola emericella and penicillium were still detected in sprouts and the emericella was detected in sprouts germs and cotyledons simultaneous- ly.

doi 10.1007s11356-017-9254-4endophytic bacterial and fungal communities transmitted from cotyledons and germs in peanut arachis hypogaea l. sproutsyali huang 1  zaoyuan kuang1  zujun deng2  ren zhang 1  lixiang cao 3received 10 october 2016  accepted 10 may 2017  published online 27 may 2017 springer-verlag berlin heidelberg 2017abstract seed-borne endophytes could be transmitted into sprouts.

with the germination 14 bacterial otus of cotyledons were still found in sprouts and 6 otus of germs were found in sprouts.

1 venn diagram illustration of the variation in bacterial otus of cotyledons pcotyledon germs pgerm of peanut seeds and peanut sprouts psproutfig.

3 phylogenetic diagram of bacterial taxa otus of cotyledons pcotyledon germs pgerm of peanut seeds and peanut sprouts psprouttransmit from seeds not from rhizosphere soils.

based on the endophytic bacterial and fungal community in peanut cotyledons germs and sprouts halothiobacillus strain with growth promotion was isolated.

the emericella was detected in sprouts germs and cotyledons simultaneously whereas the emericella detected in cotyledons were at low abundance.pot experimentsa pure culture of halothiobacillus was obtained and designated as sob4.

