finally in the daph daphnia microbiota treatment water-rinsed ephippia were placed in wells supplemented with a homogenate of whole adult daphnia with a normal microbiome as in sison-mangus et al.

thus given that the dia- pausing stage is a recurring phase of the life cycle of daphnia during which there is potential for host and essential symbionts to become decoupled we think that the process by which daphnia benefit from bacteria is better understood as an open system wong et al.

for statistical analysis see table 4previously found at high abundances in adult daphnia figure 5 qi et al.

sampling and plating water from the bottles of animals exposed to ephippia-associated bacteria experiment 2 showed that the bacteria initially carried on the animals could also persist in the external me- dium suggesting that the bacteria associated with ephippia are not necessarily dependent on daphnia but are rather in flux with the en- vironment similarly to observations in drosophila blum et al.

2015 in which genetic traits of daphnia might influence the composition of the environmentally acquired microbiota at some life stages and conversely possibly influence the microbial ecology of the larger en- vironment degans et al.

the carriage of bacteria in or on ephip- pia might have ecological consequences even if it does not result in the maintenance of specific partnerships--daphnia and bacteria from a source environment might co-disperse resulting in occa- sional patterns of co-occurrence that could be detected with meth- ods being developed in microbial biogeography falush et al.

2008 daphnia callens et al.

similarly closely related strains of limnohabitans bacteria appear to vary in their colonisation ability and effects on daphnia fitness peerakietkhajorn kato et al.

2015. the beneficial effects of microbiota on daphnia likely extend beyond general improvement of health and additionally encompass specific services like degradation of dietary proteins and polysaccha- rides callens et al.

we found a strong requirement for extracellular micro- biota in daphnia fitness sison-mangus mushegian  ebert 2015 but we did not explicitly investigate the relative importance of various plausible natural sources of microbiota in providing this benefit.here we set out to answer three questions i which presumably vertically acquired bacteria are present inside the closed ephippiumii is this set of bacteria sufficient to ensure normal functioning of the animal after emergence from diapause iii if the bacteria inside the resting egg case are not sufficient what additional bacteria are required we focused on identifying the minimal amount of bacte- rial exposure that results in normal health of daphnia hatchlings from resting eggs.

the marginally significant effect of exposure to acidovorax on hatching rates at warmed temperature and the improvement in survival and growth acidovorax-exposed animals suggest that bacte- ria internal to ephippia may be beneficial to daphnia even if they are not sufficient on their own for normal functioning or always viablefigure 5 relationships of ephippia-associated bacteria to bacteria found in lab-reared adult daphnia in a previous study otus shown in black font.

from the standpoint of experi- mental studies specifically in daphnia these results show that special efforts to maintain microbiota in laboratory conditions are likely un- necessary but that standardisation of microbiota may help to reduce experimental variation.we see however that not all strains associated with ephippia have equal fitness-restoring effects--arthrobacter failed to stably col- onise daphnia and animals exposed to this species did not receive any benefit compared to germ-free animals.

201887400-413.same host ferrari  vavre 2011 salem et al.

while in many sys- tems some vertical transmission of microbiota can be assumed due to physical proximity of parents and offspring dethlefsen mcfall-ngai  relman 2007 salem et al.

both scenarios have been observed in plants some plants transmit fungal symbionts into seeds albeit with imperfect mainte- nance while others form new associations after germination afkhami  rudgers 2008 hodgson et al.

