Susceptible mice showed decreased levels of Firmicutes and decreased FirmicutesBacter- oidetes ratio at the phylum level d. MR16-1 significantly attenuated a decreased level of Firmicutes and decreased FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio in susceptible mice after social defeat stress d.At the genus level susceptible mice showed increased levels of Staphylococcus and decreased levels of Butyricicoccus and Oscillospira .

In the 1 sucrose preference test MR16-1 significantly attenuated decreased sucrose preference in susceptible mice 3 and 6 days after a single dose f. The results suggest that intravenous injection of MR16-1 showed rapid and sustained antidepressant effects in a social defeat stress model.It was reported that peripheral but not brain IL-6 might be involved in the depression-like phenotypes in rodents.Thereforewe examined whether intracerebroventricular injection of MR16-1 showed antidepressant effects in the social defeat stress model .

Finally we examined the role of gut microbiota in the anti- depressant actions of MR16-1 in the social defeat stress model.MATERIALS AND METHODSAnimalsMale adult C57BL6 mice n  265 aged 8 weeks body weight 20-25 g Japan SLC Hamamatsu Japan and male CD1 mice n  40 aged 14 weeks body weight 40-45 g Japan SLC were used in the experiments.

Collectively it is likely that the blockade of the IL-6 receptor in the periphery may be involved in the antidepressant effects of MR16-1.Anti-inflammatory effects of MR16-1 in the serum of susceptible mice after social defeat stressTo examine the effects of MR16-1 on serum levels of pro- inflammatory cytokines in susceptible mice after social defeatFigure 3.

A recent study showed that syringaresinol a polyphenolic lignan significantly improved decreased FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio in middle-aged mice suggesting that syringaresinol may rejuvenate the immunesystem through modulation of gut integrity and microbiota diversity as well as composition in middle-aged mice.In this study we found decreased number of Firmicutes and decreased FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio in susceptible mice after social defeat stress suggesting that a decreased FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio might have a role in the depression-like phenotype.

In this study we found that the numbers of Butyricicoccus and Oscillospira decreased in susceptible mice after social defeat stress and that MR16-1 improved decreased numbers of Butyricicoccus and Oscillospira in these mice.

On day 11 a social avoidance test was performed to identify the subgroups of mice that were susceptible and unsusceptible to social defeat stress.

NS not significant.RESULTSAntidepressant effects of MR16-1 in the social defeat stress model To examine the antidepressant effects of MR16-1 in the social defeat stress model intravenous injection of MR16-1 or controlwas administered 60 min before the locomotion test 1a.No effect was observed in spontaneous locomotion in the four groups 1b.

Stress-susceptible bone marrow chimeras revealed increased social avoidance behavior after exposure to either sub-threshold repeated social defeat stress or a purely emotional stressor termed witness defeat.We also reported that alterations in the peripheral but not brain IL-6 might contribute to resilience versus susceptibility to inescapable stress in the rat learned helplessness model.These results suggest that periph- eral but not brain IL-6 might be involved in the depression-like phenotype in rodents.Thus it is unlikely that the absence of beneficial effects with intracerebroventricular administration may be related to a lack of drug penetration into the parenchymal brain tissues implicated in depression.

Serum levels of TNF-a IL-1b and IL-6 in susceptible mice were significantly higher than those in the control group 1 day after injection d. MR16-1 significantly attenuated the increased levels of TNF-a IL-1b and IL-6 in susceptible mice 1 day after injection d. Furthermore MR16-1 significantly attenuated the increased levels of TNF-a and IL-1b in susceptible mice 7 days after injection f. However there were no changes of serum IL-6 levels among the four groups 7 days after injection 2g.Levels of PSD-95 and GluA1 in the brain regions after a single injection of MR16-1We performed western blot of the synaptogenesis markers PSD-95 and GluA1 in the brain regions which were collected7 days after intravenous injection of MR16-1 or control.

