this small pri- mate could be a valid model for the study of c. difficile infections and effective treatments including fmt in human patients.abbreviationsfmt faecal microbiota transplantation c. difficile clostridium difficileacknowledgementsthe authors thank masakado saiki masayuki inada taku koike and reiko nakatomi for the data collection.fundingthis work was supported by brain mapping by integrated neurotechnologies for disease studies brainminds at riken japan and the science research promotion fund for private university at azabu university japan from the ministry of education culture sports science and technology of japan mext.availability of data and materialsthe dataset supporting the conclusions of this article is included within the article.authors' contributionsyy designed and executed the experiments yy and sk wrote the main manuscript text and prepared the figures and hm tk and ai coordinated the manuscript writing.

bmc veterinary research 2017 13150doi 10.1186s12917-017-1070-zfaecal transplantation for the treatment ofclostridium difficile infection in a marmosetyumiko yamazaki12  shinpei kawarai3 hidetoshi morita4 takefumi kikusui5 and atsushi iriki26backgroundclostridium difficile is a major cause of severe diarrhoea especially in hospitalized patients receiving antibiotic therapy metronidazole is the first choice for c. diffi- cile infections  in humans and small animals however some patients suffer from recurrent infections after repeated treatments faecal microbiota transplantation fmt is an emer- gent treatment for diarrhoea caused by various patho- gens although the success rate of the therapy is variable and the techniques applied in the studies vary widely a few studies have reported immediate recov- ery after several recurrent c. difficile infections e.g.

due to the chronic diarrhoea the animal experienced severe weight loss bw 360 g approximately 60 g lost compared to the pre-surgery weight and was given an oral nutritional supplement elental p ea pharma tokyo japan 2 g per day and a lactobacillus preparation bioymbuster kyoritsu seiyaku tokyo japan 50mgh p.o.

at this point we tested the faecal sample techlab c diff quick chek complete alere chiba japan and confirmed that it was positive for c. difficile antigen and toxin.

thus we administered oral fmt to an animal with chronic diarrhoea caused by c. difficile this is a novel method for the treatment of gut microbiota disturbances in this species.case presentationa male colony-bred common marmoset weighing 420 g that was 2 y and 2 m of age experienced chronicc the authors.

c. difficile infection has not been observed in other animals in that breeding room.in addition to the cessation of diarrhoea after the fmt treatment the marmoset recovered from sinusitis and bilateral dacryocystitis which had developed after the surgery for unknown reasons.

with no recurrence during the 10 months after fmt.discussion and conclusionschronic and severe diarrhoea caused by c. difficile infection was terminated after 4 days of oral intake of faecal microbiota collected from healthy individuals.

faeces from healthy individ- uals were administered orally by mixing with the pellet food cms-1m clea japan tokyo japan.

we scored each day by the worst stool of the day for instance if both normal faeces and diarrhoea occurred during a day then we recorded diar- rhoea for that day.the marmoset received metronidazole flagyl 250 mg shionogi osaka japan 25 mgh every 24 h for 10 days 2 5-day periods separated by 2 weekend days.

although the c. difficile test was still positive for antigen and toxin.

although the tests were still positive for c. difficile antigen and toxin.

finally the test results were nega- tive for both c. difficile antigen and toxin after thefourth day of fmt treatment after fmt afmt-1 in fig.

for example we do not know the origin of the c. difficile infection.

this information would support a more detailed analysis of the healthy micro- biome of this animal.in conclusion fmt appeared to be effective for the treatment of recurrent c. difficile infection in a captive marmoset as seen in human patients.

risk factors for clostridium difficile carriage and c. difficile-associated diarrhea in a cohort of hospitalized patients.

