extrusion moisture significantly affected water-extractable b-glucan we-bg in the extrudates with samples processed at 15 moisture lowest and 21 moisture highest having the highest concentration of we-bg.

moisture contents ranging from 20 to 29 in waxy rice flour and 16-25 in rice flour caused structural and physicochemical changes in the extrudates with the lowest moisture condition causing more damage to the native crystalline structure accompanied by complete gelatinization of the starch granules compared to higher moisture processing conditions .

1. utilization of water-extractable b-glucan during in vitro fecal fermentation of unprocessed whole grain oat flour up and extrudates produced at different moisture contents 15 18 and 21 error bars show standard error bars marked with different letters show significant differences among samples within time point p  0.05 n  2.no significant difference was detected between we-bg processed at 15 moisture compared with 21 moisture .

this trend was observed in our previous study  where we speculated that the higher we-bg at lower moisture was due to the increased severity of the extrusion process and at higher moisture the increased we-bg was due to better hydration of the flour matrix.effects of extrusion moisture on fermentation of water-extractable b- glucanabout 95 of the we-bg was metabolized within the first 8 h of fermentation regardless of extrusion processing conditions .

although there was no significant difference in we-bg between samples processed at 15 moisture and those processed at 21 moisture at the beginning of fermentation after 8 h of fermentation more we-bg remained in fermentation media in samples processed at 15 moisture compared with the extrudates processed under different conditions.

microbiota grown on extrudates processed at 18 moisture had the highest production of acetate and total scfa whereas bacteria grown on extrudates processed at 15 and 18 moisture had the highest butyrate production.

moreover after 8 h of fermentation samples processed at 15 moisture resulted in the highest production of butyrate whereas samples processed at 18 moisture resulted in the highest acetate and total scfa production.

moisture content during extrusion of oats impacts the initial fermentation metabolites and probiotic bacteria during extended fermentation by human fecal microbiotasandrayee brahma steven a. weier devin j. rosea department of food science and technology university of nebraska-lincoln lincoln ne usab the food processing center university of nebraska-lincoln lincoln ne usac department of agronomy  horticulture university of nebraska-lincoln lincoln ne usaa r t i c l e i n f o keywordsresistant starchin vitro fermentationb-glucanshort chain fatty acids bifidobacterium lactobacillusa b s t r a c t extrusion exposes flour components to high pressure and shear during processing which may affect the dietary fiber fermentability by human fecal microbiota.

the objective of this study was to determine the effect of flour moisture content during extrusion on in vitro fermentation properties of whole grain oats.

extrudates were processed at three moisture levels 15 18 and 21 at fixed screw speed 300 rpm and temperature 130 degc.

after the first 8 h of fermentation more we-bg remained in fermentation media in samples processed at 15 moisture compared with the other conditions.

also extrusion moisture significantly affected the production of acetate butyrate and total scfa by the microbiota during the first 8 h of fermentation.

after 24 h of fermentation samples processed at 15 moisture supported lower bifidobacterium counts than those produced at other conditions but had among the highest lactobacillus counts.

thus moisture content during extrusion significantly affects production of fermentation metabolites by the gut microbiota during the initial stages of fermentation while also affecting probiotic bacteria counts during extended fermentation.introductionwhole grain oats are widely consumed in the form of ready-to-eat rte extruded breakfast cereals.

another study reported an 18 increase in the we-bg in extrudates processed at 15 moisture condition compared to 18 and 21 .

