it should be noted that marinating temperature and time did not significantly p  0.05 affect ph values.organic acids analysismean values - standard deviation of four tested samples.cases below the detection limit of the plating method 1.0 log cfug even after short marinating time 1 h e. regarding marinating time marination for 1 h was less effective against the indigenous microbiota compared to higher marinating time in- tervals.

b. thermosphacta seemed to be affected by marinating temperature since lower populations were observed after marinating at 20 oc for most marinades and time intervals.sensory analysisthe effect of different marinades and marinating conditions on the sensory properties of cooked marinated chicken is shown in .

nychas.. it should be noted that limited information is available on i marinated chicken meat and marinades con- taining organic acids as active ingredients against microorganismsii the shelf life of marinated poultry meat given that it is a highly perishable foodstuff a'o'  stored under refrigerated conditions  and iii the ef- fect of marinating conditions marinating temperature and time on the microbial succession and physicochemical profile of chicken meat.

it can be inferred that higher marination times 6 and 9 h were strongly correlated with higher concentration of acids such as citric acetic malic and tar- taric while lactic acid was the acid with the highest contribution in the first 3 h of marination aee.discussionthe active substances of tested marinades e.g.

each of the marinades was characterized by a distinguishable organic acid profile while the discrimination of the samples based on organic acid concentration between low 1 and 3 and high 6 and 9 marinating time was feasible.

lactic acid presented a significant decrease 1.5e2.5 mgg from the lowest to the highest marinating time intervals.in the case where different marinades were combined pl pv the concentration of the measured organic acids was approxi- mately the average of the concentration found in samples that were marinated with one main ingredient only po le vi.the results of the pca analysis that visualize the discrimination among marinating times for the five different marinades are pre- sented in .

3.1 at ph 2.4.moreover during marination anaerobic rather than aerobic conditions prevailed that may have affected the microbial inhibi- tory dynamics of organic acids .the initial microbiota of fresh chicken meat found in this study is in line with previously published data  e however few studies have been focused on the effect of marination on the indigenous microbiota of chicken meat .

it can be concluded that marinating time affected the indigenous microbiota and the sensory characteristics of chicken meat while pomegranate could be a promising marinating ingredient from a microbiological and physicochemical perspective.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionpoultry meat production and consumption have been rapidly increased in many parts of the world in the last years whereas per capita consumption is expected to grow continuously  probably due to its low price nutritional characteristics e.g.

in addition marination with apple cider vinegar led to an undesirable tenderization of the chicken meat score3 that was significantly p  0.05 morethe concentration of the organic acids detected in untreated samples was 0.08 -0.01 0.7-0.04 5.6 -0.28 0.1 -0.01 and2.2 -0.03 mgg for citric succinic lactic acetic and butyric acid respectively.the range of organic acids concentration in marinated chicken meat samples is presented in .

pc 1 could be related to marination time since a clear transition was noticeable from the right to the left part of the plot corresponding to low and high marination times respectively.

the concentration of citric acid which is the main acid in pomegranate juice did not exceed the amount of 2.5 mgg even after 9 h of marination.

population after marination in lemon juice 4.6 citric acid was in accordance with who re- ported reduction up to 2.6 log cfucm2 after treatment in 5 citric acid.

similar results with pomegranate marination 1.8 citric acid have been reported by who observed 1.4 log unit decrease after treatment in 2 citric acid.

food microbiology 66 2017 141e149table 3 continued intense after marination for longer time 6 and 9 h. similarly le samples were scored as extremely tenderized score 3 but only after marinating at 20 oc for 6 and 9 h respectively.

as far as marinating time is concerned the low ph of the marinades resulted in significant reduction p  0.05 of microbial counts in many cases even after only one hour of marination.

