association between oxidative status and the composition of intestinal microbiota along the gastrointestinal tractmarianna gyuraszova alexandra kovalcikova roman gardlik institute of molecular biomedicine faculty of medicine comenius university 811 08 bratislava slovakiaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 6 september 2016accepted 19 april 2017a b s t r a c t studies have shown that the microbiota along the gastrointestinal tract git plays an important role when it comes to the maintenance of its proper functions.

in summary we offer some insight into the differences between the oxidative status along the git of rats and some advice concerning supportive antioxidant therapy of gastrointestinal diseases.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.backgroundmany studies have shown that intestinal microbiota plays an important role in maintaining proper function of the gastrointesti- nal tract git.

it has been shown that aopp contributes to the progression of ibd and that they cause intestinal epithelial cell death and intestinal tissue injury .

the continuous formation of ros in the git is the result of the interaction between intestinal mucosa symbiotic bacteria and dietary factors.

the continuous formation of ros in the git is the result of the interaction between intestinal mucosa symbiotic bacteria and dietary factors .

simi- larly in chicken it has been shown that the major groups of the chicken ileum and caecum microbiota are lactobacilli enterococcus cecorum and butyrate producing bacteria .another study which dealt with human intestinal microbiota has shown that microbiota in the jejunum differ from the ileum the ascending colon and the rectum.

intestinal bacteria catalyze the reaction of amine with nitrite to produce nitrosamine which rapidly induces oxidative stress .

because lactobacilli are able to produce catalase an endogenous antioxidant and are abundant in the small intestine we hypothesized that antioxidant capacity measured by ferric reducing ability would be the highest here.

however the disruption of normal cellular homeostasis by free radicals has been described in a vast number of gastrointestinal disorders such is reflux gastri- tis enteritis ibd and cancers that are associated with them pan- creatitis liver cirrhosis and the gastrointestinal complications of diabetes.

mucosa-associated bacteria in the human gastrointestinal tract are uniformly distributed along the colon and differ from the community recovered from feces.

intestinal microbiota plays an important role in the development of local and systemic immunity.

it has been shown that intestinal dysbiosis is associated with the worsening of renal failure .

we have previously shown that antioxidative gene therapy may be effective for the alleviation of experimentally induced colitis in mice and rats .composition of the intestinal microbiota along the gitdicksved et al.

who perfomed a molecular analysis of the human intestinal microbiota have shown that in the ileal microbiota streptococci lactobacilli 'gammaproteobacteria' the enterococcus group and the bacteroides group are the most abundant.

assessment of microbial diversity along the feline intestinal tract using 16s rrna gene analysis.

