microbiota source impact in vitro metabolite colonic production and anti- proliferative effect of spent coffee grounds on human colon cancer cells ht- 29angelica maria hernandez-arriaga b. dave oomah rocio campos-vegaa programa de posgrado en alimentos del centro de la republica propac research and graduate studies in food science school of chemistry universidad autonoma de queretaro 76010 santiago de queretaro qro mexicob retired formerly with the national bioproducts and bioprocesses program pacific agri-food research centre agriculture and agri-food canada summerland bc v0h1z0 canadaa r t i c l e i n f o chemical compounds studied in this article chlorogenic acid pubchem cid 1794427 gallic acid pubchem cid 370catechin pubchem cid 9064 caffeic acid pubchem cid 689043rutin pubchem cid 5280805 p-coumaric pubchem cid 637542ascorbic acid pubchem cid 54670067 inulin pubchem cid 16219508keywordsspent coffee groundsin vitro colonic fermentation body weighthuman colon cancer oxidative stress apoptosisa b s t r a c t human gut flora-mediated non-digestible fraction of spent coffee grounds hgf-ndscg was evaluated for its chemopreventive effect and molecular mechanisms involved on human colon adenocarcinoma ht-29 cell survival using two different microbiota source lean l and overweight ow.

similar relatively stable ph has been reported throughout the incubation 0.46 units' difference between 0 and 72 h of black tea and red winegrape juice polyphenols by human intestinal microbiota .ndscg fermented with overweight microbiota exhibited similar phpatterns to the lean fermentation except for the significant ph reduction for the lean microbiota 0-6 h. this ph reduction is in accordance with our previous study where colon fermentation of hgf-ndscg showed high fermentability 75 and scfas production after 6 h with inoculum from normal donor longer fermentation incubation time boostedfavoredstimulated propionate production propiogenic fer- mentation .

taken to- gether the study demonstrate that scg has an inhibiting effect against crc cells its human gut fermented non-digestible fraction using lean normal microbiota effectively regulates apoptosis by attenuating oxi- dative stress in human colon adenocarcinoma ht-29 cells.

cells in the logarithmic growth phase were collected and cultured in 96-well plates at a density of 1 x 104 cellswell under the growth conditions indicated above for 24 h. the medium was changed by adding dmemmedium containing 0.5 bovine serum albumin bsa sigma-aldrich canada ltd. and different concentrations 1 2.5 10 20 30 and 40 dissolved in dmem 0.5 bsa of 100 fermented l or owhgf- ndscg extracts or untreated cells 0ml 100 as control and incubated for 24 h.after the incubation cells were washed twice with pbs and incubated for 10 min at 37 degc in 50 ml of crystal violet staining solution 0.5 wv crystal violet 4 wv formaldehyde 30 vv ethanol and 0.17 wv nacl and cell viability determined according to the procedure of .

this cytostatic effect may be due to changes in cell morphology stimulating cell proliferation  andor cell cycle specificity where only cells in the g1- and g2-phases are delayed and prevented from entering mitosis growth arrest and apoptosis is induced after a concentration threshold  .

the absorbance was immediately monitored at 490 nm.the enzyme immunoassay elisa kit oxiselecttm 8-iso-prostaglandinf2a 8-iso-pgf2a cell biolabs inc. san diego ca was used to determine lipid peroxidation of lc50hgf-ndscg-treated cell lysates according to the manufacturer's instructions.total glutathione oxidizedreduced glutathione form gssggsh content in lc50hgf-ndscg-treated cells was measured with a com- mercial colorimetric assay kit oxiselecttm cell biolabs inc. san diego ca according to the manufacturer's instructions.

gallic acid release was similar during colon fermentation with lean and overweight microbiota 70 68 and 90 for the lean and 68 62 and 94 of the original content for the overweight microbiota after 6 12 and 12 h fermentation respectively and comparable with those reported  for scg flavonoids for normal microbiota 58 64 and 95 of the original content after 6 12 and 24 h respectively.

in contrast rutin present in lean microbiota colon digest increased with fermentation time with 36 higher amount released after 24 h than at 6 h. the lean microbiota also contained a small amount of p-coumaric acid after 6 h fermentation.

apoptosis of colon cancer ht-29 cells depended on the microbiota source with the lean microbiota expressing a low lethal concentration 50 lc50l-hgf-ndscg  13.5. we demonstrate that ndscg and its colonic metabolite from lean microbiota induced ht-29 cell apoptosis by reducing catalase and 8-iso-prostaglandin f2a as biomarkers of in vivo oxidative stress as the primary mechanism underlying its overall chemoprotection against colon cancer.introductionmexico is among the country with the highest prevalence of obesity and diabetes that is strongly predicated by body-mass index and a major reason for the country to introduce its national strategy for overweight obesity and diabetes to attenuate diet-induced obesity .

after 24 h the ldh activity in the supernatant was 76.4 - 2.52 unitsl in controls and 67.5 - 2.17 unitsl in lc50l-hgf-ndscg treated ht-29 cells n  3. thus ldh release was not significantly different between control and treatment indicating that lc50l-hgf-ndscg did not induce cell deterioration.lc50lhgf-ndscg significantly reduced biomarkers of in vivo oxidative stress catalase p  0.0167 and 8-iso-prostaglandin f2a p  0.0001 in ht-29 cells .

assays were performed in triplicate wells and results expressed as percent survival compared to control.tunel assaydna fragmentation indicator of cell apoptosis of lc50hgf-ndscg- treated cells was determined with an in situ cell detection kit roche molecular biochemicals basel switzerland according to the manufac- turer's instruction.

catechin exerts weak growth inhibitory and apoptotic activities in ht-29 color- ectal cancer cells  although present in high concentration in in vitro colonic fermentation of ndscg with human microbiota.

catechin is also partly converted to epicatechin during human fecal fermentation   and increases butyric acid without affecting propionic acid in the fermentation system  .

1. cell survival inhibition of ht-29 human colon carcinoma cells after 24 h of incubation with owhgf-ndscg or lhgf-ndscg.

interestingly most anti-inflammatory effects of green tea are mediated by egcg on healthy human intestinal cells iec- 6 suggesting their potential therapeutic utility in the treatment prevention of inflammatory diseases .conclusionour study showed variable response of non-digested scg fraction fermented by human gut flora from leannormal and overweight female donors.

