other non-fermented dairy foods such as low-fat ice cream chocolate mousse coconut flan or infant milk formula have also been supplemented with probiotic strains        .probiotic microorganisms are generally lab belonging to the species lactobacillus acidophilus l. gasseri l. helveticus l. johnsonii l. paracasei l. reuteri l. plantarum l. rhamnosus and l. fermentum while members of the genus bifidobacterium are also used e.g.

on the basis of the currently available literature probiotics can balance intestinal microbiota and thereby regulate proper intestinal function and be effective in the prevention or treatment of several gastrointestinal disorders such as infectious diarrhea antibiotic-related diarrhea irritable bowel syndrome or crohn's disease   other examples of health benefits promoted by probiotics supplied via dairy products are inmmunomodulatory effects l. casei crl431 reduction of serum cholesterol level l. reuteri ncimb 30242 and antihypertensive effects l. plantarumtensiatm      .probiotics are defined as 'live micro-organisms which when consumed in adequate amounts confer a health benefit on the host'  .

a number of food-grade lab and bifidobacteria were reported to produce cla in milk products     as is the case of lactococcus lactis lmg l. rhamnosus c14 l. casei crl431 l. acidophilus lac1 l. plantarum-2b.

delbrueckii l. buchneri l. plantarum l. helveticus streptococcus thermophilus and lactococcus lactis     .

bulgaricus l. plantarum l. rhamnosus l. acidophilus lactococcus lactis ors.

in addition other dairy starter cultures industrially used in the manufacture of fermented dairy products e.g.

similarly l. amylovorus crl887 can be used for natural folate bio-enrichment of fermented milk  .the deficiency of cobalamin vitamin b12 can be common particularly in vegetarians who avoid ingestion of animal protein and use soymilk as an alternative to dairy milk  .

89 1393-1401. walther b. karl j. p. booth s. l. and boyaval p. 2013. menaquinones bacteria and the food supply the relevance of dairy and fermented food products to vitamin k requirements.

evolusqr is available in the market as a l. helveticus fermented milk -produced in finland- proven to decrease the systolic blood pressure in hypertensive subjects due to the actions of l. helveticus bioactive peptides  .

ace inhibitory peptides have been isolated from a variety of fermented dairy products including cheese fermented milks and yogurt    .

lacticin 3147 has the potential to be employed in the treatment of clostridium difficile diarrhea and to eliminate the pathogen when added to an anaerobic fecal fermentation  .enzymeslactic acid bacteria associated to dairy fermentations possess enzymes which can be produced in situ during fermentation of dairy foods and have bioactive potential on the consumer.

the appropriate level of evidence for determining a health benefit for probiotics should always be put ahead of commercial and labeling industrial interests.challenges in industry and concluding remarksa goal of the dairy industry is to develop novel dairy products with increased nutritional andor health promoting properties.

ayr blackwell publishing ltd. tamime a. y. saarela m. korslund sodergaard a. mistry v. v. and shah n. p. 2005. production and maintenance of viability of probiotic micro-organisms in dairy products in probiotic dairy products ed.

as an example inactivated and dead l. rhamnosus gg cells can maintain immunological and health-promoting effects    .bioactive compounds derived from microbesmicroorganisms involved in dairy fermentations can produce biologically active molecules and enzymes giving the final food product an additional health value.

33 2-10. arques j. l. rodriguez e. langa s. landete j. m. and medina m. 2015. antimicrobial activity of lactic acid bacteria in dairy products and gut effect on pathogens.

