within the class bacilli bacteria belonging to the order lactobacillales were detected from clones of the sample from the ibd patient 4 and the colon cancer patient 1. within the class clostridia individual blast matches were mainly tofigure 2. abundance of major phyla in healthy subjects veg vegetarian non veg non-vegetarian a patient with inflam- matory bowel disease ibd and a patient with colon cancer ca colon.the genera clostridium ruminococcus eubacterium and roseburia .discussionthe present study aimed to assess gut microbial diversity in healthy indian adults and patients with colon carci- noma and ibd using a metagenomic approach.

were found in 25 28 patients with colon cancer while no other group was positive for clostridium spp.microbial community structureconstruction of clonal librariesto characterize the microbial community in human stool 16s rdna gene clonal libraries of gut bacteria were constructed using the sequences amplified by the universal primer sets 27f and 1492r for 16s rdna.one sample from each group was randomly selected for sequencing a healthy adult on a vegetarian diet a 44-year-old female sample code b1-10 a healthy adult on a non-vegetarian diet a 25-year-old male b2-02 an ibd patient a 57-year-old male d1-09 and a colon carcinoma patient a 42-year-old male d2-03.sequencing of clonal librariesthe sequenced clones from the four stool samples from each group of participants belonged to the following phyla of the domain bacteria proteobacteriabacteroidetesfirmicutes actinobacteria and verrucomicrobiota.the dominant phylum from the clones of the sample from the healthy vegetarian b1-10 was firmicutes 38 followed by bacteroidetes 17. the phylum of 43 of bacterial clones from this group remained unclas- sified.

this study is designed to understand the gut microbiota and their metabolic end-products in healthy vegetar- ian and non-vegetarian adults and diseased ibd and colon cancer patients and to understand the micro- bial diversity in the indian population.materials and methodsthe study was conducted at the department of microbiology all india institute of medical sciences aiims new delhi india in collaboration with the energy research institute teri new delhi india.ethics and consentethical clearance for the study was obtained by the institutional ethics committee of aiims new delhi india ethical clearance reference numbers iecnp- 3652011 and rp-022012.

however 16s rdna sequencing of all clonal libraries is highly time consuming and costly in a resource-limited setting .colon carcinoma patient versus healthy adultcomparison of the microbiota between the healthy non-vegetarian adult male and the colon carcinoma patient who was also on a non-vegetarian diet showed that the stool sample from the colon cancer patient had a higher percentage of bacteroidetes than firmicutes but a lower bacteroidetes firmicutes ratio than that in healthy adults.

clostridia 85 negativicutes 12 and bacilli 3. sequences from bacteroidetes from all four samples belonged to the class bacteroidia the predominant family being prevotellaceae which was 79 in the healthyfigure 1. ribosomal database project analysis of the gut microflora through sequencing of 16s rdna clonal libraries in a healthy subject a patient with inflammatory bowel disease ibd and a patient with colon cancer.vegetarian 98 in the healthy non-vegetarian and 83 in the colon cancer patient.

a p value  0.05 was considered statistically significant.resultsin this study we have recruited a total of 32 subjects eight subjects from different population subsets groups including healthy adults on a vegetarian diet healthy adults on a non-vegetarian diet patients with ibd and patients with colon carcinoma.

imbalance in the composition of gut microbial communities isassociated with the development of a number of gastrointestinal disorders such as inflammatory bowel disease ibd and colon carcinoma .dysbiosis of the gut microbiota is associated with the pathogenesis of both intestinal disorders includ- ing ibd irritable bowel syndrome and colon cancer and extraintestinal disorders including allergy asthma metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular dis- ease .

deepak bamola arnab ghosh raj kishor kapardar banwari lal simrita cheema priyangshu sarma and rama chaudhryadepartment of microbiology all india institute of medical sciences new delhi india bmicrobial biotechnology division the energy and resources institute new delhi indiaarticle historyreceived 22 december 2016accepted 17 april 2017keywordsindian vegetarian colon cancer ibd gut microbiota indiaintroductionthe human gastrointestinal tract is one of the major surfaces for microbial colonization with an estimated bacterial cell count of 1011-1012 per gram of content in the colon  representing approximately 70 of all microbes in the human body .

in the sample from the healthy non-vegetarian b2-02 the major phylum was bacteroidetes 92 followed by firmicutes 5. clones from the sample from the ibd patient d1-09 fell primarily into the phylum bacteroidetes 60 followed by verrucomicrobiota 25 and firmicutes 13. the most common bacterial phylum from the sample from the colon carcinoma patient d2-03 was bacteroidetes 59 followed by firmicutes 28 and actinobacteria 5 .

a higher per- centage of individuals from both healthy control groups harbored lactobacilli in their stool compared to the colon carcinoma and ibd groups as detected by con- ventional culture.

were found in three out of eight samples from colon cancer patients and no pathogenic flora was detected in healthy con- trols by conventional culture methods.the present study had some limitations.

710.frank dn st. amand al feldman ra et al.

the most common families of class bacteroidia from the ibd patient were bacteroidaceae 54 and rikenellaceae 35. sequences of the phyla verrucomicrobiota and actinobacteria were detected only in samples fromthe ibd patient d1-09 and colon carcinoma patient d2-03 respectively.

a reduction in the proportion of bacteroidetes with respect to firmicutes was also observed in our ibd patient who was on a non-vege- tarian diet compared to the healthy non-vegetarian control but we did not find an increase in proteobacteria and actinobacteria compared to the healthy non-vegetarian adult.

patients included in the study were also classified into two groups patients with ibd and those with colon carci- noma.

