the results showed that the bacterial community in soil was most affected by atrazine and diuron treatments.the permanova test showed that the time had the major influence on the bacterial dynamics r  1.56 p  0.0001 fol- lowed by the class of herbicide r  0.83 p  0.0001. overall it was observed that each herbicide might influence a specific community of microorganisms and some of them are able tosurvive in a contaminated environment moreira and siqueira  silveira and freitas  andrighetti et al.

due to this dgge was performed in order to evaluate changes in the compo- sition of the soil microbiota after application of the herbi- cides atrazine diuron and 24-d. the results demonstrated shifts on the bacterial community in accordance to time ofherbicides persistence on soil and the class of the herbicide ap- plied in soil.through permanova test it was observed that the per- sistence of the herbicide in soil was the major factor influ- encing the distribution of the bacterial community in soil r  2.8 p  0.0001 and a lower effect observed was related to the class type of herbicide r  1.3 p  0.006. in additionthe permanova results showed that the distribution of the bac- terial community structure was also influenced by an interac- tion of these factors persistence and class of herbicide r  0.2 p  0.0003.in the pcoa which indicates the distribution of the bacterial community it was observed that the dynamics of this commu- nity followed a gradient in the first 4 weeks of experiment eval- uation fig.

in this context the community might vary according to the persistence of the xenobiotic in soil el fantroussi et al.

in this context the community must be resilient to achieve the same level of stability as before the fire  wertz degrange and prosser  wertz et al.

those assumptions corroborate the results obtained in this work since an increase in the bacterial richness was observed.some authors describe that pesticides did not significantly affect the community abundance but they affected the com- munity structure possibly due to the persistence of pesticide- degrading bacteria girvan et al.

however according to other studies pesticides can adversely affect the composition of the microbial community if applied in excess rates than rec- ommended tu et al.

in conclusion the results showed that the selective pressure exerted by the presence of these herbicides altered the composition of the local microbiota being atrazine and diuron that most significantly affected the bacterial community in soil and the herbicide 24-d was the one that less altered the microbial community and that bacterial community was reestablished first.keywords pesticides microbiota soil dgge 16s rrnaintroductionthe soil is a strong economic resource for agriculture livestock and industry and its conservation is essential for the mainte- nance of life.

furthermore the richness of the bacterial community based on the number of bands observed on the dgge was determined and the differences between samples were analyzed by anova followed by tukey's test p  0.05.results and discussionthe soil microbial community suffers a great influence of the human action such as intense cultivation and input of herbi- cides to control undesired plants in a cultivation system and it has been ascribed to the influence of distinct xenobiotics in soil somerville and greaves  to' tola and chaer  moreira and siqueira  however few studies have been conducted to evaluate the impact of different herbicides on the bacterial community dynamics in soil.

these species vary according to the seasons and are directly connected to the water system the climate of the re- gion the soil structure and the plant residues content zilli et al.

as result of this knowledge the convention on biological diversity recognized the importance of soil biodiversity for ecosystem functioning and its large rep- resentation in the world's biodiversity cluzeau et al.

this herbicide acts as a growth reg- ulator presenting an effect similar to the auxin hormone and according to the world health organization who this com- pound is rated as toxicity ii level.besides the environmental concern pesticides also cause public health problems such as reproductive disorders endocrine problems neurotoxicity aneuploidy and car- cinogenicity since they are becoming more critical and frequentbortolozzi et al.

bukowska  burns and swaen rajkovic et al.

santosand martinez  shelley et al.

atamaniuk et al.

coady et al.

