thus the anterior migration of promastigotes that is essen- tial to their differentiation and positioning for successful transmission by bite results in exposure to an especially high sugar concentration in the thoracic midgut and may explain why the early growth of promastigotes in the abdominal midgut was normal in the antibiotic-treated flies and why even during late-stage infections the survivaldefect was confined to the promastigotes that had migrated to the most anterior aspects of the thoracic midgut.

in addition promastigotes undergo a sequence of development in the vectorthese authors contributed equally to this work.midgut culminating in their differentiation to infective metacyclic promastigotes that are uniquely pre-adapted for their transition to life in the vertebrate host.

infection with lmry produced an initial growth of promastigotes in the midgut over the first 3 days that survived excre- tion of the digested blood meal days 4-6 followed by another stageof growth and differentiation into non-dividing infective stagemetacyclic promastigotes days 9-14 figure 1a.

flies were artificially fed through a membrane on mouse blood seeded with 4 x 106ml lmry promastigotes and dissected at the indicated times postinfection and scored for the number and developmental stage of promastigotes under a haemocytometer.

flies were treated or not with ps in the blood meal and in the sugar meals composed of 30 or 15 sucrose and evaluated for the total number of promastigotes a or metacyclic promastigotes b at days 7 and 13 postinfection p.i.. in independent experiments infected flies were treated or not starting on day 5 p.i.

lmry promastigotes were cultured at 26 degc in complete medium 199 to mid-logarithmic phase washed 3x in pbs and resuspended to 2 x 108ml in an isosmotic sucrose solution 10.4. ten microlitre of the parasite suspension was added to 500 ml of different concentrations of sucrose in microwell plates and the number and developmental stage of viable promastigotes were scored under a haemocytometer after different times in culture at 26 degc.

data shown are the total number of viable promastigotes a or percent metacyclics b. the data are representative of three independent experimentsaccumulation of promastigotes and plug formation in the thoracic mid- gut just behind the stomodeal valve figure 8a.

time lapse imaging of promastigotes in the antibiotic-treated flies failed to capture any motil- ity in the plug region and the cells appeared enlarged and deformed consistent with dead or dying promastigotes movies s5-s6.

it is interesting that plant diet has been shown to be a potential cause of l. major mortality in the sand fly midgut schlein  jacobson 1994 with certain plant species found to produce a high proportion of deformed promastigotes in flies with mature infections consistent with an osmolytic effect of the sugar meals on promastigotes stationed in the anterior midgut.our findings confirm a recent study involving another leishmania species l. infantum and another vector l. longipalpis in which dysbiosis of the midgut also resulted in promastigote killing and failure to generate metacyclics kelly et al.

leishmania has a dimorphic life cycle consisting of extracellular promastigotes that multiply and develop within the digestive tract of their female sand fly vectors and intracellular amastigotes that multiply within the phagolysosomes of their host cell macrophages.

with respect to the insect promastigotes stages a family of surface and secreted phosphoglycan-containing molecules have been shown to be essential for the parasite to survive certain natural barriers to mid- gut colonisation including the digestive enzymes that are induced upon blood feeding and the excretion of the blood meal remnants that neces- sitates promastigote attachment to the gut wall to avoid being expelled sacks  kamhawi 2001. another potential barrier to parasitedevelopment is the natural gut microbiota which is acquired by adult sand flies from several sources including their respective animal and plant sources of blood and sugar or from recolonisation of the gut by the microbes ingested by the terrestrial dwelling larval stages dillon el kordy shehata  lane 1996 hillesland et al.

we attribute this phe- nomenon to the capacity of the gut bacterial symbionts to create the appropriate osmotic conditions required for the survival of infectivestage metacyclic promastigotes in the anterior midgut.

addition of penicil- lin and streptomycin ps to both the blood and sugar meals resulted in normal growth and persistence of promastigotes over the first 6 days followed by a drastic reduction in the intensity of infection compared to control flies at days 9-14 which was accounted for almost entirely by a reduction in the number of metacyclic forms.

our in vitro prop- agation of leishmania promastigotes is routinely carried out in the presence of ps so we did not believe that there was a direct effect of the antibiotics on the growth and differentiation of the parasite.

a meta-analysis of untreated and ps-treated l. major- infected sand flies revealed a highly significant positive correlation between the population size of the cultivable midgut bacteria and the number of metacyclic promastigotes in individual flies figure s2.

