mice received subcutaneous antibiotic treatment for 2 days and subgroups 8 per group were challenged with 10000 cfu of c. difficile spores before treatment or on days 3 6 and 11 after antibiotic treatment by gastric gavage.

compounds were assessed as possible biomarkers of colonization resistance if there was a significant difference in concentrations between the piperacillin-tazobactam-treated and control mice on day 3 after piperacillin-tazobactam treatment but not at baseline or day 11 this choice was based on the finding that colonization resistance was disrupted on day 3 after piperacillin-tazobactam treatment but not at baseline or on day 11 after treatment.

aztreonam did not affect colonization resistance whereas piperacillin-tazobactam disrupted colonization resistance 3 days after piperacillin- tazobactam treatment with complete recovery by 11 days after treatment.

we demonstrated previously that clindamycin or piperacillin- tazobactam treatment of mice resulted in the disruption of colonization resistanceaugust 2017 volume 61 issue 8 e00477-17antimicrobial agents and chemotherapy 1fig 1 effect of antibiotic treatment on in vivo colonization resistance to clostridium difficile.

to test this hypothesis we used a mouse model to determine if the timing of recovery of in vivo colonization resistance to c. difficile after antibiotic treatment correlated with changes in concentrations of selected metabolites of intes- tinal bacteria in urine.resultsrestoration of in vivo colonization resistance after antibiotic treatment.

the antibiotic dose was equal to the usual human doses administered over a 24-h period milligrams of antibiotic per gram of body weight.to assess in vivo colonization resistance subgroups of the antibiotic-treated mice were challenged with 104 cfu of c. difficile va17 spores by orogastric gavage either before or 3 6 or 11 days after the completion of antibiotic treatment 8 mice from each treatment group were challenged at each time point.

for the group of mice challenged with c. difficile on day 11 8 mice fresh urine specimens were collected in sterile eppendorf tubes before antibiotic treatment and on days 3 6 and 11 after antibiotic treatment.

to assess in vivo colonization resistance mice were challenged with clostridium difficile spores orally 3 6 and 11 days after the com- pletion of 2 days of treatment with piperacillin-tazobactam aztreonam or saline.

three of the 11 compounds exhibited a statistically significant and 10-fold increase the tryptophan metabolite n-acetyltryptophan or decrease the plant polyphenyl deriva- tives cinnamoylglycine and enterodiol in concentrations in urine 3 days after piperacillin-tazobactam treatment followed by recovery to baseline that coincided with the restoration of in vivo colonization resistance.

of 484 compounds analyzed 146 30 exhibited a significant increase or decrease in concentrations during antibiotic treatment fol- lowed by recovery to baseline that coincided with the restoration of in vivo colonization resistance.

shows the effects of antibiotic treatment on the concentrations of the 11 urinary compounds studied.

concentrations of 5 of the 11 45 compounds differed significantly between the piperacillin-tazobactam-treated and control or aztreonam-treated mice includingfig 2 effect of antibiotic treatment on the concentrations of the 11 urinary compounds.

n-acetyltryptophan cinnamoylglycine and enterodiol were identified as potential biomarkers of colonization resistance because they exhibited a 10-fold difference in concentrations between piperacillin- tazobactam- and saline-treated mice on day 3 after treatment with normalization by day 11 in conjunction with the recovery of colonization resistance.

three compounds including n-acetyltryptophan cin- namoylglycine and enterodiol were identified as potential biomarkers of colonization resistance because they exhibited a 10-fold difference in concentrations between piperacillin-tazobactam- and saline- or aztreonam-treated mice on day 3 after treat- ment with normalization by day 11 after treatment in conjunction with the recovery of colonization resistance.

the mean concentration of n-acetyltryptophan was 10-fold higher in urine of piperacillin-tazobactam-treated mice than in urine of saline controls or aztreonam-treated mice on day 3 after antibiotic treatment 7 of 8 piperacillin- tazobactam-treated mice had increased levels of n-acetyltryptophan in comparison to the pretreatment levels.

