5 1 p 5 0.62.following thresholds commonly employed for clinical treatment decisions bacterial species within each sample were categorized based on relative abundances as follows low abundance 1 common 1 and 10 and dominant 10. a total of 1278 bacterial species were detected and of these 59 752 species were never observed at a relative abundance above 1. turnover in bacterial communities was assessed by comparing theproportions of persistent bacteria across time points figure 3a.

one clinical group used topical antibiotic treatments informed by molecular diagnostics and observed a complete healing rate of 62.4 whereas culture-guided therapies which are unable to detect a large proportion of bacterial lineages resulted in only a 48.5 healing rate.13 furthermore molecular diagnostic information led to a 22.9 faster complete healing time compared to culture information13 consistent with literature reporting that the use of molecular surveys leads to positive detection of bacterial species undetected by culture-based reporting.1415 the observed benefits of incorporating sequencing-based diagnostics relate to an improved characterization of wound biofilm communities.

such findings indicate thatthe benefits of antibiotic therapy in wound care are associ- ated with promoting wound bacterial community instability.although antibiotic therapy greatly improves healing rates and outcomes infection can be recurrent and may relate to community compositional changes as antibiotics successfully remove targeted bacterial species.

because antibiotic treatment data was not available for 44 of patients and antibiotic treat- ment regimen varied greatly for remaining patients it was not possible to assess effects of treatment type on wound microbiomes.community turnoverto assess the stability of microbial communities over time bacterial persistence was quantified as the percentage of bacterial species observed at a given time point that were still present at the subsequent time point.

not detected at subsequent time points or were detected as wound microbiome community members in different relative abundance categories.resultsacross 167 subjects sampled over three time points the median number of bacterial species was 19 1st quartile 5 12 3rd quartile 5 32 and the mean days between visits was 149 s 5 145. survey of rarefaction curves indicated that sequencing effort sufficiently charac- terized wound microbiome communities as increasing rare- faction depths generally did not lead to identification of bacterial species not detected at lower sampling effort figure 1. community compositional similarities were assessed by weighted unifrac18 and principal coordinate analysis.

in comparison wounds surveyed at subsequent time points were most commonly dominated by bacterial species that were undetected at the previous time point.to better characterize the temporal persistence of low abundance bacterial species the relative abundances and classifications of all low abundance species were charac- terized at subsequent time points.

a potentially more effective approach would be to report common and dominant bacterial species in addi- tion to the observed low abundance bacterial species that are known to commonly infect wounds table s1.

evaluation of the bacterial diversity among and within individual venous leg ulcers using bacterial tag-encoded flx and titanium amplicon pyrosequencing and metagenomic approaches.

temporal dynamics of relative abundances and bacterial succession in chronic wound communitiescraig d. tipton bs1 marilyn e. mathew bs1 richard a. wolcott phd2 randall d. wolcott md3 tigga kingston phd1 caleb d. phillips phd14department of biological sciences texas tech university lubbock texasrtlgenomics lubbock texassouthwest regional wound care center lubbock texas andnatural science research laboratory texas tech university lubbock texasreprint requestsc.

tel 806 742-4113 fax 806 742-2963 email manuscript received march 16 2017 accepted in final form may 18 2017doi10.1111wrr.12555abstractpolymicrobial bacterial infection is an important factor contributing to wound chronicity.

moreover findings indicate that integrating ecological modeling to understand wound microbiome succession may lead to more informed therapy.chronic wounds impose a multifaceted burden on patients and treatments total billions of us dollars in direct costs annually.12 a recent study on diabetic foot ulcers involv- ing participants not typically treated with antibiotics as part of their wound care protocol reported amputations for 7 of 100 patients over the course of a 24 week study.3 fur- thermore the 3-year cumulative mortality rate of wound patients was reported at 28 and near 50 for amputees.2 the influence of biofilm infection is accepted as a major contributor to delayed healing and observed outcomes.4-8 this perspective has prompted many clinicians to adopt a biofilm-based wound care approach910 in which individual wound microbial composition is used to guide antibiotic treatment.while wounds vary in origin chronic infections are thought to often be a consequence of the polymicrobial nature of wound communities and routinely involve com- mensal bacteria acting as opportunistic pathogens.35-7 a recent study found that only 7 of 2963 wounds were monoclonal.6 such observations are important because bacterial functions within biofilms are known to display altered phenotypes and to compartmentalize functionsamong community members6811 thus conveying emergent phenotypes by community processes.14612left undisturbed complex ecological communities are generally stable and stability of wound microbiome com- munities has been shown to be associated with poor wound healing.5 topical antibiotic regimens disrupt community stability and can dramatically improve wound healing par- ticularly if treatments are informed by the comprehensive descriptions of microbial communities conferred by molec- ular diagnostics.

in addition many community mem- bers occur at low abundance in wounds and are typically excluded from clinical reporting.56 however the role of these bacterial species in wound healing and persistence is poorly understood and may be dynamic through treatment as community composition changes.

wound bacterial com- munity change was quantified and analyzed to determine whether successive wound communities are products of community abundances at previous time points.

differences in percent persis- tent bacteria across intervals for patients that did or did not heal after the third visit was assessed using analysis of variance.wound microbiome community compositional similari- ties were assessed using weighted unifrac18 which is a beta diversity metric that incorporates information about bacterial phylogenetic relationships and relative abundan- ces in the calculation of community similarities.

wound communi- ties were also categorized into community state types cst following previously described methods.20 to clar- ify any taxonomic hierarchical component to cst classifi- cations were made using bacterial occurrence data summarized at different taxonomic levels.

