typically pro- posed mechanisms include 1 reducing total microbial density in the gastrointestinal tract git 2 promot- ing a more favorable git microbial balance andor re- ducing sub-clinical infections 3 reducing the produc- tion of potentially toxic bacterial metabolites and 4 better absorption of nutrients through a thinner intesti- nal epithelium gaskins et al.

competes for available nutrients ne- cessitates maintenance of intestinal and immune tissue3104sub-inhibitory effects of antibiotics3105table 1. antimicrobial class us annual total domestic usage 2015 spectrum of activity and mechanism of action for antibiotics that have commonly been used as agps for monogastrics usa and eu.atotal14572755 93.6gabased on data from butaye et al.

coates et al.

numerous studies have reported modification of the git microbiota by agps gask- ins et al.

dumonceaux et al.

wise and siragusa  lu et al.

la-ongkhum et al.

indeed the therapeutic efficacy of antibiotics in vivo is considered to relate to the inhibition of bac- terial growth through antibiotic concentrations typi- cally measured in serum exceeding the mic shryock et al.

early studies established that exposing staphylococcus aureus to sub-inhibitory con- centrations sub-mics of nafcillin increased suscepti- bility to phagocytosis friedman and warren  while sub-mics of ampicillin reduced escherichia coli attachment to human uroepithelial cells in vitro sand- berg et al.

mic taylor et al.

subsequently hacker et al.

reported that sub-mics of aztreonam gentamicin clin- damycin and trimethoprim strongly suppressed the ex- pression of a virulence gene cluster of pathogenic e. coli while nanduri et al.

biofilm for- mation can also be considered a major virulence factor as it helps provide bacterial protection and can aid in- fection van mellaert et al.

with quorum sensing cell-to-cell communication playing a key role in the formation of biofilms dong et al.

a number of studies have shown that antimicrobials at sub-mics can inhibit biofilm formation cerca et al.

