the production of active pediocin pa-1 against listeria innocua dpc3572 was only achieved at low copy level lc3 increasing from 25 um to 50 um iptg concentration.taken together these results demonstrate the production of active bactofencin a and pediocin pa-1 directlyinto the extracellular medium by e. coli tunertm de3 with the low copy state being the most suitable condition for the expression of both bacteriocins.

animal science journal 74 45-51 doi2003.gibbs g. m. davidson b. e.  hillier a. j. novel expression system for large-scale production and purification of recombinant class iia bacteriocins and its application to piscicolin 126. applied and environmental microbiology 70 3292-3297 doi2004.moon g. s. pyun y. r.  kim w. j. expression and purification of a fusion-typed pediocin pa-1 in escherichia coli and recovery of biologically active pediocin pa-1.

remarkably both secreted bacteriocins contained disulfide bonds overcoming one of the major limitations of disulfide bond production in e. coli.this is to our knowledge the first description of the production of bactofencin a in e. coli and the functional analysis of the genes involved in their heterologous production.

received 6 march 2017accepted 19 april 2017 published xx xx xxxxopencontrolled functional expression of the bacteriocins pediocin pa-1 and bactofencin a in escherichia colibeatriz mesa-pereira12 paula m. o'connor12 mary c. rea12 paul d. cotter 12 colin hill23 r. paul ross123the bacteriocins bactofencin a class iid and pediocin pa-1 class iia are encoded by operons with a similarly clustered gene organization including a structural peptide an immunity protein an abc transporter and accessory bacteriocin transporter protein.

class ii bacteriocins are further subdivided into pediocin-like bacteriocins class iia two-peptide bacteriocins class iib circular bacteriocins class iic and those that cannot be assigned to any of the other bacteriocin subgroups class iid .

bactofencin a and pediocin pa-1 production were tested under different expression conditions plasmid copy number and iptg concentration in order to find the best condi- tion to induce bacteriocin production.

with pediocin pa-1 being the best-known of this class.generally the production of class ii bacteriocins requires several genes clustered into one or more oper- ons encoded either on plasmids or on the chromosome.

in addition we identify the minimum gene cluster required for the expression of the respective bacteriocins in e. coli and open up new perspectives for the biotechnological production and modification of these and other bacteriocins.resultscloning of bactofencin a bfn and pediocin pa-1 ped gene clusters in e. coli.

applied and environmental microbiology 72 4761-4766 doi2006.rodriguez j. m. martinez m. i. horn n.  dodd h. m. heterologous production of bacteriocins by lactic acid bacteria.international journal of food microbiology 80 101-116 doi2003.rodriguez j. m. martinez m. i.  kok j. pediocin pa-1 a wide-spectrum bacteriocin from lactic acid bacteria.

maldi tof ms analysis of pediocin pa-1 fractions from e. coli showed that in addition to the expected mass of 4625 da corresponding to the pediocin pa-1 synthesized by the natural producer p. acidilactici a 4641 da mass consistent with the oxidation of methionine was also detected fig.

molecular microbiology 17 515-522 doi1995.oppegard c. fimland g. anonsen j. h.  nissen-meyer j. the pediocin pa-1 accessory protein ensures correct disulfide bond formation in the antimicrobial peptide pediocin pa-1.

even though the accessory protein usually associated with optimal disulfide bond formation was not required for bacteriocin synthesis its presence did result in greater pediocin pa-1 production.

the results demonstratefigure 2. production of bactofencin a and pediocin pa-1 in e. coli.

by con- trast the pediocin pa-1 constructions showed the same production level in the whole operon vector and pedb mutant 160 buml and a 2-fold reduction in pedc and pedcd mutants fig.

although the amount of bactofencin a and pediocin pa-1 produced by e. coli was found to be 4 and 8-fold lower than the bacteriocin produced by an overnight culture of the natural producers it should be noted that this level of bacteriocin production in e. coli is reached in only 3 hours.

