diagnosis of cdci were confirmed when c. difficile was identified in the stool culture andor rapid immunoassay was positive for c. difficile toxins a and b. the c. difficile-positive group included c. difficile colonization andor infection.

these findings are similar to those of our study re- garding differences in fa between the c. difficile-positive 13.6 and c. difficile-negative groups 0 p0.03 table 2. we hypothesized that the presence of c. difficile in the intestinal microbiota might possibly reflect the reduced diversity of the intestinal microbiota which is associated with an increased risk of allergic sensitization.

original articlekorean j pediatr 2017605145-150 pissn 1738-1061eissn 2092-7258korean j pediatr 2017605145-150korean j pediatrclostridium difficile colonization andor infection during infancy and the risk of childhood allergic diseasessun hwa lee md1 yun na gong md2 eell ryoo md phd11department of pediatrics gachon university gil medical center 2graduate school of medicine gachon university incheon koreapurpose the gut microbiota can influence several diseases through immune modulation however the exact role of microbes such as clostridium difficile and the relationship between microbiota colonization and allergic diseases are not well known.

therefore additional research of the association between the actual composition of the gastrointestinal microbiota and the development of fa should focus on the presence of c. difficile.the association between c. difficile colonization andor infec- tion and ar has not been reported previously.

for the c. difficile stool culture the collected stool was placed onto culture media of chromid c. difficile agar biomerieux sa and an anaerobic culture was conducted for 48 to 72 hours.

to identify the underlying mechanism further investigation and a larger cohort study will be needed.key words allergy allergic diseases clostridium difficile gut microbiota food allergyintroductionthe intestinal microbiota is a key source of immune development and regulation early in life.

when the normal colonic microbiota is disrupted c. difficile can propagate and cause infection12.

the influence of c. difficile colonization andor infection cdci during infancy after the settlement of normal flora in the gastrointestinal tract on allergic diseases during late childhood remains unknown.to determine the relationship between cdci during infancyand the development of allergic diseases during childhood we hypothesized that cdci during infancy could alter gut microbiota and increase the risk of development of allergic diseases during early childhood.materials and methodsstudy design and populationinfants 1 to 12 months of age who were admitted to the pedi- atric gastrointestinal clinic at gachon university gil medical center between june 2009 and december 2012 were enrolled in this study.

in a recent study of the association between altered commensal microbiota and food allergen sensitization the intestinal microbiota was found to regulate innate lymphoid cell function and intestinal epithelial permeability in mice and sensitization to food is regulated by these innate mechanisms20.

there- fore the influence of the intestinal microbiota on the develop- ment of ad and asthma remains controversial and a large-scale prospective study may be necessary for further investigation.this is one of the few studies that have shown that cdci at ages 1 to 12 months after settlement of normal flora in the gastrointestinal tract could influence the development of allergic diseases during early childhood which might partially explain the effect of the gastrointestinal microbiota on allergic diseases.

difficile in the intestinal microbiota regardless of the strain is significantly associated with modification of the composition of the microbial ecosystem14.

clostridium difficile colonization in early infancy is accom- panied by changes in intestinal microbiota composition.

bloom and bust intestinal microbiota dynamics in response to hospital exposures and clostridium difficile colonization or infec- tion.

this study aimed to determine the relationship between c. difficile colonization andor infection cdci during infancy and allergic diseases during early childhood.

after dividing them into 2 groups according to the presence and absence of c. difficile the risk of allergic disease development during childhood was identified and compared.results sixty-five patients were included in this study 22 33.8 were diagnosed with cdci.

