The E. coli and Lactobacillus were counted immediately after removal from the incubator.Apparent total tract digestibility ATTD of nutrients in sowsTo determine the ATTD for DM nitrogen N and gross energy GE sows were fed diets containing chromic oxide 0.2 as an indigestible marker for 5 days followed by fecal grab sampling from five sows per treatment via rectal palpation before farrowing after farrowing and on weaning day.

The above hypothesis was strongly indicated where sows fed PUFA resulted in reduction of pathogen challenge of the neonatal environment.ATTD of nutrients in sowsAfter farrowing and weanling of sows no differences P  0.05 were observed in ATTD of nutrients among treatments Table 6.Fatty acids of animal origin are normally consid- ered to have a lower digestibility and hence lower energy value than fatty acids of vegetable origin owing to the higher content of saturated fatty acids in the former which have lower nutrient digestibil- ity than the unsaturated fatty acids Jobrgensen et al.

Animal Science Journal 2017 88 1744-1752doi10.1111asj.12819ORIGINA LARTICLE Effects of different n-6 to n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ratio on reproductive performance fecal microbiota and nutrient digestibility of gestation- lactating sows and suckling pigletsJia YINKwang Yong LEE Jong Keun KIM and In Ho KIMDepartment of Animal Resource  Science Dankook University Cheonan Choongnam South KoreaABSTRACTThis study was conducted to evaluate the effects of dietary ratios of n-6n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids PUFA on reproductive performance fecal microbiota and nutrient digestibility of gestation-lactating sows and suckling piglets.

Addi- tionally whether altering the ratio of n-6n-3 PUFA that can improve sows' nutrient digestibility is unknown.Thus the aim of the trial was to investigate the effect of different ratios of dietary n-6n-3 PUFA on the reproductive performance fecal microbiota and nutrient digestibility in gestation-lactating sows and suckling piglets.MATERIALS AND METHODSThe experimental protocol used in this study was approved by the Animal Care and Use Committee of Dankook University which is comparable to those laid down by the Canadian Council on Animal Care.Source of n-6n-3 PUFAThe omega-3 fatty acid used in this study was pro- vided by a commercial company Morningbio Co. Ltd. Cheonan Korea.

After farrowing to weanling sow BW loss in the 101 group decreased P  0.05 com- pared with 201 and 151 groups.It is well known that the weight loss of lactating sows due to mobilization of fatty acids and protein can vary considerably between sows Mullan  Williams 1990.

Peripartal feeding strategy with different n-6n-3 ratios in sows effects on sows' performance inflammatory and periparturient metabolic parameters.

The animal care and use protocol was approved by the Animal Care and Use Committee of Dankook University.Diets and feedingFrom day 108 of gestation until farrowing sows were fed 2.5 kgday of their respective experimental gestation diets.

The back fat thickness of the sows 6 cm off the midline at the 10th rib was measured using a real-time ultrasound instrument Piglot 105 SFK Technology Herlev Denmark.

The n-6 and n-3 fatty acids are stored in phospholipids of cell and organelle membranes and in glycerides andAnimal Science Journal 2017 88 1744-1752c 2017 Japanese Society of Animal Science1748 J. YIN et al.Table 3 Effect of different ratios of PUFA supplementation on reproductive performance in gestation-lactating sowsdemonstrated that fatty acids were added in the diet and had a positive effect on sows.

The action of PUFA in adult animals is not well studied and a possible explanation for the reduction of the sow BW loss during the suckling period could be the increased feed intake.As reported by Thacker 2013 sows' back fat could reflect nutrient digestibility and potential reproductive efficiency.

