these siderophores either facilitate iron uptake from the host 37 or protect the pathogen from plant-derived toxic hydroxyl radicals produced at the site of infection 23. in addition to the role of iron in the interaction between plants and microbes it recently became evident that the signaling pathways regulating plant iron uptake interact directly with the plant immune signaling network 104. for instance the defense-related hormones salicylic acid jasmonic acid and ethy- lene affect important steps in the iron-uptake response in plant roots 4. moreover components of the iron-uptake signaling pathway in host roots appear to be required for the onset of induced systemic resistance isr which is triggered by selected plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria and fungi 153 154. recent advances in our understanding of iron homeostasis mechanisms in both plants and microbes and the emerging link between iron and both plant immunity and pathogen virulence prompted us to thoroughly review these respective fields and provide an outlook for future research.plant iron homeostasisiron acquisition strategies in plants in most soils iron is poorly available.

these changes include increased root branching and root hair formation which aidstrategy i adaptive root response ofnon-grass plant species to iron deficiency characterized by rhizosphere acidification reductionof fe3 to fe2 andincreased iron transporter activitystrategy ii adaptive root response of grass plant species characterized by iron uptake viairon-chelatingphytosiderophoresfro2 a ferric chelate reductase that transfers electrons across theplasma membrane to reduce ferric iron chelates to formsoluble ferrous ironirt1 iron transporter protein mediating transport of ferrous iron into root epidermal cells under iron-deficient conditionsnicotianamine na iron-chelating siderophore that functions in ironuptake andortransport in both strategy i and strategy ii plantsfit transcription factor with central role in the regulation ofiron uptake in plant rootsmyb72 root-specific r2r3-type myb transcription factor that functions duringthe onset of isr by beneficial microbes associated withiron-deficiency responsein the plant's capacity to take up iron 59 119. interestingly as yet unidentified systemic signals from the shoot can also upregulate iron-uptake responses in the roots e.g.

stimulate both plant iron uptake and plant disease resistance 51 100. however the molecular mechanism behind the association between iron and immunity remained obscure in these studies.myb72 links induced systemic resistance and the iron-deficiency responsethe molecular basis of triggering signaling and expression of isr has been extensively studied in the interaction between arabidopsis and the plant growth-promoting rhizobacterium pseudomonas simiae wcs417 formerly known as pseudomonas fluorescens wcs417 9 103 104 135. using this model system the plant hormones jasmonic acid and ethylene were found to be required for the enhanced resistance phenotype of isr-expressing plants.

kema483fatty acid- and lipid-mediated signaling in plant defensegah-hyun lim richa singhal aardra kachroo and pradeep kachroo505adapted biotroph manipulation of plant cell ploidymary c. wildermuth michael a. steinwand amanda g. mcraejohan jaenisch and divya chandran537interplay between innate immunity and the plant microbiotaste'phane hacquard stijn spaepen ruben garrido-oter and paul schulze-lefert565vicontentssurveillance to inform control of emerging plant diseasesan epidemiological perspectiveand christopher a. gilligan591errataan online log of corrections to annual review of phytopathology articles may be found at contentsvii

abbreviations pm plasma membrane vocs volatile organic compounds.exudatescompounds secreted into the rhizosphere by plant roots that are thought to affect plant nutrient uptake and rhizospheremicrobiome compositionenhanced lateral root formation and elongation of root hairs which resemble those observed in response to iron starvation and are known to increase the plant's capacity to take up iron 138 155. interestingly volatiles produced by the beneficial microbes bacillus subtilis gb03 and p. simiae wcs417 were shown to both induce isr and activate the expression of fit irt1 and fro2 in arabidopsis roots even when plants were grown under conditions of sufficient iron 113 154 156.effect of iron-mobilizing phenolics on microbial communityroot exudates have a major impact on the composition of the microbial community in the rhizo- sphere.

the plant iron nutritional status can strongly influence both the root exudation pattern and the rhizosphere microbial community structure 12 39 118. for example in barley plants grown in an iron-deficient soil manipulation of the plant iron nutrition status by a foliar spraysignificantly influenced the composition of the microbial community structure in the rhizosphere 148. this shift in community structure can be correlated with a shift in microbial community function as observed in the rhizosphere microbial community of iron-stressed red clover plants which is enriched in siderophore-producing microbes 60. this observation is in line with the current idea that modification of exudation patterns by plants in response to various environmen- tal stimuli results in the enrichment of specific microbial species in the rhizosphere microbial community that in turn can perform beneficial functions for the host plant 11 74 101 112. for example in arabidopsis infection of the leaves with the bacterial pathogen p. syringae results in the production of specific root exudates that attract the isr-inducing rhizobacterium b. subtilis fb17 69. invasion of the sugar beet rhizosphere by the necrotrophic pathogen rhizoctonia solani caused a shift in the microbiota that was related to the production of oxalic acid by the pathogen 14. iron availability may play a role in this shift in the microbiota as oxalic acid production by fungi increases iron availability 32.the phenylpropanoid-derived metabolites secreted in response to iron starvation are ma-jor components of root exudates 108 118. several of them such as the coumarin phytoalexin scopoletin have antimicrobial activity and act as chemical defense components against pathogen infection 29 35 61 125 129 142. the secretion of these antimicrobial phenolics in response to stimulation by specific rhizosphere microbiota may be part of the selection process that is involved in rhizosphere microbial community assembly.

does the resulting secretion of iron-mobilizing phenolic compounds affect assembly of the microbial community to their advantage does altered root exudation activate microbial functions that are mutually beneficial and what are the nature and role of microbial volatiles in this process recent advances in next-generation sequencing technology boosted the field of host-microbe research and provided new insights into the under- lying principles of how plant genotype microbial community composition and soil characteristics such as nutrient availability affect the delicate ecological balance between mutualists and pathogens in the rhizosphere and impact fitness parameters of the host plant 12 50 72 101. these new developments will increase our knowledge of how fierce competition for scarce nutrients such as iron has led to the evolution of sophisticated interactions between plant hosts and their associ- ated microbes.

non-grass plants such as the model plant arabidopsis thaliana hereafter arabidopsis activate a coordinated set of responses in root cells when exposed to iron- limiting conditions figure 1. during this strategy i response solubility of fe3 in the soil is increased by the activity of the h-atpase aha2 which secretes protons into the rhizosphere that lower the ph 114. solubilized fe3 is reduced to fe2 by the plasma membrane protein ferric reduction oxidase 2 fro2 after which it is transported from the soil environment to the root epidermis by the high-affinity iron-regulated transporter1 irt1 34 107.grass plants such as maize and wheat make use of an iron chelation-based strategy to mobilize and acquire iron under iron-limiting conditions figure 1. in these so-called strategy ii plants iron deficiency triggers the conversion of methionine into nicotianamine na which is sub- sequently converted into phytosiderophores by nicotianamine aminotransferase naat and deoxymugineic acid synthase dmas 8 95. phytosiderophores are released into the rhizosphere by transporter of mugineic acid1 tom1 94. upon binding iron in the rhizosphere the phytosiderophores are taken up by the plant by specific trans- porters such as yellow stripe1 ys1 or ys1-like ysl 20 55 65.both strategy i and ii are activated in roots upon sensing low iron availability.

shown are two-week-old arabidopsis seedlings grown in liquid hoagland medium with  fe or without  fe iron as described in reference 153. pictures were taken under uv light365 nm to visualize fluorescent phenolic compounds.pleiotropic drug resistance9 pdr9 figure 1 39 108 117 118. upon releasein the rhizosphere coumarins can chelate and mobilize fe3 and make it available for reduction and uptake by the roots 40 117.myb72 also activates the expression of b-glucosidase 42 bglu42 44 153. mutant bglu42 plants are still able to produce fluorescent phenolic compounds upon iron starvation but their secretion into the rhizosphere is severely hampered figure 2. this suggests that the glucose hydrolase activity of bglu42 is involved in processing the fluorescent phenolic compounds to enable their secretion into the rhizosphere 153. this function is consistent with the general role of b-glucosidases in chemical destabilization and release of stress-induced secondary metabolites 92.coumarinsa subclass of phenolic compounds synthesized by plants under stress situations that can facilitate iron uptakeeffects of plant hormones on iron-uptake responsesin plants the iron-deficiency response is regulated at both the transcriptional and the post- translational levels 7 17 53 126. the plant hormones auxin ethylene nitric oxide cytokinin and gibberellic acid emerged as important players in the regulation of this process 53 124 147. in arabidopsis ethylene and gibberellic acid increase fro2 and irt1 expression in the root epidermis leading to increased iron uptake 44 109 147. furthermore ethylene and auxin stimulate the ac- cumulation of nitric oxide production in iron-deficient roots.

both ethylene and the accumulated nitric oxide result in stabilization of fit and enhanced iron uptake 89 110. in addition auxin stimulates formation and elongation of lateral roots enabling the plant to take up more iron 45. cytokinin in contrast decreases root growth and suppresses genes involved in the iron-deficiency response 122.the major defense hormones salicylic acid and jasmonic acid also influence plant iron acquisi- tion.

in arabidopsis salicylic acid affects auxin and ethylene signaling thereby positively affecting the expression of the iron-uptake genes fro2 and irt1 124. in contrast to salicylic acid jasmonic acid negatively affects iron acquisition by downregulating fro2 and irt1 in a fit-independent manner 87. salicylic acid jasmonic acid ethylene and auxin play key roles in the regulation of the plant immune signaling network 102. hence the fact that these hormones also affect iron- uptake responses in plant roots pinpoints a potentially important link between iron availability and immunity.microbe iron homeostasislike plants bacteria and fungi need iron for their development and growth whereas high iron concentrations can be toxic.

highly specific siderophores are recognized only by the receptors of the producing organism whereas heterologous siderophores are recognized and taken up by dif- ferent microorganisms 81. a rhizosphere-competent microbe ideally produces large amounts of specific siderophores with a high affinity for iron in addition to having multiple receptors for heterologous siderophores 9. plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria that produce such spe- cific high-affinity siderophores can effectively deprive soil-borne pathogens of iron and thereby suppress plant disease 77. successful soil-borne pathogens clearly evolved ways to cope with such antagonistic microbes in the rhizosphere.

hapx-regulated iron-uptake responses are im- plicated in successful iron competition with siderophore-producing beneficial p. putida bacteria in the rhizosphere 82. apart from competition with antagonistic microorganisms in the soil plant pathogens also evolved ways to cope with iron-related host plant defense mechanisms.

tabaci 6605 controls the production of tabtoxin a toxin that induces chlorosis in the leaves of its host 130. thus depending on the host- pathogen interaction the iron status of the host plant can positively or negatively affect pathogen virulence and the development of local defense responses with major consequences for disease development.plant defense via changes in host iron homeostasisin specific plant-pathogen interactions pathogen-induced changes in plant iron homeostasis mechanisms affect host immunity.

alternatively fer1 plays a role in the protection of cells against the high amounts of iron that are released from the cell walls upon pathogen infection 5. in the same pathosystem the pathogen's siderophore chrysobactin stimulates the production of the defense hormone salicylic acid in the host resulting in induc- tion of the pathogenesis-related defense marker gene pr-1 callose deposition along the leaf veins and accumulation of h2o2 3 24 25. these iron-related defense responses are likely caused by pathogen-inflicted changes in iron distribution at the site of pathogen infection 5 121. interestingly application of this leaf pathogen or its siderophores to shoots also induced the expression of fro2 and irt1 in the roots suggesting that microbe-induced changes in iron homeostasis mechanisms can be expressed systemically throughout the plant 3 25 121. redis- tribution of iron upon pathogen attack is also observed in other plant species.

