serum thiobarbituric acid reactive substance and total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were lower pb.05 with dietary spi vs. mpi and ms. histological hepatic steatosis was lower pb.05 in spi compared with mpi or ms. lipidomic analyses revealed reductions pb.05 in hepatic diacylglycerols but not triacylglycerols in spi compared with mpi which was associated with lower hepatic de novo lipogenesis acc fas and scd-1 protein content and hepatic 161 n-7 and 181 n-7 pufa concentrations pb.05 compared with mpi and ms however mpi displayed elevated hepatic mitochondrial function compared with spi and ms. fecal bacterial 16s rrna analysis revealed spi-intake elicited increases pb.05 in lactobacillus and decreases pb.05 in blautia and lachnospiraceae suggesting decreases in fecal secondary bile acids in spi rats.

hepatic glutathione peroxidase 1 mrna was significantly elevated in the ms group compared with mpi and spi pb.05 a. in addition hepatic monocyte chemoattrac- tant protein-1 mrna expression was significantly attenuated in spi compared with mpi rats pb.05 b. liver gsh exhibited a trend p.07 with spi-fed rats having elevated gsh compared with mpi c. furthermore both ms and spi had lower gssg and a higher gshgssg ratio compared with mpi rats pb.05 d and e.microbiota analysis and pearson's correlationstaxonomic classification of raw sequences by ribosomal database project classifier was assigned to 7 phyla 28 families and 38 genera.

spi attenuated pb.05 fat mass and percent fat by 10 compared with ms but not compared with mpi.

both ms and spi rats had greater p.05 liver weight compared with mpi-fed rats while spi-fed rats had greater p.05 liver glycogen concentrations compared with mpi-fed rats.

weekly food intake was greater p.05 in ms-fed rats compared with mpi-fed rats.serum triglycerides ffa and glucose did not differ among groups however serum insulin and hba1c were significantly elevated in spi compared with mpi pb.01.

means with different letters denote significant differences pb.05.addition mpi-fed oletf rats also had elevated hepatic b-had activity in isolated mitochondria and whole liver lysate b and c and hepatic citrate synthase activity in isolated mitochondria compared with ms and spi groups pb.05 d. citrate synthase activity in whole liver lysate exhibited a trend to be greater in mpi fed oletf rats compared with ms- and spi-fed rats p.10 e. complete to co2 incomplete asm and total acid soluble metabolitesco2 palmitate oxidation in isolated mitochondria and whole liver lysate complete oxidation shown in f and g incomplete and total data not shown was not different among groups.

furthermore we found no differences in hepatic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptorgamma coactivator 1-alpha or sirtuin 1 mrna expression or protein content among groups data not shown.markers of hepatic de novo lipogenesis fatty acid uptake and fatty acid exportspi feeding dramatically reduced pb.01 hepatic acc phospho- acc fas and scd-1 protein content compared with ms and mpi rats a-d. in addition the marker of fatty acid transport cd36 did not differ among feeding groups e but spi increased hepatic apo b100 protein content a marker of hepatic triglyceride export by40 compared with mpi and ms rats pb.05 f.fig.

prevotel- laceae were lower pb.05 in feces of mpi- and ms-fed rats compared with spi-fed rats while fecal s24-7 relative abundance was lower pb.05 in mpi-fed rats compared with both ms and spi rats.

within firmicutes fecal relative abundances of unassigned clostridia were decreased pb.05 in rats fed milk protein compared with spi-fed rats while the relative abundance of blautia was increased pb.05 in mpi- fed rats compared with ms and spi diets.

mpi-fed rats had lower pb.05 relative abundance of fecal oscillospira c compared with ms- and spi-fed rats while mpi- and ms-fed rats had lower pb.05 fecal relative abundance of lactobacillus compared with spi- fed rats d. pearson's correlations revealed a significant negative correlation between serum total cholesterol concentrations and lactobacillus e r-0.56 pb.01.

hepatic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coa hmgcoa synthase d pb.05 mrna expression was increased in rats fed the spi diets compared with mpi-fed rats and hmgcoa reductase e tended p.06 to be increased in spi-fed rats compared with ms- and mpi-fed rats.

available online at sciencedirectsoy compared with milk protein in a western diet changes fecal microbiota and decreases hepatic steatosis in obese oletf ratsmatthew r. panasevichab colin m. schusterbc kathryn e. phillipsb grace m. meersbc sree v. chintapallid umesh d. wankhaded kartik shankard dustie n. butteigere elaine s. krule john p. thyfaultf gscott rectorab cadepartment of nutrition and exercise physiology university of missouri columbia mo usabharry s truman memorial va hospital columbia mo usacdepartment of medicine-gastroenterology and hepatology columbia mo usadarkansas children's nutrition center university of arkansas for medical sciences little rock ar usaedupont nutrition  health st. louis mo usafdepartment of molecular  integrative physiology university of kansas medical center kansas city ks usagkansas city va medical center kansas city mo usareceived 21 september 2016 received in revised form 10 april 2017 accepted 16 may 2017abstractsoy protein is effective at preventing hepatic steatosis however the mechanisms are poorly understood.

spi and ms exhibited greater pb.05 hepatic fxr fgfr4 hnf4a hmgcoa reductase and synthase mrna expression compared with mpi.

overall dietary spi compared with mpi decreased hepatic steatosis and diacylglycerols changed microbiota populations and altered bile acid signaling and cholesterol homeostasis in a rodent model of obesity.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.keywords soy protein nafld microbiota bile acids lipid metabolism cholesterolintroduction funding this work was partially supported by national institutes of health nih grant dk-088940 j. p. thyfault and usda agricultural research service project 6026-51000-007-00d-05 k. shankar and veteran affairs va grant va-cda2 ik2bx001299 r. s. rector and merit review i01 rx000123 j. p.thyfault and merit grant i01bx003271-01 r. scott rector.

total fat mass and percent body fat were lower p.05 in spi- fed rats compared with ms-fed rats but not mpi-fed rats.

