Marginal statistical significance was observed between older KO MZ and younger SI NA ME GO LO samples Wilcoxon P  0.0467 with a higher share ofendogenous human DNA in older samples average  11.7 and7.8 median  3.2 and 0.75 for older and younger samples respectively.AnalysesMicrobiomes of human archaeological remainsTo characterize the microbiomes of analyzed archaeological samples we used MetaPhlAn2.

S6.In order to confirm that the major source of microbes observed in human archeological samples was the environ- ment we compared their microbiomes with the microbiomes of6Philips et al.Figure 4 Bacterial and archaeal types environmental light green oral blue other yellow and pathogenic red detected in analyzed archaeological samples.

C Percentage of reads mapped to the human genome y-axis per archaeological site x-axis.Table 1 Characteristics of the samples extracted from ancient human remainsshallow next-generation sequencing NGS with the usage of an Illumina single-end standard protocol including blunt-end DNA repair and 75 bp sequencing run.

34 typ- ically found in the human digestive system and in the oral cav- ity was the most abundant taxon in the other human-related group as only M. smithii human gut flora component were iden- tified in our samples Supplementary Table S2.

To determine if k-mers of exoge- nous reads might segregate samples according to their age stor- age or archeological site we followed the approach described in Dubinkina et al.

Accordingly the analyzed DNA could come from i microorganisms that formed the human microbiome and ex- isted in the human organism before death or ii environmen- tal species that contaminated human remains or participated in the body's decomposition process.In this study we analyzed 161 datasets total sequencing  63 Bbp collected from 7 different archaeological sites.

conceived the overall idea of the study participated in the study design analyzed and discussed the data coordinated studies and was responsible for the final version of the manuscript all authors read and approved the final manuscript.12Philips et al.ReferencesFu Q Posth C Hajdinjak M et al.

As shown in Table  the samples differed by age Roman Age group KO and MZ or Me- dieval group GO SI NA ME and LO and by storage conditions specimens that were in museum deposits for at least 20 years long deposit KO MZ SI NA and GO relatively freshly discov- ered specimens stored in museum deposit 5 years short de- posit LO or samples taken directly from an archaeological site arch.

Two samples with 1000 reads mapped to the marker sequences were removed from fur- ther analyses as the marker coverage is crucial for proper mi- croorganism detection .For the remaining 151 samples our analyses Fig.

As a re- sult 11 samples with fewer than 1000 reads mapping exclusively to bacterialarchaeal MetaPhlaAn2 marker sequences were re- moved as they did not ensure a reliable microbiome profiling.Altogether 25 bacterial and 4 archaeal classes were identi- fied in exogenous DNA of the analyzed samples and among them 6 bacterial classes accounted for 1 of identified bac- teriaarchaea.

