infiltration of ms brain lesions by inflammatory cells is by no means a novel observation it was described by babinski 130 years ago as a morphological hallmark of the ms plaque  but it has been difficult to explain in the context of the immunological privilege of the brain and the role of the microbiota is now providing new insights into this question.this review traces the mechanisms preceding the onset of brain autoimmune disease specifi- cally of ms. it first focuses on triggering events involving the activation of naturally occurring autoimmune t cells by the intestinal microbiota.

it finally examines possible involvement of microbiota in clinical ms and other brain disorders such as pd stroke and psychiatric conditions.gut microbiota and activation of encephalitogenic t cellsthe connection between intestinal microbiota and brain autoimmunity was first made by studies of eae which is the main classic animal model of human ms. to be precise the term eae refers to a broad variety of experimental brain inflammation models which are distinguished by the genetics of the experimental animal the target autoantigen and the method of induction  .

addition- ally we examine the involvement of the microbiota in clinical ms as well as other brain disorders such as parkinson's disease pd stroke and psychiatric disorders.immune privilege versus autoimmunity in the central nervous system autoimmune diseases in the brain are likely driven by t cells that recognize cerebral auto- antigens.

while he confirmed the survival of foreign skin transplants in the brain he noted that survival of the brain grafts could be abruptly terminated by sensitizing the recipient by transplanting donor skin to a peripheral site .

these insights were made using experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis eae as the prime model of brain autoimmunity and have currently been extended to human ms and possibly also to degenerative brain disease.

in theiler's virus encephalomyelitis of sjlj mice an antiviral immune response activates brain autoimmune t cells as bystanders and where disease progression involves an extension of a t cell response to additional brain epitopes a process termed determinant spreading .actively and passively induced eae models have been crucial to shaping our understanding of the cellular organization of self-tolerance and autoimmunity the immune status of the cns and they have enabled the development of some of the most potent therapies for ms .

4 passage through vascular blood-brain barrier reactivation by local antigen-presenting cells processing and presenting autoanti- genic brain material to guide invading t cells into brain parenchyma.

a powerful strategy will rely on transfer of human patient-derived bacterial samples to suitable gf experimental animals as has been successfully performed in the case of microbe-related metabolic diseases  and behavioral aberrations .implications for other human neurological diseases the discovery of unexpectedly diverse and tight connections between intestinal microbiota and brain functions has led investigators of diverse interests to search for the role of the gut flora in brain dysfunction ranging from degenerative to behavioral disorders.

reviewbrain autoimmunity and intestinal microbiota 100 trillion game changershartmut wekerle1t cells play a critical role in autoimmune diseases in the brain particularly in multiple sclerosis ms. since t cells are normally prevented from crossing the blood-brain barrier bbb autoimmunity requires prior activation of naturally occurring autoreactive t cells in peripheral tissue.

here we review the role of gut-associated lymphoid tissues galt as a major site for the phenotypic changes that allow the migration of autoreactive t cells to the brain.

in most individuals such brain autoreactive t cell clones reside in the immune system as innocuous 'sleepers' but under pathological conditions they can be activated to unfold their pathogenic potential.

the concept of this exceptional status known as the immunological privilege of the brain originates from trans- plantation experiments.

in 1921 shirai reported that rat sarcoma cells were promptly rejected when grafted to peripheral organs of mice but persisted and grew well when grafted in the brain .

thus does this mean that the brain the most complex organ lacks protection against foreign potentially dangerous intruders decades later medawar found a way out of the apparent paradox.

7 483c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.the same rules apply to brain autoimmune t cells.

