finally it is now more and more accepted that dietary transition and environmental changes at weaning are linked to modifications in piglet intestinal microbiota which could be involved in the etiology of post- weaning diarrhea and enteric infections .gut microbiota dysbiosis and postweaning enteric infections the gut microbiota of mammals has numerous roles benefiting the host - such as digestion and fermentation of carbohydrates production of vitamins maintenance of normal functions of the intestinal villi regulation of the immune responses and protection from pathogenic bacteria .

reviewgut microbiota dysbiosis in postweaning piglets understanding the keys to healthraphaele gresse2 mickael alain fleury3 4 and stephanie blanquet-diot1weaning is a critical event in the pig's life cycle frequently associated with severe enteric infections and overuse of antibiotics this raises serious eco- nomic and public health concerns.

multiple stressors encountered at piglet weaning induce transient anorexia intestinal inflammation and unbalanced gut microbiota .

among the physiological and gi factors impacted by the weaning transition gut microbiota disruption is likely to be recognized as one of the keys leading to postweaning diarrhea.

the pig gut microbiota is a very complex ecosystem showing dynamic composition and diversity which shifts over time and along the entire gi tract .

during the suckling period the breed and nursing mother lead to further differentiation of the fecal microbiota of piglets .

therefore the suckling period offers a peculiar window of gut microbiota modifications.at weaning piglets are suddenly fed with a diet containing cereals and a relatively high concentration of crude proteins although modern diets tend to pay more attention to amino acid balance.

in-feed antibiotics can also introduce differences in piglet gut microbiota at weaning due to their wide spectrum activity and thus their potential ability to kill or prevent the growth of both pathogenic and beneficial microbes.

the diversity of the microbiota may be even more decreased .

the genetic background of the host which has a key role in driving the settlement of the gut microbiota also represents a predisposing factor to infections in piglets.

etec-susceptible pigs based on mucin 4 gene polymorphism also display a reduced gut bacterial diversity compared to nonsusceptible pigs .hence in piglets weaning transition has been associated with a disrupted state of the microbiota that can be referred to as 'dysbiosis' .

besides a loss of gut microbiota diversity weaning transition is also associated with an increase in permeability which could favor the crossing of toxins and pathogens through the epithelium .

additionally the concentration of oxygen in the inflamed intestine which is enhanced by the higher blood flow may favor the bloom of facultative anaerobes such as members of the enterobacteriaceaelumenmucus layerepitheliumfigure 1. impact of weaning transition on piglet gut microbiota and expansion of infectious agents.

these modifications result in disruption of gut microbiota composition and intestinal inflammation that can lead to the expansion of enteric pathogens and postweaning diarrhea.

as antibiotics can promote intestinal inflammation  and are associated with decreased microbiota diversity antimicrobial compounds may fuel and exac- erbate the vicious circle process during weaning transition.trends in microbiology october 2017 vol.

