the proteomic approach was applied to compare the differential expression of proteins in the ileum mucosa.results no statistical difference was found among the three lactobacillus-treated groups in animal growth performance compared with the antibiotics-treated group p  0.05. supplementation of lactobacilli in diets significantly increased the relative 16s rrna gene copies of lactobacillus genus on both d 14 and d 28 p  0.05. and the bacterial community profiles based on dgge from the lactobacilli-treated groups were distinctly different from the antibiotics-treated group p  0.05. the ileum mucosa of piglets responded to all lactobacillus supplementation by producing more newly expressed proteins and the identified proteins were all associated with the functions beneficial for stabilization of cell structure.

the concentration of viable cells from each strain was determined by agar-plate assay and adjusted to 0.5 x 109 colony forming unit per gram cfug by the carrier before animal trial.animals diets experimental design and samplingthree hundred and sixty castrated male crossbred landrace x large white piglets 35-40 days old were randomly assigned to one of four treatments which in- cluded an antibiotics control group a and three ex- perimental groups supplemented with l. salivarius g1-1 group b l. reuteri g8-5 group c and l. reuteri g22-2 group d respectively.

the objective of the present study was to study the in vivo effects of the three lactobacilli on growth performance and to compare the differential effects of the strains on the faecal microbiota and ileum mucosa proteomics of piglets.methods three hundred and sixty piglets were assigned to one of four treatments which included an antibiotics- treated control and three experimental groups supplemented with the three lactobacilli l. salivarius g1-1 l. reuteri g8-5 and l. reuteri g22-2 respectively.

2 pcr-dgge dna profiles of the 16s rrna of microbiota in faces of weaned pigs at d 14 a and d 28 b during a 4-week feeding trialtable 3 effect of three lactobacillus strains on the similarities among digitalized dgge profiles of pcr-amplified 16s rrna from fecal dna after bio-rad quantity one software comparisonvalues are means - s.d n 3. a b c mean in a same column with different superscripts differ significantly p  0.05lactobacilli-treated group and the down-regulation of actin cytoplasmic 1 actb ud2 only detectable in antibiotics group.discussionthe supplementation of lactobacilli in animal diets af- fects gastrointestinal tract health and growth perform- ance of piglets  however different lactobacillus strains used as probiotics may achieve the beneficial ef- fects on hosts through different mechanisms the present study was conducted to compare the differ- ent efficacies among three lactobacilli with strain- specific activities in growth performance faecal micro- biota and ileum mucosa proteomics of piglets.no significant differences in growth performance among lactobacillus-treated groups were observedcompared with the antibiotics-treated group.

besides some other up-regulated and down-regulated proteins in different lactobacillus groups showed the expression of proteins were partly strain-related.this comparative study helps to explore the mutual mechanisms for lactobacillus as probiotics on altering intestinal abundance of microbiota and expression of mucosa proteins in piglets and provides information for strain-specific screening in application.abbreviations2-de 2-dimensional electrophoresis actb actin cytoplasmic 1 adfi average daily feed intake adg average daily weight gainarhgdib rho gdp-dissociation inhibitor 2 cfu colony forming unit dgge denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dna deoxyribose nucleic acid fg feed conversion ratio git gastrointestinal tract ief isoelectric focusing ipg immobilized ph gradient krt19 keratin type i cytoskeletal 19 lab lactic acid bacteria maldi-tof ms matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time of flight mass spectrometry npm1 nucleophosminpcr polymerase chain reaction pik3cg phosphatidylinositol 45- bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit gamma isoform pmf peptide mass fingerprinting pmm peptide-mass mapping rrna ribosomal ribonucleic acid rt-pcr reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction sds-page sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis tpm1 tropomyosin alpha-1 chain tpm2 tropomyosin beta chainupgma unweighted pair group method with arithmetic average vim vimentinacknowledgementswe would like to thank jingjing yang huang ren and xiaoping fu for their lab analysis.fundingthis work was financially supported by the national natural science foundation of china no.

the similarities among four treatments on d 14 and d 28 were listed in table on d 14 the dendrogram based on the banding patterns showed low similarities and the bacterial community profiles form the lactobacilli were distinctly different from the antibiotics group p  0.05. meanwhile the similarities in l. reuteri g8-5 group were significantly lower than those in l. salivarius g1-1 group p  0.05. on d 28 the percentage of similarity in all lactobacillus groups increased but was still significantly lower than that of antibiotics group.

however among the three lactobacilli the supplementation of l. reuteri g8-5 was the least effective in enhancing the growth performance of piglets which was in line with the previous study in the rat experiment the rea- son is probably associated with the strain's lower anti- microbial activity compared with the other two strains which was reported in the previous study .increased lactobacilli in faeces from lactobacilli-treated piglets on both d 14 and d 28 in this study verified the ability of the three lactobacilli to maintain the balance of microbiota which was one of the possible mechanisms of lactobacilli as probiotics in vivo meanwhile the modulation of intestinal microbiota by lactobacilli might be strain-insensitive since all the three lactobacilli used in the study showed the same ability as intestinal flora improvers.

besides some other up-regulated and down-regulated proteins in different lactobacillus-treated groups showed the expression of proteins were partly strain-related.conclusions all the three lactobacilli in this study show comparable effects to antibiotics on piglets growth performance.

4 6 and 8 new proteins were expressed only in the antibiotics group compared with the three lactobacillus groups respect- ively.

nevertheless 32 40 and 27 new proteins only existed in the three lactobacillus groups compared with the antibiotics group respectively fig.

the proteins expressed in l. reuteri g8-5 group included the up-regulation of rho gdp-dissociation inhibitor 2 arhgdib spot uc1 only detectable in lactobacilli group and the down-regulation of nucleophosmin npm1 spot uc2.

the objective of the present study was to study the in vivo effects of the three lactobacilli on growth performance and to com- pare the differential effects of the strains on the faecal microbiota and ileum mucosa proteomics of piglets.methodslactobacillus strains and freeze-dried powder preparation three strains l. salivarius g1-1 l. reuteri g8-5 and l. reuteri g22-2 were isolated for probiotics based on the strain-specific functional properties in vitro all strains were incubated in deman rogosa sharp broth under anaerobic conditions at 37 degc for about 24 h. the microbial cells were collected by centrifugation at 11000xg for 10 min washed twice and mixed with pro- tective additives for freeze-drying.

among the differentially expressed proteins 4 protein spots which were up-regulated in all the lactobacillus-treated groups were selected for the identification by maldi-tof.table 2 the effect of three lactobacilli on the growth performance of weaned piglets during a 4-week feeding trialvalues are means - s.d n 6abcontrolg1-1g8-5g22-2controlg1-1g8-5g22-2fig.

it is assumed that the increasing intestinal microbial abundance caused by antibiotics or lactobacilli has more power to resist the disruption of microbial bal- ance further analysis on the microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract treated by lactobacilli and antibi- otics by pcr-dgge was investigated for the comparisontable 4 differentially expressed proteins in the ileum mucosa of piglets supplemented by three lactobacilli in diets compared with antibioticsa spot no.

up-regulation of four proteins including tpm2 vim krt19 and tpm1 in all three lactobacillus groups are all associatedwith the functions of maintaining and stabilizing cell structure and stabilization.

