2 5 and 6 in colour.a plant-rich diet showed a lower abundance of firmicutes and a higher abundance of bacteroidetes in their fecal micro- biota whereas the level of enterobacteriaceae was higher in european children who consumed a western diet 8.the western diet typically involves broiling grilling and frying food and those dry-heat processing techniques pro- mote the generation of advanced glycation end products ages in food 9. ages are heterogeneous groups of com- pounds formed through non-enzymatic reactions of reducing sugars or a-dicarbonyl with the free amino groups of proteins nucleic acids or lipids including ne-carboxymethyllysine cml ne-carboxyethyllysine and pyrraline among others 10. generally ages are present in protein-bound or free form and the predominant component of glycated amino acids in food is linked to proteins 11. it has been confirmed that ages contribute to the risk of inflammation-mediated pathological conditions such as type 2 diabetes hyperten- sion cardiovascular disease atherosclerosis and nephropathy 12-14. the adverse biological effects of ages are exerted through three main mechanisms cross-link formation in- teraction with receptors for advanced glycation end products rage and intracellular glycation 10. as a consequence of this cross-linking and unnatural amino acid formation ages are less available for absorption because of their re- sistance to digestive enzymes 15 16. in fact kinetic studies have estimated that 10-30 of consumed dietary ages are absorbed in the upper intestine and enter the circulation 17 whereas the remaining ages escape digestion and reach the large bowel where ages undergo anaerobic fermentation and might mutually modulate gut microbiota growth 18 19. because of the deglycating enzyme systems present in bac- teria 20 21 colonic microbiota are able to degrade selected glycated amino acids and possibly use them as a source of energy carbon or nitrogen 22. according to early oral cml administration studies the cml recovery rate never reached 100 in urine and feces suggesting that the remainder of the cml was degraded by colonic microbes 23 24.previous in vitro investigations showed that glycated pea proteins acted as favorable nutritional substrates for lacto- bacilli and bifidobacteria exerting a health-promoting effect in humans 25. high-molecular-weight brown compounds from bread crust seemed to selectively enhance the growth of bifidobacteria and might have prebiotic activity similar to that of dietary fibers 26. in contrast another in vitro study demonstrated that glucose-bovine serum albumin bsa re- action products modulated the colonic microbiota toward a more detrimental composition.

thus far the precise impact of dietary ages on gut microbiota remains controversial.the relevance of gut microbiota to health depends on the production of bacterial metabolites 30. for example short- chain fatty acids scfas such as acetate propionate and butyrate which are mainly produced by the microbial fer- mentation of non-digestible carbohydrates play a role in the regulation of energy metabolism and the suppression of in- flammation 31. protein fermentation in the colon occurs through deamination and it has been reported that ammo- nia one of the most common fermentation products is toxic to the host 16. branched-chain fatty acids bcfas are ex- clusively formed from branched-chain amino acids which are often used as fecal markers for protein fermentation 7. when inoculated feces from ulcerative colitis patients were examined the ammonia and bcfa contents were observed to be higher than those from healthy subjects 32. in addition to absorbing nutrients the intestine acts as an innate barrier to maintain the homeostasis of the internal environment 33. a thermolyzed diet increased colon nitrotyrosine level and the infiltration of macrophages indicating that ages have the potential to injure tissues with a weak antioxidant defense for example the intestinal tract 34. moreover the barrier function of the colon was found to be damaged in ulcerative colitis patients as a consequence of a high level of oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory cytokines 35. volunteers con- suming a western-style diet for one month demonstrated a 71 increase in the plasma level of endotoxin lipopolysaccha- ride lps activity 36. it is hypothesized that dietary ages can destroy gut barrier function.

increased gastrointestinal permeability may enable not only ages but also other toxic compounds to translocate from the gut into the circulation 18. indeed a large amount of experimental and clinical data have shown that abnormal gut barrier function not only is found in gut disorders but is also related to other pathologies that are di- rectly affected by the gut including hepatobiliary disorders renal failure 62 and central nervous system disorders 63. one recent report showed that the ileum and colon were the major sites of accumulation of dietary cml in rage-- mice fed a 13c2-cml-bsa-enriched diet 64. the activation of rage by dietary ages in intestinal epithelial cells could regulate nuclear transcription factor kappa b stimulating the production of reactive oxygen species and pro-inflammatory cytokines 65. additionally the intestinal microflora and their products have a significant influence on gut barrier function.

re- cently apoe-- mice were fed with a heat-treated high-fat diet for 8 weeks with a significant decrease in a-diversity and changes in gut microbiota composition were found using 16s rdna gene sequencing 29. however heat treatment of high-protein diets may provide further insight into the role of dietary ages in gut microbiota.

protein fermentation was enhanced supported by elevated ammonia and branched-chain fatty acid levels p  0.05. additionally the colonocytes structure changed and the expression of tight junction proteins in colon were decreased.conclusion dietary ages detrimentally modulate gut microbial ecology and may partially increase colon permeability which can adversely impact host health.keywordsadvanced glycation end products ages  cecal microbiota  colon permeability  dietary  microbial metaboliteadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived february 3 2017revised june 9 2017accepted june 12 2017introductionthe mammalian gastrointestinal tract houses an expansive number of microorganisms forming a microbial ecosystemcorrespondence prof. juxiu lie-mail abbreviations ages advanced glycation end products bc- fas branched-chain fatty acid bsa bovine serum albumin cml ne-carboxymethyllysine h-age high-ages diet hplc high-performance liquid chromatography l-age low-ages diet lefse linear discriminant analysis effect size lps lipopolysac- charide mrps maillard reaction products otus operational tax-with their microbial metabolites.

thus a large systematic experimental de- sign is needed to explore the influence of specific ages on the gut microbiota.in conclusion the intake of dietary ages reduced gut microbiota abundance and diversity potentially because of their resistance to digestive enzymes adversely altering gut microbiota composition.

61 10 2017 1700118conditions as follows 22 - 1degc with 55 - 15 relative hu- midity and a 1212 h light-dark cycle.after acclimatization for one week 30 rats were random- ized into six groups n  5 fed with either a regular ain-93g diet low-ages diet l-age or a heat-treated ain-93g diet high-ages diet h-age for 6 12 or 18 weeks and all ani- mals were provided ad libitum access to water.

both free and protein-bound fluorescence of ages in the h-age diet were significantly higher than in the l-age diet p  0.01. furthermore compared with the l-age diet the contents of free and protein-bound cml were el- evated 7.8- and 5.2-fold in the h-age diet 0.005 - 0.001 vs. 0.039 - 0.015 mgkg p  0.05 2.79 - 0.47 vs.14.45 - 0.65 mgkg p  0.01 respectively.

the healthy influences of dietary ages on gut microbiota are still a matter of debate and further studies are warranted to explore the effects of dietary ages interventions lasting longer than 18 weeks in rodent models.author contributions w.q.

2008 105 706-714.seiquer i. rubio l. a. peinado m. j. delgado-andrade c. navarro m. p. maillard reaction products modulate gut microbiota composition in adolescents.

anaerobe 1997 3 251-257.zackular j. p. rogers m. a. m. ruffin m. t. schloss p. d. the human gut microbiome as a screening tool for colorectal cancer.

gut ep- ithelial cells are influenced by both the environment in- cluding diet and toxicants and by microbial metabolites 60. the intestinal epithelium represents a huge surface area of approximately 100 m2 which is lined with a single layer of columnar intestinal epithelial cells to form a first-linepathway of entry for foods and a stout physical barrier for bacterial substances 61. such an enormous surface undoubt- edly comes into contact with ages which mainly originate from the diet.

7. this result indirectly indicates the presence of gut bacteria or their cell wall components in systemic circulation which is associated with increased colon permeability 35.discussionin this study a heat-treated diet with a high level of ages was fed to rats to comprehensively study the effects of ages on the composition of the cecal microbiota the concentrations of the microbial metabolites ammonia and scfas and colon permeability.

using a high-throughput sequencing technol- ogy the a-diversity of the gut microbiota was shown to be reduced in rats fed the h-age diet.

h. the influence of diet on the gut microbiota.

