reviewglucocorticoids and gut bacteria the galf hypothesis in the metagenomic eradavid j. morris jason m. ridlona department of pathology and laboratory medicine the miriam hospital warren alpert medical school of brown university providence ri united statesb department of animal sciences division of nutritional sciences carl r. woese institute for genomic biology university of illinois at urbana-champaign il united statesc department of microbiology and immunology virginia commonwealth university school of medicine richmond va united statesa r t i c l e i n f o keywords corticosterone cortisol17a-hydroxylase deficiencykidney 11b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase gut microbiotaclostridium eggerthella glycyrrhetinic acidapparent mineralocorticoid excess essential hypertensiongalfs21-dehydroxylase steroid-1720-desmolasea b s t r a c t a new concept is emerging in biomedical sciences the gut microbiota is a virtual 'organ' with endocrine function.

received 14 may 2017 accepted 12 june 20170039-128xc2017elsevierinc.allrightsreserved.here we explore the available evidence linking gut microbial meta- bolism of host glucocorticoids with essential hypertension and make suggestions for future research.the gut microbiome and hypertensionthe gut microbiota are now recognized to play an important role in cardiovascular disease .

importantly the formation of c-19 5a-11b- 17b-metabolites in the human gut suggest that the gut microbiota may be a significant source of 11b-hydroxylated androgens and as we will see a significant source of galfs in some individuals.conclusionsthe study of the role of gut microbiota in hypertension is in its in- fancy.

parallel observations in gut microbiology coupled with screening of endogenous steroids as inhibitors of 11b-hsd2 have implicated particular gut bacteria in essential hypertension through the production of glycerrhetinic acid-like factors galfs.

a major question remains what are the mechanisms by which gut microbiota affect host blood pressure steroid metabolism by gut bacteria has been understudied and a body of literature suggests a potential mechanismdeveloped over the past fifteen to twenty years known as the galf hypothesis which will be described in what follows.genetic defect in or inhibition of a renal isoform of the enzyme 11b- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-2 11b-hsd2 causes a severe form of hypertension .

studies of gut bacterial steroid metabolism coupled with studies on endogenous 11b-hsd2- inhibitors of adrenal origin suggest a novel and unexplored mechanism by which gut bacterial metabolites increase blood pressure.

gut bacteria influence cardiovascular health particularly through chronic low-grade inflammation and gut microbiome composition is affected by physical activity obesity alcohol intake and smoking all of which are factors determining risk of hypertension .human glucocorticoids cortisol and corticosteronecorticosterone was the first steroid hormone isolated from adrenal gland extracts in 1937  followed by deoxycorticosteronedoc the steroid precursor of corticosterone .

while conventional thought ignores the role of both cortisol and corticosterone metabolism in the gut there is reason to revisit this question.it is intriguing that large quantities of corticosterone reached the gut in comparison to cortisol and that there may be inter-individual dif- ferences in humans of this route in corticosterone excretion.

rectal infusion of cortisol in humans with ulcerative colitis resulted in 100-fold in- crease in urinary 17-ketosteroids which was not observed following oral neomycin treatment .these observations not only implicate gut bacteria in the conversion of cortisol to 17-ketosteroids but also demonstrate that gut bacteria control the route by which colonic cortisol is excreted.

thus additional research is needed to measure cortisol in the gut microbial metabolites of cortisol in urine and to determine if cortisol may enter the colonic lumen via colono- cytes or other routes.while only a few studies have examined cortisol levels in the gut ofhumans  much work has been done in production animals and animals important to conservation biology.

thus the interplay between liver and gut bacterial 5a5b-reductases within and between persons determines whether 21-dehydroxylated or s1720d me- tabolites contribute to the elevated blood pressure bp in essentialhypertension  .steroid-1720-desmolase by the urinary microbiotarecent identification and characterization of a 20b-hsd encoded on a multi-gene operon from the s1720d expressing gut bacterium b. desmolans produced an unexpected finding .

here we explore the literature pertaining to the role of gut microbial metabolism of endogenous adrenocorticosteroids as a contributing factor in the etiology of essential hypertension.

a protective role of galfs produced by gut bacteria in the etiology of colorectal cancer is also explored.introductionroughly 70 million americans are afflicted with hypertension 1 of every 3 adults a major contributor to the number one cause of death- cardiovascular disease .

hypertension is viewed as a modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular disease and the gut microbiome appears to play an important role in the etiology of hypertension.

indeed sev- eral studies demonstrate structural and functional changes in the gut microbiome  causally associated with hypertension as evidenced by phenotypic transfer of hypertension via stool from donor to recipient .

