Studies of lipid levels in mice of the FCG XX female XX male XY female and XY male mice revealed that under basal conditions in which the mice were fed a chow diet plasma HDL cholesterol levels were higher in animals with XX versus XY chromosome complement as well as in mice with male versus female gonads Figure 5.

Along with increased adiposity XX mice developed fatty liver and had elevated levels of fasting insulin Figure 5 both of which are comorbidities of obesity in humans.The provocative finding that XX mice have greater adiposity than XY mice raised the questionof whether the effect was due to the presence of two X chromosomes or to the absence of a Y chromosome.

When body weight of these mice was followed for several months following gonadectomy the XX and XXY mice had greater body weight than did XY and XO mice 21.

However although both XX and XY mice were obese the XX mice had greater adiposity and hyperinsulinemia making it difficult to determine whether the fatty liver in XX mice was independent or secondary to these other metabolic effects.THE GUT MICROBIOME AND SEX DIFFERENCES IN METABOLIC SYNDROMEIn the past several years there has been a surge in studies investigating the connection between the gut microbiome and human health.

This model generates mice with XX chromosomes on both male and female gonadal backgrounds and XY mice on male and female gonadal backgrounds 4-6.

For example if a trait is influenced by gonadal sex male mice with XX or XY chromosomes will be similar but will differ from female mice with XX or XY chromosomes.

However if a trait is influenced by sex chromosome complement XX female and male mice will be similar to one another but will differ from XY female and male mice Figure 4.

In mice fed a high-fat diet adipocyte precursor cells proliferate and differentiate into mature adipocytes to a much greater degree than in mice fed a standard chow diet as would be expected.

However compared with the corresponding wild-type mice visceral fat mass was reduced in female but not male Aldh1a1-- mice.

One hypothesis is that increasedexpression of genes escaping X chromosome inactivation in XX mice may cause phenotypic dif- ferences between XX and XY mice 21 69 70.

