however such rationale and practice vastly disregards the importance of a healthy gut microbiome for proficient intestinal function.the intestinal microbiota has received consider- able interest in recent years and research is begin- ning to uncover the pivotal role gut microflora play in the complex homeostatic host-microbial interac- tions essential for maintaining intestinal health reviewed in ref.. germ free animal studies revealed substantial defects in the development of various gut-associated lymphoid tissues as well as reduced intestinal epithelial cell iec turnover when compared with specific pathogen free con- trols.in addition mice lacking myd88 adaptor protein essential for toll-like receptor signaling demonstrated that recognition of commensal bacte- ria by tlr on the apical surface of iec is funda- mental for both maintenance of intestinalsignificantly host diet.a plethora of literature now exists detailing the effects of diet modulation on the intestinal microbiota reviewed in ref.. notably a recent mouse model of total parenteral nutrition tpn demonstrated that enteral nutrient deprivation leads to significant shifts in microbial dominance with associated reduced epithelial turn- over and intestinal atrophy.we propose that loop ileostomy-mediated fecal stream diversion and the resultant loss of enteral nutrition in the downstream intestine alters micro- biota composition which in turn affects iec turnover and consequently impacts on intestinal structure and function.

total genomic dna was extracted using qiaamp cador pathogen lysis minikit qiagen according to the manufacturer's protocol.luminal bacterial dna extractionmedia samples were centrifuged at 6000xg to pellet bacteria and resuspended in 500ml buffer atl qia- gen. pellets were subjected to mechanical lysis atmaximum speed for 10 minutes in pathogen lysis tubes qiagen before dna extraction using qiaamp ucp pathogen mini kit qiagen according to the manufacturer's protocol.denaturation gradient gel electrophoresis dgge profilinga highly conserved 200bp sequence neighboring the v3 hypervariable region of the 16s rrna gene was amplified using universal 16s rrna primers 341fgc and 518r table s1.gels were post- stained using sybr gold nucleic acid gel stain and visualized using image lab software with 4 sec- onds exposure.

data was normalized to total bacteria using universal pri- mers and the relative abundances of each phylum determined using the delta delta ct 2ddct algo- rithm method.determination of total bacterial loadtotal bacterial load in the functional and defunctioned intestine was measured via qpcr using universal eubacterial 16s rrna primers uni334f and uni514r table s1 and sybr green readymix sigma- aldrich.

these results provide novel insights into the effect of loop ileostomy-associ- ated enteral nutrient deprivation on the intestinal microbiota which may underpin the substantial mor- bidity rate observed following loop ileostomy closure.the data presented demonstrates substantial dis- tortion of intestinal mucosal architecture following fecal stream diversion with significant atrophy of villi in the defunctioned limb.

participant demographics and post-surgical clinical data are presented in .sample acquisition and handlingloop ileostomy reversal surgery involves reanasto- mosis of functional and defunctioned ileum using atable 1. participant demographics and post-surgical clinical data.participant demographics and post-surgical clinical data age years58 ss 16bmi26.0 ss 2.4homeostasis and repair in response to injury.thedays since ileostomy formation392 ss 264composition of the intestinal microbiota is modu- lated by various host genetic and environmental factors including medical practices such as antibi- otic use method of childbirth and mostgender  females51crp mgl87.9 ss 54.8albumin gl38.1 ss 3.4wbc x109l9.4 ss 1.7note.

dgge profiles were proc- essed digitally using bionumerics software version 7.5 applied maths following the manufacturer's guidelines.dgge band excision and sequencing analysisamplicons from dgge bands of interest were reamplified directly from the gel via inoculation using a sterile pipette tip.

consen- sus sequences were generated using bioedit software available at  and sequences were then classified using nucle- otide basic local alignment search tool blastn available online at .

p s 0.05 was deemed statisti- cally significant  p s 0.05  p s 0.01  p s 0.001.resultsdefunctioned intestine is atrophied but not inflamedwe confirmed that intestinal atrophy occurs following loop ileostomy-mediated defunctioning .

small intestinal bacterial load isfigure 2. histological analyses of function and defunctioned ileum.

on aver- age the total number of bands in the defunctioned profiles was lower than the number observed in the functional profiles average of 16 bands to 11 bands respectively  indicating that fecal stream diversion reduces diversity of the intestinal microbiota.

b average percent proliferating pcna positive cellscrypt ss sem n d 5 p d 0.01. c paired percent pcna-positive cells per crypt in the functional and defunctioned intestine.rather than increased apoptosis which may be due to the lack of pro-proliferative microbial signals.discussionour study has demonstrated a strong relationship between loop ileostomy-mediated fecal stream diver- sion and profound alterations in the intestinal micro- biota termed dysbiosis.

for example bacterial derived butyrate is a primary energy source for iecs and recognition of commensal microbes by epithelial tlr is known to be crucial for maintaining intestinal homeosta- sis.

intestinal dysbiosis has been linked to the pathogenesis of numerous chronic diseases due to the induction of a proinflammatory state within the intestine.

the intestinal microbiome is sensitive to local nutritional fluctuations and extreme prolonged starvation in the defunctioned ileumappears to rapidly deplete bacterial load.

it is likely that an initial period of inflammation following ileos- tomy formation occurs as evidenced by the fibrotic nature of intestinal tissue.

