asterisks indicate significant differences p 0.05. pc principal component mpl milk phospholipids co coconut oil ro rapeseed oil sl soy lecithin.univariate statistical analysis showed that only a few bacterial families were significantly differently affected by the type of emulsifier but when considering the entire community composition by pca significant effects were observed.emulsification in sl thus led to a bacterial composition characterized by more enterobacteriaceae and enterococcaceae while emulsification in mpl led to a relative increase of porphyromonadaseae fig.

both the pl-type used for emulsification and the fa composition of the tag in infant formula -mimicking emulsions given during gut colonization might affect the microbial composition.

openreceived 25 november 2016accepted 15 may 2017 published xx xx xxxxfatty acid composition and phospholipid types used in infant formulas modifies the establishment of human gut bacteria in germ-free micerikke guldhammer nejrup12 tine rask licht 2  lars ingvar hellgren 1human milk fat contains high concentrations of medium-chained fatty acids mcfa and triacylglycerols emulsified by a sphingomyelin-rich phospholipid membrane milk phospholipids mpl.

regarding the particle size of lipid droplets these were homogeneous and similar between all three emulsions over time ranging from 0.04-3 um with a meanof around 0.5 um thus similar to lipid droplets in infant formulas.

the composition of the pl-fraction varies during lactation and different studies report slightly different compositions however the major pls in human mfgm are sphingomyelin sm 30-45 phosphati- dylcholine pc 20-40 phosphatidylethanolamine pe 15-25 phosphatidylserine ps 10-20 and phos- phatidylinositol pi 5-10-. the lipid droplets in infant formulas are typically stabilized by a combination of dairy protein and a crude phospholipid fraction lecithin usually extracted from soy bean soy lecithin sl.

lipid hydrolysis products affect the composition of infant gut microbial communities in vitro.

we investigated effects of fatty acid fa composition and emulsification mpl vs sl ingested during establishment of human gut microbiota in germ-free mice and found that cecal microbiotas from mice given mcfa-rich emulsions were characterized by high relative abundances of bacteroidaceaeand desulfovibrionaceae while lcfa-rich emulsions caused higher abundances of enterobacteriaceae erysipelotrichaceae coriobacteriaceae and enterococcaceae.

the family lachnospiraceae accounted for 3.7 while enterococcaceae accounted for 0.9. lactobacillaceae and streptococcaceae both accounted for approximately 0.5. bacteroidaceae porphyromonadaceae rikenellaceae enterobacteriaceae sutterellaceae veillonellaceae acidaminococcaceae clostridiaceae peptostreptococcaceae ruminococcaceae and erysipelotrichaceae were all present however at levels below 0.5. the remaining 3.6 of the families either belonged to families represented by less than 0.02 or by families that could not be classified by the rdb classifier.colonized microbial communities at day 2 5 and 12. figure illustrates the bacterial distribution at family level in fecal samples collected at day 2 5 and 12. in all groups the bacterial composition at day 2 characterized by enterobacteriaceae and clostridiaceae deviated significantly from the other days at pc1 p  0.001 fig.

statistical analysis offigure 1. fecal bacterial composition in mice at bacterial family level at day 2 5 and 12 after emulsion consumption as assessed by principal component analysis.

.discussionthis study aimed to investigate whether intake of oil types characterized by either mcfa or lcfa and of emul- sions based on sl or mpls during infant microbiota establishment led to differences in the bacterial composition.

the animal model applied here was thus not designed to mimic effects of the establishing microbiota on the host health and immune system but was specifically intended to elucidate the effect of dietary lipids on an establishing human gut microbiota in an intestinal environment.16s rrna sequencing revealed that both type of oil and type of emulsifier when consumed as emulsions in drinking water significantly influenced the composition of the cecal gut microbiota in originally germ-free mice inoculated with human infant microbiota.

hence the differences in gut microbiota establishment caused by intake of the different types of oil may be a consequence of specific anti- bacterial activities as well as growth promoting properties of the fas.figure 3. effect of oil left and type of emulsifier right on the bacterial family composition in cecum as assessed by principal component analysis.

however we find that the lack of bifidobacteria did not necessarily affect the relevance of the mouse model for studies of effects of dietary factors on other bacterial strains.within each group the bacterial composition was seen to be quite similar at days 5 and 12 while a dif- ferent microbiota was present at day 2 fig.

84 245-58 2005.sala-vila a. castellote a. i. rodriguez-palmero m. campoy c.  lopez-sabater m. c. lipid composition in human breast milk from granada spain changes during lactation.

human milk fat globules from different stages of lactation a lipid composition analysis and microstructure characterization.

