4. spx1 protein localization in mouse gt1 neuron derived cells a-e and spinal cord f. a-e weak but positive red staining in cells without gdnhcl unmasking a and more intense staining in 2 and 3 m gdnhcl-treated cells b and c. staining was completely blocked by the spx1 peptide d as shown in parallel stained cells first exposed to 3 m gdnhcl.

gt1 neuronal cells as brain consistently showed comparable resistance of the 41-kda band 10 but the pk digests again showed a far weaker 19-kda signal in gt1 cells compared with brain 1 vs. 4 as seen with its prp counterpart in fig.

the rea- sons for spx1 resistance and the significantly lower amounts of the 19-kda band in gt1 cells are not known but one possibility is that a ligand in brain may limit digestion of some molecules.to find out whether spx1 is compartmentalized differently inmonotypic gt1 cells versus complex brain samples we first evaluated the proportion of spx1 in crude and more purifiedsubcellular fractions from previously characterized frozen nl and infected samples 19 25. the only meaningful finding from these studies was that the vast majority of the spx1 protein 83 partitioned with the 10000 x g cytosol whereas mouse and hamster brains contained 18 of the spx1 in the membrane- myelinated axon fraction that also contains many synapses and dendrites.

a major 41-kda band is present in all control nl and infected gt1 cells lanes 1 and 2 mouse brain mo-cns lanes 3 and 4 hamster brain ha-cns lanes 5 and 6 and a human glioblastoma brain sample hu-gb lane 7. an additional 19-kda spx1-positive band is seen in the central nervous system samples.

scale bar in a 100 mm for a-d. higher magnification after 2 m gdnhcl treatment shows the most intense spx1 signal in perinuclear region and some fibril-like elements in the uppermost gt1 cell e. staining patterns were the same as representatively shown here in uninfected a-d and fu-cjd-infected cells e. f murine insulin-producing pancreatic islet cells at arrow are intensely stained whereas exocrine pancreatic cells have no signal.

cellular processing of spx1 might contribute to the tissue-specific expression and neural-derived cells showed significantly lower amounts of the 19-kda spx1 band in gt1 cells versus brain.

subsequently the sphinx dnas were independently isolated in europe from human multiple sclerosis brains cow milk and serum 21 22 and additional pcr studies here revealed sphinx dnas were present in uninfected samples and thus may not be the sole causal tse agent 17. their unique cytoplasmic residence strong bacte- riophage homology and potential mammalian functions espe- cially in brain impelled further study.we here focus on the sphinx 1.8 dna translation into protein and its representation in cultured neuronal gt1 cells and in control versus tse brain samples with severe end-stage neurodegeneration e.g.

detailed tissue-specific expression and conservation of specific synaptic patterns of spx1 including ongoing studies of human brain in addition to the current results comparing more primitive neuronal cells brain and pancreatic tissue strongly in- dicate that spx1 is fundamentally involved in differentiation.

the data here demonstrate that a commensal circular cytoplasmic dna is propagated andexpressed in various mammalian cells including neurons and pancreatic insulin-secreting cells.

the cytoplasm of cjd- and scrapie-infected cells but not control cells also contains virus- like particle arrays 18 and because we were able to isolate these nuclease-protected particles with quantitative recovery of infectivity but with little or no detectable prp 17 19 we began to analyze protected nucleic acids.

because spx1 showed significant pk resistance and its genomic dna was protected we also exposed cells to more disruptive gdnhcl treatments si materials and methods that unmask hidden antigens 2 and 3 m gdnhcl opens and inactivates many viruses including cjd and scrapie 25. in gt1 cells the spx1 red signal preferentially concentrated in the perinuclear rer-golgi region and showed relatively low plasma membrane staining fig.

the exocrine pancreas cells lack detectable spx1 protein whereas the islet insulin-producing cells contain abundant spx1 protein red.

in sum spx1 expression is cell type- and tissue-specific and its presence in terminal syn- aptic structures contrasts with its diffuse cytoplasmic pattern in the more primitive gt1 neuronal cells and specialized islet cells.

the 1.76-kb dna sequence sphinx 1.8 with an iteron before its orf was evaluated here for its expression in neural cells and brain.

in humans both the jc papova viral dna and measles viral structures have been detected in- cidentally in normal brain 3 4. nevertheless the rare transfer of these infectious agents to germline cells especially with pro- gressive dissemination to normal offspring stands in sharp con- trast to the conserved cytoplasmic perpetuation of mitochondrial dna.

