helicopter travel did not affect search performance p  005. we found that a- and b-diversity measures of faecal microbiota were not affected p  005. our data suggest that although helicopter travel may cause physio- logical changes that have been associated with stress in working dogs it does not make an impact on their search performance or the stability of faecal microbiota.key words working canines stress dogs travel stressfederal emergency management agency fema canines are often called upon to deploy into scenarios that are unsafe1-6.

although stress from travel has not been well studied it can cause a wide variety of physiological and psychological health issues in canines including increased activity of the sympa- thetic nervous system increased release of catecholamine and increased blood pressure7.stress from travellingprior work has reported stress in dogs8 for both ground and air transportation.

literature regarding signs of stress in working dogs is available22-24 however there are few data assessing their performance following environmental stress.

future studies should include measurements taken over several days in order to min- imise effect of day.there are few data available regarding the effects of chronic stress on the working dog microflora and it appears that theacute nature of the stress applied in this test i.e.

it may simply be that the nature of commercial airline travel stress occurring over many hours with unfamiliar environment is sufficient to cause a change in the gut microbiota but the short-lived stress of helicopter travel is not.there were some limitations to our study.

physiological effects of stress related to helicopter travel in federal emergency management agency search-and-rescue caninese.

stress associated with helicopter flight and the resulting physical effects on the dog are unknown.

a total of nine fema canines were loaded onto helicopters and flown for 30 min in july 2015. rectal temperature behavioural stress indi- cators and saliva swabs for cortisol were collected at baseline loading mid-flight and post-flight.

visible indicators of stress were observed at loading and at mid-flight and corresponded with an increase p  005 in salivary cortisol from 54 ugl baseline to 64 ugl loading.

the leading cause of companion animal death during flight has been attributed to over-sedation fol- lowed by respiratory and immunological depression linked to the stress of air travel and finally deaths associated with mis- handling of animals in carriers8.

perceived by humans as unfavourable9 more investiga- tion is warranted regarding the effects of travel stress on theirabbreviations fema federal emergency management agency otu operational taxonomic unit.

baseline samples were collected at approximately09.00 hours including rectal temperature heart rate saliva col- lection via sterile swab as well as assessments for stress beha- viours as noted by fema handlers and two fema evaluators13.

baseline performance data included total search time stress behaviours and compliance with handler com- mands.

signs of stress avoidance successful completion and total search time were recorded.

no stress behaviours were observed during search and all canines successfully completed the standar- dised exercise.

