openreceived 15 november 2016accepted 26 april 2017 published xx xx xxxxdiet-induced reconstruction of mucosal microbiota associated with alterations of epithelium lectin expression and regulation in themaintenance of rumen homeostasishong shen12 zhongyan lu3 zhihui xu12  zanming shen3it is unknown whether lectins of the rumen epithelium contribute to the recognition of mucosal microbes and activation of tolerogenic cytokines in ruminant animals.

however to date it is unclear how the gi epithelium recognizes mucosal bacteria and which types of signals are involved in the communication between the gi epithelium and mucosal microbiota.lectins are a class of genes whose sequences have several carbohydrate-recognition domains also referred to as lectin domains.

throughout evolution the gi epithelium has developed a complex gene network to regulate the activities of the mucosal microbiota and responses of immune cells to provide a harmonious coexistence between the host's immune system and gi microbiota.

meantime in the rumen epithelium five lectin genes namely sialic acid- binding ig-like lectin 14 loc102180073 c-type lectin domain family 4 member e clec4e c-type lectin domain family 7 member a clec7a c-type lectin domain family 16 member a clec16a and lectin mannose-binding 2 lman2 were indicated to promote the expression of 8 tolerogenic cytokines transforming growth factor beta 1 tgfb1 and 4 enzyme genes involved in retinoic acid biosynthesis via 6 signaling pathways.

comparing the expression of the genes encoding ils tgfs and chemokines between groups we found that the expression of 8 cytokine genes and tgfb1 was significantly upregulated in the lc group table .

subsequently these five functional lectins contributed to the downregulated expression of 9 tolerogenic cytokines tgfb1 and 4 enzyme genes involved in retinoic acid biosynthesis by downregulating the expression of genes related to six signaling pathways.

these findings provide new insights into the interactions between the rumen epithelium and mucosal microbiota in the maintenance of rumen homeostasis.the mucosal microbiota is a group of gastrointestinal gi microbiota that inhabits the mucus layer of the gi tract.

such alterations in the compositions of the mucosal microbiota induced upregulated expression of five membrane-bound lectins on the rumen epithelium.

compared with the group inhabiting the fluid phase of the gi tract the mucosal microbiota plays a more critical role in the development and performance of the immune functions of the gi epithelium as well as the whole organism .

other possible types of regulation involved in the cellular community development metabolism and transcription modulation are listed in table .five members of the lectin families that had upregulated expression in the lc group were involved in the regulation of immune activities in the rumen epithelium sialic acid-binding ig-like lectin 14 loc102180073 c-type lectin domain family 16 member a clec16a c-type lectin domain family 7 member a clec7a mannose-binding lectin 2 lman2l and c-type lectin domain family 4 member e clec4e.

these activities which are associated with an expanded microbiota seem to create an alert environment for the immune system with proper suppression of the inflammatory responses at the barrier site.alteration of microbial metabolic products in the mucus layer is a crucial reason for the change in lectin expression in the ruminal epithelium.

moreover the co-expression network constructed in this study predicted that 4 additional mechanisms were involved in the programming functions of clrs on the innate and adaptive immune responses namely leukocyte recruitment leukocyte trans-endothelial migrationfigure 3. regulation network of the lectin genes related to immune activities.

otus belonging to the family lachnospiraceae showed an inconsistent trend with 2 otus expanding significantly and 3 otus shrinking sig- nificantly in the mc group.a rarefaction curve fig.

mucosal immunology 2 340-350 doi2009.le y. zhou y. iribarren p.  wang j. chemokines and chemokine receptors their manifold roles in homeostasis and disease.cellular  molecular immunology 1 95-104 2004.shelite t. r. et al.

science 342 447-453 doi2013.cornelissen l. a.  van vliet s. j. a bitter sweet symphony immune responses to altered o-glycan epitopes in cancer.biomolecules 6 doi2016.coombes j. l. et al.

