given that the liver and gut are connected through the portal vein we can speculate that anti-inflammatory effects of spirulina in the liver may be dependent on improvements of the gut immune system or changes in gut barrier function via the production of amps .

moreover improvement of the homeostasis in the gut ecosystem could be essential for the gut health during the aging process and in this perspective dietary manipulation of the gut microbiota of the elderly with spirulina may represent a tool for preserving a healthy gastrointestinal microbial community in addition to its beneficial effects on immune function.supplementary materials the following are available online at  figure s1 inflammatory markers measured in the plasma using luminexr technology table s1 primer sequences used for quantitative pcr table s2 abundance of bacteria taxa expressed in percentage that are statistically impacted by the dietary treatment as determined by pyrosequencing of 16srna gene file s1 16s rdna high-throughput sequencing.acknowledgments we thank remi selleslagh bouazza es saadi and veronique allaeys for skillful technical assistance and carine nezer quality partner s.a. herstal belgium for performing the metagenetic analysis.l.b.b.

we conclude that the oral administration of a spirulina is able to modulate the gut microbiota and to activate the immune system in the gut a mechanism that may be involved in the improvement of the hepatic inflammation in aged mice.

the maintenance of the gut microbial ecosystem could be essential for the preservation of key gut functions during the aging process .

in the present study regiiig and pla2g2 were increased by the supplementation with spirulina suggesting that the host contributes to the reduction and modification of the microbial community by modulating the production of specific amps .modulation of the gut microbiota is one of the important factors influencing gut immunity .

anti-inflammatory effects of phycocyanin present in the spirulina or its chromophore phycocyanobilin could be another mechanism explaining the anti-inflammatory effect in the liver independently of a modulation of the gut microbiota andor the gut immune function.

the fact that its oral consumption can influence both gut immunity and systemic sites such as the liver suggests that its immune action is not confined to the gut immune system.

articlespirulina protects against hepatic inflammation in aging an effect related to the modulation of the gut microbiotaaudrey m. neyrinck 1 bernard taminiau 2 hannah walgrave 1 georges daube 2 patrice d. cani 13 laure b. bindels 1 and nathalie m. delzenne 1metabolism and nutrition research group louvain drug research institute universite catholique de louvain b-1200 brussels belgium a.m.n.h.w.

we have tested the potential hepatoprotective effect of a spirulina in aged mice and to determine whether these effects can be related to a modulation of the gut microbiota.

among several changes of gut microbiota composition an increase in roseburia and lactobacillus proportions occurs upon spirulina treatment.

those data open the way to new therapeutic tools in the management of immune alterations in aging based on gut microbe-host interactions.keywords spirulina aging microbiota inflammaging gut-liver axisintroductionthe human lifespan has been increased steadily during modern times mainly due to medical advancements in various life-threatening diseases.

recent studies shed light on the composition of the gut microbiota throughout life and explore their role in aging .

indeed with a global impact on the physiology of the intestinal tract the aging process can seriously affect the composition of the human gut microbiota.

the subsequent reduced bacterial excretion alters the gut fermentative processes .

moreover considering the impact of the diet on the gut microbiota composition changes in nutritional behavior and lifestyle of the aged people concur to the age-related imbalance of the intestinal microbial community.

