the results of a principal component analysis pcoa weighted unifrac distance based on otu composition showed that the gut microbiota of patients with severe liver disease who were awaiting lt surgery pre-lt were significantly different from that of control patients which corresponded to the first principal component pc1 p  0.0066. additionally a second principal component pc2 corresponded to a significant difference in the gut microbiota of the same patients between pre-lt and post-lt p  0.03125. however there was no significant difference in the top three principal components between the post-lt patients and the controls fig.

lu et al.analyzed the variation in the microbiome during the perioperative period in lt patients by performing denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge and their results showed that the diversity in predominant intestinal microbes decreased substantially in patients who experienced infection during the perioperative period.using miseq-pe250 sequencing technology combined with bioinformatics analysis we studied the characteristics of the intestinal microbiota from patients with end-stage liver disease before and after they received lt. the pur- pose of this study was to analyze the differences in the intestinal microflora of patients between pre-lt and post-lt to investigate the effect of lt therapy and subsequent immunosuppressive treatment on the intestinal microflora thereby providing experimental data further revealing the mechanism by which liver diseases alter the gut microbiota.methodsstudy population.

the increased amino acid metabo- lism in patients after lt indicates that the level of intestinal nutrients is increased and the digestive and absorptive functions of the intestinal tract are improved in these patients .liver function gradually improves and portal venous pressure is relieved in recipients after lt. our study indicates that fecal microbial communities were significantly altered following lt and that the gut microbi- ota composition of lt recipients was more similar to that of healthy controls after the lt surgery.

we found that the gut microbiota of patients with severe liver disease who were awaiting lt was significantly different from that of healthy controls as represented by the first principal component p 0.0066.additionally the second principal component represented a significant difference in the gut microbiota of patients between pre-lt and post-lt surgery p 0.03125. after lt there was a significant decrease in the abundance of certain microbial species such as actinobacillus escherichia and shigella and a significant increase in the abundance of other microbial species such as micromonosporaceae desulfobacterales the sarcina genus of eubacteriaceae and akkermansia.

liver transplantation lt resolves the associated problems in patients with liver failure or portal hypertension following lt the liver function of patients gradually returns to normal and portal hypertension-related gastrointestinal diseases can be alleviated.currently no study has reported on the differences in the intestinal microbiota of patients who received lt as measured using 16s ribosomal rna rrna sequencing technology.

no significant differences in microbial richness observed species chao1 and ice indices or diversity shannon simpson and invsimpson indices were found between any of the three cohorts pre-lt patients post-lt patients and healthy controls p  0.05 table .changes to gut microbiota composition in recipients of lt surgery.

additionally the relative abundances of clostridium cluster xiva corynebacterium and blautia were significantly increased following lt surgery and their relative abundances in the post-lt samples were greater than those in the control samples.figure 6. the abundance of akkermansia in samples from patients collected before and after lt surgery is shown.table 3. modules enriched in post-lt samples compared with pre-lt samples.differences in metabolic pathways between groups.

the results of our pcoa based on otu composition showed that the gut microbiota of patients with severe liver disease who were awaiting lt surgery was significantly different from that of control subjects however there was no significant difference in the gut microbiota between post-lt and control samples.

however the abundance of escherichia was significantly decreased after lt surgery the fold-change in abundance was not significantly different between hcc and non-hcc samples and this decrease might be partially attributable to lt in patients with liver cirrhosis prior to the lt surgery.

for case 6 although the weighted unifrac distance from the healthy control group was not sig- nificantly changed the sample after lt surgery post6 was binned into e3 which otherwise consisted solely of healthy controls.of the four recipients without an enterotype change after receiving lt cases 2 4 5 and 9 the gut micro- biota of two cases 2 and 4 significantly skewed from that of the healthy controls after receiving lt surgery beta-diversity was significantly increased.

p  0.03823 indicating that the gut microbiota composition of lt recipients became more similar to that of healthy controls after the lt surgery.previous studies have demonstrated a clear stratification of human gut microbiota compositions i.e.

of the nine lt patients four had liver failure because of decompensated cirrhosis and five had hepatocellular carcinoma hcc the charac- teristics of the patients are presented in supplementary tables  and .

bacterial infection and acute bleeding from upper gastrointestinal tract in patients with liver cirrhosis.hepatogastroenterology 52 1488-1490 2005.hillert c. fischer l. broering d. c.  rogiers x. liver transplantation in patients with liver cirrhosis and esophageal bleeding.langenbecks arch surg 388 150-154 2003.lu h. et al.

here we focused on the characteristics of intestinal fecal microbial communities in post-liver transplantation lt patients in comparison with those in the same individuals pre-lt and in healthy individuals.

all patients were undergoing primary non-bypass orthotopic lt for the first time and the method of biliary anastomosis was end-to-end anastomosis.

