opiate processes are noted because of their pres- ence and influence on bacteria gut and neurovascular mod- ulation 714-20. in this regard one may speculate that the pathway to the endogenous synthesis of morphine may be compromised since it involves dopamine as a major precursor which is well established in psychiatric phenomena 2122. morphine generally exerts a calming action on excitatory ac- tivity and behavior including gut physiological actions 2023. endogenous morphine selectively interacts with a mu-3 like receptor that is coupled to constitutive nitric oxide synthase cnos that occurs in neural and gut tissues 72024-28.morphine exerts cell membrane and mitochondrial membrane actions which appear to be evolutionarily conserved prob- ably due to the mitochondrion's bacterial origin 29. thus morphine-nitric oxide synthase morphine-nos coupling to produce no is a mitochondrial regulating chemical messen- ger 2229-34. this newer coupling phenomena in eukaryot- ic cells probably supplemented the already present nitrite re- ductase driven no generating system found in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells thus producing more no for mitochon- drial modulation in an aerobic environment 35-38. moreover one can speculate that as no accumulates at the cellular lev- el energy metabolism would start to diminish and if allowed to continue more drastic physiological consequences would occur e.g.

behavioral changes are not limited just to ciprofloxacin but also occur with exposure to metronidazole 48 ofloxacin 49 trime- thoprim-sulfamethoxazole 50 cotrimoxazole 51 procainepenicillin 52 and clarithromycin 5354.microbes in the gut may also affect the activation state of white blood cells which can enter the brain compartment and communicate with neurons in an abnormal state and num- bers 6. in the shared commonality of chemical communica- tion with bacteria antibiotic-induced interactions represent a critical factor in the micro-environmental and in organismic survival 39. thus an enhanced microbial presence or a shift in their microbiome ratio and an antibiotic presence may in- duce behavior disorders.

received 2017.05.22accepted 2017.06.06published 2017.06.21e-issn 1643-3750c med sci monit 2017 23 3039-3043 doi 10.12659msm.905425microbiome a potential component in the origin of mental disordersauthors' contribution study design a data collection bstatistical analysis c data interpretation d manuscript preparation e literature search f funds collection gadef george b. stefanoadef radek ptacekadef jiri rabochadef richard m. kreamdepartment of psychiatry charles university first faculty of medicine and general teaching hospital center for cognitive molecular neuroscience pragueczech republiccorresponding authorgeorge b. stefano e-mail source of supportin part the study was funded by the department of psychiatry charles university prague czech republicit is not surprising to find microbiome abnormalities present in psychiatric disorders such as depressive disor- ders bipolar disorders etc.

the origin of some disorders associated with this bidirectional communication may be harnessed to restore normal functioning.mesh keywordsmicrobiota - physiology  psychiatry - history  depression - microbiology  fecal impaction - psychologyfull-text pdf1484----79neuropsychiatric disordersit is slowly becoming evident that neuropsychiatric disorders have a commonality in that they tend to exhibit simultane- ously a proinflammatory phenomenon 12. this proinflam- matory event which takes place in a microenvironment may be part of a detection and repair process which becomes evi- dent when a clinical condition brings it to a level of awareness.

we speculate that in susceptible in- dividuals and in individuals using these agents for extended periods of time and when antibiotics are use at non-recom- mended doses theses antibiotics may turn an acute stress response into one that is chronic andor one that upsets the balance of bacteria in the gut thereby altering its excitation potential and thus impact the brain 55.recent reports have demonstrated that consumption of se- lect probiotic agents may represent a novel treatment meth- od for major depressive disorder using a preclinical rodent model 5657. the veracity of these observations is substan- tiated by another therapeutic treatment which influences gut brain-gut communication e.g.

the appearance of similar adaptive phenomena may also be functionally linked to significant dietary alterations.morphine systemsfurthermore we surmise the endogenous morphine systems may play a key role in gut gut-brain and bacterial commu- nication.

the manifestation of acute andor chronic psychiatric conditions following antibiotic us- age may provide unique insights into key etiological factorsof major psychiatric syndromes that involve bidirectional com- munication between the microbiome and the brain 3539. interestingly one of the first descriptions of the use of antibi- otics in understanding cellular processes occurred in 1980 in prague 40. this apparently conserved interaction may sim- ply be based on two energy-rich requiring areas namely the brain and the gut metabolism 4142 balancing the same phe- nomenon.

this can be coupled to both pathological processes and healthy ones.in this review we chose to examine potential associated disorders that may be coupled to the microbiome from the perspective of their bidirectional communication with eukaryotic cells in the gut.

med sci monit 2006 1210 ra207-19kream rm sheehan m cadet p et al persistence of evolutionary memory primordial six-transmembrane helical domain mu opiate recep- tors selectively linked to endogenous morphine signaling.

med sci monit 2007 1312 sc5-6stefano gb goumon y casares f et al endogenous morphine.

med sci monit basic res 2016 22 75-79frye re slattery j macfabe df et al approaches to studying and manip- ulating the enteric microbiome to improve autism symptoms.

adv exp med biol 2014 817 373-403petra ai panagiotidou s hatziagelaki e et al gut-microbiota-brain axis and its effect on neuropsychiatric disorders with suspected immune dys- regulation.

med sci monit 2015 21 1478-84snodgrass rg boss m zezina e et al hypoxia potentiates palmitate-in- duced pro-inflammatory activation of primary human macrophages.

med sci monit 2015 21 3136-43jing l li q he l et al protective effect of tempol against hypoxia-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in h9c2 cells.

med sci monit basic res 2017 23 159-65samak m fatullayev j sabashnikov a et al cardiac hypertrophy an in- troduction to molecular and cellular basis.

