81038. doi to explore the effects of gastric non-h. pylori helicobacter speciesnhph on the structure and potential function of gastric microbiota we employed 16s rrna gene sequencing on 164 gastric biopsy specimens from nhph h. suis h. felis h. salomonish.

the results in this study implied that nhph can arouse the variation of structure and function of gastric microbiota which may pave the way to further research on the pathogenesis of gastric diseases.keywords non-pylori helicobacters nhphs gastric microbiota helicobacter pylori-infected coinfection 16s rrna gene sequencingintroductionprogress in sequencing technology and biological information analysis methods has enhanced our knowledge of gastrointestinal microbiota independent of traditional culture methods.

h. pylori as the most relevant inhabitant plays an important role in altering the gastric microenvironment by inhibiting acid secretion leading to an imbalance in hormones which might facilitate transient flora survival and colonization on the gastric epithelium with subsequent disruption of the established gastric microbiota  .

whether and how these nhph species' colonization of the gastric mucosa influences the structure of the gastric microbiota bacterial diversity and its possible functional metabolism should be further investigated.in this study we investigated the effects of nhph species h. suis h. felis or h. salomonis and h. pylori coinfection on microbiota of gastric mucosa specimens from individuals undergoing gastroduodenoscopy by applying 16s rrna gene deep sequencing.

the effects are highly species-specific the entire profile of the gastric microbiota is dependent on the type of gastric nhph species which may promote or attenuate variation in h. pylori-predominated gastric microbiota.

the investigation of the human gastric microbiota is still in its infancy and the roles and functions of other bacteria should be further elucidated.in addition to h. pylori other members of the genus helicobacter with typical spiral morphology non-pylori helicobacter nhph are also associated with a range of gastric disorders especially mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue malt lymphoma    .

recently a study concerning interactions between h. suis and gastric parietal cells determined that this bacterium can cause a series of side effects significant impairment of cell viability abnormal gastric acid secretion and disruption of stomach homeostasis  .

in addition we predicted gene functions and metabolic pathways among different groups and found the striking changes in metabolic pathways caused by nhph.materials and methodsstudy subjects and gastric specimen collectionfrom march 2014 to april 2015 a total of 1500 gastric biopsy specimens were collected from individuals undergoing gastroduodenoscopy at peking university third hospital.

pylori coupled with h. suis or h. felis had a remarkable effect on the profile of the gastric bacterial community.variations in predicted gastric microbiota function between theh.

simultaneously the effects of nhph species on the gastric microbiota were indirectly explained by comparing variations in gastric bacterial community structure between h. pylori monoinfection group and nhphh.

2016.analysis of gastric microbiota by pyrosequencing minor role of bacteria other than helicobacter pylori in the gastric carcinogenesis.

2015. prevalence of coinfection with gastric non-helicobacter pylori helicobacter nhph species in helicobacter pylori-infected patients suffering from gastric disease in beijing.

2016. comparison of gastric microbiota between gastric juice and mucosa by next generation sequencing method.

 1  liya zhou2  yanan gong1  zhiqiang song2  lihua he1  sanren lin2 and 11 state key laboratory of infectious disease prevention and control collaborative innovation center for diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases national institute for communicable disease control and prevention chinese center for disease control and prevention beijing china 2 department of gastroenterology peking university third hospital beijing chinaedited bydongsheng zhou beijing institute of microbiology and epidemiology chinareviewed byweihong wang peking university first hospital chinashengqi wang beijing institute of radiation medicinechinacorrespondence jianzhong zhang specialty sectionthis article was submitted toinfectious diseases a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 18 march 2017accepted 23 may 2017published 08 june 2017citation peng x zhou l gong y song z he l lin s and zhang j 2017 non-pylori helicobacters nhphs induce shifts in gastric microbiota in helicobacter pylori-infected patients.

the changes in bacterial structure induced by nhph are mainly attributed to their ability of gastric acid secretion inhibition as well as bacterial chemotaxis.

