dimethyl disulfide altered phenomena range from plant growth reduction isr reduced seed germination fungal discoloration mycelium growth reduction and also include contradictory results such as seedling and plant growth promotions table 1 2. a sim- ilar wide array of physiological parameters were addressed by 23-butanediol isr pr gene activation improved drought survival stomata closure and aperture affected and growth promotion and by 2-undecanone growth promotion salinity tolerance fungal mycelium growth promotion as well as inhibi- tion reduced sclerotia formation.

2016. regarding plants observations and results obtained from various experiments range from for example strong growth inhibitions to significant growth promotions.

chlamydosporia p. lilacinus spore growth inhibition 2-4 g l-1 mycelium growth inhibition 53-67 g l-1p.

chlamydosporia p. lilacinus spore growth inhibition 20-21 g l-1 mycelium growth inhibition 32-44 g l-1zou et al.

chlamydosporia p. lilacinus spore growth inhibition 7-9 g l-1 mycelium growth inhibition 21-33 g l-1zou et al.

moreover several mvoc compound classes have dual functions and cause growth promotion and growth reduction at certain experimental conditions table 2.first steps elucidating the potential effects of discrete bioac- tive mvocs were performed however more detailed and spe- cific experiments are needed to unravel the respective targets and cellular and molecular reactions.

1913 clawson and young 1913 and others investigations reporting on volatile-mediated interac- tions between plants and bacteria often did not consider thetable 2. correlation of effects in plants and fungi with mvoc compound classes organismschemical classesgrowthbiomassgrowthseed germinationgrowthaltered root morphologygrowth defence responseinduced systemic resistancephytopathogenic fungisa ja et dependent signalling pr genes primingrosethylene production stress enzymesmamp dependent response post-harvest effectsphysiologyphotosynthesisaltered stomata closureaperture salinity tolerancedrought survivalauxin dependent gene expressionfunghimycel growth spore germination spore growthsclerotinia formationdiscolorationfungal growth dna alkylation increase  decrease  altered phenotype ros reactive oxygen species pr pathogen related sa salicylic acid ja jasmonic acid et ethylene dep dependent.discrete bioactive mvocs 2055figure 2. overview of effects in plants and fungi due to distinct microbial volatiles.

2016 for instance explored the potential influence of co2 on plant growth promotion by comparing sealed system with non-sealed systems and observed no difference in plant growth.

2016continuesdiscrete bioactive mvocs 2059determine the extent of incorporation of bacterial co2 in plant growth in co-cultivations two lines of experiments can be per- formed i tracing isotope labelled co2 of bacteria in plants and ii online monitoring of co2 levels in respective growth containers.

in con- trast ammonia as main volatile degradation product of decomposing plant tissue increased the mycelial growth of rhizoctonia solani strains by supplying an additional nitrogen source and inducing melanization by raising the medium ph lewis 1976. besides these effects ammonia was also described to influence bacterial growth.

2014. thus it is also conceivable that bacterial h2s indirectly promotes plant growth by antagonizing fungal phytopathogens.nitric oxidenitric oxide no is a nitrogen-containing gaseous lipophilic highly stable free radical half-life from seconds to minutes that can thus freely and easily diffuse over several cell layers or longer distances stohr and ullrich 2002. these characteris- tics enable no as perfect signalling molecule in plants but also bacteria and animals stohr and ullrich 2002. in plants via metal nitrosylation s-nitrosylation and tyrosine nitration no influences physiological key processes including growth and development seed dormancygermination photosynthesis flowering and stomatal movement see reviews besson-bard et al.

2013.although a broad range of bacteria can produce no via ni- trification denitrification firestone and davidson 1989 and nitric oxide synthesis using arginine as the substrate chen and rosazza 1994 research concerning the direct or indirect impact of bacterial no on plant growth and development is still in its infancy table 3. one example is the plant growth pro- moting bacteria azospirillum brasilense which modulates lat- eral and adventitious root formation of tomato through no emission molina-favero et al.

plymuthica 4rx13 did not emit no during growth suggesting that volatile-mediated effects of s. plymuthica 4rx13 on plant growth were not based on no emission kai et al.

so far 94 discrete organic and five inorganic compounds were investigated most of them trigger alterations of the growth physiology and defence responses in plants and fungi but little is known about the specific molecular and cellular targets.

only one example of a defined mixture of four ketones was successfully applied which affected the growth of the phytopathogenic fungi rhizoctonia solani table 1. the most frequently mvoc producers investigated are bacteria such as pseudomonas sp.

