Closeness centrality on the other hand measures how distant the node is from all other nodes in the network whereby high scores indicate a small distance toward the rest of the network members.TABLE 3  Linear mixed model results of alpha diversity across all fecal sampling time points based on species richness observed number of species abundance distribution Shannon H and phylogenetic community structure NRINTI.Time point- time coded as order of observation 0-3  Time span coded as time in weeks 0 2 4 10  fitted as second order polynomial.When we compare the networks between single time points patterns resembling community succession and stabilization emerge  for species networks see Supplememtary Figure S8A.

The transitivityclustering of the networks deteriorates muchquicker under targeted removal compared to random removal throughout the time course Supplementary Figures S11EF as does network diametersize Supplementary Figures S11CD and closeness centrality increase of distance between nodes Supplementary Figures S11GH.

Interestingly the co-occurrence network derived from the last time point appears more resilient than any of the simulated network topologies tested Supplementary Figure S12.To investigate the influence of the Fut2 genotype secretorstatus and breeding direction on the robustness of microbialcommunities we adapted the heuristics described above and sequentially removed the top 25 of genera and species associated to the respective host factors as measured by their respective indicator values   from the network.

Several taxa appear to have common large effects on most network parameters diameter size of biggest cluster transitivity closeness over more than a single time point such as Alistipes OTU-36 Rikenella OTU-9 and Paludibacter OTU-120 in species networks or Alistipes Enterorhabdus Lachnospiraceae Parasutterella and Ruminococcus in the genus-level networks Supplementary Tables S11 S12.

The PageRankTM as a generalized importance index reveals an increase of importance with time in genera networks r 0.148 P 2.21 10-6  a pattern also present within species networks r 0.127 P 2.31 10-16 Supplementary Figure S8B.

The average mediator role of bacterial genera and species does not significantly change over time genera betweenness r 0.0879 P 0.0876 species betweenness r 0.0035 P 0.8228 and the relative distance of links between community members increases with time due to reduced connectedness r -0.7643 P  2.20 10-16 see  while distances among species decrease over time r 0.1692 P  2.20 10-16 Supplementary Figure S8B.

We identified the most influential bacteria on network stability by the average real values of relative change in network characteristics after removal diameter number of network clusters size of network clusters transitivity closeness.

We next measured different bacterial network characteristics importancecentrality of network components to approximate the structural importance of the single bacterial taxa within each respective network including the number of interactions of each bacterium in the network node degree the PageRankTM index     and the well-known betweenness- and closeness centralities .

The family rikenellaceae in The Prokaryotes Other Major Lineages of Bacteria and The Archaea eds E. Rosenberg E. F. Delong S. Lory E. Stackebrandt and F. Thompson Berlin Springer 857-859.Hardham J. M. King K. W. Dreier K. Wong J. Strietzel C. Eversole R. R. et al.

The decay of the networks into smaller components is plotted as the mean decay over 1000 permutations of node removal see Supplementary Figure S10 for additional network characteristics.

