letters to the editorjpgn  volume 65 number 1 july 2017apropos ''gut microbiota differences in children from distinct socioeconomic levels living in the same urban area in brazil''o the editor the study authored by mello et al 1 introduces a novel insight by comparing the human gut microbial composition in children living in the same geographic area stra- tified by socioeconomic status.

j pediatr gastroenterol nutr 201663460-5.microbiota environment and dieto the editor we are grateful for the interest in our article regarding the intestinal microbiota of children living in different environmental conditions 1. other studies have com- pared the intestinal microbiota among children in different countries 2 - 4. our study however takes a novel and uniqueapproach where the groups compared are residents of the same city.

gut microbiota differences in children from distinct socioeconomic levels living in the same urban area in brazil.

gut microbiota differences in children from distinct socioeconomic levels living in the same urban area in brazil.

the intestinal microbial composition of children living in a favela near a sanitary landfill differ significantly from that of children of high socioeconomic status having adequate hygienic- sanitary conditions.

impact of diet in shaping gut microbiota revealed by a comparative study in children from europe and rural africa.

distinct distal gut microbiome diversity and composition in healthy children from bangladesh and the united states.

distinct gut microbiota in southeastern african and northern european infants.

phenylketonuria and gut microbiota a controlled study based on next generation sequen- cing.

mello et al discussed the location of the perceived ''slum'' and presented example pictures of the area however detailed criteria to what constituted as a ''slum'' are missing and lead readers to believe slums were identified subjec- tively.

mello cs carmo-rodrigues ms filho hba et al.

the term ''slum'' has no universal definition 56. according to the state of the world's cities report 2006 2007 7 ''a slum household is a group of individuals living under the same roof in an urban area who lack 1 of the following 5 conditions durable housing sufficient living area access to improved water access to sanitation and secure tenure.''

we are currently analyzing possible correlations between our collected dietary data and the intestinal microbiota.mauro batista de morais ycarolina santos mello zmirian silva carmo-rodrigues zhumberto bezerra arau'jo filho zl'igia cristina fonseca lahoz mellisoraia tahan and ssantonio carlos campos pignataridepartment of pediatricsfederal university of sao paulosao paulo spyschool of nutrition federal university of alagoasmaceio' alagoaszuniversity center fieo osascossdepartment of medicine federal university of sao paulosao pauloreferencesmello cs carmo-rodrigues ms filho hba et al.

j pediatr gastroenterol nutr 201663 460-465.grzeskowiak l collado mc mangani c et al.

j pediatr gastro- enterol nutr 201254812-6.de fillipo c cavalieri d di paola m et al.

