even more important the finding that antibiotics also have prophylactic benefits in animal hus- bandry led to their massive global use in food animal rearing including aquaculture.11 this practice has now contaminated the planet with a class of highly active compounds that inexorably convert our wonderful antibi- otic sensitive friends which carry out so many diverse tasks important to humankind to drug resistance and from which our microbial enemies - the pathogens - acquire their resistance.

editorialdoi10.11111751-7915.12738microbiome yarns microbial forensics for auditing provenance in global food chains1234kenneth timmis franziska jebok and romilio t. espejoinstitute of microbiology technical university braunschweig braunschweig germany.institute for educational science university of freiburgfreiburg germany.instituto de nutricio'n y tecnolog'ia de los alimentos inta universidad de chile santiago chile.the microbiome channel studio 7a bbz plaza bur- bank 7.30 pm abigail repor-tastory discovery presen- ter turns to face the camera good evening and welcome to a new episode of 'microbiome discoveries that change our lives'.

previously antibiotic resistance was a natural feature of a few bugsso the connection with your shrimp-mayo wrap is as fol- lows shrimp harvested from pristine waters containing little or no antibiotics may contain a few pathogens and or trace amounts of algal toxins but are not generally hazardous.

however shrimp from some aquaculture oper- ations that use antibiotics as growth promoters may con- tain pathogens some of which may be drug resistant and hence difficult to treat.ms.

repor-tastory so how can we know whether the shrimp comes from pristine or contaminated environ- ments is the fishmonger-supermarket-restaurant able to tell usdr.

repor-tastory well that is wonderful so how many different microbes make up this shrimp signaturedr.

this article is a figment of theauthors' imagination any serious contemplation may unnecessarily perturb the reader's mental harmony.3 any possible resemblance of the fictional charactersand organisations in this fable to a real person organisa- tion or enterprise is coincidental and unintentional.4 dedicated to the memory of joseph alouf an out-standing personable urbane scholar-gourmet who con- tributed much to bacterial toxin research6 to the pioneers of antibiotic resistance research its spread the importance of aquaculture practices in this regard and its massive compromising of infection therapy especially stuart levy and felipe cabello and to the pioneers of seafood-transmitted infections especially rita colwell romilio espejo and james oliver.5 youngest daughter of the renowned dr. noitall seee.g.

1982. microbial resistance to antibiotics.

so even with best practice hygiene measures of han- dling our little shellfish friends on the table can bite back.editorial679moreover seafood produced in aquaculture facilities may additionally have rather high levels of toxic metalsmetal- loids like cadmium and arsenic or be contaminated by human or animal waste that can contain other microbial and viral pathogens.

previously there were no adequate procedures for determining the provenance of seafood but now dr. jackbert and his colleagues seem to be on the way to solving the problem.i met gilly recently at a meeting on food safety in dublin and he told me that the microbial flora of the digestive tract of the shrimp - you know the black vein you see when you remove the shell also called the poo thread which some people remove but others consider to be an essential component of the authentic flavour experience- constitutes a signature that is unique to each aquacul- ture operation.

while determining the complete microbial signature of a shrimp is a bit time-consuming and expen- sive gilly's group has identified certain key microbes responsible for most of the signature uniqueness and have used this to develop a rapid relatively inexpensive screening procedure.ms.

the race is on to determine microbial provenance signatures for all manner of globally traded foods which will repre- sent an exquisitely sensitive new type of food forensics similar to the recently developed human microbiome forensics12 that can be applied at all parts of the supply chain.

noitall-most of course ali at least in terms of treatability of any infection with explosive consequences it may gift you.explanatory notes for online version at 1 to view previous issues of microbiome discoveries that change our lives go to www.theabsurdmicrobedisc overiesoldstuff or see timmis k. and timmis j. k. 2017. microbiomes metabolic errors and detection of perfor- mance enhancing drug abuse.

repor-tastory ani this evening we want to discuss a new development that addresses a very scary contem- porary problem we are all faced with namely food safety in the global economy.this is especially true with regard to hazards like con- tamination with toxic chemicals and biochemicals and infectious agents.

repor-tastory okay ani so what kind of problems are we talking aboutdr.

