snow algae are actively fixing carbon in these ecosystems as demonstrated by net ecosystem production measurements.the potential for labile organic carbon production in snow is reflected in bacterial abundance and production rates that were found to be higher in red snow containing algae compared to white snow with low snow algal numbers.this suggests that snow algaepublished in partnership with nanyang technological universitynpj biofilms and microbiomes 201710microbiome of glaciers and ice sheetsam anesio et al.4are an important source of organic matter.

the red snow sometimes also termed ''watermelon snow'' phenomenon has been known for a long time and has already been described by the ancient greek aristotle.yet only in the 19th century the development of microscopy allowed scientists to link red snow to biological processes namely snow algae blooms and this work led to the naming of the taxon chlamydomonas nivalis by wille.since then a large number of snow algal taxa have been described and wrongly classified as chlamydomonas nivalis.

studies of fungi in snow and ice are rare and mostly limited to snow molds which are not active in the snow itself but attack dormant plants under the snow cover.

the significance of microbial activity in englacial and subglacial systems is still largely unknown b white snow at the beginning of the melt season c d green snow with its dominant main primary producer chlamydomonadales collected from a svalbard glacier e f red snow with its dominant main primary producer chlamydomonadales collected from a svalbard glacier g h dirty ice with one of its dominant main primary producer a zygnematales i j an example of a cryoconite hole in the gris and one of its main primary producers phormidesmis priestleyiastaxanthin.

in contrast green snow can be both a transient stage caused by the still chlorophyll-rich trophic stages of the latter red snow taxa or an independent phenomenon caused by the genera microglenaor raphidonema.however raphi- donema sempervirens and r. nivale trebouxiophyceae are typical permafrost algae and not true snow algal taxa.

because the availability of liquid water is one of the key drivers for snow algal growth as a consequence of global warming the frequency of extreme melt events will increase and likely intensify the distribution and duration of snow algal blooms and in turn melt rates.algae on ice surfacesless striking to the observer's eye compared to the red snow phenomenon but probably even more important on ice surfaces are ice algal blooms figs a-c and g-h. together with anthropogenic black carbon and mineral debris inputs they impart glacial surfaces a brownish-greyish colouration that is often mistaken for ''dirt''.

e f due to the presence of snow algae.likewise the ice surface can contain only very few impurities and be perfectly white or be characterised by the presence of large amounts of organic and inorganic impurities that also darken its surfacefigs a-c and g-h. any such impurities regardless if biological or inorganic in nature which in turn can be both allochthonously delivered or autochthonously grownrecycled on site provide nutrients for the growth of snow mainly dominated by chlamydomonadales and ice algae mainly dominated by zygnematales and heterotrophic bacteria.

their primary producers and how the organic matter produced and accumulated by them can modify their physical and chemical environment.algae in snowsnow algae are a group of unicellular freshwater algae mainlychlorophyceae that thrive in glacial snow and permanent snowfields figs b and a-f. snow algae taxa have been described in a plethora of polar and alpine settings e.g.

finally less often described and probably less abundant is yellow snow caused by hydrurus related chrysophyceae.the parameters controlling snow algal distribution are far from being well understood.

similarly brown et al.found a co-occurrence of snow algae and fungi but no studies have been conducted to investigate the nature of their interaction.true snow algae are psychrophiles with a temperature optimum below 15 degc maximum temperature around 20 degc and the preferred growth temperature around 0 degc.

many cryophilic adaptation strategies can only be found in truly psychrophilic snow algaeand these are of wide interest for biotechnological application.a large number of cultured snow algal strain is available from cccryo culture collection of cryophilic algae  which serves as a valuable bioresource for laboratory experiments e.g.

the closest related genome available is that of the well-studied mesophile chlamydomonas reinhardtii which however does not share the cryophilic properties.important in a global context is the fact that pigmented snow algal blooms together with the ice algae blooms--described below decrease the albedo of snow and ice surfaces which in turn may speed up melting processes.

only recently have chytridiomycota been described as abundant in alpine and arctic snow  where they are believed to play important roles in nutrient release through their saprotrophic or parasitic activities and in snow food-web dynamics.

lack of molecular data and the restrictions of the morphological classification applied to identify the eukaryotic algae on ice and snow could also impact the conclusion that these organisms seem to have a cosmopolitan distribution.at the genus level and most often at the species level snow and ice algal taxa occur in the arctic antarctic and the alps.

in 57th eastern snow conference syracuse new york usa 2000.muller t. bleiss w. martin c.-d. rogaschewski s.  fuhr g. snow algae from northwest svalbard their identification distribution pigment and nutrient content.

