ngm3 n11 samples showed depletion of bifidobacteria lactobacillus faecalibacterium and akkermansia and an increased relative risk of multisensitised atopy at age 2 years and parental-reported doctor-diagnosed asthma at age 4 years.

although the relative risk for multi-sensitized atopy was higher in neonates identified as ngm3 infants identified as ngm1 13 out of 70 and ngm2 13 out of 49 still developed the condition and a significant proportion of those identified as ngm3 did not develop disease 511. comparing atopy based on non-specific ige levels 0.35 iuml also showed no association with ngm state.

a separate study analyzing the fecal microbiota of children aged 3 months found similar depletion of bacterial taxa to be associated with atopy 6 and bacterial depletion by early-life antibiotic treatment has been associated with allergic asthma developmenthepatobiliary surgery and nutrition vol 6 no 3 june 2017191abfigure 1 summary of features of early life microbiota reported by fujimura et al.

furthermore loss of these taxa has been observed in other immune-mediated conditions raising the question as to whether there are beneficial features about our relationship with these microbes that translate across diseases 78. at 6 months of age the infant microbiome no longer fitted to these three states but rather fitted two that did not associate with multi sensitized atopy.

neonatal gut microbiota associates with childhood multisensitized atopy and t cell differentiation.

one of these conformations was significantly associated with higher risk of developing atopy an allergic hypersensitization predisposing individuals to asthma 4 but was only detectable in children under 6 months of age.

studied a cohort of 298 children whose fecal bacterial and fungal communities were analyzed at one month of age n130 termed neonates andor at six months of age n168 termed infants.

speaking in broad terms this represents a transition from a state dominated by bifidobacteriaceae and enterobacteriaceae families in the neonate towards one including larger proportions of bacteroidiaceae and lachnospiraceae in the infant and a contraction of malasseziales within the neonatal fungal community leaving the infant community dominated by saccharomycetales figure 1. between individual children the bacterial and fungal communities became increasingly different to each other with age indicative of the establishment of a diverse community which is to large degree specific to individuals.to identify signatures associated with atopy fujimura et al.

given the instability of the microbiome in early life it's possible that a single time-point may not reflect significant periods in which the microbiome may fluctuate in different states.

neonatal gut microbiota and atopywith the microbiome during this period thus better understanding early life dynamics is critical 2. it is also possible that there is functional redundancy between species so that community states appearing distinct on a taxonomic level display more similarity when analyzed on a functional level.

highlights that analyzing the composition of the microbiome in the neonatal period could be critical to identifying associations with multi sensitized atopy.

neonatal gut microbiota associates with childhood multisensitized atopy and t cell differentiation.

human gut microbiome viewed across age and geography.

 editorial on nutritionwindow-of-opportunity neonatal gut microbiota and atopyandrew m. f. johnson r. william depaolodivision of gastroenterology department of medicine university of washington seattle wa usacorrespondence to r. william depaolo.

nat med 2016221187-91.submitted jan 21 2017. accepted for publication feb 21 2017.doi 10.21037hbsn.2017.03.05view this article at the microorganisms within the gastrointestinal tract have received considerable attention in recent years as new tools and faster less expensive genomics approaches have allowed for associations between microbial behavior and disease 1. colonization of our gi tract occurs at birth and remains unstable until approximately 3 years of age a stage of life during which time major physiological systems such as the immune system also develop 2. longitudinal tracking studies have suggested that this early period is critical in predisposing us to conditions such as asthma 23. by profiling the microbial community using 16s rrna gene sequencing fujimura et al.

