about 60-70 of patients on long-term nsaids develop mucosal damage2-4 including an increase in intestinal permeability intestinal inflammation erosions and protein loss but also more serious complications such as anemia bleeding ulcers perforations obstruction diverticulitis ileal dysfunction and diaphragm-like strictures5-7 table 1. it is estimated that about one third of all complications associated with the use of nsaids is represented by severe injuries of the small bowel8.

according to some animal models the nsaids especially indomethacin are rapidly excreted via the bile and then enter the enterohepatic circulationthe intestinal micro-organisms and their degradation products are necessary for the development of nsaids enteropathy as ''germ-free'' animals were found to be resistant to indomethacin injuries1459.

this mechanism of unbalanced increase of gram- negative bacteria in nsaid users has not as yet been elucidated however it seems that the bacteria might easily penetrate into the mucosa when mucosal permeability is enhanced by nsaids65.recently more importance has been placed on the co-administration of nsaids and the inhibitors of gastric acid secretion such as proton pump inhibitors and histamine h2 receptor antagonists in determining a significant alteration of intestinal microbiota composition and exacerbating nsaids enteropathy2166.

for this reason it would be reasonable that patients with a particular susceptibility to oxidative stress such as those with metabolic syndrome obesity diabetesthere is growing evidence that an alterated interaction between gut microbiota and the host at the intestinal mucosa level determine an impairment of gut-liver axis and contribute to a state of low-grade inflammation endotoxemia obesity and metabolic liver disordersnafld and insulin resistance and altered metabolism of fatty acids avoided agents such as alcohol and nsaids that increase intestinal permeability.liver direct effects of nsaidslike nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis nash70-72.

therefore it could be reasonable to assume that therapeutic strategies that aim to restore the intestinal microbiota firstly with dietary interventions antibiotics and probiotics could be sound practice.intestinal barrier represents the initial damage of nsaids enteropathy leading to an endotoxaemia due to the translocation of bacteria and toxic substances of intestinal origin in the portal circulation.

this alteration of gut microbiota may contribute to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and its related disorders in two ways firstly causing a malfunction of the tight junctions that play a critical role in the increase of intestinal permeability and then secondly leading to the development of insulin resistance body weight gain lipogenesis fibrogenesis and hepatic oxidative stress.key words non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs intestinal barrier intestinal permeability non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs - enteropathy nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nonalcoholic steatohepatitis microbiota metabolic syndrome proton pump inhibitors endotoxaemiac the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.utzeri e et al .

science 2010 330 831-835 pmid 21051639 doi 10.1126science.1191175lanas a scarpignato c. microbial flora in nsaid-induced intestinal damage a role for antibiotics digestion 2006 73 suppl 1 136-150 pmid 16498262 doi 10.1159000089789zwolinska-wcislo m krzysiek-maczka g ptak-belowska a karczewska e pajdo r sliwowski z urbanczyk k drozdowicz d konturek sj pawlik ww brzozowski t. antibiotic treatment with ampicillin accelerates the healing of colonic damage impaired by aspirin and coxib in the experimental colitis.

unlike traditional nsaids selective cox-2 nsaids results in lower adverse gastrointestinal effects19 even if this beneficial effect may be lost with long-term use14.utzeri e et al .

nsaids and nafldhepatocyte5-oh-dcf4'-oh-dcfdcftauro-dcf1 abcb11 bsep dcf-ag5-oh-dcf-g4'-oh-dcf-gbile canaliculus2 abcc2 mrp2 abcg2 bcrp1bile ductaglyconesdistal jejunum ileumelectrophile stress mito stresser stressenteric microbiomebacterialb-glucuronidase dcf glucuronidesenterocyte b-glucuronidase iso-glucuronidescarboxylesterase ice figure 1 enterohepatic circulation of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs21.mechanisms of jejunal and ileal mucosal damage topical effects multi - hit concept the mecha- nisms underlying nsaids enteropathy are primarily represented by the so-called topical effects i.e.

the topical effects are by definition independent from the impact of nsaids on cox21.from a pharmacokinetic point of view nsaids are weak acids pka 3-6 which are protonated and then absorbed in the stomach according to their lipophilicity2223.

nsaids enteropathy is due to enterohepatic recycling of the drugs resulting in a prolonged and repeated exposure of the intestinal mucosa to the compound and its metabolites.

nsaids and nafldutzeri e usai p. role of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on intestinal permeability and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

recent data has shown that the incidence of complications of the lower gastrointestinal tract many of these due to the use of nsaids and asa is on the rise while the incidence of upper gastrointestinal lesions is declining15.at the core of this broad spectrum of lesionsthere is a multifactorial pathogenesis with structural and functional alterations of different components which make up the intestinal barrier.

those adverse effects coming from the high local concentration of nsaids in the intestinal lumen20 and their enterohepatic circulation.

the reduction of mitochondrial atp production causes a loss of the intestinal barrier function and this can be tested quantitatively by the oral administration of dextran45.oxidative stress there is only indirect evidence of its involvement in nsaids enteropathy.

