by contrast mice that were treated with dss exhibited serious injuries with the loss of histological structure and a strong epithelial disintegration disruption of the epithelial barrier a pronounced decrease in a number of crypts and marked infiltration of granulocytes and mononuclear cells into the mucosa and submucosa figure a. cha reduced the extent and the severity of the macroscopic and histological signs of colon injuries figure a. the depletion of mucin production was observed in dss-induced colitis and cha supplementation could attenuate this effect figure b.figure 2.the effects of cha on the histopathological characterization in dss-colitis mice.representative he-stained sections of the distal colonic tissues from the control dss and dss cha group b representative alcian blue-stained sections of these different groups.

taxonomic bins at the phylum level showed that the dss-treated mice treated with dss showed a trend to harbor higher proportions of firmicutes and lower proportion of bacteroidetes figure b. cha significantly decreased the proportions of firmicutes and bacteroidetes and increased the proportions of verrucomicrobia in dss-treated mice figure bc.figure 4. the effects of cha on colonic infiltration of inflammatory cells and nf-kb signaling in dss-colitis mice.

a comparison of the relative abundance of akkermansia in fecal samples of dss colitis mice analyzed by 16s rrna gene sequencing b a comparison of the relative abundance of akkermansia in fecal samples of normal mice that were treated with cha.

thus it will be helpful to explore the effect of cha on fecal microbiota in dss-induced colitis to elucidate its anti-inflammatory activity.the objective of the present study was to demonstrate the anti-inflammatory effect of cha on dss-induced acute colitis induced by dss in c57bl6 mice by macroscopic and histological methods.

a significant reduction in fecal microbiota diversity was observed in dss treated mice compared to mice that were fed a standard diet and cha treatment significantly enhanced this effect figure a. in addition dss treatment significantly decreased fecal microbiota richness.

cha treatment significantly improved the colon length versus the dss group figure c. it suggested that cha could significantly promote the recovery from the colitis.figure 1. the effects of chlorogenic acid cha on the disease activity index dai in dextran sulfate sodium dss colitis mice.

the aim of this study was to characterize the effects of cha on dss-induced experimental colitis mainly focusing on the composition of the fecal microbiota and colonic inflammation in mice with dss-induced colitis.in this study 1 mm cha was ministered to dss-colitis mice.

thus cha had an anti-inflammatory effect in the colonic mucosa in colitis mice possibly through suppressing the proinflammatory cytokine secretion.the accumulating data showed that the composition and diversity of the microbiota are altered in ibd patients or in dss-treated mice .

cha acted as the intestine-modifying gut microbial community structure resulting in a lower intestinal and systemic inflammation and also improving the course of the dss-induced colitis which is associated with a proportional increase in akkermansia.keywords chlorogenic acid colitis inflammation gut microbiota akkermansiaintroductionulcerative colitis uc is one of the most common chronic inflammatory bowel diseases ibd of unknown etiology .

moreover the effect of cha on gut microbiota of mice that were treated with dss was also studied.materials and methodsanimal treatmentfemale c57bl6 mice 18-20 shanghai slac laboratory animal co. ltd. shanghai china.

p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001 compared with the control group p  0.05  p  0.01 compared with the dss group.the effects of cha on akkermansiacha treatment significantly increased the relative abundance of akkermansia which belonged to verrucomicrobia in dss-treated mice figure a. to confirm this effect the relative abundanceof akkermansia was detected in normal mice that were treated with cha.

colitis was induced by 2.5 dextran sulfate sodium dss in c57bl6 mice which were on a control diet or diet with cha 1 mm.

a p-value of less than 0.05 was considered significant.resultsdietary cha improves the disease activity index dai of dss-colitis micefour days after colitis was induced by dss treatment all the mice showed apparent diarrhea and rectal bleeding.

we demonstrated a protection against colitis that was induced by dss in mice with cha treatment exhibiting improved weight loss and dai scores.

cha treatment could increase the abundance of bacterial populations of verrucomicrobia figure b.figure 6. bacterial a-diversity comparison and heatmap of the relative bacterial species abundance.a the shannon and simpson indices were used to estimate diversity at a 97 similarity level of the fecal microbiota in mice b heatmap indicating genus-level changes among controls dss and dss cha groups.

