in this approach while the biological delivery vehicle is not confined to tumours tnfa production is restricted via physically targeted radiation induction of the egr-1 promoter to express the tnfa transgene.bacteria represent another class of cancer gene therapy vector that have an established safety profile and track record of facilitating protein production within tumours  .

in vitro cytotoxicity assays with the various cell lines in the presence of tnfa indicated signifi- cant sensitivity to tnfa with all cell lines examined ed50 ct26-37 ngml renca 50 ngml tramp 64 ngml .in order to qualitatively assess tumour targeting and proliferation of mg-tnfa bacteria were administered to balbc mice bearing ct26 tumours i.v.

elisa analysis of tumour homogenates demonstrated significantly higher tnfa levels within tumours of mg-tnfa treated mice compared with controls mice i.v.

in the tramp prostatic tumour model tumour growth was signifi- cantly reduced in mg-tnfa treated mice versus controls p  0.05 p  0.01 but apparent increase in median survival was not significant compared with mg-empty p  0.05. median survival of mice bearing ct26 tumours treated with mg- tnfa was significantly increased vs. mg-empty p  0.049 although the apparent reduction in tumour volume was not significant vs. controls p 0.05. significant reduction in tumour volume was observed at certain time- points in the renca renal tumour model p  0.01 with no significant increase in survival p  0.05 in this rapid growing model.

persistent bioluminescence signal was observed for 9 days indicat- ing bacterial survival and growth in tumours .engineered e. coli facilitates tnfa production within tumoursa tnfa -expressing mg was designed and generated as described in materials  methods and .

mg was administered to balbc mice bearing renca tumours i.t or ct26 tumours i.v.

a pattern of pro-inflammatory cytokine induc- tion was observed in tumours of mg-tnfa treated mice vs. controls .in vivo therapy of prostate colon and renal carcinomamice bearing subcutaneous flank tumours trampc1 ct26 and renca were administered pbs mg-empty or mg-tnfa i.t tramp renca or i.v.

mice remained healthy throughout experiments as evi- denced by a disease activity index   which was constructed by frequent monitor- ing of behaviour and appearance.discussionto our knowledge this is the first in vivo study that demonstrates tnfa delivery by bacteria to experimental murine tumours.

balbc mice bearing s.c. ct26 flank tumours n  6 received 106 cfu ofmg-tnfa i.v.. growth of bacteria in tumours was analysed by a bli and b immunofluorescence if while c plating of tumour extracts on agar plates quantified viable bacteria.

mice n  6 bearing ct26 tumours were injected with 106 bacteria to the lateral tail vein and all mice monitored at each time point over the course of time right.

research articleintratumoural production of tnfa by bacteria mediates cancer therapycarola murphy1 elizabeth rettedal1 panos lehouritis1 ciara'n devoy12 mark tangney1231 cork cancer research centre university college cork cork ireland 2 synbiocentre university college cork cork ireland 3 apc microbiome institute university college cork cork ireland abstractsystemic administration of the highly potent anticancer therapeutic tumour necrosis factor alpha tnfa induces high levels of toxicity and is responsible for serious side effects.

bacteria have a natural capacity to grow within tumours and deliver therapeuticopen accesscitation murphy c rettedal e lehouritis p devoy c tangney m 2017 intratumoural production of tnfa by bacteria mediates cancer therapy.

the non-pathogenic e. coli strain mg1655 was investi- gated as a tumour targeting system in order to produce tnfa specifically within murine tumours.

tnfa was identified in 1975 when it was discovered that a sub- stance from the sera of animals that were challenged with bcg and endotoxin could kill mouse cells in vitro and induce haemorrhagic necrosis of transplantable mouse tumours in vivo .

the pri- mary factors believed to be responsible for tumour-selective survival and replication involve tissue traits unique to tumours irregular leaky vasculature permits bacterial entry to tissue local immune suppression allows the bacteria to 'hide' from the immune system tumour cell necrosis provides a rich nutrient supply and anaerobicfacultative-anaerobic bacteria grow well in the hypoxic tissue unique to tumours.

