however from the chromatograms it can be concluded that all three ferulic acid oligosaccharides were completely hydrolyzed by each enzyme.although the tested substrates confirmed that each of the two enzymes can liberate ferulic acid from variously substituted side chains ferulic acid oligo- saccharides with a higher molecular weight were not analyzed in this approach.

relative activities of the two b. intestinalis feruloyl esterases bifae1a and bifae1b in 0.1 mops buffer ph 7.5 at different temperatures upper part and relative activities of the two enzymes in 0.1 mops buffer with different ph values at 37 degc lower part.table 1. kinetic properties of bifae1a and bifae1b withpnp-acetate and methyl-ferulatesubstrateprotein km mm kcat s-1 kcatkm mm s-1bifae1apnp-acetate1.42617.011.9methyl ferulate0.05216.8321.9bifae1bslightly higher affinity to methyl-ferulate compared with pnp-acetate km values of 353 and 434 mm respec- tively and with the kcat values also being about a third of those for bifae1a this enzyme exhibited low catalytic efficiencies for the two substrates.hydrolysis of different feruloylated substratesin arabinoxylans or enzymatically liberated arabi- noxylan oligosaccharides ferulic acid is ester bound to position o5 of the arabinose side chains.

it is possible that the likely structural differences in the active sites of bifae1a and bifae1b equip the cell with the ability to remove ferulic acid or other hydroxycinnamic acids from a variety of substrates.because the two enzymes hydrolyze a variety of feruloylated arabinoxylan oligosaccharides it is likely that they are also able to liberate ferulic acid from polysaccharides.

the incubation with bifae1a and bifae1b led to the complete disappearance of all peaks associated with ferulic acid oligosaccharides as well as the liberation of ferulic acid.

as suggested from the amce1 structure the relatively closed nature of the bifae1a active site compared with ferulic acid esterases such as the c. thermocellum faexynz that lack a loop or b-clamp motif around the active site supports our reported exolytic activity demonstrating cleavage of individual ferulic acid moieties from arabinoxylan oligosaccharides.because we did not obtain a crystal structure for the bifae1b enzyme we aligned the sequence of this enzyme with its closest homolog in the pdb in order to highlight potential differences from bifae1a.

individual sequence alignments of these domains with faexynz were performed and identified one region in each bifae1b domain that has additional sequence compared with faexynz a and b. in bifae1b domain a 10 extra residues are accommodated near the region of the flexible loop in bifae1a or the b-clamp of amce1 although this sequence is not conserved among the proteins c insertion domain a. in bifae1b domain b five extra residues after b-strand 4 may shape one side of the active site cleft c insertion domain b. these insertions may restrict the size of ferulic acid conjugates that fit the active site such that only exolytic activity is supported as with bifae1a and as observed in our activity assays.discussionarabinoxylans are the quantitatively dominating hemicelluloses in monocotyledonous plant cell walls.

between these two enzymes there are three ab catalytic domains as bifae1b comprises two tandem ferulic acid esterases.

the flow rate was 0.5 mlmin and the following gradient composed of a water with 0.1 formic acid and b acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid was used at 45 degc 0-20 min isocratic 85 a and 15 b 20-35 min linear to 100 b 35-40 min isocratic 100 b and 40-45 min isocratic 85 a and 15 b. uv detection was carried out at 325 nm and a standard curve was used to determine the ferulic acid content of the hydrolysates.optimum ph and optimum temperaturethe optimum ph was determined by incubating the enzymes 50 nm with pnp-acetate 250 mm at 37 degc in 0.1 m mops buffer with different ph values 6.5 7.0 7.25 7.5 7.75 8.0. for optimum temper- ature assays the enzymes 50 nm were incubated with pnp-acetate 250 mm in 0.1 m mops buffer ph 7.5 at different temperatures 25 30 35 37 4045 50 55 60 degc.

as ferulic acid is usually bound to complex polysaccharides the ability of the enzymes to liberate ferulic acid from a natural polymeric substrate was tested.

insoluble wheat arabinoxylan 1 was incubated for 2 h at 37 degc with increasing concentrations of bifae1a and bifae1b and ferulic acid concentrations were determined by hplc-dad.the polypeptides migrated to the corresponding calculated molecular masses bifae1a 33.2 kda bifae1b 71.1 kda.

for both enzymes a higher enzyme concentration did not lead to a higher amount of liberated ferulic acid most likely due to saturation of the substrate with enzyme.the optimum temperatures of bifae1a and bifae1b were determined by incubating the two enzymes with pnp-acetate at different temperatures 25 degc-60 degc with 5 degc increments in 0.1 m mops buffer ph 7.5 .

the two proteins have been designated bifae1a and bifae1b respectively after demonstration that they harbor ferulic acid esterase activities.the polypeptide of bifae1a is composed of one ce1 domain a and is in close genomic proximity to the xylanolytic enzymes characterized by wang et al.

it was not possible to detect any feruloylated oligosaccharides in the mixture after the incubation with bifae1a and bifae1b by hplc-dad and nmr spectroscopy which indicates a complete de-esterification and confirms the versatility of the two enzymes.the crystal structure of bifae1a revealed a flexi- ble loop that caps the active site and is likely important in the recognition of ferulic acid moieties of arabinoxylan oligosaccharides.

two short insertions in the sequence of bifae1b are seemingly positioned within the region of the active site that accommodates ferulic acid.

fa  ferulic acid.nmr spectroscopy b. in the heteronuclear single quantum coherence hsqc spectrum the ferulic acid substitution of an arabinofuranose residue at position o5 leads to a downfield shift of the two c5h5 correlations compared with an unsubstituted arabinofuranose residue.

