M2 ATMs not only resolve inflammation but also improve insulin sensitivity by inducing WAT remodeling or browning as demonstrated in various transgenic mouse models 26 39 40 41.M2 macrophage and WAT browningbeigingIn 2010 two research groups found that adiponectin a protective adipokine against inflammation and insulin resistance could prime macrophage M2 polarization 42 43.

Polarized M1 macrophage causes AT inflammation whereas polarized M2 macrophage promotes WAT remodeling into the BAT phenotype also known as WAT browningbeiging which enhances insulin sensitivity and metabolic health.

Functionally categorized mainly as M1 vs. M2 macrophages are also classified by their tissue local- ization as various tissue-resident macrophages such as Kupffer cells in the liver microglia in the brain alveolar macrophages in the lung and ATMs in ATs.

In human WAT browningbeiging is still poorly understood and the effects of beiging factors secreted from M2 ATMs remain to be explored.Figure 1 Relationship of M2 macrophage with WAT browningbeiging.

Using a macrophage-specific RIP140 knockdown transgenic mouse model we have validated that in the context of whole animals that lowering RIP140 in macrophages enhances macrophage M2 polarization and WAT browningbeiging protects against diet-induced metabolic diseases and improves wound healing 26 53 68.RIP140 was initially cloned as a corepressor of nuclear receptors such as retinoic acid RA receptors RARsand found to suppress the activation of RA genes to dampen RA signals 69 70 71.

DiYun fferential lipid partitioning between adipocytes and tissue macrophages modulates macrophage lipotoxicity and M2M1 polarization in obese mice.

WAT is distributed in the whole body categorized by its location as inguinal subcutaneous or visceral WAT 9.

Given the plasticity of AT a better understanding of WAT browningbeiging could shed lights on potential therapeutic strategies and facilitate the identification of therapeutic targets for treating metabolic diseases.Innate immunity and AT homeostasisObesity is often associated with low-grade chronic inflammation in WAT.

In obese WAT enlarged white adipocytes secrete chemokines CCL2 CCL5 and CCL8 to recruit pro-inflammatory M1 ATMs that release inflammatory cytokines IL-1b IL-6 and TNFa to induce WAT inflammation and insulin resis- tance.

Obesity is often characterized by over-expansion and inflammation of WAT where inflammatory cellsmediators are abundant especially pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages resulting in chronic low-grade inflammation and leading to insulin re- sistance and metabolic complications.

