isolates that could not be grown in the broth were grown in r2a plate media at room temperature 20-22 degc for 48 h.soft agar overlay technique for screening antagonistsantagonistic interactions among 25 isolates were screened by stamping 23 of the isolates on a soft agar lawn previously inoculated with one of the 25. the screening assays fortable 1list of isolates used for antagonistic interactions and biofilm assayantagonistic interaction were performed at both 14 degc and room temperature 20-22 degc.

twenty-five isolates that represent the egg surface microbial community diversity were selected out of the 92 isolates based on the previous pyrosequencing data and the phylogenetic tree topology of the isolates and were tested for antagonistic inter- actions and biofilm forming capabilities.antagonistic interactions between isolatesthe soft agar overlay technique proved to be a sensitive meth- od for detecting antagonistic interactions fig.

the sequences have been deposited at genbank and have the accession numbers of ky075675-ky075766.selection of isolates for antagonistic interactions and biofilm assayswe examined antagonistic interactions and biofilm-forming capabilities among 25 sturgeon egg isolates table .

the screening assay was performed three times with duplicates on each assay for a total of 6 replicates.confirmation of antagonistic interactions and analysisstamp strains which exhibited antagonistic interactions with lawn strains in at least one of the 6 replicates were further examined at the two temperature regimes with 12 replicated spotting on a single plate to confirm the antagonistic interac- tion and to determine the extent of inhibition fig.

we demonstrated that some isolates from the egg surfaces exhibited antagonistic interac- tions and biofilm forming capabilities that could help them to compete for resources and space on the egg when interacting with other members of the egg-associated microbial community.we found that temperature influenced the detection of an- timicrobial activity among isolates suggesting that the nature of microbial interactions on the egg surface microbial com- munity could vary across the prolonged spawning season for lake sturgeon since ambient water temperature changes dur- ing the egg incubation period and fluctuates daily .

once the microbial community on the surface of eggs is established interactions between populations within the community can range from highly mu- tualistic to highly antagonistic  and in a community of high diversity interactions between taxa can impact biofilmformation.

thus it is im- portant to simultaneously analyze antagonistic interactions and biofilm formation in order to fully understand how inter- actions among microbes affect microbial community assem- bly -.antagonistic microbial interactions have been studied in various microbial communities including those associated with sponges - corals  fish   and marine water -.

temperature dependency of antimicrobial interactions has previously been reported in other systems   but has particular relevance to the lake sturgeon host because adult sturgeon can spawn at different times during the season which normally correspond to comparatively 'colder' and 'warmer' stream temperatures  as contrasted in our experimental design.the phylogenetic trends we observed in antagonistic inter- actions were revealing in highlighting the evolutionary origins of microbial interactions.

we character- ized the magnitude of antagonistic interactions and biofilm formation of 25 phylogenetically diverse taxa that are repre- sentative of isolates obtained from egg surfaces of the threat- ened fish species lake sturgeon acipenser fulvescens at two ecologically relevant temperature regimes.

it is therefore im- portant to characterize individual isolates for bcommunity properties such as antagonistic interactions that directly link to survival of individuals in the context of community  .

to test this hypothesis we measured antagonistic interactions and biofilm forming capa- bility of 25 representative isolates from the egg surface of lake sturgeon at two temperature regimes that are relevant to the temperature range experienced during the spawning season of the lake sturgeon .

3 antagonistic interactions among 25 egg isolates at 14 and 20-22 degc.

4 a reciprocal antagonistic interactions among 25 egg surface isolates when positions of aggressors were switched from stamp to lawn.

5 antagonistic interactions against six known fish pathogens by the four most aggressive isolates.

one specific type of antagonistic interaction that has been studied extensively involves antagonistic interactions among host-associated microbes.

