compared with nc the relative abundance of ruminobacter was increased by mon but decreased by nisin irrespective of concentration p  0.05. on the contrary the relative abundance of pseudobutyrivibrio and unclassified rikenellaceae was decreased by mon but increased by nisin at both concentrations p  0.05. the relative abundance of unclassified bacteroidales was decreased by mon p  0.05 but not influenced by nisin p  0.05. the relative abundance oftable 1  effects of nisin and monensin addition on gas and methane production dry matter dm digestibility and ammonia concentration in the in vitro rumen mixed cultures at 24 h.nc negative control no additives mon monensin 5 um ni1 nisin 1 um ni5 nisin 5 um.a -d means within a row with different superscripts differ p  0.05.butyrivibrio roseburia and fibrobacter was decreased by both mon and ni5 but increased by ni1 p  0.05. in contrast the relative abundance of prevotella and anaeroplasma was decreased by mon and ni5 p  0.05 but not influenced by ni1 p  0.05. besides mon and nisin also had a parallel influence on some bacterial genera.

both mon and nisin significantly reduced shannon diversity index and increased the simpson index compared with nc p  0.05 but the reduction or increase magnitudes were greater for mon than for nisin p  0.05. the numbers of otus were reduced by mon and ni5 p  0.05 but unaffected by ni1 p  0.05. the ace and chao 1 estimates of richness were not influenced by mon or nisin p  0.05.in order to understand the impacts of mon and nisin on the overall rumen bacterial community pca analysis was performed .

compared with nc concentrations of isovalerate and total bcvfa were reduced by mon but were increased by nisin p  0.05. mon but not nisin decreased the concentration of isobutyrate p  0.05. overall the results indicate that mon and nisin showed different impacts on dry matter digestibility ammonia production and vfa profiles especially bcvfa profiles.effects of nisin and monensin on rumen microbial populationsquantitative real-time pcr showed that both mon and nisin significantly reduced p  0.05 the population of total bacteria and methanogens compared with nc .

compared to that of nc the population of c. aminophilum was increased p  0.05 by both mon and nisin  while that of c. sticklandii was decreased by mon but increased by nisin p  0.05. the results indicate that mon and nisin showed different effects on the populations of some major rumen microbes.effects of nisin and monensin on rumen bacterial communitiesthe effects of nisin and mon addition on the alpha diversity measurements of the ruminal bacterial community are summarized in .

both mon and nisin decreased the relative abundance of firmicutes compared with nc p  0.05 with mon corresponding to a greater decrease than nisin p  0.05. the relative abundance of bacteroidetes and tenericutes was significantly lower for mon and ni5 than for nc p  0.05 with the lowest observed for mon.

compared with nc the population of protozoa was reduced by mon p  0.05 but not by nisin p  0.05. the hab quantified c. aminophilum and c. sticklandii which have been shown previously to be sensitive to mon and nisin responded differently to mon and nisin.

both nisin and mon dramatically reduced gas and methane production compared with nc p  0.05 with mon resulting in the lowest gas production while ni5 leading to the lowest methane production.

nisin significantly increased ammonia concentration p  0.05 in a dose-dependent manner whereas mon had no effect.compared with nc both mon and nisin significantly increased culture ph.

both mon and nisin reduced concentrations of total vfa acetate butyrate valerate and acetatepropionate ratio p  0.05 but increased propionate concentration with mon resulting in a greater than nisin.

both mon and nisin also significantly reduced the population of fungi p  0.05 with the greatest reduction observed for mon followed by ni5 and ni1.

a clear separation was seen between nc and mon along pc1 which explains 67 of total variation while ni1 and ni5 were separated from nc and mon along pc2 which explains 21 of total variation.

on the contrary the relative abundance of proteobacteria was significantly higher for mon and ni5 than for nc p  0.05 with the highest observed for mon.

the relative abundance of spirochaetae was decreased by mon p  0.05 but not influenced by nisin p  0.05. the relative abundance of fibrobacteres was decreased by mon and ni5 p  0.05 but increased by ni1 p  0.05.a total of 69 genera of bacteria were identified and these genera together accounted for 73.6-84.7  of all the sequences.

compared withtable 2  effects of nisin and monensin addition on the alpha diversity measurements of ruminal bacteria at 3 dissimilarity level.itemncmonni1ni5semp-valuencnegative control no additives monmonensin 5 um ni1nisin 1 um ni5nisin 5 um otuoperational taxonomic units aceabundance-based coverage estimator.a -d means within a row with different superscripts differ p  0.05.nc four otus were decreased by mon p  0.05 but increased by nisin irrespective of concentration p  0.05. five otus were increased by mon p  0.05 but decreased p  0.05 or unchanged p  0.05 by nisin at both concentrations.

these data suggested that the different effects of monensin and nisin on microbial community particularly fibrolytic bacterial composition might have resulted in their discrepancy on feed digestion.effects of nisin and mon on methane production and related changes in major microbial groups and bacterial communitycorroborating the findings of several previous studies      the present study also showed reduced methane production by nisin and monensin with reduction by 38.7 54.9 and 38.1 in the ni1 ni5 and mon treatments respectively.

