research articleskin microbiota in frogs from the brazilian atlantic forest species forest type and potential against pathogensananda brito de assis1 cristine chaves barreto2 carlos arturo navas1department of physiology institute of biosciences university of sao paulo sao paulo sao paulo brazilgraduate program in genomic sciences and biotechnology catholic university of bras'ilia bras'ilia brazil abstractopen accesscitation assis abd barreto cc navas ca 2017 skin microbiota in frogs from the brazilian atlantic forest species forest type and potential against pathogens.

that is why we explored and described the possible role of skin microbiota as antimicrobial agents by applying standard tests to a fraction of the bacterial forms that could be isolated from skin.material and methodsgeneral approachto test the hypothesis that bacterial communities of anuran skin vary among sympatric species of the atlantic forest we compared the composition of cutaneous microbiota in eight popula- tions of four species of anurans from two forest types fragments and continuous forest of south eastern atlantic forest.

our research goal was to compare the skin bacterial community of four anuran species of the atlantic forest of brazil in landscapes from two different environments continuous forest and fragmented forest.

the atlantic forest of brazil is an ideal setting to explore this because few large areas of continuous forest remain with most of the habitatdominated by forest fragments .

from the bacterial morphotypes isolated we subsampled morphotypes for taxonomic identification prioritizing those that exhibited antimicrobial effects and as a sec- ondary criterion maximized morphological diversity in each host-species and sampling site.study areaour study was conducted in the state of sao paulo brazil in contrasting areas of the atlantic forest continuous forest areas with significant extensions of protected forest and frag- ments patches of forested habitat with evident disruption of the unity of the landscape .

a continuous forest of atlantic forest b fragmented forest of atlantic forest.fragments we collected frogs along the courses of a permanent stream p. boiei a walking trail a. leucopygius and a temporary pond d. minutus.

species richness is maximized in large areas of continuous forest but many species still occupy forest fragments in several landscapes .

one continuous forest was the serra do mar state park-unit of santa virg'inia usv 2320's 4508 w which has an area of 175 km2 and 60 of primary forest forestry foundation- department of environment of the state of sao paulo.

another continuous forest area was para'iso eco lodge farm int 2414's 4822'w a locality within intervales state park in a forested area of 417 04 km2 60 considered primary forest forestry foundation-depart- ment of environment of the state of sao paulo.

some of the data on p. distincta were published previously by assis and colleagues .influence of the forest type on the skin microbiotabecause we observed interspecific differences in microbial parameters we assessed how forest type influenced the microbiota by comparing density of cfus and richness of morphotypes across individuals of each species.

however differences in the bacterial richness between these forests was observed only for p. boiei g  59.9 p  0.001.individuals of p. distincta g  0.22 p  0.99 d. minutus g  1.40 p  0.997 and a. leucopy- gius g  1.97 p  0.991 exhibited similar values of bacterial richness across forest types .differences between sampling sitesvariation in microbiota attributable to sampling site was assessed in d. minutus and p. boiei because only for these two species we had data comparing two sites within each forest type continuous versus fragmented see .

the brazilian atlantic forest how much is left and how is the remaining forest distributed implications for conservation.

body size was therefore not considered as a covariate in further analysis.regardless of the forest type and sampling site the microbiota of the amphibian species studied differed in density of cfus welch's anova f  66.5 p  0.0001 see  and inrichness of bacterial morphotypes g  137.4 p  0.001. the highest values of bacterial den- sity and richness were observed on p. boiei whereas d. minutus and a. leucopygius exhibited lower values .

our results demonstrate variation in the skin microbiota of sympatric amphibians but only one frog species exhibited differences in the bacterial communities between populations from fragmented and continuous forest.therefore the variation we observed is probably derived from both intrinsic aspects of the host amphibian species and extrinsic aspects of the environment occupied by the host.finally we detected antimicrobial activity in 27 morphotypes of bacteria isolated from all four amphibian species.foundation fapesp 200857687-0 200851793- 2 .

more recently bioaugmentation experiments suggest that bacterial species isolated from amphibian skin can be used to inocu- late infected animals and reduce symptoms and mortality caused by the amphibian patho- genic fungus batrachochytrium dendrobatidis bd  a fungus responsible for population declines of amphibians in different parts of the world .

