as suspected mice consuming coca-free and pepsi-free displayed elevated cns-infiltrating pro- inflammatory th17 cells il-17a gmcsf double positive il-17a ifn-g double positive or total il-17a both il-17a gmcsf- single positive and il-17a gmcsf double positive b while the levels of th17 cells in other groups were either unchanged coca-cola and pepsi or even slightly decreased coca-zero for il-17a ifn-g. the cns- infiltrating total gm-csf both il-17a- gmcsf single positive and il-17a gmscf double positive or total ifn-g both il-17a- ifn-g single positive and il-17a ifn-g double positive cd4 t cells were also calculated which were unaffected in all hscb groups but decreased in mice consuming coca-zero b. the th17 level in the ln of coca- free and pepsi-free groups was also elevated but still unchanged in response to coca-zero which was con- sistent with cns results e. surprisingly the numbers of th17 cells in ln were also elevated in response to regular coca-cola and regular pepsi e suggesting a detrimental potential of these beverages.

these data revealed that hscbs consumption had selective effects on specific microbial taxa.among the enriched commensals in response to hscbs escherichia coli was reported to instigate chronic colitis and th17 response 43 ruminococcus was shown to drive provocative il-17 expression in mesenteric lymph nodes and mucispirillum elicited t cells-dependent iga response similar to segmented filamentous bacterium consistent with altered microbiota community structure the th17 response in the intestine was also increased in mice consuming hscbs c. besides the th17 level in the spleen was also increased in these mice before eae induction c which was dovetailed with elevated th17 response in the ln of eae mice e. the th17 level was not significantly changed in either intestine orspleen of mice consuming coca-zero before eae induction c which was also consistent with the ln results of eae mice e. collectively these results further strengthen a detrimental potential of all hscbs but not coca-zero in provoking th17 response.to determine the role of intestinal flora in the hypersensitivity of eae in response to caffeine-free hscbs mice were depleted of microbiota via anti- biotics before the induction of eae.

further investigations demonstrated that gut-residing segmented filamentous bacterium antigens presented by dc specifically drive th17 cells differentiation which is pivotal for the pathogenesis of eae and ra 17. moreover intestinal luminal adenosine 5'-triphosphate atp which could be derived from commensal bacteria was shown to activate a unique subset of lamina propria cells cd70high cd11clow cells leading to the differ- entiation of th17 cells and an increasing risk for inflammatory colitis and eae these results corroborated gi microbiota and metabolites as pivotal internal environmental elements for triggering autoimmune diseases.dietary patterns have short- and long-term effects in shaping the composition of gut microbiota and mod- ulating its metabolic machinery products.

these results indicated that long-term consumption of caffeine-free hscbs increased the risk for eae disease in mice.pathogenic role of th17 cells in the progress of aggravated eae in response to caffeine-free hscbsth17 cells are critical for the pathogenesis of eae via producing pro-inflammatory cytokines such as il-17a gm-csf and ifn-g which directly inducepathogenesis or recruit neutrophils and macrophages and lead to myelin damage to investigate whether caffeine-free hscbs consumption aggravates the pathogenesis of eae by modulating these cells lymphocytes from the cns and inguinal lymph nodes ln were isolated and the levels of th17 cells were detected.

we also detected the percentage of treg cells in the ln which were reported to suppress the pathogenesis of eae via inhibiting the function of th17 cells no significant difference of treg cells was detected among all these groups f. these results suggested that hscbs specifically enhanced th17 response without affecting the percentage of treg cells.

the luminal th17 level was also slightly increased in response to high sucrose feces n whichmatched with our hypothesis.sucrose was digested in the small intestine and dissected to fructose and glucose and glucose wasreported to trigger atp secretion from bacteria luminal atp was shown to promote th17 cells differentiation in lamina propria and promote the pathogenesis of colitis and eae thus we also detected the luminal atp level after long-term con- sumption of individual cola beverages or 10 sucrose.

the ingredients of these beverages are listed in 1. results showed that long-term consumption of caffeine-free cola beverages coca-free and pepsi-free but not other colabeverages aggravated disease development as indicated by higher clinical scores exacerbated demyelization and elevated central nervous system cns-infiltrated pathogenic th17 cells.

the extracellular atp receptors that is p2x and p2y receptors are highly expressed in numerous immune cells in various organs and tissues and atp could also directly induce excite-toxicity in oligodendrocytes via p2x7 receptors thus specific blocking of atp receptors in the intestine or erasing luminal atp will better address the role of atp in this process.the metabolic activities of mice consuming individual cola beverages or sucrose were also significantly altered supplementary figures s1 and 4 and metabolic factors also regulated the development and function of t cells whether the metabolic changes in response to hscbs or high sucrose contributed to the detrimental role of these beverages needs further investigation.-figure 5 caffeine cou-nteracts the disease-prone potential of high sucrose in eae.

this was further evidenced by increased th17 response in both regular coca-cola and coca-free feces recipients h. we also found slightly increased susceptibility to eae in recipients of feces from coca-zero group even though the th17 level was unchanged which suggested a dif- ferent mechanism.figure 2 hscbs boost th17 responses in eae.

unfortunately due to the 'patented' formula of these commercial beverages we were unable to address the effects of all these components.luminal atp triggers th17-prone molecules such as il-6 il-23p19 and tgfb-activating integrin-av and -b8 from a cd70high cd11clow subset of the lamina propria cells and administration of atp exacerbates a t-cell-mediated colitis model with enhanced th17 differentiation luminal atp was also linked with the pathogenesis of eae digested in the small intestine sucrose is dissected into fructose and glucose.

represented dots were gated on tcrb cd4.h three-dimensional unweighted unifrac principal coordinates analysis plots of fecal samples isolated from mice consuming individual beverages for 8 weeks n  10. i and j representative staining and statistical analysis of th17 cells in different organs of mice consuming 10 sucrose or h2o.

whether elevated atp plays any role in the aggravated pathogenesis of eae needs further investigation.collectively these results demonstrated that high sucrose in hscbs altered the community structure of microbiota increased th17 responses and potentially increased the risk of eae.caffeine contamination counteracted the detrimental role of sucrosewhile all hscbs altered the community structure of microbiota and enhanced peripheral th17 responses only caffeine-free hscbs exacerbated the pathogenesis of eae.

as suspected caffeine addition delayed the onset and reduced the severity of eae d. indeed the cns-infiltrated inflammatory lymphocytes were significantly reduced in response to caffeine contamination f consistent with previous findings in regular coca-cola and regular pepsi b. however the th17 level was unaffected in the inguinal ln of eae mice h neither in the colon small intestine or spleen of disease-free mice l. caffeine addition did not alter the treg level either j. collectively these results suggested that caffeine counteracted the detrimental role of sucrose via reducing infiltrated inflammatory lymphocytes without altering peripheral th17 responses.

further investigation revealed that hscbs altered community structure of microbiota and increased th17 cells.

further research revealed that all the hscbs and high sucrose markedly changed the community structure of intestinal microbiota to promote th17 cells and feces transplantation from these groups also increased the risk of eae.

