they measured the dunnarts' ability to maintain a stable body temperature whether and when juveniles used torpor and whether they would use an artificial heat source to reduce the costs of heat production as they aroused from a bout of torpor.interestingly the team found that the juveniles are already capable of entering torpor even before they can regulate their body temperature fully and they were able to achieve this by basking.

however they were unable to restore a warm body temperature after torpor unless they had the opportunity to crawl under the warmth of a heat lamp.to find out whether the juveniles were just losing too much heat causing them to cool down involuntarily or had entered a genuine state of torpor the team compared the juvenile dunnarts' heat loss rate with the heat loss of dead animals that had been warmed to the same initial body temperature.

nonetheless dunnarts of all ages still basked undera heat source whenever they had the chance.wacker and colleagues conclude that juvenile dunnarts are able to enter torpor even before they are capable of producing sufficient heat to maintain a stable temperature and they need to bask in the sun to resume a warm body temperature after torpor.

continuing such interdisciplinary work is therefore essential for both fields to progressand could potentially provide answers to many biological conundrums.10.1242jeb.147462 michelle a. reeveoutside jebjournal of experimental biology 2017 220 2299-2302juvenile marsupials need the sun to warm upstaying warm whatever the weather is energetically costly and many mammals resort to torpor and abandon their stable body temperature during challenging periods in order to save energy.

the team looked at juvenile dunnarts between the ages of 40 and 160 days - the age at which they leave the mother's pouch and switch from depending on her warmth to maintaining their own body temperature.

whenthe juveniles emerged from the pouch at around 60 days they were able to maintain a more or less stable body temperature for a few hours although they entered torpor during the later partof the night.

this comparison showed that the live dunnarts cooled fasterthan the dead animals indicating that they controlled the decrease in body temperature and entered torpor.

and when the team monitored the juveniles' use of torpor they found that animals were still entering torpor during the night at around 90 days of age when they were already able to maintain a stable warm body temperature during the course of the entire night although the older youngsters were able to rewarm and emerge from torpor with greater ease.

this observation also raises the possibility that basking may be a crucial step in the development of heterothermy - where an animal does not always maintain a single stable body temperature - in small animals that live in warm habitats.

