the combinations were as follows conventional tillage with residue removal ct r the agricultural practice most commonly used in belgium conventional tillage with residue retention ct r reduced tillage with residue removal rt r and reduced tillage with residue retention rt r. conventionally tilled plots were plowed to a depth of 25 cm while in the plots under reduced tillage only the top 10 cm of the soil was mixed shallow tillage.

our study found that under the specific edaphic and climatic context of central belgium different tillage regimes created different ecological niches that select for different microbial lifestyles with potential consequences for the ecosystem services provided to the plants and their environment.keywords conventional tillage reduced tillage crop residue management cropping season microbial diversity metabarcodingintroductionit is well recognized that agricultural productivity strongly relies on a wide range of ecosystem services provided by the soil biota  .

in our study we compared conventional plowing system ct with reduced tillage rt an intermediate soil disturbance tillage system where only the top 10 cm of soil is disturbed in order to improve the conditions for seed germination.moving towards more sustainable agricultural management and more specifically towards reduced tillage with crop residue retention is not without consequences for the soil microbiota in terms of structure a- and b-diversity and functions.

here we used high-throughput sequencing of bacterial and fungal ribosomal markers to explore changes in soil microbial community structure under two contrasting tillage regimes conventional and reduced tillage either with or without crop residue retention.

tillage crop and growing stage were significant determinants of microbial community structure but the impact of tillage showed only moderate temporal dependency.

whereas the tillage effect on soil bacteria showed some temporal dependency and became less strong at later growing stages the tillage effect on soil fungi was more consistent over time.

six years after the conversion from conventional to reduced tillage soil moisture contents and nutrient levels were significantly lower under reduced than under conventional tillage.

notably bacterial groups featuring copiotrophic lifestyles or potentially carrying the ability to degrade more recalcitrant compounds were favored under conventional tillage whereas taxa featuring more oligotrophic lifestyles were more abundant under reduced tillage.

in belgian cropping systems conventional tillage associated with crop residue exportation is currently the most commonly used tillage system applied by the farmers.

since individual members of the soil microbiota can have both beneficial and detrimental effects on crop growth and productivity a detailed assessment of their specific response is of primary interest.in the presented study two different hypotheses have been tested 1 below the seedbed different tillage regimes alter the structure a- and b-diversity of microbial communities and lead to different microbial life strategies by changing soil physical and chemical properties and 2 below the seedbed tillage-related effects on soil microbial community structure vary across the growing season and differences in community structure between conventional and reduced tillage get smaller towards the end of the growing season.

briefly each soil treatment consisted of a combination of different soil practices a tillage regime conventional or reduced tillage combined with a crop residue management practice residue retention or removal.

we tested the effect of the following factors tillage regime with conventional ct and reduced rt tillage crop residue management with residue retention r  and removal r  crop with v. faba and t. aestivum and the growing season of v. faba seedling early stage leaf development intermediate stage flowering late stage and t. aestivum tillering early stage and grain filling late stage.

in order to visualize positive or negative responses of the individual taxa to one of the tillage regimes the relative abundances were z-transformed and then averaged by tillage.

these shifts in bacterial and fungal b-diversity due to tillage crop and growing season became evident in the pco plots with communities clustering by tillage regime on the first bacteria or second fungi axis .

for faba bean the bacterial and fungal communities showed the highest dissimilarity lowest similarity value between ct and rttable 2  effects of tillage regime crop residue management crop and growing season on bacterial and fungal b-diversity.bacteriafungitillageseason1.10.231.10.13as the second f 14 p 0.00001 and tillage regime as the third ranking factor f 6 p 0.00001 while no crop residue effect f 0.9 p 0.5 was observed.

