a recent study reported a complete degradation of rosmarinic acid and the generation of microbial product caffeic acid after in vitro fermen- tation using human feces mosele and others 2014. the caffeic acid undergoes subsequent microbial transformation to yield hy- droxyphenylpropionic acids as major metabolites a process medi- ated by microbial chlorogenate esterases or by lactobacillus johnsonii bel-rhlid and others 2009. results of human intervention study confirmed these in vitro findings mosele and others 2014. these and other microbial metabolites were found to selectively inhibit the growth of pathogenic bacteria and stimulate the growth of beneficial microorganisms madureira and others 2016.growth stimulatory effecttable 2 illustrates the growth stimulatory effect of spice extracts on 17 strains of bifidobacterium and 16 strains of lactobacillus.

similarly 16 strains of lactobacillus species consist- ing of 12 strains recovered from human intestinal contents and 4 atcc lactobacillus type strains were studied.

u.s.a. plates containing serial dilutions of each spice extract and control plates without the tested spice were prepared hecht and others 2012 jousimies- somer and others 2012. spice extracts 182 mg dry spice per milliliter were 1st diluted by 20 times to give 9.0 mgml con- centration which was further diluted to give 4.50 2.25 1.13 0.56 0.28 0.14 and 0.07 mgml of extracts.

mic is defined as the lowest con-centration of each spice resulting in no growth or a marked change in the appearance of growth as compared to the control plate as described in the clinical and laboratory standards institute- approved protocol hecht and others 2012. further the concen- trations resulting in the change of the appearance of growth as compared to the control plate were recorded to establish for each test strain the concentration where the tested spice had no effect on the growth where the spice stimulated the growth and where the growth stimulation by the test spice reached a plateau li and others 2015a.statistical analysischemical analysis and antioxidant assay were carried out in trip- licate and data were presented as mean standard deviation sd.

data revealed that all spice extracts were inactive against all bifidobacterium and lactobacillus isolates with mic of 9 mgml except that blp was active against 1 lactobacillus acidophilus and 1 lactobacillus gasseri strain with mic of 6.82 mgml and 1 l. gasseri and 1 l. johnsonii strain with mic of 9 mgml.

in both in vitro and human studies li and others 2015a b molan and others 2009 mandalari and others 2010 vendrame and others 2011. evidence is growing in support of the prebiotic effect of foods high in polyphenolstable 3-minimum inhibitory concentrationsa mgml of black pepper blp cayenne pepper cap cinnamon cin ginger gin mediterranean oregano ore rosemary ros and turmeric tur extracts against intestinal bacterial species.coli toxin abscessavalues are average of 2 tests.brange 1 c. difficile strain had mic 4.5 mgml 11 strains 9 mgml.crange 1 lactobacillus acidophilus and 1 lactobacillus gasseri strain with mic of 6.82 mgml and 1 l. gasseri and 1 l. johnsonii strain with mic of 9 mgml.drange 1 l. acidophilus strain had mic 9 mgml 15 lactobacillus spp.

our study reported new findings in that among 7 spice extracts ore was most active in promoting the growth of bifi- dobacterium whereas gin blp and cap produced more modest stimulatory activity.studies of lactobacillus rhamnosus gg lgg atcc 53103 have shown promising results in treating diarrhea caused by viruses and bacteria vanderhoof and others 1999 guandalini and others 2000 atopic disease kalliomaki and others 2001 and in preven- tion of gastrointestinal and respiratory tract infections hojsak and others 2010. in our study all spice extracts were found to promote the growth of lgg strain at concentration ranging from 0.56 to4.5 mgml.

altogether 17 strains of bifidobacterium species consisting of 11 strains recovered from human intestinal contents and 6 atcc bifidobacterium type strains were studied.

at 2.25 mgml 1 strain was stimulated by blp 4 by gin and 6 by ore. at4.5 mgml 7 strains were stimulated by blp 10 by cap 6 by gin 4 by ore and 1 by tur.of the 16 lactobacillus strains tested the growth of 1 strain was enhanced by blp and another one by cap at the concentration of 0.56 mgml.

prebiotic potential and chemical composition of seven culinary spice extractsqing-yi lu paula h. summanen ru-po lee jianjun huang susanne m. henning david heber sydney m. finegold and zhaoping liabstract the objective of this study was to investigate prebiotic potential chemical composition and antioxidant capacity of spice extracts.

u.s.a. and 6-gingerol from chromadex irvine calif. u.s.a.. they were used for the identification and quan- tification of spice chemicals.spice samples and extract preparationseven culinary spice samples black pepper blp cayenne pepper cap cinnamon cin ginger gin mediterranean oregano ore rosemary ros and turmeric tur mc- cormick company inc. sparks md.

the antioxidant capacity of spice extracts correlated well with the total chemical concentration r 0.86 r2 0.74.results from our chemical investigations indicated that most spice extracts contain either moderate or high content of spice- specific phytochemicals.

journal of food science published by wiley periodicals inc. on behalf of institute of food technologists.this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.not with the concentration of chemical biomarker henning and others 2011.there is limited amount of information regarding the activity of culinary spice extracts against clinical isolated intestinal bacteria and a limited number of bacterial strains have been assessed for their susceptibility or antimicrobial activity against spices.

future research on the connections between spice-induced changes in gut microbiota and host metabolism and disease preventive effect in animal models and humans is needed.keywords bifidobacterium intestinal bacteria lactobacillus minimum inhibitory concentration spicepractical application this research shows that aqueous extract of culinary spice exhibited high antioxidant capacity that correlated with the total amount of major chemicals.

cinnamaldehyde a bioactive component of cinnamon was shown to exhibit more potent in vitro antibacterial prop- erties against 5 common foodborne pathogenic bacteria bacillus cereus listeria monocytogenes s. aureus e. coli and salmonella ana- tum with mic being 125 to 500 ugml as compared to crude cinnamon stick extract 625 to 2500 ugml shan and oth- ers 2007 but cinnamaldehyde did not modulate the population of selected lactobacillus and bifidobacterium counts in mouse cecal content khare and others 2016. supplementation of rosemary extract was reported to increase bacteroidesprevotella groups and re- duce the lactobacillusleuconostocpediococcus group in the caecum of both obese and lean rats romo-vaquero and others 2014. based on potential health benefits demonstrated from our group this study investigated major chemical constituents antioxidant activity and in vitro effect of 7 spice extracts on the growth of 33 beneficial bifidobacterium spp.

