Our findings suggest an increase in bacterial populations in Alzheimer brain tissue compared with normal.Keywords Alzheimer's disease AD bacteria human microbiome 16S rRNA next generation sequencing NGSINTRODUCTIONPathological triggers culminating in the eventual loss of cognitive function in Alzheimer's disease AD are widely acknowledged to occur up to two decades before symptoms arise  .

Hulette C. M. Welsh-Bohmer K. A. Murray M. G. Saunders A. M. Mash D. C. and McIntyre L. M. 1998.

''Propionobacterium acnes and chronic diseases'' in The Infectious Etiology of Chronic Diseases Defining the Relationship Enhancing the Research and Mitigating the Effects eds S. L. Knobler S. O'Connor S. M. Lemon and M. Najafi Seattle WA Corixa Corporation 74-80.Bolger A. M. Lohse M. and Usadel B.

Likewise in this study C. pneumoniae was completely absent as was E. coli K99   and some other periodontal species previously associated with AD were noticeable by their extremely low levels or complete absence also some other non-oral bacterium commonly associated with AD.SUMMARYThis is a novel comparative pilot study using 16S ribosomal NGS to assess the bacterial component of the microbiome in frozen and fixed post-mortem tissue from AD and control temporal cortex.

The neurological deterioration associated with Alzheimer's disease AD involving accumulation of amyloid-beta peptides and neurofibrillary tangles is associated with evident neuroinflammation.

Pathogenic microbes the microbiome and Alzheimer's disease AD.

Furthermore the physiological characteristics of P. acnes        including its known ability to grow slowly in the cortex  would make P. acnes a good candidate for a bacterial source of neuroinflammation in AD brains and the bacterial reads seen here would warrant further investigation.The closely related Corynebacteriaceae reported here are only defined to an uncharacterized culture and not C. diphtheriae but it is perhaps worth noting a report suggesting thatC.

The microbiome and disease reviewing the links between the oral microbiome aging and Alzheimer's disease.

Common mechanisms involved in Alzheimer's disease and type 2 diabetes a key role of chronic bacterial infection and inflammation.

The SWDBB is part of the Brains for Dementia Research programme jointly funded by Alzheimer's Research UK and Alzheimer's Society and is supported by BRACE and the Medical Research Council.SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALThe Supplementary Material for this article can be found online at FIGURE S1  Gel electrophoresis analysis of amplicons.

