values are shown as means -sem n 5 rats per group and g-k. immunohistochemical analysis of occludin-1 in the colon of rats fed control diet c high fat diet with 5 sucrose in their drinking water hfs obese rats consuming hfs  5 nopal hfs  n and obese rats switched to c diet with hfs-c  n or without hfs-c 5 nopal at the end of the treatment period 400x magnification.consumption of nopal decreases brain oxidative stress neuroinflammation and improves cognitive function.

wistar rats were fed one of the following diets control diet c high fat diet with 5 sucrose in their drinking water hfs hfs  5 nopal hfs  n and obese rats switched to c diet with hfs-c  n or without hfs-c 5 nopal.

relative mrna abundance of c leptin d tnf-a e nadph oxidase nox and f amyloid precursor protein app in adipose tissue of wistar rats fed one of the following diets control diet c high fat diet with 5 sucrose in drinking water hfs hfs  5 nopal hfs  n and obese rats switched to c diet with hfs-c  n or without hfs-c 5 nopal.

relative expression of a srebp-1 b acetyl-coa carboxylase acc c fas d ppar-a and e cpt-1 in liver of wistar rats fed one of the following diets control diet c high fat diet with 5 sucrose in drinking water hfs hfs  5 nopal hfs  n and obese rats switched to c diet with hfs-c  n or without hfs-c 5 nopal.

immediately following the pretreatment period rats from the high fat-sucrose group were randomly assigned to one of four groups for the treatment period 1 month fed the following diets n  5 per group 1 hfs hfs group 2 c hfs-c group 3 hfs  5 dehydrated nopal hfs  n group 4 c  5 dehy- drated nopal hfs-c  n group.

recent studies highlight the relation between gut microbiota and brain in particular obesity-induced dysbiosis has been associated with poor cognitive flexibility highlighting the role of microbiota on central nervous system function.in conclusion the results of the present work indicate that modifications in the diet can reduce several abnor- malities in biochemical parameters produced by obesity interestingly the addition of nopal can ameliorate spe- cific biochemical paremeters of obesity such as total cholesterol gip app leptin and ab1-40 peptides modifying the gut microbiota despite the consumption of a hfs diet generating metabolic benefits similar to those observed when obese rats are switched to consume a c diet.

rats were divided in two groups for the pretreatment period 7 months a control group n 5 fed the c diet and a high fat-sucrose group n 20 fed the hfs diet.

a alpha diversity and rarefaction curves.principal components analysis of the c hfs hfs  n hfs-c  n and hfs-c groups n 5 per grouprelative abundance of firmicutes and bacteriodetes d relative abundance of gut microbiota at the genus level e and at species level and f heatmap of the ten bacterial species with greatest differences among groups.expression of the genes tnf-a and nadph oxidase nox involved in inflammation and oxidative stress in white adipose tissue with respect to the rats fed hfs diet fig.

in the present study obese rats fed a hfs diet with nopal significantly decreased most of the biochemical abnormalities associated with obesity to levels similar to those fed the controlfigure 8. nopal consumption decreases oxidative stress and improves cognitive function.

interestingly inclusion of the nopal in hfs diet for 1 month resulted in a significant decrease in gip and insulin concentrations indicating that nopal can prevent gip hypersecretion and hyperinsulinemia.

clustering the bacterial communities using principal component analysis pcoa revealed that the microbiota after nopal consumption hfs  n hfs-c  n was different to that of the hfs c and hfs-c groups anosim r  0.98 p  0.001 fig.

interestingly obese rats fed hfs n and hfs-c  n or hfs-c showed a significant decrease in gip by 68 94 and 34.6 respectively compared with the hfs group indicative of a more potent effect of nopal on gip fig.

we found that obese rats fed hfs  n hfs-c  n or hfs-c significantly decreased thefigure 4. nopal consumption modifies the intestinal microbiota.

the expression of the sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1 srebp-1 fatty acid synthase fas and acetyl coa carboxylase acc was reduced by 33 45 and 46 respectively in the hfs  n group by 62 58 and 80 respectively in the hfs-c  n group and by 51 89 and 37respectively in the hfs-cfigure 6. nopal consumption decreases metabolic endotoxemia prevents the hypersecretion of glucose insulinotropic peptide gip and improves glucose tolerance.

we observed a 30-fold increase in adipose tissue app expression in rats fed the hfs diet for the treatment period compared with the control group whereas app expression was significantly reduced in the hfs  n and hfs-c  n and hfs-c groups by 73 98 and 39 respectively compared with the hfs group fig.

