The community structure of Lower Muschelkalk rock rLM Middle Muschelkalk rock rMM soil of Lower Muschelkalk sLM and soil from Middle Muschelkalk sMM are given in percentages obtained from reads constituting more than 0.5indicates species richness within each sample Table In comparison of isolated microbes from soil and rock soils showed higher similarity between the two lithotypes 34 common taxa from a total of 50 while for rocks only one of39 isolates was present on both lithotypes.

Microbial communities within each habitat of rock groundwater and soil are linked by their potential metabolic pathwaysdiversity and prevalence of microbes in soil as compared to rock samples thus should be expected.All habitat-dependent attributes structure microbial communities and therefore indicate an influence on prevailing metabolic processes.

DNA from rock samples was extracted after a modified protocol from 10 g crushed rock samples using a sterile mortar and pistle.

Comparison of isolates from rock and soil with groundwaterSoil from Lower Muschelkalk yielded Firmicutes in a proportion of approximately 36 while soil on Middle Muschelkalk was characterized by a higher number ofFIGURE 3 Archaeal microbiome on genus level from rock of Lower Muschelkalk rLM.

Venn diagram visualizes overlaps of same genera with rock of Lower Muschelkalk rLM community from rock Middle Muschelkalk rMM community from soil on Lower Muschelkalk sLM and community from soil Middle Muschelkalk sMMhighest diversity and cell numbers the highest rate of substrate utilization.

Both soil and rock communities from Lower Muschelkalk showed metabolic activities for polymers that are usually degraded by secretedTABLE 1 Diversity indices and rarefaction values based on bacterial numbers of OTUs displaying species richness and diversity in Lower Muschelkalk LM and Middle Muschelkalk MM for rock r and soil s samplesenzymes such as depolymerases hydrolyzing poly-3-hydrox- ybutyrate that can be metabolized by fermentation into acetate and butyrate.

For both Lower and Middle Muschelkalk soil developed on this bedrock groundwater and rock samples were investigated for microbial community structure and physiological traits of dominant taxa to test this hypothesis.

All samples were stored at 6 degC prior to analysis.Rock samples were taken carefully from the inner core of Lower Wellenkalk that belongs to the Lower MuschelkalkFIGURE 1 Localization of sampling sites and view of lithostratigraphy on siteand from the upper Schaumkalkbank of the Middle Muschelkalk at the quarry in Bad Kosen.

Soil and rock associated microbial communitiesMicrobiomes were compared on genus and kingdom level for bacteria in soil and rock samples.

Soil and rock habitats were analyzed and compared with groundwater which connects the two by percolating groundwater recharge.

