81 147-158 2015.smith s. e. smith f. a.  jakobsen i. functional diversity in arbuscular mycorrhizal am symbioses the contribution of the mycorrhizal p uptake pathway is not correlated with mycorrhizal responses in growth or total p uptake.

our findings show that interactions among plants amf and mycorrhizospheric bacteriafigure 2. linear relationship between shoot dry weight and shoot p content of mycorrhizal am and non mycorrhizal nm z. mays l. genotype oh43 inoculated with different bacterial strains.

plant soil 312 85-99 2008.pepe a. giovannetti m.  sbrana c. different levels of hyphal self-incompatibility modulate interconnectedness of mycorrhizal networks in three arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi within the glomeraceae.

65 310-322 2008.bharadwaj d. p. lundquist p. o.  alstrom s. arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal spore-associated bacteria affect mycorrhizal colonization plant growth and potato pathogens.

the sufficiency of p is a concern because of it's essential role in plant growth the finite availability of p-rock for fertilizer production and the poor plant availability of soil p. this study investigated whether biofertilizers and bioenhancers such as arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi amf and their associated bacteria could enhance growth and p uptake in maize.

the abundant plant root-associated microbiota represents one sustainable strategy for the exploitation and mobilization of the soil p pool.arbuscular mycorrhizal am fungi amf glomeromycota are important beneficial soil microorganisms establishing mutualistic associations with most food crops.

amf mycorrhizal networks may differentially affect p and n supply to host plants depending on their structural and functional properties- including the occurrence and differential expression of p transporter and n assimilation fungal genes-.

email mycorrhizal plants is also the result of hyphal p uptake beyond the p depletion zone caused by the fast root absorption of p from the soil solution which cannot be rapidly replenished given the poor mobility of p in the soil .

recently a culture-dependent approach allowed the isolation in pure culture of 374 bacterial strains strictly associated with rhizophagus irregularis for- merly glomus intraradices spores and the selection of actinobacteria bacillaceae and sinorhizobium meliloti strains showing several pgp activities including p mineralization from phytate and mineral p solubilization.this work for the first time investigated to which degree growth and p uptake of mycorrhizal and non-mycorrhizal maize plants would benefit from inoculation with a selection of bacterial strains isolated from amf spores showing multiple pgp activities in vitro.

bacterial inoculation had no effects on mycorrhizal colonization which ranged from 78 to 87 in exp.

1 and 2 where hld increased by 19 and 25 over the levels measured in mycorrhizal plants without bacterial inoculation.p content and p uptake.

moreover mycorrhizal plants showed higher counts when co-inoculated with bacteria than when non-co-inoculated at four early time points 16 18 21 and 23d.in exp.

1 shoot and root p content and root length specific p uptake were 177 196 and 80 greater in mycorrhizal than in nm treatments p  0.001 table .

2 as amf inoculation strongly increased plant variables not allowing the satisfaction of data normality and homogeneity of variances values of mycorrhizal and nm plants were analysed separately by one-way anova followed by student's t test to compare the pooled means table .

as expected shoot and root p content as well as root specific p uptake of maize plants responded strongly to mycorrhizal colonization p  0.001. bacterial inoculation of nm plants significantly increased root p content p  0.036 with increases higher than 80 in plants inoculated with streptomyces sp.

