however the effects of these probiotics and an antibiotic on ecological networks within intestinal microbiota have not been reported previously.to the best of our knowledge this is the first study to report the effects of probiotics p. marcusii db11 andcereus g19 and an antibiotics florfenicol on the intestinal microbiota homeostasis in aquatic animals by assessing modularity species-species interactions and their topological roles.

our results showed that intestinal microbiota homeostasis can be improved by the daily consumption of b. cereus g19 and p. marcusii db11 which affect intestinal microbiota homeostasis through modulation of ecological network by improving modularity enhancing species-species interactions and increasing the number of gener- alists rather than fundamentally changing its composition.

the daily consumption of p. marcusii db11 and b. cereus g19 considerably increased the number of generalists within the ecological networks and it made them more stable which suggested that p. marcusii db11 and b. cereus g19 may promote the homeostasis of intestinal microbiota in sea cucumber.

therefore our results suggest that the dominant genera in intestinal microbial community perform important roles in the ecological network.in contrast the use of antibiotics is considered the strongest and most common cause of disturbance of the intestinal microbiota and here we showed that the dietary supplementation with florfenicol considerably decreased the proportion of flavobacteriia and caused the extinction of connectors and module hubs in the ecological network.

as shown here each treatment had its unique ecological network model with charac- teristic modules but the composition of ecological networks was shown to be similar to intestinal microflora which indicates that the dominant microflora plays an important role in the ecological network.

and b. cereus g19 significantly improved the fold and microvillus height of mid-intestine in sea cucumber compare tofigure 3. the ecological network of the intestinal microbiota in sea cucumber.

dietary supplementation with b. cereus g19 p. marcusii db11 and florfenicol significantly affected the ecological network within the intestinal microbiota observed in terms of the average path distance gd average clustering coefficient avgcc and modularity.

both weighted and unweighted unifrac analysis showed that the bacterial communities in the pm g19 and fl group had different characteristic bacterial communities compared to control group indicating great regulating effects of p. marcusii db11 b. cereus g19 and florfenicol on the intestinal microbiota structure in sea cucumber.modularity analysis.

in this study the administration of p. marcusii db11 pm b. cereus g19 g19 and florfenicol fl was shown to affect intestinal microbial community with an obvious decrease in the percentage of flavobacteriia classified as flavobacteriaceae in this study in sea cucumber intestines while core microbiota remained the same as in the control group.

the dominant classes in control and pm group were flavobacteriia 49 and 29 respectively gammaproteobacteria 18 and 21 respectively and alphaproteobacteria 16 and 21 respectively furthermore the percentage of verrucomicrobiae in the pm group is 14 g19 group was enriched with classes of alphaproteobacteria 36 gammaproteobacteria 21 flavobacteriia 15 and anaerolineae 10 fl group was enriched with classes of gammaproteobacteria 27 alphaproteobacteria 23 flavobacteriia 21 and verrucomicrobiae 12. dietary supplementation of p. marcusii bd11 b. cereus g19 and florfenicol obviously decreased the relative abundance of flavobacteria classified as flavobacteriaceae in this study concurrent with obvious increase in verrucomicrobia classified as verrucomicrobiae in pm group alphaproteobacteria and anaerolineae classified as rhodobacteraceae and ardenscatena respectively in g19 group and gammaproteobacteria alphaproteobacteria and verrucomicrobia classified as vibrionaceae rhodobacteraceae and verrucomicrobiaceae respectively in fl group respectively.

currently there is no systematic study addressing the effects of antibiotics or probiotics on intes- tinal microbiota homeostasis and no standard for the evaluation of intestinal microbiota homeostasis has been developed.sea cucumber represent one of the most economically important holothurian species in china.

however sea cucumber shared the same core intestinal microbiota such as flavobacteriaceae rhodobacteraceae and vibrionaceae and their total relative abundance in four group were 60 see supplementary table .in order to test whether any difference was present in organismal structure of intestinal microbiota principalcoordinates analysis pcoa was performed based on the weighted and unweighted unifrac distances for thefigure 1. relative abundance of different bacterial classes above a cutoff value of 0.6 and principal coordinates analysis pcoa of the intestine microbial communities.evaluation of the community composition fig.

extinction of key species such as generalists may lead to the fragmentation of an entire module and the use of florfenicol disrupted sub-modules leading to the deterioration of the entire network and disturbing the intestinal microbiota homeostasis.it is well known that the members of intestinal microbial community partake in numerous important physio- logical nutritional immunologic and metabolic processes supporting the idea that intestinal microbiota repre- sent an external organ .

accordingly maintaining the homeostasis of intestinal microbiota can be beneficial for the host health while the disturbance in the intestinal microbiota homeostasis has negative effects.

openreceived 11 january 2017accepted 26 may 2017 published xx xx xxxxmolecular ecological network analysis reveals the effects of probiotics and florfenicol on intestinal microbiota homeostasis an example of sea cucumbergangyang12 mo peng3 xiangli tian1  shuanglin dong1animal gut harbors diverse microbes that play crucial roles in the nutrition uptake metabolism and the regulation of host immune responses.

