glucose tolerance tests were used to determine glycemia 15 min after glucose injection t15 cumulative glycemia cg cumulative glycemia above baseline dg the disappearance rate of glucose from blood in minutes k15to30 and k15to75ins insulin secretion 15 30 and 75 min after glucose injection i15 i30 and i75 respectively cumulative insulinemia ci cumulative insulinemia above baseline di and the ratio of cumulative glycemia to cumulative insulinemia icumg.

we best exemplify the influence of microbial-host co-metabolites through trimethyl- amine-n-oxide tmao a phase 1 oxidation product of gut136 cell reports 20 136-148 july 5 2017 a 2017 the authors.this is an open access article under the cc by license .abfigure 1. hfd induces phenotypic heterogeneity in an isogenic population of 50 c57bl6j mice within 3 weekshfd feeding caused segregation of physiological phenotypes for diabetes cumulative glycemia and obesity bw and thresholds on cumulative glycemia and bw stratify the population into three disease sub-phenotypes lean normoglycemic lng lean impaired glucose tolerance l-igt and obese impaired glucose tolerance ob-igt.short-term 3 weeks hfd feeding generates heterogeneous phenotypes for bw and glucose tolerance in c57bl6j male mice.

given that tmao was also shown to reduce er stress in b cells   we then tested the role of tmao on glucose toler- ance and insulin secretion in vivo in mice and in vitro in isolated islets.tmao improves glucose homeostasis and insulin secretion in vivoto assess potential therapeutic effects of tmao in vivo we carried out glucose tolerance and insulin secretion tests in chd- and hfd-fed mice treated by chronic subcutaneousfigure 3. pre-intervention metabotypes predict disease outcome and phenotypic heterogeneitypre-intervention day 0 urinary 1h-nmr-based metabolic profiles predict disease outcome day 20 after a 3-week hfd challenge.model goodness-of-fit r2 and goodness-of-prediction q2 parameters are significantly different from those expected by chance in a permutation test empirical p value derived from 10000 iterations.receiver-operating characteristic roc curves demonstrate efficient prediction of future disease outcomes.heatmap of significant metabolic predictors of disease and quantitative phenotype outcomes present complex yet structured patterns see table s1 for assignments.

infigure 5. tmao partially improves glucose tolerance on hfd through increased insulin secretionplasma glucose profile during ip-gtt.cumulative glycemia auc.plasma insulin profile during ip-gtt.cumulative insulinemia auc.weekly bw monitoring.primary pancreatic islet insulin secretion.glycemia and insulinemia were determined following an injection of glucose 2 gkg bw in control or hfd-fed mice treated by tmao or nacl for 5 weeks n  5 per group.

islets were then incubated in 2.8 mm glucose to measure basal insulin production and subsequently in 16.7 mm glucose to measure glucose stimulated insulin secretion.er stresser stress was assessed in 3t3-l1 adipocytes after 7 days of differentiation upon er stress stimulation by 50 ngml tunicamycin and rescued by 10 mm pba or 10 mm tmao.

articlemicrobial-host co-metabolites are prodromal markers predicting phenotypic heterogeneity in behavior obesity and impaired glucose tolerancegraphical abstracthighlightsd high-fat diet drives phenotypic heterogeneity in metabolism and behaviord microbial metabolites including methylamines predict phenotypic heterogeneityd tmao attenuates er stress and reduces lipogenesis in adipocytesd tmao improves insulin secretion and restores glucose tolerance in vivoauthorsmarc-emmanuel dumasalice r. rothwell lesley hoyles ... james scott jeremy k. nicholson dominique gauguiercorrespondence m.-e.d.

hfd-fed mice became divergent from chd-fed mice for igt as- sessed by intraperitoneal glucose tolerance tests ip-gtts and body weight phenotypes with strong and permanent heteroge- neity in glucose tolerance and body weight figures s1a-s1c.

applying a threshold of 2 sd above the mean of cumulative glycemia and bw defined three disease sub-groups of extreme responders to hfd feeding lean with impaired glucose tolerance l-igt obese with impaired glucose tolerance ob-igt and non-responder lean normoglycemic lng a. as expected fasting gly- cemia in lng mice 5.22 - 0.35 mm was not different from that of chd-fed controls 6.14 - 0.11 mm.

bw body weight bmi body mass index fg fasting glycemia fi fasting insulinemia auc area under the curve during the intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test ip-gtt epd epididymal fat pad edpratio epd weight to bw ratio rfp retroperitoneal fat pad rfpratio rfp weight to bw ratio l lean ob obese igt impaired glucose tolerance of open field dig.energy digestible energy food.calc food intake akiv alpha-keto-isovalerate baib beta-aminoisobutyrate akg 2-oxoglutarate dmg n-n-dimethylglycine.

hfd feeding resulted in sig- nificant elevation of fasting glycemia and insulinemia glucose intolerance enhanced insulin secretion induced by glucose and increased bw after 7 weeks when compared to chd-fed mice.

tmao infusion had no effect on glucose homeostasis in- sulin secretion or bw in chd-fed mice e. in contrast glucose tolerance a and 5b was partially restored by chronic 6-week tmao treatment in hfd-fed mice as indicated by significant reduction of glycemia during the ip-gtt  a and cumulative glycemia during the test b in tmao-treated mice when compared to saline-treated controls.

improved glucose tolerance in tmao-treated hfd-fed mice was associated with further significant enhancement of insulinsecretion response to glucose by tmao in these mice  c and 5d.

similarly tmao corrects er stress and xbp1 splicing induced by cytokines and palmitate in b cells .tmao infusion improves glucose homeostasis but not obesity in miceseveral conflicting studies exist about tmao's role on glucose homeostasis.

in particular tmao corrects endoplasmic reticulum stress and glucose tolerance.accession numberse-mtab-2569dumas et al.

cell reportsarticlemicrobial-host co-metabolites are prodromal markers predicting phenotypic heterogeneity in behavior obesity and impaired glucose tolerancemarc-emmanuel dumasalice r. rothwelllesley hoylesthomas araniasjulien chillouxsophie calderari elisa m. nollnoe' mie pe' anclaire l. boulange' christine blancherrichard h. bartonquan gujane f. fearnside chloe' deshayeschristophe huejames scottjeremy k. nicholsonand dominique gauguier1division of computational and systems medicine department of surgery and cancer faculty of medicine imperial college london sir alexander fleming building exhibition road south kensington london sw7 2az uk2wellcome trust centre for human genetics university of oxford roosevelt drive oxford ox3 7bn uk3cordeliers research centre inserm umrs 1138 university pierre  marie curie and university paris descartes sorbonne paris cite'  sorbonne universities 15 rue de l'e' cole de me' decine 75006 paris france4department of medicine imperial college london du cane road london w12 0nn uk5these authors contributed equally6senior author7lead contactcorrespondence m.-e.d.

