among the primer sets the second primer set showed higher efficiency than primer set 1. the efficiencies of primer set 1 and set 2 in pure culture were at 100. in fecal samples primer set1 showed 98.75 efficiency whereas primer set 2 showed 99.59 efficiency and in the gut samples primer set 1 showed 98.29 while primer set 2 showed 99.07 efficiency.

a pure culture with primer set 1 b simulated fecal sample with primer set 1 c simulated gut sample with primer set 1 d pure culture with primer set 2 e simulated fecal sample with primer set 2 and f simulated gut sample with primer set 2.any bacterial treatment in animal models with the use of species- specific primers for targeted bacterial quantification in gut samples.acknowledgmentsa portion of the work was supported by a grant from the department of defense w81xwh-10-1-0257.referencesc.

lanes 1 to 4 show bands of pcr amplified dna from p. histicola dsm-19854 1 and 2 and p. histicola mci001 3 and 4. lanes 5 to 8 show the bands of pcr amplified dna from p. melaninogenica dsm-7089 using a prevotella genus specific primer set b primer set 1 and c primer set 2. results are representative of three individual experiments.the type strain of p. histicola dsm-19854 was obtained from dsmz germany and p. melaninogenica atcc 25845 was acquired from atcc usa.

the rt-pcr reaction volume was kept at 25 ml comprising of 12.5 ml of master mix 1 ml of forward primer 1 mm 1 ml of reverse primer 1 mm 2 ml of template dna and 8.5 ml of pcr grade sterile water sigma.

a primer set 1 b primer set 2 lanes indicate1 p. buccae 2 p. denticola 3 p. multiformis 4 p. nigrescens 5p.

the two designed primer sets showed specificity for the target 16s rrna gene ofp.

the selected primer sequences were subjected to blast search to check similarity and specificity and only those matching with p. histicola were included into the study.

two primer sets that were specific for p. histicola in the in silico studies  were synthesized integrated dna technologies.

1. specificity of p. histicola primer sets.

to avoid cross-reactivity of the designed primers in pcr reaction we have validated the specificity of the p. histicola primer sets with phylo- genetically closely related species.

in addi- tion ten different prevotella species and 12 other anaerobic bac- terial species regarded as gut commensals were used to demonstrate primer specificity .

the two designed primer sets only amplified target dna sequences from the p. histicola isolate and did not amplify any of the closely related species .

also a prevotella genus specific primer set was used to validate the re- sults it amplified all prevotella species included in this study data not shown.

2. specificity of the primer sets validated with related anaerobes.

ott m. musfeldt u. ullmann j. hampe s. schreiber quantification of intestinal bacterial populations by real-time pcr with a universal primer set and minor groove binder probes a global approach to the enteric flora j. clin.microbiol.

