these cytokines are all capable of influen- cing tumor progression through multiple mechanisms including the promotion of tumor growth through the recruitment of suppressive immune cells into the tumor microenvironment via tnfa il-6 il-1b or facilitating enhanced tumor immune surveillance via ifng and il-17.

these contrasting findings may depend on several factors including the an- tigenicity of the tumor the timing of the flagellin stimulus  the cytokine and immune composition of the tumor microenvironment and perhaps even the stage of tumor initiation or progression.two additional bacterial components peptidoglycan and poly- saccharide a psa affect systemic inflammation through the ligation of tlr2.

these innate re- cognition receptors may serve a protective role in breast tissue as tlr5 signaling and activation of maip1s has been shown to inhibit breast tumor growth through the induction of autophagy and tumor cell death .

butyrate directly inhibits the growth of multiple tumor types through inhibition of histone deacetylases and potent anti-in- flammatory activity  suggesting that dietary intervention through consumption of fiber-rich foods could provide therapeutic benefitduring tumor progression.

although most studies have focused upon the role of nod re- ceptors in modulating intestinal malignancies a study using nod-de- ficient breast tumor cell lines demonstrated that breast tumors lacking nod were more resistant to tnfa-induced apoptosis and were more sensitive to estrogen-mediated tumor growth .

this demonstrates that hormones directly impact both tumor growth and immune function.additional bacterial metabolites have potential roles in promotingsystemic inflammation and tumor progression.

thus it will be critical to understand the relevant contexts in which commensal mi- crobes and the activation of relevant signaling pathways influence tumor progression and anti-tumor immunity.commensal disequilibrium results in a range of pathologies and inthe context of cancer can have a direct influence on tumor proliferation and cytokine secretion .

the role of commensal microbes during cancer is dependent upon many factors demonstrating that a more comprehensive under- standing of the effects that individual microbes have on tumor growth and immune function within the tumor microenvironment is needed.

for patients with extramucosal cancers or cancers occurring distal to barrier surfaces the role of commensal mi- crobes in influencing tumor progression is beginning to be appreciated.

thus it is evident that the mechanisms associated with commensal microbe facilitation of both pro- and anti-tumor immune responses are context dependent and rely upon a variety of factors present within the tumor microenvironment and sys- temic periphery.

the goal of this review is to highlight the various contexts during which commensal microbes orchestrate systemic immune function with a focus on describing possible scenarios where the loss of microbial homeostasis enhances tumor progression.introductioncommensal microbes comprised of bacteria archaea viruses and eukaryotes inhabit all mucosal barrier surfaces providing a physical barrier in defense against invading pathogens.

in this context alterations to commensal equilibrium induce pathological inflammation that is supportive of tumor growth.

these studies underscore the complex immunoregulatory influence that commensal microbes have on local and systemic immune homeostasis in healthy individuals.cancer is a systemic disease inflammatory immune cells chemo- kines and cytokines distally influence tumor growth and metastatic progression.

cancer can impact the composition of commensal mi- crobes locally within affected tissues or distally within the intestines  altering the immune environment in favor of tumor growth and global immune suppression .

dysbiosis can be induced by multiple me- chanisms including diet or genetic-induced dysbiosis antibiotic- induced dysbiosis and dysbiosis due to tumor-promoting chronic in- flammation all of which associate with a more unfavorable outcome during cancer.inflammation dysbiosis and cancerthere are several studies linking dysbiosis with cancer and in- flammation although it remains relatively undefined whether dysbiosis directly impacts tumor progression or serves as a biomarker of onco- genesis.

