Women who were positive for HIV and had persistent M. hominis had threefold increase in the odds of having persistent hrHPV infection OR 3.28 95 CI 1.31-8.74 p 0.008 compared to women who were negative for both.conclusion We found significant association between persistent M. hominis in the vaginal microbiota and persistent hrHPV in this study but we could not rule out reverse causation.

genitalium Mycoplasma hominis and hrHPV infections  or significant associations between M. genitalium M. hominis and hrHPV infections .

hominis in the vaginal microbiota.At baseline 72 139194 of the women were positive for HIV 30 43142 for M. genitalium 45 87194 for M. hominis and 40 77194 for hrHPV.

hominis positivity and prevalent hrHPV OR 5.53 95 CI 1.08-55.2 p 0.03 compared to HIV and prevalent M. hominis negative women.

Similarly there was significant association between HIV and persistent M. hominis positivity and persis- tent hrHPV infections OR 3.28 95 CI 1.31-8.74 p 0.008 compared to HIV and persistent M. hominis negative women.

Several bacteria particularly those capable of establishing persistent infections can alter host cell cycles affect apoptotic pathways and stimulate the production of inflamma- tory substances linked to DNA damage thus potentially promote abnormal cell growth .TaBle 6  Association between sociodemographic characteristics and potential risk factors for Mycoplasma hominis.Table shows exact odds ratios ORs and 95 confidence intervals CIs based on logistic regression models n  number of women.TaBle 7  Multivariate association between M. genitalium and M. hominis and high-risk human papillomavirus hrHPV infections.Table shows odds ratios ORs and 95 confidence intervals CIs for women with prevalent or persistent M. genitalium and M. hominis compared to women who were negative.

However other indicators of risky sexual behav- ior including earlier age at sexual initiation and number of life- time sexual partners were not associated between M. genitalium and M. hominis and either vaginal M. genitalium or M. hominis in this study.

Because we evaluated M. genitalium and M. hominis and hrHPV infections at the same time we are unable to rule out reverse causation.Inconclusion ourstudyshowssignificantassociationsbetween persistent M. hominis in the vaginal microbiota and persistent hrHPV infections.

 12 34 Davide Zella 5 6 34 1256 and ACCME Research Group61 Department of Epidemiology and Public Health University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore MD United States 2 University of Maryland Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore MD United States 3 Institute for Genome Sciences University of Maryland Baltimore MD United States 4 Department of Microbiology and Immunology University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore MD United States 5 Institute of Human Virology University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore MD United States 6 Institute of Research Virology Nigeria Abuja NigeriaEdited by Alexandre Morrot Federal University of Rio de Janeiro BrazilReviewed by Debora Decote-Ricardo Universidade Federal Rural doRio de Janeiro Brazil Juliana De MeisOswaldo Cruz Foundation BrazilCorrespondence Sally N. Adebamowo Specialty section This article was submitted to Infectious Diseases - Surveillance Prevention and Treatmenta section of the journal Frontiers in Public HealthReceived 06 March 2017Accepted 06 June 2017Published 26 June 2017Citation Adebamowo SN Ma B Zella D Famooto A Ravel J Adebamowo C and ACCME Research Group 2017Mycoplasma hominis and Mycoplasma genitalium in the Vaginal Microbiota and Persistent High-Risk Human Papillomavirus Infection.Front.

in the vaginal microbiota and prevalent as well as persistent hrHPV infections.Methods We examined 194 Nigerian women who were tested for hrHPV infection using SPF25LiPA10 and we identified Mycoplasma genitalium and Mycoplasma hominis in their vaginal microbiota established by sequencing the V3-V4 hypervariable regions of the 16S rRNA gene.

