taxonomic assignment indicated that the genus blautia was prevalent in all fecal samples with dominant species represented by blautia luti blautia producta blautia wexlerae blautia hanse- nii lachnoanaerobaculum orale dorea formicigenerans and ruminococcus gnavus as reported in .

in contrast few studies have assessed the presence and distribution of acetogenic bacteria in the human gastrointestinal tract.table 3  identification of bacteria belonging to the clostridium xiva group based on denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge profiles see also .16s rrna gene copiesgram of feces hydrogenotrophic micro- organisms and in particular acetogens seem to represent a notidentificationbandsaaccession numberabands are lettered as indicated on the dgge gel shown in .similaritynegligible fraction of the infant gut microbiota.the consistent recovery of hydrogenotrophic populations in all samples probably depended on the dna extraction method performed or primer pairs used for the qpcr analyses.

reported the presence of methanogens and srb respec- tively in 25 and 15 of fecal samples using previously describeda deep understanding of the diversity of bacteria inhabiting the infant gut microbiota is relevant for human gut ecology and future nourishment research.

this analysis produced dna bands that could not be identified at the species level although they were all assigned to the genus blautia data not shown.although the clostridium cluster xvia is a phylogenetic group that includes many butyrate producers and some acetogenic microorganisms considering the abundance of the genus blautia in our samples we attempted to improve the taxonomic clas- sification of the blautia species occurring in our stool samples by using pcr primers targeting the whole clostridium cluster xiva.

nat rev gastroenterol hepatol 2012 9577-89. dotouyama m jin js kibe r hayashi h benno y. quantification of blautia wexlerae and blautia luti in human faeces by real-time pcr using specific primers.

in infant fecal samples archaeal and srb levels are likely to fall below this cutoff and consequently result in no or reduced pcr product thereby not allowing the comprehensive profiling of gut microbiota.theaim ofthepresent study was toassess thepresence ofhydrog- enotrophic populations in the infant gut microbiota of 16 babies aged 1-6 months by means of qpcr and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge.

was not correlated with the delivery mode thus confirming the qpcr results.discussionhydrogenotrophic populations are present in the infant intestinal ecosystem but their detection in infant fecal samples is hampered by their low relative abundance and by experimental limitations related to the recovery of purified high-quality dna from infant fecal samples.

to date acetogenic bacteria in infant fecal specimens have not been investigated.archaeal and bacterial diversity can be characterized using the previously described 515f806r primer set targeting the v4 region of the 16s rrna gene .

the major result of our study was that all infants harbored detectable levels of methanogens aceto- gens and srb as evaluated using specific qpcr for the 16s rrna gene or the functional metabolic genes mcra acsb fhs dsra and aps.

all qpcr assays were performed in the steponeplustm real-time pcr system applied biosystemsjapan tokyo japan by using the kapa sybrr fast qpcr kitmaster mix 2x biolab scientifics instruments sa switzerland or the kapa prober fast qpcr kit master mix 2x biolab scientifics instruments sa switzerland.

sulfate-reducing bacteria srb acetogens and methanogenic archaea use hydrogenotrophic pathways within the human colon.

three major types of h2-consuming microorganisms colonize the human colon namely methanogenic archaea sulfate-reducing bacteria srb and ace- togens .

the ubiquity of dsr in all known srb microorganisms and its highly conserved nucleotide sequence make this gene suitable for evaluating the quantity and diversity of srb in the human gut .

no statisti- cally significant difference was found between experimental groups for any bacterial group tested.pcr-dgge analysis of acetogenic bacteria in the infant gutacetogens emerged as the dominant functional bacterial group among hydrogenotrophic microorganisms in the infant gut so we attempted to assess the composition of the acetogenic bacterial community through pcr-dgge analysis targeting the acsb gene.

additional qpcr reactions were carried out to quantify the blautia genus and the clostridium cluster xiva which also includes relevant acetogenic blautia spp  .

