the authors would like to thank stephen j. andersen and pieter naert for critically reading the manuscript.references.. ...........fi....................fi..fi.......... ................ .fi..... fl......... ..................................fi...................fi..... fifi.fl.flfi...........

process steering is mainly based on avoiding process failure by monitoring conventional parameters e.g.

the putative contributions of the crucial members in the community have to be determined through accurate experiments to engage efficient process steering .another important feature as mentioned before is the ability of the microbial community to maintain a well-balanced process resulting in the desired product outcome.

to ensure the efficiency of the process microorganisms channelling the overall process should be identi- fied and stimulated and unwanted microorganisms have to be suppressed or eliminated.the unified neutral theory of biodiversity and biogeographysuggests that communities are shaped by stochastic processes .

anaerobic digestion and activated sludge is crucial given their central role in the entire process to sustain the entire process chain.

in contrast the bottom-up approach makes use of synthetic cultures that can be composed starting from defined axenic cultures based on the requirements of the process under consideration.

of particular importance is the necessity to identify and characterise the key players in the process.

the transition from the current activated sludge system with nitrificationdenitrification for nitrogen removal to the adsorptions-belebungsverfahren ab process is such an example.

application of this technology in an austrian full-scale wastewater treatment plant resulted in an energy-positive system .the energy efficiency of microbial technologies depends to ahigh extent on careful monitoring and steering of the process.

to engage more direct steering of the microbial community bringing about these processes alternative monitoring and steer- ing strategies have to be developed in which high-throughput molecular technologies can play an important role.in this review the opportunities knowledge gaps and pitfalls with respect to direct process engineering of the microbiome are discussed.

these principles are briefly illustrated in an example of integrated microbiome engineering.the societal organisation of the microbiomea well-structured organisation of the microbiome is required to ensure that it provides the products andor services in the most efficient way to warrant continued process sustainability.

to proceed towards industrial application knowledge gaps need to be filled and key challenges have to be dealt with.the market economy of the microbiomeone of the crucial aspects to secure the efficiency of the process carried out by the microbiome is close physical interaction between partner microorganisms as is the case in many engineered ecosystems .

uncoupling of the acidogenesisacetogenesis and methanogens stage almost always results in process failure .

syntrophic interactions are central in the anaerobic digestion process.

in practice however the microbiome relies on cooperation competition and communica- tion which can be considered characteristics of the market economy to achieve a stable and efficient production process .microbial ecosystem services how can microbiomes assist in the abatement of climate changenovel microbiomes are an eternal enigma allowing ample opportunity to obtain a constant updating and amelioration of existing microbial processes to increase conversion rates use new substrates or generate new products.

