when we only considered the obese subgroup with nash a. muciniphila levels were significantly lower p0.037 and enterobacteriaceae levels and f. prausnitzii levels were significantly higher p0.0019 and p0.002 respectively when compared to the normal-weight healthy controls.fecal f. prausnitzii was found at higher levels as compared to other bacterial groups studied in both patients and controls 11.75 log10g feces.dominant lactobacillus and bifidobacterium speciesthe most abundant lactobacillus species was l. ruminis in both patients 44.6 and healthy controls 50.0. however l. reuteri which was the second-most dominant lactobacillus member in the patient group 21.4 was not observed in healthy controls table 4. healthy microbiota contains l. sakei and l. helveticus which were not seen in patients with nash.

there are controversial results regarding bacteroidetes levels in nafld 918. however the majority of the reports have indicated that bacteroidetes is closely related with the obesity-associated microbiota along with firmicutes 41519. the results of the present study and the previous data in the literature suggest that b. fragilis levels are more likely to be related with the bmi status than with hepatic pathology 152021. thus our study suggests a bmi-independent association of a. muciniphila and enterobacteriaceae with nash phenotype.the degree of fibrosis in nafld was recently suggested to be considered in histopathological evaluation of nash 22. en- terobacteriaceae was significantly higher in patients with f2 fibrosis compared to f0-f1 suggesting a strong relationship between enterobacteriaceae levels and liver pathology.f.

according to our present results and the literature we suggest that the relative abundances of lactobacillus and bifidobacterium species in the gut microbiota should be considered before using probiotic treatments.to demonstrate the inflammation levels in patients with nash we also determined the serum il-6 and tnf-a levels which show conflicting results in the literature as inflammation mark- ers in patients with liver injury 33. in our study cohort we found higher levels of tnf-a in serum samples of the patientshowever the difference compared to healthy controls was not significant.

blood samples were drawn for rou-tine biochemical tests and also for circulating inflammatory cy- tokines endotoxin levels and high-sensitivity c-reactive protein hs-crp levels.

however the serum hs-crp level which is a well-known inflammatory marker was significantly higher in patients with nash 0.37-0.44 vs. 0.12-0.12 mgdl p0.001 figure 2. se-rum endotoxin levels were also significantly higher in nash patients when compared to controls 9.05-11.73 euml vs. 2.75-1.31 euml p0.001 figure 2.all of the samples were studied in duplicate and the intra-assay cv was less than 10 for all assays tnf-a 5.3 and 7.8 il-6 4.6 and 3.8 hs-crp 9.8 and 3.4 and endotoxin 2.6 and 9.6 for patients and controls respectively.discussionin the present study we showed that the nash patients had significantly lower a. muciniphila and higher enterobacteria- ceae as well as elevated serum endotoxin and hs-crp levels compared to healthy controls.

the obese microbiome is known to have an increased capacity of energy harvest from food which leads to fat accumulation 4. it has been shown that the firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio is sig- nificantly higher in obese patients 415. increased f. prausnitzii levels have been shown to be significantly related with obesity in children 26. despite its beneficial health features f. prausnit- zii is also responsible for increased energy intake like the other members of the firmicutes group 426.we found lower levels of a. muciniphila in patients with nash.a.

in our study population we also demonstrated higher circulating endotox- in levels in the patient group along with lower a. muciniphila levels suggesting the role of this bacterium in maintaining the gut barrier function.

consistent with the in- creased enterobacteriaceae levels in nash patients higher serum endotoxin levels were also shown in those patients as expected.

this finding supports the possible underlying mech- anism of nash with respect to the increased gut permeability which accelerates the bacterial translocation that is likely to be caused by reduced a. muciniphila levels and increased entero- bacteriaceae levels.

moreover we also showed elevated circulating endotoxin levels in the patient group and higher hs-crp levels indicating inflammation which supports the possibly increased gut bacterial translocation in nash patients.further studies with metagenomic approaches on nash pa- tients might shed light on the exact effect of the microbiota.

turk j gastroenterol 2017 28 361-9determination of certain bacterial groups in gut microbiota and endotoxin levels in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitisceren ozkul1 meltem yalinay2 tarkan karakan3 guldal yilmaz41department of pharmaceutical microbiology hacettepe university school of pharmacy ankara turkey2department of clinical microbiology gazi university school of medicine ankara turkey 3department of gastroenterology gazi university school of medicine ankara turkey 4department of pathology gazi university school of medicine ankara turkeyintroductionnonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld includes a spectrum of hepatic pathology ranging from simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis nash and fibrosis 1. the exact mechanism of the disease is not well characterized and no treatment strategy has proven effective to improve nafld prognosis 2. stud- ies on the identification of the mechanisms underlying the disease particularly involving the microbiota might shed light on both nafld pathogenesis and new ther- apeutic targets.the effect of the gut microbiota on both health and the pathogenesis of multiple diseases is becoming an in- creasingly important issue.

there is increasing evidence that nafld pathol- ogy is due to the acute phase response primarily caused by bacterial endotoxins 679. this endotoxin translocation across the intestinal barrier is likely to be caused by dysbiosis which refers to microbial imbalance and subsequent disruption of gut barrier function due to alterations of the gut microbiota.the aim of our study was to reveal the quantitative differences of certain bacterial species in fecal microbiota in patients with bi- opsy-proven nash a subgroup of nafld and healthy controls as well as to determine endotoxin levels and the inflammation status of these patients.

hs-crp levels were determined by the nephelometric method using cardiophase hs-crp sie- mens healthcare diagnostics marburg germany.endotoxin analysisa commercially available limulus amebocyte lysate lal chro- mogenic quantification assay pierce lal chromogenic endo- toxin quantitation kit pierce biotechnology rockford il was used to determine the bacterial endotoxin concentration in the serum samples.

the demographic and lab-figure 1. comparison of log10g feces levels of bacterial groups between patients with nafld and healthy controlsnafld nonalcoholic fatty liver diseaseoratory data are shown in table 2. the histopathological fea- tures of nash steatosis ballooning and lobular inflammation are presented in table 3. nash patients had higher bmi and waist circumference when compared to the healthy controls as was expected.

in terms of laboratory data significantly elevat- ed alanine transaminase aspartate aminotransferase and alka- line phosphatase levels were observed in the patient group.

