lactis b. lactis ncc2818 cncm i-3446 previously documented for its probiotic properties in human infants- on the intestinal microbiota metabolism and mucosal immune system when supplemented from birth.

here we provide further evidence that b. lactis ncc2818 is able to reinforce intestinal barrier integrity in the first days of life irrespective of the starting status.although b. lactis ncc2818 had no discernible effects on the composition of the microbiota at the family level it did affect the urinary host-microbial metabolic profile e.g.

it is important to note that these families constitute normal commensal intestinal bacteria and their presence or absence is not a biomarker of disease but instead the link is to their relative abundance and possibly their activity.in summary our results demonstrate that supplementation with b. lactis ncc2818 from 1 day old improved intestinal barrier function and had significant effects on the development of the mucosal immune system and metabolic function.

in humans administration of b. lactis ncc2818 to newborn infants was shown to promote immune developmentand response to vacci- nationwhilst in preterm infants b. lactis ncc2818 was shown to decrease intestinal permeability.

the dynamic evolution of the intestinal ecosystem in the early-life stages may represent a window of opportunity to influence the development of the microbiota and therefore the immune and metabolic systems through the administration of specific bacterial strains.although current literature links the immune system metabolism and the intestinal microbiota- the molecular interactions and pathways involved in this cross-talk are complex and poorly characterized.

immunity intestinal barrier function host metabolism and host-microbiota co-metabolism were further modified by bifidobacterium lactis ncc2818 supplementation although composition of the in situ microbiota remained unchanged.

finally irrespective of batch and probiotic treatment robust links between mucosal immu- nological parameters and the urinary metabolic profile are demonstrated by the correlations we observed in this model these associations raise the possibility that accessible metabolic profiling may provide valuable biomarkers to assess previously inaccessible parameters including the function of the microbiota and associated intestinal immune system in future clinical trials.figure 7. animal trial schematic representation of the experimental setup depicts batch 1 n 6 batch 2 n 6 treatment supplemented with b. lactis ncc2818 from 1 day old n 6 and untreated groups nob.

these included positive corre- lations between colonic il-10 synthesis and urinary metabolites associated with methyl donation sarcosine betaine and trimethylamine p  0.01 and between malonate associated with the tca cycle and colonic igm p  0.008. interestingly this analysis also identified significant negative correlations between methyl donation-associated metabolites and caecal il-4 p  0.02 and igm p  0.03. further metabolites linked to the intestinal microbiota were significantly correlated with immune parameters consistent with the microbiota influencing immune development hippurate was negatively correlated with caecal il-4 p  0.02 while pag was positively correlated with colonic igm p  0.008. the unprocessed igm data are available as supplementary fig.

serum from piglets in batch 2 contained significantly higher levels of these inflammation-associated metabolites and although we cannot be sure of intestinal permeability at this time point later measurements of epithelial cell-cell adhesion molecules demonstrated reduced intestinal barrier function in these piglets and it is possible that these two findings are linked.

however several studies have linked reduced intestinal coloni- sation by members of the ruminococcaceae family to chronic intestinal disorders such as ibd in humans-.

openreceived 16 february 2017accepted 31 may 2017 published xx xx xxxxearly intervention with bifidobacterium lactis ncc2818 modulates the host-microbe interface independent of the sustained changes induced by the neonatal environmentmarie c. lewis1 claire a. merrifield2 bernard berger3 olivier cloarec4 swantje duncker3 annick mercenier3 jeremy k. nicholson2 elaine holmes2  mick bailey5inflammatory and metabolic diseases can originate during early-life and have been correlated with shifts in intestinal microbial ecology.

finally we identify immune-metabolic correlations with the aim of exploring potential novel surrogate bio-markers in this tractable model species.resultsearly b. lactis ncc2818 administration ameliorates inter-batch differences in intestinal barrier integrity.

writing in bold to the left denotes putative metabolic pathway involvement n 12.discussionsupplementation with b. lactis ncc2818 from the first day of life had significant effects on intestinal barrier function development of the mucosal immune system and metabolic function in these outbred piglets.

the observation that the overall effects of probiotic supplementation appear robustly sus- tained across all domains even in the presence of a significant additional effect of experimental batch is an encouraging finding.the influence of supplementation with b. lactis ncc2818 on intestinal barrier function was apparent in two separate platforms.

nevertheless the physiological effects of very early supplementation with b. lactis ncc2818 were consistent across both batches and therefore in the longer term could offer the potential to improve outcomes for 'at-risk' infants which have undergone early-life events linked to aberrant patterns of intestinal colonisation for example caesarean birth or antibiotic therapy.

