in anti-mog myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein t cell receptor transgenic mice that de- velop spontaneous eae the expansion of myelin reactive th17 cells was detected in t cells residing in the intestinal wall lamina propria t cells and in peyer's patches but not in peripheral organs such as spleen and lymph nodes 4. our observation that increased th17 cell frequency is present in the small intestinal mucosa but not in peripheral blood of rrms patients further underlies the similarities between pathogenic th17 cell differentiation in humans and in animal models of ms.the acquisition of an il-22 phenotype by th17 cells increased their effector function and proinflammatory properties 26 27 and a recent study demonstrated that the presence of il-22 th17 cells correlates with high disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis patients 28. our data show that rrmseda patients with active disease also have an increased percentage of double-positive il-22 th17 cells.

we administered a dietary questionnaire to our rrms patients and hc group although we did not detect relevant differ- ences in the salt intake between patients and controls we cannot rule out the possibility that the quantity of dietary salt influences th17 cell differ- entiation in rrms patients.although modifications of the dietary habits have been held responsible for the marked spike in incidence of autoimmune diseases the so-called autoimmune epidemic that has occurred in the last half-century 40 41 it is yet to be clarified how diet modulates autoimmune diseases such as ms 42. dietary factors can affect brain autoimmunity by favoring th17 cell differentiation in the intestine acting directly on myelin-reactive t cells 38 39 or through microbiota modifications 4. our results show that increased th17 cell frequency and microbiota modifications are not present in all rrms patients but only in those patients with active disease.

1. neda no evidence of disease activity is a new concept related to the absence of disease activity in the context of ms that takes into account the following clinical and neuroradiological parameters clinical relapses disability progression and active lesions evaluated by mri 17. our rrms patients were classified into two subgroups on the basis of the presence or absence of disease activity at a 2-year follow-up patients with no evidence of disease activity rrmsneda n  9 and patients with evidence of disease activity rrmseda n  10.gut mucosal immunity in msour multiparametric facs analysis revealed a statistically significant increase in the frequencies of intestinal cd4 t cells in rrms patients compared to those in hcs p  0.01 whereas the frequency of total cd3 t cells and that of cd8 t cells were comparable between the two groups fig.

mucosal immune cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells pbmcs were facs-analyzed for immunological profiling of the following th cell subsets il-17acd4 th17 cells ifn-gcd4 th1 cells and il-22 th22 cells.

the num- ber of total cells isolated from intestinal tissue samples ranged from0.5 x 106 to 3.7 x 106 with a number of t cells from 1 x 105 to 11 x 105 that were comparable between rrms patients 5.7 x 105 - 0.8 x 105 and hc 5.2 x 105 - 0.7 x 105. pbmcs were isolated by ficoll gradient and washed in complete rpmi 10. intestinal cells and pbmcs were as- sessed for viability by fixable viability dye efluor 506 ebioscience and stained with apc-cy7 allophycocyanin-cy7-conjugated anti- human cd3 clone sp34-2 bd biosciences pe phycoerythrintexas red-conjugated anti-human cd4 clone s3.5 thermo fisher and alexa fluor 700-conjugated anti-human cd8 clone okt8 ebioscience monoclonal antibodies.

these results further suggest that increased differentiation and acquisition of a strong effector phenotype by th17 cells in the small intestine correlate with disease activity in rrms patients.th17 cell differentiation in the small intestine is regulated by the whole microbial community composition and also by some specific bacteria 29 30. in rodents a single bacterial type the sfb is sufficient to drive the accumulation of th17 cells in the small intestinal lamina propria 8 9. studies in transgenic models of autoimmune arthritis 31 and eae 10 demonstrated that sfb play a key role in the activation and expansion of self-reactive th17 cells in the small intestine.

our data show that in rrms patients there is a selective expansion of effector th17 cells in the small intestinal mu- cosa that is linked with specific microbiota modifications.resultsstudy design small intestinal tissue and peripheral blood samples were collected from 36 individuals including 19 rrms patients and 17 hc subjects details of the study population are illustrated in table 1. total lymphocytes were freshly isolated from intestinal tissue collected during esopha- gogastroduodenoscopy egd and from peripheral blood stained with fluorescent monoclonal antibodies against surface markers andfig.

in mice activation of effector th17 cells occurs mostly in the small intestine 8 9 and acquisition of a th17 cell phenotype by myelin-reactive t cells at the intestinal level enhances their pathogenic- ity and capacity to trigger brain autoimmunity 4 10 11. commensal microbes residing in the small intestine such as the segmented filamen- tous bacteria sfb induce brain autoimmunity in mice by selectively promoting th17 cell differentiation 10. in humans previous studies identified alterations of the microbiota composition in fecal samples of rrms patients 12-16 however it is still unclear how these modifica- tions impinge on the immune system.

disease activity in rrms is correlated with periodic activation of myelin- specific t cells but the mechanisms that regulate the aggressiveness of those self-reactive t cells are still largely unknown.t helper 17 th17 cells are key players in ms pathogenesis and acquisition of interleukin-17 il-17-secreting phenotype by myelin- specific t cells enhances their pathogenicity.

the higher frequency of th17 cells in rrms patients was detected in the small intestinal mucosa but not in the peripheral blood where th17 cells were poorly represented in both rrms patients and hcs fig.

for example prevotella is capable of producing the anti- inflammatory metabolite propionate 36 that limits intestinal th17 cell expansion in mice 37. so far three of five studies that analyzed micro- biome composition in rrms patients from different geographical areas japan and united states founda reduction in the relative abundance of prevotella strains in ms patients compared to hc subjects 13 14 16. we confirmed these findings in our italian cohort of rrms patients and also found that the prevotella decrease is selectively present in rrms pa- tients with active disease.

for ex- ample ifn-b was reported to play a beneficial anti-inflammatory role in the murine intestine 18 19 whereas ga can influence the micro- biota profile in treated ms patients 12. here we demonstrate that the percentage of intestinal th17 cells was particularly high in the ga-treated group that contained a high number of rrmseda patients with active disease 5 out of 9. this finding further supports the notion that the percentage of intestinal th17 cells correlates with disease activity in rrms patients.

al- though further investigation is needed to formally demonstrate that the th17 cells residing in the small intestine of rrms patients are myelin- specific the selective th17 cell expansion in rrmseda patients with disease activity suggests that similar to what is observed in mice with eae the gut environment enhances pathogenicity of self-reactive t cells by driving them toward a th17 cell phenotype.

the increase was limited exclu- sively to the th17 cell subset and the frequencies of other effector th cell subsets such as th1 cells and th22 cells were comparable between the rrms and hc groups fig.

commen- sal microbiota playa crucial role in modulating intestinal th17 cell ex- pansion and in eae the animal model of ms gut colonization with sfb promotes brain autoimmunity by increasing intestinal th17 cell differentiation 10. hence we determined whether enhanced th17 celldifferentiation in the small intestine of rrms patients is linked with alterations in microbiota composition.

