microbiome analysis of respiratory secretions was performed in 3 samples collected in 2014-2015. clinical deterioration overlapped with cystic fibrosis-related diabetes and microbiome composition revealed no significant differences when compared microbiome results to culture dependent methods.keywords burkholderia vietnamiensis burkholderia cepacia complex cystic fibrosis microbiome chronic lung disease cystic fibrosis-related diabetes correspondence equal contributors1departamento de microbiologia imunologia e parasitologia faculdade de ciencias medicas universidade do estado do rio de janeiro rio de janeiro brazil5departamento de microbiologia imunologia e parasitologia faculdade deciencias medicas universidade do estado do rio de janeiro brazil av.

transient isolation of burkholderia multivorans and burkholderia cenocepacia from a brazilian cystic fibrosis patient chronically colonized with burkholderia vietnamiensis.

bmc pulmonary medicine 2017 17100doi 10.1186s12890-017-0442-2monitoring clinical and microbiological evolution of a cystic fibrosis patient over 26 years experience of a brazilian cf centrecassiana da costa ferreira leite1 tania wrobel folescu2 monica de cassia firmida3renata wrobel folescu cohen2 robson souza leao1 flavia alvim dutra de freitas4 rodolpho mattos albano4 claudia henrique da costa3 and elizabeth andrade marques15abstractbackground burkholderia cepacia complex is a group of opportunistic pathogens in cystic fibrosis cf patients believed to be associated with poor prognosis and patient-to-patient transmissibility.

in our case a cf patient chronically colonized with b. vietnamiensis remained in stable conditions for over than 16 years with fev1 and fvc annual rate of decline within the expected range and experienced significant clinical deterioration in the last 3 years he presented hemoptysis lung function de- cline and more exacerbations despite regular prescription of maintenance therapy.for cf lung disease risk factors associated with fev1 decline include but are not limited to young age high lung function female gender modifier genes pancreatic insufficiency poor nutritional status viral respiratory in- fections colonization with p. aeruginosa and bcc and diabetes mellitus mean rate of fev1 predicted de- cline in cf patients chronically colonized with bcc was significantly higher than expected in all ages al- though there was no correlation to bcc species.

clinical outcome of burkholderia cepacia complex in cystic fibrosis adults.

burkholderia cenocepacia and burkholderia multivorans influence on survival in cystic fibrosis.

burkholderia cepacia complex clinical course in cystic fibrosis patients.

clinical outcome after acquisition of burkholderia cepacia in patients with cystic fibrosis.

2001170128-31.correia s nascimento c pereira l cunha mv sa-correia i barreto c. the clinical course of burkholderia cepacia complex bacteria respiratory infection in cystic fibrosis patients.

in addition despite the small number of samples used for culture-independent analysis which limits our understand- ing of the lung microbiome of this patient there was a good agreement with sputum cultures that showed chronic colonization with bcc.abbreviationsbcc burkholderia cepacia complex bmi body mass index cf cystic fibrosis cfrd cf-related diabetes fev1 forced expiratory volume in 1 sfvc forced vital capacity hrct high-resolution computed tomography pcr polymerase chain reactionacknowledgementswe would like to thank erica santos for her help in microbiological analysis of respiratory secretions.availability of data and materialall data generated or analysed during this study are included in this published article.fundinggrants faperj-fundacao carlos chagas filho de amparo a pesquisa do estado do rio de janeiro-e-26110.7422013.authors' contributionstf em and ra conceived the study its design and coordination.

200459948-51.kalish la waltz da dovey m potter-bynoe g mcadam aj lipuma jj gerard c goldmann d. impact of burkholderia dolosa on lung function and survival in cystic fibrosis.

he required on average one hospital admission per year due to respiratory exacer- bation and during this period presented bmi16.9-18.1 with fev1  and fvc  annual rate of decline of 1.61 and 1.35 respectively.however from 2013 to 2015 there was significant clinical and lung function deterioration fev1 and fvc annual rate of decline was 3 and 4.1 respectively while bmi decreased from 18.1 to 17.1. he presented glucose intolerance in 2013 with lung function close to this moment showing fev1 of 25.1 and fvc of 39.1. since june 2014 he started episodes of hemoptysis and required more frequent hospital admissions due to re- spiratory exacerbations.

since insulin is an anabolic hormone insulin insufficiency may reduce inspiratory and diaphragm muscle function further worsening lung function  the deterioration of the reported cf patient lung function overlaps with cfrd diagnosis and in fact hyperglycemia may have started before and contributed to clinical deterioration as well as other factors such as poor adherence to treatment.

burkholderia cenocepacia and b. multivorans are more prevalent but in brazil b. vietnamiensis was iden- tified as the second most prevalent species in this spe- cies complex in patients attending a reference center in comparison with b. cenocepacia the clinical signifi- cance of a chronic colonization of the airways by the other bcc species is much less clear.

in addition to all clinical factors that might justify clinical deterioration culture-independent techniques could be of use to allow a greater understanding of the respiratory microbiome in this cf patient.

