there is growing interest regarding the use of fmt for treatment of pediatric cdi given the increasing rates of recurrent cdi resistant to standard antimicrobial therapy.34 a review of published fmt cases in children by hourigan and oliva-hemker5 showed that fmt is effec- tive in the treatment of recurrent cdi and suggested that fmt is also safe in the short term in patients with inflammatory bowel disease ibd.here we describe 6 pediatric patients 2 of whom have ibd who underwent fmt for recurrent cdi.case reportswe performed a retrospective chart review to identify patients who underwent fmt for cdi at new york- presbyterianweill cornell medicine new york ny usa from october 2013 through november 2016. the inclusion criteria were 1 laboratory-confirmed diagno- sis of cdi 2 laboratory-confirmed recurrence of cdi after completion of initial antimicrobial treatment and3 completion of fmt.

of note the 4 patients without cd received anti- biotics prior to developing the initial cdi.among the 6 patients the mean number of infections was 2.7 range 1-6 infections over an average of 7.7 months range 3-26 months.

patients 3 4 5 and 6 experi- enced complete resolution of symptoms following fmt and patients 3 4 and 5 subsequently had negative c dif- ficile pcr test and no recurrence of symptoms.

that being said fmt did not appear to be harmful to the patients with ibd and no adverse outcomes resulted from treatment even in those patients who were on immunosuppressing agents.to date fmt has not been as effective as hoped for the treatment of ibd.

perhaps it will be the case that patients with ibd will require ongoing maintenance fmts to ensure the sus- tained desired microbiome profile similar to the way many ibd patients require maintenance therapy of vari- ous biologic agents.barfield et al483it remains to be determined in pediatrics how quickly fmt should be used in the treatment algorithm for recur- rent cdi.

fmt has been used in patients with recurrent and refractory clostridium difficile infection cdi.

patient characteristics details of their clinical courses treatment modalities and out- comes were recorded table 1.six patients 3 males with a mean age of 10 years 6 months range 1 year 9 months to 19 years underwent fmt for cdi.

two of the 6 patients also had crohn's disease cd.

the remaining 2 patients had no other significant medical history.

during this period the 6 patients received a combined total of 20 courses of anti- microbials mean 3.3 courses range 1-6 courses.

both patients with cd received vancomycin initially and patient 1 received fidaxomicin after failing 3 courses of vancomycin.

the 4 patients without cd initially received metronidazole followed by vancomycin after treatment failure.

four of the patients received an age-appropriate dose of loperamide in the recovery room.discussionfmt has been shown to be a safe and effective method for eradicating recurrent and refractory cdi in adults.5 while the data are limited in children initial reports sug- gest that fmt is also effective in the pediatric popula- tion.5 the methods discussed above describe our practice's fmt protocol.

five of the 6 patients described required 1 fmt to achieve eradication of their cdi.

this patient was on biologic therapy for the cd which may have altered the immune system rendering this patient a higher risk for recurrent cdi.we found that while fmt resulted in eradication of cdi in the 2 patients with ibd fmt was not an effec- tive therapy for the ibd.

