e. kholy r. j. genco and t. e. van dyke oral infec- tions and cardiovascular disease trends in endocrinology and metabolism vol.

l. sacco and t. rundek changes in clinical and micro- biological periodontal profiles relate to progression of carotid intima-media thickness the oral infections and vascular disease epidemiology study journal of the american heart association vol.

dietrich p. sharma c. walter p. weston and j. beck the epidemiological evidence behind the association between peri- odontitis and incident atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease journal of periodontology vol.

periodontal disease and atherosclerotic vascular disease does the evidence support an independent association a scientific statement from the american heart association circulation vol.

l. paizan and j. f. l. martin association between periodon- tal disease cardiovascular disease and hypertension a revista brasileira de hipertensao vol.

periodontal bacteria and hypertension the oral infections and vascular dis- ease epidemiology study invest journal of hypertension vol.

lethal and severe coronary arteritis in dba2 mice induced by fungal pathogen caws candida albicans water-soluble fraction atherosclerosis vol.

j. nurgeldiyeva b. g. hojakuliyev and m. b. muhammedov correlation of atherogenesis with an infection of candida albicans international journal of clinical and experimental medicine vol.

sachdeo a. d. haffajee and s. s. socransky biofilms in the edentulous oral cavity journal of prosthodontics vol.

monsenego presence of microorganisms on the fitting denture complete surface study 'in vivo' journal of oral rehabilitation vol.

mubarak a. hmud s. chandrasekharan and a. a. ali prevalence of denture-related oral lesions among patients at- tending college of dentistry university of dammam a clinico- pathological study journal of international society of preventive and community dentistry vol.

f. p. falcao l. b. santos and n. m. sampaio candid'iase associada a pro'teses denta'rias sitientibus vol.

avila d. m. ojcius and o. yilmaz the oral microbiota living with a permanent guest dna and cell biology vol.

405-411 2009 m. m. danser a. j. van winkelhoff and u. d. van velden periodontal bacteria colonizing oral mucous membranes in edentulous patients wearing dental implants journal of periodontology vol.

avaliacao de perda de fluxo salivar total nao estimulado durante a radioterapia em cabeca e pescoco revista brasileira de implantodontia  protese sobre implantes vol.

