The aim of this study was to determine the impact of different wheat bran fractions on the gut microbiota and fat binding capacity to explain their differential effects on metabolic and inflammatory disorders induced by a WD in mice.ResultsAXOS deeply influenced the gut microbiota composition without changing intestinal SCFA level whereas WB and WBs induced differential and specific changes in gut microbes.

OPENReceived 15 December 2016Accepted 2 June 2017 Published xx xx xxxxFat binding capacity and modulation of the gut microbiota both determine the effect of wheat bran fractions on adiposityFrancesco Suriano1 Laure B. Bindels 1 Joran Verspreet2 Christophe M. Courtin 2 Kristin Verbeke3 Patrice D. Cani 14 Audrey M. Neyrinck1  Nathalie M. Delzenne1The aim of this study was to determine the impact of different wheat bran fractions on the gut microbiota and fat binding capacity to explain their differential effects on metabolic and inflammatory disorders induced by a western diet WD in mice.

AXOS shifted the gut microbiota composition blunted Clostridium and Turicibacter genera and strongly promoted Bifidobacterium and Butyricicoccus genera independently of changes in gut antimicrobial peptide expression.

Second AXOS shifted away the composition of the gut microbiota and was the dietary treatment with the strongest impact on the gut microbiota composition Fig.

Several markers involved in gut immune function and gut permeability were analysed both in the ileum Fig.

These peptides participate to the gut barrier func- tion and are an attractive mechanism for the modulation of the gut ecosystem by nutrients .

Only WB fraction promoted fat excretion and differed from the other fractionsby the capacity to increase the Akkermansia genus and to counteract gut interleukin 1 beta IL1b overexpression.

In conclusion wheat bran fractions differently affect metabolic and inflammatory disorders associated with WD feeding depending on their particle size their fat binding capacity and their influence on the gut microbiota.

AXOS derived from wheat bran have been proposed as prebiotic nutrients prone to modulate the gut microbiota to restore host health  .

Finally the changes in the activity of peptidessystems involved in the control of gut perme- ability e.g.

