a report in science raises all new concerns as they describe the influence of individual vaginal microbiomes on drug efficacy and hiv acquisition.the team found that tenofovir prescribed prophylactically in a micro- bicidal gel to prevent hiv infection was more effective in a specific subset of women classified according to bacterialspecies found in their vaginal microbiome.utilizing specimens from 668 women collected prospectively in the caprisa 004 clinical trialthe study team found that tenofovir gel was three times more effective at reducing hiv infection in women with a lactobacillus-dominant vaginal- microbiome when compared to women harboring a non- lactobacillus-dominant vaginal microbiome 61 incidence reduction ratio vs 18 incidence reduction ratio when compared to placebo gel.furthermore in women with a lactobacillus-dominant microbiome drug levels were found to be higher than in women with a non-lactobacillus-dominant vaginal microbiome supporting the notion that specific bacterial species were capable of rapidly metabolizing and inactivating tenofovir in the gel preparations thus reducing its efficacy in prevention of hiv infection.these findings open up the exciting and frighteningpossibility that compartmental microbiomes may be determi- nants of patient heterogeneity and could perhaps underpin drug efficacy or lack thereof.

drug discovery 12 569.klatt n. r. cheu r. birse k. zevin a. s. perner m. noel- romas l. grobler a. westmacott g. xie i. y. butler j. mansoor l. mckinnon l. r. passmore j. s. karim q. a. karim s. s. a. and burgener a. d. 2017 vaginal bacteria modify hiv tenofovir microbiocide efficacy in african women.

science 356 938-945.abdool karim q. abdool karim s. s. frohlich j. a. grobler j. c. baxter c. mansoor l. e. kharsany a. b. sibeko s. mlisana k. p. omar z. gengiah t. n. maarschalk s. arulappan n. mlotshwa m. morris l. and taylor d. 2010 effectiveness and safety of tenofovir gel an antiretroviral microbicide for the prevention of hiv infection in women.

is the microbiome the fifth horseman of the apocalypse in drug discovery implications for the gut-brain axisn drug discovery and development lore abounds for the four horsemen of the apocalypse 1 bioavailability in man 2 metabolism in man 3 toxicology in man and 4 efficacy in man.

in large heterogeneous multicenter clinical trials could variations in patient microbiomes confound evaluation of drug efficacy if so then has the microbiome saddled up as the fifth horseman of the apocalypsewhat about the cns the gut-brain axis or gba is a bidirectional communication system between the gut micro- biome or enteric microbiota and both the central and enteric nervous systems.

failure to achieve efficacy in man has become the primary horseman responsible for drug failures phase ii and phase iii lack of efficacy terminations.recently gender differences have been a major focus both clinically and preclinically for evaluation of new mechanisms and new drugs.

since absorption of oral drugs occurs in the gastrointestinal system stomach small intestines how might variation in the gut microbiome influence drug metabolism at present most studies in this area are focused in preclinical animal models-so the full ramifications in man or segregated by gender is not fully understood.

numerous studies have now shown that enteric microbiota can influence stress response cognition and anxietydepression while also altering brain neurochemistry and physiology.-the hiv studyraises interesting issues regarding how an individual's discrete microbiome may modulate either the gba fundamental brain circuitry or theefficacymetabolism of cns-targeted therapeutics themselves.

could the microbiome be the fifth horseman of the apocalypse in drug discovery or is its role of little concern only time and new data will tell but the possibilities and broad implications are both exciting and alarming.joseph a. conrad guest editor vanderbilt university medical center craig w. lindsleyeditor-in-chiefauthor informationorcidjoseph a. conrad craig w. lindsley notesviews expressed in this editorial are those of the authors and not necessarily the views of the acs.referencesarrowsmith a. and miller p. 2013 trial watch phase ii and phase iii attrition rates 2011-2012. nat.

