the treatments were as follows 1 negative control n-con treatment fed a basal diet and not challenged with e. coli k99 2 positive control p-con fed a basal diet and orally challenged with e. coli k99 30 ml 1 x 109 cfuml 3 c. tropicalis treatment ct fed a basal diet supplemented daily with c. tropicalis 5.0 x 109 cfug 1 gcalf and then orally challenged with e. coli k99 30 ml 1.0 x 109 cfuml 4 mulberry leaf flavo- noid treatment mlf fed a basal diet supplemented daily with mulberry leaf flavonoids 5.0 ww 3 gcalf and then orally challenged with e. coli k99 30 ml 1.0 x 109 cfuml and 5 combined c. tropicalis and mul- berry leaf flavonoid treatment cm fed a basal diet supplemented daily with both c. tropicalis 5.0 x 109 cfug 1 gcalf and mulberry leaf flavonoids 5.0 ww 3 gcalf and then orally challenged with e. coli k99 30 ml1.0 x 109 cfuml.

the phyla bacteroidetes and proteobacteria were abundant in samples taken from the mlf ct and cm groups when compared with the n-con and p-con groups and the two phyla were more abundant in the mlf and cm groups p  0.05 than in the other groups.

this need prompted the present analysis of the effects of two potential antibiotic alternatives-c. tropicalis and mulberry leaf flavonoids supplied singly or in combination-on the intestinal bacterial community composition in preweaned calves challenged with e. coli k99.in the present study the mlf and cm groups had significantly higher adg and feed efficiency and signifi- cantly lower fecal scores compared with the p-con group after e. coli k99 challenge.

the relative abundance of actinobacteria decreased and proteobacteria increased in the mlf ct and cm groups and especially in the mlf group when compared with the n-con and p-con groups indicat- ing that the dietary supplements helped to encourage the growth of proteobacteria and to inhibit the growth of actinobacteria in the preweaned calves.conclusionsthe results presented here provide new information regarding the effects of dietary supplementation with two alternatives to antibiotics c. tropicalis and mulberry leaf flavonoids and their combination on the intestinal microbiota in preweaned calves challenged with e. coli k99.

calves from the p-con group suffered from diarrhea on the first day after the e. coli k99 challenge and all the other calves challenged with e. coli k99 experi- enced diarrhea on the second day.

in our study the relative abundance of lactobacillus increased in the ct and mlf groups and the relative abundance of enterococcus increased in the ct mlf and cm groups.the phylum bacteroidetes was significantly more abundant in the mlf and cm groups and especially in the mlf group when compared to the n-con and p-con groups.

openreceived 11 november 2016accepted 30 may 2017 published xx xx xxxxeffects of dietary supplementation with two alternatives to antibiotics on intestinal microbiota of preweaned calves challenged with escherichia coli k99yanliang bi chuntaoyang qiyu diao yan tuthe aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary supplementation with two alternatives to antibiotics candida tropicalis and mulberry leaf flavonoids on intestinal microbiota of preweaned calves challenged with escherichia coli k99.

before e. coli k99 challenge the adg of n-con p-con ct mlf and cm groups were 0.60 0.59 0.62 0.69 and 0.70 kgd respectively.

after e. coli k99 challenge the adg of n-con p-con ct mlf and cm groups were 0.89 0.56 0.62 0.85 and 0.92 kgd respectively.

in order to observe whether dietary supplementation with the two alternatives to antibiotics would have effects on prevention of diarrhea in preweaned calves challenged with e. coli fecal scores were performed after e. coli k99 challenge.

fecal scores of the mlf and cm groups were significantly lower p  0.05 when compared with the p-con group on d 2-5 after the e. coli k99 challenge.

the cm group had significantly higher otu numbers compared with other groups p  0.05. the communityfigure 1. the effect of feeding candida tropicalis and mulberry leaf flavonoids singly or in combination on fecal scores of dairy calves challenged with e. coli k99.

the increasing abundance of lab in the calf gut might be another reason that the ct mlf and cm groups had significantly lower copy num- ber of e. coli k99 compared with the p-con group.

the mlf and cm groups had significantly higher adg and feed efficiency compared with the p-con group after e. coli k99 challenge.

detection of enterotoxigenic k99 f5 and f41 from fecal sample of calves by molecular and serological methods.comp clin pathol 21 475-478 2012.kolenda r. burdukiewicz m.  schierack p. a systematic review and meta-analysis of the epidemiology of pathogenicescherichia coli of calves and the role of calves as reservoirs for human pathogenic e. coli.

