tumor tissue samples and normal tissues adjacent to the tumor sites nats were collected from 31 laryngeal cancer patients and the bacterial communities in laryngeal cancer patients were compared with control samples from 32 subjects.

because we found no difference in the community components and relative abundances between the 31 tumor samples and the 24 nats we removed the seven tumor samples that did not have relatedtable 2. differences in the bacterial communities in the larynx of lscc patients and control subjects.

compared with that of the control subjects the larynx of lscc patients presented a reduced abundance of firmicutes 30.8 vs 66.8 p  0.001 and an increased abun- dance of fusobacteria 25.8 vs 5.3 p  0.001. the analysis of bacterial genera revealed that streptococcus was reduced 23.0 vs 69.9 p 0.001 but fusobacterium 27.1 vs 4.6 p  0.001 and prevotella 17.4 vs 7.1 p  0.042 were increased in the larynx of lscc patients compared with that of the control subjects.discussionin the study presented here we examined the laryngeal microbiota patterns in 31 laryngeal cancer patients and 32 control subjects.

a abundances  of total 16s rrna sequences of the predominant bacterial phyla in the tumor tissue samples and the normal tissues adjacent to tumor sites nats from laryngeal carcinoma patients and in control tissue samples from vocal cord polyps subjects.

the structures of the bacterial communities in the tumor sites and the nats of laryngeal carcinoma patients were different from those of the control samples collected from subjects with vocal cord polyp.

however pushalkar et al.detected changes in the oral microbiota structures between the tumor and non-tumor tissues of oscc patients and observed a shift in the oral bacterial communities that is likely correlated with oscc.

a comparison of the laryngeal communities in the tumor tissuesand the nats showed higher a-diversity in cancer patients than in control subjects and the relative abundances of seven bacterial genera differed among the three groups of samples.

additionally a higher bacterial evenness was revealed in the bacterial communities in the tumor samples compared with that found in the control samples p  0.001 fig.

in addition to studies focused on increasing our understanding of the structure of the bacterial communities in the larynx an investigation of the associations between the microbiota patterns and laryngeal carcinoma is critical.this study aimed to gain a better understanding of the ecology of the laryngeal communities in laryngeal carcinoma patients and control subjects and to elucidate the relationships between the microbiota characteristics and laryngeal carcinoma.

a hierarchical clustering for assessing the structure of the bacterial genera in the 24 samples from lscc patients and 32 control samples revealed that the control samples were separated from the samples from the lscc patients.

in addition to the observation of different laryngeal microbiota structural patterns being found in the lscc patients compared with the control subjects the relative abundances of certain communities largely differed in the lscc patients relative to the control subjects.

by analyzing the 16s rrna gene variable region 3 v3 we compared the microbiota structures in the tumor tissues and the nor- mal tissues adjacent to the tumor sites nats from laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma lscc patients and in control tissues from subjects with vocal cord polyps.resultsclinical samples and sequencing data quality.

the tumor tissues and the normal tissues adjacent to tumor sites nats were collected from laryngeal carcinoma patients and the control tissues were collected from subjects with vocal cord polyps.

the clusters of the three groups of samples basedon bacterial communities are significant p  0.05 and the related p values were generated using a crossmatch test.comparison of the microbiota structures of lscc patients and control subjects.

the results revealed that the genera streptococcus fusobacterium prevotella parvimonas peptostreptococcus dialister treponema capnocytophaga solobacterium and porphyromonas contributed to the separation of two groups see supplementary table .the relative abundances of the bacterial communities in the lscc patients and control subjects were analyzed again after adjusting for confounding factors.

