the small fraction of non-trichodesmium nifh transcripts 0-3.5 belonged to cyanobacteria predominantly cyanobacterium ucyn-a and richeliacalothrix with the exception of one sample containing 0.01 1j1k presumed alpha- and betaproteobacteria.the nifh dna and rna sequences show that trichodesmium puff and tuft colonies harbored different communities of non- trichodesmium diazotrophs figure 5. puff colonies harbored a larger fraction of cluster iii average 9.6 of nifh gene sequences than tuft colonies average 2.1 of nifh dna sequences while tuft colonies harbored a larger fraction of 1g presumed gammaproteobacteria average 2.9 of nifh gene sequences than puff colonies average 0.2 of nifh gene sequences.

trichodesmium colonies with puff morphology n  8 samples contained a smaller fraction of trichodesmium sequences 24-51 trichodesmium 16s rrna and thus a larger fraction of epibiont sequences than tuft morphologies n  5 samples 57-75 trichodesmium 16s rrna figure 4. the epibiont communities of puff colonies contained a larger fraction of bacteroidetes including cytophagia and saprospiraceae and deltaproteobacteria including desulfuromonadales than tuft colonies figure 4 per sample.

2003. the possibility of anaerobic bacteria inhabiting trichodesmium colonies appears plausible since colonies have been reported to contain anoxic microzones paerl and bebout 1988 indeed we also found denitrification and feii transporter genes enriched in colony metagenomes see functional potential within trichodesmium colonies.

we propose that the unique microbial consortium inhabiting colonies has a significant impact on the biogeochemical functioning of trichodesmium colonies in pelagic environments.keywords trichodesmium marine microbiome nifh diversity heterotrophic marine diazotrophs metagenomics 16s rrna nitrogen fixationintroductionthe filamentous dinitrogen n2-fixing diazotrophic cyanobacterium trichodesmium provides a major source of bioavailable nitrogen n to the oligotrophic subtropical and tropical oceans karl et al.

trichodesmium colonies appear to be hotspots for microbial activity hydrolytic enzyme activities are elevated within colonies stihl et al.

tuft colonies contained a larger fraction of non- trichodesmium cyanobacteria predominantly limnothrix and gammaproteobacteria including alteromonadaceae oleiphilaceae and piscirickettsiaceae than puff colonies.

nmds analyses demonstrated that the overall epibiont community structure varied by morphology with puff colonies clustering separately from tuft colonies figure 3.alpha diversity metrics were calculated from 16s rrna gene otus at 97 identity table 3. both diversity shannon and species richness chao1 varied by sample type i.e.

species richness did not vary among trichodesmium morphologies tukey hsd p  0.05 but all morphotypeshad significantly lower by a factor of 2 species richness than surface seawater samples tukey hsd p  0.001.diversity was higher in trichodesmium puff samples and mixed morphology samples than in tuft samples tukey hsd p  0.001. trichodesmium samples of all morphotypes had lower diversity than seawater samples tukey hsd p  0.05 however when excluding trichodesmium otus diversity in samples of all trichodesmium morphotypes were not significantly different from seawater tukey hsd p  0.05. thus the trichodesmium epibiont community had lower species richness but insignificant differences in evenness compared to seawater.diazotroph diversity via nifh ampliconswe sequenced partial nifh genes and transcripts from trichodesmium colonies and from surface seawater samples for comparison to test for the presence and transcriptional activities of non-trichodesmium diazotrophs associated with the colonies.

summing kos from kegg gene groups revealed broad functional differences between colonies and surface seawater figure 6. seawater samples were relatively enriched in kegg groups including nucleotide and amino acid metabolism transcription translation and replication and repair while the colony samples were relatively enriched in energy metabolism metabolism of terpenoids and polyketides and cell motility.trichodesmium colony and surface seawater metagenomes also differed in the abundances of specific genes and pathways involved in nutrient cycling figure 7. colonies were enriched in genes encoding alkaline phosphatase and transporters for phosphate phosphonates and feii but depleted in feiii transporter genes compared to seawater.

there were similar abundances of phosphate starvation response and fe complex siderophore transport genes in colonies and seawater however the majority of these genes in the colonies belonged to non-cyanobacteria epibionts which onlyrepresented 30 of total colony metagenome counts.

compared to seawater the colony metagenomes contained higher total n metabolism gene abundances 34 and 46 higher abundances in radial and non-radial puffs respectively table s6 and were strongly enriched in genes involved in n transformation pathways figure 7. nitrogenase genes were 2000x more abundant in colonies than seawater and included a large fraction assigned to non-cyanobacteria 11 and 20 of nitrogenase genes in radial and non-radial puff colonies respectively.

2002. bacterial species richnesswithin colonies was 10-fold higher than the richness previouslyassessed for atlantic colonies using clone libraries hmelo et al.

2016 together suggest that trichodesmium colonies provide a niche favoring select bacterial taxa.in addition we observed distinct epibiont communities associated with puff and tuft colonies in agreement with rouco et al.

tuft colonies contained a larger fraction of trichodesmium 16s rrna gene sequences than puff colonies possibly due to less colonizable surface area in this morphotype which likely drives the lower diversity values observed for tufts table 3. this finding contrasts with the microscopic observations of sheridan et al.

2002 who reported tuft colonies harboring higher bacterial densities than puff colonies.

