received september 23 2016.accepted january 21 2017.32153216myer et al.of genetic and environmental variation of genetic mark- ers associated with feedlot residual feed intake and differ- entially expressed genes in the ruminal papillae associ- ated with feed efficiency class saatchi et al.

2016. current advances in nutritional genetic and transcriptomic beef research provide the opportunity to improve on traits such as adg and dmi reduce the as- sociated variation and optimize feed efficiency.previous studies of efficiency in ruminants have focused exclusively on the evaluation of the reticuloru- men because energy production and nutrient supply to the host as a function of ruminal fermentation and mi- crobial community activity are paramount to production efficiency kim et al.

importantly butyrivibrio and pseudobutyrivibrio species significantly associat- ing with these feed efficiency groups in the digesta of the large intestine may provide additional insight and future research direction toward understanding and de- veloping strategies to optimize feed efficiency due to butyrate production and strong xylan-degrading activi- ties of these species in the git of ruminants.although many differences in bacterial community composition among feed efficiency phenotypes have3222myer et al.figure 3. venn diagram of the core operational taxonomic units otu of each segment of the gastrointestinal tract git.

cellulolytic amylolytic proteolytic in the rumen are supported by the lower diversity index and overall otu abundance compared with that of the large intestine myer et al.

within the jejunum bacteroidetes was greatly reduced 0.4 to1.1 - 0.26 and firmicutes populations accounted for more than 80 of the bacterial phyla.in the rumen the genus prevotella made up great- er than 90 of the bacteroidetes population myer et al.

2015. an increase in endotoxic lipopolysaccharide lps in rumen fluid cecal digesta and feces due to subacute ruminal acidosis sara and symptomatic perturbation of mi- crobial fermentation have also been reported in holsteins li et al.

this is further supported by their association with lower or less stable ph in the rumen wallace et al.

44576-578. doi10.109900207713-44-3-576de graaf a. a. a. maathuis p. de waard n. e. p. deutz c. dijkemaw.

21150-60. doi10.1016j.anifeedsci.2015.10.010lindholm-perry a. k. l. a. kuehn w. t. oliver a. k. sextenj.

research using the con- vergence of traditional diet management and genetic approaches with bioinformatics microbial ecology andbeef cattle gut microbes3223hayes b. j. k. a. donoghue c. m. reich b. a. mason t. bird-metagenomics will provide great depth and new tools to optimize the efficiency of nutrient and feed utilization.

with exception of firmicutes populations no large shifts in ruminal taxa were associated with any feed efficiency phenotype as modeled in these studies table 1 greater adg and greater adfi adggreater-adfigreater greater adg and less adfi adggreater-adfiless less adg and greater adfi adgless-adfigreater less adg and less adfi adgless-adfiless.beef cattle gut microbes3221however finer shifts in taxa and otu in the rumen were implicated as associating with feed efficiency phe- notypes.

it must be noted however that although the changes in taxa and otu within the git are correlated with the observed differences in the phenotypes it is not clear whether changes in the microbiome are contribut- ing to differences in feed efficiency or host factors are driving changes in the microbiome.whereas the greatest of these efforts has been fo- cused on the rumen due primarily to metabolic capacity of the rumen the lower git of ruminants has received little attention.

2014 kern et al.

2011 hernandez sanabria et al.

2012 mccann et al.

