the realization that resident gut microbes induce sustained alterations in the adaptive-immune response in draining llns but not mlns of spf mice supports the authors' postulate that the commensal gut microbiota has osteoimmunomodulatory actions mediated through a previously unidentified gut-liver-bone axis.gf mice colonization with spf mice gut microbiota normalizes osteoimmunomodulatory out- comes.

knowledge that balbc and c57bl6 mice differ in polyreactive iga abundance which impacts the generation of antigen-specific iga and microbiota diversity provides indirect evidence that genetic influence on host - microbiota interactions may have implications for the gut microbiota impact on osteoimmunology.while sjogren et al.reported the normal gut microbiota increases osteoclast numbers in growing conv vs. gf mice the current study has elucidated the commensal gut microbiota pro-catabolic effects on bone remod- eling in the adult skeleton are secondary to immunomodulatory actions enhancing osteoclast sizematuration.

p 0.05 vs. spf p 0.01 vs. spf p 0.001 vs spf.gf mice bglap was marginally down-regulated in spf bone marrow and significantly decreased in spf calvaria fig.

a conventionalization study timeline conventionalized convd mice were generated by transferring 8 week- old male gf c57bl6 littermate mice from sterile isolator housing to ventilated cages in a spf vivarium.microbial association was performed via fecal inoculum derived from pooled fresh feces of age matched male spf c57bl6 littermate mice which were housed in the same spf vivarium.

conventionalized convd mice were generated by microbially associating 8 week-old gf c57bl6 littermate mice with gut microbiota from age matched spf c57bl6 littermate mice fig.

openreceived 4 october 2016accepted 8 june 2017 published xx xx xxxxcommensal gut microbiota immunomodulatory actions in bone marrow and liver have catabolic effects on skeletal homeostasis in healthchad m. novince1 carolyn r. whittow1 johannes d. aartun1 jessica d. hathaway1 nicole poulides1 michael b. chavez1 heidi m. steinkamp1 kaeleigh a. kirkwood1 emily huang1 caroline westwater12  keith l. kirkwood12despite knowledge the gut microbiota regulates bone mass mechanisms governing the normal gut microbiota's osteoimmunomodulatory effects on skeletal remodeling and homeostasis are unclear in the healthy adult skeleton.young adult specific-pathogen-free and germ-free mice were used to delineate the commensal microbiota's immunoregulatory effects on osteoblastogenesis osteoclastogenesis marrow t-cell hematopoiesis and extra-skeletal endocrine organ function.we report the commensal microbiota has anti-anabolic effects suppressing osteoblastogenesis and pro-catabolic effects enhancing osteoclastogenesis which drive bone loss in health.

to further explore the commensal gut microbiota osteoimmunomodulatory effects mediated through hepato-gastrointestinal tissues.consistent with prior reports that lymphocytic cells are reduced in the gastrointestinal tissues of gf vs. spf mice   the frequency of overall cd3cd4cd8- helper t-cells cd3cd4-cd8 cytotoxic t-cells and cd3cd4-cd8-tcrgd gamma-delta t-cells were decreased in the mlns of gf mice fig.

p 0.05 vs. spf p 0.01 vs spf p 0.001 vs spf.commensal microbiota's catabolic effects on skeletal remodeling are mediated in part by blunted osteoblast bone formation recognizing that bone remodeling occurs through dual osteoclast-osteoblast actions investigations were carried out to elucidate the commensal microbiota impact on osteoclastogenesis.commensal microbiota enhances osteoclast size and eroded bone perimeter.

is in line with an acute innate immune response to the recently associated microbiota colonizing the proximal gut tissues which is likely secondary to a transient increase in neutrophils expressing high levels of tnf and cxcl1.figure 8. conventionalization study gf mice colonized with spf mice gut microbiota.

as opposed to prior investigations of the normal gut microbiota's impact on physiological skeletal growth-and pathophysiological skeletal deterioration- this report is the first to delineate the commensal gut microbiota's osteoimmunomodu- latory effects on both osteoclastogenesis and osteoblastogenesis in the remodeling healthy adult skeleton.earlier investigations of the normal gut microbiota's influence on skeletal physiology in growing gf mouse models are essentially different than the current investigation of the normal gut microbiota's impact on bone remodeling in young adult gf mice.

data reported as mean-sem.p 0.05 vs. spf p 0.01 vs. spf p 0.001 vs spf.induced a more rapid onset and shorter duration pro-osteoclastogenic effects in gf vs. spf ocps fig.

in spf vs. gf mice may mediate the enhanced terminal osteoclast maturation potential exhibited in day-7 spf ocp cultures fig.

in line with a previous investigation in spf vs gf mice the frequency of cd4cd25foxp3 treg cells were upregulated in mlns from gf mice fig.

in spf mice implies the commensal microbiota enhances osteoclast maturation.eroded bone perimeter analysis fig.

in spf vs. gf mice indicates the commensal microbiota's pro-resorptive actions are attributed to mech- anisms enhancing osteoclast sizematuration fig.

