metabolic gene-targeted monitoring of non-starter lactic acid bacteria during cheese ripeningalessia levante francesca de filippis antonietta la storia monica gattierasmo neviani danilo ercolini camilla lazzia department of food and drug university of parma parco area delle scienze 49a 43124 parma italyb department of agricultural sciences division of microbiology university of naples federico ii via universita 100 80055 portici italya r t i c l e i n f o keywordslactobacillus casei group pyruvate oxidasehigh-throughput sequencing cheesereverse transcription quantitative pcra b s t r a c t long ripened cheeses such as grana padano gp a protected designation of origin pdo italian cheese harbor a viable microbiota mainly composed of non-starter lactic acid bacteria nslab which contribute to the final characteristics of cheese.

cheese samples were collected from the twin wheels after 2 6 and 12 months of ripening immediately grated and stored at -80 degc.rna extraction and cdna synthesisfollowing a strategy employed also in analysis of other cheese varieties grated cheese samples coming from twin wheels were mixed prior to rna extraction .

casei group clusters in the cheese samples b relative abundance of spxb sequence types in cheese samples.

casei group represented on average 51 of the bacterial population showing fluctuation connected to the ripening age of the cheese.

casei group during ripening which is lower in this cheese-making highlighting the importance of raw milk microbial contamination in the final cheese product quality .

casei group in gp cheese and its dynamics during ripening.

paracasei  and this difference was found also in the phylogenetic reconstruction provided from spxb gene.the interchange of spxb sequence types during ripening shows thatthe most abundant clusters at the beginning of ripening prevail during cheese ageing.

fermentum is able to survive throughout the ripening and a higher concentration in the early ripening steps affects the amount that is metabolically active at a more advanced stage of ripening.

casei group was recently used to distinguish the species within this bacterial group both in pure cultures and in cheese where it could provide an alternative energy source through the conversion of pyruvate to acetate.

casei group are frequently found in ripened cheeses and they usually become the dominant bacterial population during ri- pening of extra-hard cooked italian protected designation of origin pdo cheese such as grana padano gp .

casei group in cheese matrix but for pyrosequencing a 684 bp fragment of spxb coding region was selected as a target and primer specificity was assessed as described in the original paper data not shown.

casei group  and remarkably it was also isolated from cheese environment.

levante a. bernini v. gatti m. neviani e. lazzi c. 2016. the spxb gene as a target to identify lactobacillus casei group species in cheese.

furthermore activation of pox-ack pathway was measured directly in cheese by reverse transcription real time pcr rt-qpcr.materials and methodssamplingpdo grana padano cheese was manufactured with raw cows' milk using natural whey starter according to the usual manufacturing technique eu regulation oj l 160 18.6.2011 p. 65-70 at caseificio san vitale brescia italy.

cheese manufacturing was performed in the same day with two different batches of milk using the same natural whey starter leading to the production of two cheese-making hereafter referred to as cm1 cheese-making 1 and cm2 cheese-making 2. cheese was manufactured as reported in the official production guidelines of grana padano consortium  .

