the genes necessary for the utilization of individual polysaccharides are clustered in specific regions of the genome each region being designated a polysaccharide utilization locus pul .the general functions mediated by each pul are similar regardless of which polysaccharide is degraded by the proteins encoded in the pul .

for example when b. thetaiotaomicron was exposed to a mixture of 11 polysaccharides including chondroitin sulfate dextran heparin homogalacturonan levan pectic galactan arabinan arabinogalac- tan a-mannan rhamnogalacturonan i and starch simultaneously transcription of the puls corresponding to the breakdown of the first six polysaccharides was induced42tddif but transcription of the puls for the latter five was repressed .by contrast a complex hierarchy was revealed when b. thetaiotaomicron was grown in pairs of the 11 polysaccharides listed above .

because the amount of glycoside hydrolase increases whereas bt3334 amounts remain constant chondroitin sulfate promotes a surge-like behavior whereby the mrna levels corresponding to chondroitin sulfate pul genes increase upon exposure to chondroitin sulfate peak and then decrease dramatically to about 30-50 of peak levels .the closely 31tddifrelated species bacteroides cellulosilyticus exhibits sustained expression of chon- droitin sulfate pul genes upon exposure to chondroitin sulfate .

as discussed below a regulatory mechanism allows b. thetaiotaomicron to adjust expression of chondroitin sulfate utilization genes in response to the rate at which chondroitin sulfate is broken down as opposed to the pres- enceabsence of chondroitin sulfate per se .the constitutively expressed bt3334 protein is activated 28tddifupon binding of unsulfated 4 5 unsaturated chondroitin disaccharides to its periplasmic sensing domain.

perhaps this should not come as a surprise for a bacterial genus that has an unparalleled ability to degrade a wide variety of carbohydrates much larger than those of studied model organisms.uncovering the polysaccharide preference hierarchy that exists in different bacteroides species particularly those with a diverse array of polysaccharide breakdown functions may provide insights into the unique niches individual species inhabit within the gut and how the composition of these niches is impacted by the host diet.the prevalence of membrane-associated transcriptional regulators controlling polysaccharide uptake and breakdown raises the possibility of nutrients altering chromatin dynamics in bacteroides spp.

although htcs target genes are typically within the same pul where the htcs is encoded a bacteroides xylanisolvens htcs is required for transcriptional activation of both genes within its own pul and genes in a second pul involved in the breakdown of xylan .dietary restrictions bacteroides species differ both in the individual puls they possess and in the precise metabolic capabilities specified by the genes in a given pul.

a lack of obvious preference for a specific polysaccharide or a synergistic breakdown of both polysaccharides 43tddifalso was observed during growth on pairs of preferred or nonpreferred polysaccharides .like their human hosts different bacteroides species exhibit distinct dietary preferences.b.

selfishly utilize complex polysaccharides by performing only limited extracellular degradation while sharing less complex polysaccharides that have breakdown products easily metabolized by other bacterial species.digestion controls appetitethe degradative and transport activities of pul gene products deliver primarily monosacchar- ides to the cytoplasm of bacteroides cells.

that is polysaccharides that previously exhibited pul activation primarily were utilized preferentially over those that exhibited pul repression the exception was rhamnogalacturonan i which exhibited preferential growth despite the previously reported pul gene repression .

by contrast b. fragilis and b. massilensis activate transcription of particular mucosal o-glycan puls prior to the starch pul suggesting a preference for host-derived polysaccharides in these organisms .multiple mechanisms appear to govern the preferential breakdown of polysaccharides in bacteroides.

whereas the latter is true in the vast majority of cases the regulator governing the utilization of fructose polymers is activated by fructose itself .the hands that feedthree types of pul regulator have been characterized to date extracytoplasmic function sigma factorsecf-santi-s factors susr-type andhybridtwo-componentsystemshtcsssuscsusdsgbpsgbpsgholigosaccharidespolysaccharide monosaccharideomtonb-exbbdplghregulatorimfigure 1. polysaccharide breakdown in bacteroides spp.

these results suggestregulatorlow kd constant regulatorglycoside hydrolasehigh kmvariable glycoside hydrolase12tddiffigure 3. metabolic flux controls chondroitin sulfate utilization in bacteroides thetaiotaomicron.13tddifleft upon initial exposure to chondroitin sulfate the concentration of unsulfated chondroitin disaccharide linked black and grey hexagons is low.

in b. thetaiotaomicron the htcs bt3334 governs the utilization of chondroitin sulfate a polysaccharide consisting of a disaccharide repeat unit of b-d-glucuronic acid and b-d-n-acetylgalactosamine found both in the host diet and the intestinal mucosa of the mammalian gut .

use two distinct strategies for polysaccharide breakdown to either prevent other bacteria from accessing their polysaccharide breakdown products or to make them available to other species.

on the one hand the b. thetaiotaomicron htcs bt0366 which activates expression of the arabinan pul is thought to directly repress transcription of specific mucosal o-glycan utilization puls by binding to dna sequences within the pul .

