explored the possibility of using gut microbial markers for noninvasive detectionof advanced fibrosis in nafld.1 they identified 37 bacterial species that were differentially represented between mild nafld and advanced fibrosis and raised the possibility of using this panel of gut micro- bial species as a diagnostic marker for advanced fibrosis in nafld.

's observation of increased abundance of many bacteroides species in advanced fibrosis and a valida- tion for using these bacteroides species as markers for noninvasive detection of advanced fibrosis.the value of the metagenome data set generated by loomba et al.

escherichia coli a member of enterobacteriaceae is the most abundant species in advanced fibrosis while eubacterium rectale is the most abundant species in mildmoderate nafld.

such as the additional injury from the invasive proce- dure and inconsistencies of different sampling loca- tions novel methods for diagnosing nafld havebeen a research focus as represented by a recent work in which loomba et al.

importantly in validating this concept with a different study cohort the authors identified nine differentially represented species between study groups and seven of the nine species overlapped with the 37 species identified from the original study.

a larger cohort size may also address the fact that the differential abundances in microbial pathways protein families and enzymes did not achieve statistical significance after correction for multiple tests.among the 37 featured bacterial species the major- ity of the species with increased abundance in advanced fibrosis belong to bacteroidetes gram-negative while the majority of those species with decreased abundance belong to firmicutes gram-positive.

examined the gut microbiome in nafld with mild and advanced fibrosis.4 many of the observed microbial features in advanced fibrosis differ from the observations of loomba et al.

the metagenome data generated by loomba et al.1 provide a high-resolution platform to investigate how these mechanisms contribute to nafld pathogenesis.

the efforts of song et al.

and xu et al.

this trend of increased abundance of escherichia coli in advanced fibrosis suggests an interesting possibility of microbiome-produced alcohol contributing to advanced fibrosis in addition to early stages of nafld.3the significance of the study by loomba et al.

using the 16s ribosomal rna rrna sequencingmethod boursier et al.

however it is worth noting that boursier et al.

observed an increased abundance of bacteroides in advanced fibrosis which is a validation of loomba et al.

in contrast the approach by loomba et al.

