this is another plausible transcriptional therapeutic target for mitigat- ing inflammation.miscellaneous mirnas act as regulators in p. gingivalis lps-induced periodontitisdu et al.

the extent to which mirnas are involved in this phenomenon remains under investigation but differentially expressed genes encoding proteins associated with the innate immune responses appear to be associated with periodontitis- affected tissues .the classical approach in studying mirnas involves building their profiles from diseased and normal tissues.

this also applies to likely functions of mirnas in immune and stress responses in periodontal disease as described by kebschull and papapanou  and irwandi and vacharaksa .the aim of this mini review is twofold first toassess current knowledge as regards altered mirna profiles found in p. gingivalis-mediated inflamed per- iodontium and second to determine possible func- tions of differentially expressed mirnas in direct response to immune reactions that paradoxically facilitate bacterial survival and consequently promote pathogenesisprogression of periodontal disease.key features of the innate immune response to p. gingivalis lipopolysaccharide lps endotoxin involves initiation of various signaling cascades within immune cells for example neutrophils.

these mirnas are suggested to function as bacterial signal- ing molecules that can be transferred both to other bacteria and into host cells via omvs facilitating the modulation of host immune responses .concluding remarksthe relationship between p. gingivalis and mirnas at present is vague.

further research will contribute to a better under- standing of the functions and the mode of mirnas working in the pathogenesis of periodontitis to deter- mine whether and how mirnas can be harnessed for the diagnosis and therapy of periodontitis.acknowledgementsingar olsen wants to acknowledge funding through the europeancommissionfp7-health-306029 'trigger'.

when investigating early mirna responses of thp1-differ- entiated macrophages challenged with lps from a. actinomycetemcomitans and p. gingivalis naqvi et al.

the results by naqvi et al.

provide evidence for the expected interplay between mirna involvements in endotoxin mediated innate responses for the above genes.effects of mirna-128 on inflammatory response in periodontitisna et al.

na et al.

the increased levels of mirna- 128 may support a regulatory function during survi- val of p. gingivalis in the inflamed periodontium by muting the host's inflammatory response that would otherwise be very harmful to the host tissues and to some extent also for the bacterium.possible role for mirna-132 in periodontitispark et al.

in this way park et al.

li et al.

li et al.

in contrast nahid et al.

mirna-146 because it can target several mrnas .jiang et al.

