thus changes in the genital microbiome that provoke inflammation could facilitate infection by pathogens such as hiv this may explain how a vaginal ecological imbalance could increase hiv risk   or how reducing penile anaerobes could decrease hiv risk .penile anaerobes decrease significantly after medical male circumcision  a procedure that also reduces hiv risk in men by 60 .

in unadjusted analysis we found remarkably consistent relationships between anaerobe abundance and hiv seroconversion among 5 of the 10 anaerobic genera at baseline for each 10-fold increase in the abundance of these organisms the odds of seroconversion increased by 28 to 40  purple bars table s2.after adjustment for risk factors the association between abundance of anaerobic bacteria and the odds of hiv seroconversion actually strengthened  whisker plots table s2 indicating that the increased risk associated with higher densities of anaerobic bacteria was independent of other risk factors.

although the probability of acquiring hiv from a sexual encounter is low the risk varies even after adjusting for known hiv risk factors.

the absolute abundances of penile anaerobes at en- rollment were associated with later risk of hiv seroconversion with a 10-fold in- crease in prevotella dialister finegoldia and peptoniphilus increasing the odds of hiv acquisition by 54 to 63 after controlling for other known hiv risk factors.

com- paring other risk factors at baseline we found that higher numbers of nonmarital sexualtable 1 study participant characteristics at study baselineself-reported symptoms of sexually transmitted infection in the past 6 mopartners inconsistent condom use among other factors were associated with increased hiv acquisition during the trial  .the risk of hiv infection increased with higher penile anaerobic bacterial abundance in regression analyses which was consistent with the higher baseline mean abundance noted in men who later became infected by hiv  table s2.

genera associated with the greatest risk increase in seroconversion with each 10-fold increase in abundance included prevotella adjusted odds ratio adjor  1.63 95 confidence interval 95 ci 1.23 to 2.26 followed by dialister adjor  1.57 95 ci 1.21 to 2.10 and six other genera of anaerobic bacteria peptoniphilus finegoldia porphyromonas mobiluncus peptostreptococcus and murdochiella  table s2.markers of inflammation that have been associated with increased hiv risk  particularly penile interleukin-8 il-8 increased with the abundance of penile anaero- bic bacteria however the relationships were not linear  table s3.

in contrast negativicoccus which was unrelated to hiv seroconversion was not associated with concentrations of il-8 at any level of abundance slope  -0.05 r2  0.03  table s3.discussionhigh densities of anaerobic bacteria on the penis appeared to increase the risk of hiv acquisition in men a novel risk factor that operated independently of other knownfig 2 relationship between absolute abundance of penile anaerobes and concentration of il-8 in the case-control study.

in other words the genital microbiome may influence seroconversion risk by modulating the very target of hiv infection--the human immune system.anaerobic dysbiosis may be a general mechanism affecting the risk of hiv acquisi- tion in both men and women.

while hygiene improvements such as genital washing have not been effective in reducing hiv risk  narrow- spectrum antimicrobials such as bacteriocins or phage therapies that eliminate specific anaerobes   or pre- and probiotic strategies may reduce colonization by high- risk genital anaerobes.

research articlepenile anaerobic dysbiosis as a risk factor for hiv infectioncindy m. liuab jessica l. prodgercd aaron a. r. tobiandef alison g. abrahamdg godfrey kigozif h maliha azizab fred nalugodafsanjeev sariyab david serwaddaf rupert kauli ronald h. graydf lance b. priceabdepartment of environmental and occupational health milken institute school of public health george washington university washington dc usaa center for microbiomics and human health division of pathogen genomics translational genomics research institute flagstaff arizona usab national institute of allergy and infectious diseases national institutes of health baltimore maryland usac department of epidemiology bloomberg school of public health johns hopkins university baltimore maryland usad department of pathology school of medicine johns hopkins university baltimore maryland usae rakai health sciences program entebbe ugandaf department of ophthalmology school of medicine johns hopkins university baltimore maryland usag department of biological sciences center for ecosystem science and society northern arizona university flagstaff arizona usah department of medicine university of toronto toronto canadaiabstract sexual transmission of hiv requires exposure to the virus and infection of activated mucosal immune cells specifically cd4 t cells or dendritic cells.

the genital microbiome may account for some of the variability in risk by interacting with the host immune system to trigger inflammatory responses that mediate the infection of mucosal immune cells.

in- creased abundances of anaerobic bacteria were also correlated with increased cyto- kines including interleukin-8 which can trigger an inflammatory response that re- cruits susceptible immune cells suggesting a mechanism underlying the increased risk.

these same anaerobic genera can be shared between heterosexual partners and are associated with increased hiv acquisition in women pointing to anaerobic dysbiosis in the genital microbiome and an accompanying inflammatory response as a novel independent and transmissible risk factor for hiv infection.importance we found that uncircumcised men who became infected by hiv dur- ing a 2-year clinical trial had higher levels of penile anaerobes than uncircumcised men who remained hiv negative.

we also found that having higher levels of penile anaerobes was also associated with higher production of immune factors that recruit hiv target cells to the foreskin suggesting that anaerobes may modify hiv risk by triggering inflammation.

these anaerobes are known to be shared by heterosexual partners and are associated with hiv risk in women.

