When the plants were badly damaged by aphids they were replaced by fresh plants after aphid migration to the healthy plants.

It is well known that soil-borne non-pathogenic microbes can modulate plant-insect above-ground interactions via plant growth promotion or induced systemic resistance by triggering biochemical changes in the primary plant metabolism.

However most studies focusing on modifica- tions in plant volatile emission through interactions with soil microorganisms mainly address plant interactions1Estacion Experimental del Zaidin EEZ CSIC 18008 Granada Spain.

Given the significant impact of microbial community diversity and richness on plant signalling pathways the root microbiome as a whole needs to be considered in relation to many aspects of plant immunity such as induced indirect defence and insect population dynamics.

Variables influencing plant volatile emissions are multiple including abiotic and biotic charac- teristics such as plant species variety phenology physiology and nutritional quality environmental conditions such as light temperature and moisture status herbivore density and population growth as well as biotic and abiotic soil stresses.

Globally phytohormone cross- talk has been shown to be considerably involved in the biosynthesis of plant volatiles although the mechanism by which the microbe interacts with the plant which subsequently affects plant-insect interaction has not been fully elucidated.

Exploitation of herbivore-induced plant odors by host-seeking parasitic wasps.Science 250 1251-1253 1990.Potting R. P. J. Vet L. E. M.  Dicke M. Host microhabitat location by stem-borer parasitoid Cotesia flavipes the role of herbivore volatiles and locally and systemically induced plant volatiles.

The mechanisms involved in how the functional soil microbiome modulates inducible indirect defence of plants are discussed.As part of the evolutionary adaptation process phytophagous insect-plant interactions occur according to the behavioural choices of insects and the development of physical and chemical plant defences.

Pioneering plant studies show how chewers sap feeders and herbivore egg deposition induce the production of volatiles attractive to entomophagous arthropods-.In addition to indirect interactions plants act as a link between above- and below-ground communities.

Regulated olfactometer system comprising Nerium oleander plants grown in a potting soil initially containing a sterile Controlnon sterile Vermicompost inoculum the herbivorous Aphis nerii and the generalist predator Chrysoperla carnea.with single species of non-pathogenic microbes which have a neutral synergistic or antagonistic effect on plant secondary chemistry .

