melanoma in focuscurr ent developments in the management of melanoma section editor john m. kirkwood mdthe microbiome a basis for novel immunomodulation in mice and menhassane m. zarour mdprofessor of medicine immunology and dermatology university of pittsburgh school of medicine pittsburgh pennsylvaniaho why does immunotherapy work better in some patients with melanoma than in othershz we are still unsure about that but we are working to find a reliable way to predict which patients are most likely to respond to the various immunotherapies.regarding programmed death 1 pd-1 antibodies which are among the most successful immunotherapies to date a previous spontaneous immune response--in particular the presence of t-cell infiltrates in the tumor-- appears to predict a response to the agent.

in particular 2 landmark studies conducted in animals and published in science in 2015 have shed light on the relationship between immunotherapy and the microbi- ome in mouse models of melanoma.in the first study from france dr marie vetizou and colleagues found that therapeutic antibodies targeting ctla-4 effectively shrank tumors in mice that were popu- lated by bacteroides thetaiotaomicron or bacteroides fragilis.

this mechanistic study provided proof that bacteroides has the ability to modulate clinical response to anti-ctla-4 antibodies in mouse models of melanoma.in the second study from the university of chicago dr ayelet sivan and colleagues used syngeneic mice from 2 different facilities to study pd-1 blockade.

i expect however that there will be some significant differences between humans and mice so it is far too soon to begin administering probiotics to patients outside clinical trials.to evaluate the role of the gut microbiome in mod- ulating clinical response to pd-1 blockade we have designed a novel clinical trial in which fecal microbiota obtained from patients who are long-term responders to pd-1 blockade are transplanted to patients with disease refractory to pd-1 blockade pembrolizumab keytruda merck will then be administered.

we need to determine whether the relationship is like that in mice in which we have found a correlation between the presence of certain commensals and tumor response.

the goals are to define which bacteria aid response and to use probiotics to create an optimal environment for tumor control.ho what are the potential risks of these types of trialshz whenever we talk about immunotherapy we know there is a risk for autoimmunity--perhaps less with pd-1 blockade than with ctla-4 blockade.

fine-tuning cancer immunotherapy optimizing the gut microbiome.

201535062641079-1084.whiteside tl demaria s rodriguez-ruiz me zarour hm melero i. emerg- ing opportunities and challenges in cancer immunotherapy.

the agents were not effective however in mice that were germ-free.

mice also lost their responsiveness to treatment if they were treated with antibiotics.

what was exciting is that after b fragilis organisms had been transferred to the germ-free mice such as with fecal transplant the tumors were once again responsive to the anti-ctla-4 agent.

they found that after tumor implantation the mice from one facility were responsive to pd-1 blockade but those from the other facility were not.

the relationship is going to be far more complex in humans than in transgenic mice however.

humans have far more genetic variables than mice do and factors such as age sex and environmental factors-- including diet--are all known to play a critical role in modulating the gut microbiome.

multiple other biomarkers of response have been proposed including a high level of programmed death ligand 1 pd-l1 expres- sion the interferon g ifn-g gene signature and a large somatic mutation load.

