the fact that a c5ar1 antagonist eradicated p. gingivalis from periodontal tissue and inhibited disease progression suggested that elimination of a keystone pathogen can at least in principle be used in the treatment of periodontal disease.in the absence of p. gingivalis the commensal microbiota caused gradual bone loss in the period- ontal tissue naturally occurring bone loss but at a much slower rate in that the bone loss instigated by p. gingivalis at 6 weeks was comparable in severity to that induced by the commensal microbiota alone overa period of 18 months .

however the threat to p. gingivalis in the periodontal pocket is first of all neutrophils and macrophages and not dendritic cells which may be important for instructing t-cell responses to this pathogen .consistent with its capacity to activate c5ar1 independently of the immunologically activated com- plement cascade p. gingivalis retained its ability to colonize the periodontium of c3-deficient mice these mice express normal levels of c5 and c5ar1 required for p. gingivalis colonization .

in non-human primates which naturally harbor p. gingivalis in the oral cavity a gingipain-based vaccine causes a reduction in both the counts of p. gingivalis and the total subgingival bacterial load  suggesting that the entire biofilm benefits from the presence of p. gingivalis.

gingivalis and immune subversion of complementin the subgingival environment p. gingivalis is faced with a survival conundrum on the one hand it is imperative to evade immune-mediated killing on the other hand p. gingivalis needs inflammation to obtain nutrients from inflammatory tissue break- down.

in summary p. gingivalis inhibits ifn- g-dependent priming of macrophages and their nitric oxide-dependent pathway for intracellular killing without affecting the overall ability of macrophages to elicit inflammatory responses.the selective downregulation of il-12p70 is alsoobserved when p. gingivalis binds complement recep- tor 3 cr3 on macrophages .

accordingly p. gingivalis can persist intracellularly in wild-type mouse macro- phages much longer than in cr3-deficient macro- phages .intriguingly although p. gingivalis can exploit complement receptors to increase its adaptive fitness in neutrophils and macrophages it fails to do so indendritic cells which appear to use the same recep- tors to kill this pathogen .

indeed cp40-treated animals were pro-tected from both p. gingivalisligature-induced and naturally occurring periodontitis .is p. gingivalis a keystone pathogen in human periodontitisp.

consistent with this notion oral inoculation of rats with a combination of p. gingivalis t. denticola and t. forsythia leads to increased pathogenicity alveolar bone loss compared to inoculations with each organism alone .the keystone-pathogen concept for periodontal dis-ease initiation is also consistent with p. gingivalis being a quantitatively minor constituent of human period- ontitis-associated biofilms.

it is possible that following disease initiation at low p. gingivalis colonization levels the relative abundance of p. gingivalis could subsequently increase due to elevated inflammation.

in this regard if p. gingivalis is a keystone pathogen in human periodontitis then a treatment that can selectively target this pathogen should at the same time affect the entire biofilm and lead to sup- pression of inflammation and disease development.another intriguing question is why the presence ofa keystone pathogen such as p. gingivalis does not always lead to periodontitis.

for instance people with alterations in signal- ing pathways required for immune subversion by p. gingivalis should be resistant to the tactics of p. gin- givalis thereby counteracting its capacity to precipi- tate dysbiosis.

p. gingivalis can addi- tionally manipulate adaptive immune responses by selectively promoting the differentiation and recruit- ment of cd4 t-helper 17 cells - a t-cell subset with a potentially homeostatic role but strongly implicated in periodontal tissue destruction .although complement is unlikely to be the soletarget of p. gingivalis there is adequate in vitro and in vivo mechanistic evidence that complement is sub- verted by this pathogen in ways that dissociate inflammation which is enhanced from immune clearance which is disarmed.

such studies have shown that p. gingivalis acts as a keystone pathogen that exploits comple- ment function to orchestrate dysbiosis and precipi- tate periodontitis .

at low colonization levels p. gingivalis can act as a keystone pathogen that manipulates complement-toll-like receptor crosstalk leading to the dysbiotic transformation of the microbiota increased counts and altered composition.

in such a commu- nity the role of p. gingivalis is to tip the balance from homeostasis to dysbiosis .

