Use of the Human Oral Microbe Identifica- tion Microarray provided a description of these spe- cies within a more specific phylotype ecology representing responsiveness to therapy.Active current research targets with the oral micro- biome include an emphasis on the microbial transi- tions in oral diseases 30 documentation that lifestyle changes can impact the oral microbiome and alter the symbiotic relationship 112 and micro- biome shifts based upon consideration of community dynamics with microbial successions with disease probably reflecting interspecies interactions and community adaptation to the altered subgingival microenvironment at inflamed sites 125.

Thus this oral pathogen has adopted an array of strategies andbiomolecular structures to engage in 'skirmishes' with the host all directed toward enhanced adherence colonization and expansion of the species within the oral environment.Other oral bacteria often related to pathogenic bio- films and disease have also been shown to possess host-reactive moleculesstructures.

Consistently specific T-cell responses have been mostly explored against P. gin- givalis as one of the key periodontopathogenic bacte- ria using P. gingivalis-specific T-cell lines established in vitro with initial reports suggesting that P. gingi- valis-specific T-cell lines produced mainly T-helper 1 and T-helper 2 cytokines 207.Nevertheless the complex oral environment with a plethora of bacterial antigens constantly stimulating the oral mucosa provides a challenge to describe T- cell clonality properly in oral health andor periodon- titis.

However while it is clear that the host immune-recognition system is designed to antagonize virtually all of the various oral microbial species the relationship of host cells and tissues to the 'natural' autochthonous oral microbiome is sub- stantively different from the biologic parameters of host responses to the 'clear and present danger' of various opportunistic pathogens in this ecology.

As with bacteria in other regions of the body oral bacteria have evolved to colonize and pro- liferate more effectively within the human hostenvironment fostering the concept that quorum-sen- sing communication contributes to colonization accretion and stabilization of microbial ecologies within the oral cavity.

It is equally possible that the host may be capable of regu- lating the microbial ecology by recognizing and responding to quorum-sensing signaling molecules as indicated by some limited studies which demon- strate that members of the human paraoxonase can degrade bacterial acyl homoserine lactones 33.However data are limited regarding the ability of oral commensal bacteria to utilize quorum-sensing processes but it is known that selected oral species possess quorum-sensing capabilities.

Given the limited published data indicating that some pathogens and commensals may utilize quorum-sensing signals to regulate the immune response this area might be ripe for investigation as another reflection of host- bacteria interactions that could represent skirmishes or even sabotage in this never-ending battle.Characteristics of the microbiome in the oral cavity and other mucosal sitesOur friends show us what we can do our enemies teach us what we must do Johan Wolfgang von Goethe General conceptsClear evidence is available regarding the initiation and development of the complex microbiome in the oral cavity.

Subse- quent data also detailed the sequence of acquisition of other oral streptococci and other early colonizers 512 628 in the developing oral microbiome.

These rapidly evolving findings have demonstrated the unique features of the microbiome in i different niches in the oral cavity ii differentiating caries-free children from caries-active children and surface car- ies from severe occlusal caries iii adults with peri- odontitis vs. healthy adults and in demonstrating the effect of smoking on the microbiome iv progressing vs. nonprogressing periodontal sites and v the dis- tribution of species within human populations 178 269 436 456 572 621 652.However the role that this acquired microbiome has on the development and maturation of responses in the oral cavity is unknown.

Recently Gomez  Nelson 225 have reviewed the literature regarding aspects of the oral microbiome in children and the relationship of this early acquired generally symbiotic microbial ecology to develop- ment and disease within and beyond the oral cavity.

