enterobacteriaceae commonly isolated on apple fruits were present at every stage of the flower maturation.table 1. bacterial diversity found in apple juice-related products.familyorigingenusspeciesreferenceslactobacillus brevis lactobacillus paracollinoides lactobacillus caseilactobacillaceaeapple flower fresh-cut apple ciderlactobacillus diolivorans lactobacillus hilgardii lactobacillus sicerae lactobacillus suebicus pediococcus ethanolidurans pediococcus parvulus-leuconostocaceaecideroenococcus oeniacetobacteraceaeapple flower apple cider vinegaracetobacter sp.

finally we focus on the future role of lactic acid bacteria and yeasts in the development of even better or new beverages made from apples.keywords apple cider lactic acid bacteria fermentation organoleptic quality safety improvement microbial diversityintroductionalthough styles of cider are extremely diverse and not easy to categorize depending on the type of apple juices used and the degrees of sweetness from extra dry to sweet and alcohol content ranging from 1.2-8 vv cider can be defined as a fermented alcoholic beverage made from apple juice .

one main obstacle to their efficient antimicrobial action would be their potential sensitivity to acidity found in apple products .control of the fermentation process parametersspoilage and pathogenic flora in apple juice and by extension in apple fermented beverage can be reduced by physical methods which have already been reviewed  and will not be further discussed.

historians broadly agree that apple trees existed along the nile river delta as early as 1300 bc  and a number of written documents citing alcoholic beverages made from apple and pear date back to ancient times notably from pliny st. augustin and palladius .

detected principally mesophilic and psychrotrophic microorganisms on fresh cut apple while coliforms and lab were isolated on apple flowers .

the organic apple phyllosphere displayed higher numbers of bacteria than the conventional apple phyllosphere.

however both apple juiceand fermented cider contain organic acids mainly malic acid 5 gl in apple juice and lacticacid 3-4 gl in fermented cider generating acidity ph level ranging from 3.0-3.5 and 3.3-4.0 respectively that usually prevents the growth of these pathogens which can survive for only a few hours.

reports of patulin in cider are likely due to the adjunction of apple juice to produce 'sweet cider' or low-fermented cider .pathogensas previously mentioned unpasteurized apple cider is historically considered to be a safe product free of microbial pathogens due to its acidic level and to the fermentation process.

interestingly infectivity was completely inhibited by incubation of oocysts in apple cider plus 0.025 h2o2 and inhibited up to 88 by the addition of 5 malic acid .functional improvement of apple fermented beveragescontrol of the microbial ecosystem to improve or modulate cider qualityrational design of starter culturesthe selection of appropriate starter strains is key in the control of the cider fermentation process and characteristics of the final beverage.

yeast strains during apple fermentation results in the production of considerable amounts of esters and alcohols contributing to fruity sensory notes compared with apple musts fermented only with saccharomyces sp.

in the best conditions and after six weeks of refrigerated storage more than 90 of initial patulin were removed from apple juice with no significant difference in organoleptic properties .5.2. health benefits of apple fermented beveragesfermented beverages and especially non-dairy probiotic beverages are believed to be the next functional foods for probiotic delivery.

galvez a. inactivation of exopolysaccharide and 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde-producing lactic acid bacteria in apple juice and apple cider by enterocin as-48.

reviewmicroorganisms in fermented apple beverages current knowledge and future directionsfabien j. cousin  rozenn le guellec margot schlusselhuber marion dalmasso  jean-marie laplace and marina cretenet aliments bioprocedes toxicologie environnements normandy university unicaen unirouen 14000 caen france f.j.c.

correspondence marina.cretenetunicaen.fr tel 33-231-565-785 received 27 june 2017 accepted 21 july 2017 published 25 july 2017abstract production of fermented apple beverages is spread all around the world with specificities in each country.

'french ciders' refer to fermented apple juice mainly produced in the northwest of france and often associated with short periods of consumption.

