however the pro- apoptotic effects on cancer cells were abrogated with the inhibition of etc complex ii and iii .in summary mutations of the mtdna have been found to occur inhuman tumours at a high frequency and the nature of the mutations suggest reduced fidelity of mtdna replication as a primary source of the mutations.

furthermore construction of a cybrid cell line of prostate cancer cells harboring specific mtdna mutations has in nude mice been demonstrated to have a growth advantage over cybrids of prostate cells with functional mtdna .

we will in this review correlate the contemporary knowledge on impact of bacterial regulation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway and modulation of dna repair and fidelity of the mitochondrial genome with risk factors identified for cancer.bacterial infection induces mtdna mutations and interferes with dna damage responsebacteria of our microbiome as well as pathogenic bacteria can in- duce mitochondrial dna mutations in our cells.

as a result cybrid cancer cells with mtdna mutations have the potential of forming a tumor 7-fold larger than cybrid cancer cells with functional mtdna .

select examples of apoptosis inducing bacteria include the carcinogenic bacterium h. pylori which secrets the pore forming virulence factor vaca and induces apoptosis in dendritic cells by translocation of cytosolic bax to the mitochondria causing cytochrome c release .

cells surrounding an area of in- creased cell death will increase cell turnover in order to compensate for the loss of cells.

therefore bacterial induced mtdna mutations interference of affect dna damage responses and dysregulation of mitochondrial function in combination with altered apoptotic regulation may create a risk of malignant cell growth and survival.the intrinsic apoptotic pathway is targeted by bacteriaapoptosis is a highly regulated cellular self-destruction process es- sential for development tissue homeostasis and defense against in- vading bacteria and virus.

in respect to the effect of bacteria on the fidelity of mtdna the resulting mutations are analogous to the mutations seen with a high frequency in different tumours.

the gram positive pathogenic bac- terium e. faecalis does not have these virulence factors however infec- tion also induced transition mutations in the d-loop region of the gastric epithelial cells  and transition mutations have been shown to be the major mutational event found in mtdna of human gastric carcinomas .

because h. pylori in- fection causes a down-regulation of mitochondrial function this differ- ence in mtdna mutations could be explained by a reduced mitochon- drial activity and a lower mitochondrial turnover during infection.in a different study on gastric epithelial cells we have demonstratedthat e. faecalis significantly down-regulated expression of the essential mmr subunits msh2 msh3 msh6 and pms1  and h. pylori si- milarly down-regulated these mmr subunits in mice and human cell lines independently of virulence factors caga cage and vaca .

by transiently knocking down ape1 and yb-1 using sirna we have demonstrated a significant increase in mtdna mutations in gastric epithelial cell culture indicating that these subunits are important for mtdna integrity .

in a study on the occurrence of mtdna mutations in human cancers somatic mtdna mutations were demonstrated to occur frequently 13-63 in five different types of tumours.

the reviewed mutagenic effect of several bacteria on the mtdna directly or indirectly through their inhibitory effects on the mitochondrial dna repair proteins are therefore perfect analogues to the mtdna mutations demonstrated to increase risk of carcinogenesis.

deregulation of apoptosis is a primary target of pathogenic bacteria in their establishment of reproductive niches where an inhibition of apoptosis prevents premature destruction ofinfected cells and allows bacterial intracellular replication.

in- ducing apoptosis is a strategy used by bacteria to avoid clearance by the immune response and to facilitate dissemination of the pathogens.bacterial inhibition of apoptosisseveral bacterial effectors target the mitochondria to inhibit rather than induce apoptosis.

