one important model suggests that there is a need to incorporate gene protein and metabolite data into dynamic biologic networks that include inflammation-mediated disease initiation and disease resolving mechanisms 33.although periodontal inflammation is initiated by components of the subgingival biofilm it is the pro- duction and release of mediators generated and con- trolled by the host's response to the microorganisms that are primarily if not entirely responsible for the periodontal breakdown 66 67. it is important to try to understand how the bacteria and host interact to initiate disease 2. for example in the case of muco- sal biofilms a confounding issue is the relationship between inflammation and disease and it is stillunclear which comes first the immune response or the change in the integrity of the mucosal biofilm 14. for periodontitis there is now convincing longi- tudinal data that support the concept that inflamma- tion is the driver for the conversion of gingivitis to periodontitis through highly regulated processes 34 66 67.what is the role of specific bacteria in the pathogenesis of periodontitisover the decades a number of hypotheses have been put forward to define the relationship between subgingival biofilm bacteria and the development of periodontitis.

2. proposal for the pathogenesis of periodontitis circa year 1997 adapted from reference 9.numerous similar studies it became clear that the level of variability was the patient not the disease 61. subsequently the focus changed again and began to move toward the host response with the proposal of the ecological plaque hypothesis in which 'periodontal pathogens' appear as a result of the disease rather than cause it 45. most recently focus has returned to the central role of bacteria to the development of periodontitis with the keystone pathogen hypothesis polymicrobial synergy  dys- biosis model in which it is proposed that specific microbes modulate the host response to impair immune surveillance and tip the balance from bacte- rial homeostasis to bacterial dysbiosis 10 25 26 27 35. however the temporal relationship supporting this has not been demonstrated and it is equally as likely that inflammation initiates the dysbiosis.while these are all interesting proposals they do not fully embrace the overwhelming evidence that although periodontitis is a bacterial disease it is not an infectious disease in the classical sense because it results from a complex interplay between the com- mensal microbiota host response and environmental factors 68. indeed it is becoming clear that peri- odontitis arises from an inappropriate inflammatory reaction to the normal microbiota subsequently exac- erbated by the overgrowth of some disease associated bacterial species.

rather it is the pres- ence of gingivitis gingival inflammation that is the major precursor to the development of periodontitis 64. furthermore it has been demonstrated that the microbiota associated with periodontitis are 'inflam- mophilic' and that periodontal pathogens cannot persist without the presence of inflammation 24. importantly it has been demonstrated that control- ling periodontal inflammation restores normal bio- film homeostasis 30. the concepts arising from these findings have been validated by later reports demonstrating that low abundance anaerobic bacte- ria together with the commensal consortia and com- plement induce periodontal inflammation that in turn provides an ideal environment for this pathogen to flourish 28. further resultant shifts associated with the development of periodontitis are due to specific pathogens such as porphyromonas gingivalis that thrive in the inflammatory environment and contribute to if not drive dysbiosis 27. finally it is important to note that analyses of the functional sig- natures of oral dysbiosis occurring during periodonti- tis progression reveal that virulence genes of all bacteria are modulated by the disease inflammatory environment 69.a new model for the pathogenesis of periodontitisaccepting that it is the host inflammatory response that largely drives the pathological process new con- cepts for the pathogenesis and treatment of peri- odontitis have been proposed 6 24. in these models the development of gingivitis is a mandatory initiating condition for the subsequent development of periodontitis fig.

a similar protocol has been proposed whereby a periodontal summary score is derived and used to categorize patients into advanced disease moderate disease and health 18.in the proposed treat to target model for the man- agement of periodontitis a periodontal inflammation index could be used to determine patients' pre and post treatment status as i high and unstable disease activity ii lowmoderate disease activity or iii suc- cess or remission.

with focus now directed toward the central role of inflammation and host response in the pathogenesis of periodontitis new prospects arise in the areas of diagnosis treatment and monitoring of treatment outcomes.periodontal inflammation - new opportunities for diagnosisfrom our current understanding of the importance of inflammation in the development of periodontitis and the critical role that periodontal inflammation plays in contributing to overall systemicfig.

for many years bleeding on probing has been recognized as a good marker of current inflammation in the tis- sues but its quantitative assessment has been restricted to a very simple scoring system 22. the absence of bleeding on probing has been suggested to be a good negative predictor of disease progres-sion but a poor positive predictor 36.over the years the presence measurement and quantitation of many inflammatory markers in gingi- val crevicular fluid have been studied as indicators of local gingival inflammation 3. however they are of limited diagnostic value in distinguishing between gingivitis and periodontitis and also have limited pre- dictive value for disease progression 63. nonethe- less an important issue is often overlooked in this argument.

notwithstanding these limitations the periodontal inflamed surface area assessment has been a useful step forward and is con- sidered to be the best tool currently available for assessment of gingival inflammation 39.periodontal inflammation - new opportunities for treatmentopportunities for host modulationrecognizing the importance of modulating the inflammatory response new treatment opportunities arise whereby adjuncts to mechanical debridement focusing on controlling or resolving inflammation are being explored for managing the inflammatoryfig.

it is important to note that this model does not discount or diminish the importance of periodon- tal infection but refocuses attention on controlling the inflammation to control the infection.based on the 10 recommendations of an interna- tional task force for treating rheumatoid arthritis 'to target' 59 10 overarching principles for adopting this process for the management of periodontitis are proposed herein table 1. within this model a num- ber of modifiable traditional markers modifiable inflammatory markers and modifiable systemic risk factors can be taken into account table 2. using these parameters a periodontal activity score could be developed that would take into account the follow- ing factorsexamine all teeth for evidence of periodontal damage clinical  radiographicperiodontal inflammation indexgingival crevicular fluidsystemic markers of inflammationfollowing collation of this information a simple algorithm can be assembled to allow periodontal inflammation to be used within a treat to target model.

in light of our current understanding of the central role inflammation plays in the pathogenesis of periodontitis old con- cepts focused solely on controlling the infection to control the inflammation should be reworked to consider controlling the inflammation to control the infection.acknowledgmentsresearch support t.e.

accordingly there is a need for the development of adjunctive agents for the man- agement of periodontitis based on current under- standing of the etiology and pathobiology of thetable 3. periodontal inflammation treat to targethypothetical example of how probing pocket depths periodontal inflamed surface area scores periodontal risk assessment scores and inflammatory cytokine levels such as interleukin-1 in gingival crevicular fluid could be utilized to devise a conglomerate periodontal inflammation index and associated disease activity score.fig.

4. proposal for controlling inflammation as a treatment approach for managing periodontitis 6.inflammatory load and associated chronic inflamma- tory conditions such as cardiovascular disease dia- betes and rheumatoid arthritis diagnostic monitoring of periodontal inflammation should become a princi- pal focus of our pre- and post-treatment assessments.

in a longitudinal study of bacteria associated with the development of periodontitis in humans it was noted that periodontal pathogens emerged in the subgingi- val microbiota after disease progression and pocket formation 64. furthermore in a rabbit periodontitis model it has been demonstrated that the pharmaco- logical control of inflammation results in sponta- neous elimination of periodontal pathogens from the periodontal microbiota thus reversing dysbiosis 30.an emerging paradigm shiftof the above concepts it can be argued that the eco- logical plaque hypothesis holds considerable credi- bility 44 46. when assessing the earliest tissue responses to the subgingival biofilm it is noted that the inflammatory reaction of gingivitis always pre- cedes the overgrowth of periodontal pathogens 38 40 48 53 64. furthermore there is no good evi- dence to indicate that bacterial invasion of the peri- odontal tissues is an early event in the pathogenesis of periodontitis 6 47 53. indeed it seems very likely that the inflammatory responses occurring in thegingival tissues at the time of first response to the subgingival biofilm can lead to significant alterations in the microenvironment of the biofilm that selects for proliferation of specific bacteria 44. while appar- ently out of line with current dogma such concepts are not new with many authors proposing that the changing pocket environment appears to select bac- teria rather than the bacteria being responsible for the changing pocket and that it is indeed the host response and not the microbes that determine the eventual outcome of host-parasite interactions 9 48. this concept was first supported by observations that colonization and overgrowth by specific species do not predict future disease.

thus periodontitis is considered to be very much a multifactorial disease in which bacteria are necessary but not sufficient for the disease to develop 60. recognizing the essential inflammatory nature of periodontitis opens up new opportunities for the diagnosis treatment and long- term management of this disease.bacteria are necessary but not sufficient for the development of periodontitiswhen considering the clinical presentation of peri- odontitis it is obvious that this is a heterogeneous disease.

in the context of understanding the impor- tance of gingival inflammation as a driver of local tis- sue destruction and a contributor to overall systemic inflammatory burden it is probably irrelevant whether the inflammation is associated with gingivitis or periodontitis.

one such agent etanercept a tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor antagonist has been found in an animal model of periodontitis to assist in the reduction of inflammation through reduced neutrophil infiltra- tion reduced nitric oxide levels and reduced apopto- sis 13. however one systematic review reported limited evidence for the use of these agents for peri- odontitis 29. one of the major problems with anti- cytokine therapy is that a functional redundancy of cytokines can enable the host to activate alternativepathways of inflammation if only one specific cyto- kine is targeted by a therapeutic agent.

