topics of current interest such as the impact of gut microbiota and the influence of bile acids on morbid obesity and especially their role in diarrhea are highlighted in order to provide a better understanding of the specific problems and chances of future treatment in post-bariatric surgery patients.key words bariatric surgery diarrhea malnutrition malabsorption steatorrhea dumping syndrome bile acids and salts gut microbiota blind loop syndromec the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.borbely ym et al .

after all cd should be considered as a differential diagnosis in patients presenting with persistent diarrhea after bariatric surgery.there are a multitude of reasons for diarrhea in post- bariatric patients.

in addition morbid obesity per se and in particular its associated comorbidities broadens the spectrum of possible causes for diarrhea.the goal of this review is to detail causes for chronic diarrhea in the specific post-bariatric surgery context especially after rygb and to give a focused overview of its diagnosis and treatment with the intention to depict the differences and difficulties compared to an evaluation for diarrhea in non-operated patients10-12.

reasons nonspecific for post-bariatric surgery patients such as cancer-related diarrhea are not covered even though the incidence of cancer is higher in the bariatric than in the non-obese population13.our practice we observe an increased consumption of dietary and fat-reduced products in a purpose to eat healthier.

diarrhea occurs in around 10 of patients after truncal and to a lesser extent after more distal vagotomy severe debilitating diarrhea occurs in 2-3101. controversially intentional vagotomy toborbely ym et al .

diarrhea exposes patients at risk for fecal incontinence - up to 50 of patients after bpd-ds are affected - and has a major impact on quality of life as well as on nutrient and vitamin absorption7-9.

this review provides an overview of causes for chronic post-bariatric surgery diarrhea and details the particularities of its diagnosis and treatment in this specific patient population.

alternatively surgical measures such as limb length reshaping and reversal of rygb may be considered.endocrine disordersendocrine causes for diarrhea are rather related to morbid obesity and its comorbidities than to bariatric surgery.

even though one would assume the importance of the microbiome regarding occurrence andor resolution of diarrhea after bariatric surgery this has not yet been elucidated.

triggers including pregnancy traveller's diarrhea gastroenteritis and some type of gastrointestinal surgery were reported132.

bariatric surgery is the only sustainably successful method to address morbid obesity and its comorbidities particularly gaining more and more importance in the specific treatment of diabetic patients.

in the united states 6.3 of home parenteral nutrition patients have a history of bariatric surgery and over two-thirds of them underwent rygb38.common symptom after rygb62024 and usual after bpd1425.

however apart form a few case reports little is known about onset course diagnosis and management of cd following bariatric surgery particularly sleeve gastrectomy and rgb.ibsa prevalence of up to 30 of ibs fulfilling the rome iii criteria among morbidly obese patients was reported.

nevertheless it might be advisable to systematically screen ibs and other functional bowel disorders in patients eligible for bariatric surgery.conclusionpotential candidates for bariatric surgery.

bariatricmetabolic surgery to treat type 2 diabetes in patients with a bmi  lt 35 kgm2.borbely ym et al .

