edu.hkooc zd yn and gz are co-first authors.received 5 april 2017revised 23 may 2017accepted 9 june 2017abstractobjectives we aimed to characterise the microbial changes associated with histological stages of gastric tumourigenesis.design we performed 16s rrna gene analysis of gastric mucosal samples from 81 cases including superficial gastritis sg atrophic gastritis ag intestinal metaplasia im and gastric cancer gc from xi'an china to determine mucosal microbiome dysbiosis across stages of gc.

studies have also shown that while normal intestinal microbiota hastened the progression of gastric neoplasia antimicrobial treatment delayed its onset both in h. pylori-infected and uninfected insulin-gastrin ins-gas mice.in addition h. pylori-free ins-gas mice colonised with intestinal microbiota developed gc more quickly than germ-free mice.taken together these findings highlight the potential involvement of microbes other than h. pylori in gastric carcinogenesis.to date the distribution of gastric microbiome in the devel- opment of gc remains largely unclear.

correlation strengths of gastric cancer-enriched and gastric cancer-depleted bacteria in helicobacter pylori negative hpn and helicobacter pylori positive hpp samples superficial gastritis hpn n12 hpp n12 atrophic gastritis hpn n22 hpp n21 intestinal metaplasia hpn n18 hpp n18 gastric cancer hpn n7 hpp n7.

gut microbiotaseveral studies have provided evidences that bacteria including members of proteobacteria firmicutes actinobacteria and fusobacteria phyla can be regularly detected in gastric biop- sieswith gastric microbial dysbiosis associated with gc.in particular chronic helicobacter pylori infection which causes mucosal inflammation and induces histological changes is recognised as a major risk factor for gc.

we further investigated gastric microbes that could interact with h. pylori across stages of gastric tumourigenesis.

there are inconsistent reports about changes in gastric microbiome compositions across stages of gastric carcinogenesis in terms of microbial diversity and rich- ness.the discrepancy may be due in part to different vari- ables affecting gut microbiome composition such as gender age ethnicity and h. pylori infection.to overcome some of these factors we adjusted otu abundances for potential confounders including age gender and h. pylori status.

also for a detailed gastric microbial structure we collected samples from three anatomical gastric positions and demonstrated their similarities in terms of microbial diversity and richness.interestingly from our species level classifications we observed that 14 of the 21 gc-enriched bacterial taxa are puta- tive known members of the oral microbiome including p. micrap.

our analysis extended previous works by including progressive stages of gastric cancer--ag im and gc--and suggests no effect of h. pylori on diversity and richness of gastric microbiome.

further investigations into the implications of microbiome functional dysbiosis in gc are needed for deeper understanding of gastric tumourigenesis.the relatively high ph of the gastric lumen due to chronic inflammation microbial metabolic products and other factors can contribute to increased growth of extragastric microbes.

differences in gastric mucosal microbiota profiling in patients with chronic gastritis intestinal metaplasia and gastric cancer using pyrosequencing methods.

different gastric microbiota compositions in two human populations with high and low gastric cancer risk in colombia.

gut online first published on august 1 2017 as 10.1136gutjnl-2017-314281 gut microbiota original articlemucosal microbiome dysbiosis in gastric carcinogenesisolabisi oluwabukola coker1 zhenwei dai1 yongzhan nie2 guijun zhao3 lei cao1 geicho nakatsu1 william kk wu1 sunny hei wong1 zigui chen4 joseph j y sung1 jun yu11department of medicine and therapeutics institute of digestive disease state keylaboratory of digestive disease li ka shing institute of health sciences cuhk shenzhen research institute the chinese university of hong kong hong kong hong kong2state key laboratory of cancer biology xijing hospital fourth military medical university xian china3department of gastroenterology and hepatology inner mongolia people's hospital hohhot china 4department of microbiology faculty of medicine the chinese university of hong kong hong kong hong kongcorrespondence tojun yu department of medicine and therapeuticsinstitute of digestive diseaseprince of wales hospital the chinese university of hong kong shatin nt hong kong junyucuhk.

microbial network analysis showed increasing correlation strengths among them with disease progression p0.001.five gc-enriched bacterial taxa whose species identifications correspond to peptostreptococcus stomatis streptococcus anginosus parvimonas micra slackia exigua and dialister pneumosintes had significant centralities in the gc ecological network p0.05 and classified gc from sg with an area under the receiver- operating curve auc of 0.82. moreover stronger interactions among gastric microbes were observed in helicobacter pylori-negative samples compared with h. pylori-positive samples in sg and im.

the fold changes of selected bacteria and strengths of their interactions were successfully validated in the inner mongolian cohort in which the five bacterial markers distinguished gc from sg with an auc of 0.81.conclusions in addition to microbial compositional changes we identified differences in bacterial interactions across stages of gastric carcinogenesis.

the significant enrichments and network centralities suggest potentially important roles of p. stomatis d. pneumosintes s. exigua p. micra and s. anginosus in gc progression.introductiongastric cancer gc is the fourth most common malig- nancy and one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide.it commonly develops through a multistep process of histological progression from atrophic gastritis ag through intestinal metaplasia im to gc.host-related factors such as abo blood group genetic predisposition and environmental factors including microbial infections have been shown to contribute to gastric tumourigenesis.coker oo et al.

