table summarizes specific bacterial changes induced by een.table 2. specific bacterial changes induced by exclusive enteral nutrition een.increased during eendecreased during een firmicuteslevels of a2-165 faecalibacterium prausnitzii p  0.0046 relative abundance of firmicutes p  0.227 levels of m212 faecalibacterium prausnitzii p  0.61  concentration log10 16s ribosomal rna gene copy numberg of dry stool of faecalibacterium prausnitziip  0.002 relative abundance of faecalibacterium p  0.068 relative abundance of lactococcus p  0.017 relative abundance of dialister p  0.04 relative abundance of christensenellaceae p  0.0237 relative abundance of ruminococcacae p  0.04 relative abundance of subdoligranulum p  0.023 bacteroidetesconcentration of bacteroides n  1 p not reported concentration log 10 cells per g of faeces of bacteroidesconcentration of bacteroidesprevotella p  0.053  concentration of prevotella p  0.27 relative abundance of bacteroidetes p  0.039 proteobacteriaconcentration of proteobacteria n  1 p not reported  concentration of sutterella p  0.05 actinobacteriaabundance of bifidobacterium p  0.1 abundance of bifidobacteriaceae genus p  0.005 concentration of bifidobacteria p  0.003 een induced microbiota changes and relation to disease activity and remissionthe dietary treatment in line with the literature led to a high remission rate in cd subjects up to 90. the decline in specific bacteria particularly the levels of f. prausnitzii  and bacteroides-prevotella  was found to correlate with the achievement of clinical remission.

levels of f. prausnitzii m212 decreased without statistical significance p  0.61.number of bacterial species was reduced by een in cd p  0.672 the ratios of bifidobacteria and bacteroides fragilis were reduced p  0.664 and 0.034 respectively and enterococcus was increased p  0.788.concentration of fecal acetic acid was reduced by een p  0.05 and butyric and valeric acids were increased p  ns.

prausnitzii p  0.002 and bifidobacteriumgenus decreased p  0.053 andre-increased on a normal diet p  0.006 for faecalibacterium p  ns for bacteroidesprevotella but remained lower compared to healthy subjects.a decrease in species was evident after 15 days of een p  0.037. diversity returned to baseline when patients were back to a normal diet but remained lower at any time compared to controls.

specific quantitative pcr to determine predominant bacterial groups.determination of the fecal pattern of short-chain-fatty acids scfas usinggas-liquid chromatogrphysubjects and required time to achieve stability of the band profile in each subject during exclusive and partial enno statistical analysis available.cd children had a greater degree of change in the bacterial composition during een compared to controls on a normal diet p  0.05. the greatest change was seen in ruminococcaceae p  0.001 and the least in the bacteroides-prevotella group p  0.01.levels of f. prausnitzii a2-165 decreased significantly p  0.0046 after treatment compared to baseline and to other groups.

34 genera significantly were reduced over the een course including f. prausnitzii only lactococcus increased with een.microbiota composition changed within one week of een moving farther from the centroid of healthy controls overallp  0.05 among responders p  0.02 among non responders p  0.14.abundance of six genera changed after one week p  0.05. an opposite pattern was seen in anti-tnf treated patients microbiota composition became similar to healthy controls in one week and in pen treated patients.

exclusion subjects on antibiotics and probiotics and using new generation techniques of microbiota analysis.based on this background we aimed to systematically review the existing literature on 'the effects induced by een on intestinal microbiota' in order to highlight the current knowledge on this topic to reveal possible limitations of current studies and to point out research gaps on this important issue.the normal intestinal microbiota techniques of analysisthe human intestinal microbiota is represented by a complex system of bacteria archaea viruses and fungi.

a decrease in genera from the proteobacteria phylum particularly sutterella p  0.05 was observed whereas alistipes p  0.05 and bifidobacterium p  0.1 increased over the course of een .

een decreased the abundance of phylum bacteroidetes p  0.039 and increased the abundance of firmicutes p  0.027.a decrease in genera from theguinet-charpentier c et al.

sequences were compared to 28 complete microbial genomes annotated with kegg.proteobacteria phylum particularly sutterella was observed p  0.05 whereas alistipes p  0.05 and bifidobacteriump  0.1 increased during een.species diversity chao-1 index decreased among sustained remission sr samples whereas it increased among the non-sr samples over the course.

demonstrated a decrease in the bacterial diversity richness calculated as the total number of bands on the ttge images after 30 days of een p  0.041 persisting at the end of een p  0.037 .

the authors initially identified eight metabolic pathways that differed significantly between cd patients and controls p value  0.1 the comparison of these eight pathways showed that sr patients were much more similar to controls compared to non-sr patients in the abundance of these pathways non-sr patients differed significantly in the abundance of seven of the eight pathways while sr-patients differed significantly from the controls in the abundance of two pathways only p value  0.05 after correction according to the method of benjamini and hochberg.

taxonomic composition changed over the course of een treatment no specific statistic measure is indicated.eight kegg pathways differed significantly between baseline cd patients and controls p  0.05. sr patients had greater similarity to controls than nsr patients in all cases.methodologies of microbiota determinationthe earliest study was conducted separating pcr-amplified fragments of 16s rdna in polyacrylamide gels containing a gradient of denaturating agents dgge or in a temperature gradient tgge .

studies detailing changes in microbiota composition induced by een offer a unique chance to explore the isolated effect of a specific dietetic intervention in the ibd microbiota.

in healthy subjects the bacteria composing the intestinal microbiota primarily belong to two phyla that together represent 90 of the microbiota the firmicutes and the bacteroidetes.

all studies were published between 1950 start of medline and january 2017. from each study the following information were extracted 1 characteristics of the participants number age disease's status method of diagnosis concomitant therapies 2 type of microbiota analysis biological sample and technique of analysis 3 nutritional treatment type of formula duration of treatment exclusivity and 4 outcome of nutritional treatment and correlations with microbiota changes.resultsstudies characteristicsfourteen studies were identified one case-control report and 13 prospective studies 12 of them including a control group -.

