we found that short-term epa-ffa supplementation at a dosage of 2 gdaily was associated with a signif- icant increase of epa and overall o-3 pufas content epa dpa and dha into rbcs suggesting that epa was incorporated by most of patients 1719 and efficiently converted into dpa and dha.although the primary end-point of this study was not to test the clinical benefit of epa-ffa but to explore its effect on mucosal inflammation and new potential chemopreventive mechanisms during long-standing uc we found that short-term epa-ffa supplementation reduced mucosal inflammation with a significant drop in fc favoring an improvement of both endoscopic and histological inflammation in almost all patients.

strikingly the increased o-3 pufas content was sufficient to induce a rel- evant protective response in uc patients while possibly maintaining the same o-6 pufas content as previously suggested.in this study in order to characterize the epa-ffa short-term effects in long-standing uc patients we first focused on the effects of epa-ffa supplementation on il-10stat3socs3 signalling.

thirdly we cannot completely rule out that the clinical outcome observed in our patients could be the result of a potential combined effect between epa-ffa and stable maintenance of uc therapies such as 5-aminosalicylic acid which is taken by most of the recruited patients.in conclusion in this pilot study epa-ffa improved endoscopic and histological inflammation affected theil-10stat3socs3 cascade stimulated goblet cells differentiation and modulated the long-term uc-related colonic alterations of intestinal microbiota.

in this pilot study we evaluated the effect of eicosapentaenoic acid as free fatty acid epa-ffa supplementation on mucosal disease activity colonic differentiation markers and microbiota composition in uc patients.

twenty long-standing uc patients in stable clinical remission and withfecal calprotectin fc 150 ugg were enrolled t0 and supplemented with epa-ffa 2 gdaily for 90 days t3.

epa-ffa treatment reduced fc levels att3.

epa-ffa improved endoscopic and histological inflammation and induced il-10 socs3 hes1 and klf4 in compliant andresponder patients.

importantly long-term uc-driven microbiota composition was partially redressed by epa-ffa.

in conclusion epa-ffa supplementation reduced mucosal inflammation promoted goblet cells differentiation and modulated intestinal microbiota composition in long-standing uc patients.patients with ulcerative colitis uc have an increased risk to develop colitis-associated cancer cac which is proportionally related to the duration and the extent of the disease.

we have recently demonstrated that a diet-containing highly-pure 1 eicosapentaenoic-acid as free fatty acid epa-ffa an o-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid o-3 pufa was able to prevent colon cancer initiation and promotion in the azoxymethandextran sodium sulfate aom-dss mouse model.

in the present exploratory study patients with long-standing uc in stable clinical remission and active inflammation identified by increased fc values were supplemented with epa-ffa in order to test its effects on relevant mechanisms associated with uc disease and progression to cac.resultsepa-ffa supplementation induces fc reduction and favors endoscopic and histological remis- sion.

after baseline colonoscopy one patient presented a clinical relapse before starting epa-ffa supplementation and was excluded from the trial.

noteworthy during epa-ffa supplementation no clinical relapse was observed.fatty acids composition was evaluated on rbc-purified membranes.

compared to t0 epa-ffa supplemen- tation led to a significant increase of epa p  0.0001 fig.

interestingly the combined percentage content of epa dpa and dha was significantly increased at t3 compared to t0 p  0.0001 supplementary figure  while the percentage content of o-6 pufas arachidonic  linoleic acids was unchanged upon epa-ffa supplementation supplementary figure .importantly a significant reduction of fc at t3 was observed p  0.0001 fig.

