they show how the gut microbiota of the vinegar fly drosophila melanogaster significantly affects food preferences and foraging behaviour of its host.the microbiome of drosophila and that of many other flies is dynamic and the abundance and diversity of the community change as flies age fluctuating according to the nutritional status and history of each host.

thus acetobacter-colonized flies were highly averse to diets rich in protein whereas lactobacillus-colonized flies gravitated towards diets rich in carbohydrates.these bacteria-induced changes in host behaviour may reflect both the metabolic needs of the resident bacteria and their ability to complement host nutrition by buffering amino acid deficiencies in the diet .the question of who benefits from this manipulation cannot fail to tickle our curiosity and wong et al.

thus whereas untreated flies preferred a cocktail of acetobacter and lactobacillus flies raised on only one of these bacteria significantly preferred the diet containing the same bacteria.

they seeded a 21 proteincarbohydrate diet which is not the optimal diet for flies with a mixture of acetobacter and lactobacillus.symbiotic flies exhibited a preference for this diet rather than the fly-optimal diet containing protein and sugar in a 12 ratio.

however when flies were monocolonized by single strains of either acetobacter or lactobacillus their behaviour changed significantly.

bymanipulating the microbial community in the drosophila gut and offering experimental flies diets seeded withcombinations of different bacteria changes in dietary preference could be monitored and quantified.

a series of supporting experiments with adult flies show that the mechanism of attraction towards bacteria is based on olfaction and that in the absence of microbes the olfactory-guided response is altered.the paradigm of nutritional geometry has been useful in illustrating howanimals self-select optimal diets balancing the competing needs of protein and carbohydrate .

specifically untreated symbiotic flies that is those harbouring the complex native microbiota dominated by acetobacter and lactobacillus prefer diets containing a 12 ratio of protein to carbohydrates.

this can initiate a process that may lead to evolutionary change by embedding flies associated with specific microorganisms in a discrete ecological niche.

although the magnitude of this behaviour varied according to the different bacterial species provided in the diet the conclusion that microbial preferences in drosophila are influenced by resident microbes is robust.previous work has shown that dietary preferences may be innate exposure- dependent or result from associative learning.

needed to nail down support for the hypothesis that resident bacteria are directly responsible for the observed changes in foraging behaviour.

using this approach wong and colleagues further show that the presence of bacteria on food changes fly foraging behaviour.

despite this tentative link these symbionts can as shown here manipulate their host's behaviour.

for example mosquitoes infected with the malaria parasite a protozoan exhibit blood feeding behaviour that increases the probability of parasite transmission to a novel human host.

intriguingly the same behaviour can be elicited by challenging the immune system of the mosquito with heat inactivated escherichia coli a bacterium ecologically and evolutionarily unrelated to mosquitoes .

