histicola might colonize the upper gut of hla-dr3.dq8 trans- genic mice.disease-suppressive effects of p. histicola required viable bacteriato determine whether p. histicola suppression of disease required whole bacteria or bacteria-derived soluble factors we investigated the ability of cell-free p. histicola culture super- natant ph-cs to suppress eae.

histicola challenge caused a shift in the composition of the gut microbiotafinally to investigate whether treatment with p. histicola can alter gut microbiota composition fecal samples were collected from pre- naive and post-immunized eae mice receiving either medium or p. histicola.

reporthuman gut-derived commensal bacteria suppress cns inflammatory and demyelinating diseasegraphical abstracthighlightsd a human gut bacterium has potential as a therapy for multiple sclerosis msd p. histicola can suppress disease in a preclinical animal model of msd p. histicola suppresses disease by inducing cd4 foxp3 regulatory t cellsauthorsashutosh mangalam shailesh k. shahi david luckey ... chella davidveena taneja joseph murraycorrespondencein briefmangalam et al.

histicola suppresses disease through downregulation of pro- inflammatory th1th17 response and induction of regulatory cd4foxp3 regulatory t cells tregs.resultstreatment with p. histicola suppressed plp91-110- induced eae in hla-dr3.dq8 transgenic mice previously we showed that double-transgenic mice expressing hla-dr3.dq8 develop eae with cns pathology  .

to address whether coloni- zation with p. histicola alone can modulate the disease we depleted microbial flora of mice using broad-spectrum antibi- otics for 3 weeks  and gavaged with medium or p. histicola.

histicola colonizes naive mice 8-12 weeks old were treated with either medium or p. histicola.

the risk of eae development was significantly lower in the live-bacterium group hazard ratio 7.7 95 ci 2.5-24 p  0.005. we tested live p. histicola in doses that ranged from 1 3 107 to 1 3 109 cfusml and observed a dose-depen- dent effect with optimal suppression at 1 3 108 cfusml see table s2.treatment with p. histicola reduced inflammation and demyelination in the cnsanalysis of cns tissues from medium-challenged hla- dr3.dq8 transgenic mice showed severe inflammation and demyelination in the brain and spinal cord compared to thep.

histicola administration downregulated plp91-110- specific t cell and cytokine responseto determine the effect of p. histicola on antigen-specific t cell responses we isolated splenocytes from mice given bacteria or medium and stimulated with the plp91-110 peptide.p.

to test whether p. histicola could directly induce a treg population naive hla-dr3.dq8 transgenic mice were challenged with 1 3 108 cfusml p. histicola or medium on alternate days for seven doses.

thus p. histicola challenge restored gut microbiota to the pre-immunized state.discussionwe have identified a commensal bacterium p. histicola from the human upper gastrointestinal tract that had a systemic suppres- sive effect distant from the small intestine.

p. histicola inhibited the development of eae in hla-dr3.dq8 transgenic mice a preclinical model of ms. we observed that p. histicola treatment markedly attenuated inflammation and demyelination and reduced bbb permeability compared to medium or control bacteria.

disease protection induced by p. histicola was transferable into other an- imals this therefore supports our hypothesis that p. histicola protects the mice from eae by modulating the systemic immune response.

the abil- ity of p. histicola to suppress eae in mice with depleted gut flora suggests a direct role for p. histicola in disease suppression.

p. histicola increased levels of tolero- genic cd103 dcs producing high levels of il-10 and low levels of il-23.both il-17 and ifn-y are the major pro-inflammatory cyto- kines associated with the pathology of ms. p. histicola treatment suppressed myelin antigen-specific t cell recall response and reduced il-17 and ifn-g in the periphery as well as in cns.

our study demonstrates that p. histicola can suppress eae in mice however it is currently unclear whether p. histicola supple- mentation will be effective as a treatment for ms. interestingly the genus prevotella is reduced in rrms patients compared with healthy controls  and increased in rrms patients on disease-modifying treat- ments .

