1 205 934 4573 fax 1 205 975 6097 there have been many advances made on the interactions between dietary compounds and the epigenome and here we explore some of the exciting and emerging topics on the epigenetics diet.first draft submitted 19 june 2017 accepted for publication 26 june 2017 published online 11 august 2017keywords 5hmc  acetylation  cancer  dna methylation  epigenetic diet  histone modifications microbiome  phytochemicalswe coined the term 'epigenetics diet' only 6-years ago based on numerous studies delineating the impact of bioactive dietary compounds on changes in the epigenome 1. there have been many advances made on the interactions between dietary compounds and the epigenome and here we explore some of the exciting and emerging topics on the epigenetics diet.

low molecular weight byproducts generated from the gut flora have the ability to influence the epigenome through dna modifications as well as chromatin remodeling 4. bacterial metabolites like folate influence dna methylation through their ability to donate methyl moieties to s-adenosylmethionine same which in turn provides the methyl groups for dna methyltransferases to generate 5-methylcytosine 5mc.

characterized the composition and function of gut microbiome members and actually determined that there was an enterotype cluster that not only had elevated levels of biotin synthesis enzymes but also enzymes necessary for vitamin c synthesis a vitamin that acts as a co-factor in the dna demethylation process 10.hydroxymethylation of dna no longer considered solely an intermediate of dna demethylationboth the microbiome and combinatorial epigenetic-modifying phytochemicals influence the prevalence of 5- hydroxymethylcytosine 5hmc.

we propose that much like dna methylation and histone modifications dna hydroxymethylation is a form of epigenetic modification to the genome that is important for gene regulation.

aberrant gene expression can be due to changes in dna methylation and histone acetylation among others.combinatorial epigenetic-modifying phytochemicalsthere are limitations when considering use of dietary components to treat or prevent cancer.

other dietary dnmt inhibitors such as epigallocatechin gallate and genistein that are components of the epigenetics diet may in fact promote this intermediate which is indistinguishable in a common bisulfite assay for dna methylation content.

it will be important to re-evaluate previous studies that only used levels of 5mc as a marker of dna methylation and to assess the role of the epigenetics diet for its impact on key genes that may be regulated by changes in 5hmc content.digesting the scope of dietary epigenetics  cancerthe nutrient data laboratory generated by the usda is an exhaustive and growing database accessible by the general public that characterizes the composition of foods.

butyrate is an epigenetic modifiercommentarylewis  tollefsbolprimarily known for its role in histone deacetylase hdac inhibition but it also has a lesser-known role in dna methylation.

the 5hmc in dna demethylation is an oxidized intermediate in the conversion of 5mc to an unmethylated state by the ten-eleven translocation 1 enzyme tet1.

the process of dna demethylation is a signal transduction pathway 5mc is converted to 5hmc which is converted to 5-formylcytosine and 5-carboxylcytosine that converts to unmodified cytosine with the final product resulting in gene transcription.

28819 13669-13674 2013.marco a kisliouk t tabachnik t weller a meiri n. dna cpg methylation 5mc and its derivative 5hmc alter histone post translational modifications at the pomc promoter affecting the impact of perinatal diet on leanness and obesity of the offspring.

there is an aberrant gene expression due to epigenetic changes in all cancer types so an intuitive and holistic approach to cancer therapy would be to use these bioactive dietary compounds as a means of not only neutralizing epigenomic aberrations as cancer treatment but also as cancer prevention.

in a more realistic view of dietary phytochemicals an increasing number of current studies focus on their combination.

humans generally do not simply eat one food item so combinatorial studies are important to enhance our understanding of the interactions between various epigenomic-modifying dietary compounds.

5hmc and tet1 undergo changes in embryonic stem cells and with cellular differentiation and the loss of 5hmc is considered a hallmark of cancer 56. once differentiation is completed the levels of the tet enzymes particularly tet1 and tet2 decrease 13. it is notable that vitamin c is a potential co-factor for feii 2-oxoglutarate dioxygenase enzymes like tet and can therefore enhance demethylation of genes through the activation of tet 7. common dietary sources of vitamin c include oranges red and green peppers kale broccoli and guava.

