Therefore these results suggest that Akkermansia may be linked to the inflammatory milieu by modulating the FFA profile in the host.Previousstudieshaverevealedreducedlevelsof Akkermansia in patients suffering from inflammatory bowel disease or other met- abolic impaired conditions   although some controversy exist on the role of Akkermansia in these disorders.

To this end associations between Akkermansia and the levels of individual FFA g-linolenic pal- mitic oleic stearic linoleic palmitoleic linoleic AA EPA andTable 2  Akkermansia as predictor of free fatty acids FFA serum levels.DHA were assessed.

No associations were found for Akkermansia with IFNg r  0.056 p  0.604 or MCP-1 r  -0.028 p  0.802 serum levels.Therefore all these results suggest a relationship between intestinal Akkermansia and serum FFA levels in humans.

This finding is in line with the negative association observed between Akkermansia and IL-6 serum levels.associations between FFa Profiles Microbial Populations and scFaOur results from the PCA analysis and the differences found in the associations with Akkermansia and IL-6 levels point to the existence of different FFA profiles among individuals.

Divergent patterns in the associations between dietary intakes with microbial populations and SCFA were also observed.Microbial imbalanced Populations as Predictors of impaired FFa levelsFinally although Akkermansia abundance was identified as the only microbial predictor of serum FFA levels in the whole popu- lation analyzed n  101 striking differences in Akkermansia levels were evidenced between clusters I and II.

This observation supports a gradual relationship between Akkermansia abundance and FFA serum levels and therefore aligns with the concept proposed by other authors   that a threshold for Akkermansia levels may exist.

In sum it is feasible that Akkermansia may modulate the gut environment and some intestinal microbial populations through several mechanisms .It has been reported that Akkermansia and Lactobacillus exhibited diverging trends in twins discordant for metabolic syndrome .

On the other hand the balanced immune responses promoted upon Akkermansia colonization may also account for the increased IL-6 levels found in our study in sub- jects with diminished abundance of Akkermansia.

Our results showed that the intestinal abundance of Akkermansia was the main predictor of total FFA serum levels displaying a negative association with total FFA and the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6.

Similarly an altered FFA profile identified by cluster analysis was related to imbalanced levels of Akkermansia and Lactobacillus as well as increased fecal SCFA enhanced IL-6 serum levels and higher prevalence of subclinical metabolic alterations.

