occupancy generally in- creased in more southeastern wetlands and snail intermediate host community composition had strong effects on most symbiont taxa.we have used sophisticated but accessible statistical methods to reveal that spatial components--which influence colonization--and host community composition-- which mediates transmission--both drive symbiont community composition in this system.

understanding the drivers of symbiont community pat- terns has implications ranging from emerging infectious disease to managing host microbiomes.using symbiont communities from amphibian hosts sampled from wetlands of california usa we quantified the effects of spatial structure habitat filtering and host community components on symbiont occupancy and overall metacommunity structure.we built upon a statistical method to describe metacommunity structure that ac- counts for imperfect detection in survey data--detection error-corrected elements of metacommunity structure--by adding an analysis to identify covariates of com- munity turnover.

these methods allow us to associate broad patterns of community turno- ver to local species-level effects ultimately improving our understanding of spatial community dynamics.keywords amphibians bayesian inference disease ecology metacommunity occupancy modelling parasites symbionts trematodes354  c 2017 the authors.

in tick-borne diseases such as babesiosis and lyme disease for instance interactions between the two caus- ative agents--babesia microti and borrelia burgdorferi--can promote transmission and lead to more severe disease in humans diuk-wasser vannier  krause 2016. thus understanding the environmental driv- ers of symbiont community composition is an important goal and one for which the field of community ecology has much to offer johnson et al.

thus we amalgamate the within-host symbiont community of each sampled frog to a local wetland-level symbiont community.

function as first intermediate hosts for many of the trematode species mccaffrey  johnson 2017. amphibian rich- ness at each site ranged from one to all six species with a mean of 3.1 while snail richness ranged from none to five taxa with a mean of 2.1.  environmental drivers of species turnoverbased on waic model selection the spatial and host community com- position components consistently influenced symbiont taxa occurrence and consequently overall community composition whereas the mod- els with habitat filtering showed little support table 3. the within- sample model selection approach was largely validated by the auc analysis using the 2013 data where models with combinations of spa- tial and host components out-competed the null model for three out of the eight taxa table s1 in appendix s2.

2012. thus snail richness and the identity of snail host species within a wetland both play important roles for explaining symbiont community composition.the composition of alternative amphibian hosts had a smaller im- pact on symbiont community composition compared to snail compo- sition.

e. ... power a. g. 2015. the community ecology of pathogens coinfection coexistence and community composition.

received 26 october 2016  accepted 27 june 2017doi 10.11111365-2656.12735animal host-micr obe intera ctions parasite metacommunities evaluating the roles of host community composition and environmental gradients in structuring symbiont communities within amphibiansjoseph r. mihaljevic12  bethany j. hoye1  pieter t. j. johnson11department of ecology and evolutionary biology university of colorado boulder co usa2school of informatics computing and cyber systems northern arizona university flagstaff az usacorrespondencejoseph r. mihaljevicemail present addressbethany j. hoye centre for sustainable ecosystem solutions school of biological sciences university of wollongong wollongong nsw australiafunding informationdavid and lucile packard foundation division of environmental biology grantaward number 0841758 and 1149308 division of graduate education grantaward number 1144083 national institute of food and agriculture grantaward number 2014- 67012-22272 national institutes of health grantaward number r01gm109499 netherlands organization for scientific research grantaward number 825.11.036handling editor daniel stoufferabstractecologists increasingly report the structures of metacommunities for free-living species yet far less is known about the composition of symbiont communities through space and time.

species turnover was most consistently influenced by spatial and host community components.

201887354-368.1  introduction evidence from human and wildlife systems illustrates how changes in symbiont community composition--including the mutualists com- mensals and parasites that rely on a host--can affect host health and pathogen transmission fierer et al.

2014. similarly altering the skin microbial community of amphibians has shown potential to protect against the deadly fungus batrachochytrium dendrobatidis harris et al.

2015.symbiont communities are well-suited for testing general ecolog- ical patterns and theories such as neutral theory community satu- ration and island biogeography among others dove 2006 krasnov  vinarski 2008 kuris blaustein  alio 1980 kuris  lafferty 1994 poulin 2007 poulin krasnov mouillot  thieltges 2011. understanding the distribution of symbiont communities also car- ries the applied benefit of informing host health and symbiont trans- mission dynamics in wildlife and human systems fierer et al.

2004. by delineating symbiont communities at multiple hierarchical levels communities within and among host individuals host populations or even host communities the application of meta- community tools can be used to answer applied questions related to individual host health and among-host transmission dynamics as well as general ecological questions regarding the structuring of communi- ties johnson et al.

2015 mihaljevic 2012.there are a variety of emerging statistical tools and frameworks to analyse the effects of environmental gradients on free-living and symbiont community composition including the use of advanced joint species distribution models and structural equation models harris 2015 joseph preston  johnson 2016 ovaskainen et al.

