reuteri microencapsulated in yogurt reduce ldl-cholesterol serum total cholesterol andnon-hdl cholesterol l. plantarum capsules reduce serum total cholesterol conclusionsit is evident that gut microbiota isintegral to the homeostatic functions of the body often having a protective role against disease .

as cvd is the number one cause of death globally investigating the gut microbiota as a locus of intervention presents a novel and clinically relevant avenue for future research with vast therapeutic potential.keywords gut microbiota dysbiosis cardiovascular disease probiotics prebioticsintroductiondefinition and introduction to the gut microbiotathe gut microbiota is a collection of microbial populations such as bacteria fungi viruses and parasites that reside within the gut otherwise known as the gastrointestinal gi tract .

establishment of the microbiota begins well before birth which is evident from the assortment of microbiota found in the meconium .the process of birthing introduces a variety of microbes .

in addition the gut microbiota modulates the mucosal production of immunoglobulin a which plays a critical role in maintaining intestinal barrier function .gut dysbiosisgut dysbiosis is an alteration in the composition of the gut microbiota that can result from exposure to several factors such as diet increased stress or levels of inflammatory markers and antibiotic usage .

these options include the administration of pre- and probiotics to fertilize and restore the gut with beneficial microbial populations table .prebioticsamong different environmental factors affecting the human microbiota diet is a major factor which shapes the gut microbiota .

prebiotics are dietary constituents that can cause specific changes in the composition and activity of intestinal microbiota to elicit beneficial effects on the host .prebiotics can incur atheroprotective effects and reduce the risk of cvds by selectively promoting the growth of beneficial gut microbiota .plant polyphenols found in fruits and vegetables have shown to have prebiotic properties .

reuteri ncimb 30242 and l. plantarum cect 7527 7528 and 7529 are amongst the most efficacious lipid-lowering strains demonstrating their viability as a treatment option .table 1. summary of the effects of potential cardiovascular disease cvd treatments targeting gut microbiota composition based on recent studies.treatmentprebioticsprobioticsdefinitionexamples and effectsdietary constituents that fertilize and promote healthy gut microbiota compositionplant polyphenolsfruits and vegetables e.g.

2017 278 277-295.  emoto t. yamashita t. sasaki n. hirota y. hayashi t. so a. kasahara k. yodoi k. matsumoto t. mizoguchi t. analysis of gut microbiota in coronary artery disease patients a possible link between gut microbiota and coronary artery disease.

apples and cardiovascular health--is the gut microbiota a core consideration nutrients 2015 7 3959-3998.  shinohara k. ohashi y. kawasumi k. terada a. fujisawa t. effect of apple intake on fecal microbiota and metabolites in humans.

due to its role in regulating ba signaling reduced bacterial bsh activity can lead to the accumulation of cholesterol promoting the formation of foam cells and ultimately atherosclerotic plaque .trimethylamine-n-oxidein addition to being involved in the metabolism of bas the gut microbiota plays an integral role in the production of tmao--a metabolite derived primarily from dietary phosphatidylcholine and l-carnitine .

the modification of microbiota composition through apple components along with the direct effect of polyphenols may have cardioprotective effects such as reducing inflammation  and total cholesterol levels .inulin in and oligofructose of are polydisperse fructans that have prebiotic properties well-established in the literature .

apples reduce inflammation  and total cholesterol levels  promote bifidobacteria growth dietary fructansfoods high in inulin andor oligofructose promote bifidobacteria growth  restore butyrate-producing bacterial populations beneficial live microorganisms that can colonize the human gut to develop or restore healthy gut microbiota compositionlactobaccillus strainsl.

the foam cells deposit in arterial plaque further contributing to atherosclerosis .the body has internal homeostatic mechanisms such as reverse cholesterol transport rct to counteract the accumulation of excess cholesterol in peripheral tissues.

in particular dysbiosis has been shown to affect the metabolism of bile acids bas and the production of trimethylamine-n-oxide tmao and butyrate .bile acidsbas are synthesized from cholesterol and constitute a major pathway for cholesterol catabolism .

additionally bsh prevents systemic cholesterol accumulation by promoting the de novo synthesis of bas and increased cholesterol efflux by enterocytes and hepatocytes .

