these results confirmed that meat protein intake may maintain a more balanced composition of gut bacteria and reduce the antigen load and inflammatory response from gut bacteria to the host.keywords nmr gut microbiota red meat white meat metabolitesintroductionin recent years excessive intake of meat and meat products has been suggested to be associated with some metabolic disorders tilman and clark 2014. specifically n-nitroso-compounds and heterocyclic amines which were formed during cooking of red meat at high temperatures could be critical factors for an elevated risk of mortality of colorectal cancer pan et al.

2012 bastide et al.

2015. however it is the fact that meat has many biological functions in terms of highly bioavailable nutrients including essential amino acids heme iron and vitamins pereira and vicente 2013.food is a major factor that can shape gut microbiota subramanian et al.

2014. the gastrointestinal tract and residing bacteria have been shown to play a crucial role in extracting and metabolizing dietary ingredients muegge et al.

2011 tyakht et al.

2012 tang et al.

2013. there is about 12-18 g of protein entering into human colon every day consisting of residual dietaryproteins and endogenous enzymes secreted in the small intestine scott et al.

2013. approximately 10 of ingested proteins can reach the colon which is dependent on the type and amount of protein consumed cummings 1997. the residual dietary proteins and endogenous enzymes are the main source of nitrogen for the growth of gut microbiota cummings and macfarlane 1991. amino acids would become energy source in the distal colon hamer et al.

2012. recent studies indicated that the metabolites derived from gut microbiota may have a certain impact on host health for example short chain fatty acids especially butyrate can be served as energy for host tissues flint et al.

2015. on the other hand lipopolysaccharide lps an endotoxin can enter into the circulation and be bound to lipopolysaccharide-binding protein lbp in liver weiss 2003 zhao 2013. the lps-lbp complex further binds to cd14 receptor which mediates the activation of macrophages to produce inflammatory cytokines lukkari et al.

1999.dietary intake influences the structure and activity of the trillions of microorganisms residing in the human gut wu et al.

2011 muegge et al.

2011 david et al.

2014. for example enterotypes were strongly associated with long-term diets particularly protein and animal fat bacteroides vs. carbohydrates prevotella wu et al.

2011. gut microbiota and their metabolites showed differences after intake of casein and plant proteins geypens et al.

