interestingly enough the teabags of ice plant powder in particular those of 4 g l-1 proved to be appropriate and rather practical b.the use of the plant-based-sea water culture media for in situ recovery of the halotolerant microbiome of tested halophytescompared to the chemically-synthetic ccm culture medium supplemented with 3 nacl the plant-based-sea water culture media supported well-developed cfus of halotolerant bacteriafig.

the medium was used as such ccm or amended with nacl 30 g l-1 513 mm identified as ccm30.plant-based-sea water culture media plant juice culture mediathe mature juicy shoots leaves and stems of h. strobilaceumcrystallinum m. forsskaolii or s. pruinosa were sliced and blended for 5 min in a waring blender with the least possible amounts of sea water except for m. crystallinum where no water was added because of its very juice nature.

as to culture media the plant-based-sea water culture medium enriched with either juice or plant powder-teabags of ice plant were as good as the chemically-synthetic ccm culture media and in most cases recov- ered the highest culturable bacterial population.microbiological examination of surface sterilized roots bi.e.

box 81528 aswan egyptc hydrobiology laboratory inland water and lake division national institute of oceanography and fisheries niof 11516 cairo egyptd soils water and environment research institute agricultural research center 12112 giza egypte institute of feed research agricultural research center 12112 giza egyptf department of botany and microbiology faculty of science cairo university 12613 giza egyptg leibniz institute of vegetable and ornamental crops igz 14979 grossbeeren germanyg r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 21 april 2017revised 24 june 2017accepted 26 june 2017available online 27 june 2017keywordshalophyte microbiomeplant-based-sea water culture medium lake mariout alexandria- egypt16s rrna gene and qpcrbacillus spp.

1. very well-established vegetation of the salt-affected environment of lake mariout egypt and cfus development and morphologies of the endo-rhizosphere bacteria endophytes associated to the tested plants a ice plant mesembryanthemum crystallinum b suaeda pruinosa having very thick succulent leaves covered with salt crystals c cfus dilution 10-4 of endophytes of mesembrynthemum crystallinum as developed on agar plates of ccm standard culture medium without ccm or with nacl 30 g l-1 ccm30 plant-based-seawater culture media prepared from juices pj or teabags packed with dehydrated plant powder pp of ice plant d cfus dilution 10-1 of endophytes of suaeda pruinosa as developed on agar plates of 1 the chemically synthetic combined carbon sources medium supplemented with nacl 30 g l-1 ccm30 2 the plant-based seawater culture media prepared from the teabags of the dehydrated powder of ice plant.table 2physico-chemical properties of collected samples representing free soils around tested plants of the salt-affected environment of lake mariout alexandria egypt and physico- chemical properties of the nearby mediterranean sea water.parameterssalt-stressed free soils around the tested plantsmediterranean sea watera and b. samples were obtained by first insertion and sepa- ration of the aerial parts of full-grown plants phyllosphere into sterilized plastic bags.

specific root length srl was assessed as well srl  root length cmroot weight g.statistical analysisanalysis of variance anova and fisher's least significance difference lsd were carried out using statistica v10 statsoft ok usa.resultsin vitro growth of pure isolates of halotolerant rhizobacteria on the plant-based-sea water culture mediapreliminary experiments examined the possible preparation of culture media exclusively based on the crude juices andor pow- ders of tested plants h. strobilaceum s. pruinosa m. forsskaolii and m. crystallinum.

in general the growth index of bacterial isolates measured on the plant-based-sea water culture media was good enough and very much comparable to the standard culture medium ccm with or without salt amendment.

again the tested plant- based-sea water culture media recovered culturable endophytes with densities very much comparable if not exceeding to those developed on the salt-amended chemically-synthetic culture med- ium ccm.the bacterial load of the aerial parts i.e.

this is a strong indication on the capacity together with practicability of the introduced plant-based-sea water culture media to significantly increase cul- turability and recoverability of the in situ microbiome of tested halophytes.characterization and identification of representative halotolerant bacterial isolates secured from various spheres of tested halophytesone hundred forty-six isolates representing phyllosphere 43 isolates ecto-rhizosphere 47 isolates and endo-rhizosphere 56 isolates of the tested halophilic xerophytes were single-colony isolated from cfus developed on various tested culture media.

the crude plant juices as such or diluted with sea water juice diluted 110 120 and 140 with sea water vv were tested as liquid culture media.

this included ccm amended with nacl ccm30 and plant-based-sea water culture media of various concentrations of plant juices juice diluted 110 120 and 140 with sea water v v and plant powder 2 g l-1 and 4 g l-1.

the inter-acting factors include beside plant exudates flux of soluble salts into the rhizosphere under the effect of sea water salts transpiration-driven movement of water nutrient ion uptake and diffusional movement by root creating zones of nutrient depletion diurnal water potential fluctuations in the soil adjacent to roots creation of low o2 concentration zones and change of the ph of the rhizosphere .

when related to the total bacterial numbers measured for suaeda pruinosa roots by quantitative-pcr the proposed culture medium increased culturability 15.3- 19.5 compared to the conventional chemically-synthetic culture medium supplemented with 11.2 or without 3.8 nacl.

in fact such plant teabags culture media do chal- lenge standard chemically-synthetic culture media as they were adequate and capable to recover and mirror the complex and diverse communities of rhizobacteria.

agar culture medium was pre- pared by adding agar 2 wv ph adjusted to 7.0 then autoclavedfor 20 min at 121 degc.plant teabags powder culture mediathe ice plant m. crystallinum was further used for media preparation because of its succulent and juicy nature rich nutri- tional contents  and abundance in the salt-affected sand dune environments of the northern coast of egypt.

