therefore our data indicates that the feces collection methodology proposed is a suitable tool for obtaining culturable bac- teria from mosquitoes.supplementary data to this article can be found online at .conflicts of interestnoneacknowledgmentsthe authors express their gratitude to conselho nacional dedesenvolvimento cientifico e tecnologico cnpq coordenacao de aperfeicoamento de pessoal de nivel superior capes rede de biodiversidade e biotecnologia da amazonia legal bionortecnpq mct fiocruz rondonia fundacao universidade federal de rondonia unir instituto federal de educacao ciencia e tecnologia de rondonia and to rede de plataformas tecnologicas fiocruz.

however it is reasonable to hypothesize that mosquito feces contain microorganisms that are andor were present in the intestine of these insects.the present device for collecting cultivable intestinal microorgan- isms from mosquito feces does not require insect dissection to collect material reducing work and external contamination issues.the feces collection device is based in a modified pvc mosquito cage with 3 compartments namely 1- upper compartment for feeding 2- middle compartment body for maintenance of mosquitoes 3- lowercompartment for collection of feces .the middle compartment is a 10 x 10 cm diameter and height pvc tube screened on both sides with a mosquito-proof nylon net 1.5 mm mesh and a side opening covered by a perforated elastic material for mosquito manipulation.

notea simple methodology to collect culturable bacteria from feces of anopheles darlingi diptera culicidaeandrelisse arruda gabriel sousa ferreira nucia cristiane da silva lima antonio dos santos junior marlon gregori flores custodio najla benevides-matosluiz shozo ozaki rodrigo g. stabeli alexandre a. silvaa universidade federal de rondonia porto velho ro brazilb fundacao oswaldo cruz fiocruz rondonia porto velho ro brazilc instituto federal de rondonia-ifrocampus porto velho calama porto velho ro brazild virginia commonwealth university richmond va usaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords microbiota bacteria mosquito anopheles paratransgenesisa b s t r a c t a simple methodology based in a modified mosquito cage with a petri dish containing culture medium was successfully used as an alternative method to the traditional digestive tract dissection protocol to collect bacteria from the feces of the mosquito anopheles darlingi.microbiota from the gut of anopheles mosquitoes interact with plasmodium the parasite that causes malaria   and it may be used to develop bio- technological tools such as paratransgenic strategies  .

the sterility of internal surface of feces col- lection device was checked after the cleaning and uv treatment using corresponding author at laboratorio de bioecologia de insetos depto de biologia universidade federal de rondonia br 364 km 95 sentido acre porto velho ro cep 76800- 000 brazil.e-mail address a. arruda.received 5 july 2017 received in revised form 31 july 2017 accepted 9 august 20170167-7012c2017elsevierb.v.allrightsreserved.fig.

mosquitoes are introduced into the device through the middle compartment side opening feed in the sucrose solution placed the in the upper com- partment and then release their feces into the lower compartment in- accessible to the mosquitoes that keeps the petri dishes containing lb agar culture medium .mosquitoes were captured in porto velho rondonia state brazil using a hand-held aspirator identified using identification keys .the feces collection device was cleaned using water and neutral liquid soap rinsed with distilled water and then with 70 ethanol for 10 s and rotated after 30 min while drying under uv light inside a microbiological safety cabinet for 1 h. the devices were packed in plastic film prior to use.

1. upper compartment for food supply 2. middle compartment to contain mosquitoes 3. lower compartment for collection of mosquito feces.

we highlight the pioneering study on the experimental transmission of the yellow fever virus from fecal material present in the legs of infected mosquitoes   and recently the study conducted by using the feces of the mosquito anopheles stephensi for xenomonitoring of the nematode brugia malayia and protozoan plasmodium vivax.

the upper side contains cotton soaked with 10 sucrose for mosquito feeding covered by a pvc lid upper compartment preventing any external microorganism con- tamination.

three mosquito-free devices were used as negative controls.petri dishes containing the mosquito feces in lb agar culture were removed from the lower compartment after 24 h and incubated at 37 degc for 24 h .

2. procedure for collecting microorganisms contained in mosquito feces a top view of the middle compartment of the device containing mosquitoes.

the amplicons were purified using the qiaquick gel extraction kit qiagen according to the manufacturer's specifications.sequencing was performed using the sanger method in an abi 3730 dna sequencer from life technologies.

however the lack of information about the mosquito's microbiota in the americas  still limits this strategy in the region which depends on culturable microorganisms from the intestinal mi- crobiome as prerequisite for studies and future genetic manipulations necessary for the execution of the technique  .for the isolation of intestinal microorganisms from mosquitoes the gut is usually dissected by skilled personnel   and prepared for clas- sical microbiological techniques .

c front view of petri dish containing bacterial colonies that grew from mosquito feces.

d partial view of petri dish containing specimens of bacterial colonies that were isolated from mosquito feces.submitted to an initial extension of 94 degc7 min 30 cycles of 94 degc 45 s the annealing temperature was 50 degc30 s 72 degc60 s followed by a final extension of 72 degc10 min.

acinetobacter 6 moraxellaceae staphylococcus 5staphylococcaceae enterobacter 1 klebsiella 1 serratia 9 enterobacteriaceae supplementary table 1. isolates with less than 99 confidence were not presented and will be reevaluated.the isolation of bacteria from mosquito's feces for microbiological analysis has received little attention.

