published 2017. accessed march 2 2017.iterative fecal microbiota transplantations for eradicating digestive colonization with carbapenemase-producing enterobacteriaceae is it worth itrecent review of the literature demonstrated that according to us-based studies the percentage of cpe isolates that could be associated with the community ranged from 5.6 to 10.8.3 we have recently demonstrated the less effective effect of fecal microbiota transplantation fmt on cpe compared to vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre fecal carriage.4 those results are consistent with another recent study5 conducted in 6 patients colonized with cpe and showing an eradication of the colonization in only 2 of these 6 patients.

bacterial identification of cpe colonies was controlled using matrix-assisted laser desorptionionization time-of-flight massto the editor--carbapenemase-producing enterobacteriaceae cpe have emerged as a major source of bacterial resistance and their dissemination is a serious public health threat.1 furthermore those bacteria can disseminate outside the hospital setting.

j clin nurs 2011213-4 424-436.trubiano j phillips r. antimicrobial stewardship's new weapon a review of antibiotic allergy and pathways to 'de-labeling.

j infect dis 2017215s28-s36.palacios-baena zr oteo j conejo c et al.

is faecal microbiota transplantation an option to eradicate highly drug-resistant enteric bacteria carriage j hosp infect 201795 433-437.bilinski j grzesiowski p sorensen n et al.

one hypothesis is that a protocol including iterative fmt separated by a several-day latency could increase the effectiveness of theprocedure.our objective was to evaluate the impact of iterative fmt for the clearance of cpe carriage in our mouse model of digestive colonization.

stool samples were seeded on agar media chromid carba biomerieux france after serial dilutions for cpe screening.

a large study including 34 hospitals in spain demonstrated that a significant proportion of patients identi- fied as colonized or infected with cpe during hospitalization probably acquired this organism in a nursing home during the period preceding their hospital admission.2 in addition aspectroscopy maldi-tof ms vitek ms biomerieux.

10evaluate the impact of the composition of the transplanted fecal material on the fmt outcome in terms of cpe eradication.

a p value  .05 was considered statistically significant.the results are presented in figure 1. overall by consider- ing the placebo effect corresponding to the natural clearance of cpe digestive colonization of mice the iterative fmt series demonstrated a moderate impact on the decolonization kinetics p  .22. however by considering the difference between the fmt protocol and the placebo at the end of the follow-up period the decolonization rates were clearly different 7 of 14 50 and 3 of 14 21 respectively.

moreover the uncertainty of the repeatability of this murine experiment in humans must be considered.the iterative fmt allowed the eradication of cpe in 50 of colonized mice which can be considered as a moderately convincing result.

however iterative fmt is conceivable for patients hospitalized in long-term-care facilities or for the residents in nursing homes in contexts of uncontrolled cross-transmission during certain outbreaks of cpe carriage and if the fmt are administered orally.

j infect prev 2011126-10.ladenheim d rosembert d hallam c micallef c. antimicrobial stewardship the role of the nurse.

am j infect control 201341365-367.lindberg m skytt b hogman m carlsson m. the multidrug- resistant bacteria attitude questionnaire validity and understanding of responsibility for infection control in swedish registered district haematology and infection nurses.

j infect 201672152-160.kelly am mathema b larson el.

