moxalactam is an oxa-b-lactam antibiotic that inactivates b-lactamase and also is a broad spectrum antibiotic that works against gram-positive and gram-negative anaer- obic and aerobic bacteria especially gram-negative bacillus such as enterobacteriaceae.in our study the combination of the classical b-lactam antibiotic penicillin and the new synthetic b-lactam antibiotic moxalactam penicillin-moxalactam and the combination of the extended-spectrum penicillin-derivative piperacillin and the b-lactamase inhibitor tazobactam piperacillin-tazobactam.

the propor- tion of gram-positive bacteria significantly increased in infants after treatment with piperacillin-tazobactam in this study which is consistent with the potent activity of this antibiotic against gram-negative bacilli.in addition to the composition of gut microbiota the metabolites of gut microbiota were also affected by antibiotic treatment in this study and this effect was dependent on the duration and type of the antibiotics used.

first both antibiotic treatment groups in this study were not sampled after day 7 and therefore the long-term effects of antibiotic treatments on gut microbiota could not be determined.

received 18 july 2016accepted 13 july 2017 published xx xx xxxxopeneffects of one-week empirical antibiotic therapy on the early development of gut microbiota and metabolites in preterm infantsdanping zhu1234 sa xiao1234 jialinyu12345 qing ai1234yu he1234 chen cheng1234 yunhui zhang1234 yun pan1234the early postnatal period is the most dynamic and vulnerable stage in the assembly of intestinal microbiota.

although the antibiotic treated preterm infants have no such clinical manifestations the activity of propanoate metabolism was much lower in pt and pm groups thanthat in the antibiotic-free group on d7 indicating that the physiological metabolism is abnormal after antibiotic treatment in preterm infants.we also observed that the penicillin and cephalosporin biosynthesis pathways were significantly different among the three groups on both d3 and d7 after birth.

in our study the activity of the penicillin and cephalosporin biosynthesis pathways was higher in the af group than that in the antibiotic treatment groups suggesting that the function of the peni- cillin and cephalosporin producer species decreased in the antibiotic treatment groups.

antibiotic weight-watching slimming down on antibiotic use in a nicu.

we hypothesized that the prolonged antibiotic therapy would affect the early development of intestinal microbiota and their metabolites.

to test this hypothesis we analyzed the stool microbiota and metabolites in 36 preterm babies with or without antibiotic treatment.

these findings suggest that prolonged antibiotic therapy affects the early development of gut microbiota in preterm infants which should be considered when prescribing antibiotics for this population.with an estimated average of 1014 bacterial cells and over 400 species residing in an adult the gut microbial com- munity is indispensable for human health.

however the effects of antibiotic use on the gut microbiota and metabolites during the first week after birth remain undefined.

the microbiota remained stable within the first three days following antibiotic treatment but changed significantly after one-week treatment most notably with an increase in the composition of some pathogenic bacteria.

regardless of the antibiotic type there was a decrease in the diversity of gut microbiota in both treatment groups pm and pt groups compared to the antibiotic-free control group.

significant changes were observed in the composition of gut metabolites as well as the representation of metabolic pathways only after one-week treatment.it has been reported that a decrease in the diversity of gut microbiota could be detected at week one and week two after stopping a less than three days antibiotic treatment in infants but at week three the microbial diversity in these infants was restored to the same level as week one .

these findings suggest that antibiotic treatment for a short duration may have only mild and temporary effects on the gut microbiota and their metabolites.

