fungal species found in cheese are known to exert positive effects but some species as penicillium commune  or debaryomyces hansenii at high concentration  could be deleterious.

nevertheless the presence of cryptococcus is not unusual as this species was reported as key species in the surface-ripened cheese  and other dairy products  .

unusual species including clavispora lu- sitaniae kazachstania unispora and cladosporium cladosporioides were also detected but their origins remain to be ascertained.

large differences from one en- vironment to another one were reported and the number of species occupying such niches can reach hundreds even thousands  .

complex ecosystems are not easy to rebuild in vitro because of the non-cultivable hallmark of some species  .

this drawback avoids therefore to understand the role of each species.

the 5.8s rdna is highly conserved and could permit accurate taxo- nomic information conversely to the its1 and its2 regions which are highly variable give the species status .

besides the aforementioned reports portrayed some unusual bacterial species and yeasts with beneficial properties.

corresponding author.e-mail address d. drider.received 20 february 2017 received in revised form 21 july 2017 accepted 24 july 20170168-1605c2017elsevierb.v.allrightsreserved.fungal microbiota distribution at the species level in the core of the tomme d'orchies cheese according to the period of ripening.

a precise quantification by qpcr of each sample in the li- brary was performed using the kapa sybrr fast qpcr kit kapa- biosystems wilmington usa before normalization pooling and se- quencing on a miseq sequencer using v3 reagents illumina usa.bioinformatics analysissequence reads processing were used as reported by using mothur software package v1.35  and uchime algorithm table 2fungal microbiota distribution at the species level on the rind of the tomme d'orchies cheese according to the period of ripening.

all the biosample raw reads were deposited at the national center for biotechnology information ncbi and now avail- able under the bioproject id prjna355071.resultsglobal cheese contentthe metagenetic study underpinned fungal otus encompassing family genera and species taxonomic levels.

a total of 30 otus con- taining 4 genera and 26 species were observed for this cheese.

molds were composed of 2 genera and 4 species.

these two species represent note- worthy 98.79 to 99.55 of the total sequences allocated for the fungal content.

lipolytica and g. geotrichum species were also prevalent in therind.

