apart from the morphological differences between the proximal and distal colon the contents too are dissimilar in their consistency and humidity the proximal colon content is liquid whereas the contents of distal colon normally form pellets with a firmer consistency.

in collapsed proximal colon bacteria mixed with mucus remain present in the lumen of folded tissue.that the distal colon contains a mostly transient microbiota confined to the faeces which means that most of the resident gut microbiota is hosted higher in the gut in the proximal colon and cecum as we have indeed observed.

c abhe stained sections of full and empty mouse distal colon corresponding to the schematic overview of a.colon is only observed further towards the transition to distal colon after the chyme has been shaped into a rudimentary pellet under influence of water extraction by normal functioning of the colon fig.

these results obtained from faecal material illustrate the organisation of the contents of distal colon which does not necessarily reflect the situation in the proximal colon.

in contrast to the situation in colon containing faeces we have not observed bacteria-colonised mucusfigure 2. abhe stained longitudinal section of distal rat colon containing faecal pellets.

this faecal mucus layer has the same appearance and general thickness as the one observed previously figs and  in distal colon which covers faecal pellets and separates contents from the epithelium.figure 3. abhe stained transversal sections of distal rat and mouse colon without faeces.

a close-up of rat empty distal colon b fish staining indicating the absence of bacteria in the lumen of collapsed rat colon.

e fish staining of rat colon containing faeces bacteria red nuclear staining dapi blue serving as a positive control.mucus barrier in proximal colon is affected by consistency of contents.

the colonic contents were seen to form the first pellet in the distal end of the proximal colon on the transition towards the distal colon.

in mostly or completely collapsed proximal colon bacteria-colonised mucus was found in contact with the intestinal tissue unseparated by a sterile mucus barrier figs and  in contrast to the situation described earlier for distal colon.

in full proximal colon we observed bacteria in contact with the epithelium too with the microbiota present in an increasing gradient towards the tissue figs and  the highest concentration of bacteria was present around and especially below the tissue folds specific to the proximal colon.discussionlongitudinal sections of distal colon reveal that the colonic load is a determining factor in the organisation of the colonic mucus.

this heavily diminished presence of microbes in empty distal colon is of relevance to the host because in the absence of digesta a large microbial population could be deleterious in the distal colon.

that the proximal and distal colon do not have an equally thick mucus barrier has also been noted by ermund et al.. the use of transversal sections through a formed pellet has likely prevented them from observing the lack of a mucus barrier in the proximal colon further towards the cecum.

to sum up in the early proximal colon production of mucus does not lead to a sterile layer instead mixing into the liquid contents while in the distal colon mucus excretion leads to a layer covering the drier faecal pellet.because there is a difference in organisation of colonic mucus depending on the location and local stage of transit the functions we can attribute to colonic mucus secretions depend on these same factors.

the apparent lack of these effects in these physiological conditions in the proximal colon warrants further investigation.our mucio approach to histology in combination with multiple orientation sectioning has allowed for a comprehensive overview of the evolution of the mucus barrier throughout the colon.

