kox1 was found to be lytic only on k. oxytoca strains and didn't lyse k. pneumoniae escherichia coli or pseudomonas aeruginosa strains.the phage was able to lyse five of the six k. oxytoca strains isolated in this study these being kleb003 kleb004 kleb008 and kleb010 as well as the atcc obtained k. oxytoca.

the uniqueness of this phage is under- lined by the fact that less than 30 of its orfs have similarity to genes with any known functionality.while it has been reported that phage isolated on and lytic against k. pneumoniae were able to lyse strains of k. oxytoca    kox1 was specific for k. oxytoca bacteria and did not readily lyse the k. pneumoniae strains tested here.

while several phages that are capable of lysing k. oxytoca have been reported these have been propagated on k. pneumoniae and suggested to have a host range that extends to k. oxytoca  .

these k. oxytoca phage formulations were then assayed and shown to be capable of releasing the phage so that there was lysis of the underlying k. oxytoca bacteria in an in-vitro model.the potential benefit of such formulations in the treatment of antibiotic induced k. oxytocamediated colitis and diarrhoea is discussed.material and methodsbacterial cultures and identificationklebsiella cultures had been previously isolated from human subjects for other purposes.all samples were obtained with oral consent de-identified and handled according to the la trobe university ethics committee.

a feature unique to k. oxytoca strains which is not seen in k. pneumoniae is the capacity to degrade pectin via excretion of polygalacturo- nases and so as a final differentiation between these species pcr was performed to test for the presence of the polygalacturonase pehx gene .isolation and purification of phagea lawn of k. oxytoca was prepared using a cotton swab then a 10 ml sample of wastewater col- lected from the bendigo wastewater treatment plant bendigo australia was placed directly onto the lawn surface and the plate incubated for 2 days.

the k. oxytoca associated colitis and diarrhoea therefore can significantly decrease the quality of life of the patient and their capacity to tolerated antibiotic regimens  .a factor that may contribute to the haemorrhagic colitis and diarrhoea caused by k. oxytoca following antibiotic treatment is that this bacterium is known to carry genes for resistance to an array of antibiotics  .

pcr amplification of the pehx gene was observed in only the k. oxytoca stains .isolation of the phage and its genomefollowing screening with samples from wastewater treatment plants visible lytic plaques were detected on kleb010 one of the k. oxytoca strains identified in this study.

only values of less than 10-4 were considered significant note the orfs not listed in this table code for proteins with unknown function as determined by blast analysis.kox1 formulation into solid dosage forms and capacity to lyse k. oxytoca in vitrokox1 phage were formulated into suppositories and troches which were placed upon lawns of k. oxytoca bacteria on culture plates.

the ingestion of troches or administra- tion of suppositories with k. oxytoca lytic phages as the medicament could prove a useful way to modulate intestinal flora and assist in reducing overgrowth of antibiotic resistant k. oxytoca strains during antibiotic therapy.

if the oral route of delivery for the k. oxytoca phage via troches proves difficult then administering the phage in a supposi- tory as we have formulated here may be preferable.conclusionwe report here the isolation and characterization of a unique lytic phage for k. oxytoca which is capable of being stably formulated into solid dosage forms.

this study may provide the basis for clinical testing of these k. oxytoca phage formula- tions in order to modulate the intestinal microbiota during antibiotic therapy and thus reduce the gi effects associated with k. oxytoca overgrowth.supporting informations1 table.

such quantitation was not possible with the phage troche as there was precipitation of material during the solu- bilisation process.resultsidentification of klebsiella strainsfive k. oxytoca and five k. pneumoniae strains were identified as detailed in .

k. oxytoca strains were indole positive whereas k. pneumoniae strains were negative.

all sequence files are available from the ncbi database accession number ky780482.funding one of the authors htc has a commercial affiliation htc's employer australian clinical labs provided support in the form of salaries for this author but did not have any additional role in the study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation ofaimto isolate and characterize bacteriophage lytic for the opportunistic pathogen klebsiella oxytoca and their formulation into a range of solid dosage forms for in-vitro testing.methods and resultswe report the isolation genomic and functional characterization of a novel bacteriophage lytic for klebsiella oxytoca which does not infect the closely related klebsiella pneumoniae.

these bacteri- ophage formulations were stable for at least 49 days at 4c.conclusionsthe successful in-vitro assay of these formulations here suggests that they could potentially be tested in-vivo to determine whether such a therapeutic approach could modulate the gut microbiome and control klebsiella oxytoca overgrowth during antibiotic therapy regimes.significance and impact of the studythis study reports a novel bacteriophage specific for klebsiella oxytoca which can be formu- lated into solid dosage forms appropriate for potential delivery in testing as a therapy to mod- ulate gut microbiome during antibiotic therapies.the manuscript.

