the ones that are unable to produce folic acid can get it from folic acid producing neighbouring microorganisms.metformin can be affecting some types of intestinal bacteria that produce folic acid.

''metformin-resistant folic acid producing probiotics or folic acid against metformin's adverse effects like diarrheaabdullah olgunistanbul kemerburgaz university faculty of pharmacy department of biochemistry kartaltepe mah.

i propose that some beneficial microorgan- isms that produce folic acid and are resistant to metformin's folic acid synthesis inhibitory effect can be used as probiotics in the pre- vention of metformin's gastrointestinal adverse effects .

metformin-sensitive folic acid producing gut bacteria can be detected a made resistant and more folic acid producer b and used as a probiotic to prevent metformin-associated gi adverse effects c.folic acid is required in the nutrition of bacteria.

folic acid can also be supplemented as a chemical drug to prevent adverse effects of metformin.evaluation of the hypothesisfrom worms to humansmetformin's role in a simple model organism can provide an insight into management of metformin treatment in diabetes patients.

1. generation of metformin-resistant folic acid producing bacteria to prevent metformin's adverse effects.

the mechanisms of theseadverse effects are unknown .hypothesisfolic acid producing probiotics that are resistant to metformin can be considered as a strategy against gastrointestinal adverse effects of metformin.

since it is a spore-forming bacterium  it has the advantage to be given to patients as spores that are resistant to stomach acid and have longer shelf life.metformin resistant folic acid producing probiotics can be iso- lated from gut microbiota or other environments.

their folic acid synthesis ability and resistance to metformin can be ameliorated by artificial evolutionselection or convenient genetic techniques if needed.

metformin was also reported to decrease the absorption of folic acid .0306-9877c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.fig.

in human gut some of the bacteria are able to produce folic acid but not others .

therefore the bacteria in need of folic acid for growth will not grow.

this can disturb normal microbiome bal- ance in a similar manner to antibiotics-associated gastrointestinal side effects.published information was searched by using the following key- words with different combinations metformin folic acid folate diarrhea probiotics intestinibacter c. elegans microbiota micro- biome  and database sources ncbi pubmed and google scholar.consequences of the hypothesis and discussionthese proposed strategies can help medication adherence in patients who will gain huge benefits by continuing metformin.

no 11 34144 bakirkoy istanbul turkeya r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 12 april 2017accepted 7 july 2017a b s t r a c t metformin first line medication in the treatment of type2 diabetes by millions of patients worldwide causes gastrointestinal adverse effects i.e.

this can disturb the balance of gut microbiota and cause gastrointestinal adverse effects by altering folate production of some types of bacteria and suppress their growth.

