22 found that plasma endothelin-1 levels increased whereas plasma sod activity decreased with aging coinci- dentally with impaired endothelium-dependent artery dila- tation and no release by rat aortic endothelial cells 22. interestingly they also found that sod activity and relaxa- tions to acetylcholine were preserved in femoral arteries indicating a heterogeneity in endothelial function and oxi- dative stress related to size and sites of the arteries 22. further support to the pivotal role of sod in aging was provided by animal studies showing that sod mimetics re- stored endothelial function in elderly mice 198 362. en- dothelial dysfunction by aging can also be dependent on gpx regulation 138 as shown in animals knockout for gpx which displayed impaired no bioavailability in elderly compared with younger animals and eventually vascular dysfunction 259.others factors potentially contributing to endothelial dys- function by aging are related to a link among short length of telomeres senescence and endothelial dysfunction 415. the exact mechanism through which telomeres would de- termine endothelial dysfunction and cvd remains unclear.

these modifications may also negatively influence platelet andclotting activation and endothelial function eventually con- curring to cardiovascular complications.in this comprehensive review we analyzed the mecha- nisms of atherothrombosis in the aging process focusing onimbalance between oxidative stress and antioxidant sta- tus as factors favoring atherosclerosis and thrombosis in an elderly population ii alterations in platelet and clotting activation and endothelial function in relation to oxidative stress modifications by aging and iii current and future therapeutic antioxidant and anti-thrombotic strategies in the elderly.oxidative stress and agingthe main biological consequence of aging is a functional decline in cells tissues and organs functions 319. under normal conditions cells can go through a limited number of divisions on reaching the end of their replicative lifespan 137. this phenomenon is defined as replicative senescence rs and largely depends on alterations in dna replication that eventually affect chromosomal stability and genome function 187. the rs is mediated by several signaling cascades that are linked to the activation of tumor suppres- sing proteins such as p53p21 and results in shortening of telomeres 316 that are located at chromosome ends to prevent dna damage 316. moreover cell exposition to different agents damaging dna such as ros uva and uvb results in reduced mitotic ability and increased signs of senescence.

this second phenomenon is termed as stress- induced premature senescence sips 316.thus the aging process is the result of physiological rs and external sips that concur together in accelerating the natural progression of aging 187. in accordance senescent markers including discoidin domain receptor family member 1 kinasessenescence-associated b-galactosidase p53p21 and telomere dysfunction were detected in various tissues from elderly indi- viduals 316.although a unique comprehensive theory for the initiation and progression of cell senescence and aging is far from being elaborated several systems including mitochondrial dys- function protein glycation deregulation of immune system hormonal changes gene modifications dysfunction telomere attrition and redox stress have been identified so far 111.oxidative damage represents the most well-documented subset among aging-associated damage.

thus klotho-null mice phenotypes display simi- larities with premature human aging including accelerated atherosclerosis 188. once activated klotho protein induces mnsod and sod2 biosynthesis thereby increasing the an- tioxidant cell defense 176 303 412. moreover klotho influences the intracellular signaling pathways involved in oxidative stress responses and aging via inhibition of p53 p21cip 81.the gene regulator histone deacetylase sirtuin sirt is also implicated in the aging process.

who showed lower circulating pc in patients at risk of cvd with an in- verse correlation between pc and artery dysfunction 144. other reports in patients at risk of cvd supported these findings and also underscored that pc lowering is more marked in an elderly population with concomitant athero- sclerotic risk factors than in apparently healthy subjects in whom such pc decline by aging is not evident 136. ex- perimental studies are in agreement with this negative in- terplay between pc and aging as depicted by experiments reporting lower bm-derived pc in aging apoe-- mice along with a positive impact of chronic treatment with bm-derived pc in the atherosclerosis progression 301. however the clinical relevance of these findings in human atherosclerosis is still speculative and needs to be further investigated.

serum and visceral levels of a-tocopherol were found to be decreased by aging in rats 169 whereas another study failed to confirm this relation- ship 252. in accordance with this last finding decreased levels of ascorbic acid and gsh but no differences of a- tocopherol by aging have been reported 292.vitamin c. ascorbic acid vitamin c is a hydrophilic vitamin that interferes with several mechanisms involved in the atherosclerotic process mostly by preventing no degra- dation 399 and ldl oxidation 161. ascorbic acid may preserve no by several mechanisms including direct re- duction of nitrite to no release of no from nitrosothiols scavenging o - 231 and sparing endothelial cell-derived no by recycling tetrahydrobiopterin 139 231. ascorbic acid plays a protective role against atherosclerotic burden by decreasing endothelial cells' ability to oxidase ldl 225. this effect is also achieved by influencing a-tocopherol metabolism as depicted by in vitro experiments where ascorbic acid restored the reduced form of a-tocopherol in human monocytemacrophages ultimately preventing ldl oxidation 161. combined deficiency of vitamin e and c increased lipid peroxidation doubled plaque size and in- creased plaque macrophage content by two- to threefold in apoe-- mice 16. the progression of the atherosclerotic plaque was also higher in apoe-- and gulonolactone oxi- dase-- mice that prevented animals from synthesizing their own vitamin c 16. ascorbic acid concentration seems to be affected by the aging process.

this finding is apparently in contrast with a previous study which measured serum txb2 in 177 patients with atherosclerotic risk factors and found no difference according to aging however small sample size and number of elderly patients limit data inter- pretation 5. to address the relationship between platelet activation and aging we measured 11-dehydro-txb2 in 833 patients affected by af which is associated with severalatherosclerotic risk factors and poor vascular outcomes such as thromboembolic stroke and mi 269. a cross-sectional analysis of life decades demonstrated that urinary 11-dehydro- txb2 increased by aging with a significant elevation at the age of 74 years 269. of note during a follow-up of 5 years patients with elevated txb2 experienced more cves compared with those with lower txb2.

however it was suggested that cardiovascular risk factors may accelerate telomere shortening through increased oxi- dative stress 415. also the human abdominal aorta 14 displays typical alterations of senescent cells such as age- dependent telomere erosion and consequent reduction of telomere length 14.doppler ultrasonography is a first-level examination to assess the atherosclerotic burden one surrogate marker of atherosclerosis is the carotid artery imt which was directly correlated with the occurrence of cves such as stroke and mi 215. there is evidence that carotid imt increases by aging 228 373 393 as reported by the bogalusa study which compared the progression of imt in childhood andadults with cardiovascular risk factors 202. autoptic studies showed that aortic imt increased with aging even in popu- lations at a low risk of atherosclerosis 387 and in accor- dance with this the baltimore longitudinal study on aging demonstrated a two- to threefold carotid imt increase from 20 to 90 years of age 106 192. an increase of aging-related carotid imt in the general population was also confirmed by other studies that estimated a rate of imt growing 0.01 mm year 102 149 366.there is evidence that an imbalance between ros for- mation and detoxification 10 416 is associated with imt increase.

aging is associated with overproduction of reactive oxygen species ros which may affect clotting and platelet activation and impair endothelial function thus predisposing elderly patients to thrombotic complications.recent advances there is increasing evidence to suggest that aging is associated with an imbalance between oxidative stress and antioxidant status.

although its impact on cellular function is only one of the proposed mechanisms of senescence it seems to be an attractive one as it connects several different mechanisms such as modifications in the regulation of gene expression and mitochondrial dysfunction 50 122.the theory of ros overproduction as the main mechanism involved in aging by inducing cumulative damage was first proposed in 1956 135. according to this hypothesis an increase in pro-oxidant pathways would promote the aging process which conversely would be delayed by an im- provement in antioxidant defenses.the validity of this hypothesis was explored in experi- mental models where the effect of endogenous antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase sod catalase glutathione peroxidase gpx and thioredoxin was investi- gated.

an increase in lifespan was observed in flies over- expressing copper-zinc sod cuznsod an enzyme that converts superoxide anion o - into hydrogen peroxide h2o2 and catalase which changes h2o2 into water 262 363. moreover reduced levels of gpx an enzyme that re- duces lipid hydroperoxides to their corresponding alcohols and h2o2 to water and of thioredoxin that possesses a similar activity were observed in an animal model of aging 64. transgenic and knockout mouse models of antioxidants provided conflicting evidence 328. for example knockout mice models of gpx1 and sod were associated to reduced lifespan 79 96 whereas transgenic mice overexpressing sod and catalase showed an unmodified lifespan 275.growing evidence suggests a role for pro-oxidant systems in the aging process.

pro-oxidant enzymes producing ros such as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate nadph oxidase nox myeloperoxidase  mpo and un- coupled nitric oxide synthase nos mediate important bi- ological functions by regulating the activity of several intracellular pathways involved in cell growth apoptosis survival metabolism and migration all of which are altered during the aging process.among ros o - plays a fundamental role as it reacts with nitric oxide no thus lowering its activity andor concentration 199. reduced no bioavailability influences migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells vsmcs which is one of the early atherosclerotic changes 199. moreover o - upregulates the nuclear factor kappa- light-chain-enhancer of activated b cells nf-jb which in turn induces the production of atherogenic cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor a tnfa interleukin 6 monocyte chemoattractant protein mcp-1 and adhesion molecules 254.a specific interplay between ros gene transcription and subsequent signal transduction seems to be implicated in aging.

further in p66shc-- mice a significant reduction of systemic and tissue oxidative stress along with a 30 prolongation in lifespan was observed 236 253.a synthetic scheme of the mechanisms reported earlier is reported in figure 1.atherothrombosis in elderly clinical studiesobservational studies in the general population or in pa- tients with cvd documented a progressive increased inci- dence of acute vascular events by aging 90. in the elderly a higher prevalence of atherosclerotic risk factors including arterial hypertension diabetes mellitus dm and metabolic syndrome  mets might partly account for this phenomenon 50. of note is that there is no standardized definition of ''old population'' as changes occurring by aging are not linear and often depend on several factors including environmentfig.

according to the ''uncoupling to survive'' theory this mechanism could be important in minimizing oxidative damage to dna and in slowing aging 35. thus ''mild mitochondrial uncoupling'' has been pro- posed as a mechanism to reduce upstream ros production it has been suggested that ''mild mitochondrial uncoupling'' could be a more effective therapeutic strategy than removing ros once they are formed 69.clotting activationthe risk of thrombosis in the artery and venous circulation typically increases with aging and it is responsible for an enhanced incidence of cvd and venous thromboembolism in the elderly population 180. activation of the clotting sys- tem is relevant for thrombus growth for both arterial and venous thrombosis.

moreover studies demonstrating that changes of the clotting system by aging are associated with an en- hanced thrombotic risk are lacking.increased activation of the clotting system by aging might be attributed to changes of coagulation factors anticoagu- lants and the fibrinolytic system.

