t4 t8 or mix for 1 week followed by a week of s. aureus and then normal feeding for a week and b the treatment group t containing mice fed with s. aureus for 1 week followed by a week of lactobacillus spp.

this results in a lower number of salmonella in the feces lab can inhibit the growth of escherichia coli proteus vulgaris enterococcus faecalis staphylococcus aureus and other pathogens under suitable ph conditions this may be due to lactate production  .there have been few studies regarding the ability of lab to ameliorate s. aureus infections.

aureus is a major human pathogen that causes intestinal infections and several molecules produced by s. aureus cause a strong inflammatory response on the cell surface .

showed that oral administration of a probiotic resulted in an important yet transient alteration in the small intestinal microbiota that should confer a beneficial effect on the host based on our results mixed lab have a potentiallyprobiotic effect on the intestinal microbiome of mice infected with s. aureus.conclusionmixed lab restored normal growth in mice following s. aureus infection increased levels of the immune-related anti-inflammatory factor il-4 and promoted secretion of siga.

our results show that lab can prevent liver enlargement in mice infected with s. aureus.th1 mediates cellular immunity which is able to cap- ture intracellular bacteria viruses and cancer inducing theserum ifn- content is higher in mice following s. aureuscont8secretion in spleen cells of mice infected with s. cytokinemodmixour study serum ifn-aureus while0pl.0a0n1tarum strains m0.i0x00m1ixed lab.

s. kemgang s. kapila v. p. shanmugam s. reddi and r. kapila fermented milk with probiotic lactobacillus rham- nosus s1k3 mtcc5957 protects mice from salmonella by enhancing immune and nonimmune protection mechanisms at intestinal mucosal level journal of nutritional biochemistry vol.

treatment with mixed lactic acid bacteria increased the anti-inflammatory factor and the secretion of siga in the intestine of mice infected with staphylococcus aureus and inhibited inflammation.introductionstaphylococcus aureus is a major cause of human infection worldwide is a common pathogen in nosocomial infec- tions and is a zoonotic pathogen .

s. aureus secretes iga hydrolase which helps to inhibit bacterial adhesion many lactic acid bacteria lab are probiotics that regu- late the body's immune system and help to prevent infection 10. studies have shown that some probiotics promotecan cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome or evenlocal immunity and ifn- production while inhibiting il-death.

s. aureus can express a variety of exotoxins that attack the host immune system the ratio of th1 and th2 cells is important for normal immune response  meanwhile in an adaptive immune response ifn-4 secretion associated with allergies lactic acid bacteria induce siga secretion inhibit the invasion of pathogenic bacteria and protect the host intestinal tract .

s. aureus infection can induce the release of as.

siga which is produced by the intestinal mucosa can inhibit the invasion of bacteria canwith s. aureus.

l. plantarum was mixed with other lab to study the effects on immune-related inflammatory factors siga levels and microbiome composition in mice infected with s. aureus.

the mice in the treatment group were infected with s. aureus for 1 week and then intervened with single and mixed lactic acid bacteria.

the positive control group was given s. aureus for 1 week.2.4.

s. aureus was delivered at a dose of 10 mlkg.

