tar- get genes in positive controls including four tet genes two sul genes and class 1 integrons were obtained from compost dna extracts after pcr amplification and then cloned into escherichia coli dh5a takara.

mass spectral acquisition was performed in the positive ion mode by ap- plying multiple reactions that monitored two fragmenta- tion transitions per compound--to provide a high degree of sensitivity and specificity.real-time quantitative pcr q-pcr of argsfour tetracycline resistance genes tetm tetw teto and tetq two sulfonamide resistance genes suli and sulii and the integrase gene of class 1 integrons inti1 were quantified using q-pcr.

the expression of sulfonamide and fluoroquinolone resistance genes increased in the thermo- philic phase and then decreased to initial levels whereas the tetracycline resistance genes tetm-tetw-teto-tets expression decreased throughout.

microbiome 2017 5103doi 10.1186s40168-017-0324-0microbial phylogeny determines transcriptional response of resistome to dynamic composting processescheng wang1 da dong21 p. j. strong3 weijing zhu1 zhuang ma1 yong qin1 and weixiang wu1abstractbackground animal manure is a reservoir of antibiotic resistance genes args that pose a potential health risk globally especially for resistance to the antibiotics commonly used in livestock production such as tetracycline sulfonamide and fluoroquinolone.

this was achieved by integrating metagenomic and time series metatranscriptomic data for the evolving microbial community during composting.results composting noticeably reduced the aggregated expression level of the manure resistome which primarily consisted of genes encoding for tetracycline vancomycin fluoroquinolone beta-lactam and aminoglycoside resistance as well as efflux pumps.

the expression of tetracycline resistance genes tetm-tetw-teto-tets decreased during composting where distinctive shifts in the four phases of composting were related to variations in antibiotic concentration.

composting had no effect on the expression of sulfonamide and fluoroquinolone resistance genes which increased slightly during the thermophilic phase and then decreased to initial levels.

hosts for sulfonamide and fuoroquinolone resistance genes changed notably in phylognetic structure and underwent an initial increase and then a decrease in abundance.

by contrast hosts for tetracycline resistance genes tetm-tetw-teto-tets exhibited a constant decline through time.conclusions the transcriptional patterns of a core resistome over the course of composting were identified and microbial phylogeny was the key determinant in defining the varied transcriptional response of resistome to this dynamic biological process.

it reduced the risk of emerging environmental contaminants such as tetracyclines tetracycline resistance genes and clinically relevant pathogens carrying args as well as rna viruses and bacteriophages.keywords resistome response metatranscriptomics metagenomics composting args mges correspondence equal contributors1zhejiang province key laboratory for water pollution control and environmental safety technology institute of environmental science andtechnology zhejiang university 866 yuhangtang road hangzhou 310058 chinafull list of author information is available at the end of the articlec the authors.

early studies circumstantially indicated that livestock ma- nure was a hot spot for bacteria carrying a diverse set of antibiotic resistance genes args  .

disposing of raw manure could promote the transfer of genes for antibiotic resist- ance .

although composting does degrade antibiotics and reduce args   most studies have focused on a few well-studied types of args such as tetra- cycline and sulfonamide resistance genes.

the lack of comprehensive antibiotic resistance studies therefore provide a strong impetus to better understand the genetic context and fate of the complete resistome comprising all of the antibiotic resistance genes and their precursors  during composting as well as critically evaluate the potential of this biological treatment to attenuate anti- biotic resistance determinants and limit their dissemin- ation.

with the in- creasing detection of args in environments without an- thropogenic effects  metatranscriptomic analysis is urgently required to determine whether those poten- tially functional genes predicted from metagenomes were partially or fully expressed.

