consequently these culture independent techniques are expected to maximize our understanding of different bacterial phyla as well as potential host-microbiome interactions .small intestinal bacterial overgrowthsmall intestinal bacterial overgrowth sibo is a heterogeneous syndrome characterized by large numbers of colonic-type flora in the small intestine .

in keeping with the latter hypothesis abnormal overgrowth of colonic type bacteria within the small bowel sibo could derange intestinal barrier integrity due to either direct bacterial injury to the tight junctions- the most essential component of apical junction complex - of the small bowel mucosal layer under expression of structural trans- membrane proteins i.e.

we assume that the prevalence of sibo in fd patients is equal to that of ibs subjects approximately 15 according to published data from our database and the prevalence of sibo in the healthy controls group is 5. duodenal aspirates will becultured and will also be analyzed by q-pcr for total bacterial andsmithii loads.

these new data suggest that we may have been looking at the wrong organ and perhaps the time has come to focus our attention elsewhere .the hypothesiswe hypothesize that small intestinal bacterial overgrowth sibo may be a distinct pathogenic mechanism underlying the development of fd while the precise role of the intestinal micro- biome as yet remains largely unknown.intestinal microbiotathe human gastrointestinal tract constitutes a microbial ecosystem in which trillions of microbial cells including bacteria viruses protozoa archaea yeasts and parasites collectively reside .

finally an empiric trial with antibiotics is advocated as a valuable alternative diagnostic option in patients presenting typical symp- toms along with risk factors for sibo.how can sibo contribute to fd pathogenesisthe involvement of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth in the pathophysiology of fd could comprise three distinct mechanisms that may occur either in series as outlined below or simultaneously.post-infectious fd - the paradigm of ibssibo may contribute to the underlying pathogenic mechanism that characterizes dyspepsia occurring after gi infection referred as post-infectious fd pi-fd.

in this context small intestinal bacterial and archaeal overgrowth could lead to fd development .dysmotility - intestinal permeability interplaythere is evidence to suggest a potential interaction between sibo and impaired intestinal permeability immune activation and altered neuronal control phenomena already proposed to pre- cipitate fd symptom generation .

if the results of these stepwise analyses are confir- matory of our hypothesis a clinical trial with rigorous methodol- ogy of therapeutic intervention against sibo to ameliorate fd symptoms will be performed.conclusionalthough small intestinal bacterial overgrowth has been the focal point for many disorders data evaluating its involvement in the complex multifactorial process of functional dyspepsia are lacking.

is small intestinal bacterial overgrowth involved in the pathogenesis of functional dyspepsiageorgios tziatzios  evangelos j. giamarellos-bourboulis  ioannis s. papanikolaou  mark pimentel george d. dimitriadis  konstantinos triantafyllou a hepatogastroenterology unit second department of internal medicine - propaedeutic research institute and diabetes center medical schoolnational and kapodistrian university of athens ''attikon university general hospital athens greeceb 4th department of internal medicine medical school national and kapodistrian university of athens ''attikon university general hospital athens greecec gi motility program division of gastroenterology cedars-sinai medical center los angeles ca usaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 25 april 2017accepted 5 july 2017keywordsfunctional dyspepsiasmall intestinal bacterial overgrowth gut microbiomepathogenesisa b s t r a c t functional dyspepsia is a highly prevalent disease with significant impacts on patients' quality of life and economic robustness of health care systems worldwide.

that this finding seemingly disputes our working hypothesis should be interpreted cautiously the prevalence of sibo in asian countries is extremely low 7.1 and determination of sibo prevalence was not the study's primary endpoint.

if a causative link between sibo and dyspeptic symptoms is identified treat- ment with antibiotics such as rifaximin or with other medications that inhibit sibo early in the course of the ongoing disorder would be of paramount importance to alleviate patients' symptoms.conflict of interest statementall authors declare that they have no competing interests.funding supportnone.acknowledgementsnone.references.... ....... ................ .

only a couple of small studies investigating the prevalence of sibo in fd subjects have been conducted so far reporting conflict- ing results .

4. small bowel intestinal overgrowth sibo might be the ''triggering factor in a series of events causing increased intestinal permeability intestinal dysmotility and subsequent functional symptom development.fig.

3. small bowel intestinal overgrowth sibo - dysmotility interplay in functional dyspepsia fd itt intestinal transit time.reported prevalence was extremely low antibiotic administration significantly improved patients' symptom burden and breath test levels also returned to normal.

bacterial counts of 105 colony forming units cfuml are strongly indicative of sibo presence .

our knowledge of thegut microbiota and of the small intestinal microbiota in particular is limited the small intestine remains inaccessible and the major- ity of bacteria around 80 remain uncultured because they require particular growth conditions .

