endophytic bacteria previously isolated from reed plants have shown the ability to promote growth of their host and to contribute to cbz metabolism.in this work a horseradish armoracia rusticana hairy root hr culture has been used as a plant model to study the interactions between roots and endophytic bacteria in response to cbz exposure.

when autoclaved hrs were inoculated with endophytic bacteria this metabolite was also detected suggesting that enzymes for gsh conjugation and successive degradation of cbz are also present in bacteria fig.

fisiologia vegetal facultad biociencias universidad autonoma de barcelona 08193 bellaterra spainh i g h l i g h t shairy root cultures are a suitable tool to study plant microbe interactions in response to xenobiotic stress.rhizobium radiobacter and chriseobacterium nitroreducens endophytes in p. australis improve cbz removal.cbz metabolism undergoes four different pathways in hairy root cultures.a cbz-gsh conjugate and its degradations products were identified for the first time in horseradish hairy roots.specific metabolic pathways are activated when hrs are inoculated with endophytic bacteria.a r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 6 april 2017received in revised form 20 july 2017 accepted 2 august 2017available online 9 august 2017keywords endophytic bacteria hairy rootsglutathione conjugate acridine pathway phytoremediationcarbamazepine cbz is a pharmaceutical frequently categorized as a recalcitrant pollutant in the aquatic environment.

higher removal rates were observed when hrs were inoculated with the endophytic bacteria rhizobium radiobacter 21 and diaphorobacter nitroreducens 10. transformation products resulting from cbz degradation were identified using liquid chromatography-ultra high-resolution quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry lc-uhr-qtof-ms. cbz metabolism could be divided in four pathways.

in recent years hairy root hr cultures have been used as 0304-3894c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.a model for the potential of different plant species to remove envi- ronmental pollutants only now we start to use them as tools to study bacteria-plants interactions in response to xenobiotic stress endophytic bacteria harboring both of these qualities catabolic genes and plant growth promoting traits can establish successful and durable mutualistic relationships with their hosts certainly because they do not have to compete with the dense popula- tions of microorganisms present in different soil compartments endophytes capable of degrading xenobiotics have been isolated in recent years.

however in tomato and cucum- ber metabolism has been scrutinized with 1011-cbz-epoxide and 1011-dihydro-1011-dihydroxy-cbz as major metabolites endophytic bacteria previously isolated from phragmites aus- tralis exposed to cbz were used for this study.

these bacteria have been shown to support plants during xenobiotic stress conditions by promoting their growth andor by directly degrading the par- ent compound additionally we have established a hairy root hr culture from a. rusticana plants that allows us to investigate the metabolism of different organic xenobiotics in plant roots in a rapid manner this work aims to apply this horseradish hr culture as a model to study uptake and metabolism of cbz in plant roots as well as interactions between roots and endophytic rhi- zobacteria in response to cbz exposure.

changes in cbz uptake and its metabolic pathways when plant roots were assisted by endophytic bacteria are observed and discussed.materials and methodsplant material and culture conditionshr cultures of horseradish armoracia rusticana had been obtained previously by transformation of nodal segments by agrobacterium rhizogenes strain a4 hrs were grown in erlenmeyer flasks filled with 100 ml of full-strength murashige and skoog medium duchefa biochemie bv.

autoclaved hr cultures 121 c for 20 min were used as controls for exposure experiments void of or inoculated with endophytic bacteria.

only tps with a retention time and fragmentation pattern matchingstandards or fragmentation pattern matching predicted patterns were considered.results and discussioncbz removal from nutrient mediacbz removal by hairy roots and endophytic bacteria was studied in short time experiments with initial cbz concentrations of 10 and 25 um spiked to the media.

this metabolite was formed in the media from the first day and accumulated constantly until the last day of incubation in hr cultures in hrs inoculated with endophytic bacteria accel- erated formation of the 1011-dihydro-1011-dihydroxy-cbz could be observed during the first day followed by a decrease during the next three days.

from the fourth day of incubation the peaktable 1cbz structure and transformation products identified in the liquid media during degradation by a. rusticana hairy root cultures and endophytic bacteria r. radiobacter and d. nitroreducens.area increased with lower rates than in control hr cultures.

this trend suggests that the compound was further metabolized by endophytic bacteria thus accumulating in media in lower amounts.

when autoclaved hrs were inoculated with endophytic bacteria 1011-dihydro-1011-dihydroxy-cbz was synthesized with a trend similar to the one observed in healthy hrs albeit in lower amounts.

1. cbz removal in a. rusticana hairy root cultures and effect of inoculation with the endophytic bacteria r. radiobacter and d. nitroreducens isolated from p. australis.

