 articlehigh intake of dairy during energy restriction does not affect energy balance or the intestinal microflora compared with low dairy intake in overweight individuals in a randomized controlled trialline quist bendtsen trine blaedel jacob bak holm janne kunchel lorenzen alicja budek mark pia kiilerich karsten kristiansen arne astrup and lesli hingstrup larsenabstract during weight loss dairy calcium is proposed to accelerate weight and fat-mass loss through increased fecal fat excretion.

43 1-10 2018 published at on 22 august 2017.to conclude that dairy intake combined with energy restriction favors weight and fat-mass fm loss whereas dairy intake combined with ad libitum diets does not.several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the effects of dairy products on bw and fm including increased fecal fat excretion and reduced lipogenesis.

data on fecal calcium energy intake protein intake fiber intake and intake of saturated fatty acids sfas monounsaturated fatty acids mufas and polyunsatu- rated fatty acids pufas were transformed using the log- transformation.statistical tests for analysis of the microbiota were performed with metagenomeseq on filtered data.

hd high dairy ld low dairy.table 1. baseline characteristics of participants enrolled in the study.hd n  40ld n  40patable 2. dietary intake in overweight or obese men and women at baseline and after 24 weeks on energy-restricted diets either high or low in dairy products.hd n  22 ld n  30baseline wk 24baseline wk 24paenergy intake kjd 8710-439 6900-406 8957-362 6630-255 0.95calcium mgd980-751346-53970-46557-340.001note data are shown as means - se.

baseline value baseline energy intake and baseline calcium intake were included as fixed effects and subject id as random effect.table 3. data on body composition energy expenditure blood pressure biochemical parameters and calcium excretion in partici- pants who completed the study.note data are shown as means - se.

the secondary objectives were to investigate the effects of dairy intake on fecal calcium and energy excretion resting energy expenditure ree blood pressure and lipid metabolism and to determine if the interventions differentially affected the composition of the gut microbiota.materials and methodsparticipantsninety-six overweight or obese body mass index bmi 28- 36 kgm2 men and women aged 18-60 years were recruited for the study which was conducted at the department of nutrition exercise and sports university of copenhagen by advertisements in local newspapers and through webpages from june 2010 to august 2011. all participants were invited for an information meeting and participated in a physical examination at a screening visit after signing the informed consent.

at week 24 the hd group had a significantly higher intake of sfas and a significantly lower intake of pufas compared with the ld group despite a reduction in sfas and mufas for both groups and a reduction in pufas for the hd group compared with baseline intake .body compositionparticipants in both the hd and ld groups had a significant weight loss from baseline to week 24 with no difference between groups p  0.73. results from an intention to treat analyses with last observation carried forward showed similar results data not shown.

veillonella is well-known for lactate fermenting abilities  and the decreased abundance of veillonella in the ld group may thus reflect the decreased overall intake of dairy products in this group rather than being related tothe calcium intake.

partic- ipants were advised to consume low-fat dairy products but intake of fermented dairy products was not controlled.

two different models were used for all analyses model 1 was adjusted for age sex and baseline value and model 2 was adjusted for age sex calcium intake at baseline energy intake at baseline and baseline value.

ree and rq were analyzed as changes from baseline to week 24. within-group changes from baseline to week 24 analyzed by paired t tests were significant  p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001. within-group change from baseline to week 24 analyzed by paired t tests tended to be significant  p  0.10.adifferences between groups when models were adjusted for age sex and baseline value.bdifferences between groups when models were adjusted for age sex calcium intake at baseline energy intake at baseline and baseline value.losses over 24 weeks in overweight and obese adults.

baseline value baseline energy intake and baseline calcium intake were included as fixed effects and subject id as random effect.

they have shown that high intake of dietary calcium increases weight loss in combination with energy restric- tion and that dairy calcium had a greater effect than supplemen- tal calcium.

moreover there was no objective control of energy and dairy intake.

in conclusion the present study shows no difference in changes of bw body composition fecal fat or energy excretion and lim- ited effects on the gut microbiota composition in response to a 24-week intervention with hypocaloric diets either high or low in dairy intake.

