kwai lin thong1 microbiology unit institute of biological sciences university of malaya 50603 kuala lumpur malaysia2 genetics and molecular biology unit institute of biological sciences faculty of science university of malaya50603 kuala lumpur malaysia3 centre for research in biotechnology for agriculture cebar research management and innovation complex university of malaya 50603 kuala lumpur malaysiagraphical abstractkeywords 16s rrna metagenomics  banana bacterial wilt  biodiversity  illumina miseq sequencing  ralstoniaintroductionbanana is listed among the ten most popular economic crops in malaysia faostat agricultural production february 2014. banana plantations covered an estimated 26000 ha of land area which constitutes over 11.0 of the total fruit growing areas in the country malaysia banana grower's 2012. in malaysia major diseases of banana plants are bac- terial wilt fusarium wilt yellow and black sigatoka and cordana leaf spot mokhtarud-din and william .

nevertheless future studies on bw- diseased banana plants should consider the other phytobi- omes components such as diversity and abundance of other microbiomes which associate with the disease and carefully investigate their impact on banana plant conditions.the succulent pseudostem endosphere of the banana plant has previously been reported to host an extraordinary high abundant and diverse microbial community compared to other parts of the plant rossmann et al.

world j microbiol biotechnol 2017 33168 doi 10.1007s11274-017-2336-0diversity of microbiota associated with symptomatic and non- symptomatic bacterial wilt-diseased banana plants determined using 16s rrna metagenome sequencingnurul shamsinah mohd suhaimi1  share-yuan goh2  noni ajam1  rofina yasmin othman13  kok-gan chan2  kwai lin thong1received 31 january 2017  accepted 18 august 2017  published online 21 august 2017c springer sciencebusiness media b.v. 2017abstract banana is one of the most important fruits cul- tivated in malaysia and it provides many health benefits.

to understand the complex interactions of the microbiota of bacterial wilt-diseased banana plants we first determined the bacterial communities residing in the pseudostems of infected symptomatic and diseased-free non-symptomatic banana plants.

thus as a first step towards understanding the microbe-plant interaction ofthe bw-diseased banana the objective of this study was to determine the diverse bacterial populations in banana musa paradisiaca cultivar nipah plants with sympto- matic and without non-symptomatic diseased symp- toms by employing a 16s rrna metagenomics approach.

sam- ples of pseudostem were collected from each banana plant placed in sterile bags and brought to the laboratory.in the laboratory pseudostem tissues from both non- symptomatic ns and symptomatic sp banana plants were crushed and subjected to immunostrip for r. solanacearum agdia inc. elkhart in test according to the manufac- turer's instructions.

furthermore these two genera were ubiquitous in banana plants and their species have been shown to have antagonistic effects towards pathogenic fungi and banana bunchy top virus harish et al.

in this current study the varying abundance of the diverse bacterial populations in both symptomatic and non-symp- tomatic banana plants could not possibly determine the contributions of the associated microbiota towards the dif- ferent plant conditions symptomatic and non-symptomatic bacterial wilt-diseased banana.

however bacterial wilt disease which attacks bananas inflicts major losses on the banana industry in malaysia.

overall this study indicated that more diverse and abundant micro- biota were associated with the non-symptomatic bacterial wilt-diseased banana plant as compared to the symptomatic plant.

the higher diversity of endophytic microbiota in the non-symptomatic banana plant could be an indication of pathogen suppression which delayed or prevented the dis- ease expression.

bw disease affects mostly the banana varieties that are used in cooking and dessert timin et al.

.based on the symptoms observed on banana plants inmalaysia this disease is very similar to the moko diseasewhich originated in central america.

studies and surveys conducted by the department of agriculture malaysia in 2014 indicated that r. solanacearum phylotype iv and bdb caused bw disease of banana plants in malaysia timin et al.

therefore bw disease of banana in malaysia could be caused by an amalgamation of microbial interactions.on the other hand the plant-associated microbiota could substantially influence crop yield and quality stim- ulate plant growth act as antagonists in controlling phy- topathogens and also suppress diseases berg et al.

