Bai S.C. and Kong I.S.2013 Effects of dietary probiotic Lactococcus lactis subsp lactis I2 supplementation on the growth and immune response of olive flounder Paralichthys olivaceus.Aquaculture 376 20-24.Hjelm M. Bergh O. Riaza A. Nielsen J. Melchiorsen J. Jensen S. Duncan H. Ahrens P. et al.

lactis and G40 Enterococcus faecium.Counts after drying process.Between all the identified isolates form Pirarucu intes- tine the species L. garvieae and S. epidermidis are known as being pathogens in rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss Bastardo et al.

In adult fish data this phylum was not the most abundant con- cluding that the use of these strains could be an alterna- tive to increase its abundance in adult fish helping them to fight against diseases during adult stage.Strains of L. lactis were previously tested as probiotics in olive flounder Paralichthys olivaceus resulting in an activation of the innate immune system of this species Heo et al.

Lactococcus lactis strains have been isolated from several fish gut species such as Atlantic cod G. morhua Patagonian fish Odontesthes platensis yel- low grouper Epinephelus awoara Amur catfish Silurus asotus common carp Cyprinus carpio and grass carp Lauzon et al.

Comparing with probiotic bacteria isolated from milk the strain L. lactis K214 was reported as containing cat gene conferring resistance to chloram- phenicol and ermB gene conferring resistance to ery- thromycin Ammor et al.

The obligate air breather is endemic to the Amazon basin and it is one of the largest freshwa- ter fish in the world Brauner et al.

Thus the use of environmentally friendly approaches such as feed additives vaccines and probiotic bacteria to support pirarucu production is considered a high priority.The use of lactic-acid bacteria LABs as probiotics is well known and a great deal of research has demon- strated their positive effects on fish health Gatesoupe 1999 Verschuere et al.

2000 Harikrishnan et al.

2010b Merrifield et al.

2010 Dimitroglou et al.

