2015. it has been suggested that spoilage development in stored car- rots is related to the presence of organic debris or soil on the roots the degree of wounding from mechanical harvesting and pre-storage washing and the length of the storage period goodliffe and heale 1977 godfrey and marshall 2002. bacterial soft rot of stored carrots for instance caused by the bacterial pathogens is known to contaminate carrots in the field before harvest and readily spread in the washing water during the post- harvest handling klaiber et al.

peels from oozing carrots contained over 10-fold the total bacterial counts of healthy carrots.

during oozing stage the surface of carrots incubated in a co2-rich 98 environment harboured a bacterial population dominated by lactobacillales and enterobacteriales differing markedly from those incubated in air.

972-39683621 fax 972-39683622.microbial biotechnology 2017 106 1677-1689 doi10.11111751-7915.12753funding informationthis work was supported by grant 430-0522-14 of the chief scientist ministry of agriculture israel.prevalent bacterial isolates from the oozing carrots were identified as pantoea agglomerans rahnella aquatilis and leuconostoc mesenteroides.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology.this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.the bacterial pathogens pectobacterium erwinia caro- tovorum michalik et al.

error bars - sd n  5. acet acetaldehyde etoh ethanol.forming units cfu g-1 than that on healthy carrotsoozing symptoms correlate with bacterial countto determine the microorganisms associated with the oozing and brownish colour symptoms peel extracts derived from healthy oozing and brownish carrots were serially diluted and plated on plate count agar pca and potato dextrose agar pda-chloramphenicol to isolate bacteria and fungi respectively.

fungal isolates were not consistently cultured from oozing and brownish carrot samples data not shown suggesting that these symp- toms result from the presence of bacterial pathogens.

co2 n2 and air were flushed daily into the chambers for 7 days and then incubation chambers were venti- lated for 24 h. error bars - sd n  5.1.00e101.00e091.00e081.00e07table 1. similarly the single rarefaction curves not shown computed for each sample by chao1 richness estimator showed similar trends per sample table 1.the bacterial community compositions differed consid- erably between the air- and co2-stored carrots when carrot oozing began.

5. the unifrac tree supports the pca graph with the co2-oozing and co2-brownish samples forming one cluster and the other samples forming a separate cluster indicating a distinct difference between the bacterial community compositions of healthy and oozing carrots fig.

3. heterotrophic bacterial counts on carrot peels derived from healthy and symptomatic carrots.

4.the alpha diversity value representing mean speciesdiversity in each treatment reflected minor differences for the air-exposed samples and significant differences for the co2-exposed samples over time table 1. dur- ing the oozing process occurring in the co2-rich environ- ment the number of operational taxonomic units otus decreased table 1. the air samples and the pre- oozing co2 samples showed higher species richness otus than the oozing and brownish co2 samplescultivation of oozing and brownish carrot samples resulted in the appearance of three prevalent bacterial morphotypes on the agar media which differed in colour and size.

mesenteroides is a gram-positive lactic acid bac-terium of the family leuconostocaceae krieg and holt 1994. these findings are in agreement with the micro- biome analysis as l. mesenteroides belongs to the order lactobacillales while p. agglomerans and r. aquatilis are members of the order enterobacteriales.effect of co2 on growth of p. agglomerans r. aquatilisand l. mesenteroidesthe presence of abundant bacterial populations ofp.

the scale of the heat map represents abundance in major bacterial population distribution at the order level l4.

the abundance of the different bacteria at the order level was normalized using the trimmed mean of m-values normalization method tmm and then all replicates were averaged to create the mean normalized level of the bacterial population.table 1. average alpha diversity for carrot samples exposed to air or co2.. different letters indicate significant difference based on one way anova p  0.05 followed by tukey hsd test.oozing and brownish carrot tissues under high levels of co2 suggested a growth advantage for these bacteria in the co2-rich atmosphere.

the microbial population of carrots exposed to air or 98 co2 was analysed at four phenologi- cal stages healthy time 0 pre-oozing a day before visible oozing oozing and brownish 24-h ventilation after oozing.table 2. growth of bacterial isolates derived from oozing and brownish carrot peels.leuconostoc mesenteroides nr0974957100bacilli leuconostocaceae- no growth  poor growth of few colonies  colonies cover of the entire petri dish.l.

