for all the tests the level of statistical significance was set at p  0.05.resultssimilar numbers of sequence reads for the lingual microbiota of patients with gt and controlsin total 91 samples were collected from patients with gt and from controls as shown in .

comparisons between the groups were analyzed by the kruskal-wallis test p  0.05 p  0.001 p  0.0001. the group 'other phyla' comprises the five phyla listed in .table 2. other phylaa identified among patients with gt and controlsnumber of readsaother phyla that were demonstrated in .distribution of bacterial taxa in the lingual microbiota among patients with gt and controlsthe relative abundance for the taxa that represent1.0 of the total reads across all the samples is demon- strated in .

in general controls had higher relative abundance median of the commonly found commensals than patients with gt including both gt-lesion and gt-healthy.richness and diversity of the lingual microbiota in patients with gt and controlsto assess microbiotal richness the numbers of otus per patient were calculated .

similar to these results simonsiella was found in 22 of patients with a healthy oral mucosa compared to 8 of patients with erosive lichen planus.

9 1355206httpsdoi.org10.108020002297.2017.1355206original articlelingual microbiota profiles of patients with geographic tongueamal dafar maria bankvall hulya cevik-aras mats jontelland fei sjobergadepartment of oral medicine and pathology institute of odontology gothenburg sweden bdepartment of infectious diseases institute of biomedicine and department of oncology institute of clinical sciences the sahlgrenska academy university of gothenburg gothenburg swedenarticle historyreceived 27 january 2017accepted 11 july 2017keywordsbenign migratory glossitis tongue lesions oral mucosal lesions oral diseasesnext-generation sequencingintroductiongeographic tongue gt is a common oral mucosal lesion that usually affects the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the tongue.

recently the roles of the oral microbiota in some oral mucosal lesions such as recurrent aphthous ulceration  and oral lichen planus  have been reported.in patients with gt the normal tongue anatomy characterized by the presence of papillae is changed due to papillary atrophy which is evident clinically.

it was previously found that gt is an inflammatory condition in which the levels of salivary interleukin-8 il-8 a pro-inflammatory mediator and a chemotactic factor were found to be approximately twofold higher in patients with gt than they were in controls .

thus a vicious circle may be involved in gt pathogenesis.the aim of this study was to define the lingual microbiota profiles of patients with gt at both the lesion sites and the surrounding healthy sites.

moreover both sites were compared to the lingual microbial profiles of healthy control individuals.methodologystudy populationin this cross-sectional case-control study a total of 57 subjects 35 patients with gt and 22 controls parti- cipated.

patients were examined at the clinic of oral medicine public dental health gothenburgc 2017 the authors.

gt diagnosis was based on the clinical features of the lesions as well as the history of migratory pattern provided by the patients.

an evaluation of the medical history revealed that 60 of the patients were systemically healthy.

among these patients the presence of the following conditions was noted cardiovascular disease i.e.

hypertension or heart fail- ure n  5 psoriasis n  4 fibromyalgia n  2 rheumatoid arthritis n  2 asthma n  2 diabetes n  2 inflammatory bowel disease n  2 and vaginal lichen planus n  1.the age- and sex-matched controls included staffmembers of the two clinics laboratory personnel and relatives or friends of the patients.

samples were collected from the tongue mucosa instead of the buccal mucosa since the aim was to identify the bacteria on the tongue surface where the gt lesions were located.in total 91 tongue samples were collected from 35 patients with gt and from 22 controls.

