this effect might reflect microbial parasitism occurring in even apparently healthy cater- pillars or costly immune responses to the presence of pathogens 58. aside from known leaf specialists many of the most fre- quently detected bacterial genera in this study si appendix table s2 have been reported to cause disease in caterpillars 36 46 59 60. additionally even normally transient gut microbes can neg- atively affect caterpillars under certain circumstances such as after ingestion of insecticidal toxins 61 and thus may be important to understanding caterpillar herbivory and pest management.the lack of a resident gut microbiome in caterpillars may di- rectly result from a digestive physiology that is unfavorable to microbial growth 18. the midgut the largest section of the di- gestive tract in which caterpillars digest leaf material and absorb the resulting nutrients 62 is a particularly hostile environment for microbes 24. it is highly alkaline with ph values often 1063 and as high as 12 64 and contains host-encoded antimi- crobial peptides 65. additional attributes of the caterpillar gut that may hinder microbial colonization include a simple tube-like morphology without obvious microbe-housing structures 18 a continually replaced lining the peritrophic matrix covering the midgut epithelium 66 and short retention times food transit takes 2 h in m. sexta 67. although some insects harbor sym- bionts in specialized organs 68 to our knowledge similar structures have not been reported in caterpillars.

here we focus on caterpillars which are the main--and in some lepidoptera the exclusive--feeding stage and which have long been intensively studied in many fields 15. the vast majority of caterpillars are herbivores and some herbivores rely on microbes to supplement nutrients neutralize toxins or digest plant cell walls 16 17. however considering caterpillars' simple gut morphology and rapid digestive through- put it has been speculated that microbes cannot persist in the caterpillar gut and do not contribute to digestion 18 19. indeed microscopy-based studies report no or minimal microbial growth in caterpillar guts 20-22.dna- and culture-based investigations of caterpillar gut micro- biomes have produced mixed findings with conflicting implica- tions for microbial involvement in caterpillar biology.

moreover this process can explain a relation- ship between host relatedness and microbiome structure a pattern sometimes termed phylosymbiosis 48. specifically although confamilial caterpillars in costa rica had marginally more similar gut bacterial assemblages than did caterpillars in different families permanova pseudo-f643  1.47 p  0.053 they had also been feeding on plants with especially similar leaf microbiomes permanova pseudo-f642  1.73 p  0.005.supporting our claim that caterpillars lack resident gut microbiomes we show experimentally that the growth and sur- vival of field-collected m. sexta caterpillars are not dependent on gut bacterial activity.

68 p. 817. moreover previous studies did not find microbes that were abundant outside of the gut 31 36 al- though in infected populations the reproductive parasite wolbachia may inhabit other larval tissues 69.without the aid of microbial symbionts how are caterpillars able to overcome the dietary challenges posed by herbivory caterpillars use a combination of mechanical disruption endog- enously produced digestive enzymes and high ph to extract easily solubilized nutrients primarily from the contents of plant cells 18 70 71. although this method of processing leaves is relatively inefficient essential nutrients are not totally absent so that cat- erpillars can compensate by simply eating more 18 62. some insects likely require microbes for detoxification 16 but many caterpillars possess host-encoded mechanisms for degrading or6.56.05.55.04.5antibiotic treatment mgmlsexfemale maletolerating plant allelochemicals 72. however there may be a vestigial role for microbes in these processes as genomes of many lepidoptera contain microbial genes encoding enzymes with re- lated functions 73 74. these gene acquisitions may have enabled a symbiont-free feeding strategy.the caterpillars surveyed here are likely to be representative of most externally leaf-feeding lepidoptera as we included a range of diet breadths from monophagous to highly generalist and many of the most diverse families si appendix fig.

how- ever bacterial assemblages were not identical between leaves and caterpillar feces permanova pseudo-f1196  12.54 r2  0.06 p  0.001. besides the potential growth of parasites andor mutualists in the gut this difference could arise from di- gestion filtering out subsets of the leaf microbiome.low precision may partly explain the extensive variation in caterpillar gut bacterial loads fig.

while microbes were known to cause disease in caterpillars as early as louis pasteur's experiments on silkworms 35 their potential importance as mutualists remains unclear.do caterpillars depend on gut microbes for feeding and de- velopment to answer this question we first characterized gut microbial abundance and composition across a taxonomically and geographically broad array of wild caterpillars si appendix fig.

this pattern is more likely a function of plant dna degradation during intestinal transit than of bacterial proliferation as bacterial density remained similar or decreased slightly from midgut to feces depending on the caterpillar spe- cies si appendix fig.

a the density of bacterial 16s rrna gene copies in caterpillar feces versus fecal vertebrates or whole-body homogenate other insect samples of other animals n  121 caterpillar species 24 other species.

caterpillars lack a resident gut microbiometobin j. hammerab1 daniel h. janzenc winnie hallwachsc samuel p. jaffed and noah fiererabadepartment of ecology and evolutionary biology university of colorado boulder boulder co 80309 bcooperative institute for research in environmental sciences university of colorado boulder boulder co 80309 cdepartment of biology university of pennsylvania philadelphia pa 19104 and dthe caterpillar lab keene nh 03431edited by nancy a. moran university of texas at austin austin tx and approved july 12 2017 received for review april 30 2017many animals are inhabited by microbial symbionts that influence their hosts' development physiology ecological interactions and evolutionary diversification.

37-39.resultsusing quantitative pcr and sequencing of the 16s rrna gene we found that wild caterpillars representing a broad diversity of lepidoptera had gut bacterial densities multiple orders of magnitude lower than the microbiomes of other insects and vertebrate feces measured using identical methods one-way anova f1145  228.2 p  0.0001 fig.

1. comparisons of bacterial density relative abundance of plant dna and intraspecific variability between caterpillars and other animals expected to host functional microbiomes.

included are species with at least three replicates with 100 bacterial sequences each n  7 caterpillars 19 other animals.

for species with more than three replicates points show the median core size across all combinations of three individuals and error bars show the interquartile range.species of food plant under similar conditions caterpillars had a much lower proportion of their gut bacterial assemblage belonging to core phylotypes one-way anova f124  165.3 p  0.0001 fig.

leaf bacterial densities differed greatly within tomato and be- tween milkweed eggplant tomato plant species and these dif- ferences were reflected in the feces of monarch danaus plexippusand m. sexta caterpillars feeding on them linear regression r2  0.24 p  0.031 fig.

a the density of bacterial 16s rrna gene copies in ground leaves versus feces for 16 caterpillars collected in colorado.

