Among per-protocol infants no significant differences in infant age microbiota diversity microbiota age or taxon relative abundance distinguished azithromycin from placebo recipients at dayAfter treatment day 14 azithromycin recipients had a significantly lower OTU count than placebo recip- ients 68.1 - 15.4 vs 73.6 - 13.7 linear regression p  0.027 for the effect of study arm after adjusting for age Fig.

These changes in taxon relative abundance after azithromycin treatment were corroborated by the comparison of day-0 and day-14 samples within a longitudinal analysis Supplementary Table  but this analysis also revealed an expansion of Firmicutes driven in part by the genus Streptococcus in azithromycin recipients on day 14.Infants were frequently exposed to antibiotics other than the study intervention before and during this trial.

Thus the short-term reduction in pathogen burden observed following azithromycin treatment may not translate to a longer-term protective effect against diarrhoea.Although the antimicrobial effects of azithromycin have been studied in relation to pathogenic bacteria littleis known regarding the impact of this drug on the bacterial microbiota as a whole particularly during infancy.

OPENReceived 6 February 2017Accepted 19 June 2017Published online 23 August 2017Changes in the intestinal microbiota following the administration of azithromycin in a randomised placebo-controlled trial among infants in south IndiaEdward P. K. Parker1 Ira Praharaj 2 Jacob John2 Saravanakumar Puthupalayam Kaliappan 2 Beate Kampmann34 Gagandeep Kang2  Nicholas C. Grassly1Macrolides are among the most widely prescribed antibiotics worldwide.

We characterised the intestinal microbiota in 6-11 month-old infants in India who received a 3-day course of azithromycin or placebo during arandomised trial of oral poliovirus vaccine immunogenicity CTRI201405004588.

These findings differ from previous observations among older children and adults in Europe and North America suggesting that the effects of azithromycin on the bacterial microbiota may be specific to the age and geographic setting of its recipients.The use of antibiotics continues to rise globally.

In particular studies in mice have revealed that early-life treatment with a b-lactam or macrolide may lead to accelerated growth delayed microbiota maturation and a diminished capacity of the microbiota to respond to changes in diet.With upwards of 8 billion individual doses administered each year macrolides such as azithromycin and clarithromycin are among the most widely prescribed antibiotics globally.

Abbreviations m months OTU 97-identity operational taxonomic unit PC principal coordinate.We recently performed a randomised placebo-controlled trial in Vellore India to examine the impact of a 3-day course of oral azithromycin on the immune response to a subsequent dose of monovalent type 3 oral poliovirus vaccine among seronegative 6-11 month-old infants.

Here we assess the extent to which azithromycin influenced the composition of the bacterial microbiota in these infants by sequencing the V4 region of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene in DNA extracted from stool and testing for the pres- ence of specific pathogen gene targets using PCR in a TaqMan array card TAC format.

We sequenced the V4 hypervariable region of the 16S rRNA gene in 120 infants includ- ing 60 azithromycin recipients and 60 placebo recipients.

