with a specificity of 76.9 the f. nucleatum assay detected 69.2 of crcs and 20.1 of dysplasias table 2. at the selected cutoff the f. nucleatum assay detected crc with a higher sensitivity 69.2 than clba 56.4 and the immunochemical f-hb test currently used in the clinic 65.5. however the f-hb test was more specific 90.2 than f. nucleatum 76.9 detecting 10 false positives table 2.discussionin this nested case-control study we explored the utility of using fecal microbial markers of microbial alterations in crc detection.

j. cancer 141 2528-2536 2017 vc 2017 the authors international journal of cancer published by john wiley  sons ltd on behalf ofuicca test combining markers of microbial alterations in stool predicts crcto improve the crc detection assay the two microbialmarkers detecting clba and f. nucleatum were combined in a single test here termed the cancer-associated microbial altera- tions cama test where one or more positive markers pre- dicts crc.

nucleatum in tumor tissue is correlated to low infiltration of t lymphocytes and poor patient prognosis.3031in this study we investigated the utility of microbial markers for clba1 bacteria clba and afa-11 daec afac and f. nucleatum in crc detection using 238 human stool samples from the fecsu the faecal and endoscopic colo- rectal study in umea cohort.material and methodsstudy cohortthe study is based on the faecal and endoscopic colorectal study in umea fecsu cohort of 1136 patients who went through colonoscopy at the university hospital in umea sweden between the years 2008-2013 september 2008 to march 2013. indications for colonoscopy were gastrointesti- nal symptoms of large bowel disease visible bleeding andor positive fecal hemoglobin f-hb test.

at a specificity of 63.1 the cama test detected crc with a sensitivity of 84.6 table 3. combining the cama test with the immunologi- cal f-hb test slightly increased sensitivity 89.7 for detec- tion of crc but at the same time specificity 61.0 was slightly decreased.figure 3. increased levels of f. nucleatum are detected in stool of crc patients.

ijcinternational journal of cancercancer-associated fecal microbial markers in colorectal cancer detectionvincy ekloeurf1 anna loeurfgren-burstroeurm1 carl zingmark1 sofia edin1 paeurr larsson1 pontus karling2 oleg alexeyev1 joeurrgen rutega rd3 maria l. wikberg1 and richard palmqvist11 department of medical biosciences pathology umea university umea sweden2 department of public health and clinical medicine medicine umea university umea sweden3 department of surgical and perioperative sciences surgery umea university umea swedencolorectal cancer crc is the second most diagnosed cancer in women and the third in men worldwide.12 the mortality of patients with metastatic disease is high indicating the necessity of a good and reliable screening method to detectkey words gut microbiota clba f. nucleatum stool screening colorectal cancerabbreviations crc colorectal cancer e. coli escherichia coli daec diffusely adherent e. coli f. nucleatum fusobacterium nucleatum fecsu faecal and endoscopic colorectal study in umea cama cancer-associated microbial alterationsadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article.v.e.

in the cama test combining microbial markers or the test combining cama with f-hb a negative test result was given to stool samples negative for both markers and a positive test result given to stool samples with one or both markers positive.

j. cancer 141 2528-2536 2017 vc 2017 the authors international journal of cancer published by john wiley  sons ltd on behalf of uiccstrains isolated from crc patients compared to controls.21 compared to 17-36 of controls 67-80 of colorectal tumors are found to be positive for afac.2122 the afa-11 daec have the ability to adhere to and invade epithelial cells and likely play a role in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition.16fusobacterium nucleatum f. nucleatum is part of the commensal flora of the gut and oral cavity but has been linked to a number of pathological conditions including peri- odontitis appendicitis inflammatory bowel disease ibd and crc.23-28 f. nucleatum has been found in higher levels in crc and adenomas compared to adjacent normal tis- sue.1023-25 it is a highly adhesive bacterial species and has the ability to invade colonic epithelial cells.1329 additionally recent studies showed that in human crc high amounts off.

nucleatum is enriched in stool of patients with crc quantitative pcr was applied to detect f. nucleatum in dna from stool of study patients.

very recently showed that quantitation of fecal f. nucleatum improved and had a com- plementary value added to the fit test.45 therefore combin- ing different microbial markers of high-risk flora with f-hb tests clinical characteristics and tumor-specific dna rna or protein biomarkers in stool may be a putative screening strat- egy in the future to more accurately identify patients in early stages of disease progression.in conclusion we suggest that analyses of markers ofmicrobial alterations in stool may be putative noninvasive diagnostic markers for crc.

j. cancer 141 2528-2536 2017 vc 2017 the authors international journal of cancer published by john wiley  sons ltd on behalf of uicctable 3. a test combining microbial markers and f-hb in crc screening1a positive score was given to stool samples positive for one or both of clba and f. nucleatum.

patients diagnosed with crc displayed significantly higher levels of f. nucleatum in stool compared to patients with dys- plasia p  0.001 and controls p  0.001. no difference was found in f. nucleatum dna levels between patients with dys- plasia and controls.

the clinical characteristics of the included study sub- jects are presented in table 1. most of the cancers were found in stage ii 53.8 and in left colon 43.6.bacteria positive for clba are more abundant in stool of patients diagnosed with crca qpcr-assay targeting the clba gene was used to detect colibactin-producing bacteria in dna from stool of study patients.

this cutoff was used in the f. nuclea- tum assay to identify stool samples as positive with high lev- els of f. nucleatum or negative with low levels of f. nucleatum.

f-hb was analyzed manually using a fecal immuno- chemical test fit analyz f.o.b test anl products ab according to manufacturer's instructions.dna extractionstool dna sdna was prepared from approximately 0.2 g stool using qiaampvr dna stool mini kit qiagen accord- ing to the manufacturer's instructions.

the test might however be sensitive to antibiotic treatment and stool sampling as it is a single test randomly sampled by the patient from a small amount of stool.

