2015. similar approaches can expedite the isolation of 'keystone' microbial species and develop synthetic microbial communities that promote plant performance.

preliminary work suggests synthetic microbial communities can be successfully used toapproachapplicationdeliverablesdgsmicrobe-optimized plantsinoculation and management practicesdesigner plantsincreasedproductivitydisease resistancestresstoleranceoptimized microbial biofertilizers  biopesticidesplant-optimizedmicrobiomesbreedingbiomoleculesimproved plant-water-soil relationshipphytoremediationfig.

emerging efforts exploring microbiome engineering could lead to microbial consortia that are better sui- ted to support plants.

2012. a top-down approach to improve animal and plant fitness by artificially selecting upon microbiomes thus engineering evolved microbiomes with specific effects on host fitness has been proposed mueller and sachs 2015. this host-mediated microbiome engineering approach selects upon microbial communities indirectly through the host and leverages host traits that evolved to influence microbiomes.

for example the crispr-cas9-based forward genetic screen will help future studies of plant-micro- biome interactions to transcend individual genes and become more holistic in approaches to elucidate plant- microbiome interactions and discover novel genes for biotechnological applications barakate and stephens 2016.a wealth of genome information dramatically expandsour understanding of a variety of microbial metabolic pathways available for novel traits.

certain metabolites can for instance directly trigger enhanced plant growth as signal molecules others can indirectly support plant growth by inhibition of plant pathogens or by shaping a beneficial microbiome around the plant.the integration of microbial biofertilizers biocontrolmicrobes optimized microbiomes soil amendments and matching microbe-optimized crops for different soil types would be the ultimate goal for enhancing plant-microbe interactions.

over- all existing microbial technologies along with emerging microbiome and associated approaches offer new andmore sustainable practices to increase agriculture pro- ductivity.

therefore elucidating the interactions between mirna and the microbiome may provide a valuable toolkit to engineer a defined ben- eficial plant microbiome or transfer mirna from a target soil to recipient soils for desirable outcomes.plant ecological engineering e.g.

however to fully realize the potential of microbial technology their efficacy and consistency under the broad range of real-world conditions need to be improved.

while the optimization of microbial biofer- tilizers and biopesticides is advancing rapidly to enable use in various soils crop varieties and envi- ronments crop breeding programmes have yet to incorporate the selection of beneficial plant-microbe interactions to breed 'microbe-optimized plants'.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology.this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.products and develop carrier-based inoculants of benefi- cial strains.

2016. despite the high potential of microbial technologies available evi- dence suggests that encouraging results from green- house trials often fail to manifest in field trials.

the effects of microbial products are often inconsistent between different studies and vary with climaticedaphic conditions which is the major bottleneck in the large- scale adoption of the technology.

this in combination with improved application technologies and easy-to-use formulations with long shelf lives will greatly improve the efficacy of microbial products in field conditions.

1. sustainable increase in farm productivity by harnessing microbial technologies is critical for delivery of multiple sustainable development goals sdgs.

