since 70 of the liver blood is supplied from the portal vein disrup- tion of gut microbiota leads to the alteration of immune re- sponse and was associated with various liver diseases includ- ing liver fibrosis non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld alcoholic liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma hcc    .the liver is also considered as a unique immunological organ with a large number of innate immune cells includ- ing natural killer nk cells natural killer t nkt cellscorresponding authors xunyao wu email xunyaowumail.ustc.edu.cn zhigang tian email tzgustc.edu.cnmacrophages and gd t cells .

such knowledge might help to develop novel and innovative strategies for the prevention and therapy of innate immune cell-related liver disease.microbiota liver innate immune cells liver inflammationcitationwu x. and tian z.

further demonstrated that the intestinal microbe bacteroides fragilis modifies the homeostasis of host invariant nkt cells by supplementing the host's endogenous lipid antigen milieu with unique in- hibitory sphingolipids .hepatic nkt cells play an important role in the pathogen- esis and progression of liver inflammation and diseases such as ischemia-reperfusion injury iri primary biliary cirrho- sis pbc non-alcoholic fatty liver diseases nafld con- canavalin a cona-induced hepatitis acute ccl4-induced liver fibrosis alcoholic steatohepatitis as well as hepatocel- lular carcinoma    .

the liver was continuously exposed to metabolic products of intestinal commensal bacterial through portal vein and alteration of gut commensal bateria was always associated with increased risk of liver inflammation and autoimmune disease.

to further explore the potential mechanism they found that gram-negative patho- genic bacteria salmonella or streptococcus aggravate cona- induced liver injury through enhancing nkt cell cytotoxicity in liver .

antibiotic-in- duced alterations in the intestinal flora impair the activation of gd t17 cells which leads to a less severe phenotype of is- chemic brain injury in mice .in liver gd t17 cells have been identified to be involved in con a-induced fulminant hepatitis viral hepatitis listeria monocytogenes infection as well as liver fibrosis      .

moreover mi- crobiota was involved in hepatic gd t17 cell expansion during nafld as microbiota promotes nafld through hepatic gd t17 cells.kupffer cell activation is modulated by gut microbiota-derived tlr ligandskupffer cells which are the resident macrophages in the liver are the largest population presenting throughout the liver.

gut microbiota-derived lps is considered to be a crucial factor for alcohol-induced liver disease by activating tlr4 signaling in liver.

2016. liver natural killer cells subsets and roles in liver immunity.

2012. role of innate immunity and the micro- biota in liver fibrosis crosstalk between the liver and gut.

2015. the riddle of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease progression from nonalcoholic fatty liver to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.

considered as a unique immunological organ the liver is enriched with a large number of innate immune cells.

sci china life sci 60. doi introductionthe liver continuously exposed to high levels of circulating antigens and endotoxins from the gut microbiota functions to eliminate harmful pathogens and toxins to maintain the im- mune tolerance  .

these in- nate immune cells work coordinately to eliminate invading pathogens as well as regulating liver regeneration    .

in this review we update the current knowledge of how gut microbiota shape hepatic innate immune cell responses to modulate liver-associated diseases in understanding the role of gut microbiota and liver innate immune cell functions axis.regulation of hepatic nkt cell activation by gut microbiotankt cells are a group of specialized t cell subset which rec- ognized lipid antigens presented by cd1d and express nk cell markers as well as t-cell receptor tcr.

