tel 71-7-3365-4611 e-mail one sentence summary engage your students in science through course-based undergraduate research experiences--an overview of the laboratory techniques and inquiry-design elements of peer-reviewed laboratory activities in life sciences.editor susan assinderjack t. h. wang abstractinquiry-driven learning research internships and course-based undergraduate research experiences all represent mechanisms through which educators can engage undergraduate students in scientific research.

biochem mol biol educ 20154328-32.moore sd teter k. group-effort applied research expand- ing opportunities for undergraduate research through orig- inal class-based research projects.

this will provide instructors with an overview of the model organisms laboratory techniques and research questions that are adaptable for semester-long projects and serve as starting guidelines for course-based undergraduate research.keywords course-based undergraduate research experiences molecular biosciences biochemistry and molecular biology molecular cell biology microbiome genomics and bioinformaticsintroductionthe '-omics' era within life sciences research has resulted in an explosion of molecular data transforming the complexity of analyses required to interrogate the underlying trends.

course-based undergraduate research experiences cures represent the most scalable version of un- dergraduate research currently documented in the literature which are defined as modules where students address research questions the answers to which are unknown to both students and instructors and of interest to the broader community auch- incloss et al.

cell biol educ 20032275-95.dolan el johnson d. the undergraduate-postgraduate-faculty triad unique functions and tensions associated with under- graduate research experiences at research universities.

when comparing the impact of research-based experiences to traditional cook-book laboratory classes students who com- plete research experiences demonstrated higher confidence and enthusiasm towards research brownell et al.

as of 2014 only 25 of published inquiry-based learning exercises in biol- ogy involved authentic open-ended research in the form of ure beck butler and da silva  where the inquiry-based learn- ing revolves around research questions that are of interest to the broader scientific community.

in a study surveying 279 instructors across 534 biology courses spread across liberal arts comprehensive and research univer- sities the long lead time necessary for faculty to develop novel ideas for authentic research experiences acts as the main dis- incentive to cure implementation spell et al.

students apply these skills to- wards authentic research questions from an ongoing research project and the student-generated recombinant plasmids are of immediate value to the affiliated researchers.

the value of integrating whole genome analyses into learning activities greatly expands the possibilities for instructors to explore novel research ques- tions in cure development.citizen science and microbiomescitizen science projects--where members of the general public are recruited as coinvestigators in research--have risen in popu- larity as scientists turn to crowdfunding efforts to support novel projects.

these issues span across biol- ogy education in general but are exacerbated for instructors in molecular biosciences which rely on complex research methods that require persistent optimization to bolster the low success rate of any individual experiment.this minireview outlined key experimental techniques and inquiry elements utilized in cures across these disciplines summarized in table  with the aim of lowering the perceived risk and uncertainty experienced by instructors looking to im- plement research and inquiry-based learning into their courses.

the search for violacein-producing microbes to combat batrachochytrium dendrobatidis a col- laborative research project between secondary school and college research students.

course-based undergraduate research experiences can make scientific research more inclusive.

microbiol educ 2002318-25.borgon ra verity n teter k. piloting undergraduate students to hands-on teaching and research skills.

j microbiol biol educ 201112194.carson s. a new paradigm for mentored undergraduate research in molecular microbiology.

