the creative commons public domain dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.backgroundatopic dermatitis ad is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that is associated with reduced quality of life qol primarily due to itchy skin - the disease is characterised by reduced skin microbial diversity and overgrowth of staphylococcus s. aureus a bacterium that can aggravate skin inflammation via the production of staphylococcal enterotoxins that stimulate the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines - however the im- portance of s. aureus colonisation in the complex patho- genesis compared to the other genetic and immunologic factors involved remains unclear.current treatment approaches for ad include topical treatment with emollients and anti-inflammatory therapy with topical immunosuppressive agents corticosteroids and calcineurin inhibitors according to the international guidelines .

taking into consideration the current literature on anti-staphylococcal therapy a study design using a long- term anti-staphylococcal intervention measuring long- term outcomes was chosen.evidence for the clinical efficacy of staphefekt registered as a class 1 medical device in europe is based on in vitro studies and a case series - these in vitro studies showed that staphefekt kills different strains of s. aureus also methicillin-resistant strains without harming the commensal flora or inducing bacterial resistance  a case series describes clinical improvement in s. aureus re- lated symptoms such as folliculitis and superinfected dermatitis and no development of resistance during long- term daily treatment with staphefekt based on the min- imal inhibitory concentrations of the cultured s. aureus strains over time .

however long-term use of antibi- otics can induce bacterial resistance  and both the use of antibiotics and dilute bleach baths can cause unneces- sary harm to the commensal flora that is hypothesized to have anti-staphylococcal properties .in the context of the increasing incidence of bacterial resistance the interest in bacteriophages and their endo- lysins as antibacterial therapy has been renewed staphefekt sa.100 is an engineered chimeric endolysin that specifically lyses the cell membrane of s. aureus via endopeptidase and putative amidase activities - long-term application of staphefekt on the skin target- ing only s. aureus and leaving skin commensals unharmed may improve long-term ad outcomes suchas the number of disease flares and may reduce the use of topical corticosteroids.

trials 2017 18404doi 10.1186s13063-017-2118-xtargeted anti-staphylococcal therapy with endolysins in atopic dermatitis and the effect on steroid use disease severity and the microbiome study protocol for a randomized controlled trial maas trialjoan totte1 jill de wit1 luba pardo1 frank schuren2 martijn van doorn1 and suzanne pasmans13abstractbackground atopic dermatitis ad is associated with reduced skin microbial diversity and overgrowth of staphylococcus s. aureus.

assuming 10 drop out and 90 of the patients being positive for s. aureus on the skin lesions 50 patients will be assigned to each of the two treatment arms.randomization and blindingthe participants are randomly assigned in a 11 fashion to either treatment with staphefekt or placebo.

during the treatment period staphefekt or placebo cream will be applied on the total skin surface twice daily to reach optimal reduction of s. aureus as both lesional and non-lesional skin are often colonised the staphefekt endolysin is made available in a cetomacrogol-based cream.

after every visit the researcher can make notes in the digital file about findings agreements and future appointments.additional fileabbreviationsad atopic dermatitis easi eczema area and severity indexiga investigator's global assessment kda kilodalton maas trial microbiome in atopic dermatitis during anti-staphylococcal therapy and the effect on steroid use trial poem patient orientated eczema measure pruritusnrs pruritus numerical rating scale qol quality of life s. aureus staphylococcus aureus spirit standard protocol items recommendations for interventional trialsacknowledgementswe would like to acknowledge all clinicians who identified and referred possible study participants.fundingthe department of dermatology of the erasmus mc university medical centre rotterdam received an unrestricted grant and the staphefekt from micreos human health the netherlands.availability of data and materialsthe final trial dataset will be available for the researchers involved at the erasmus mc university medical centre rotterdam.authors' contributionsjt conception and design data collection and analysis manuscript writing.

bacterial resistance to staphefekt or other endolysins has not been observed and could not be induced which enables us to study the effect of long- term anti-staphylococcal treatment in non-infected ad using this endolysin-based agent   .the aim of this randomized controlled trial the maas trial is to evaluate the effect of 3-month anti- staphylococcal therapy with staphefekt on the frequency and quantity of topical corticosteroid use clinical symp- toms and qol in patients with moderate to severe ad.

additional data about growth characteristics of the skin microbiome including s. aureus will give insight into the role of the microbiome as a factor in the pathophysiology of ad.trial registration clinicaltrials.gov 5. registered on 11 july 2016.keywords atopic dermatitis eczema staphylococcus aureus endolysins lysins staphefekt microbiome correspondence  1department of dermatology erasmus mc university medical center rotterdam wytemaweg 80 3015 cn rotterdam the netherlands full list of author information is available at the end of the articlec the authors.

secondary outcomes include the difference in use of corticosteroid cream measured in grams differences in clinical efficacy quality of life qol microbial composition includi23ng s. aureus between the staphefekt and the placebo group and the safety and tolerability.discussion the results of this trial will provide data about the effect of long-term anti-staphylococcal therapy with staphefekt on corticosteroid use clinical symptoms and qol in patients with moderate to severe ad.

patients who fulfil the inclusion criteria and are willing to participate will be included in the study after providing written informed consent.sample sizethe sample size for this study was calculated based on the primary outcome namely the difference in mean days per week of corticosteroid use over 12 weeks between the staphefekt arm and the placebo arm in patients who are positive for s. aureus on the skin at baseline.

this study will provide the first data on the use of anti-staphylococcal therapy with staphefekt in ad and may provide new insights into the role of s. aureus in the pathophysiology of ad.trial statusthe first patient was included in the study in july 2016. patient recruitment is currently ongoing and the recruit- ment is expected to be completed by august 2017.endnotes1dermhome is a secured digital treatment and re- search platform developed in collaboration with patient 1 bv almere the platform provides a user-friendly individual account that allows patients to report their pruritus score and triamcinolone use daily.

sub- group analysis will be performed to analyse patients who are positive for s. aureus on the skin versus patients that are negative for s. aureus before the start of the inter- vention.

however staphefekt is a large protein molecule 50 kda making penetration through the skin and mucosa and subsequent antibody reactions unlikely calculation of the sample size for this study was ham- pered as no information was available about the effect of staphefekt on corticosteroid use and clinical efficacy in ad.

in addition data on the growth characteristics of the skin microbiome including s. aureus will be collected which will gain insight into the role of the microbiome as a factor in the pathophysiology of ad.methodsdesigndesign and settingthe maas trial microbiome in atopic dermatitis during anti-staphylococcal therapy and the effect on steroid use is a multi-centre randomized double-blinded placebo- controlled superiority trial with a parallel group design fig.

