the inclusion criteria were those with i underlying uc and ipaa ii cdi in- fections confirmed by presence of c. difficile toxin gene in stool sample by polymerase chain reaction pcr assay iii at least one course of antibiotic treatment for 14 days prior to the first fmt iv at least 2 months of follow-up after antibiotic treatment for the index cdi v pouch endoscopy within 3-6 months of the index cdi and vi refractory to antibiotic treatment for the index cdi or recurrence after successful antibiotic treatment confirmed by pcr.

refractory cdi was defined as continued symptoms following treatment of an index cdi with antibiotics for at least 14 days with a continued positive pcr for c. difficile toxin b. recurrent cdi was defined as a period of symptom im- provement or resolution after treatment for the index cdi asso- ciated with a negative c. difficile pcr followed by a relapse or worsening of symptoms in the setting of repeatedly positive c. difficile pcr at any point during the follow-up period .

the first patient had a refractory course and was treated with three courses of vancomycin with 14 days each within a year while the second patient was treated successfully with his fourth course of fmt in an outside hospital.outcomesduring a follow-up of 1.2 6 1.1 years 11 patients 84.6 remained negative for cdi after the last course of fmt and 2 15.4 had a flare 1 month and 6 months respectively after the last fmt.

while fecal microbiota transplantation fmt has been adopted as an effective approach for recurrent cdi in the general population  its use in patients with cdi of the pouch has not been reported beyond a case report .

the paradigm has changed since fmt became widely adopted for the treatment of cdi especially recurrent cdi.

the aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of fecal microbiota transplantation fmt in patients with pouch and cdi.methods all consecutive patients that underwent fmt for cdi from 2012 to 2016 were extracted from our irb-approved prospectively maintained registry of pouch disorders.

however fmt had a modest impact on endoscopic inflammation and recurrence after fmt and recurrence was common.key words clostridium difficile fecal microbiota transplantation ileal pouch pouchitisintroductionclostridium difficile c. difficile infection cdi is the leading cause of antibiotic-associated diarrhea and infectious colitis .

diagnosis of a normal pouch acute pouchitis chronic pouchitis cuffitis irri- table pouch syndrome and crohn's disease cd of the pouch was based on the criteria that we previously reported .clinical practice pattern and fmt techniquethe selection of antibiotics antibiotic dosing duration of antibiotic therapy and the use of fmt via pouch endoscopy upper endoscopy or enema for the treatment of the first or subsequent cdi were based on the clinical discretion of the managing physi- cian b.s.. the commonly used agents included vancomycin met- ronidazole fidaxomicin and rifaximin.

approximately 40 of the patients had a recurrence of cdi after the initial fmt requiring one or more additional fmt therapies.

this was also supported by ourprevious report of refractory cdi pouchitis in which a patient was successfully treated with fmt .the current study was conducted to systematically evaluate the efficacy and safety of fmt.

the impact of cdi and its treatment on ibd disease course are controversial .although cdi generally occurs in the colon small intestinec.

our group has investigated the frequency risk factors and treatment strategies for cdi and recurrent cdi in patients with ipaa .

in patients withfigure 3. modified pouchitis disease activity index endoscopic subscores before and after fmt.ileal pouches our previous studies consistently showed that male gender was a risk factor for cdi .currently the standard therapy for mild-to-moderate cdi in- cludes the use of metronidazole or vancomycin .

due to the unclear relationship between cdi pouchitis and pa- tient symptoms refractory and recurrence of cdi are common .

we speculate that the pathogenesis risk factors and disease course of cdi in the general population and cdi in the ibd or pouch population are different.

