in contrast with the in- creased paneth cell numbers transcript levels for defa20 a member of the a-defensins group produced exclusively by paneth cells and those of lysozyme lyz another exclusive paneth cell product were slightly but significantly de- creased.

i-l electron micrographs of paneth cell secretory granules from a young i and three old animals j-l. m average number of paneth cells per crypt.

old mice showed a slight increase in the number of paneth cells per cryptfig.

based on our data we propose that key primary disrupting events are related to age-acquired defects in the differen- tiation andor function of the secretory cell lineage par- ticularly paneth and goblet cells responsible for the secretion of multiple ampp and mucins.

the intestinal epithelium deals with this challenge via the in- testinal epithelial barrier a functional entity composed by the epithelial cells the mucus layer the mucosal lymphoid tissue a full repertoire of effector immune cells and secreted immunoglobulins and antimicrobial peptides and proteins ampp  defects of the intes- tinal epithelial barrier integrity may lead to increased permeability and inflammation and have been pro- posed as important contributing factors to geriatric gastrointestinal dysfunction it is not currently known whether alteration in the syn- thesis of intestinal ampp is a distinctive feature of gastro- intestinal aging.

ampp are critical for the maintenance of the intestinal barrier and the immunological homeostasis of the git.we used aged and young c57bl6 mice 104 and 20 weeks average age respectively as a model to investi- gate changes in the baseline synthesis of ileal ampp in old age.

the secretory granules of paneth cells appeared larger and very prominent in aged mice fig.

this together with the histological and electron microscopy data is suggestive of paneth cell dysfunction in the aged mice.

such a disparity between muc2 transcription and mucin levelsmucus distribution has been observed by others in reg3g- defficient mice based on their recognized importance for intestinal homeostasis and defense several ampp from different functional classes a-defensins b-defensins c-type lectins rnases and the cell wall-degrading enzyme lysozyme were chosen for comparative gene expression analyses in the terminal ileum.

likely representing cells of the secretory lineage that migrated towards the villi tip but failed to correspondence 1department of microbiology and infectious diseases faculty of medicine and health sciences universite de sherbrooke 3201 rue jean-mignault sherbrooke quebec j1e 4k8 canadafull list of author information is available at the end of the articleundergo terminal differentiation.

all authors read and approved the final manuscript.ethics approval and consent to participateall the animal work was approved by the animal care committee of the universite de sherbrooke protocol  281-15.consent for publicationnot applicable.competing intereststhe authors declare that they have no competing interests.publisher's notespringer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.author details1department of microbiology and infectious diseases faculty of medicine and health sciences universite de sherbrooke 3201 rue jean-mignault sherbrooke quebec j1e 4k8 canada.

g. atypical goblet-like cells containing paneth cell-like eo- sinophilic granules were observed close to the tip of the villi fig.

1 representative he stained cross-sections from the ileum of young a and old b mice.

d-f representative he stained ileal sections from young d and old e-f mice showing villi degeneration and crypt enlargement.

indicating anincrease in mucin abundance in the ilea of old mice.

