the capacity of sfb to modu- late the immune system seems linked to the production of serum amy- loid a and various cytokines yet how sfb are sensed if and how they are different from other bacteria adhering to epithelial cells as well as the precise signaling pathways triggered by sfb are unresolved.14 thomas clavel and colleagues have compiled key findings on the inter- action between defined members of the microbiota and the immune system in particular emphasizing taxa that can be cultured.15interaction between the microbiome and the immune system af- fects numerous immune cell types of which in particular the inter- action with innate lymphoid cells ilc unconventional lymphocytes and conventional lymphocytes are discussed in three articles of this volume.16-18 ilc are particularly enriched in barrier tissues ie tissues typically directly exposed to the microbiota.

the intricate interactions between the microbiome and ilc are discussed in this volume.16between innate immune cells and ilc on the one hand and con- ventional adaptive immune cells on the other unconventional immune cells including gd t cells and nk cells are another curious immune population characteristic of barrier tissues.

cytokine production by various immune cells including th2 type cells can modulate mucus production by goblet cells and thereby modulate the microbiotaalthough multiple pathways are emerging of how the microbiome directly or indirectly shapes the immune system there is still scarce information on how immune cells control the microbiota.

yet it will be key to exploit microbiome- based diagnostics and therapeutic interventions.this volume focuses on the interplay between the microbiome and the immune system in particular the interaction of the gut microbiota and the intestinal immune system.

however the various interactions between the microbiota and the immune system that shape the situation that we are considering as healthy are only beginning to emerge and are discussed in various re- views in this volume.many microbiome-mediated effects on the immune system seem linked to their metabolic activity.

doi 10.1111imr.12584intr oduction correlation consequence and functionality in microbiome- immune interplayoliver pabstinstitute of molecular medicine rwth aachen university aachen germanycorrespondenceoliver pabst institute of molecular medicine rwth aachen university aachen germany.

germ-free mice ie mice that lack any live microorganisms are characterized by an underdeveloped immune system an observation reported more than 50 years back.11 germ-free mice have largely reduced numbers of plasma cells and t cells in their intestinal lamina propria.

peyer's patches secondary lymphoid organs in the intestine that serve the induction of immune responses are smaller and have minute germinal centers compared to colonized mice.

yet other immune cell populations seem less affected.

for example eosinophils and macrophages are pres- ent at comparable numbers in germ-free and colonized mice and many of their functions seem unaffected by the lack of microbiota.colonization of germ-free mice results in normalization of their immune status and most of the differences characterizing the devia- tion from the colonized state disappear in formerly germ-free animals within a few weeks.

thus immune maturation is clearly driven by and a consequence of the microbiota.

curiously in most cases the type of colonizing microbes seems to play a minor role and many bacteria seem capable of triggering immune maturation in germ-free animals.

microbiota metabolize dietary com- ponents and host factors to yield bioactive compounds which can affect immune cells either directly or indirectly figure 1a.

additionally the microbiota de novo synthesizes compounds with dis- tinct immune-modulatory functions and interactions of the microbiota and its constituents can modulate immune function figure 1b.

moreover introduction of sfb to the microbiota of sfb-free animals triggers th17 differentiation showing that the presence of a single bacterial species can indeed exert a major influence on immune development and disease susceptibility.

