from d 14 to 21 increase in villus height of broilers fed the 5 and 10 rye diet was more compared to broilers fed the 0 rye diet result- ing in a numerical higher villus height for the broilers fed the 10 rye diet p  0.11. crypt depth was not affected by level of rye inclusion at d 28. at d 21 crypt depth of broilers fed the 10 rye diet tended p  0.07 to increase compared to birds fed control diet while the birds fed the 5 rye diet showed an intermediate result.

the control diet however tended p  0.08 to a more favorable fcr compared to the 10 rye diet while the 5 rye diet resulted in an intermediate fcr.litter quality at d 21 and 28 was negatively affected by diet inclusion level of rye.gut morphologyresults of the villus height crypt depth mm vil- luscrypt ratio area of villi covered by goblet cells  number of goblet cells per villi and the surface of the goblet cells mm2 of the jejunum at d 14 21 and 28 are presented in table .

broilers fed the 10 rye diet control showed a decreased bw and bwg between 15 and 21 d compared to the 5 rye diet whereas the 0rye diet was intermediate.

who fed broilers a wheatrye- based diet high in nsp from d 0 onwards observed more and larger goblet cells both on the villi and in thedietary rye and gut ecosystem of broilers3333figure 2. network of down-regulated genes and their respective stitch interaction partners highlighted are the 5 most dominant kegg pathways tgf-beta signaling pathway complement and coagulation cascades mtor signaling pathway erbb signaling pathway insulin signaling pathway.crypts at the age of 29 d in broilers given the wheatrye diet compared to those given a maize diet.

in a study of misir and marquardt  relative improvement of perfor- mance in broilers was higher if antibiotics were added to a rye-based diet compared to antibiotic supplemen- tation to a control diet indicating that the microbiota played a larger role in birds fed the rye-based diets.

fcr however was higher for the broilers fed the 10 rye diet compared to the other treatments whereas fcr was similar for the 0 rye and 5 rye diet.

be- tween 22 and 28 d bwg fi and mortality were not sig- nificantly affected by dietary treatment although fcr was higher for the broilers fed the 10 rye diet com- pared to the 0 and 5 rye diet.

although all birds were fed the same standard diet during the starter period villus height at d 14 was highest in the broilers fed the 0 rye diet compared to the diets with 5 or 10 rye inclusion during the grower period.

between 21 and 28 d of age crypt depth de- creased more in broilers fed the 10 rye diet compared to birds fed the 0 rye and 5 rye diet.

at d 21 103 genes of the jejunal mucosa were down-regulated in the birds fed the 5 and 10 rye diet whereas 16 and 3 genes weredietary rye and gut ecosystem of broilers3331table 5. microbiota composition in the jejunal digesta  of total at 28 d of age.table 6. descriptive statistics of regulated probesgenes in jejunal tissue between dietary treatments at 21 and 28 d of the study.the jejunal mucosa were down-regulated in the birds fed the 5 rye diet whereas 4 genes were up-regulated at d 28.to investigate in which processes these up- or down- regulated genes were involved a functional analysis for all 6 contrasts was performed by the david web tool at d 21 table  and d 28 table .

compared to the birds on the 5 rye diet at d 21 12 genes of the jejunal mucosa were down- regulated in the birds fed the 10 rye diet whereas 8 genes were up-regulated.

at d 28 89 and 94 genes of the jejunal mucosa were down-regulated in the birds fed the 10 rye diet compared to the 0 and 5 rye diet whereas 7 and 2 genes were up-regulated respectively.

in which a diet including alginic acid al a non-viscous nsp was compared with gum arabic ga predominantly galacto-araban also increased ileal vil- lus height was detected in birds fed the viscous ga diet.

in a study of misir and marquardt  relative im- provement of performance in broilers was higher when antibiotics were supplemented to a rye-based diet com- pared to antibiotic supplementation to a control diet indicating that the microbiota played a larger role in reducing performance level in birds fed the rye-based diets.

a significant increase in the num- bers of total lactic acid bacteria were detected in the duodenum ileum and ceca of young broilers fed a diet containing 58 of rye compared to the broilers fed corn- rich diet tellez et al.

