only one go family was significantly enriched in dmso when the control group was compared to both immunosuppressantfigure 6. network visualization of the metabolic pathways distinguishing the immunosuppressed rats tacrolimus sirolimus and both treatment groups together from the control rats using the welch's two- sided t-test p 0.05. dmso and sirolimus orange dmso and tacrolimus green and dmso and both immunosuppressants -is purple comparison were represented by nodes and the relative pathwaysabundances in black if enriched in control group or pink if enriched in treated groups.

the different compari- sons were represented as colored nodes dmso and sirolimus orange dmso and tacrolimus green dmso and both immunosuppressants purple relative pathway abundances in black if enriched in control group and pink if enriched in treated groups.

the values refer to 5 rats treated with tacrolimus or sirolimus and 4 animals with dmso p  0.05 calculated with student's t-test analysis was considered statistically significant.group following treatment with probiotics 6 mmoll - 0.4 whereas they decreased but remained elevated in the sirolimus group 15 mmoll -3.7. cholesterol levels increased significantly by 4 weeks in both immunosup- pressant groups mean 3.5 mmoll - 0.3 in the sirolimus group and mean 3.0 mmoll - 0.02 in the tacrolimus group p  0.05 vs control fig.

all the enriched pathway abundances in the different treatment comparisons were represented by nodes linked with edges to the three different treatment comparison dmso and sirolimus dmso and tacrolimus dmso and both immunosuppressants.referenceskesiraju s. paritala p. rao ch u. m.  sahariah s. new onset of diabetes after transplantation - an overview of epidemiology mechanism of development and diagnosis.

additionally our study reveals thatfigure 8. the percentage of catabolic and anabolic pathways enriched in control group n 3 compared to sirolimus tacrolimus and both immunosuppressant drugs is n 5.genes involved in sucrose degradation are more commonly prevalent in the im of immunosuppressed animals.

all the go gene families spe- cifically enriched in dmso versus treatment group are represented for each comparison table .

a welch's two-sided t-test was used to compare two treatment groups dmso and sirolimus dmso and tacrolimus and dmso and both immunosuppressants with a p-value set at 0.05.network construction.

rats in both immunosuppressant groups developed significant hyperglycemia with a glucose of 22 mmoll -2.1 sem in the sirolimus group and 16 mmoll -2.1 sem in the tacrolimus group fig.

the cholesterol normalized in the tacrolimus group following probiotic therapy but remained elevated in the sirolimus group despite probiotics.

a pairwise welch's two-sided t-test was used to compare the control group to each treatment group both separately by drug type and together.

in our study we exposed the animals to the probiotic lactobacillus plantarum after the immunosuppression phase and were able to demonstrate normalization of glu- cose in the tacrolimus group and improvement in the sirolimus group.

however the cholesterol levels normalized only in the tacrolimus group but not in the sirolimus group.

in our study the tacrolimus group did not develop cholesterol levels as elevated as those in the sirolimus group.

this may account for the difference in response to probiotics with the tacrolimus group having normalization of cholesterol levels as opposed to the persistent hypercholesterolemia in the sirolimus group.

however it should be noted that despite discontinuation of both immu- nosuppressants and initiation of probiotics glucose levels only normalized in the tacrolimus but not sirolimus group suggestive of a beneficial effect of the probiotic specifically in the former group.

