this could be accomplished by repeating a short lesson of what was learned at the con- clusion of the activity andor reviewing the terminology and importance of the microbiota to human health on multiple occasions throughout this activity via group discussion.perceived gains in student learning outcomes were as- sessed at the conclusion of the activity in a survey included with the post-activity quiz.

an example workflow is presented in figure 1. adaptations can be made to use longer lab periods or multiple shorter sessions.learning outcomesupon completion of this activity students will be able todefine microbiota microbiome metagenomics and metadatadescribe the biological impact of the microbiota on human healthformulate a hypothesis to address a specific questionanalyze and interpret metagenomics data to com- pare microbiotaevaluate a specific hypothesissynthesize a conceptual model as to why microbial populations varyprocedurematerialsthe activity is completed without a wet lab and re- quires only computational resources.

the belly button microbiome data file biom format associated with this activity can be downloaded from projectswild-life-of-our-homesdata-visualization.student instructionsstudents should begin the activity by reviewing the student handout appendix 1 the plos one paper that describes the belly button study 10 and the your wild life website this is followed by an in-class lesson appendix 2 in which the concepts of microbiota the human microbiome and metagenomic analysis are introduced.

we found that instructor familiarity with the interface and tools at phinch.org was important to helping students complete the activity.student contact time during unique down to our microbes... consists of four modular components outlined in figure 1. students should review the student handout appendix 1 and the plos one paper describing the belly button study prior to the activity 10. the first component of the activity is an introductory lesson.

slos 3 to 6 also relate to core competencies outlined in vision and change 3 such as the ability to apply the process of science use modeling and simulation and understand the relationship between science and society.pre- and post-activity quizzes were administered be- fore students received any materialslessons relating to the activity and after the activity was completed respectively appendix 4. students were assessed for their ability to define key terms slo 1 and identify the importance of the microbiota to human health slo 2 in nine questions.

though differences were observed in the performance of individual cohorts our student population as a whole made noticeable gains in the activity's learning outcomes.table 2.average likert-type score of student-perceived gains in knowledge and skills associated with this activity.by participating in this activitycohort average likert-type scoreatotalalikert scale 1  strongly disagree 2  disagree 3  neither agree nor disagree 4  agree 5  strongly agree.umbc  university of maryland baltimore county ncsu  north carolina state university nccu  north carolina central university wlu  washington and lee university kc  kalamazoo college slo  student learning outcome.appendix 3 final project rubricappendix 4 pre- and post-activity surveys appendix 5 examples of student final projectsappendix 6 example studentcomments aboutthe activity appendix 7 possible modification to activityacknowledgmentsfigure 3. post-activity assessment of student enjoyment.

journal of microbiology  biology educationdoi httpsdoi.org10.1128jmbe.v18i2.1284curriculumunique down to our microbes--assessment of an inquiry-based metagenomics activity thomas b. lentz1 laura e. ott2 sabrina d. robertson1 sarah c. windsor3 joshua b. kelley4 michael s. wollenberg5 robert r. dunn6 and carlos c. goller11biotechnology program north carolina state university raleigh nc 27695 2college of natural and mathematical sciences university of maryland baltimore county baltimore md 21250 3north carolina central university durham nc 27707 4washington and lee university lexington va 24450 5kalamazoo college kalamazoo mi 49006 6department of applied ecology north carolina state university raleigh nc 27695metagenomics is an important method for studying microbial life.

in this inquiry- based activity designed for introductory life science majors and nonmajors students perform an investigation of the bacterial communities inhabiting the human belly button and associated metagenomics data collected through a citizen science project and visualized using an open-access bioinformatics tool.

the activity is designed for attainment of the following student learning outcomes defining terms associated with metagenomics analyses describing the biological impact of the microbiota on human health formulating a hypothesis analyzing and interpreting metagenomics data to compare microbiota evaluating a specific hypothesis and synthesizing a conceptual model as to why bacterial populations vary.

this activity was implemented in six introductory biology and biotechnology courses across five institutions.

collectively our assessment demonstrates achievement of the learning outcomes and supports the utility of this inquiry-based activity to engage undergraduates in the scientific process via analyses of metagenomics datasets and associated exploration of a microbial community that lives on the human body.introductionmicrobes dominate global ecological processes they account for most of the deep diversity of lineages and they directly influence human health and well-being both as beneficial organisms and through their ability to cause disease in plants animals and humans.

while development of advanced data analysis and technical laboratory skills is valuable neither is critical to understand the conceptual basis of metagenomics which we view as the first step to using metagenomics as a tool.here we describe an activity unique down to our microbes... that provides an opportunity for students to work with metagenomics data and explore the bacterial communities that live on our bodies even if they do not have access to sophisticated software or wet lab resources.

most importantly this activity immerses students in the scientific process and introduces them to the concept of metagenomics through a relatable research project where the process is repeatable but where the results differ depending on the questions thestudents ask.

this activity is also inquiry- driven providing the opportunity for collaborative work on a classroom-based research project.

the activity is open-ended and encourages students to be creative and use their imagination.

