Inclusion of additional ecological traits in the calculation of the ecomorphological distance matrix did not improve the correlation with weighted unifrac distances of the microbial communities Supplementary Table 6 suggesting that arboreality water dependence and breeding water body are the most important ecological traits influencing the cutaneous bacterial communities of Malagasy amphibians.Topological congruency analysis also showed a lack of congruence between host phylogenetic trees and microbial dendrograms suggesting a limited effect of host phylogeny Full dataset - Weighted Unifrac normalized RF score 1 Bray- Curtis normalized RF score 0.98 Ranomafana-Weighted Unifrac normalized RF score  0.98 Bray-Curtis normalized RF score 1.Using PERMANOVAs host ecomorph was the strongest predictor of skin bacterial community structure PERMANOVA - Weighted Pseudo-F2980  30.308Frog skin microbiotas were dominated by Proteobacteriap  0.001 Unweighted Pseudo-F2980  7.142 p  0.001Gamma - 46.6 Beta - 15.4 Alpha - 9.4 Delta - 1.6 Bacteriodetes 8.1 Actinobacteria 7.9 Firmicutes however host phylogeny nMDS 1 latitude and elevation also explained significant portions of the variationFIGURE 2  Bacterial composition differs between the skin of Malagasy frog hosts and the environment.

Sunderland MA Sinauer Associates.Vences M. Lyra M. Kueneman J. G. Bletz M. C. Archer H. M. Canitz J. et al.

PERMANOVAs we found no further evidence for strong phylosymbiosis in frog skin microbial communities that is the similarity of amphibian skin microbial communities did not parallel host phylogeny  .

Brucker R. M. Baylor C. M. Walters R. L. Lauer A. Harris R. N. and Minbiole K. P. C. 2008a.

Sabino-Pinto J. Bletz M. C. Islam M. M. Shimizu N. Bhuju S. Geffers R. et al.

Ley R. E. Hamady M. Lozupone C. Turnbaugh P. J. Ramey R. R. BircherJ.

Wang Q. Garrity G. M. Tiedje J. M. and Cole J. R. 2007.

We intensively sampled frog skin bacterial communities from over 800 amphibians from 89 species across 30 sites in Madagascar during three field visits and found that skin bacterial communities differed strongly from those of the surrounding environment.

Sommer F. Stahlman M. Ilkayeva O. Arnemo J. M. Kindberg J. Josefsson J. et al.

Microbial therapies have been proposed as a possible disease mitigation strategy for combating chytridiomycosis       and thus investigation of the basic ecological principles dictating skin microbial community structure on amphibians can inform the development and application of probiotic therapies.The extent to which host factors versus environmental factors structure skin microbial communities of amphibians as well as those of other hosts is not fully understood.

