the other genera were all found in greater abundance in chp being fusobacterium treponema porphyromonas and prevotella the four most abundant genera.the 20 generawhose relative abundance differed significantly among pd categories are represented in figure 5. fusobacterium treponema porphyromonas tannerella fretibacterium eubacteriumxig-6 desulfobulbus peptostreptococcaceaexig-1 and xig-3 bacteroidetesg-3 and bacteroidaceaeg-1 were in higher abundance in moderate and deep sites than in shallow sites p  .05. conversely streptococcus corynebacterium cardiobacterium and rothia were in lower abundance in moderate and deep sites than in shallow sites p  .05. filifactor was in higher abundance while capnocytophaga and veillonella were in lower abundance in deep sites than in shallow sites p  .05. of the 20 genera only fusobacterium was in higher abundance in shallow-chp sites than in ph sites p  .05. in addition mitsuokella mogibacterium peptococcus pseudoramibacter chloroflexig-1 peptostreptococcaceaeg-3 and veillonellaceaeg-11 p  .05 were also in higher abundance in shallow-chp sites than in ph sites p  .05 data not shown.the speciesphylotypes found in greatest abundance 0.2 and that differed significantly between different pd categories and between ph and chp all sites are presented in table 1. these taxa comprised 95 of the microbiota identified in this study.

fusobacteria bacteroidetes spirochaetes synergistetes and chloroflexi were more abundant in chp whereas actinobacteria was in ph p  .05. when different sites were com- pared figure 3 bacteroidetes spirochaetes and synergistetes were in higher abundance and actinobacteria in lower abundance in deep and moderate sites than in shallow sites of the chp subjects p  .05. in addition proteobacteria abundance was lower in deep than in shal- low sites of these subjects p  .05. furthermore spirochaetes and chloroflexi abundance were higher in shallow-chp sites than in ph sites p  .05.figure 4 presents the relative abundance of the 44 genera that differed significantly between chp and ph p  .05. these genera belonged to the following phyla firmicutes n  28 bacteroidetes n  7 actinobacteria n  5 fusobacteria n  1 synergistetes n  1 spirochaetes n  1 and candidatus saccharibacteria n  1. streptococcus corynebacterium and bergeyella were found in greater abundance in ph.

in addition taxa from the phylum chloroflexi andtable 1 mean relative abundance -sd of the speciesphylotypes found in greatest abundance 0.2 in the samples and that differed significantly between chronic periodontitis chp and periodontal health ph between shallow sites of ph and shallow sites of chp and among the three probing depth categories in chp subjectsthe mann-whitney mw test was used to determine the significance of differences between chp and ph groups mw p-value and between shallow sites of ph and shallow sites of chp  p.05.the significance of differences among different probing depth categories in chp subjects was determined using friedman test friedman p-value.

2016. interestingly in the current study the classical periodontal pathogen t. forsythia and f. alocis increased in abundance from the ph sites of healthy subjects to the shallow moderate and deep-chpfigure 5 relative abundance of the genera that differed significantly among different probing depth categories.different letters a b represent significant differences between different probing depth categories friedman test p  .05. significant differences between shallow sites of periodontal health and chronic periodontitis wilcoxon-mann whitney test p  .05sites suggesting a role of these species in the onset and progression of disease.

2015 zaura keijser huse  crielaard 2009. interestingly when hierarchical clustering was performed with the otus presenting the greatest variance in mean relative abundance between samples the samples were grouped into two main clusters one from ph and shallow-chp sites and the other from moderate and deep-chp sites figure 1.our data suggested that spirochaetes phylum and fusobacterium genus and other taxa not traditionally associated with periodontitis such as the chloroflexi phylum might be implicated in the initial dys- biosis process associated with periodontal destruction because these taxa were in relative higher abundance in shallow sites of chp subjectsthan in shallow sites of ph subjects.

two clusters were identified one upper comprising 19 taxa that were in high relative abundance in chp mostly in deep and moderate sites but also in a few shallow- chp sites and a second one lower composed by 11 taxa present in high relative abundance mainly in ph and shallow- chp sites.the comparison between chp and ph for the relative abundance of the phyla detected is presented in figure 2. tenericutes chloroflexi candidate sulfur river sr1 and gn02 represented less than 1 of the data set.

fourteen spe- ciesphylotypes were in higher abundance in moderate and deep site than in shallow sites p  .05. streptococcus unclassified corynebacterium matruchotii rothia dentocariosa corynebacterium durum and cardiobacterium unclassified were in reduced abundance in moderate and deep sites than in shallow sites p  .05 table 1. tannerella forsythia and filifactor alocis increased in abundance with the deepening of the pockets p  .05. neisseria unclassified was in lower abundance in deep sites than in moderate and shallow sites p  .05. treponema sp hot258 was in higher abundance in deep than in shallow sites p  .05. eubacteriumxig-3 brachy peptococcus sp.

conversely other genera streptococcus corynebacterium cardiobacterium rothia capnocytophaga and veillonella decreased in abundance as the pocket got deeper in chp subjects.at species-level phylotypes corynebacterium durum corynebacterium matruchotii unclassified neisseria and streptococcus showed a strong association with periodontal health as their relative abundance was higher in ph than in chp subjects and in shallow than in moderatedeep sites of the diseased subjects.

the rela- tive abundance of five speciesphylotypes was significantly higher in ph than in chp while the relative abundance of 31 speciesfigure 3 relative abundance of phyla in the different probing depth categories.

while several known periodontal pathogens were associated with diseaseand with the deepening of pockets other taxa--some of them not- yet-cultured or not previously described in the periodontal literature-- were also associated with periodontal health or disease.we identified 211 otus at species level which is a lower num- ber compared with previous studies abusleme et al.

secondary aims were to compare the subgingival microbial profiles of subjects with chp and periodontal health ph and of the shallow sites present in subjects with chp and ph.2  material and methods  subject populationnon-smokers subjects with untreated chp armitage 1999 or peri- odontal health were selected from the population referred to the periodontal clinic of guarulhos university guarulhos sp brazil.

high otus counts are represented in dark blue and low otus counts in dark red3  results  clinical characteristicsthe mean age of chp and ph groups was 46.2 - 10.6 years age range 35-59 and 45.9 - 9.9 years age range 35-59 respectively p  .05. all full-mouth clinical parameters evaluated differed significantly be- tween chp and ph groups p  .05. the mean pd and cal and the mean percentage of sites with bop plaque and gb for chp n  9 and ph n  7 were respectively pd 3.9 - 0.7 mm and 1.9 - 0.2 mm cal 4.9 - 0.7 mm and 1.6 - 0.7 mm bop 68 - 10 and 1 - 1 plaque67 - 15 and 13 - 18 and gb 31 - 6 and 6 - 3.  structure and diversity of bacterial communitiessequences are available in genbank accession prjna324274.

hot167 and an unclassified fusobacterium were higher while unclassified species of streptococcus granulicatella and prevotella were lower in shallow-chp than in ph p  .05.overall the community-type pairwise analysis showed a positive correlation between the pairs of species associated with ph or chp while the co-occurrence seen between health-associated species and periodontitis-associated species was very weak figure 6.4  discussion our results suggested striking differences between the structure of the subgingival communities between moderatedeep and shallow sites of subjects with chp as well as between ph and chp.

present in higher abundance in chp and in moderate andor deep sites in- cluded some classical periodontal pathogens such as porphyromonas gingivalis treponema denticola tannerella forsythia and treponema socranskii and newly identified putative periodontal pathogens such as filifactor alocis fretibacterium fastidiosum johnsonella sp hot166 peptostreptococcaceaexiiig-1 sp hot113 porphyromonas endodon- talis and treponema sp.

s1 showed that most of the samples from ph and shallow chp presented a communityfigure 2 relative abundance of phyla in periodontal health and chronic periodontitis.

