different superscripts between diets for each specific bacterial group indicate significant differences p  0.05.substrates in the distal colon .scfas concentration in fecescarbohydrate fermentation and degradation of proteins by the gut microbiota putrefaction lead to ph reductions and to the production of different metabolites such as scfas.

heating food matrixes rich in pro- teins carbohydrates andor lipids leads to the appearance of the so- called maillard reaction products mrps a large number of com- pounds with different chemical structures and molecular weights .

among the products formed during the intermediate and advanced stages of the reaction 5-hydroxymethylfurfural and the advanced glycation end-product age carboxymethyl-lysine cml have to be mentioned due to their involvement in different physio- phatological processes .

some investigations highlight the role of melanoidins in vivo since they are able to escape digestion and pass through the upper gastrointestinal tract   reaching the hindgut where it is known for a long time that they can interact with the different micro- bial species there present .

this previous investigation showed that dietary mrps were able to modulate in vivo the intestinal microbiota compo- sition both in humans and in rats and that the specific effects are likely to be linked to the chemical structure and the dietary amounts of the different browning compounds.

laboratory produced glucose-lysine derivatives quite different from bread crust mrps were used in this earlier work.

additionally in order to understand mrps degrada- tion by the gut microorganisms the molecular masses of the different compounds appearing in feces was investigated.

individual analysis of the different diets revealed no modification of the overall nutrient composition in any case ain-93g.

in the present work those values were applied to calculate the daily intake of specific mrps with the different diets.biological assaysforty male weanling wistar rats weighing 40.16 - 0.90 g mean - se were randomly distributed into five groups n  8 and each group was assigned to one of the dietary treatments control bc lmw hmw and insoluble diet respectively.

bedford ma usa and were fed the different diets for 87 days.

daily intake of mrp markers was calculated on the basis of food intake and the dietary content of different mrps.

the different microbial groups quantified included total bacteria bacteroides spp.

the hplc equipment was similar to that used for scfas analysis.statistical analysisstatistical significance of data was tested by one-way analysis of variance anova followed by the duncan test to compare means that showed significant variation p  0.05. evaluation of the relationship between the different variables of interest was carried out by computing the relevant correlation coefficient pearson's linear correlation.

analyses were performed using statgraphics plus version 5.1 2001.results and discussionintake of mrps markersthe daily intake of different mrps from the dietary treatments is depicted in .

in fact the highest values of cml and hmf consumption were recorded for the bc and insoluble groups suggesting that the insoluble form of protein bound cml and linked hmf was probably the main form of amadori compounds present in these diets .intestinal weight and water content of depositionsit has been a long time since compiled information from several authors reporting increases in relative heart lung cecum intestine spleen and stomach weights after consumption of diets including different kinds of model or food mrps.

