to identify the molecular mechanisms that mediate beneficial effects of prebiotics the authors examined scfas a byproduct of prebiotic administration and suggest that changes in scfas may mediate the impact of prebiotics on brain systems and behavior.

it is important to note that there is specificity in the nature of bacterial production of scfas  and although the evidence suggests that these metabolites may mediate some of the beneficial effects of diet interven- tions additional approaches are needed to directly asses the source and action of scfas in animal and human studies.as noted above probiotics on the market and showing beneficial effects on mental health and brain function are limited in number.

scfas produced by gut bacteria influence other commensals and are important to gut physiology but they are also part of microbiota-host signaling systems that extend beyond the gut .

in this fast-moving field of research the key questions remain is the growing attention to microbes and mood hype--or is there hope and opportunity for identifying novel approaches to improve mental healthmicrobiota cover all surfaces of our body and include bacteria viruses fungi parasites and protozoa however neuroscience and psychiatry research has focused predomi- nantly on gut microbiota.

psychobiotics are live bacteria probiotics or other products prebiotics that when ingested confer mental health benefits through interactions with com- mensal gut bacteria .

in the study 10 weeks of prebiotic administration fos alone gos alone or a combi- nation of fos 1 gos in healthy male adult mice resulted in changes in the composition of gut microbiota and related changes in scfas .

addi- tionally prebiotic administration during chronic stress normal- ized the effects of stress on behavior neurochemistry and the stress axis.

prebiotics are dietary products that when consumed can be fermented by commensal gut bacteria and alter microbiota composition or function .

explore the beneficial effects of prebiotics fructo-oligosaccharides fos and galacto-oligosaccharides gos on behavior in healthy mice and further investigate the ability of prebiotics to counter the impact of stress in mice.

provides convincing evidence for beneficial effects of prebiotics on microbiota- brain systems in healthy mice and in stress conditions.

the opinions results and conclusions are those of the authors and no endorsement by the ontario brain institute is intended or should be inferred.article informationfrom the department of psychiatry  behavioural neurosciences mcmaster university hamilton ontario canada.address correspondence to jane a. foster ph.d. department of psychiatry  behavioural neurosciences mcmaster university  st. joseph's healthcare 50 charlton avenue east t3308 hamilton on l8n 4a6 canada e-mail received aug 4 2017 accepted aug 4 2017.referencesflbiological psychiatry october 1 2017 82456-457 457

changes in scfas were associated with several outcomes but it was not determined if these associations are the result of local effects of scfas or remote effects.

a few studies have demonstrated beneficial effects on health and disease following prebiotic administration .

for exam- ple in the current study the relative abundance of lactoba- cillus and bifidobacterium notably the two most prominent probiotics on the market with demonstrated beneficial effects in animal and clinical studies  showed reduced relative abundance following prebiotic administration but no differ- ences in abundance when measured by polymerase chain reaction.

biological psychiatry october 1 2017 82456-457 issn 0006-3223commentarysystem-related systems support the interpretation that beha- vioral changes occurring following prebiotic administration are a result of microbiota-brain related signaling.

