4 twelve h fasting blood glucose a blood glucose clearance over time for gtt b glucose tolerance test auc c 4 h fasting blood glucose d blood glucose clearance over time for itt e and insulin tolerance test auc f. values are presented as means - sem for n  8 replicates n  7 for hf10.

1.1epidemiological and clinical studies suggest that consump- tion of grapes and grape products may help reduce the risk of certain diseases including cardiovascular disease metabolic syndrome and cancer.27 the effects of grapes including improvement of endothelial function reduction of platelet aggregation inhibition of weight gain due to high-fat feeding and increasing insulin sensitivity have all been linked to their flavan-3-ol content.18-10 feeding studies employing grape seed extract gse rich in flavan-3-ols have demonstrated its ability to reduce weight and fat gain prevent insulin resistance and improve glucose tolerance reduce inflammation and increase mitochondrial function.11 one area that has not been fullyexplored previously is the subject of skeletal muscle metabolic substrate utilization which is the ability of the muscle to utilize different fuel sources glucose fatty acids or amino acids depending on availability.12 fatty acid and glucose metabolism dysfunction at the mitochondrial level are charac- teristic of diet-induced obesity.13 several prior studies havefig.

a 12 h fast preceded gtts to significantly reduce blood glucose and to allow observation of true fasting blood glucose reflecting gluconeogenesis in the liver and glucose excursions.

fatty acid metabolism occurs at a higher rate compared to control groups while glucose oxi- dation is reduced contributing to insulin resistance and glucose intolerance.13 in this study no significant differ- ences were observed between any treatment or control groups in terms of fatty acid or glucose oxidation.

blood samples were not collected during glucose and insulin tolerance tests serum insulin ana- lysis only a small drop was obtained for blood glucose read- ings which would indicate whether gse itself stimulates glucose uptake or whether it promotes insulin secretion from the b-cells of the pancreas.

mouse body composition  lean fat and fluid mass was measured in duplicate every 4 weeks using a bruker lf90 nmr analyzer billerica ma usa.glucose and insulin tolerance testingglucose tolerance was measured in week 14. for the glucose tolerance test gtt mice were fasted for 12 h and then received an intraperitoneal ip injection of 16.7 wv glucose solution hospira inc. lake forest il pharma- ceutical grade in saline volume adjusted for each mouse to provide 1 g per kg body weight.

mice fed the hf0 diet also exhibited significantly impaired glucose clearance as measured by the blood glucose auc during gtt compared to mice fed the lean control dietfig.

4d.however the hf100 group had significantly impaired insulin sensitivity compared to lean control 4e and f. the hf0 and hf10 groups had insulin sensitivities that were not signifi- cantly different from the lean control or the hf100 suggesting again that the lower gse dose is slightly more effective at pre- venting insulin resistance than the higher dose during theinitial stages of diabetes onset.based on the reduction in 12 h fasting glucose produced by low dose gse and subsequent improved gtt clearance but overall lack of effect on itt our data suggest that this hf feeding model did not yet result in insulin intolerance in major insulin-utilizing tissues such as skeletal muscle but did potentially induce mild fasting hyperglycemia  potentially by slight dysregulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis.skeletal muscle metabolismfatty acid and glucose oxidation experiments were performed in harvested mouse skeletal muscle homogenates fig.

interestingly the lower gse dose appeared to be more effective than the high dose at reducing the markers of metabolic syndrome measured here including fat gain 12 h fasting glucose levels and glucose tolerance.

after 12 weeks the lower dose of grape seed extract was more effective at inhibiting fat gain and improving glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity.

evaluation of the ability of each treatment to prevent weight and fat gain insulin resistance and impaired glucose toler- ance and changes to the bacterial populations of the small intestine cecum and colon was performed.

diets were stored at -20 degc for the duration of the study to prevent lipid degradation.body weight and compositionmice were weighed weekly throughout the study up to week 13 at which point fasting for glucose and insulin tolerance tests interfered with accurate body weight determinations.

blood glucose was measured at 0 baseline 30 60 90 and 120 min post-injection using one touch ultra blue test strips lifescan inc. milpitas ca and a standard glucometer.

blood glucose was measured as described for gtt.

for both gtt and itt the area under the curve auc of the blood glucose plot for each test was deter- mined by the trapezoidal method using pharmacokinetic pk plug-in functions for microsoft excel software.euthanasia and necropsyanimals were euthanized with co2 following avma guide- lines.

