t. wubeijing advanced innovation center for food nutrition and human healthbeijing technology  business university beijing chinadoi 10.1002mnfr.201700473introductioncardiovascular diseases cvd such as atherosclerosis myocardial infarction and cerebral infarction are estimated to be the leading risk factor for mortalities worldwide.12 contemporary lifestyle especially consumption of diets rich in choline phosphatidylcholine or carnitine-rich nutrients such as red meat egg yolks and high-fat dairy products serve as dietary risk factors for atherosclerotic events because of trimethylamine tma generation in the gut.34 the gut-microbiota-dependent metabolites tma and trimethylamine n-oxide tmao which is produced by the catalysis of host hepatic flavin monooxygenases fmos accelerate atherosclerosis risks in animal models and clinical studies.56 therefore the targeted inhibition of microbial tma lyases and the meta-organismal pathway responsible for tma production are interesting for the development of poten- tial anti-atherosclerotic therapies.78 for example 33-dimethyl-1-butanol dmb a structural analog of choline found in certain balsamic vinegars red wines cold-pressed extra virgin olive oils and grape seed oils has been reported to non-lethally inhibit tma formation fromcultured microbes inhibit distinct microbial tma lyases and re- duce tma levels in mice fed with high-choline or l-carnitine diet.9accumulating evidence demonstrate that diet significantly influences health outcomes by modulating gut microbiota composition.1011 dietary fibers dfs especially from cereal brans are particularly promising candidates for dietary sup- plementation and functional food development because of their effects on cvd risk and the ability to alter the taxon composition and metabolic activity of intestinal microbiota.1213 furthermore dfs possess near-zero energy value except for a part of energy derived from short chain fatty acids scfas such as acetate propionate and butyrate produced by the intestinal microbiota.1415 concentrated water-soluble dietary fiber sdf which enhances the feeling of fullness stimulates the release of appetite-suppressing hormones and binds cholesterol to stool during digestion is currently being supplemented in diets as an alternative source of df.16 thus consumption of food fortifiedwith sdf is a desirable choice for improving health conditions as it has positive effects on host metabolism post-fermentation of sdf in the intestinal tract.1718however the intestinal microbiota-mediated changes in metabolic activity and plasma tma concentration and their mechanisms have not been well understood owing to the com- plexity of the microbial community.19 sdf and gut microbiota- derived metabolites exert multiple beneficial effects on host metabolism by improving the intestinal environment directly af- fecting various host peripheral tissues or stimulating mediators such as atp.20 to better understand the mechanism underlying the sdf-induced reduction in tma and tmao levels interac- tions between sdf-diet interventions and the intestinal micro- biota specific microbial enzyme activities related metabolic fac- tors in diverse gut environments and intestinal epithelial cells are discussed.the purpose of this study was to determine whether sdf sup- plementation to red-meat diet decreased plasma tma concentra- tion and positively modulated the gut microbiota to inhibit lyase activity in a structure- and dose-dependent manner.

for example degrada- tion of these specific polysaccharides by the gut microbiota involves the production of specific enzymes such as xylanases arabinoxylanases and b-glucanases.3738 in addition these pentosans differ in molecular weight and substitution degree arabinosexylose which may also exert different modulatory effects on gut microbiota.39 since gut microbiota fermentation may depend on the structure and size of the sdf molecules.response of gut microbiota structure and tma or tmao production to sdf intervention in miceto identify functional traits linking clusters that thrived on diets we selected the top 35 abundant taxa clusters and performed a literature search for their lifestyle traits.

data are presented as mean - standard error from the mice in each group.bacterial taxa.340 however the complexity of the gut microbiota and host environmental factors have hindered the determination of accurate taxonomic composition and community structure.42 in line with our observation the tma metabolism profiles of the rm and hf groups were opposite although animals in both groups contained relatively high proportion of lacto- bacillus belonging to phylum firmicutes table 10 supporting information.statistical differences in gut microbiota induced by sdf dietssixty male c57bl6 mice aged 4 weeks were purchased from the national academy of military medical sciences to investigate the interactions between sdf diet and the gut flora.

s. desai a. m. seekatz n. m. koropatkin n. kamada c. a. hickey m. wolter n. a. pudlo s. kitamoto n. terrapon a. mullerv.

the trans-membrane transports of most solutes were mediated by membrane transport proteins which involved the consumption of metabolic energy usually atp.42 carbohydrate metabolism denoted the various biochemical processes responsi- ble for the catabolism and interconversion of carbohydrates en- ergy storage and absorption in living organisms.47 the bacteriathat caused higher energy harvest from the diet possibly induced the expression of genes related to carbohydrate metabolism and atp production.discussionatp is required for lyase activity during tma metabolism indi- cating the necessity of an atp-dependent repair mechanism.45 ampk is allosterically activated by an increase in ampatp ra- tio and its role in the regulation of food intake inhibition whole body energy homeostasis and regulation of hormones acting on the hypothalamus has been addressed.47 since ampk is a sen- sor of cellular energy status the intestinal ampk of hosts could be activated in response to nutrient deficiency and caloric re- striction as in the case of sdf supplementation to red meat diet hf group.48 ampk activation occurs in response to metabolic stress that impairs atp production when cellular energy sta- tus is compromised such as loss in glucose content with sdf supplementation.49 this activation switches off atp-dependent processes required for whole body energy homeostasis.50 there- fore we reasonably speculated that activated intestinal epithe- lial ampk had a suppressive effect on lyase production by the gut flora and on the interactions with transporters which were energy-dependent events figure 6. increase in the expression of ampk and scfa acetate and butyrate upon the inhibition of tma lyase activity and the abundance of predicted genes involved in membrane transport and carbohydrate metabolism in the hffigure 5. predictive functional profiling of gut microbiota and intestinal epithelial ampk levels in rm and hf group animals.

data are presented as mean standard deviation n 10. the bar columns with different small case letters indicate significant differences p  0.05 two-sided t-test.showed the highest acetic acid 95.6 and lowest butyric acid and isoamyl acid 0.11 and 0.31 content.composition and diversity of gut bacterial communities in mice on different dietsafter 4 weeks on different diets shown in table 4 supporting information multiplex sequencing of the v3-v4 regions of 16s rrna gene was performed to characterize the bacterial compo- sition and microbial community diversity of the digestive tract samples in different groups figure 2 and table 5-10 support- ing information.compared to the control group we observed a significant in- crease in gut community richness observed species chao1 and ace and diversity shannon simpson and a diversity indices in the rm group  table 5 supporting information and figure 2a indicating an increased complexity of the gut microbiota in ani- mals on red meat diet.35 however lf and hf interventions did not significantly increase microbial complexity tables 5-6 sup- porting information and figure 2a but considerably changed similarity b diversity tables 7-8 supporting information and figure 2b with the control group.

the increased complexity of gut microbiota has been suggested to enhance nutrition and en- ergy harvest36 consequently sdf supplementation-induced de- creased gut microbiota complexity could indicate relatively lower energy harvest.

unlike previous reports odoribacter showed significantly negative association p  0.05 with plasma tma in our study.38 although animals of both the rm and hf groups were characterized by enrichment of the genus lactobacillus n 10 one of the typical probiotics animals in the rm group had significantly higher plasma tma and tmao concentrations than those of the hf group figure 3a and b. remarkably sdf diets also elicited transcriptional responses that were consistent with known differences in gene expression among gut microbiomes such as the differences in tma lyase expression between choline catabolism versus tma production and the interconversions of tmao figure 3b and c.4041previous studies have focused on the mechanism of plasmatma and tmao level reduction by diet-induced specificfigure 3. occurrence of bacterial taxa in response to sdf-diets annotated by heatmap and choline metabolism by gut flora.

d the pca plot of kegg modules with significant mean proportion differences and ko abundances.group animals also provided evidence that was consistent with the potential mechanism.therefore we reasonably speculated that activated intestinal epithelial ampk had a suppressive effect on lyase production by the gut flora and on the interactions with transporters which were energy-dependent events figure 6. increase in the expres- sion of ampk and scfa acetate and butyrate upon the inhibi- tion of tma lyase activity and abundance of predicted genes in- volved in membrane transport and carbohydrate metabolism in the hf group animals also provided evidence that was consis- tent with potential mechanism.5152 ampk is also likely to be modulated by these effectors because they can interfere in atp production.155354dietary supplementation of fermented sdf reduces the amount of harmful bacteria enriches probiotics and co-regulates host ampk activation pathways which demonstrates the ben-eficial effects of positive modulations of the gut microbiota on inhibiting lyase activity and tma production in a composition structure and dose-dependent way.

the other diets ln hn lf hf le and he groups were based on 20 red meatsupplementation according to the western-style diet with sdf arabinoxylan-rich fractions 7.5 for low sdf dose and 15 for high sdf dose complete composition of experimental diets is presented in table 2 supporting information from wheat bran.

subsequent analysis of statistical differences in gut flora composition and spearman correlation between relative abundance of gut microbiota and mouse plasma tma and tmao concentrations were performed.

pca and hierarchical clustering of the gut micro-bial gene expression profiles supported our finding that the rm diet had a significantly different impact on gut microbiota figure 2c and d. we hierarchically clustered phylum-level bacterial tax- onomic groups by relative abundance which suggested that the sdf-diets significantly inhibited the firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio than the red meat-based diet figure 2e.

considering the aforementioned changes in the complexity of the gut microbial community alternative mecha- nisms for tma or tmao formation might exist in addition to the involvement of specific bacterial taxa.the intestinal epithelial ampk catalytic activity and predicted metagenomes in mice on different dietsaccumulating evidence suggest that ampk plays an important role in the regulation of energy homeostasis and interferes with atp production43 therefore ampk pathways could be the key sites for integration of multiple signaling pathways in metabolic regulation.44 to examine whether dietary variations alter expres- sion of mitochondria-related proteins in the intestinal epitheliumfigure 4. lefse analysis and t-test identified the most differentially abundant taxons of gut microbiota between groups.

a. koeth z. wang b. s. levison j. a. buffa e. org b. t. sheehye.

smith h. allayee w. h. w. tang j. a. didonato a. j. lusis s. l. hazen nature 2011 472 57.z.

