2016. for example bacteroides fragilis-derived evs carrying polysaccharide a delivered to intestinal dendritic cells and could be sensed by tlr2 and also bacteroides thetaiotaomicron evs contain hydrolytic enzymes that increase the potential digestion of gut microbiota by sharing these enzymes with bacteria lacking the hydrolytic enzymes shen et al.

2016. therefore we propose that in leaky gut syndrome the probable harmful effect of gut microbiota could be replacedand inverted by gut microbiota-derived evs treatment.does any of evs have priority to be called beneficialin a fascinating study kang et al.

gut barrier alterations are responsible for metabolic endotoxemia leading to low-grade inflammation and metabolic disorders everard and cani 2013. according to the complexity of gut microbiota and its interaction with the host it is crucial to investigate the immune system and structures of microbiota which have a regulative character thaiss et al.

this leads to the triglycerides increase which is stored in the liver tremaroli and backhed 2012.celluzzi and masotti emphasized that the gene expression of the intestinal tissue and the gut microbiota composition might be generally correlated celluzzi and masotti 2016. they also suggested that the relationships between non-coding rnas ncrnas and microbiota deserved more investigation in order to unravel their mutual role in influencing the host immune system and related processes celluzzi and masotti 2016. bacteria might release some soluble factors other than toxins or other peptides that could function as a communication vector and small rnas within the omvs might be one of these vectors koeppen et al.

therefore they considered being diet-dependent metabolites brestoff and artis 2013. in addition gut microbiota generates various diet-independent metabolites which include lipopolysaccharide lps and peptidoglycan pg as well as evs caricilli and saad 2013.in the intestinal immune system maintaining homeostasis is challenging van den elsen et al.

2012.therefore the administration of bacterial specific strains derived evs may modulate immune signaling pathways host nutrition and bacterial metabolites production shenderov 2013. the ev-based network likely represents important relationships creating organized ecological units within the intestinal microbiota mitsuhashi et al.

2016.the orchestra of gut microbiota in health and diseasesthe number of bacteria in the human body is about 3.81013 which is approximately equal to 10 times the number of our total cells sender et al.

the gut microbiota has been developed in the presence of host cells and has demonstrated significant effects on host responses lloyd-price et al.

the interaction between gut microbiota and the host involves a complex network of signaling pathways thompson et al.

also the gut microbiota affects other communication pathways between the gut and the brainincluding the nervous immune and endocrine systems van den elsen et al.

we propose to use various evs not only as adjuvants for vaccination moshiri et al.

2015.the characterization of evs biological roles has become a fascinating research field due to their potential properties in vaccination therapeutic applications as vehicle in drug delivery and target therapy positional assembly of enzyme expression and their ability in carrying small molecule activators and inhibitors of quorum sensing moshiri et al.

therefore regarding the effective roles of evs any changes in ev production can influence the host signaling pathways li et al.

instead application of a. muciniphila-derived evs impaired the progression of the disease kang et al.

however evs produced by a. muciniphila demonstrated to ameliorate disease severity kang et al.

