Here we report that aged mice of two different strain backgrounds have increased alveolar bone levels after receiving rapamycin either throughout life or tran- siently for 8 weeks.ResultsIn order to quantitate periodontal disease in mice we evaluated alveolar bone levels by high-resolution microCT imaging of the maxilla Fig.

Although we cannot definitively state that this short-term treatment with rapamycin induces rejuvena- tion of alveolar bone levels in the aged oral cavity due to the lack of longitudinal data for each animal it is unlikely that this magnitude of effect could be achieved simply be preventing bone loss over an 8-week period.

Transient treatment with rapamycin or a rapamycin derivative has also been shown to delay immune stem cell senescence and reju- venate immune function in aged mice and elderly peo- ple.

Because rapamycin and rapamycin deriv- atives have been used clinically for many years safety and dosing are well established and are compatible withGeroScience 2017 39457-463461Fig.

J Periodontol 86611-622Fischer KE et al 2015 Health effects of long-term rapamycin treatment the impact on mouse health of enteric rapamycin treatment from four months of age throughout life.

Health Aff 321698-1705Halloran J et al 2012 Chronic inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin by rapamycin modulates cognitive and non- cognitive components of behavior throughout lifespan in mice.

Here we describe significant alveolar bone loss during aging in two different mouse strain back- grounds and report that rapamycin treatment is sufficient to reverse age-associated periodontal disease in mice.

we assessed the impact of rapamycin on periodontal bone levels in aged mice.

S1.We next quantified alveolar bone loss in young adult 9-10 month and old female C57BL6JNia mice and in aged mice treated with encapsulated rapamycin eRAPA at 14 ppm in the diet for 8 weeks beginning at 22 months of age.

Thus we estimate that 8 weeks of treatment with rapamycin at 14 ppm in the diet from 22 months of age is sufficient to prevent at least one third of the alveolar bone loss experienced by C57BL 6JNia mice between 3 and 22 months of age Fig.

