attempts have been made to establish causality by combining dna methylation data with genetic data from the same individuals using the mendelian randomization approach.using this approach it was demonstrated that most of the identified obesity-associated changes in dna methyla- tion in adults were likely to be a consequence of the obese phenotype rather than the cause.in line with this it has been shown that weight loss in obese subjects can partly reverse obesity-associated dna methylation changes back to normal levels.-however even if many of the identified dna methylation changes might not be causal factors in obesity development dna methylation changes have been successful in predicting future risk for t2dmand as such may be useful markers to identify obese individuals at increased risk for metabolic health problems.

dna methylation results in an altered dna structure and chromatin state and although dna methylation is essential for gene regulation in some species in others it is absent such as some species of yeast fruit fly and worms.histone modifications such as methylation acetylation and phosphorylation occur on lysine arginine and serine residues514t.

exposure of immature human colonic epithelial cells to a bacterial cocktail resulted in changes to dna methylation in over 200 genomic regions.yu et al.

this idea is supported by a study in mice that showed a relationship between prenatal- administration of glucocorticoids immediate postnatal epi- genetic state in colonocytes and microbial complexity.in a further mouse study colonocyte dna methylation at the promoter of the tlr4 gene which functions in the innate immune system was associated with microbiota complex- ity.furthermore liu et al.

fecal levels of six scfas were associated with global dna methylation in human rectal biopsies.remely et al.

finally we discuss the role of the microbiome and how it is a new player in developmental programming and mediating early life exposures on later risk of chronic disease.received 17 july 2017 revised 15 august 2017 accepted 16 august 2017 first published online 11 september 2017key words animal models diet epigenetics metabolic health microbiomeepigenetic mechanismsthere are numerous definitions of epigenetics including the study of modifications such as dna methylation histone modifications and non-coding rnas which result in altered gene regulation without changing the underlying dna sequence.

hif3a srebp1 cpt1a abcg1 txnip phos-pho1 in multiple cohorts and in different ethnicities.-epigenetics and dohad515a recent ewas the largest of its kind to date n  10261 showed that body mass index bmi as a measure of obesity is associated with widespread changes in dna methylation in genes involved in metabolic and inflammatory pathways.in most human studies the methylation changes are mea- sured when the obese or diabetic phenotype is already present and it is therefore difficult to establish whether the observed dna methylation changes are on the causal pathway to develop the disease or whether they are a consequence of the phenotype.

dna methylation of loci within abcg1 and phospho1 in blood dna is associated with future type 2 diabetes risk.

egcg prevents high fat diet-induced changes in gut microbiota decreases of dna strand breaks and changes in expression and dna methylation of dnmt1 and mlh1 in c57bl6j male mice.

lillycrop et al.

using a rat model of maternal care pup grooming and nursing weaver et al.

at least for some of the identified metabolic health-related methylation changes there is a consistency in methylation patterns over multiple tissues such as adipose tissue muscle liver brain and pancreas.for example kuhnen et al.

2005 135 1382-1386.weaver ic cervoni n champagne fa et al.

2008 118 2316-2324.sandovici i smith nh nitert md et al.

2011 108 5449-5454.ferland-mccollough d fernandez-twinn ds cannell ig et al.

