efull length articleeffects of organic acids and essential oils blend on growth gut microbiota immune response and disease resistance of pacific white shrimp litopenaeus vannamei against vibrio parahaemolyticuswangquan he  samad rahimnejad  ling wang kai song kangle lu chunxiao zhangxiamen key laboratory for feed quality testing and safety evaluation fisheries college jimei university xiamen 361021 chinaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 5 july 2017 received in revised form 23 august 2017accepted 1 september 2017available online 4 september 2017keywords litopenaeus vannamei organic acids essential oilsgut microbiota immune response disease resistancea b s t r a c t an 8-week feeding trial was undertaken to evaluate supplemental effects of aviplusr ap a blend of organic acids citric acid 25 sorbic acid 16.7 and essential oils thymol 1.7 vanillin 1.0 on growth gut microbiota innate immunity and disease resistance of pacific white shrimp litopenaeus vannamei against vibrio parahaemolyticus.

among the dietary supplements tested in aquafeeds so far organic acids are increasingly gaining interest because of their strong antimicrobial and prophylactic properties against various pathogenic bacteria e. organic acids are generally composed of short-chain fatty acids c1-c7 volatile fatty acids and weak carboxylic acids with one or more carboxyl groups in their structure.

also the groups received 0.3e0.9 g kg-1 ap exhibited significantly higher expression of catalase gene than control c. however expression of crustin gene was not significantly affected by dietary treatments d.organic acids have been widely used as dietary supplements for promoting growth performance in pigs and poultry feed e. beneficial effects of organic acids supplementation on growth performance have also been reported in several aquatic animals including red hybrid tilapia oreochromis sp.

to date numerous studies have been conducted on individual application of organic acids and essential oils as dietary additives for aquatic animals however to the best of our knowledge there is no available report on the use of organic acids and essential oils mixture in shrimp feed.

activities  and increased survival rate of shrimp has been shown by organic acids application e. results of the current study showed that adding 0.3 g kg-1 organic acids and essential oils blend to the control diet signifi- cantly enhances disease resistance of pacific white shrimp tov.

reported enhanced growth of white shrimp following dietary administration of 2 organic acids blend consisted of for- mic lactic malic and citric acids.

this could be attributed to the ph reducing property of organic acids which is favorable for the growth of gut beneficial bacteria while suppressing the growth of pathogenic bacteria which grow at a relatively higher ph .

currently there is an increasing tendency of using organic acids in commercial aquafeeds both for controlling dis- ease and enhancing growth performance.

improved growth feed utilization and disease resistance have been reported in several fish species offered diets supplemented with organic acids their salts or mixtures .

organic acids inhibit microbial growth and the uptake of pathogens and their metabolites .

the variations in the effects of organic acids on growth per- formance could be associated with their type and dose different dietary compositions and species-specific and age differences .

it has been pointed out that organic acids inhibit the growth of many pathogenic or nonpathogenic intestinal bac- teria and decrease the intestinal colonization and infectious pro- cesses which finally results in reduction of inflammatory reactions at the intestinal mucosa .

suggested that di- etary organic acids can alter the intestinal environment to a less appropriate condition for pathogenic bacteria growth or killing some pathogens.

koh k. sudesh a. siti-zahrah effects of dietary organic acids on growth nutrient digestibility and gut microflora of red hybrid tilapia oreo- chromis sp.

hossain a. pandey s. satoh effects of organic acids on growth and phosphorus utilization in red sea bream pagrus major fish.

