parasites  vectors 2017 10416doi 10.1186s13071-017-2352-9bacterial microbiota associated with rhipicephalus sanguineus s.l.

sanguineus sensu lato s.l.. within r. sanguineus s.l.

two parapatric lineages were identified based on phylogeny of mitochondrial 16s and 12s rdna genes a temperate southern americanwestern european lineage and a tropical southern americanafrican lineage rhipicephalus sanguineus s.l.

sanguineus s.l.

as no genetic difference using 16s and 12s rdna fragments was shown between tick speci- mens collected in the sampled regions the possibility that such differences in prevalence of infection could be associ- ated with differences in microbiota within r. sanguineus s.l.

specimens was suggested .to get further insight into bacterial communities hosted by r. sanguineus s.l.

to overcome misinterpretations linked to the controversial taxonomic status all r. sanguineus s.l.

then high-throughput 16s rrna amplicon sequencing was performed to describe the diversity and structure of bacterial communities interact- ing with r. sanguineus s.l.

from different origins.methodssamplingthe survey was conducted in four areas from southern france corsica drome gard and var one location in senegal dakar area and one location in usa san carlos area arizona table all study sites were se- lected because of the high prevalence of r. sanguineus s.l.

taking into account the complex taxonomic status of r. sanguineus s.l.

in the case of ticks collected from dogs only the least blood- engorged ticks were kept additional file table s1.dna extractiondna was extracted as previously described and the quality assessed by pcr amplification of a 400 bptable 1 information on the 40 r. sanguineus s.l.

for each series of extractions a negative control corresponding to an extraction tube without a tick sample was performed in parallel.fr-d2drome france44deg32'n 4deg56'ef1rhipicephalus sanguineus s.l.

haplotypingproducts of pcr amplification of the mitochondrial 12s rrna genes of all r. sanguineus s.l.

sequences obtained were manually corrected by visual analysis of the electropherogram aligned and assembled by haplotypes using bioedit v7.0.5.3 the consensus sequence of each r. sanguineus s.l.

the 400 bp sequences of r. sangui- neus s.l.

