the spiked sediment was taken at the start and end of the experiment for chemical analysis of total cu by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy 20. the measured concentrations did not differ from the nominal spiked concentrations by more than 10.sediment toxicity bioassayssediment toxicity experiments were performed following the procedures described in gagliardi et al.

the diversity of microcommunities was estimated by the chao1 method which is the most popular bioindex for microbial community assessment 32. highlytolerant taxa were those with a relative abundance positively correlated with spiked cu in pearson correlation analysis rho  0.5 and p  0.05. the emergence time of chironomids is the time from the second-instar larvae being added at the start of the experiment to the emergence of adults.the threshold of spiked cu to microbiota was determined by the lower quartiles of the ec10 values of all sensitive taxa.

in chironomid experiments the weighted unifrac distances of prokaryotic communities were changed significantly when spiked cu was 250 mgkg and the weighted unifrac distance of eukaryotic communities was changed significantly when spiked cu was 500 mgkg table 1.in addition alpha-diversity measures chao1 index were significantly different among the spiked-cu treatments figure 3cd.

was positively correlated with spiked cu.twenty-two out of 932 prokaryotic taxa from 4 phyla proteobacteria actinobacteria chloroflexi and cyanobacte- ria were negatively correlated with increased concentrations of spiked cu in both amphipod and chironomid experimentsfigure 2 composition of microbial communities in sediments from ecotoxicity test using amphipods or chironomids.figure 3 structures and diversity of eukaryotic and prokaryotic communities in spiked-cu sediments.

the affected taxa were screened by the pearson correlation analysis p  0.05 and rho  0.5. the color indicates the fold change of the abundance of each taxon orange 14 abundance is up green 14 abundance is down.experiments whereas dinophyta and archaeplastida had higher abundances in chironomid than in amphipod experiments figure 5e.thresholds of spiked cu to microbiota in sedimentsthe relative abundance of 51 microbiota 22 prokaryotes and 29 eukaryotes was decreased by spiked cu in both amphipod and chironomid experiments.

the threshold values of cu inchironomid and amphipod experiments were 57.5 and 66 mgkg respectively figure 6. this threshold means that at least 75 of sensitive microorganisms were affected by the spiked cu in sediment.discussionthe effects of spiked cu on the composition of benthic microeukaryotic and prokaryotic communities in sediment were assessed by dna metabarcoding in laboratory-based sedimentfigure 5 differences in microbiota between amphipod and chironomid experiments.

this was consistent with previous mesocosm data showing that chlorophytes were both tolerant and sensitive to spiked-cu treatments 733. ten fungal taxa chytridiomycetes were negatively associated with spiked cu and 2 fungal taxa penicillium and leotiomycetes were positively associated with spiked cu.

the weighted unifrac distance of eukaryotes between amphipod and chironomid experiments increased in high-spiked cu treatments which further indicated that experimental animalscould affect the response of microeukaryotes to spiked cu.in the present study a large number of eukaryotic and prokaryotic taxa across a broad range of groups in sediments were affected by the spiked cu.

they play a critical role in many important biogeochemical processes including nutrient cycling and degradation of some contami- nants 910 and are essential for survival of animals and plants 11. recent studies on soil microbial ecology have shown that the diversity and composition of microbial communities are the key factors controlling biochemical processes and prevent the invasion of bacterial pathogens 1213. for example a reduction in microbial diversity by dilution reduced nitrogen cycling in soil 14. sediments have a variety of physical- chemical properties as soil however knowledge concerning alteration of the diversity and composition of sediment microbial communities in response to contaminants is limited.the increased resolution of next-generation sequencing technology combined with dna barcoding dna metabarcod- ing has greatly improved our ability to identify diverse taxonomic groups of the microbiota 1516. metabarcodingof dna has the potential to not only assess phylogenetic biodiversity more reliably and rapidly than ever before but also provide a cost-effective tool to evaluate the community structures that are relevant to the function of microbiota 17.the present study investigated the responses phylogenetic diversity community structure and sensitive taxa of the meio- and microbiota in standard sediment toxicity tests of spiked cu.

sediment was sieved to 63 mm and allowed to settle for 24 h. sediment was spiked using methods from simpson et al.

the relative abundance of each taxon was the proportion of reads in each next-generation sequencing sample.statistical analysisall statistical analyses were conducted in r ver 3.3.0. the response of dry weight chironomid emergence rate chirono- mid and survival rate amphipod to spiked-cu exposure was modeled with a 3-parameter log-logistic model and the 50 effect concentration ec50 calculated 30. the relationship between spiked cu and taxon abundance was analyzed by pearson correlation and highly correlated taxa were determined by rho  0.5 and p  0.05. beta diversity was estimated by computing weighted unifrac distances between samples 31. all samples were rarefied at the lowest sequencing depth to reduce biases resulting from differences in sequencing depth 8134 and 14 000 for eukaryotic and prokaryotic communities respectively.

principal component analysis was employed to cluster microbial communities of each sample according to the level of spiked cu.

secondly the relationship between normalized abun- dance and spiked cu was fitted by the 3-parameter log-logistic model and then the ec10 was calculated.

finally the threshold of spiked cu was calculated by the lower quartiles.resultseffect of spiked-cu sediment on c. tepperi anda.

spiked cu significantly inhibited the growth and emergence rate of c. tepperi in a concentration-dependent manner however its survival rate was not significantly altered figure 1a.

