we observed inter-individual differences in response to treatment but no difference in treatment response between microbiota of active and remissive cd p  0.05. there was also no difference on the 0.05 significance level between bp25-3 and mix for both teer and papp ly.to assess the epithelial barrier-improving effect of butyrate an extra caco-2 cell assay was performed where supernatant samples spiked with butyrate all spiked samples contained 2 mm butyrate were compared to non-spiked samples.

during butyrate synthesis butyryl-coa is converted to butyrate by either butyryl-coaacetate coa-transferase using acetate as co-substrate or by butyrate kinase after butyryl-coa phos- phorylation.

patients with cd active and remission were selected as there is a major shift in their butyrate-producing gut microbial community especially in active cd.supplementation of butyrate-producing bacteria to fecal microbiota of five active and five remissive cd patients resulted in increased butyrate and decreased acetate levels during the 65 h incubation upon supple- mentation.

relative concentrations of acetatepropionatebutyrate showed inter-individual differences as well and were on average 632410 range 53-69 acetate 19-33 propionate 8-13 butyrate for active cd and 651813 range 49-79 acetate 12-23 propionate 9-22 butyrate for remissive cd microbiota at the end of incuba- tion.

this was especially the case for treatments fp and mix which resulted in an average increase of butyrate production of 11 active cd and 5 quiescent cd after 18 h. treatment with bp resulted in higher butyrate levels only in case of active cd after 18 h bp 25-3 and bp 1.20 and after 42 h bp 1.20. towards the end of incubation the difference in scfa levels between non-treated and treated microbiota became smaller.the different types of treatment resulted in different changes in scfa levels.

the mix resulted in significantly higher butyrate levels and lower acetate levels compared to bp treatment in microbiota of quiescent cd 18 h and 42 h and active cd 42 h bp25-3 butyrate.

also treatment with fp resulted in significantly higher butyrate levels compared to bp treatment in case of microbiota of cd in remission 42 h.mix of butyrate producers results in highest colonization success.

therefore in the following caco-2 cell experiments 110 vv dilutions of fed batch supernatant was used.caco-2 epithelial cells were grown for 7 days and treated during 11 days of differentiation with supernatant of fed batch system with microbiota of cd patients treated or not no probiotic with a mix of butyrate-producers mix or with b. pullicaecorum 25-3t bp 25-3. butyrate has a positive effect on epithelial barrier function and therefore the samples of the treatment mix were included as these resulted in the highest increase in butyrate levels.

the former is the dominating route for butyrate production by human colon bacteria and it was shown that the supply of exogenous acetate is important to maintain butyrate production.

probiotic treatment with butyrate-producing bacteria has therapeutic potential since these bacteria are depleted in ibd patients and butyrate has beneficial effects on epithelial barrier function and overall gut health.

an alternative approach could be the consumption of butyrate-producing bacteria to increase the in situ butyrate production.

there are a number of in vitro and in vivo studies in different cell lines and rodent colitis models demonstrating the therapeutic potential of butyrate and butyrate-producing bacteria with focus on f. prausnitzii for ibd   .

.treatment with butyrate-producing bacteria results in higher butyrate production.

butyrate spiking of supernatant of microbiota not treated with butyrate-producing bacteria resulted in an improved epithelial barrier fig.

in contrast butyrate spiking of supernatant of microbiota treated with butyrate-producing bacteria bp 25-3 and mix did not result in an improved epithelial barrier compared to non-spiked samples.

