ligation- based sequencing technology provides inherent error cor- rection by two-base encoding which makes the platform much more accurate 34. due to the short sequencing length this methodology has a few restrictions in the microbiome diversity research.in the present study we develop an effective approach using multigroup amplification and massively parallel ligation-based sequencing technology to determine thecoating microbial diversities of different tcm tonguemultiple group pcr primers design.

the results showed that ligation-based parallel sequencing combined with enzyme digestion and multiamplification could expand the effective length of sequencing reads and could be applied in the microbiota analysis.introductionthe complex microbial flora living on or within the human body has long been proposed to contribute to the human health as well as disease eckburg et al.

metagenomic analysis requires deep sequencing data mining and large amounts of sequencing reads for gene assembly and annotation 4 7 .

due to the char-6 jpfpr6 jgdnaacteristic of 2-base encoding in solid sequencing the sequencing reads are in color-space format 0 1 2 3 which stands for the permutation of the adjacent bases.

in order to max- imize the sequencing capacity and simplify the workflow of sample preparation all the samples were operated in a single sequencing run with barcodes added.

the difference of sequencing throughput among six samples was probably due to the sample quality or the procedure of library preparation.taxa assignment of the sequencing reads.

although the short length is the main drawback of solid platform compared to other sequencing technologies our method could extend the effective length of sequencing read to more than 100 bp.

the high-throughput next-generation sequencing ngs platforms have been widely applied in the analysis of bacterial 16s rrna gene.

we developed a methodology based on genus-specific multiprimer amplification and ligation-based sequencing for microbiota analysis.

investigated 19 gastritis patients with a tcm cold syndrome or tcm hot syndrome tongue coating and 8 healthy controls by illumina paired-end double-barcode 16s rrna v6 tag sequencing.

30-3. pyrosequencing technology has the benefits of relatively long length of sequencing read and the drawbacks of high reagent cost and high error rates in homopolymer repeats.

a specific group primer consisted of 22 bp of sequences containing eco57i recognition site and 20 bp of conserved region sequences figure table indicates all the 26 pairs of group primers generated.dna extraction amplification and ligation sequencing library preparation.

six typical samples from two tongue coating types were chosen for thorough parallel sequencing and the clinical parameters of subjectsmentas burlington canada according to manufacturer's instructions.

followed by eco57i digestion products generated by all the genus-specific primers conserving 4 bp of each primer sequence were mixed together to produce the sequencing library.

the results of ligation-based sequencing were millions of reads which were theof ref-db taxa-db were assigned using the original full-length 16s rrna gene sequences by the rdp online classifier h at 80 confidence cut-off.

