very recently the ttrrs genes of salmonella encoding the tetrathionate sensor and response regulator were chromosomally integrated into e. coli strain ngf-1 and served as a functional tetrathionate detection probiotic in a mouse model of inflammation for over 6 months.in light of these advances we developed an engineered strain of ecn harboring a plasmid-based system carrying mchaxibcdef and ttrrsbca capable of producing mcch47 in response to environmental tetrathionate resulting in the ability to inhibit and out-compete salmonella during in vitro experiments.results and discussionconstruction and analysis of a plasmid-based system for the inducible production of microcin h47.

typhimurium figure s2 e. coli nissle 1917 pbr322 and e. coli nissle 1917 pjpmch47 inhibition of e. coli dh5a and s. typhimurium in the presence and absence of 0.2 mm 22'-dipyridyl figure s3 growth curves in lb media under anaerobic conditions with 0.2 mm 22'- dipyridyl author informationcorresponding authortelephone 1508999-8219. e-mail .orcidvanni bucci author contributionsthe manuscript was written through contributions of all authors.

for both strains we followed lenski et al.and our previous work to determine relative fitness assuppress s. typhimurium growth beyond what is obtained in direct competition experiments in an environment without the supplementation of tetrathionate c. the increased competitive advantage of ecn pttrmch47 over s. typhimurium in an environment supplemented with tetrathionate is particularly important considering recent work which has indicated that tetrathionate in the lumen of the inflamed gutprovides a growth advantage for s. typhimurium over the restw  dpi  piend - pi0of the competing microbiota.ipi0pi01outlook.

both ecn pjpmch47 a and e. coli neb10b pjpmch47  were capable of inhibiting both s. typhimurium and e. coli dh5a.

enterica serovar typhimurium atcc 29630 purchased from atcc manassas va. plasmid constructs developed in this work were first transformed by electroporation into e. coli neb10b cells and then to e. coli nissle ecn.

cultures were serially diluted and plated onto macconkey agar for colony enumeration.associated contents supporting informationthe supporting information is available free of charge on the at doi .figure s1 e. coli nissle 1917 pbr322 and e. colineb10b pjpmch47 inhibition of e. coli dh5a ands.

coli resulting in functional tetrathionate reductase activity.

orange indicates genes and reactions needed for mcch47 production cyan indicates genes and reactions related to tetrathionate sensing and utilization.figure 2. a inhibition assays comparing the effect of ecn wt and ecn pjpmch47 against lawns of pathogenic s. typhimurium left and e. coli dh5a right on minimal media supplemented with 22 mm l-rhamnose and 0.2 mm 22'-dipyridyl see .

here we have developed a genetically engineered e. coli that produces a s. typhimu- rium-inhibiting microcin in response to tetrathionate a molecule resulting from the inflammation of the intestine a hallmark of a salmonella infection.using in vitro assays we have shown that ecn pttrmch47 not only preventss.

salmonella species utilize the gene products of the ttr operon ttrrsbca which provide this pathogen with the ability to utilize tetrathionate as a terminal electron acceptor conferring a growth advantage over the competing microbiota during inflammation conditions.the ttrbca genes of salmonella encoding the three subunits of tetrathionate reductase have previously been transferred toe.

plasmid pttrmch47 b was developed to confer utilization of tetrathionate reductase activity and tetrathionate dependent production of mcch47 and was constructed by gibson assembly see .

when testing for tetrathionate addition in iron limitation we observe the expected emergence of inhibition only in the presence of tetrathionate a. supplementation to the media with 0.1 d-glucose reduced inhibition across all experimental conditions ac which is noteworthy in light of published reports which utilize glucose supplemen- tation alongside pttrrs-based induction and mcch47 produc- tion.analysis of tetrathionate-induced inhibition.

typhimurium fitness at 1 mm potassium tetrathionate irrespective of s. typhimurium wt or s. typhimurium pbr322 p  0.02. we also observe that the inhibitory effect is reduced when competition is performed against s. typhimu- rium wt in a media lacking antibiotic addition p  0.05. however because we do not detect significant differences in growth curve dynamics in isolation for any of the strains used in this experiment neither in the presence nor in the absence of tetrathionate  we speculate that this reduced competitiveness against s. typhimurium wt may be due toplasmid loss in the absence of antibiotic.

ttrrsbca was included in the plasmid as opposed to just ttrrs because in riglar et al.the constructed sensor strain when in direct competition with salmonella only detected tetrathionate if the salmonella was incapable of tetrathionate utilization dttrr.solid media inhibition assays.

adherent-invasive escherichia coli that are among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide.according to the cdc drug-resistant salmonella spp.

