Within site increased bacterial richness and diversity in treated RD soils compared to untreated are highlighted in green.diversities were not significantly altered by the treatments in soils at both sites numbers of OTUs Chao1 and Shannon indices Table 1 in comparison to untreated RD soils.

Within site increased and decreased bacterial richness and diversity in treated RD soils compared to untreated are highlighted in green and red respectively.stronger compared to effects seen on the bacterial community composition Tables 2 6 Figures 1 3 especially at site K. Significantly different soil fungal community compositions between untreated RD soils and all kinds of treatments were found except for the soil from Tagetes treatment at site A Table 6.The fungal phylum Ascomycota was most abundant in all soils and at all sites Figure 4 Table S5.

Therefore soil-borne pathogenic nematodes were possibly one of the causal ARD agents in the analyzed soils that were suppressed by the Tagetes treatment.The stronger effect observed on fungal community compositions in RD soils treated with B. juncea and R. sativus compared to bacteria Figures 1 3 Tables 2 6 confirmed the observations made in several other studies when the soils were submitted to products containing ITCs Hollister et al.

Members of the bacterial phyla Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes were observed in significantly higher relative abundances in soils treated with R. sativus compared with untreated RD soils at both sites K and A. Site-dependent effects of the treatments on other bacterial phyla were detected.

At site K members of Arthrobacter were the most dominant in soil treated with B. juncea 5.89 and their relative abundances were about three times higher than those in untreated RD soil Table 3.Members of the bacterial genus Arthrobacter were recorded in significantly enhanced abundance in soils treated with R. sativus 8.61 and 4.33 for sites K and A respectively compared with untreated RD soils.

Another bacterial genus Terrabacter was a common responder in soils treated with R. sativus being significantly enriched at both sites Table 3.For RD soils planted with Tagetes because of site-dependent effects no common responders were observed for bacteria at thegenus levels.

These bacteria showed higher relative abundances in treated RD soils at site K than at site A Table 3.Effects of Treatments on Soil Fungal Community Composition and DiversityThe fungal ITS sequence reads ranged from 24479 to 34494 and from 27123 to 36234 in soils at sites K and A respectively for the different treatments.

Furthermore a positive correlation to growth of the apple M106 plants was demonstrated for the fungal genera Podospora and unclassified Sordariales Table 8.DISCUSSIONChanges in bacterial and fungal community composition and relative abundances based on Illumina sequencing of 16S rRNA gene or ITS fragments amplified from TC-DNAs extracted from soils after treatments with Basamid B. juncea R. sativus and Tagetes were investigated via comparison to corresponding untreated RD soils at two sites in order to identify causes for the differentially improved plant growth in treated soils.The observed differences in soil bacterial and fungal community compositions between the two RD sites were in line with our previous findings Yim et al.

The bacterial genus Arthrobacter was also significantly higher in relative abundance in RD soils treated with gamma irradiation and concomitantly apple plant growth was significantly enhanced in irradiated soils Yim et al.

Therefore increased relative abundance of Curtobacterium in Basamid treated soils might point to species that promoted growth of M106 plants.Members of the bacterial genus Ferruginibacter phylum Bacteroidetes which were identified in significantly higher abundance in B. juncea site K and R. sativus site A treated soils compared with untreated RD soil Table 3 were demonstrated to be able to decompose cellulose Lewin et al.

