the highest relative abundance of candida in the rumen was 56.4 day 7. the relative abundances of knufia microcyclospora microcyclosporella parastagonospora penidiella phoma and uwebaunia in the rumen of s kids were low 2 at all ages while their relative abundances in the rumen of g kids increased with age p  0.05. relative abundances of ruminal neocallimastix and piromyces in s kids increased quadratically with age p  0.05 peaking at 94.2 day 28 and 61.3 day 42 respectively while their ruminal relative abundances in g kids increased linearly with age p  0.05 peaking at 7.1 day 70 and 14.3 day 70 respectively.rumen microbial community changes-protozoaprotozoa began to colonize after day 28 with 99 sequences classified into six genera .

entodinium was the most abundant genera 39.9-96.8 in the rumen with its relative abundance declined linearly p 0.001 in s kids while increased linearly p 0.002 in g kids from day 28 to 70. relative abundances of anoplodinium-diplodinium and polyplastron were high 8.2-87.4 in the rumen of s kids but low 3.0 in the rumen of g kids.

relative abundances of methanimicrococcus and methanosphaera genera were low 2.0 in the rumen of both kids while methanomicrobium genus was only detected in the rumen of s kids at day 28 6.4. furthermore a significant proportion of methanomassilliicoccales from 12.1 to 34.8 was found in the rumen of both groups.rumen microbial community changes-fungitwo fungal phyla ascomycota and neocallimastigomycota and 103 fungal genera were identified with 16 fungal genera each accounting for 0.5 of all sequences .

furthermore expression of tjs declined p  0.05 from day 0 to 70 in the ruminal mucosa of both groups.relationship between microbial community and expression of genes involved in ruminal mucosal innate immune functionas presented in  tlr1 mrna abundance was positively correlated with r  0.50 relative abundances of anaeroplasma knufia piromyces uwebraunia and entodinium while negatively correlated with r  0.50 relative abundances of mbb.

conversely prevotella relative abundance increased drastically p  0.01 with age being the most dominant genus after day 28 20 while bacteroides relative abundance was high 12.1 at only day 7. moreover relative abundances of ruminal bf311 cf231 butyrivibrio pseudobutyrivibrio and fibrobacter in both groups increased quadratically p  0.05 with age.

results showed that higher p  0.05 relative abundances of prevotella butyrivibrio pseudobutyrivibrio methanobrevibacter.gottschalkii neocallimastix anoplodinium- diplodinium and polyplastron and lower relative abundance of methanosphaera p  0.042 were detected in the rumen of s kids when compared to those in g kids.

relative abundances of prevotella asteroleplasma coprococcus were greater p  0.05 while relative abundances of butyrivibrio and pseudobutyrivibrio were lower p 0.011 in the rumen of g kids compared to those in s kids.

and relative abundances of enterococcus and lactobacillus were low 1.0 in the rumen of both groups.rumen microbial community changes-archaeaarchaea were not detectable at day 0 and began to be detected at day 7. the relative abundance of mbb.

the relative abundance of neocallimastix was greater p  0.001 while relative abundances of microcyclosporella knufia parastagonospora and uwebraunia were lower p  0.05 in the rumen of s kids compared to those in g kids.

the relative abundances of anoplodinium-diplodinium and polyplastron were greater p  0.05 while polyplastron relative abundance was lower p  0.001 in the rumen of s kids compared to those in g kids.

finally microcyclosporella and parastagonospora are well-known fungal plant-pathogens     and their greater relative abundances in the rumen of g kids suggest the notion that fungal composition is diet-driven     which provokes further consideration of their roles in modulating host immune function.to our knowledge limited studies research on microbiota and host innate immune function cross-talk in the rumen and how such interaction can be impacted by dietary interventions.

the findings provide useful information in interpreting microbiota and host interactions and developing nutritional strategies to improve the productivity and health of rumen during early life.keywords rumen microbiota mucosal innate immune function animal development process feeding typeintroductionruminants have a remarkable ability to convert human- indigestible plant biomass into human-digestible food products through rumen microbial fermentation  .

although the correlation relationship does not necessarily indicate a direct causal effect the observed multiple significant correlations between relative abundances of these microbial taxa and expression of tlrs provide some insights on potential host-microbiota interaction in the rumen.

another explanation is the reduced permeability of the maturing rumen mucosa as indicated by elevated expression of genes encoding tj proteins in the rumen of s kids preventing luminal microbiota entering the mucosa  .

after solid feed offered differential expression of tlrs and tjs genes was detected between two feeding types with lower expression of genes involved in inflammation and higher expression of genes encoding barrier function in the ruminal mucosa of s kids detailed later.

