vet clin north am food anim pract 2009 25209-20. dotuuminen t suomala p vuorinen s. sarcina ventriculi in blood the first documented report since 1872. bmc infect dis 2013 13169. dotolentino lf kallichanda n javier b yoshimori r french sw. a case report of gastric perforation and peritonitis associated with opportunistic infection by sarcina ventriculi.

ventriculi is associated with gastric ulcers with an incidence of over 30 in sarcina infections and subsequently with an increased risk for emphysematous gastritis and gastric perfora- tion  .

sarcina a new threat in the bariatric era.hum pathol 2015 461405-7. domedlicott sac adams f. sarcina ventricularis complicating a patient status post vertical banded gastroplasty a case report.

the significance of sarcina in routine surgical pathology practice.apmis 2016 1246436-43. docanale-parola e wolfe r. studies on sarcina ventriculi.

its pathogenicity in humans has been questioned until recent years since only few symptomatic infections with sarcina organisms in humans have been described only 22 cases in literature so far - while s. ventriculi has also been detected in asymptomatic subjects  .

dokumar m bhagat p bal a lal s. co-infection of sarcina and giardia in a child.

a rare association of sarcina with gastric adenocarcinoma diagnosed on fine-needle aspiration.

histopathology 2015 67270-2. doberry ac mann s nakshabendi r kanar o cruz d. gastric sarcina ventriculi incidental or pathologic ann gastroenterol 2015 28495.chougule a muthu v bal a rudramurthy sm dhooria s das a et al.

histological examination of esopha- geal and gastric biopsies showed severe ulcerative esophagitis and gastritis next to the presence of bacteria in the gastric and esophageal mucous surface.

histological examination of gastric biopsies showed active gastritis with the presence of microorganisms arranged in tetrads characteristic of s. ventriculi which was confirmed by the is-pro technique.h.

at endoscopic follow-up 6 weeks following antibiotics the gastritis and gastric ulcer were healed completely and s. ventriculi could no longer be detected from the biopsies.

presenting symptoms in patients with s. ventriculi com- monly include abdominal pain nausea vomiting and as in our case delayed gastric emptying  .

it has been suggested that impaired gastric emptying could be a risk factor for the growth of s. ventriculi  .

only seven children with symptomatic s. ventriculi infection have been described in literature so far -   two of them presenting with partial gastric necrosis.

performed in 1911 under strict anaerobic conditions to prove the similarity between s. ventriculi isolated from garden soil and from stomach contents the researchers used from stomach contents from patients with esophageal stenosis and suffering from s. ventriculi infection .

