it was demonstrated that despite the variety of carbohydrates that exhibit the prebiotic activity the effect of their administration is an increased count of beneficial bacteria mostly of the bifidobacterium genus .the mechanism of a beneficial effect of prebiotics on immunological functions remains unclear.several possible models have been proposed prebiotics are able to regulate the action of hepatic lipogenic enzymes by influencing the increased production of short-chain fatty acids scfas such as propionic acid.the production of scfas especially of butyric acid as a result of fermentation was identified as a modulator of histone acetylation thus increasing the availability of numerous genes for transcription factors.the modulation of mucin production.it was demonstrated that fos and several other prebiotics cause an increased count of lymphocytes andor leukocytes in gut-associated lymphoid tissues galts and in peripheral blood.the increased secretion of iga by galts may stimulate the phagocytic function of intra-inflammatory macrophages.the main aim of prebiotics is to stimulate the growth and activity of beneficial bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract which confers a health benefit on the host.

2010 64 636-643.  kadooka y. sato m. ogawa a. miyoshi m. uenishi h. ogawa h. ikuyama k. kagoshima m. tsuchida t. effect of lactobacillus gasseri sbt2055 in fermented milk on abdominal adiposity in adults in a randomised controlled trial.

anaerobe 2013 20 36-41.  jimmysaint-cyr m. haddad n. taminiau b. poezevara t. quesne s. amelot m. daube g. chemaly m. dousset x. guyard-nicodeme m. use of the potential probiotic strain lactobacillus salivarius smxd51 to control campylobacter jejuni in broilers.

of course the effect of the elimination of selected pathogens achieved by the use of prebiotics may be inferior to antibiotics but the properties mentioned above make them a natural substitute for antibiotics .prebiotic substancesthe majority of identified prebiotics are carbohydrates of various molecular structures naturally occurring in human and animal diets.

there are examples of clinical trials during which the prebiotics group received the prebiotic prophylactically or in addition to the standard therapy.table 5. examples of clinical trials regarding the effect of prebiotics on human health.referencessubjectsprebiotictime ofobesity48 healthy adultsmain outcomethere was a reduction in body weight of 1.03 0.43 kg with oligofructose supplementation whereas the control group experienced an increase in body weight of 0.45 0.31 kg over 12 weeks p  0.01. glucose decreased in the oligofructosewith a body mass index in kgm225ofs12 weeksgroup and increased in the control group between the initial and final tests p 0.05. insulin concentrations mirrored this pattern p 0.05. oligofructose supplementation did not affect plasma active glucagon-like peptide 1 secretion.according to a visual analogue scale designed to assess side effects oligofructose was well tolerated.insulin resistance syndrome10 patients withtype 2 diabetes4 weeks double repetitionthe plasma glucose response to a fixed exogenous insulin bolus did not differ at the end of the two periods.

therefore an appropriate combination of both components in a single product should ensure a superior effect compared to the activity of the probiotic or prebiotic alone .the aim of the review was to discuss the mechanisms of action of probiotics prebiotics and synbiotics as well as the current insight into their effect on human health.

mohtadi-nia j. homayouni-rad a. niafar m. asghari-jafarabadi m. mofid v. akbarian-moghari a. effect of probiotic yogurt containing lactobacillus acidophilus and bifidobacterium lactis on lipid profile in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

2012 55 673-678.  kadooka y. sato m. imaizumi k. ogawa a. ikuyama k. akai y. okano m. kagoshima m. tsuchida t. regulation of abdominal adiposity by probiotics lactobacillus gasseri sbt2055 in adults with obese tendencies in a randomized controlled trial.

2013 12 404-406. zarrati m. salehi e. nourijelyani k. mofid v. zadeh m.j. najafi f. ghaflati z. bidad k. chamari m. karimi m. et al.

2005 59 723-726.  bruzzese e. volpicelli m. salvini f. bisceglia m. lionetti p. cinquetti m. iacono g. guarino a. early administration of gosfos prevents intestinal and respiratory infections in infants.

2014 111 1507-1519.  safavi m. farajian s. kelishadi r. mirlohi m. hashemipour m. the effects of synbiotic supplementation on some cardio metabolic risk factors in overweight and obese children a randomized triple-masked controlled trial.

there are many reports on the beneficial effects of prebiotics on human health.high potential is attributed to the simultaneous use of probiotics and prebiotics.

both for reasons of efficacy and of safety the development of prebiotics intended to benefit human health has to take account of the highly individual species profiles that may result .fruit vegetables cereals and other edible plants are sources of carbohydrates constituting potential prebiotics.

the structure of prebiotics should be appropriately documented and components used as pharmaceutical formulas food or feed additives should be relatively easy to obtain at an industrial scale .figure 2. requirements for potential prebiotics .prebiotics may be used as an alternative to probiotics or as an additional support for them.

prebiotics may be classified according to those properties as not digested or only partially digestednot absorbed in the small intestinepoorly fermented by bacteria in the oral cavitywell fermented by seemingly beneficial intestinal bacteriapoorly fermented by potential pathogens in the bowel.carbohydrates such as dietary fibre are potential prebiotics.

