although the particular mechanism of a. baumannii immune evasion remains unclear several immune strategies such as pattern recognition receptors toll-like receptors bactericidal mechanisms chemokine production and phagocytic activity are believed to be leading causes of a. baumannii infection and the immune response against the pathogen .the streptococcus genus comprises human commensal bacteria which seem to have probiotic characteristics .

2. weight change association with a. baumannii infection and s. constellatus protection.table 1ratio of lung and liver to body weight during infection.fig.

therefore we evaluated the s. constellatus ability to protect host against a. baumannii infection by enlight- ening the immune response.to best of our knowledge this study could be the first to reveal that s. constellatus exhibits probiotic features activity againsta.

in a mouse model we explored various parameters which include mouse body weight internal organ weight level of siga and different cytokine changes to evaluate its prophylactic effect against a. baumannii.

reduced body weight loss and organ weight loss was seen due to protection and treat- ment provided by introduction of s. constellatus sc10which in- dicates its prophylactic effect on a. bumannii infection.we also found that ifn-g was increased in the psc10mdinitiallyand subside thereafter.

naso- pharyngeal colonization of a. baumannii facilitates nosocomial respiratory or sepsis infection e.although vaccination promises an efficient routine method to inhibit intestinal colonization of pathogens vaccine development against a. baumannii has been delayed due to various reason including lack of understanding of the interaction betweena.

a clinical strain of a. baumannii isolated from a sputum sample of hospitalized patients diagnosed of respiratory distress.mice modelfemale c57bl6j mice of age 4 weeks weight around 18e20 g obtained and used for the study experiment.

based on body weight pathogenic a. baumannii was administered at 107 cfukg according to the method described by kim et al.

compared with the cont group infection with a. baumannii caused decreased in weight loss.

administration of s. constellatus sc10 was able to control the weight lose induced by a. bumannii infection in both the protected and treated groups.

weight of tsc10md group mice was recovered during the treatment period and comparatively it was higher than protected in last two week time .in the psc10md group s. constellatus sc10 were administered for 1 week and then infected with a. bumannii in second week.

our results show thatadministration of s. constellatus sc10before or after infection would be able to control the weight lose induced by a. bumannii infection in both the psc10md and tsc10md groups.

in this study we describe the inhibitory ability of s. constellatus sc10 in vivo in a mouse model to explore its effectiveness in preventing and treating a. baumannii infection.

ethe effect of immune modulation of streptococcus constellatus sc10 strain upon acinetobactor baumannii infectionabdullah a. alyousef   israa m.s.

streptococcus constellatus frequently isolated from oral cavity was selected for this study to check if its guards against a. baumannii by improving the im- mune response and the immune signalling pathway.

