first the small number of patients 33 in our studytable 4. the 15 most highly abundant bacterial genera as a percentage of the total bacterial genera for each consensus molecular subtype cms as calculated using rna-seq metagenomics.figure 4. heatmap of log2 fold-changes in abundance of bacterial targets analysed using qpcr for each consensus molecular subtype cms.may have resulted in the absence of cms4 patients from our cohort the crc subtyping consortium used 3104 patients' samples in their study.

biofilms facilitate the invasion of the mucous layer and a study by dejea et al.found that biofilms were present in 90 of right-sided crc all of the cms1 tumours in our study were right sided.we also performed targeted analysis of two further oral bacteria p. micra and p. stomatis in our crc cohort.these bacterial species have been identified in metagenomics studies as markers of crc using faecal samples and have been described in an oral-microbe-induced colorectal tumorigenesis model proposed by flynn et al.. interestingly a recent microbiome study by flemer et al.of crc tumour and matched faecal samples found significantly elevated abundance of fusobacterium peptostreptococcus or parvimonas only in a subset of 20-30 of crc patients.

a more detailed analysis of bacterial taxa using non-human rna-sequencing reads uncovered distinct bacterial communities associated with each molecular subtype.

sd standard deviation..analysis of bacterial taxa for each molecular subtype uncovered distinct bacterial communities associated with each cms subtype fig.

although bacterial dysbiosis as shown through 16s rrna and metagen- omics studies have previously been associated with crc compared to controls    and a recent study by burns et al.has linked microbial composition with loss-of-function mutations in tumours this is the first time that different bacterial signatures have been shown to associate with molecular subtypes of crc.increased carriage of fusobacterium nucleatum has been frequently associated with crc-.

using edger bioconductor pack- age v3.14.0 we identified bacterial taxa whose abundances are considerably different among cms subtypes.in this analysis for each crc sample we used the assigned cms subtype together with a list of bacterial taxa identified by kraken and corresponding read counts per taxa as input data.

taken together the strong immunological and inflammatory signatures associated with this crc subtype and the known mechanisms of actions of some of these bacteria in extra-gastrointestinal infections provides aplausible link between the co-occurrence of certain oral bacteria and the development of cms1 type crc.validation of bacterial species in cms using qpcr.

in addition increased abundances of the oral pathogens f. nucleatum p. micra and p. stomatis were associated with cms1.discussionthe two main objectives of our study were the validation of molecular subtypes of crc using published classi- fiers in an independent crc cohort and particularly the examination of differences in bacterial communities associated with different molecular subtypes of crc.

we used each sample within a given subtype as a replicate of that subtype and ran edger v3.14.0 to compare each subtype against all other samples not in the cms subtype e.g.

our tar- geted qpcr analysis of f. nucleatum that showed an increased abundance associated with cms1 also reflects the findings of two studies that found that fusobacterium was associated with a crc subtype characterised by cpg island methylation msi and inflammatory signatures and higher prevalence in right-sided tumours all hallmarks of cms1.although not as well studied as fusobacterium several other oral pathogens or potential pathobionts have been reported to be associated with crc.

future directions would include testing of qpcr panels in a large independent sample set prior to molecular classification using rna-sequencing and investigating the utility of these bacterial markers in non-invasive faecal-based tests.conclusionsin conclusion due to the potentially modifiable nature of gut bacteria identifying the role of particular bacterial species in crc development could have implications for cancer prevention.

we classified 34 tumours into crc subtypes using rna-sequencing derived gene expression and determined relative abundances of bacterial taxonomic groups using 16s rrna amplicon metabarcoding.

the contribution of bacterial species to crc development is increasingly acknowledged and here we sought to analyse crc microbiomes and relate them to tumour consensus molecular subtypes cms in order to better understand the relationship between bacterial species and the molecular mechanisms associated with crc subtypes.

comparison of faecal microbiomes from crc patients and healthy controls-has identified particular bacterial species that are enriched in crc and analysis of tumour adenoma and matched normal tissue from the same patients found that changes in local communities of potentially interacting bacterial taxa are associated with different disease states.

up- or down-regulation as input and calculated a p-value for enrichment of the gene-set in biological categories using fisher's exact test for count data fisher.test method in r. all p-values were adjusted for multiple testing using the false-discovery adjustment method from benjamini  hochberg using r-method p.adjust more informa- tion can be found at .

