bd basal diet nb navy bean.colon crypt length was increased in the proximal colon by both bean diets compared to bd with the longest crypts detected in the bb group a. conversely in the distal colon increased crypt length was elongated by both bean containing diets to a similar degree vs. bd a. proximal colon epithelial cell proliferation ki67 prolifera- tion index was increased by both bean containing diets compared to bd with the largest degree of epithelial cell proliferation detected in the bb dietary group b. distal colon epithelial cell proliferation did not differ between dietary groups pn.05 b. representative images from each dietary group are shown in c.the integrity of the epithelial barrier was initially assessed by gene expression of key apical junctional complex components that function to maintain epithelial barrier integrity .

in the proximal colon goblet cell number was highest in the bb group followed by nb and the lowest number of goblet cells per crypt was detected in the bd a. in the distal colon only the bb diet increased goblet cell number compared to the bd whereas there was no difference between nb and bd a. in agreement with the goblet cell data ab staining of acidic mucins within the colonic crypts of the proximal colon was significantly increased in both bean-fed groups vs. bd with a significantly higher level of staining detected in the bbgroup b. within the distal colon there was no difference between nb and bb however both bean containing diets increased crypt ab staining compared to bd b. representative images of ab stained goblet cells are shown in d. expression of a panel of gut health and colonic function promoting genes were assessed and are presented in c. within the proximal colon mrna expression of the transcription factor klf4 which plays a role in goblet cell differentiation and regulation of epithelial barrier homeostasis and morphology  was increased in both the nb and bb groups vs. bd.

functionally within the proximal colon both bean diets promoted mucus barrier defenses by increasing mrna expression of i klf4 which initiates goblet cell differentiation and plays a role in the regulation of epithelial barrier homeostasis and morphology  ii relmb a goblet cell-secreted hormone that enhances colonic barrier function and integrity up-regulates mucin secretion and regulates colonic inflam- mation  iii muc1 a transmembrane mucin that functions to protect the epithelial barrier  iv mucus layer anti-microbial defenses in the form of reg3g and iga which limit microbialhost tissue interactions at the mucosal surface  .

in support of enhanced epithelial barrierintegrity both bean diets up-regulated mrna expression of compo- nents that comprise apical junctional complexes that control epithelial barrier integrity including zo-1 occludin jam-a and e-cadherin compared to bd d. this was supported by the functional outcome of reduced serum endotoxin levels in bean-fed mice indicative of increased epithelial barrier integrity and decreased barrier permeability.

overall nb and bb improved baseline colonic microenvironment function by altering the microbial community structure and activity and promoting colon barrier integrity and function effects which may prove beneficial in attenuating gut-associated diseases.crown copyright c 2017 published by elsevier inc. all rights reserved.keywords common beans fecal microbiota short-chain fatty acids endotoxin colonic mucosal barrier integrityintroductiongut health is comprised of both host and microbial factors including a functional intact mucosal epithelial barrier and a balanced gut microbiota composition .

both the nb and bb diets increased mrna expression of gpr-43 and gpr109a to a similar degree compared to bd whereas gpr-41 expression was up-regulated by both bean diets but to a greater degree in the bb group compared to bd b.nb and bb diets enhance host colonic mucus and epithelial barrier integrity and functionto determine if the bean diets modulated aspects of baseline colon barrier integrity and function we utilized a comprehensive approach to determine if there were regional differences between the proximal and distal parts of the colon.

specifically only the bb diet increased distal colon goblet cell number and increased proximal colon mrna expression of muc2 which is the predominant gel-forming mucin within the mucus layer that contributes to mucus barrier defense mechanisms  and muc3 which regulates epithelial layerintegrity and promotes epithelial restitution and wound healing .

in agreement with the mrna expression patterns of the apical junctional components in response in bean-fed mice both the nb and bb groups exhibited reduced serum endotoxin levels compared to bd indicative of improved epithelial barrier integrity e. collectively these data demonstrate a functional outcome of beans in reducing epithelial barrier permeability and improving multiple aspects of gut barrier integrity and function in healthy unchallenged mice.discussionin the present study we assessed the gut health promoting effects of two bean varieties nb and bb which differ in seed coat color and phenolic compound composition within the colonic microenvironment by utilizing a comprehensive approach that included both the microbiota activity and community structure andfig.

the mucus barrier represents a significant component of epithelial defense mechanisms in the colon wherein it functionally provides a physiochemical barrier protecting the epithelial cell surface from the microbiota and luminal contents .

finally evidence of increased integrity of the epithelial barrier in bean-fed mice was apparent based on increased proximal colon epithelial cell proliferative index and increased proximal and distal colon crypt length a-c. interestingly higher villus heightcrypt depth i.e.

muc1 is a critical epithelial membrane-bound or transmembrane mucin that functions to protect the epithelial barrier in part through signaling mechanisms that is acutely up-regulated in response to infections induced by a range of pathogens thereby providing a critical early epithelial barrier defense mechanism .

6. effect of bean diets on colon crypt length a epithelial cell proliferation index b representative colon cross-section images c colon mrna expression of tight junction components d and serum endotoxin levels e. values are means-s.e.m.

paraffin embedded proximal and distal colon cross-sections 5 mm were stained with hematoxylin and eosin he sigma-aldrich st. louis mo usa and used to assess colon health and barrier function parameters.

thus it may be of no surprise that the evidence demonstrating an effect of common beans on the human colonic microenvironment are limited and inconsistent including their effects or lack thereof on altering the structure of the human fecal microbiota community or human microbiota activity as demonstrated through in vitro fecal fermentation experiments where bean or indigestible bean fractions stimulate the production of different scfas .in order to increase the body of evidence supporting a gut healthpromoting effect of common beans and other pulses comprehensive studies that assess the impact of beans within the colonic microen- vironment that include the i microbiota community structure and activity ii mucus barrier integrity and defense mechanisms and iii epithelial barrier structure function and permeability are needed.

in the assessment of components contributing to the integrity of the mucus layer which provides a physiochemical barrier protecting the epithelial cell surface  the number of mucus-secreting goblet cells per crypt was counted in both the proximal and distal regions of the colon.

