other metabolites modulate plant functions including closure of stomates by the volatile butanediol a process contributing to drought protection.also iron in the rhizosphere is routed to the bacteria and plant but can be restricted from pathogenic microbes through microbial secretion of highly effective metal- chelating siderophores.

the plant microbiome influences plant health through a variety of mechanisms that provide protection against biotic and abiotic stress.

another mechanism associated with zno np treatments that increase plant p involves stimulation of phosphatase activity in microbes through zn release from dissolution of the nps the resulting zn phosphate acting as a source of p.as these formulations are developed model systems for studying rhizosphere processes are required to assess the interplay between the root beneficial microbes and external agents such as nps as illustrated in .figure 1. nps arriving at the microbially colonized root may directly adsorb toenter the root 1 and bacteria 2. np-microbe interactions alter colonization metabolite production biofilm formation and architecture 3. np-root interactions influence root metabolite production and exudation 4. in turn np remodeling and biocoating may result potentially altering np bioactivity 5 6. not depicted endophytic microbes within the root tissues np-released ions and components from soil pore waters that will influence np fate and bioavailability.hydroponic growth of plants affords a detailed focus on the np-plant interactions revealing the uptake and translocation of nps for instance cuo nps travel through roots into foliar tissues and return to the roots.thus hydroponic systems provide key insights in terms of np fate and translocation and plant cell responses under model conditions.

in addition the entrapment of nps into the biofilm cells and on plant root surfaces including root hairs and exudate could be part of the mechanisms involved in cross-kingdom transfer of nps as entry points into the food chain.the rhizosphere contains many organisms that graze on plant roots so that they would ingest the nps.

depending on the plant species developmental stage and environmental conditions plants may release as high as 40 ofthe total carbon fixed through photosynthesis in root exudates.the actual input of c into the soil as exudates isuncertain but this enrichment of the organic content of the rhizosphere establishes a microcosm with composition andantimicrobials that aid in protection against pathogens.

this feedback loop between bacteria and plant is mutually beneficial.

thus the multitude of external factors that directly influence one will likely through indirect pathways influence the other.it is becoming increasingly recognized that maintaining andeven augmenting the plant microbiome will be necessary for sustainable agricultural output to keep pace with growing demand.

for instance applications offunctions that are influenced by the plant.

biofilm growth confers resistance to many environmental challenges such as antibiotics.it also provides the microbes direct access to the rhizoexudates and in return bacterial metabolites are concentrated in the root zone intensifying their influence on the plant or other rhizosphere organisms.

thus studies under conditions of hydroponic plant growth or with planktonic cellsdo not duplicate the environment of the rhizosphere as established in agricultural soils.to study the influence of root exudates on soil microbial communities root-models have been developed to focus on the biofilm lifestyle of rhizosphere microbes.

however to study the root- colonizing microbe as a biofilm without influence from active plant metabolism a model system such as a hemodialysis hollow fiber membrane hfm can be used to deliver isolated root exudates or are either through the lumen or externally.

isolates of bacillus subtilis are strong biofilm formers and alsohave biocontrol activity for the plant.

the endophyte isolate bs309 d also forms biofilms on the surface of the germinating root the radicle e as well as root hairs f. both microbes are investigated here for colonization potential of the proposed root mimetic in order to understand responses in the biofilm to artificial root exudate are composition as well as abiotic stress of nps without contributions from active plant metabolism.

indeed part of the benefit of the hfm root- mimetic is that the same abiotic surface is presented to all bacteria under investigation and the role of the plant host is restricted to selected are compositions.hfm and biofilm formation.

eps production by root-colonizing bacteria may benefit the host plant as the biofilm forms a matrix covering root cells that may retain water chelate micronutrients and protect against pathogens.the pco6 eps composition is unknown but likely includes alginate.

