taken together our data show that reg3g-associated lactobacillus may enlarge mhcii  f480 macrophage pools not only in the lp but also in the pp and spleen.stat3 is involved in lactobacillus nk318.1-mediated accumulation of macrophagesto found a mechanism for how lactobacillus causes increased macrophages we first compared the gene expression profiles in the payer's patch aggregated lymphoid nodules in gut lp in gf micefigure 3  stat3 is activated in the gut immune tissues of lactobacillus nk318.1-colonized gf mice.

other lactobacillus such as l. reuteri lactobacillus gasseri lactobacillus animalis lactobacillus rham- nosus and lactobacillus plantarum did not significantly change and were even decreased in hureg3gtgiec mice figure s4c insupplementary material.

however it is unclear how gut maintains gut macrophages in anti-inflammatory situation andor how to cause accumula- tion of these macrophages in gut tissues.the mounting evidence indicates importance of gut microbiotaimmune cell interactions in immune homeostasis.

these results suggest that reg3g overexpression in gut epithelial cells may affect the composition of gut microbiota.alterations of gut microbiota may affect the composition of gut immune cells and immune cell subsets  -.

thus reg3g-associated lactobacillus-induced anti-inflammatory macrophages in gut tissues may play a role in adipose tissue homeostasis.keywords reg3g macrophage stat3 lactobacillus gut microbiotaintroductionthe alteration of gut homeostasis is often associated with the onset of metabolic diseases such as obe- sity -.

notablythis strain of lactobacillus did not affect immune-associated sign- aling pathways in gut epithelial cells  indicating that lactobacillus nk318.1-mediated accumulation of macrophages were not through gut epithelial cells.

all of these suggest that lactobacillus nk318.1 may be a bacterium which may enlarge gut anti-inflammatory macrophage pools.to determine whether anti-inflammatory macrophages are really related to reg3g-associated lactobacillus nk318.1 we next colonized gf mice with lactobacillus nk318.1.

one lactobacillus strain named as lactobacillus nk318.1 which is close to lactobacillus taiwanesis isolate figures s4ab in supplementary materialfigure 2  reg3g-associated lactobacillus induces accumulation of macrophages in germ-free gf mice.

a circos analyses of gene expression in the payer's patch of gf mice with l.nk.1 or without lactobacillus nk318.1 l.nc colonization pooled samples n  6. see also microarray geo accession number gse98819 b enriched kegg pathways of differentially expressed genes in the payer's patch of gf mice with l.nk.1 or without lactobacillus nk318.1 l. nc colonization pooled samples n  6. c enriched kegg pathways of differentially expressed genes in the ileum epithelial cells of gf mice with l.nk.1or without lactobacillus nk318.1 l. nc colonization pooled samples n  6. d immunoblotting of phosphor-stat3 in the ileum lamina propria tissues of gf mice with gfl.nk1 or without gfnc lactobacillus nk318.1 colonization.

thus it is possible that the gut anti-inflammatory macrophages in gut tissues may be induced by gut microbiota andor their metabolitics.

by using human reg3gtransgenic hureg3gtgiec mice mice we identify one strain of bacteria named as lactobacillus nk318.1 which may directly modulate the differentiation of gut macrophages and enlarge gutmacrophage pools not only in gut tissues but also in spleen and adipose tissues.

gut reg3g-associated lactobacillus may have capacities to impede the onset of obesity through increased gut anti-inflammatory macrophages.materials and methods reagentsanti-mouse phosphor-stat3 ep2147y abcam phosphor- nf-kb pp65 sc-52401 santa phosphor-jnk pjnk9h8 phosphor-erk perk197g2 stat3 124h6 cell signaling nf-kbp65 sc8008 santa jnk sc erk137f5 and b-actin sc-47778 santa were purchased.

thus some gut lactobacillus strains may be critical in maintaining homeostasis of gut macrophages.

the anti-inflammatory macrophages induced by gut lactobacillus nk318.1 in gut lp may migrate into adipose tissues.

lactobacillus nk318.1 but not lactobacillus nk318.2 could cause accumulation of mhciif480 macrophages in the gut lp pp and also spleen of gf mice .

