observed that the administration formula containing l. reuteri dsm17938 did not affect the microbiota of vaginally delivered infants but promoted fast recovery from gut dysbiosis induced by c-section delivery .table 3  diseases associated with gut microbiota alterations in early life.diseasecountryage of diagnosed disease yearseffective ncontrol groupearly bacterial diversityearly gut microbiota dataage of microbiome analysismethodreferenceallergysweden5 yearsn  13 n  25nd prevalence of lactobacilli group i l. rhamnosus l. caseiand l. paracasei at the first week prevalence of bifidobacterium adolescents at the first week.

the pioneering bacterial communities that colonize the intestine originate primarily from the maternal vaginal and fecal microbiota in the case of vaginal delivery and from the mother's skin microbiota in the case of c-section delivery.

accordingly decreasing the number ofunnecessary c-section surgeries could eventually attenuate the burden of these diseases.why does c-section favor thedevelopment of metabolic diseases and chronic immune disorders during infancyc-section alters the postnatal establishment of gut microbiota in the newbornc-section influences the establishment of gut microbiota in the newborns thus affecting their exposure to bacterial antigens.

it is possible that a more diverse gut microbiota is more efficient in improving the maturation of the immune system and reducing the risk of chronic immune disorders .a longitudinal study analyzing the gut microbiota of infants from birth to 7 years of age showed that those who became over- weight at 7 years harbored significantly fewer bifidobacterium sp.

more longitudinal studies evaluating the development of the early gut microbiota and its impact on the development of obesity t1d and food allergy are necessary to confirm whether alterations in the microbiota's composition andor a delay in the colonization process precedes the development of these diseases.postnatal gut dysbiosis affects the maturation of the infant's mucosal immune systemdecreased levels of intestinal bacteroides spp.

furthermore as breastfeeding also plays a key role in the establishment of the early gut microbiota following birth the following strategies should also be considered adequate support by trained midwifeslactation experts public health campaigns supportingencouraging breast- feeding restriction on formula hand-out at maternities and the fact that infants stay in their mother's hospital room overnight rather than in a separate nursery.the negative impacts of c-section on later health may be due to the delay in the postnatal establishment of the gut microbiota and subsequent alterations to the maturation of the mucosal immune system.

combinations of the following key words were used  cesarean section c-section vaginal delivery  latin america south america infant health type-1 diabetes celiac disease allergic diseases asthma obesity meta- bolic diseases type-2 diabetes chronic immune disordersmucosal immune system bacterial gut colonization early gut colonization vaginal seeding prebiotics probiotics microbiome andor microbiota.

j pediatr gastroenterol nutr 1999 2819-25. dosalminen s. influence of mode of delivery on gut microbiota composition in seven year old children.

infant fecal microbiota in both delivery groups did not resemble maternal rectal or vaginal microbiota.

the diversity of the infant gut microbiota increases gradually when solid foods are introduced eventually reaching a stable adult-like microbiota at 2-3 years of age .

although the link between these diseases and delivery mode remains controversial recent studies indicate that the establishment of the gut microbiota is delayed in infants born by c-section during the postnatal period i.e.

interestingly these effects were more pronounced if this alteration occurred prior to weaning suggesting the presence of a critical period during which an altered gut microbiota can impact the host's health .it is generally accepted that the fetus grows and develops in a sterile environment within the uterus and that its passage through the birth canal during delivery is the baby's first exposure to microorganisms.

various factors influence the gut's coloni- zation such as the use of and type of formula as well as genetic environmental and lifestyle factors -.c-section alters bacterial colonization due to the fact that the fetus has no direct contact with the maternal vaginalfecal microbiota during delivery and as antimicrobials are frequently administered during surgery .

on the contrary for infants born by c-section delivery the absence or low abundance of these microorganisms during this impor- tant physiological window of development appears to result in disturbances of immune homeostasis and a higher risk of devel- oping metabolic and immune disorders later in life.interventions that may improve gut colonization in infants born by c-sectionwith the aim of introducing the appropriate maternal microbiota to an infant delivered via c-section and to decrease the risk of immune and metabolic disorders dominguez-bello et al.

accordingly the infant gut microbiota may be a potential target for preventing or attenuating the disorders associated with c-section delivery.

