The current study demonstrated this BA profile change is evident even at the duodenal level resulting in a higher secondary BA and con- jugated secondary BA profile in actively drinking cirrhotic patients.

The groups were compared regarding i inflammationintestinal barrier systemic tumor necrosis factor levels intestinal inflamma- tory cytokine duodenum ileum sigmoid and ileal antimicrobial peptide expression ii microbiota composition 16SrRNA sequencing of duodenal ileal and colonic mucosal and fecal microbiota andiii microbial functionality duodenal fluid and fecal bile acid BA profile conjugation and dehydroxy- lation status intestinal BA transporter ASBT FXR FGF-19 SHP expression and stool metabolo- mics using gas chromatographymass spectrometry.Results Alc patients demonstrated a significant duodenal ileal and colonic mucosal and fecal dys- biosis compared to NAlc and controls with lower autochthonous bacterial taxa.

Alc patients had higher endotoxemia and systemic inflammation Table 1.Microbiota Changes in the TI Colon and Duodenum Were Widespread in Active DrinkersOn UNIFRAC analysis stool microbiota composition was significantly different between Alc and controls p  1.0e-02 and Alc and NAlc p  0.02 with a trend toward control and NAlc differences p  0.06.

The conjugated primary BAswere higher in Alc patients regardless of the glycine me- dian glycine-conjugated primary BAs control 0.12 NAlc 0.30 Alc 2.20 p  0.02 and taurine median taurine-con- jugated primary BAs control 0.05 NAlc 0.08 Alc 1.53 p  0.02 conjugation.

BA profile was performed using liquid chroma- tography LCMS and resulted in total BA conjugated moieties secondary and primary BAs and their ratio Kakiyama et al.

Together these BA-responsive receptors mediate the enterohepatic BA cycle by linking hepatic BA synthesis with intestinal absorption of BAs Ridlon et al.

Prior smaller studies have shown a higher secondary BA profile in the stool of actively drinking noncir- rhotic and cirrhotic patients and in animal models which was also reflected in a higher serum BA profile of conjugated secondary BAs in this population Axelson et al.

It is intriguing that this increased BA synthesis occurs despite the high quantities of BA already present in the lower intes- tine in these patients.

Of the 3 tissues sampled the duodenum is used to receiving large quantities of BAs physiologically is not generally associated with enterohepatic BA signaling and generally has lower bacterial content even in cirrhosis which would explain the lack of inflammatory and BA receptor changes.

The higher expression of BA recep- tors is likely related to the larger BA load flowing from the duodenum converted to secondary BAs due to bacterial overgrowth.

