how prominent is the influence of individual gut bacteria microbiomes on drug efficacy as stated in the previous editorial is the microbiome the fifth horseman of the apocalypse in drug discoveryif so the complexity of globaldrug development becomes enormous.clearly the biomedical research community is in tune with this concern and studies are emerging that give more credence to the fifth horseman scenario.

this is a key finding in that microbiota alsoregulate the drug efficacy abrogation of anticancer effects andthe mediation of toxicity of oxaliplatin.considering the role of the gba in neuroscience specifically the role of microbiota on the maturation of microglia in the cns and on neutrophil migration in inflammatory responses the implications are broad.in the previous editorial on this topic i posed the question could the microbiome be the fifth horseman of the apocalypse in drug discovery or is its role of little concern data is emerging that does strongly suggest that the microbiome is the fifth horseman of the apocalypse in drug discovery and the implications of this will require significanteffort across disciplines to rectify and move forward into translation.

the oncology field has embraced the fifth horseman and is making great strides and new data shows how the fifth horseman can modulate pain.

emerging data strengthens the argument that the microbiome isthe fifth horseman of the drug discovery apocalypsen a recent editoriali discussed a report in science that described the influence of individual vaginal microbiomes on drug efficacy and hiv acquisitionand the implications of these findings on the gut-brain axis gbaas well as graver concerns for drug discovery in general.

a recent review details gut microbiota can modulate host response to chemotherapeutic drugs in terms of drug efficacy abrogation of anticancer effects and the mediation of toxicity.in the oncology setting both human and animal data now support a defined role and intimate linkage of gut bacteria and the pharmacological effects of diverse chemotherapeutic agents such as 5-fluorouracil oxaliplatin cyclophosphamide gemcitabine as well as the hot immunotherapies anti-pd-l1 and anti-clta-4 antibodies.

gut bacteria modulate these agents through the timer mechanistic framework translocation immunomodulation metabolism enzymatic degradation and reduced diversityand ecological variation.thus in oncology strategies are in place to leverage and target microbiota to improve chemo- therapeutic efficacy while simultaneously reducing toxicity.are there examples relevant to neuroscience yes.

at acs chemical neuroscience i welcome letters articles reviews perspectives and viewpoints on these topics and i am eager to see more linkages of microbiota and the gba to the efficacymetabolism of cns agents.craig w. lindsley editor-in-chiefauthor informationorcidcraig w. lindsley notesviews expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessarily the views of the acs.referencesconrad j. a. and lindsley c. w. 2017 is the microbiome the fifth horseman of the apocalypse in drug discovery implications for the gut-brain axis.

drug discovery 12 569.alexander j. l. wilson i. d. teare j. marchesi j. r. nicholson j. k. and kinross j. m. 2017 gut microbiota modulation of efficacy and toxicity.

advances in dmpk and toxicology science have largely ablated the first three horsemen of the drug discovery apocalypse bioavailability in man metabolism in man and toxicology in man but the fourth efficacy in man still persists as a major reason for drug failure.

a recent nature neuroscience report discusses how gut microbiota is critical for the induction of chemotherapy-induced pain.as reported by shen and co-workersgut microbiota promotes the development of chemotherapy-induced mechanical hyper- algesia a dose-limiting condition in 30 of cancer patients.

8 1430.klatt n. r. cheu r. birse k. zevin a. s. perner m. noelromas l. grobler a. westmacott g. xie i. y. butler j. mansoor l. mckinnon l. r. passmore j. s. karim q. a. karim s.s. a. and burgener a. d. 2017 vaginal bacteria modify hiv tenofovir microbiocide efficacy in african women.

2017 gut microbiota nitric oxide and microglia as prerequisites for neurodegenerative disorders.

2017 gut microbiota is critical for the induction of chemotherapy-induced pain.

