Adonis and ANOSIM were used to assess the statistical differences among the 4 intestinal tracts of the healthy turkeys and among the 3 jejunum groups corresponding to different health status of turkeys.RESULTSTo assess composition of intestinal turkeys' micro- biota in healthy and HEV-infected birds we analyzed 3 groups of animals each group comprised of 4 ani- mals healthy group A HE affected group B and HEV-positive but without clinical signs group C.We investigated on 1 the composition of intestinal microbiota in 4 healthy turkeys group A collecting a total 16 samples from the fourth intestinal tract 4 duo- denum 4 jejunum 4 ileum and 4 ceca samples.

Unweighted UniFrac analysis among the 3 health status of animals 4 healthy turkeys group A 4 HEV-affected turkey group B and 4 turkeys positive for HEV but without clinical signs group C.faeces after Marek virus infection Perumbakkam et al.

In this study we considered 3 groups of turkeys to achieve 2 purposes 1 A preliminary in- vestigation on the microbiota content in the 4 parts of healthy turkey's intestine group A namely duo- denum jejunum ileum and ceca was done 2 an in- vestigation on the relationship between natural infec- tions with TAdV-3 and the intestinal microbiota in the jejunum where HE mostly develops comparing group A with animals with molecular positivity for the virus and with clinical signs of HE group B and an- imals with molecular positivity for the virus but with- out clinical signs group C. Massive sequencing of thehypervariable V1-V2 regions of 16S rRNA gene and QIIME 1.9.1 software analysis was performed and op- eration taxonomic units OTUs were classified into 4 abundant phyla Actinobacteria Bacteroidetes Firmi- cutes and Proteobacteria.

All the samples were collected from prepuberal females 80 d of age.The microbiota from intestinal tracts was determined from 3 groups of turkeys including healthy turkeys group A HE-affected turkeys group B and turkeys positive for HEV but without clinical signs group C. Four clinically healthy turkeys were sorted out during routine slaughtering procedures group A. Pathologi- cal analysis of the gastroenteric tract evidenced no sign of gross pathological lesions related to enteritis.

Then 2 we compared the 4 jejunum samples of group A with 8 jejunum samples of turkeys belonging to 2 different group depending on the health status 4 HE-affected turkeys group B and 4 HEV-positive turkeys without clinical signs group C.Group A Intestinal Microbiota of Healthy TurkeysA total of 3400569 reads were obtained and divided in 654 OTUs.

In the natural infec- tions of HEV the main bacterial families were Bac- teroidaceae Bacteroidetes and Peptostreptococcaceae Firmicutes uniquely detected in group B and C. Also Clostridiaceae Firmicutes was detected uniquely in group B.Key words Gut microbiota hemorrhagic enteritis turkey 16S2017 Poultry Science 963550-3558 INTRODUCTIONThe gastrointestinal tract is colonized by beneficial bacteria that are essential for promoting normal intesti- nal development physiology and digestion establish- ing meanwhile a mutualistic relationship with the host Nicholson et al.

Values of Observed species and Shannon index in dif- ferent tract of the intestine in healthy turkeys.community was collected from healthy turkeys group A HE-affected turkeys group B and turkeys positive for HEV but without clinical signs group C. The most striking difference was the evident decrease of the Lac- tobacillaceae in HE-affected animals 65.16 as com- pared to the 86.47 of the healthy animals.

We obtained rarefaction curves with a depth of 93300 and the observed species values were 200.5 in group A 202.5 in group B 165 in group C Table .

Healthy turkeys group A HEV-affected turkeys group B and turkeys positive for HEV but without clinical signs group C. At family level Other means that level that have a percentage too low for assigning the taxonomy.

Collected samples were snap frozen in liquid nitrogen.A second set of samples group B was collected from a group of 4 turkeys with evident acute clinical signs of HE.

