However in an ipITT test treatment with metformin  HCE led to significant inhibition of the glucose level at 60 and 90 min Figure A suggesting improvement of insulin resistance while in the OGTT test treatment with metformin  HCE significantly reduced the glucose level at 0 90 120 min Figure C. Treatment with both metformin and metformin  HCE significantly reduced the fasting blood glucose and serum insulin levels Figure S1BC as well as Homeostatic Model Assessment for Insulin Resistance HOMA-IR Figure S1D baseline corrected ipITT glucose area under the curve AUC Figure B and baseline corrected OGTT glucose AUC Figure D. Furthermore baseline corrected ipITT glucose AUC in the metformin  HCE group was found to be significantly lower than that in metformin group.

A synthetic scheme presents the experimental design C The identification of the main compounds of HCE and determination of their concentrations were performed by comparison of their retention time and peak heights with those of the standards.Determination of Total Phenolic and Flavonoid Contents of HCETotal phenolic content of HCE was determined according to the Folin-Ciocalteu method  using gallic acid as a standard.

The metformin group was administered orally with metformin 100 mgkgday for 12 weeks while the metformin  HCE group was treated orally with a combination of metformin 100 mgkgday and HCE 200 mgkgday for 12 weeks.

Further analyses have revealed that HCE contains36.3 mgg of quercitrin 4.5 mgg of quercetin and 9.9 mgg isoquercitrin Figure C.Amelioration of Insulin and Glucose-Related ParametersExposure of OLEFT rats to either metformin alone or metformin  HCE did not produce any noticeable effect on the body weight gain Figure S1A.

However co-exposure of metformin-treated rats to HCE resulted in a significant increase in the serum HDL level and significant reductions in the serum TG and TC levels as well as TGHDL ratio suggesting that the beneficial effects of metformin on serum lipid parameters are potentiated by HCE.

Despite a moderate difference in the entire gut microbial profile was seen between the metformin and metformin  HCE group detailed gut bacterial data revealed that in OLETF rats metformin  HCE treatment more markedly suppressed the Gram-negative bacteria compared to the treatment with metformin alone.

In our study HCE markedly facilitated the metformin-mediated activation of AMPK suggesting the beneficial impact of HCE on metformin in maintaining glucose and lipid homeostasis.Flavonoids a diverse group of natural polyphenol compounds are well known for their beneficial effects on health.

The current study examined the synergistic anti-diabetic effect of Houttuynia cordata extraction HCE and metformin combination in Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty OLETF rats.

Combining HCE  metformin resulted in significantly ameliorated glucose tolerance oral glucose tolerance test OGTT--the same as metformin alone.

Particularly results of the insulin tolerance test ITT showed that combining HCE  metformin dramatically improved insulin sensitivity as compared to metformin treatment alone.

