openreceived 8 may 2017accepted 5 september 2017 published xx xx xxxxa longitudinal analysis of the vaginal microbiota and vaginal immune mediators in women from sub-saharan africavicky jespers1 jordan kyongo2 sarah joseph3 liselotte hardy1 piet cools4 tania crucitti5 mary mwaura6 gilles ndayisaba7 sinead delany-moretlwe8 jozefien buyze9guido vanham2  janneke h. h. m. van de wijgert 10in cross-sectional studies increased vaginal bacterial diversity has been associated with vaginal inflammation which can be detrimental for health.

further mixed effects linear regression models with each immune mediator as the outcome individual women as random effects and presence and phase of the menstrual cycle as fixed effects were fitted with the following additional fixed effects added in separate models vaginal ph category 4.0 4.0-4.5 4.5 presence of abnormal vaginal discharge cervical mucus a cervical epithelial finding or vaginal psa and recent vaginal cleansing.

this is the first longitudinal study to describe the composition of the vmb and vaginal immune mediators in quantitative terms over time as well as any associations between them whilst controlling for menstrual cycle and other factors known to be associated with changes in the vaginal micro-environment.resultsthe cross-sectional characteristics of all 430 women enrolled in the vaginal biomarkers study including the com- position of the vmb have been previously described.

while anaerobic vaginal dys- biosis or bv is by far the most common vaginal dysbiosis high abundance of e. coli s. agalactiae and other pathobionts as a distinct inflammatory vaginal dysbiosis deserves further study.

further mixed effects linear regression models for each marker as outcome controlled for presence and phase of the menstrual cycle were fitted separately for the following covariates vaginal ph category 4.0 4.0-4.5 4.5 presence of clinician-observed abnormal vaginal discharge cervical mucus a cervical epithelial finding abrasion laceration ecchymosis petechiae erythema or ulcer vaginal cleansing and psa.

we also considered a 'triple taxa qpcr vaginal health score' based on the concentrations of three key vmb bacteria log10 lactobacillus genus-log10 g. vaginalis  a. vaginae as the outcome because this score was shown to be the best indicator of vaginal health in the vaginal biomarkers study.data availability.

longitudinal analysis of the vaginal microflora in pregnancy suggests that l. crispatus promotes the stability of the normal vaginal microflora and that l. gasseri andor l. iners are more conducive to the occurrence of abnormal vaginal microflora.

this longitudinal study confirms the inflammatory nature of vaginal dysbiosis and its association with recent vaginal sex and progestin-injectable use.

a potential role for proinflammatory mediators and ip-10 in combination with the vaginal-health-score as predictive biomarkers for vaginal dysbiosis merits further investigation.the vaginal mucosal surface is colonised by a variety of bacterial species and the composition which has impli- cations for reproductive health is influenced by both endogenous and exogenous factors reviewed in.

sub-saharan african women may therefore be less protected from vaginal dysbiosis even when they have a lactobacilli-dominated vmb.information on fluctuations in the vmb over time is limited but studieshave shown the variation within an individual over time is more pronounced than the variation between individuals and that such changes are influenced by the menstrual cycle and can occur rapidly.we conducted a longitudinal cohort study the vaginal biomarkers study in 430 women at three sites in kenya rwanda and south africa.

the primary objective of this sub-study was to describe the vaginal bacterial species and concentrations of vaginal immune mediators in these cohorts over time.

the detection of prostate-specific antigen psa in the vagina as a marker of vaginal sex in the last 24-48 hoursand self-reported vaginal cleansing in the evening or morning just prior to the study visit were both common 25-57 and 28-53 at different visits respectively.

each model had one such vmb bacteria concentration as the outcome individual women as random effects and presence or absence of a menstrual cycle menstrual cycle phase follicular or luteal phase see methods presence of vaginal psa and recent vaginal cleansing as fixed effects.

visits with psa detected had significantly higher mean concentrations of il-6 il-12p70 and cxc chemokines interferon ifn-g-inducible protein ip-10 visits with a higher vaginal ph had a higher mean concentration of il-1ra and a lower mean concentration of secretory leucocyte peptidase inhibitor slpi visits with abnormal vaginal discharge had lower mean concentrations of il-1a il-1ra gm-csf and elafin visits with cervical mucus had a lower mean concentration of elafin and visits with cervical epithelial findings had a lower mean concentration of granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor gm-csf table .

this vaginal health score was calculated as log10 geqml lactobacillus genus-log10 geqml g. vaginalis  a. vaginae and a higher score therefore sug- gests better vaginal health.

