acg case reports journalcase report  colonhair growth in two alopecia patients after fecal microbiota transplantdionne rebello md1 elaina wang bs1 eugene yen md3 peter a. lio md4 and colleen r. kelly md facg121alpert medical school brown university providence ri2division of gastroenterology rhode island hospital providence ri 3university of chicago pritzker school of medicine chicago il 4northwestern university feinberg school of medicine chicago ilabstractclostridium difficile infections can be life-threatening but are increasingly being treated successfully with fecal microbiota transplantation fmt.

gut microbiota may have immunomo- dulatory effects in autoimmune conditions such as alopecia areata and further study may elucidate disease mechanisms and lead to alternative treatment options for these patients for whom treatment options are cur- rently limited.introductionalopecia areata aa is an autoimmune inflammatory condition of the hair follicle.

prior to fmt he was persistently noted to have stage s4b alopecia 95-99 hair loss despite intralesional injections but he improved at least 2 grades to stage s2 25-49 hair loss after fmt  .

it is classified as patchy totalis and universalis depending on the degree of hair loss.fecal microbiota transplant fmt is increasingly being used to treat patients with clostridium difficile infection cdi.

notably while the steroid injections had only been adminis- tered to his scalp after fmt he has had regrowth of hair in other areas of his body as well.discussionthis report highlights 2 patients with coexisting aa and recurrent cdi who experienced hair regrowth after fmt.

a the patient's scalp when he first started losing his hair at age 16. the patient's scalp b a few months and c 1.5 years after fmt.mechanism of ibd remains unclear there is evidence sug- gesting that an inappropriate immune response to gut microbiota plays a role in the pathogenesis.published case reports have suggested improvement in multiple sclerosis parkinson's disease and idiopathic thrombocytopenic pur- pura after fmt.we present 2 case reports where notable improvement in aa was observed after fmt was performed for recurrent cdi.

we report two patients with alopecia universalis who developed subsequent hair regrowth after fmt for treatment of recurrent c. difficile infections.

gut microbiota have recently emerged as potential immunomodulators with the capacity to elicit physiologic or pathologic responses in the host.case 1a 38-year-old man with alopecia universalis diagnosed 10 years previously presented with bloody diarrhea and ab- dominal pain.

further study of gut microbiota in patients with autoimmune alopecia may elucidate disease mechanisms and provide evi- dence to support clinical trials of fmt in this population for whom treatment options are currently limited.disclosuresauthor contributions all authors contributed equally to manuscript creation.

his alopecia had previously been refractory to steroid injections and he was on no other therapies for alopecia at that time.

at follow-up 8 weeks later he reported new hair growth on his head face and arms .

three years later he continues to have patchy hair growth on his arms scalp and face which he shaves regularly.case 2a 20-year-old man with severe ileocolic crohn's disease was treated with fmt after requiring 5 recurrent courses of antibiotics for cdi.

after fmt the patient had significant improvement in his hair loss.

to view a copy of this license visit acg case reports journal  volume 4acgcasereports.gi.org 1figure 1. hair regrowth on a 38-year-old patient's a face and b scalp 8 weeks after fmt.done after fmt without any further treatment.

though still poorly under- stood fmt is emerging as an effective therapy for recurrent cdi and it is being investigated as a treatment option for other inflammatory conditions.aa is one of the most common autoimmune disorders affect- ing about 4.5 million people in the united states.onset typi- cally occurs in younger patients with 66 presenting before age 30 and only 20 presenting after age 40. it is thought to be a t-cell-mediated autoimmune disease that attacks the hair follicle and both the innate and adaptive immune systemshave been implicated in the pathogenesis.

