our finding supports the rationale for improved hygiene in nursing home residents to reduce the risk of infection and transmission of multidrug-resistant organisms such as vancomyin-resistant enterococci or resistant gnr.we also found a pattern of decreased abundance of specific proteobacteria in nursing home participants at the anterior nares and both skin sites compared with the community participants.

a observed diversity index b shannon diversity index.community structures between nursing home and community participants by body site showed that samples of nursing home participants clustered with overlap to the community participants .

we also found that the femoral skin microbiota had evidence of stool contamination in the nursing home residents provid- ing a rationale for improved skin hygiene.

however an anosim analysis of similarity test of significance applied to the measurements of ordination distances from jensen-shannon divergence suggested that the clusters that were observed for nursing home and community-based study populations had significant differences at three body sites nasal r  0.1463 p  0.04 throat r  0.3401 p  0.003 and femoral skin r  0.1815 p 0.026. although no significant difference was detected at the subclavian skin r  0.04798 p  0.297 this might have been due to the wider spread of data points within the cb compared to the nh samples.

error bars for each taxa show standard errors calculated across all of the patients and all of the samples for nose a throat b subclavian skin c and femoral skin d.coagulase-negative staphylococcus and finegoldia were more abundant in nursing home participants as were proteus e. coli and enterococci.

we also found that the femoral skin microbiota had evidence of stool contamination in the nursing home residents providing a rationale for improved skin hygiene.

we found no differences in diversity at the anterior nares or skin sites with the exception of the femoral skin which was more diverse in the nursing homefig 4 differentially abundant bacteria in 4 body sites in older adults in nursing homes n  16 relative to abundance levels in older adults in the community n  51 calculated using generalized linear models of abundance based on a negative binomial distribution .

on the skin above the subclavian vein numerous otus predominantly proteobacteria were decreased in nursing home participants compared to community participants.

it is possible that these changes allow colonization with proteobacteriamore readily during periods of acute illness.the femoral skin was also more frequently culture positive for enterobacteriaceae and p. aeruginosa in nursing home participants than in the community participants.

the throat microbiota was less diverse in nursing home participants streptococci were more abundant and prevotella was less abundant in nursing home participants than in community participants.

anosim test of significance results nasal r 0.1463 p  0.04 throat r  0.3401 p  0.003 subclavian skin r  0.04798 p  0.297 femoral skin r  0.1815 p  0.026.microbiome composition by body site and study population.

a nose n  15 nh n  50 cb b throat n  13 nh n  51 cb c subclavian skin n  13 nh n  47 cb d femoral skin n  16 nh n  49 cb.participants.

older adults sweat less and have less oily skin particularly in sebaceous areas such as the femoral skin.

at this point it is premature to consider whether the presence of these bacteria is beneficial how- ever a relative increase in proteobacteria was also identified in the anterior nares of young adults in basic military training who did not have a skin or soft tissue infection compared to those with skin or soft tissue infection   suggesting that this could be the case.our study has a few limitations.

participants provided noninvasive samples from the anterior nares nose posterior pharynx throat subclavian skin and femoral skin for culture and microbial profiling during a single study visit.

