there were significant increases p  0.05 in intestinal siga levels in laying hens fed the low cp  thr diet compared with the low cp diet however no significant differences were detected between the control and the low cp groups p  0.05 at wk 12.table 3. laying performances of hens among dietary treatments.1diets2itemcontrol low cp low cp  thr sem p-valueson and shannon indices were also calculated morgan and huttenhower .

the abundance of escherichiashigella decreased p  0.05 signifi- cantly in the low cp group and the low cp  thr group compared with that of the control group.3660dong et al.figure 5. bacterial community structures in the control diet 16 cp low cp diet 14 cp and low cp diet supplemented with 0.3 l-threonine at phylum level.

values are means sem n  5. those abundances below 1 were classified as others including deferribacteres fusobacteria verrucomicrobia synergistetes tm7 and lentisphaerae.discussionin the current study the low cp and the low cp  thr diets were essentially isonitrogenous as only small amounts of thr were added to the low cp diet and the analyzed cp content of the 2 diets was similar.

values were considered statisti- cally different at p  0.05.1data are means of 5 replications with 16 hens per replicate.2hens were fed a control diet 16 cp a low cp diet 14 cp or a low cp diet supplemented with 0.3 l-threonine for 12 weeks.abvalues within a row with no common superscripts differ significantly p  0.05.figure 1. effects of control 16 cp low cp 14 cp or low cp supplemented with 0.3 l-threonine diets on the concentration of secretory iga siga in the ileum of laying hens.

thus we believe that any differences observed were due to the presence of thr and not due to differences in the dietary cp levels between the low cp and low cp  thr groups.

the impaired egg production and egg mass of hens fed the low cp diet were restored by dietary thr supplementation indicating that thr might be a limiting aa in the low cp diet of laying hens during the peak production period.

both shannon and simpson indices demonstrated that the intestinal microbiota di- versity in the low cp group was significantly lower than that in controls p  0.05. noticeably the microbiota diversity in the low cp  thr group was similar to that in the control group.

in total sequences from the intestinal microbiota could be classified into 58 genera with 55 genera in controls 53 genera in low cp samples and 58 genera in low cp thr samples see supplementary table s1.

of the total number of genera identified in the intestinal micro- biota 10 abundant genera  1 of the total dna se- quences were detected in controls while 8 and 11 abun- dant genera were detected in low cp and low cp  thr samples respectively table .

consis- tent with diversity indices and pcoa clustering analy- sis of these genera highlighted the apparent differences between the low cp diet and either control or low cp thr diet.2data shown as mean with sem n  5.abvalues within a row with no common superscripts differ significantly p  0.05.the relative abundance of some opportunis- tic pathogens such as coprococcus campylobacter staphylococcus streptococcus and escherichiashigella are shown in figure .

the abundance of escherichiashigella decreased significantly in the low cp group and the low cp  thr group compared with that of the control group.

in conclusion dietary thr supplemen- tation to a low cp diet could affect intestinal health and hence productivity via regulating intestinal mucin and siga expression and microbial population of laying hens.key words threonine low crude protein mucin protein intestinal microbiota laying hens2017 poultry science 963654-3663 introductionthe excretion of n from dietary protein is mainly re- sponsible for the environmental n pollution caused by intensive livestock production morse .

.3654effects of threonine on gut function3655to our knowledge no other study investigated the ef- fects of dietary thr supplementation to a low cp diet on the intestinal mucosa barrier function or microfloratable 1. composition and nutrient level of the diets air-dried basis.ingredients1 controllow cp low cp  threoninecommunity of laying hens.

therefore a low cp  thr diet was formulated by supplementing 0.3 l-thr 98.5 purity specom biochemical co. ltd zhang jiagang china to the low cp diet at the ex- pense of inert filler.

intestinal muc2 mrna level was higher p 0.05 in hens fed the low cp  thr diet compared with the low cp diet and did not differ from that in the control group.

