although we identified differences between subgingival and intratissue communities through parallel comparison more samples including those from periodontally healthy subjects need to be studied in the future.in conclusion bacterial communities present within the gingival tissues of periodontal lesions are as complex as sub- gingival plaque communities and can form biofilm.

we now report that very com- plex bacterial communities exist and can form biofilms within gingival tissues of periodontal lesions.the presence of heterogeneous bacteria within gingival tis- sues or buccal epithelial cells has been reported for decades saglie et al.

this study aimed to characterize bacterial communities located within gingival tissues in comparison with subgingival plaque communities obtained from periodon- tal lesions.materials and methodsstudy samplesseven subjects were recruited from among adult patients with chronic periodontitis who needed surgery after undergoing scaling and root debridement at the anam hospital of korea university.

gingival tissue samples for histology were obtained from the opposite surface of the tooth from which the subgingival plaque was sampled or from the adjacent tooth and transferred into a tube containing zinc fixa- tive bd bioscience.the sections of gingival biopsies obtained from the peri- odontal lesions of 5 patients in a previous study choi et al.

significance was set at p  0.05.resultsintratissue bacterial communities were as complex as the subgingival plaque communities but had altered compositiontotal bacterial loads estimated by real- time pcr of the 16s rrna gene were lower in intratissue than those in subgin- gival plaque samples by 1 to 4 orders of magnitude fig.

to characterize microbiota within tissues of periodontal lesions and compare them with plaque microbiota gingival tissues and subgingival plaques were obtained from 7 patients with chronic periodontitis.

collagen breakdown in gingival tissues has been attributed to inflammatory cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases secreted by inflammatory cells seguier et al.

2014. changes in subgingi- val bacterial communities characterizing the transition from health to periodontitis include 1 increases in total bacterial load and richness 2 shifts from gram-positive aerobic cocci- dominated communities to predominantly strict anaerobic gram-negative and motile organism-dominated ones and 3 shifts in the core microbiome through an increase in low- abundance community members including established peri- odontal pathogens and newly identified periodontitis-associated taxa marsh 1994 abusleme et al.

2d.bacterial aggregates in the form of biofilms were observed within gingival tissuesthe distribution of the 2 highly abundant species f. nucleatum and p. gingivalis in gingival tissues was examined by in situ hybridization with specific probes.

the speciesphylotypes that are present in substantial amounts or overrepresented within gingival tis- sues may have a more important role in the pathogenesis of periodontitis.the most interesting finding in this study was the presence of biofilms within gingival tissues which was confirmed by alcian blue staining and afm.

the mean probing depth and clinical attachment level of the sampled sites were 5.3 - 0.7 mm and 6.4 - 1.0 mm respectively.preparation of bacterial dna samplesbacterial genomic dna was isolated from the subgingival plaque and gingival tissues with a commercial kit for soil bac- teria mo bio laboratories.

972 192-200c international  american associations for dental research 2017reprints and permissions doi 10.11770022034517732754abstractperiodontitis is caused by dysbiotic subgingival bacterial communities that may lead to increased bacterial invasion into gingival tissues.

however intersubject variability of intratissue communities was smaller than that of plaque communities.

in addition when compared with the plaque communities intratissue communities were characterized by decreased abundance of firmicutes and increased abundance of fusobacteria and chloroflexi.

2017. therefore the bacteria present within tissues seem to be important for the progression of periodontitis.however the characteristics of bacterial communities pres- ent within the gingival tissue of periodontal lesions have not been studied yet.

