the rn fecal transplant coordinator makes a follow- up phone call to each patient 2 days postprocedure to evaluate current bowel function and gi symptoms and to answer patient questions.data collectiondata collected for the phase 2 prospective study included patient age gender previous treatment received for cdi transplant performed by enteroscopy or colonoscopy amount of stool collected from the donor relationship of the donor to the patient living arrangement of the patient patient comorbidities the process used to mix the stool for instillation and patient pre- and posteduca- tion.

it is preferred that the donor is not the patient'sfigure 2. screening tests for fecal donor.primary caretaker and does not live in the same house- hold as the patient to decrease the chance of cross- contamination and positive donor laboratory results.in our facility the patient is given the choice of pro- viding a fecal donor or the patient may choose to use a fecal donor who serves as a universal donor for our laboratory.

2010. the patient puts on a patient gown and the clothes the patient wore into the unit are placed in a sealed bag to be taken home for laundering.based on the fecal coordinator assessment report the gastroenterologist determines the route for fecal transfu- sion either upper enteroscopy deposits the fecal donation into small bowel or via colonoscopy deposits the fecal material into the terminal ileum.

all disposable equipment including the blender and strainer is dis- carded after each procedure.postfecal transplant procedurethe postprocedure protocol focuses on five important elements routine postanesthesia recovery promotion of intestinal dwell time of transplanted material for maxi- mum effect prevention of patient exposure to c. difficile after the procedure education for patient fol- low-up care and evaluation of patient outcomes based on postprocedure symptoms and stool pattern.

fecal donors in this study included one relative who lived with the patient 2.8 15 41.7 donors who were relatives not living with the patient and 20 66 donors who were nonrelatives not living with the patient.

the major protocol components include patient refer- ral and intake fecal donor selection and testing patient preparation the procedure and post-procedure care and follow-up outcomes.

during this initial consultation the nurse educates the patient and family about contact isolation precautions and the need for terminal cleaning of the patient's home environment with hypochlorite solution before returning to it after the procedure cohen et al.

if the patient chooses to use a universal donor identified by our laboratory donor test- ing and screening occurs every 90 days which costs less for the patient.

if a patient is getting the transplanted material via colo- noscopy the patient does a bowel preparation starting at 3 p.m. the day before the procedure to clear stool from the colon before the procedure.

each patient brings an extra set of uncontaminated clothes to wear home following the fecal transplant.on the day of the procedure the patient signs the consent for fecal transplantation.

the staff patient and family mem- bers maintain contact isolation from the patient's arrival time to the time of discharge cohen et al.

the anesthesia provider determines premedication requirements for each patient based on patient comorbidities and route of fecal trans- plant delivery.

routine vital signs and patient assessment are carried out to ensure safe anesthetic recovery occurs with each patient.

after colonoscopy fecal deposits the patient lies flat for 2-3 hours and after an upper endos- copy the patient is maintained in a head of bed 45deg posture for 4 hours and npo for 3-4 hours.

when the patient is ready for dis- charge the patient puts on clean clothes.

