the majority of participants 2628 had nugent scores below the threshold of 7. moreover only five and three partici- pants at t1 and t2 sampling times respectively had a vaginal ph  4.5. the whiff-amine test percentage of positivity shifted from 96.4 at baseline t0 to 3.6 after 10 days of lactoferrin 200 mg administration t1 and to 7.1 2 weeks after stopping lactoferrin 200 mg treatment t2.in group b the lactoferrin 100 mg treatment t1reduced the nugent score to below the threshold of 7 in 25 participants 83.3 .

p  0.001. two weeks after stopping lactoferrin 100 mg administration t2 significant changes in viable cells were detected for all the microbial groups investigated except for e. coli and candida .table 2. microbial counts and significance anova of groups a and b during the intervention.microbial count log cfumlgroup a lactoferrin 200 mggroup b lactoferrin 100 mgdata are shown as mean - sd.ion torrent 16s rrna gene-based analysisfrom the vaginal swab specimens of groups a and b collected at t0 t1 and t2 sampling times pcr ampli- cons of the v3 hypervariable region of the 16s rrna gene were subjected to ion torrent.

28 1357417httpsdoi.org10.108016512235.2017.1357417research articlebacterial biota of women with bacterial vaginosis treated with lactoferrin an open prospective randomized trialalessandra pino giuliana giunta cinzia l. randazzosalvatore caruso cinzia caggiaand antonio cianciadepartment of agriculture food and environment di3a university of catania catania italy bdepartment of general surgery and medical surgical specialties gynecological clinic university of catania policlinico universitario catania italyarticle historyreceived 2 march 2017accepted 14 july 2017keywordsvaginal microbiota ion torrent 16s rdna vaginal infection lactoferrin in vivo trial lactobacillus spp.l.

reported that intravaginal administration of lactoferrin resolved asymptomatic chlamydia trachomatis in six out of seven pregnant women and resulted in normal deliveries.the aims of the present study were i to charac-terize the bacterial biota in women affected by bv andto assess the effect of two different concentrations of vaginally administered lactoferrin 100 mg and200 mg on the vaginal bacterial biota.

at the enrollment visit the participants were randomly assigned to receive the lactoferrin 200 mg vaginal tablets group a or the lactoferrin 100 mg vaginal tablets group b for 10 days.

the percentage of positivity on the whiff-amine test was characterized by a pronounced reduction from t0 tofigure 1. design of the open prospective randomized trial.table 1. clinical characteristics of groups a and b at baseline t0 on the 10th day after the start of lactoferrin supplemen- tation treatment t1 and 2 weeks after stopping lactoferrin administration post-treatment t2.nugent scoregroups detected during the whole of the study are reported in .

for both groups a and b the rarefaction curves highlighted that there was much more richness in bacterial diversity at baseline t0 than after 10 days of lactoferrin administration t1 and 2 weeks after stopping lactoferrin t2 supplementary figure s1.

while in the bv patients treated with 200 mg of lactoferrin the lactobacillus population continued to increase inhibiting the growth of pathogens in the bv patients treated with 100 mg of lactoferrin a slight decrease in lactobacilli and a con- comitant increase in gardnerella and prevotella genera were registered.

lactobacillus helveticus not previously detected in the vaginal ecosystem was the most abundant species found after lactoferrin treatment especially at 200 mg. the results clearly highlight the beneficial effects of lactoferrin as a promising therapeutic approach for bv.acknowledgementsthe authors thank ag pharma s.r.l.

interaction of lactoferrin and lipopolysaccharide effects on the anti- oxidant property of lactoferrin and the ability of lipo- polysaccharide to prime human neutrophils for enhanced superoxide formation.

lactoferrin has bacteriostatic and bactericidal properties with the ability to protect the host against infection by binding and regulating the iron needed for bacterial proliferation -.

the antimicrobial effect of lactoferrin is also due to immu- nomodulation and cytoplasmic membrane disruption of the target cell.

lactoferrin has an inhibitory effect on lipopolysaccharide-induced production of inflamma- tory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-a interleukin il-1b il-6 and il-8 messenger rna and interferes with nuclear factor-kb activation in monocytic cells .

additional functions of lactoferrin have been reported such as neutrophil and macrophage activation  regulation of specialization and function of lym- phocytes  activation of natural killer cells  control of oxidation injury  and down-modulation of ongoing immune-inflammatory responses during preterm delivery .

moreover lactoferrin exhibits a synergistic effect with immunoglobulin a lysozyme antibiotics and drugs which helps in the eradication of microorganisms .

