im- mediately after birth a total of 29 neonatal mice from six dif- ferent pregnant balbc mice were randomly divided into three groups a control group n  10 a ceftriaxone group n  8 and a vancomycin group n  11. all experimental procedures were performed in accordance with the guidelines for animal experi- ments at west china school of public health sichuan university sichuan p. r. china.antibiotic treatmentmice were treated with ceftriaxone or vancomycin aladdin bio- chemical technology shanghai p. r. china dissolved in saline at a 5-fold dosage of that for humans at 100 mgkg ceftriax- one group or 50 mgkg vancomycin group once per day for 21days.

the bac- terial concentrations of the feces and cecal contents were both significantly lower in the ceftriaxone group than in the con- trol group p  0.01 similar to the bacterial concentration of the cecal contents from the vancomycin and control groups p  0.05. however there was no significant difference in the amount of fecal bacteria between the vancomycin and control groups p  0.05. inversely the bacterial concentration of feces was significantly higher in the vancomycin group than the cef- triaxone group p  0.01 fig.

the asterisk on the bar without any other symbol represented the statistical differences between control group and vancomycin or ceftriaxone group and the asterisk with a symbol represented the statistical differences between vancomycin and ceftriaxone group.

lane 1 fecal samples of the control group lane 2 fecal samples of the vancomycin group lane 3 fecal samples of the ceftriaxone group lane 4 cecal samples of the control group lane 5 cecal samples of the vancomycin group lane 6 cecal samples of the ceftriaxone group.

cluster analysis revealed that three groups of samples from feces and cecal contents were respectively clus- tered into their own group with a similarity index of 0.62 for the control group 0.37 for the ceftriaxone group and 0.65 for the van- comycin group while the control and vancomycin groups were clustered with a similarity index of 0.50. moreover there seemedto be two clusters with similarity index of 0.30 3 and 6 of the ceftriaxone group belonged to cluster 1 while  1 and  4 of the control group and 2 and 5 of the vancomycin group belonged to cluster 2 fig.

cfb group bacteria cytophaga-flavobacterium-bacteroides unclas- sified bacteroidetes.table 2. diversity analysis of fecal and cecal bacteria based on pcr-dgge fingerprinting patterns.diversitylaneslane 1 fecal samples of the control group lane 2 fecal samples of the vancomycin group lane 3 fecal samples of the ceftriaxone group lane 4 cecal samples of the control group lane 5 cecal samples of the vancomycin group lane 6 cecal samples of the ceftriaxone group.

c.differentiation of immune organs and cd4cd25foxp3 t cellsthe thymus organ index of the vancomycin group was lower than that of the control group p  0.01. although there was no significant difference between the ceftriaxone and control groups p  0.05 the thymus organ index of the ceftriaxone group was higher than that of the vancomycin group p  0.05 fig.

the asterisk on the bar without any other symbol represented the statistical differences between control group and vancomycin or ceftriaxone group and the asterisk with a symbol represented the statistical differences between vancomycin and ceftriaxone group.

the asterisk on the bar without any other symbol represented the statistical differences between control group and vancomycin or ceftriaxone group and the asterisk with a symbol represented the statistical differences between vancomycin and ceftriaxone group.

pathogens and disease 75 2017 ftx104doi 10.1093femspdftx104advance access publication date 22 august 2017 research articleresearch article vancomycin and ceftriaxone can damage intestinal microbiota and affect the development of the intestinal tract and immune system to different degrees in neonatal miceru yue cheng ming li shan shan li miao he xiao hong yu lei shi and fang he1department of nutrition food hygiene and toxicology west china school of public health sichuan university chengdu sichuan 610041 p. r. china and 2department of nutrition west china hospital sichuan university chengdu sichuan 610041 p. r. chinacorresponding author department of nutrition food hygiene and toxicology west china school of public health sichuan university no.

balbc neonatal mice were orally administered ceftriaxone or vancomycin from postnatal day 1 to day 21 and sacrificed on day 21. the diversity and abundance of the intestinal bacteria morphological changes and barrier function of intestinal tract and the splenic cd4cd25foxp3 t cells were investigated.

furthermore the administration of ceftriaxone but not vancomycin led to a significant reduction in the abundance of splenic cd4cd25foxp3 t cells.

the potent ability of each antibiotic to affect the makeup of intestinal commensal microbiota may be a key determinant of the spectrum of antibiotics and influence the health of the host animal atleast partly.keywords dysbiosis intestinal development immune system ceftriaxone vancomycin neonatal miceintroductionit is well known that the intestinal tract is the primary site of digestion and absorption in the human body it also servesas the largest immune tissue mason et al.

mice were orally gavaged with 24-gauge feeding needles attached to a 1-ml syringe instech laboratories inc. militia hill road pa usa at 10 ml of the dilution from postnatal day 0 to 7 50 ml from postnatal day 7 to 14 and 100 ml from postnatal day 14 to 21.ceftriaxone a third-generation cephalosporin is an antibi- otic that targets most gram-negative and positive bacteria and vancomycin an antibiotic that mainly targets gram-positive bacteria and is poorly absorbed by the host intestinal tract when given orally rao et al.

black bar control group light gray bar vancomycin group dark gray bar ceftriaxone group.

