strainstable 4 numbermechanism of resistancenumberpercentage of strains n  55percentage of strains resistant to mlsb antibioticstable 5 prevalence ofgenenumberpercentage of strains n  55resistance to antibioticsdrug resistance genes in the tested strainsmls macrolides lincosamides andstreptogramins b table shows the results of pcr amplifications demonstrating the presence of genes conferring the resistance to mls antibiotics.

lugdunensis smsra1 1 mphc 2 lnua 1 ermb 2 12. s. lentuse 2 sxt 1 fox 2 msb 2msra1 2 mphc 2 lnua 2 erma 1ermb 213. s. simulanssmsra1 msrb mphc ermb vga e--erythromycin da--clindamycin te--tetracycline fox--cefoxitin cn--gentamycin cip--ciprofloxacin sxt-- trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole msb--strains resistant to macrolides and streptogramins b mlsb constitutive--strains showing constitutive type of resistance to macrolides lincosamides and streptogramins b mlsb inducible--strains showing inducible type of resistance to macrolides lincosamides and streptogramins blnua ermb ermc.

the tested strains were most frequently resistant to erythromycin and least frequently to ciprofloxacin and gentamycin.among the analyzed staphylococci 17 isolates 30.9 were susceptible to all tested antimicrobial agents 20 isolates 36.3 were resistant to one 10isolates 18.2 to 2 6 isolates 10.9 to 3 1 strain1.8 was resistant to 5 and yet another 1 strain to 6 antimicrobial agents tested in this study.the incidence of the mechanisms of resistance to macrolide lincosamide and streptogramin antibiotics is shown in table .table 2 share of individual staphylococci species in the iso- lated materialtable 3 antimicrobialantimicrobial agentnumberpercentage of resistant strains n  55resistance of the studied staphylococcus spp.

disk-diffusion tests demonstrated that 9.1 of the tested staphylo- coccus strains showed inducible mechanism of resis- tance to macrolides lincosamides and streptograminsin the case of constitutive mechanism it was 14.5 of the tested strains.

reported that 47 of s. epidermidis strains tested in their study showed constitutive mechanism while inducible one was detected in 8 of strains.

in total 55 strains belonging to the genus staphylococcus were isolated from 45 sites and 13 species of coagulase-negative staphylococci were identified.

subsequently gram- stained smears were microscopically observed and the furazolidone susceptibility test was performed in order to discriminate the staphylococcus genus from the micrococcus strains.

furazolidone-susceptible strains were classified as staphylococcus spp.

deter- mination of susceptibility of gram-positive cocci from the genus staphylocococcus 2010'' z abicka and hryniewicz .methicillin-susceptible s. aureus atcc 25923 and methicillin-resistant s. aureus mr reference strains from the collection of the jan bober centre of microbiological research and autovaccines in kra- ko'w were used as controls and the results were interpreted according to the recommendations of korld and eucast hryniewicz .determination of genes conferringthe resistance to mls group antibioticsdna extraction from pure cultures of staphylococci was performed using the genomic mini kit aa biotechnology poland following the instructions provided by the manufacturer.

a total of 55 strains of coagulase-negative staphylococcus spp.

strains table .

genes ermb msra msrb lnua erm erma erea ereb erma1 vga were present in less than half of the tested strains.

of strains with detectedmechanismresistance-determining genes no.

of strains with detected geness.

17 had 4 genes conferring the resistance to mls group of antibiotics while further 12 strains had 2 different resistance genes.

