groups a and b exhibited a significant prefer- ence for bfjs over rc with group a consuming significantly more food when compared with group b p  0.033. the differences in the energy ingested between groups a and b were due to the energy from bfjs with group b ingesting significantly less energy p  0.001.group a ingested significantly more total fat p  0.016 and sodium p  0.001 than group b and group b in turn signifi- cantly higher amounts than group c p  0.009 and p  0.002 respectively.

therefore bfjs can represent a different energy source in groups a and b growth particularly the bjf-a.group a ingested higher macronutrient amounts than group b however group c ingested the highest quantities of proteins fiber and carbohydrates table 2. in this sense the total fat ingested can be the key macronutrient that causes the highest growth and bmi of groups a and b being more accen- tuated again in group a. fat besides being the most concen- trated dietary energy source may be responsible for the over- eating of foods due to its favourable sensory properties.36 however although group a took significantly higher amountsof fat than group b the body mass of groups a and b was not significantly different even when the values for group a were higher.

levels betweengroup b and the other groups were observed p  0.003 and bacteroides-prevotella levels were significantly higher in group c compared to group b p  0.025 while mice from group a showed intermediate values.the total bacteria levels were significantly higher for group c compared to group b p  0.011 while group a showed intermediate values.the clostridium leptum subgroup and clostridium coccoides group showed less variability in groups c and b than those in group a although the median obtained in the three groups was similar.

m. muccioli a. m. neyrinck s. possemiers a. van holle p. francois w. m. de vos n. m. delzennej.

leptum 0.553 and p  0.002.discussiongrowththe growth curve from the fifth week of life until the endpoint final bmi and post-weaning growth rates observed in this study demonstrate that the mice growth in groups a and b was accelerated when compared with group c. the bfj total amount ingested by groups a and b can be related to the higher growth especially in group a. however this does not agree with the total energy ingested as groups a and c con- sumed the same kcal per day and group b consumed fewer calories table 2. it may be well understood that the energyfrom the rc would be less available than that of the bfjs due to the factors such as higher fiber contents and the different protein origin and digestibility vegetable vs. animal.

circles and asterisks represent outlier data.pounds in the rc may cause a substantial reduction in protein and amino acid digestibility42 resulting in the reduction of the protein quality ingested by group c.therefore taking into account that group c ingested higher amounts of proteins carbohydrates and fiber than groups a and b together with the fact that groups a and b ingested higher amounts of fat than group c table 2 it can be con- cluded that the weight increase found in this study can be attributed mainly to fat and this nutrient may be a program- ming factor in rapid growth.microbiotathis is the first study to our knowledge which shows gm differences from the consumption of different bfj brands.group b showed more significant changes in firmicutes and bacteroidetes than group a both with respect to groupc.

group a mice were fed baby food jar a bfj-a and rodent chow rc diet a. group b mice were fed baby food jar b bfj-b and rc diet b. group c mice were fed rc control.

the second diet group b consisted of baby food jar b bfj-b 67.5 kcal per 100 g 108 sodium mg per 100 g 3.6 proteins 7.2 carbohydrates 0.5 fibre 86 humidity 2.7 fat and a fatty acid profile 1  2.8  1.7 and rc.

the significance level was p  0.05 and the p-values between 0.05 and 0.10 were defined as statistical tendencies.resultsgrowth parameters and food intakethe weekly weight of the mice increased significantly during the intervention period in all three study groups p  0.001 and the weight gain was dependent on the diet type p  0.001. from the fifth week of life until the end of the study a greater growth was observed in groups a and b compared with group c with no difference between groups a and b fig.

values are given as mean - sem per eu for food intake and per mouse for morphometric parameters and cytokinesvalues with different superscript letters were statistically different between the groups after carrying out a one-way anova p  0.05. statistically significant differences after performing a student's t-test between a and b groups p  0.05.bmi and post-weaning growth rate of groups a and b were significantly higher than those of group c.table 2 shows the results of daily food intake of the three study groups.

the bifidobacterium genus had a statistical ten- dency to be lower in groups a and b p  0.068.in the case of the streptococcus tuf gene its presence in groups a and b was detected and no significant differences between them were found.

therefore there is a large discrepancy in the literature as to which bacterial genera and species may be associatedwith untoward effects.compared with normal weight subjects genetically obese mice gm exhibit a higher proportion of firmicutes bacteroidetes.111617 this proportion may be more efficient in harvesting energy from the diet because the number of genes dedicated to polysaccharide hydrolysis is much higher.1217 in addition the gut microbiota of obese humans behaves in the same way as that of obese mice the bacteroidetes percentage decreases while the percentage of firmicutes increases.1116 this is consistent with the decrease in the bacteroides- prevotella population shown by group b and the presence of the streptococcus genus in some mice of groups a and b andits absence in group c fig.

the presence of a. muciniphila in group c and its absence in group b is consistent with the literature as group c was the leanest and mice from group b were overweight.

mcandrew j. thompson l. fellows a. large m. speed and m. j. renfrew infant feeding survey 2010 2012.a.

d. cani j. amar m. a. iglesias m. poggi c. knaufd.

