when we evaluated differences between the groups at different taxonomic levels we found a significant increase of bifidobacteriaceae but not any other bacterial taxon in ovx pos samples .ovariectomy exacerbates lung inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness in re-challenged allergic micewe next investigated whether re-exposure of ovx allergic mice to antigen ova exacerbates lung inflammation .

we found a significant increase in total cells recovered in the balf from sham and ovx allergic mice that was exacerbated by re-exposure of ovx allergic mice to ova .

moreover the number of eosinophils in the bal from re-challenged ovx allergic mice significantly increased compared with sham allergic mice.

re-challenged ovx allergic mice exhibited significantly increased airwayhyperresponsiveness to mch compared with sham ovx allergic mice .we also determined the effect of ovariectomy on the th2 cytokine profile.

our data revealed a significant increase in il-5 levels in the bal recovered from ovx allergic mice re-exposed to antigen challenge compared with that of sham ovx allergic mice .

in contrast ifn-g and il-10 were reduced in the bal of re-challenged ovx allergic mice compared with sham ovx allergic mice .excessive mucus production is a characteristic of asthmatic airways therefore we evaluated the presence of pas-stained cells in the lungs of re-challenged mice.

as seen in  a significant increase in pas-stained cells was observed in the lungs of re-challenged ovx allergic mice compared with re-challenged sham ovx allergic mice.

the lungs of non-sensitized mice did not show pas-stained cells .preventive oral probiotic supplementation attenuates the exacerbation of lung inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness inre-challenged ovx allergic micethe role of probiotics in regulating the immune system and allergic diseases has been extensively debated   .

an oral probiotic b. longum 51a was administered daily by gavage for 15 days before the first ova sensitization of mice and continued until 4 h before the mouse ovariesfigure 3  preventive oral probiotic supplementation decreased the allergic airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness of re-challenged ovariectomized allergic mice.

the probiotic treatment also significantly reduced the mucus production in the lungs of re-challenged ovx allergic mice compared with non-treated re-challenged ovx allergic mice .preventive supplementation withb.

longum 51a increases the production of scfas and the number of lung treg cells in re-challenged ovx allergic micebecause scfas especially acetate have anti-inflammatory properties we hypothesized that scfa production by b. longum 51a could modulate allergic lung inflammation.

the re-challenged ovx allergic mice supplemented with the probiotic exhibited a significant increased percentage of tregs in balf compared with non-treated mice .oral probiotic supplementation after ovariectomy does not attenuate the exacerbated lung inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness ofre-challenged allergic micein this set of experiments we investigated the effect of probiotic supplementation on exacerbated lung inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness after ovariectomy when lung inflammation is established.

as shown in  when the probiotic was given after ovary removal the profile of total inflammatory cells and eosinophils recovered in the bal was not altered in the re-challenged allergic mice relative to the non-treated re-challenged ovx allergic mice .discussionclinical evidence shows that after puberty asthma is more frequent in females than in males which indicates that the oscillation of female sex hormones during the menstrual cycle is involved  .

accordingly after re-exposure to the antigen challenge ovariectomized allergic mice showed exacerbated allergic inflammation airway hyperresponsiveness and excess secretion of mucus and the cytokine il-5.

next we treated the mice with b. longum 51a before or after the induction of allergic reaction and ovariectomy to evaluate the preventive and therapeutic effect of the probiotic in this model of allergic lung inflammation.

