the inverse simpson diversity index was not influenced by the coded efb factor kruskal-wallis test k  3.183 p  0.208. pairwise comparisons after bonferroni correction p  0.05 indicated differences in the bee microbiome between colonies with clinical symptoms efb2 and control colonies efb0 p  0.001. no differences in either the bray-curtis or jaccard matrix were observed between colonies without clinical symptoms efb1 and control colonies efb0 p  1. when comparing colonies with clinical symptoms efb2 and those without clinical symptoms efb1 the differences were not significant p  0.894 for the bray-curtis matrix but were significant p  0.001 for the jaccard matrix.

however the comparison of the sequence numbers in the subsample dataset  revealed that three apiaries from the control colonies outside the efb zone exhibited 10 to 15 m. plutonius otu4 sequences whereas the m. plutonius-related sequences were absent in the rest of the control colonies .comparison of m. plutonius detection via hts microbiome analysis and conventional pcrbased on the conventional pcr results  m. plutonius was detected in all 24 tested samples from efb2 colonies with clinical symptoms and in none of the six tested samples from efb1 colonies without clinical symptoms located in the outbreak apiaries whereas none of the 19 samples from the control colonies was positive for m. plutonius.the hts approach used to investigate the honeybee microbiome indicated that all of the samples from outbreak sites coded as efb2 and efb1 were positive for m. plutonius.

the honeybee samples from efb-diseased apiaries located in the outbreak region in the krkonose mountains national park in eastern bohemia czechia comprised four colonies from an apiary in pec pod snezkou with only visible clinical symptoms whereas the second efb-diseased apiary in horni marsov included four colonies with clinical symptoms of efb and two colonies without visible efb manifestation and .

the lack of detection of m. plutonius by pcr could influence the lower proportion in the microbiome in efb0 than in efb1 although the sequence numbers based on hts were similar.the analysis of the worker honeybee microbiomes in the investigated samples revealed a 75-fold higher load of m. plutonius in worker bees from colonies exhibiting clinical symptoms compared with efb-asymptomatic colonies located at efb-diseased sites.furthermore we found that all of the samples from efb-asymptomatic colonies were positive for m. plutonius.

future detailed investigations of the occurrence of m. plutonius in honeybee colonies in different areas and countries would provide important information regarding efb epizootiology.asymptomatic colonies from efb-diseased sites are at high risk of disease outbreakin general the intercolony transmission routes of pathogens in honeybee colonies involve drifting robbing horizontal transmission and swarming vertical transmission  .

the taxa that showed higher proportions in the efb-asymptomatic colonies than in colonies with clinical symptoms of efb and the control colonies weres.

the bees from efb2 colonies with clinical symptoms exhibited a 75-fold-higher incidence of m. plutonius than those from efb1 asymptomatic colonies.

melissococcus plutonius was identified in all efb1 colonies as well as in some of the control colonies.

the experimental sampling design and the procedure for the sampling of bees from colonies used in the present study were similar to those employed in a previousstudy from switzerland  in that the distribution of m. plutonius was evaluated among bees originating from apiaries and colonies with and without symptoms of efb.

the honeybees were shaken off the brood combs into plastic bags and the bags were placed in a box with dry ice for transport and then stored at -80 c.for our analyses we coded the samples by the efb factor in the following mannerefb0--control bees collected outside the efb zone with no signs of efb ii efb1-- bees from an efb apiary but from colonies without clinical symptoms asymptomatic and iii efb2--bees from colonies with clinical symptoms of efb.dna extraction from honeybeeseach biological sample used for dna extraction included 10 hive worker bees and the analyses were performed using biological triplicates of each colony from the efb outbreak apiaries.

the relative number of sequences was highest in the colonies in the outbreak zone with clinical signs efb2 whereas the numbers in the colonies from efb apiaries without clinical symptoms efb1 were greatly decreased and the lowest number or an absence of sequences was observed in the control apiaries outside the outbreak zone efb0.

however all six samples from the efb1 colonies as well as three of the 19 samples from the efb0 control colonies were found to be positive for m. plutonius by hts.discussionthe first efb case arising after 40 years without reported efb in czechia was utilized for determination of m. plutonius abundance in workers via htsalthough the samples investigated in this study represent the first verified clinical outbreak of efb in czechia after 40 years of absence  we stress that the causative agent m. plutonius was never absent from czechia but that efb may have occurred mainly in enzootic see further discussion and non-lethal states.

in the present study according to our hts analysis all of the colonies from the two tested apiaries exhibiting clinical efb symptoms including efb-asymptomatic colonies were positive for m. plutonius.

these results support the suggestions of previous researchers   that it is not only workers from colonies with signs of efb but also those from efb-asymptomatic colonies located at efb-diseased apiaries that exhibit increased abundance of m. plutonius.

in a previous study colonies exhibiting clinical symptoms were determined to harbor m. plutonius loads greater than 50000 cfus per worker bee from brood nests however bees from colonies with fewer than 10 visibly diseased larvae had loads that were 100-fold lower than the threshold or the samples were even negative for m. plutonius .

