no change in liver weight normalized to body weight was observed among the treatment groups data not shown.cecum microbiota scfa concentration cecum content weight and total dna in mice fed the hfhs diet supplemented with tea extractscecum weight and dna content normalized to body weight was significantly increased in mice fed the hfhs-gtp and btp diets while feeding the lfhs diet had no effect compared to the hfhs diet supplemental fig.

48 male c57bl6j mice strain jax 000664 were received from the jackson laboratory at 6-7 weeks of age body weight 16-18 g. after 1 week of acclimation 28-day-old male c57bl6j mice were assigned to four groups with similar body weight distribution in each group and fed either a low-fathigh- sucrose diet lfhs d12489b from research diets inc. new brunswick nj usa high-fat hfhs d12266b from research diets inc. supplemental table 1 or hf hs diet supplemented with gtp and btp table  at0.5 g100 g of diet providing 0.25 g polyphenols100 g diet .

doi 10.1007s00394-017-1542-8decaffeinated green and black tea polyphenols decrease weight gain and alter microbiome populations and function in diet-induced obese micesusanne m. henning1  jieping yang1  mark hsu1  ru-po lee1 emma m. grojean1  austin ly1  chi-hong tseng2  david heber1  zhaoping li1received 21 march 2017  accepted 20 september 2017c springer-verlag gmbh germany 2017abstractpurpose decaffeinated green tea gt and black tea bt polyphenols inhibit weight gain in mice fed an obesogenicdiet.

during the 4-week dietary interven- tion the hfhs-treated mice had significantly higher body weight and subcutaneous and epididymal fat by weight fig.

supplementation of the hfhs diet with gt and bt polyphenols significantly decreased body weight subcutaneous mesenteric and epididymal fat normalized to body weight compared to hf hs control equal to the body composition of mice fed the lfhs diet fig.

in our previous study using the same gtp and btp supplemented diets we found 540 pmol of polyphenols egcg 4''-meegcg egc and ecg per g liver in mice fed the hfhs-gtp diet whereas only 20 pmolg liver of ecg was found in mice fed the hf hs-btp diet .

based on the food intake average consumption of polyphenols was 240 and 320 mg per kg body weight for mice fed the gtp and btp diet respectively.

1 effects of tea extracts on a body weight b  subcutane- ous fat c  mesenteric fat d  epididymal fat normalized to body weight e food intake and f energy intake in male c57bl6jmice fed an hfhs lfhs hfhs-gtp or hfhs-btp diet for 4 weeks.

body weight  epididymal  mesenteric  subcutane- ous fatbody weight cecum scfa content and hepatic ampk protein phosphorylation were analyzed with one-way anova with the factor being diet.

on the genus level we found that the relative proportion of blautia bryantella collinsella lactoba-cillus marvinbryantia and turicibacter were positivelycorrelated with body weight table  while barnesiella and parabacteroides were negatively correlated with body weight table .

since the intestinal microflora is an important contribu- tor to obesity it was the objective of this study to determine whether the intestinal microflora plays a role in the anti- obesogenic effect of gt and bt.methodsc57bl6j mice were fed a high-fathigh-sucrosediet hfhs 32 energy from fat 25 energy fromsucrose or the same diet supplemented with 0.25 gtp or btp or a low-fathigh-sucrose lfhs 10.6 energy from fat 25 energy from sucrose diet for 4 weeks.

the two most abundant bacterial phyla in humans and in mice are firmicutes 40-60 and bacteroidetes 20-40 with lower abundance of actino- bacteria fusobacteria proteobacteria and verrucomicrobia .

one recent study determined the effect of brewed gt bt and oolong tea provided as drinking fluid on the intestinal microbiota in mice fed a high-fat diet .

demonstrated that short-chain fatty acid scfa formation by the intestinal microflora pro- tected against the metabolic syndrome via a signaling cas- cade that involved amp-activated protein kinase ampk activation .to examine whether changes in the intestinal microbiota leading to an increase in intestinal scfa formation play a role in the anti-obesogenic effect of gt and bt polyphenols mice were fed a high-fathigh-sucrose western diet supple- mented with gt or bt polyphenols and changes in relative proportion of intestinal microbiota intestinal concentration of scfas and changes in hepatic ampk phosphorylation were determined.methodstea polyphenol extractschemical reagents and plant materialsall solvents were hplc grade and purchased from fisher scientific co. tustin ca usa.

based on the food intake we calculated that mice fed the gtp diet fig.

