other studie  did not find any effect of the delivery mode on the gut bacterial microbiota and suggested that the composition of the early infant gut bacterial microbiota is only associated with the maternal diet during the last three months of pregnancy.establishment of the anaerobic bacterial florain d28 samples the gut flora was composed almost exclusively of strictly anaerobic bacteria.

the presence of environmental bacteria in meconium could be caused by a possible contamination at the time of sample collection.maternal impact on the bacterial colonization processour study shows that each infant's bacterial microbiota is significantly closer to that of the mother than to that of any other woman in the mothers' group suggesting that the mother is actively involved in the initial seeding of her child's gut bacterial microbiota.

along the same lines a recent review by rutayisire et al.showed that the delivery mode affects the diversity and colonization pattern of the gut bacterial microbiota during the first three months of life.

then the gut microbiome changes during the first year of life until it reaches the composition characteristic of adulthood .despite the growing number of publications on gut microbiota found in the national center for biotechnology information  from 380 items in 2010 to 3193 in 2016 few studies have been conducted in unindustrialized countries and among populations with tradi- tional lifestyle.

infectious diar- rhea is responsible of the death of many children especially young infants living in developing countries due to poor hygiene unsanitary water contaminated food or inadequate disposal of waste and feces -.therefore it is important to analyze the different steps involved in the infant gut bacterial virus seeding and to monitor the changes of the gut microbiota community in the early days of life.

open accesscitation brazier l elguero e koumavor ck renaud n prugnolle f thomas f et al.

editor lorenzo brusetti free university of bozen bolzano italyreceived july 4 2017accepted september 14 2017published october 2 2017copyright c 2017 brazier et al.

all the.fasta and.qual files were concatenated in one single file that was used for a sequence alignment using silva ssu reference alignment v102  b removal of sequencing errors and chimeric sequences with the uchime program  c sequence assignment using the method described by wang et al.

by comparing the bacterial diversity of meconium and adult fecal samples hu et al.

de filippo et al.

similarly gomez et al.

ardisson et al.

conversely nagpal et al.

jimenez et al.

based on this previous finding and on their result that the dominant bacterial genera in the meconium are different from those found in the fecal skin or vaginal environments of pregnant women gosalbes et al.

