Therefore ant colonies in the H treatment were pre- vented from foraging for insect prey on plant surfaces while ant colonies in the H treatment had access to insect prey as a potential proteinaceous food source.Ant dietIn June 2010 we investigated whether the ant colonies in the H treatment were balancing their diet by foraging for more protein than the ant colonies in the H treat- ments.

By experimentally excluding most herbivorous insects from saplings of C. nodosa for nearly a year we investigated whether A. octoarticulatus ant colonies benefit directly from patrolling C. nodosa and potentially eating insect herbivores or whether colonies of this species pay a short- term cost to defend their host plants against herbivores.We expand on previous analyses that showed that ant col- ony size did not differ between herbivore-excluded and control ant colonies after almost a year in the experimen- tal treatments Frederickson et al.

over the lifetime of an ant colony however plant defense should still be beneficial to these ants because ridding plants of herbivores promotes plant growth and the production of additional food and nesting sites for the ant colony.In a previous study Frederickson et al.

the presence or absence of insect prey affected ant foraging for proteins vs. carbohydrates and ant trophic level as measured by analysis of nitrogen and carbon stable isotope ratios.

Alternatively finding that herbivore-exclu- sion did not affect ant foraging for protein vs. carbohy- drates might suggest that insects are a minor component of A. octoarticulatus's diet or that this ant species has other ways of overcoming nitrogen limitation such as via symbiotic bacteria.Microbial symbionts can perform important functions for their host and in some cases have coevolved with them Moran 2001.

To analyze the recruitment of ant work- ers to protein-rich baits we used an ANCOVA model with herbivore treatment as a fixed factor and recruitment of ant workers to carbohydrate-rich baits as a covariate thereby incorporating colony activity levels into the model.

We excluded one block because its ant colonies were out- liers in all the analyses during the experiment a large tree fell near this block creating a light gap that caused unusually rapid plant and ant colony growth.

Unexpectedly Fusobacteria were abundant in one ant col- ony H  block J these bacteria which are often patho- genic accounted for 84.5 of the bacteria in that sample.Analysis of beta diversity through PCoA also did not show any differences between treatments in the micro- bial assemblages in the ant gasters Appendix S1 Fig.

3141-3151c 2017 by the Ecological Society of AmericaAnt-plant mutualism a dietary by-product of a tropical ant's macronutrient requirementsLINA M. ARCILA HERNA NDEZ146 JON G. SANDERS2 GABRIEL A. MILLER25ALISON RAVENSCRAFT23 AND MEGAN E. F1REDERICKSON1Department of Ecology  Evolutionary Biology University of Toronto 25 Willcocks Street Toronto Ontario M5S 3B2 Canada2Department of Organismic  Evolutionary Biology Harvard University 26 Oxford Street Cambridge Massachusetts 02138 USAAbstract.

Here we examined whether the plant-ant Allomerus octoarticu- latus pays a short-term cost to defend their host plants against herbivores or whether plant defense is a by-product benefit of ant foraging for insect prey.

