Although GM imbalance in diseased infants was identified and GM improved after KD treatment more exploration was needed to elucidate the contri bution of a healthy GM to epilepsy onsetrecovery.This study revealed that KD can mitigate the symepileptic infants.

dhbk2005163.comTelephone 8675583936101Fax 8675583009800Received April 24 2017Peer-review started May 4 2017First decision June 5 2017Revised June 9 2017Accepted July 12 2017Article in press July 12 2017Published online September 7 2017AbstractAIMTo investigate whether patients with refractory epilepsy and healthy infants differ in gut microbiota GM and how ketogenic diet KD alters GM.METHODSA total of 14 epileptic and 30 healthy infants were recruited and seizure frequencies were recorded.

Published by Baishideng Publishing Group Inc. All rights reserved.However there are still 30 of epileptic infants who suffered from therapeutic futility and recurrent attacks.A growing number of reports indicated that KD is a promising therapeutic alternative for infants with refractory epilepsy as it has been shown to ameliorate their clinical symptoms including the frequency of seizures610.

In this study we performed a comparison between diseased infants before and after KD treatment and healthy controls to explore if and how GM of infants with refractoryPediatric epilepsy is widespread with complications including cognitive impairment delayed neurodevelop ment and loss of bodily control12.

To uncover the mechanism and pathogens involved in refractory infantile epilepsy further research should underscore functional gene networks in GM.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe thank the staff of WeHealthGene who contributed to the project but whose names are not included in the author list.BackgroundInfants with refractory epilepsy could not be cured by several anti-epileptic drugs AEDs and ketogenic diet KD was increasingly used as an alternative therapy to refractory epilepsy.

The decreased number of dominant pathogens and significantly increased number of beneficial bacteria after KD treatment offer new insight into KD therapy for epilepsy.ApplicationsThis study found several types of bacteria altered in the GM suggesting that these bacteria could be monitored as biomarkers to provide an important reference for epilepsy treatment.TerminologyGM which consists of many kinds of bacteria including pathogens commensalsXie G et al .

A highfat diet induced selective enrichment of bilemetabolizing microbiota such as Bacteroides16 whilst highfiber foods promoted theCore tip Many infants with epilepsy are refractory to current antiepileptic drugs and ketogenic diet KD could help to moderate seizure frequency as an alternative treatment.

KD could rapidly alter GM and alleviate seizure frequency in infants with refractory epilepsy.

Proteobacteria was highly accumulated in infants with refractory epilepsy 24.34 and decreased dramatically after KD therapy 10.77.

Streptococcus Alistipes Ruminiclostridium Barnesiella and Enterococcus also decreased after KD therapy Figures 3 and 4 and Supplementary Table 5.DISCUSSIONptoms of epilepsy and correct an imbalanced GM in epileptic infants.

