It is therefore reasonable to hypothesize that MPS may be related to future disorders of the offspring which develop through the dysregulation of innate and adaptive immune pathways such as asthma .The adaptive immune mechanism constitutes a critical path- way for the development of asthma which is characterized by a Th2-dominated immune response Il-4 Il-5 Il-13 and a down regulated Th-1 response Il-2 and IFN-g. Additionally othertypes of T cell subsets such as regulatory T cells which produceIl-10 and TGF-b as well as Th17 cells which produce Il-17 may confer to asthma development possibly by skewing the immu- nological response toward the Th-2 type .

Following studies in animal models that linked physical or psychological stress with allergy and asthma in the first decade of the 21st century researchers worked on the early-life stress and the consequences in asthma development later on.In 2006 a team from Charite Berlin Germany described an increased vulnerability toward asthma specific clinical features in prenatally stressed offspring mice .

The results were independ- ent from paternal psychological distress during pregnancy or maternal and paternal psychological distress after delivery.The relationship between MPS and asthma in the offspring seems to be influenced by the type of MPS and the age of onset of asthma symptoms.

Overall the study showed that the prevalence of wheezing or asthma was higher in children whose mothers had been exposed to some kind of prenatal stress than in mothers who had not experienced such a distress .CONCLUSiON AND FUTURePeRSPeCTiveSSeveral types of MPS seem to increase the vulnerability of the offspring to asthma through interrelated pathways.

5202.doi Keywords maternal prenatal stress offspring wheezing asthma glucocorticoids microbiotaiNTRODUCTiONAbout 40 years ago Selye gave the first generic and comprehensive definition of stress as the non- specific response of the body to any demand .

Few years later a large cohort study in Canada showed that maternal stress in early child- hood is positively associated with asthma at the age of 7 years .

However there are various other pathways through which maternal stress may increase the offspring's propensity for asthma.

Continued exposure to maternal distress in early life is associated with an increased risk of childhood asthma.

doTurcotte-Tremblay AM Lim R Laplante DP Kobzik L Brunet A King S. Prenatal maternal stress predicts childhood asthma in girls project ice storm.

Foetal exposure to maternal stressful events increases the risk of having asthma and atopic diseases in childhood.

