the number of matches is provided plus or minus the standard deviation for total human protein similarities for the subset of other tcr and immunoglobulins and for the subset of somatic proteins.average total blast human similarities per hiv tcraverage hiv tcr similarities to other human tcrig per hiv tcraverage non-tcrig human similarities per hiv tcr28.5 - 19.010.7 - 10.717.5 - 16.5table 5. list of tcr sequences from hiv patients synthesized for use in elisa experiments randomly selected from lin et al.

the human proteins mimicked by hiv include the human leucocyte antigens hla - cd4 t cell antigens - interferons and interleukins - nf-kb  blood coagulation proteins -- integrin  the substrates for cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor subunit 6 cpsf6 and cyclophilins nup358 and cypa  hrs protein  astrocyte proteins - as well as a highly conserved but unidentified human antigen -.

first hiv mimics randomly selected human tcr at an unexpectedly high rate compared to any other common human viruses average 71 as compared with the next highest mimicry rates displayed by hepatitis c virus cytomegalovirus and influenza a virus each of which mimic human tcr only about 20 of the time.

in light of recent observations that tcr mediate tolerance between both the human proteome and the microbiome by means of just such similarities - it seems likely that hiv has evolved very effectively to camouflage itself by mimicking not only a wide range of human proteins but also through its mimicry of both hla and tcr proteins the human immune system itself.

1-517-884-5039received 22 august 2017 accepted 28 september 2017 published 3 october 2017abstract human immunodeficiency virus hiv hides from the immune system in part by mimicking host antigens including human leukocyte antigens.

while exploring tcr similarities to various human and microbial proteins it became apparent that hiv also mimics the hypervariable antigen recognition region of most human tcr.the ability of the immune system to respond to a wide range of antigens depends on a process of recombination between diverse genetically encoded sequences and the generation of highly variable linkers that join these encoded sequences.

the assumption behind such studies is that cd3 v-b-d-j-b sequences are disease-specific and can reveal important information about antigen restriction.recent analysis of cd3 v-b-d-j-b regions of t cell receptors tcr from human beings has yielded the surprising observation that tcr sequences always mimic several and sometimes many other human proteins .

thus hiv mimicry of tcr creates a high probability of inducing antilymphocyte autoimmunity in the host and poses significant difficulties for hiv vaccine development.resultsoverall the results of this study demonstrate that hiv mimics human tcr to a higher degree than any other microbe thus far examined including commensal mutualistic and symbiotic organisms chronic infectious agents and common human pathogens.

this mimicry translates into anti-hiv antibodies that have a high probability of recognizing human tcr sequences with affinities associated with active autoimmune disease at least under in vitro conditions.figure provides an example of the data generated for each tcr showing that there is a high degree of similarity between human tcr and multiple viral bacterial and protozoal proteins.

first comparing table with table demonstrates that hiv mimics human tcr at a higher rate than any other class of microbes including human commensal bacteria such as the bifidobacteria clostridia and lactobacilli.

this observation confirms the data in table showing similarly that hiv mimics human tcr at a far higher rate than any microbe known to infect human beings.table also illustrates the fact that tcr derived from people infected with hiv have increased similarity to a variety of bacteria and protozoal infections associated with aids.

a few hiv proteins such as vif vpu and vpx rarely show similarity to human tcr.figure provides representative but highly selected data demonstrating that hiv tcr mimic human proteins with great fidelity.

human protein similarities were previously reported for all of the other human tcr utilized in this study .

cytomegalovirus hepatitis c and tuberculosis antibodies did not show either as broad or as high-affinity interactions with the same tcr indicating that the hiv mimicry of human tcr is relatively unique to this virus.the data also demonstrate that all tcr are strongly selected to mimic the human proteome itself .

have demonstrated experimentally that t cell recognition of hiv antigens is inversely related to the degree to which they mimic human proteins in general the more similar an hiv antigen is to a human antigen the more likely it will be tolerated as self.

