2 c and d. this finding was supported by measurements of mrelmb lipid binding activity in which we measured fluorescence resonance energy transfer fret between mrelmb tryptophan residues and dansyl-labeled pcps liposomes 15. the mrelmb c terminus produced greater fret than full-length mrelmb fig.

when added to pcps liposomes the mrelmb c terminus yielded a dye efflux rate that exceeded that of full-length mrelmb while the mrelmb n terminus resulted in virtually no dye release fig.

both full-length mrelmb and the mrelmb c terminus triggered rapid dye efflux in lipo- somes loaded with cf 10-a stokes diameter but not liposomes loaded with fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran 10 fd10 44-a stokes diameter fig.

1 e and f. thus relmb permeabilizes the bacterial mem- brane suggesting a mechanism for its bactericidal activity.interestingly the bactericidal activity of relmb was dependenton the growth phase of the target bacteria as c. rodentium grown to midlogarithmic phase was more readily killed than stationary- phase bacteria fig.

our in vivo findings are consistent with the potent bactericidal activity of relmb for p. aeruginosa and c. rodentium both proteobacteria and diminished mrelmb bactericidal activity toward b. thetaiotaomicron belonging to the bacteroidetes ande.

regiiig is a bactericidal protein that specifically targets gram-positive bacteria in the small intestine 4 15 20lypd8 binds to flagellin and thus reduces the motility of flagel- lated gram-negative bacteria in the colon 5 and zg16 binds and aggregates gram-positive bacteria in the colon 6. relmb is mechanistically unique relative to these antimicrobial factors in that it is a bactericidal protein that selectively targets gram- negative bacteria thus reducing their penetration into the co- lonic inner mucus layer.an interesting question is whether the bactericidal activity of relmb can help to explain the metabolic abnormalities that are observed in relmb-deficient mice 27. the composition of intestinal bacterial communities has a marked influence on metabolic outcomes such as susceptibility to obesity glucosectolerance and insulin resistance 28. thus it seems plausible that alteration of intestinal bacterial communities by relmbparticularly those that are most closely associated with host tis- sues could have metabolic consequences.

c. rodentium was treated with 5 mm mrelmb hrelmb or bsa and pi uptake was measured over 2 h. f pi uptake by c. rodentium in the presence of increasing concentrations of mrelmb or hrelmb.

s3c and with the acidic lipid content of bacterial membranes 13.the crystal structure of mrelmb reveals two distinct domains an a-helix at the n terminus and a c-terminal b-sheet structure having a cluster of aromatic residues 14 fig.

to determine which domain of mrelmb drives membrane permeabilization we synthesized a peptide representing the n-terminal a-helix and expressed a recombinant mrelmb c terminus.

pcps liposomes 100 mm were incubated with 5 mm full-length mrelmb or the mrelmb n or c terminus.

the 5 mm full-length mrelmb or the mrelmb n or c terminus was added to liposomes incorporating 5 dansyl-pe and dansyl fluorescence was monitored as measure of binding.

the ability to form multimers was retained by the mrelmb c terminus supporting the importance of the c terminus in mediating interactions with lipid bilayers fig.

given the predicted molecular weight of monomeric relmb 8.8 kda this suggests that the multimeric membrane-associated mrelmb as- sembly is composed of six to eight mrelmb subunits.to further define the functional properties of membrane- associated relmb we loaded pcps liposomes with fluorescent dyes having different stokes diameters.

we verified that mrelmb was absent in the colons of retnlb-- mice fig.

4 c and d. indeed full-length hretn induced dye release at a faster rate than the mrelmb c terminus fig.

