besides 'culturo- mics' referring to the extensive culture of samples in various conditions and that has been found to detect bacterial species missed in metagenomics  should not be used in this context because no standardized protocol has been proposed.setting up studies aimed at assessing the impact of antibiotics on the microbiota in patients is challenging because of the het- erogeneity of dosing regimens the co-administration of other an- tibiotics or other drugs that may also impact the microbiota and the previous intake of antibiotics.

hence to ensure the homogeneity of participants and antibiotic regimen that will enable comparisons to be made between studies and antibiotics we believe that studies aimed at assessing the impact of antibiotics on the microbiota should be performed on healthy volunteers.

hence clinicians aim to use antibiotics that have the least impact on the intestinal microbiota and data supporting the choice of an antibiotic over another one in this process are expected .

although recent advances of meta- genomic sequencing have deepened our knowledge about the dy- namics and functions of the intestinal microbiota few studies have focused on the impact caused by individual antibiotics e with substantial heterogeneity in their protocols with regards to dna extraction sequencing type targeted or shotgun metagenomics bioinformatic pipeline and biostatistical analyses.

hence although the clinical spectrum of old and new antibiotics has been assessed by standardized methods their impact on the intestinal microbiota has not.

1. proposition for the assessment of the impact of antibiotics on the intestinal microbiota.

the score reflecting the impact on the intestinal concentrations of esbl-pe cpe vre and c. difficile is calculated as the log10 of the ratio between their intestinal concentrations after and before antibiotic exposure.

conversely in settings such as the intensive care unit the administration of antibiotics is more frequent but antibiotics are rarely given alone.

ecommentaryimpact of antibiotics on the intestinal microbiota needs to be re-defined to optimize antibiotic usagee.

solutions tackling antibiotic resistance include the protection of our intestinal microbiota against antibiotics to prevent the acquisition selection and overgrowth of multidrug-resistant bacteria mdrb here refers to extended-spectrum b-lactamase-producing enterobacteriaceae esbl-pe carbapenemase-producing enterobacteriaceae cpe vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre and clostridium difficile.

this is precisely what needs to be assessed to support the clinicians' decision to de-escalate the antibiotic therapy.to that end we first need to select markers reflecting the various aspects of the impact of antibiotics on the microbiota.

conversely antibiotics are expected to decrease the intestinal richness and diversity.

more com- plex will be the design of studies assessing the impact of antibiotics on the acquisition and transmission of mdrb.

conversely the impact on the gut microbiota results from both the concentrations achieved by the antibiotic in the co- lon and the susceptibility of intestinal bacteria which is usually not known.

yet intestinal concentrations of erythromycin are high enough up to 600 mgg of faeces for the drug to be active on some intestinal gram-negative bacteria including enterobacteriaceae .

