thus we distinguished cross 2 larvae that did not express the tumor non-cancerous larvae henceforth referred to as g from those showing the gfp-labeled tumor cancerous larvae henceforth c.after determining the cancerous status we obtained 30 larvae for each group cancerous non-cancerous and control and three control microbiota-free larvae of each cross.

the two boxes describe the crosses generated to obtain control larvae cross 1 and cancerousnon-cancerous larvae cross 2. the picture shows an eye- antennal tumor in situ under gfp.very few studies have explored the link between intestinal microbiota alterations and non-digestive cancers.

after selection seven larvae were transferred into each well of a 96-well plate filled with yeast-sugar-agar media wells were then sealed by plugs.after two more days of incubation at 24 degc we performed tumor visualization of 3rd instar larvae using a dissecting microscope under gfp fluorescence zeiss a lovert 200 m 2.5x.

all diversity estimators indicated that control larvae had a more diverse bacterial community than cancerous and non-cancerous larvae coming from cross 2 descendants carrying oncogenic mutations table .

however pcoa also showed that the bacterial microbiome of cancerous larvae was similar to that of non-cancerous larvae.

on the rda biplot we observed that bacillaceae and streptococcaceae were more abundant in the microbiota of non-cancerous larvae contrary to leuconostocaceae which were more common in cancerous larvae.

through new-generation sequencing we aimed to identify an association between the structure of intestinal microbiota and the presence of eye disc tumor in drosophila larvae.

second we identified a bacterial signature at the family level of cancer cancerous larvae host a significantly lower relative abundance of bacillaceae than individuals that did not develop the tumor.

we characterized the diversity and structure of intestinal microbiota in drosophila larvae with a tumor in the eye-antennal disc using new generation sequencing ngs of polymerase chain reaction pcr-generated amplicons from the 16s rrna gene.

microbiota-free larvae from crosses 1 and 2 were also generated by dechorionation of embryos with 50 bleach.

from the two crosses we selected larvae at the late 2nd or early 3rd instar stage based on the lack of the dominant tubby phenotype carried on the tm6b balancer chromosome.

the gfp-labeled tumor cells were easily observable in living larvae through the transparent cuticle fig.

cross 1 descendants did not show an over-proliferation of eye-disc cells but half of the cells are gfp-labeled these control larvae are henceforth referred to nc.

rarefaction curves for each group of larvae were plotted using observed otus and the shannon index of species richness the inext and diversitysampler packages.

for the sake of clarity families with a relative abundance below 2 are not included.we then characterized the microbiota structure for each group of larvae.

