the exact cause of haec is not fully understood but distur- bances of intestinal microbiota have recently been reported in patients with haec.

the incidence of haec withwithout probiotics was22.6 and 30.5 respectively but this was not statistically different or 0.72 95 ci 0.37-1.39 p  0.33. conclusionthis study shows that the administration of probiotics was not associated with a significant reduction in the risk of haec.

however the exact mechanism of action of probiotics therapy for haec is yet to be fully understood and the benefits of probiotics for haec are not clear.

their result revealed that probiotics not only significantly decreased the incidencetable 1 study characteristicsstudycountrypublish yearprobiotics probiotics -probioticsnumbernumberof haecincidence of haec numbernumberof haecincidence of haec fig.

reported markedly decreased lactobacilli and bifidobacteria in haec patients and speculated that this may result in a decrease in epithelial barrier function and be a predisposing factor in the development of haec.

nakamura1  t. lim2  p. puri13accepted 21 september 2017  published online 5 october 2017c springer-verlag gmbh germany 2017abstractbackgroundpurpose hirschsprung-associated entero- colitis haec is a life-threatening complication of hirschsprung's disease.

haec is reported to occur in 6-50 of patients preoperatively and in 2-35 postoperatively.

in recent years the administration of probiotics has been proposed to reduce the incidence of haec.

we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to determine the effect of probiotics on postoperative haec.

additional studies are required to under- stand more fully the role of microbiota and complex interac- tions that cause haec.

with increasing knowledge of the role of microbiota in haec we are likely to understand better the potential benefits of probiotics in this disease.keywords probiotics  hirschsprung's disease  hirschsprung's-associated enterocolitisintroductionprobiotics are defined as live microorganisms which when consumed in adequate amounts which confer a health benefit on the host.

as well probiotics can promote mucin production which isderanged in hirschsprung-associated enterocolitis haec .

haec is a life-threatening complication of hirschsprung's disease hscr.

haec is reported to occur in 6-50 of patients preoperatively and in 2-35 postop- eratively.

the exact cause of haec is not fully understood.

