ultimately the collective assessment of these microbial parameters will contribute to our understanding on what is normal gut micro- bial development in infants and what deviations from normal development predict future disease.child study investigatorschild study investigators anand s. s. mcmaster university azad m. b. university of manitoba becker a. b. university of manitoba befus a. d. university of alberta brauer m. university of british columbia brook j. r. university of toronto chen e. northwestern university chicago cyr m. m. mcmaster university daley d. university of british columbia dell s. d. the hospital for sick children and university of toronto denburg j. a. mcmaster university duan q. l. queen's university eiwegger t. the hospital for sick children and university of toronto grasemann h. the hospital for sick children and university of toronto hayglass k. university of manitoba hegele r. g. the hospital for sick children and university of toronto holness d. l. university of toronto hystad p. oregon state university kobor m. university of british columbia kollmann t. r. university of british columbia kozyrskyj a. l. university of alberta laprise c. universite du quebec a chicoutimi lou w. y. w. university of toronto macri j. mcmaster university mandhane p. j. university of alberta miller g. northwestern university chicago moraes t. j. the hospital for sick children and university of toronto pare p. university of british columbia ramsey c. university of manitoba ratjen f. the hospital for sick children and university of toronto sandford a. university of british columbia scott j. university of toronto scott j. a. university of toronto sears m. r. founding director mcmaster university silverman f. university of toronto simons e. university of manitoba subbarao p. director the hospital for sick children and university of toronto takaro t. simon fraser university tebbutt s. j. university of british columbia to t. the hospital for sickchildren and university of toronto turvey s. e. codirector university of british columbia.ethics statementthis study was approved by the human research ethics boards of the university of alberta and the university of manitoba.

however the enterobacteria also became moretable 2  correlation between maximum significance analysis of microarrays sam score per perinatal group and select operational taxonomic unit otu changes at the family level.asimilar correlations were obtained for the maximum sam score for otu decreases.yasmin et al.gut microbial changes in later infancy  7table 3  top 10 statistically significant increases to operational taxonomic unit otu abundance from 3 months to 1 year of infant age at the genus and species level.vaginal breastfed and no antibiotic usevaginal breastfed and antibiotic usevaginal not breastfed and no antibiotic usevaginal not breastfed and antibiotic useelective cs breastfed and antibiotic useelective cs not breastfed and antibiotic useemergency cs breastfed antibiotic use otusignificance analysis ofmicroarrays sam score otusamscore otusamscore otusamscore otusamscore otusamscore otusamscoreveillonella sp.5.2bacteroides caccae5.3unclassifiedenterobacteriaceae sp.4.0bacteroides ovatus3.3unclassified clostridia4.7ruminococcus sp.9.0anaerostipes sp.4.1roseburia sp.5.1unclassifiedpeptostreptococcaceae sp.5.0bacteroides sp.3.7unclassifiedenterobacteriaceae sp.3.2bacteroides sp.4.5streptococcus sp.4.0fusobacterium sp.4.9veillonella sp.4.6oscillospira sp.3.6citrobacter sp.2.9unclassified clostridia4.5ruminococcus gnavus3.7streptococcus sp.4.8unclassifiedlachnospiraceae sp.4.3unclassifiedlachnospiraceae sp.3.4bacteroides sp.2.8unclassifiedlachnospiraceae sp.4.3unclassifiedlachnospiraceae sp.3.7unclassifiedruminococcaceae sp.4.8unclassifiedruminococcaceae sp.4.2bacteroides uniformis3.4actinomyces sp.2.8citrobacter sp.4.1parabacteroides sp.3.6g lactobacillusf lactobacillaceaef lachnospiraceae unclassified genus and speciess caccaeg bacteroidesf lachnospiraceae unclassified genus and speciesg faecalibacterium f ruminococcaceae4.7g streptococcusf streptococcaceae4.4f coriobacteriaceae unclassified genus and species4.4f lachnospiraceae unclassified genus and species4.3f enterobacteriaceae unclassified genus and species4.3g lachnospiraf lachnospiraceae4.2g ruminococcusf lachnospiraceae4.0f lachnospiraceae unclassified genus and species3.9g bacteroidesf bacteroidaceae3.9g veillonellaf veillonellaceae3.8g blautiaf lachnospiraceae3.3g streptococcusf streptococcaceae3.2f lachnospiraceae unclassified genus and species3.1f lachnospiraceae unclassified genus and species3.1f ruminococcaceae unclassified genus and species3.1f enterobacteriaceae unclassified genus and species2.8g actinomycesf actinomycetaceae2.8g streptococcusf streptococcaceae2.7f ruminococcaceae unclassified genus and species2.7s disparg veillonella2.7f enterobacteriaceae unclassified genus and species4.0g parabacteroidesf porphyromonadaceae3.9g atopobiumf coriobacteriaceae3.9g bifidobacteriumf bifidobacteriaceae3.7s productag blautia3.6s gnavusg ruminococcus3.63.63.43.43.4table 4  top 10 statistically significant decreases in operational taxonomic unit otu abundance from 3 months to 1 year of infant age at the genus and species level.vaginal breastfed and no antibioticvaginal breastfed andvaginal not breastfed andvaginal not breastfed and elective cs breastfed andelective cs not breastfedemergency cs breastfeduseotusignificance analysis ofmicroarrays sam scoreantibiotic useotusamscoreno antibiotic useotusamscoreantibiotic useotusamscoreantibiotic useotusamscoreand antibiotic useotusamscoreand antibiotic useotusamscorebacteroides sp.-5.9unclassifiedlachnospiraceae sp.-5.9 bacteroides caccae-4.0 escherichia sp.-3.1 parabacteroidesdistasonis-5.7 bacteroides sp.-10.1 unclassifiedruminococcaceae sp.-5.2faecalibacterium prausnitzii-5.7bacteroides sp.-5.4 unclassifiedenterobacteriaceaesp.-4.0 faecalibacterium sp.

5200. doi 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 piush j. mandhane2stuart e. turvey8 padmaja subbarao9 malcolm r. sears10 child study investigators 3 irina dinu1 and 1251 department of public health sciences university of alberta edmonton ab canada 2 department of pediatrics university of alberta edmonton ab canada 3 dalla lana school of public health university of toronto toronto on canada 4 centre for the analysis of genome evolution and function university of toronto toronto on canada 5 department of obstetrics and gynecology university of alberta edmonton ab canada 6 department of agricultural food and nutritional sciences university of alberta edmonton ab canada 7 department of pediatrics and child health university of manitoba winnipeg mb canada 8 department of pediatrics university of british columbia vancouver bc canada 9 department of pediatrics university of toronto toronto on canada 10 department of medicine mcmaster university hamilton on canadaestablished during infancy our complex gut microbial community is shaped by medical interventions and societal preferences such as cesarean section formula feeding and antibiotic use.

we applied the sam method to capture change in otu abundance from 3 to 12 months of age within each of the seven strata i vaginal birth breastfed by 3 months no antibiotic exposure during birth or by 3 months of age less disturbedii vaginal birth breastfed with antibiotic exposure iii vaginal birth not breastfed with antibiotic exposure iv vaginal birth not breastfed no antibiotic exposure v elective cesarean with antibiotic prophylaxis breastfed vi elective cesarean with antibiotic prophylaxis not breastfed and vii emergency cesar- ean breastfed.

the resultant number of otus per perinatal group was approximately 1000 as follows i vaginal breastfed and no antibiotic use 1124 otus ii vaginal breastfed and anti- biotic use 1111 otus iii vaginal not breastfed and antibio- tic use 995 otus iv vaginal not breastfed and no antibiotic use 1094 otus v elective cs breastfed and antibiotic use 1069 otus vi elective cs not breastfed and antibiotic use 918 otus and vii emergency cs breastfed and antibi- otic use 1067 otus.data were visually represented as plots of sam scores to show statistically significant changes in otu relative abundance from 3 months to 1 year.

a for all infants n  166 pairs b infants delivered vaginally breastfed and not exposed to antibiotics n  71 pairs c infants delivered vaginally breastfed and exposed to antibiotics n  34 pairs d infants delivered vaginally not breastfed and exposed to antibiotics n  8 pairs e infants delivered vaginally not breastfed and not exposed to antibiotics n  17 pairs f infants delivered by elective cesarean section breastfed and exposed to antibiotics n  13 pairs g infants delivered by elective cesarean section not breastfed and exposed to antibiotics n  3 pairs and h infants delivered by emergency cesarean section breastfed and exposed to antibiotics n  16 pairs.the proportion of unchanged otu abundance rose further to 68 in vaginally delivered and formula-fed infants who had not been exposed to antibiotics.

cesarean-delivered breastfed infants exhibited these microbial changes to an extent intermediate to that of vaginally born not breastfed infants and vaginally born breastfed infants.genus level changes according to the sam scoreas many others have done we created a heat map of sam scores by otu genus category and perinatal exposure group to visually differentiate across perinatal exposures the degree of otu abundance change at the genus level .

also in these 2 groups of infants a greater propor- tion of bacteroidetes otus were unchanged and much fewer bacteroidetes species increased their abundance.family level changes according to the sam scoreaccording to the maximum sam score for otu increase or decrease perinatal exposure groups were ranked from highest to lowest scores as follows  breastfed after vaginal birth withwithout antibiotic treatment breastfed after cesarean delivery and not breastfed after vaginal birth with without antibiotics.

within these parameters the sam method revealed that the fewest changes in microbial abundance occurred in infants delivered by elective cesarean and not breastfed followed by infants that were not breastfed after vaginal delivery.on the other hand limitations to the sam method included our inability to adjust for individual confounding factors and to analyze sets of multiple correlated measures such as sets of otus at higher taxonomic categories sharing a common bio- logical function.

the small sample size for infants delivered by emergency cesarean and not breastfed was insufficient to run the permutations of the sam method.rationale for adapting sam to quantify longitudinal changes in gut microbiotathe sam method was introduced and extended to gene microar- ray studies for the purpose of better understanding mechanismsof disease.

creating an sam plot for each perinatal exposure grouping also enabled visual comparison of the shape of observed sam score lines across exposure groups and against the gold standard of infants delivered vaginally breastfed and not exposed to antibiot- ics labeled the less disturbed group.

all perinatal exposures produced some deviation from the less disturbed group but the shape of the sam score line for infants not breastfed was the most deviant.as reported in and table s1 in supplementary material the sam score can also be quantified according to the total number and percent of changes to relative abundance by type increasing decreasing and no change for all otus and for otus within their phylogenetic groups phyla.

increases 28.5 firmicutes and 12 bacteroidetes or decreases 3.5 proteobacteria and 10 firmicutes in otu abundance were slightly more common when vaginally delivered breastfed infants were exposed to antibiotics by 3 months of age.exclusive formula feeding combined with antibiotic expo- sure after a vaginal birth resulted in an otu rise similar in proportion to less disturbed infants 26 firmicutes and 11 bacteroidetes but much fewer otus 10 declined in abun- dance 2 proteobacteria such that 43 of otu abundance was unchanged.figure 1  significance analysis of microarrays sam plots for all infants and for each seven perinatal exposure group from the paired sam analysis.

we chose a fixed fdr value of 0.1.we also used employed spearman correlation to assess the agreement between otu changes and the maximum sam score statistic for each perinatal group.software analysis packageswe used r software version 2.15.3 for executing the sam method to generate sam statistic plots for paired otu abundance values within infants of each perinatal exposure group.

in contrast to the other vaginally born groups the actinobacteria bifidobacteria- like microbes rose by 1.infants born by elective or emergency cesarean and exposedto antibiotics who were still being breastfed by 3 months of age had a similar profile seen as a 50 28 firmicutes and 12table 1  statistically significantly increased decreased and unchanged microbial operational taxonomic unit otu abundance from 3 months to 1 year per infant perinatal exposure group.significance analysis of microarrays could not be executed for infants born by emergency cesarean and not breastfed due to the small number of infants in that group.bacteroidetes enrichment and at 7-8 1 proteobacteria a much lower decline in otu abundance than vaginally delivered infants.

