at pa and ma the abundance of the targeted bacteria was 0.67 and 0.85 of total bacteria respectively.

the balos are characterized by their parasitic lifestyle on other gram-negative bacteria and represented 86.07 of the predatory bacteria in thesample while it summed up to 26.31 and 37.88 at if and pa respectively.

specific for ma were observed.table 1. number of reads of different reported predatory taxa in the metagenomic analysis of 16s rrna gene sequences.taxasite of collection n of reads aa the total number of reads obtained by illumina sequencing is given.isolation of antibiotic producing predatory bacteriain the metagenomic analysis it was shown that only about 0.5 of the bacteria present in the environmental samples correspond to known predatory bacteria.

if diffusion chambers like the ichip which was successfully applied in the isolation of the teixobactin-producing bacterium eleftheria terrae  can be successfully applied to isolate social bacteria which hunt as wolf packs must be evaluated in the future.interestingly by the approach applied in the project strains belonging to the actinobacteria and bacillales taxa were isolated which had not been reported before as predatory bacteria.

articlediversity and antimicrobial potential of predatory bacteria from the peruvian coastlineluis linares-otoya 125 virginia linares-otoya 35  lizbeth armas-mantilla 3 cyntia blanco-olano 3 max crusemann 2  mayar l. ganoza-yupanqui 3  julio campos-florian 3  gabriele m. konig 24 and till f. schaberle 124institute for insect biotechnology justus liebig university of giessen 5392 giessen germany institute for pharmaceutical biology university of bonn 3115 bonn germanym.c.

in order to obtain promising strains for the putative production of novel antimicrobials predatory bacteria were isolated from these sampling sites using two different bait organisms.

even though the proportion of predatory bacteria was only around 0.5 in the here investigated environmental microbiomes by this approach in total 138 bacterial strains were isolated as axenic culture.

certain bacteria apply the strategy to live in association with larger organisms e.g.

the latter group consists of more autonomous bacteria that in most cases possess larger genomes which provide them with a larger metabolic repertoire enabling themi to get access to scarce nutrients andor ii to produce bioactive specialized metabolites to protect themselves from predators or even to play this role .mar.

drugs 2017 15 308 doipredatory behavior is widely distributed among bacteria and can be found in several phyla e.g.

are obligatory predatory bacteria which apply a periplasmatic type of predation .

it is assumed that the biosynthesis of antibiotics plays an important role in their predatory lifestyle .the assumption that these bacteria use antibiotics to weaken or even kill their prey  implements the great potential of these organisms as source for novel bioactive compounds.

thereby in this study the focus is on predatory bacteria.

approximately half of the genera present in the samples of pa and ma were specific for the respective site while at the if site only one sixth of all bacteria could be contributed to specific genera.figure 1. sample collection sites.

at pa instead the chitinophagia class represented the remaining bacteria.

