cecum protein quantity is greater in the autism group as compared to the two control groups for a complex i c complex iii and e complex v. in the cecum relative to the rectum protein content is greater in the autism group as compared to the control groups both separately and combined for f complex i h complex iii i complex iv and j complex v. error bars represent standard error.

research articlemitochondrial dysfunction in the gastrointestinal mucosa of children with autism a blinded case-control studyshannon rose1 sirish c. bennuri1 katherine f. murray2 timothy buie3 harland winter2 richard eugene frye11 autism research program arkansas children's research institute little rock arkansas united states of america 2 department of pediatric gastroenterology and nutrition massgeneral hospital for children boston massachusetts united states of america 3 department of gastroenterology boston children's hospital boston massachusetts united states of america abstractopen accesscitation rose s bennuri sc murray kf buie t winter h frye re 2017 mitochondrial dysfunction in the gastrointestinal mucosa of children with autism a blinded case-control study.

citrate synthase and etc complex iv activity was not sig- nificantly different across areas cecum vs rectum or group .discussionin this study mitochondrial function in the gi tract was tested in the cecum and rectal mucosa and blindly compared between children with asd to neurotypical children with crohn's dis- ease and those with non-specific gi symptoms.

still the elevation in complex i activity in both the cecum and the rectum and the consistency of this findings with previous studies may suggest that the elevation in etc complex i activity may have more specificity to asd than the increases in the other etc complexes.the fact that increased etc complex protein content was primarily seen in the cecum an area where enteric microbiome fermentation products such as ppa and but are abundant suggests a role for the enteric microbiome in the evolution of mitochondrial abnormalities in children with asd.

the fact that this increase was not apparent when the cecum alone was compared across groups suggests a slightly weaker effect than what was seen for etc complex i. this combination of findings may suggest that a greater amount of etc complex iv protein is needed to produce the same activity in the cecum perhaps because etc complex iv is functioning inefficiently or because xenobiotic agents are damaging some of the complex iv proteins.

we hypothesized that the asd children would have altered mitochondrial parameters particularly in the cecum since this is an area of high metabolic activity of the microbiome.electron transport chain complex protein quantityshows an example of western blots for a set of matched rectal and cecum samples.the quantity of complex i protein was significantly higher in the cecum as compared to rec- tum f181  4.91 p0.05.

however when the quantity of complex ii protein in the cecum relative to the rectum was compared across groups the asd group had a lower quantity of complex ii pro- tein in the cecum relative to the rectum as compared to the typically developing group but not the crohn's disease group .the quantity of complex iii protein was significantly higher in the cecum as compared to rectum f181  5.03 p0.05.

an increase in etc complex i activity without a concomitant increase in complex ii activity could suggest an increase in but availability in the lower intestine of children with asd since but enters the citric acid cycle as acetyl-coa where it would enhance the production of nadh which would result in an increase in etc complex i relative to complex ii see .

using a single-blind case-control design complex i and iv and cit- rate synthase activities and complex i-v protein quantity from 10 children with asd 10 chil- dren with crohn's disease and 10 neurotypical children with nonspecific gi complaints were measured.

the relative quantity of all etc complex proteins was higher in the cecum relative to the rectum in children with asd as compared to the other control children except for etc complex ii.

ten de-identified samples from each group were sent to arkansasthe microbiome in the lower gastrointestinal gi tract of healthy a and individuals with autism b. for review of difference in the microbiome between children with autism and neurotypical children please see our recent reviews  .

understanding the connection between mito- chondrial dysfunction and gi abnormalities can help clarify the association between behav- ioral manifestations and gi pathology the resistance of children with asd to standard gi treatment and the gi pathology associated with asd.supporting informations1 table.

to understand if mitochondrial abnormalities are unique to children with asd we compared measurement of mitochondrial function in children with asd to two groups of children without asd those with crohn's disease and those with non-specific gi complaints.children's research institute little rock ar for analysis.

in our recent study of comparing lcls from males with autistic disorder to their matched typi- cally developing siblings we found that this atypical elevated mitochondrial respiration is asso- ciated with worse repetitive and stereotypical behavior .this study confirms previous reports of increased mitochondrial activity in children with asd - specifically increased etc complex i activity in muscle  and extends this observation to altered etc complex activity in the gi mucosa.

examination of etc complex activity substantiated higher activity in asd children specific to the cecum for etc complex i but not for etccomplex iv.

