FMT reduced mortality only in patients with severe CDI log- rank test P  .0001 Figure 2A but not those with nonsevere CDI P  .86 Figure 2B and this finding was confirmed in the multivariate analyses severe CDI HR 0.15 95 CI .06-.39 P  .0001 nonsevere CDI HR 0.61 95 CI .02-20.5P  .78 consistent with the logistic regression analyses.DISCUSSIONHere we showed that early FMT dramatically prevented mor- tality in patients with severe CDI.

unless otherwise indicated.Abbreviations CDI Clostridium difficile infection FMT fecal microbiota transplantation IQR interquartile range WHO World Health Organization.aTwo-sided Mann-Whitney test.bTwo-sided kh2 test.cCharlson score index of comorbidities corresponding to the 1-year mortality risk.dWHO performance status patient autonomy indicator from 0 to 4.eMore than 2 days in the previous 3 months.fIn the 3 months preceding.Study Outcomes The global mortality rate was 24.3 27111 at 3 months afterthe diagnosis of CDI 12.1 866 in the transplant group vs 42.2 1945 in the antibiotic group univariate odds ratio OR 0.19 95 confidence interval CI .073-.49 P  .0003.

Clostridium difficile fecal microbiota transplantation mortality survival treatment.Clostridium difficile infection CDI is an emerging worldwide public health concern associated with substantial mortality and recurrence 1-3.

Based on the continuing ongoing epidemic the demon- strated efficacy of FMT in the CDI context the demonstrated biological mechanism disruption of the gut microbiota during CDI restored by FMT 28 29 and the relatively good safety and long-term tolerance 30-32 we subsequently proposed earlyFMT to all CDI patients hospitalized in our unit regardless of comorbidities ribotype recurrence or severity.

Regarding our study 1 patients with severe CDI withoutFMT had a very severe prognosis with very high mortality 30-60 2 FMT has a good safety profile compared with CDI and surgery 3 the potential benefit was sufficiently high OR 0.2 41 to be unambiguous 4 the scientific ration- ale including all available clinical studies taking recurrence as outcome and basic research studies on microbiota restoration was sufficiently strong for the result to be generally acceptedsurgery usually proposed as salvage therapy in severe cases was not an appropriate treatment to serve as a control because it could be proposed only in selected patients 30 the benefit was not demonstrated mortality remained very high in oper- ated patients 32-57 4-8 and the quality of life in survi- vors is strongly altered 6 directness seemed optimal as our study conducted in the epicenter and period of a C. difficile epi- demic 9 included a population that would benefit the most from first-line FMT including the oldest mean age 82 years the most sick severe patients were not excluded in contrast to many published studies and those with the most comorbiditiesbased on a high Charlson score and high prevalence rates of bedridden and dementia in our population 7 the outcome was critical mortality from any cause and not questionable no surrogate 8 the risk-benefit ratio was high and 9 the cost use of resources for society was quite reasonable as the procedure was already routinely performed in the frequent indications currently accepted recurrence.

Effects of fecal microbiota transplantation FMT on Clostridium difficile infection CDI survival according to severity.

Patient information was extracted from the hospital comput- erized database DIM departement d'information medicale using the A047 code pseudomembranous colitis with col- itis andor C. difficile in primary or secondary diagnosis and data were collected using a standardized questionnaire includ- ing age sex comorbidities Charlson score 35 Clostridium difficile episodes and interventions Supplementary Data 2.

Clostridium difficile associated risk of death score CARDS a novel severity score to predict mortality among hospitalised patients with C. difficile infection.

Administration of spores of nontoxigenic Clostridium difficile strain M3 for prevention of recurrent C. difficile infection a randomized clinical trial.

As previously reported 37 CDI was deemed the attributable cause of death if we judged that the patient would not have died within 3 months in the absence of CDI.

