there was no significant difference in crypt depth of jejunum among treatments p  0.05 table 2.dietary nano-zno activated the expression of cu-zn sod gpx1 zo-1 occludin and mt in the jejunal tissuescompared with the control group dietary supplementation with nano-zno and traditional zno significantly increased the relative mrna expressions of cu-zn sod gpx1 zo-1 and occludin in jejunum p  0.05. moreover their expressions in nano-zno treatment were lower than those in traditional zno treatment p 0.05. in addition the relative mt mrna expression by5.4 or 270.4 fold was increased after supplementing nano- zno and traditional zno and interestingly the relative mrna expression of mt in the traditional zno group was dramatically higher than that in other two groups p  0.05 figure 1b-1c.dietary nano-zno improved the expression of inflammatory cytokines in the jejunal and ileal tissuescompared with the control the relative mrna expression of cdk4 was elevated but the relative mrna expression of caspase3 was reduced by nano-zno and traditional zno significantly p  0.01. while the mrna expression of cdk4 in the nano-zno treatment was significantly lower than that in the traditional zno group p  0.05. the mrna expression of igf-1 was increased by traditional zno compared with the control group p  0.05 but no significant differences were found in mrna expression of igf-1 between traditional zno and nano- zno treatments p  0.05 figure 1d.dietary supplementation with nano-zno and traditional zno significantly decreased the relative mrna expression of ifn-g il-1b tnf-a and nf-kb in comparison to control animals p  0.01. the mrna expression of ifn-g tnf-a and nf-kb did not differ between nano-zno and traditional zno treatments p 0.05 while as to il-1b nano-zno was significantly higher than the traditional zno treatment p  0.01. when detected the expression of il-6 the results showed that this in the traditional zno group was significantly lower than the control group p  0.01 but did not differ from the nano-zno treatment p  0.05. no significant difference was found in tgf-b among treatments p  0.05 figure 1e.dietary nano-zno altered the richness and diversity of bacterial community in the ileal cecal and colonic contentsafter size filtering quality control and chimera removal a total of 690231 696240 and 748887 valid sequences in the ileal cecal and colonic contents were obtained respectively.

herein feed conversion efficiency in the traditional zno treatment was significantly increased when compared with the control group which demonstrated that the pharmacological zno supplementation increased the feed efficiency during the post-weaning d 0-10 or d 0-28 14. no significant differences in feed conversion efficiency between nano-zno group and traditional zno group were found which indicated that nano-zno with a dose of 600 mg znkg might have a similar effect to traditional zno in the concentration of 2000 mg znkg on improving feed efficiency in weaning piglets during post-weaning d 0-14. incidence of diarrhea was reduced by treating with nano-zno and traditional zno while piglets fed nano-zno had a higher diarrhea incidence than piglets fed with traditional zno in this study.

our research revealed that the positive function of nano- zno might be accomplished by improving intestinal morphology regulating the expressions of antioxidant enzymes tight junction proteins growth marker genes and inflammatory cytokines and modulating bacterial community.resultsdietary nano-zno improved growth performance and jejunal morphology of weaned pigletsfeedgain of weaning piglets in traditional zno treatment was significantly lower than that in the control group p  0.05 but did not differ from that in the nano- zno treatment p  0.05. incidence of diarrhea was alleviated by the addition of nano-zno and traditional zno when compared with the control group p  0.01 while piglets in nano-zno treatment had higher diarrhea incidence than piglets in traditional zno group p  0.05. no significant differences were found in average daily gain and average feed intake among treatments p  0.05 table 1.jejunal villus height and the ratio of villus height to crypt depth of weaning piglets fed traditional zno were significantly higher than piglets in the control group p  0.05 but showed no significant difference when compared with nano-zno treatment p  0.05 figure 1a.

furthermore it has been reported that nano-zno had a wide range of antibacterial activities12 that may involve in both the zinc toxicity from dissolved zn ii ions 31 and the production of reactive oxygen species caused by undissolved nano-zno in gastrointestinal tract 13 27. however the antibacterial effect of nano-zno depends on dose size shape and other factors 31. therefore both nano-zno and traditional zno in this study can enrich the bacterial richness and diversity which may be beneficial to the construction of a more stable intestinal micro-ecosystem 32.in cecum the bacterial richness was decreased by treating with nano-zno and traditional zno while the bacterial diversity was only reduced in traditional zno group which was in agreement with a previous study 22. moreover it also has been investigated that the antibacterial effect of nano-zno is dosage- and time-dependent 33. traditional zno supplementation 2000 mg znkg in our study significantly increased the relative abundances of firmicues lactobacillaceae and lactobacillus and decreased lachnospiraceae ruminococcaceae erysipelotrichaceae and ruminococcus.

compared with the control group the relative abundance of bulleidia was significantly reduced by adding traditional zno p  0.05. however the percent between 22.01-41.43 of colonic bacterial community was unidentified at genus level.discussiondietary pharmacological dose of traditional zno 2000-3000 mg znkg can promote growth and alleviate diarrhea increase intestinal barrier function and alter intestinal microbiota composition in weaning piglets 13. however whether nano-zno can improve piglet health as an alternative to pharmacological dose of traditional zno is still unknown.

values are means - sems n 6. different superscripts within each group mean significant difference p  0.05. control corn-soybean meal basal diet cu-zn sod cu-zn superoxide dismutase gpx1 glutathione peroxidase 1 mt metallothionein igf-1 insulin-like growth factor 1 nano-zno corn- soybean meal basal diet supplemented with 600 mg znkg as nano zinc oxide zno corn-soybean meal basal diet supplemented with 2000 mg znkg from zinc oxide.and traditional zno p  0.01 figure 2b2-2c2 and the otus and chao 1 value showed no significant difference between nano-zno and traditional zno treatments p 0.05. however the shannon index in the traditionalzno treatment was significantly lower than other twotreatments p  0.01 figure 2d2.the pca with unweighted unifrac distances presents discrepancy among samples.

lactobacillaceae was the richest family in the control group but its proportion dropped dramatically from 94.08 to 30.37 and 46.17 after adding nano-zno and traditional zno p  0.01. on the contrary the relative abundances of streptococcaceae and bacillaceae significantly increased from 2.47 to 51.44 and 45.36 and from 0.74 to3.12 and 1.88 respectively p  0.01. in addition the increased abundance of proteobacteria in the nano-zno treatment was mainly due to a significant increase ofhalomonadaceae.at genus level lactobacillus streptococcus bacillus and halomonas were predominant genera of lactobacillaceae streptococcaceae bacillaceae and halomonadaceae respectively and the changed tendencies of these genera were consistent with the tendencies of responding families as nano-zno and traditional zno were added to the basal diet.in the cecal contents firmicutes bacteroidetes proteobacteria tenericutes and actinobacteria were five major phyla of microbiota figure 5a.

more interestingly traditional zno but not nnao-zno could dramatically increase the mrna expression of mt which is consistent with the report that intestinal mucosa cell from pigs fed 2425 or 3000 mg znkg from zno for 14 or 28 d has the greatest concentration or mrna expression of mt 18. mt associated with zinc concentration not only serves as an antioxidant participating in protective stress responses 19 but also serves as a zinc transporter acting in zinc trafficking and zinc donation to apoproteins 20. supplemental traditional zno would increase the relative mrna expression of mt by 270.4 fold while adding nano-zno would only by 5.4 fold which further illustrated that zno nanoparticle was likely absorbed as both the zinc ions and as the intact particulate form by transcytosis 5 13 and that zno nanoparticle could only partly dissolve in gastric fluid in vivo by aggregating together 13. gastrointestinal development of weaning piglets relays on the proliferation and differentiation of enterocytes while the key factors regulating the intestinal development are the expressions of growth marker genes.

therefore dietary supplementation with nano- zno 600 mg znkg may promote enterocyte growth and inhibit enterocyte apoptosis.in addition the mrna expressions of ifn-g il- 1b tnf-a and nf-kb in the ileal tissue significantly decreased after supplementing nano-zno and traditional zno into the basal diet which was similar to previous study 23. it has been reported that traditional zno or nano-zno supplementation both significantly reduced the expression of nf-kb target gene in the porcine epithelial j2 ipec j2 cells or raw 264.7 macrophages 24. the down-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the present of nano-zno indicated that the weaning-induced inflammation was alleviated by nano-zno at a sub- or non-toxic concentration.

this result was in agreement with previous studies that richness and diversity of microbes in ileum were both elevated after adding traditional zno with 2500 mg znkg or 3042 mg znkg 26-27. in the control treatment firmicutes lactobacillaceae and lactobacillus dominated bacterial community at phylum family and genus level respectively and their relative abundances were significantly decreased by supplementing nano- zno andor traditional zno.

however feeding with traditional zno 2500 mg zn kg or 2425 mg znkg showed a decline of lactic acid bacteria in cecum 22 while no obvious changes in the abundances of the firmicutes and lactobacillus was observed in the cecal digesta 13. researchers reported that all lactobacillaceae strains possessed the excellently high zinc resistance in vitro except l.amylovorus 32. the decreased relative abundances of lachnospiraceae ruminococcaceae erysipelotrichaceae and ruminococcus might be beneficial to promote growth or alleviate incidence of diarrhea of weaning piglets 34. compared to the control group nano-zno treatment significantly decreased the ruminococcus level while compared with the traditional zno treatment the unclassified bacterial abundance was increased.

it is reported that only 14 of nano-zno could dissolve in gastric fluids 13 and nano- zno had limited solubility in neutral environment 14. in addition nano-zno particles are unstable in suspension of water where they aggregate together and continue to increase size beyond the nanoscale 34. so the limited impact of nano-zno on cecal microbiota showed in our study might result from the low concentrations of nano- zno and zinc ions dissolved from nano-zno.in colon the richness and diversity of bacteria were significantly decreased in nano-zno and traditional zno treatments which was also consistent with a previous study 14. moreover the nano-zno particles have a wide range of antibacterial activities toward various microorganisms 35. dietary supplementation with nano-zno and traditional zno significantly decreased the relative abundances of bacteroidetes prevotellaceae s24-7 prevotella and oscillospira and increased the relative abundances of firmicutes lactobacillaceae and lactobacillus.

the relative abundances of lachnospiraceae and bulledia in the traditional zno treatment were significantly lower than those in the control treatment which might contribute to reduce the diarrhea incidence 37. the rival effect of the lower concentration of nano-zno to pharmacological dose of traditional zno on colonic bacterial compositions may due to the relative- high concentrated zinc concentration in colon content 38. in conclusion dietary supplementation with nano-zno in the concentration of 600 mg znkg was effective in alleviating diarrhea improving mrna expressions of antioxidant enzymes tight junction proteins and growth marker genes in jejunum inhibiting mrna expression of inflammatory cytokines in ileum and regulating ileal and colonic microbiota richness diversity and stability.

this is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the creative commons attribution license 3.0 cc by 3.0 which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.abstractthe present study was carried out to determine whether low dose of zinc oxide nanoparticles nano-zno could serve as a potential substitute of pharmacological dose of traditional zno in weaned piglets.

on day 14 after weaning the piglets fed nano-zno did not differ from those fed traditional zno in growth performance and jejunal morphology while nano-zno treatment could significantly alleviate the incidence of diarrhea p 0.05. in jejunum the mrna expressions of intestinal antioxidant enzymes and tight junction proteins were increased p  0.05 in nano-zno treatment.

