no significant differences in individual scfa content were observed in no bmd versus bmd comparisons figure 3b to i. after treatment fecal scfas and ph were unchanged in each group data not presented.the effect of tgd treatment on bowel movementsto investigate the effect of tgd treatment on bowel movements bowel movements before and after treatment were analyzed.

transglucosidase treatment significantly improved bowel movements compared with placebo treatment 46.2 95 con- fidence interval 19.2-74.9 vs. 0 95 confidence interval 0-33.6 p  0.05. this effect was not observed in patients without bowel movement disorder.conclusion patients with bowel movement disorder suffer from gut dysbiosis.

asterisks denote p  0.05 vs. control.bmd bms-c th bms-m th bms-d bms-c constipation bms-m constipation and diarrhea bms-d diarrheaimprovement ratio was 6.3 116 95 confidence interval ci 0.2-30.2 43.8 716 95 ci19.8-70.1 and 29.4 517 95 ci 10.3-56.0in the placebo tgd300 and tgd900 groups respect- ively and there was a marginal difference in the bowel movement improvement ratio in the tgd-treated group compared with the placebo group p 0.053. considering the bowel movements before tgd treat- ment bowel movement was significantly improved in the bmd group after treatment compared with placebo treatment 46.2 95 ci 14.7-94.7 vs. 0 95ci 0-33.3 p  0.05 figure 4. one patient in the placebo group had constipation and one patient in the tgd900 group had diarrhea.

in tgd900 and placebo groups and that of clostridium cluster xviii in tgd300 group was significantly increased after treat- ment p  0.05.we also analyzed fecal scfa levels and fecal ph to evaluate the effect of tgd treatment on the intestinalenvironment table 2. before the treatment valerate levels in tgd300 and tgd900 groups were signifi- cantly lower than in placebo group p  0.05. following tgd900 therapy fecal acetate and valerate levels were significantly increased while succinate and lactate were significantly reduced p  0.05. total scfas were marginally increased after this treatment p 0.09. formate and valerate levels were signifi- cantly increased after tgd300 treatment however sig- nificant increase of the former was also observed in the placebo group p  0.05.comparison of characteristics of patients with and without bmdthe distribution of clinical characteristics of patients with and without bmd age sex bmi and hba1ctable 3. characteristics and nutrient intake of patients grouped by bowel movement disorder bmd.data are mean - standard deviation sd.bms-c constipation bms-m constipation and diarrhea bms-d diarrhea bmd bms-c th bms-m th bms-d compared with control.banalyzed by x2 test.canalyzed by kruskal-wallis and steel tests.danalyzed by mann-whitney u test.was similar.

56 898-907 authors 2017 reprints and permissions doi journals.sagepub.comhomeuegabstractbackground recent studies have highlighted the relationship between gut microbiota and bowel movements.objective we aimed to evaluate transglucosidase treatment efficacy for bowel movements in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and to clarify the relationship between bowel movements dietary habits gut microbiota and fecal short-chain fatty acids.methods in this randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study 66 patients received placebo or transglucosidase 300 or 900 mgday orally for 12 weeks.

tgd treatment improves metabolic condition of t2dm and affects fecal microbiota that is increases the proportion of bacteroidetes.315 gut dysbiosis in irritable bowel syndrome ibs has been well documented and the improvement of symptoms including altered bowel habit and stool formationfigure 3. fecal short-chain fatty acids scfas in type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm patients with and without bowel movement disorder bmd.

the sample size calculation was based on a pre- vious study29 and based on an alpha of 0.05 with a power of 80. taking into account a 10 drop-out total sample size of 66 patients was randomized.assessment of patient nutrient intaketo evaluate nutrient intake a data-based short food frequency questionnaire10 was used.assessment of bowel movementsbowel movement type was categorized as follows1 bms-c mostly constipation 1 bowel movement per two days need for laxatives because of constipa- tion 2 bms-d mostly diarrhea loose or watery stools or urgency 3 bms-m mixed type constipa- tion and diarrhea and 4 control normal bowel move- ments.

transglucosidase treatment alleviates bowel movement disorder symptoms in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients by increasing fecal acetate level.keywordstransglucosidase type 2 diabetes mellitus bowel movements intestinal microbiota constipation short-chain fatty acidsreceived 25 november 2016 accepted 8 january 2017introductionwe have recently developed a novel strategy employing aspergillus niger transglucosidase tgd to produce oligosaccharides from starch in the human digestive tract.

however the double-blind pla- cebo control treatment improved bowel movements in t2dm patients with bmd suggesting that tgd treat- ment indeed improves the quality of life of t2dm patients when bowel symptoms are concerned.

bmd includes bms-c bms-d and bms-m.before the treatment the study participants answered the following 'do you think you have a con- stipation yes no' after the 12-week treatment the changes in bowel movement were subjectively assessed by the patients patient-reported outcome.

the bowel movementfigure 2. gut microbiota in type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm patients with and without bowel movement disorder bmd.

the partici- pants answered the following 'which of the following best describes your bowel movements compared to before treatment improved not changed worsened'extraction of fecal dnathe fecal samples 20 mg per 200 ml of sterile distilled water were suspended in 800 ml of a solution contain- ing 4 m guanidinium thiocyanate 100 mm tris-hcl ph 9.0 and 40 mm edta.

no significant differences were observed between the three groups concerning bowel movements exercise frequency and nutrient intake profiles table 1.the effect of tgd treatment on fecal microbiota and fecal scfasto investigate the effect of tgd on fecal bacterial com- munities the bacteria from the placebo tgd300 and tgd900 groups were analyzed by t- rflp table 2.figure 1. flow diagram of patients included.

bacteria from clostridium cluster iv clostridium subcluster xiva and clostridium cluster xviii were significantly more abundant in samples from patients with bmd than in control patients p  0.05 figure 2e f and h. compared with con- trol bacteria from the order lactobacillales were sig- nificantly less abundant in bms-c and bms-d group samples and clostridium cluster iv bacteria were sig- nificantly more abundant in bms-c and bms-m groupsamples p  0.05 figure 2b and e. furthermore compared with the control group samples clostridium subcluster xiva bacteria were significantly more abun- dant in bms-d group samples while clostridium clus- ter xviii bacteria were significantly more abundant in bms-c and bms-d groups p  0.05 figure 2f and h. compared with the status quo before the treat- ment no differences in fecal microbiota were observed after treatment within each bowel movement group data not presented.the fecal ph was significantly higher in samples from bmd patients than in control samples p  0.05 figure 3a.furthermore the fecal ph was significantly higher in the bms-m group but not in bms-c and bms-d groups than in the control groups p  0.05 figure 3a.

bowel movements in bms-c and bms-m groups were improved by tgd but not by placebo treatment.

