for a detailed review of studies evaluating the role of the gut microbiota in these patients see the review by gulden et al.microbiota modulation strategieswith the growing recognition of the role of gut micro- biota in health and disease it has become clear that gut microbiota may be a target for improving outcomes in subjects affected by or at risk for certain diseases including t1d.

there will be no effect of this discontinuation on subsequent physician andor institutional medical care.end pointsprimary area under the curve auc of the c-peptide level during 2-hour responses to a mixed meal.secondary fasting c-peptide concentration insulin requirement ukg body mass hba1c interleukins il-1 il-2 il-10 tumour necrosis factor alpha interferon gamma gut permeability anthropometric parameters weight height bmi z-score side effects eg abdominal pain diarrhoea constipa- tion vomiting flatulence occurrence of other autoimmune diseases eg auto- immune thyroid disease coeliac disease acute complications of t1d such as severe hypogly- caemia or ketoacidosisparticipant timelinethe time schedule for enrolment interventions assess- ment and visits for the participants is described in .sample sizethe sample size was calculated based on recommenda- tions on sample size calculation to be used in studies on the effects of new agents on the 2-hour auc of the c-pep- tide in mmtt in newly diagnosed patients with t1d by lachin et al.

the aim of the study is to examine the effects of lactobacillus rhamnosus gg and bifidobacterium lactis bb12 on beta-cell function in children with newly diagnosed t1d.methods and analysis a total of 96 children aged 8 to 17 years with newly diagnosed t1d confirmed by clinical history and the presence of at least onepositive autoantibody will be enrolled in a double-blind randomised placebo-controlled trial in which they will receive l. rhamnosus gg and b. lactis bb12 at a dose of 109 colony-forming units or an identically appearing placebo orally once daily for 6 months.

we also speculate that children who receive l. rhamnosus gg and b. lactis bb12 at the recognition of t1d will have more preserved beta-cell function than children who receive placebo.methods trial designthis study is designed as a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial with allocation of 11. the trial was registered at the clinicatrials.gov nct03032354 prior to the inclusion of the first patient.

gut microbiota in children with type 1 diabetes differs from that in healthy children a case-control study.

recent evidence has demonstrated that dysbiosis defined as imbalances in the composition and function of the gut micro- biota may also be relevant.gut microbiota and tidcurrent studies suggest that the interaction between gut microbiota and the immune system may be a major factor influencing t1d development.

alterations in gut microbiota composition observed in patients with t1d would increase gut permeability.

if so that facili- tates greater exposure to the immune system of dietary antigens and microbiota-derived products which may cause a proinflamma- tory response and stimulate beta-cell autoim- munity in genetically predisposed subjects.compared with healthy controls subjects with t1d exhibit a less diverse and less stable gut microbiota.a low abundance of lactate and butyrate-producing speciesgroele l et al.

it also decreases bacterial trans- port across the gut epithelium.adequate butyrate production is essential for gut integrity and may have a protective effect on the development of anti-islet cell autoantibodies ica.it seems that the diabetic gut is underequipped with bacteria that promote protective immune mechanisms.

effects of lactobacillus rhamnosus gg and bifidobacterium lactis bb12 on beta- cell function in children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes protocol of a randomised controlled triallidia groele hania szajewska agnieszka szypowskato cite groele l szajewska h szypowska a. effects of lactobacillus rhamnosus gg and bifidobacterium lactis bb12 on beta-cell functionin children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes protocol of a randomised controlled trial.

in animals studies using non-obese diabetic nod mice or a rat model showed that the development of t1d can be prevented or delayed through modulation of the intes- tinal microbiota.administration of lactobacillus john- soni n6.2 isolated from biobreeding diabetes-resistant rats delays or inhibits the onset of t1d in biobreeding diabetes-prone rats.

transmission of segmented filamen- tous bacteria to the nod mouse correlates with disease prevention and the upregulation of th17 cells in the intestine.in humans one recent prospective cohort study which was carried out as part of the teddy the envi- ronmental determinants of diabetes in the young study aimed to examine the association between early probiotic exposure and islet autoimmunity positive antibodies to insulin glutamic acid decarboxylase gad or insulinoma antigen 2 on at least two consecutive visits in children genetically at increased risk for t1d.

this study found that early ie during the first 27 days of life administrationof probiotics mainly lactobacillus and bifidobacterium given either as a supplement or in infant formula supple- mented with probiotics may be associated with a reduced risk of islet autoimmunity hr 0.66 95 ci 0.46 to 0.94 especially in children with the highest-risk human leuko- cyte antigen hla genotype of dr34 hr 0.4 95 ci0.21 to 0.74. of note no reduction was seen in children with moderately higher-risk genotypes hr 0.97 95 cito 1.54.further studies to confirm this association are needed.l rhamnosus gg and bifidobacterium lactis bb12these are among the world's best-studied probiotics.

in the usa both have received a generally recognised as safe status by the food and drug administration.in europe both have been granted qualified presumption of safety status by the european food safety authori- ty--a status granted on a species level.previous studies found that supplementation with l. rhamnosus gg and b. lactis bb12 improved blood glucose control in normogly- caemic pregnant women and reduced the frequency of gestational diabetes mellitusthus suggesting a role for these probiotics in glucose control.trial objectives and hypothesisthe aim of the study is to examine the effects of l. rhamnosus gg and b. lactis bb12 on beta-cell function in children with newly diagnosed t1d.

both are tertiary care hospitals that provide annually diabetes care to more than 200 children with newly recognised t1d.

