the first would certainly come from the fact that the results pre- sented in the article are not those from a double-blind multicenter controlled pro- spective trial that would meet all the cri- teria usually requested for a pivotal study that would lead an agency--say the usprocess has been completed according to the highly respected standards of clinical infectious diseases.

clostridium difficile treatment transplantation fecal outcome.in this issue of clinical infectious diseases marie hocquart from the group of matthieu million from a single group of researchers from marseilles university hospitals france present results sug- gesting that early use of fecal microbiota transplantation fmt might be high- ly beneficial for patients with severe clostridium difficile infection cdi 1. indeed mortality at 3 months an unques- tionable outcome marker was 12.1 in the transplant group vs 42.2 in the anti- biotic group.

so my very strong suggestion would be that at minimum a sample from all transplantations should be kept frozen and that all patients who receive a fecal transplant under the circumstancesdescribed here enter a national register and benefit from long-term follow-up.another concern is that the idea that the cure of a disease as deadly as severe cdi is at hand would sterilize further research in the field.

clinical infectious diseases editoria l comment ar y too early to recommend early fecal microbiota transplantation in patients with severe clostridium difficile infection or not too earlyantoine andremontuniversity paris-diderot medical school paris francesee the major article by hocquart et al on pages 645-50.keywords.

these markers are thoseproposed by experts from the european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases a group the authors of the current article were not part of which certainly increases the strength of their results.

the problem is that the fecal microbiota is a highly complex material and we do food and drug administration or thenot know exactly what is beneficial in itsreceived 9 august 2017 editorial decision 14 august 2017accepted 23 august 2017 published online august 24 2017. correspondence a. andremont 4 villa rose 92240malakoff 92240 france antoine.andremontgmail.com.clinical infectious diseasesr 2018665651-2c the authors 2017. published by oxford university press for the infectious diseases society of america.

that is around an 80 re- duction moreover the number of patients with severe disease who would need to be treated to save one life at 3 months was as low as 2. thus the term life-saving proce- dure can probably be used in that setting.

if there will always be arguments for more research and for better data wait- ing for more data is often an implicit deci- sion not to act or to act on the basis of past practice rather than on the best available evidence 2. i believe that this might be exactly where we stand here.so is this to say that performing fmt in patients with severe cdi should be accepted as a standard practice without further research or discussion certainly not in my opinion.

however because the tests requested by these guidelineseditorial commentary  cid 201866 1 march  651are numerous the costs are high and the delay to obtain the results might but certainly should not lead providers to perform fmt with transplantations less well characterized.

temptation is therefore great to propose fmt to all patients with severe cdi us- ing as a decision marker the severity cri- teria used here.

given the high number of deaths current- ly attributed to cdi worldwide the public health benefit could be huge.so what now is there room for contro- versy will doctors who do not propose fmt for severe cdi be sued by attorneys defending families that suffer the loss of a patient who died in these circum- stances can we imagine what would be the arguments of the defenders indeed there are some.

also the development of vaccines andor methods for protecting the micro- biota during treatments is fully necessary to prevent cdi in the many patients for whom antibiotics are and will remain miracle drugs.notepotential conflicts of interest.

not very often do we see such impressive therapeutic results using a relatively sim- ple not too invasive procedure and one with few apparent immediate side effects.

this immediate use into practice is indeed the conclusion of their article which states that the results strongly sug- gest that early fmt should be proposed as a 'first-line' treatment for severe cdi.

certainly the authors have made great efforts in the discussion section to overcome this flaw.

