this is not surprising given the route of administration and mechanism of action of clodronate 41 42 48 macrophages in the intestinal tissue would likely be more available to uptake the liposomes than those deep within the tumor tissue and clodronate does not result in complete depletion of macrophages and there is evidence to suggest that tams may lose their phagocytic activity as tumorigenesis progresses 12. to further charac- terize the effects of clodronate on macrophages in the colon and tumor microenvironment we examined m1 and m2 mac- rophage-associated markers.

however given the fact that tumorigenesis was decreased with clodronate and that we j. e. bader r. t. enos k. t. velazquez and e. a. murphy unpublished observations and others 5 have found a decrease in food consumption andor body weight with clodronate macrophage depletion 5 24 we suggest that this is an effect of clodronate treatment independent of the tumorigenesis out- comes.

oe mice in the vehicle veh group  mice in the clodronate cld group.we used clodronate liposomes to deplete macrophages dur- ing the final cycle of dss i.e.

despite the fact that these findings should be validated using facs we conclude that clodronate administration has bene- ficial effects on tumorigenesis and that even larger effects may be possible if m2 macrophages can be selectively depleted in the tumor microenvironment.given the significant effects of clodronate administration oncytokines in the colon tissue we next examined downstream transcription factors in the normal tissue.

clodronate administration resulted in a significant reduction in overall polyp number p  0.001. when polyps were stratified by size we found a reduction in large polyps 1 mm p  0.012 and a slight but nonsignif- icant reduction in small polyps 1 mm p  0.100 following clodronate treatment fig.

clodronate liposomes decreased tumor number by 36 and specif- ically large 1 mm tumors by 36 p  0.05. this was consistent with a decrease in gene expression of emr1 in the colon tissue and polyp tissue as well as expression of select markers associated with m1 il-6 and m2 macrophages il-13 il-10 tgff3 ccl17 in the colon tissue p  0.05. similarly there was a decrease in stat3 and p38 mapk and erk signaling in colon tissue.

to deplete macrophages we administered a 200-ul ip injection 1 mg of clodronate-encapsulated liposomes clodronate liposomes amster- dam the netherlands beginning at week 6.5 and continuing twice weekly until euthanasia cld.

our data indicate that clodronate administration a well-established method to deplete macrophages 41 42 48 during late-stage tumorigenesis results in a decrease in polyp number reduced expression of select macrophage markers diminished activa- tion of transcription factors and alterations in the gut micro- biota profile.g26immune-microbiota interactions in crcfig.

given this it is certainly possible that the reduced tumorigenesis associated with clodronate treatment could be explained or partially explained by the reduction in food intake and subsequent decrease in body weight as there is evidence that caloric restriction reduces tumorigenesis 17. nonetheless we believe that our findings set the stage for the development of strategies to target macrophages to treat crc.

although clodronate liposomes are a well-established method of macrophage depletion in the colon 41 42 48 we wanted to confirm successful depletion in our hands and further establish whether it was effective at depleting macrophages in the tumor microenvironment.

al- though we and others have successfully used clodronate to deplete macrophages the possibility of also impacting den- dritic cells has been reported 42 and these cells can influence crc 25. thus we cannot rule out a role for dendritic cells in this model.

expert opin biol ther 17 791 2017. doi.bu l gao m qu s liu d. intraperitoneal injection of clodronate liposomes eliminates visceral adipose macrophages and blocks high-fat diet-induced weight gain and development of insulin resistance.

am j physiol gastrointest liver physiol 314 g22-g31 2018. first published october 12 2017 doi10.1152ajpgi.00229.2017.research article mechanisms of host and microbiome interactionsmacrophage depletion using clodronate liposomes decreases tumorigenesis and alters gut microbiota in the aomdss mouse model of colon cancerjackie e. bader1 reilly t. enos1 kandy t. velazquez12 meredith s. carson1 mitzi nagarkatti1 prakash s. nagarkatti1 ioulia chatzistamou1 j. mark davis2 james a. carson24 cory m. robinson3 and e. angela murphy141department of pathology microbiology and immunology school of medicine university of south carolina columbia south carolina 2department of exercise science school of public health university of south carolina columbia south carolina 3department of microbiology immunology and cell biology school of medicine west virginia university morgantown west virginia and 4center for colon cancer research university of south carolina columbiasouth carolinasubmitted 25 july 2017 accepted in final form 12 september 2017bader je enos rt velazquez kt carson ms nagarkatti m nagarkatti ps chatzistamou i davis jm carson ja robinson cm murphy ea.

macrophage depletion using clodronate liposomes decreases tumorigenesis and alters gut microbiota in the aomdss mouse model of colon cancer.

although historically it was thought that macrophages possess anti-tumor functions it is now generally accepted that tumor-associated macrophages tams are conditioned by the tumor environment and exert protumoral functions.

