these sequence reads clustered into 39 543 otus using qiime's closed-reference processing 518 246 otus from de novo clustering using mothur not filtered for otu abun- dances and 83 908 sotus using deblur with a filtering of at least 25 reads total per sotu.

sponge symbionts perform a wide range of functional roles in- cluding vitamin synthesis production of bioactive compounds and biochemical transformations of nutrients or waste products 7-9. the diversity of microorganisms associated with sponges has been the subject of intense study the search of sponge microbial diversity returned 348 publications in the scopus database .

where samples were clustered using unweighted unifrac data  with a principal coordinates analysis and vi- sualization in emperor  based on their origins from sponges seawater or kelps .availability and requirementsproject name the sponge microbiome projectproject home page  operating systems unix programming language python and rother requirements python v. 2.7 biopython v. 1.65 python 3.5 r v. 3.2.2 mothur v. 1.37.6 qiime v. 1.9.1 deblurlicense mitany restrictions to use by non-academics noneavailability of supporting dataraw sequence data were deposited in the european nucleotide archive accession number erp020690.

to date 16s rrna gene sequencing studies have largely utilised different extraction and amplification methodologies to target the microbial communities of a limited number of sponge species severely limiting comparative analyses of sponge microbial diversity and structure.

raw sequences total of 1.1 billion sequences were processed and clustered with i a standard protocol using qiime closed-reference picking resulting in 39 543 operational taxonomic units otu at 97 sequence identity ii a de novo clustering using mothur resulting in 518 246 otus and iii a new high-resolution deblur protocol resulting in 83 908 unique bacterial sequences.

total dna was extracted as previ- ously described  and used as templates to amplify and se- quence the v4 region of the 16s rrna gene using the standard procedures of the earth microbiome project emp  .processing of sequencing dataclustering using the emp standard protocols in qiimeraw sequences were demultiplexed and quality controlled fol- lowing the recommendations of bokulich et al.

taxonomy assignments and the phylogenetic tree information were taken from the centroids of the refer- ence sequence clusters contained in the greengenes reference database greengenes rridscr 002830. this closed-reference analysis allows for cross-dataset comparisons and direct com- parison with the tens of thousands of other samples processed in the emp and available via the qiita database .clustering using mothurquality-filtered demultiplexed fastq files were also processed using mothur v. 1.37.6 mothur rridscr 011947  and python v. 2.7 python programming language rridscr 008394 custom scripts with modifications from previously estab- lished protocols .

assessing the complex sponge microbiota core variable and species-specific bacterial com- munities in marine sponges.

gigascience 6 2017 1-7doi 10.1093gigasciencegix077advance access publication date 16 august 2017 data notedata note the sponge microbiome projectlucas moitinho-silva shaun nielsen amnon amir antonio gonzalez gail l. ackermann carlo cerrano carmen astudillo-garciacole easson detmer sipkema fang liu georg steinertgiorgos kotoulas grace p. mccormack guofang feng james j. bell jan vicente johannes r. bjo rk jose m. montoya julie b. olson julie reveillaud laura steindler mari-carmen pinedamaria v. marra micha ilan michael w. taylor paraskevi polymenakou patrick m. erwin peter j. schupp rachel l. simister rob knight robert w. thacker rodrigo costa russell t. hillsusanna lopez-legentil thanos dailianis timothy ravasiute hentschel zhiyong li nicole s. websterand torsten thomas1centre for marine bio-innovation and school of biological earth and environmental sciences the university of new south wales sydney 2052 australia 2department of pediatrics university of california - san diego la jolla ca 92093 usa 3department of life and environmental sciences polytechnic university of marche ancona 60131 italy 4school of biological sciences university of auckland auckland new zealand 5halmos college of natural sciences and oceanography nova southeastern university dania beach fl 33004 usa 6wageningen university laboratory of microbiology stippeneng 4 6708 we wageningen the netherlands 7state key laboratory of microbial metabolism and school of life sciences and biotechnology shanghai jiao tong university shanghai 200240 p.r.

here we provide an extensive and standardised dataset that will facilitate sponge microbiome comparisons across large spatial temporal and environmental scales.

this dataset incorporates at least 268 different sponge species including several yet unidentified taxa.

however 2 recent studies incorporating a large number of sponge microbiomes 30   revealed the potential of large- scale standardised high-throughput sequencing for gaining insights into the diversity and structure of sponge-associated microbial communities.

a total of 3569 sponge specimens were collected representing at least 268 species including several yet unidentified taxa here- after collectively referred to as species supplementary table s1.

all analysis is performed on a randomly subsampled 5000 readssample table.bcfigure 2 microbial taxonomic profile of marine sponge samples processed with mothur.

in terms of taxonomic diver- sity most mothur otus were assigned to the phylum proteobac- teria although more than 60 different microbial phyla were re- covered from the marine sponge samples according to silva n  63 and greengenes classifications n  72 fig.

