c control pt passive treatment at active treatment wac non-template control.were increasing in the other samples db and pr fig.

passive treatment had reducing az tf and pr and increasing db effects whereas active treatment showed reducing effects in all samples.

a total of 6 otus were increased by active treatment and 14 otus by passive treatment.

while passive treatment showed a reduced efficacy active treatment was shown to substantially decrease the total number of bacteria in all samples with reduction rates up to 99.6. this is most likely due to the higher pyrazine concentrations in the headspace of the containers due to the enhanced volatilization.

openreceived 29 june 2017accepted 25 september 2017 published xx xx xxxxreplacing conventional decontamination of hatching eggs with a natural defense strategy based on antimicrobial volatile pyrazinespeter kusstatscher12 tomislav cernava 12 stefan liebminger3  gabriele berg 2the treatment of hatching eggs relies on classic yet environmentally harmful decontamination methods such as formaldehyde fumigation.

while active evaporation was highly efficient in all experiments passive treatment showed reducing effects in two of four tested groups only.

this treatment ensures a high efficiency in the reduction of potentially pathogenic microorganisms in industrial-scale hatcheries.

the efficiency of the treatment was evaluated using growth dependent as well as independent methods.

the efficacy of two treatment strategies was evaluated using cultivation dependent methods analyzing colony forming units cfus counts fig.

higher treatment efficiency is shown by lower cfu counts indicating a lower microbial load.

whereas passive treatment showed reducing effects in two of four tested groups az and tf.

reduction rates were calculated from the cfu counts to evaluate the treatment efficacy.

passive treatment showed reduction rates from -62.2 tf to -57.4 az.

in contrast active treatment always led to reduced viability in the range between -93.1 az and -99.6 db.rt qpcr-quantification analyzing gene copy numbers in dna extracts from the samples confirmed theeffects shown in cultivation dependent methods fig.

however no global correlation of treatment and changes in otu abundance was found on order level.

