a deeper understanding of how gut microbiota dysbiosis contributes to the pathophysiology of obesity and diabetes might provide a novel therapeu- tic approach for diabetes and some clues to overcome the difficulties in diabetes treatment.acknowledgmentsthis work was supported by scientific research grants from the ministry of education culture sports science and technology of japan.

short- chain fatty acids and secondary bile acids lithocholic acid and deoxycholic acid are involved in stimulating glp-1 secre- tion from enteroendocrine l-cells.in a recent study grasset et al.3 showed that gut microbiota dysbiosis caused glp-1 resistance in two types ofand hampered glp-1-induced nitric oxide no production through a pattern recognition receptor-dependent mecha- nism hence preventing activation of the gut-brain-periphery axis for control of insulin secretion and gastric emptying figure 1. these results provide new insight into the role of the gut microbiota in maintaining normal metabolic condi- tions by regulating glp-1 biology.one of the remarkable findings of the study was that glp-1 unresponsiveness was far more severe in lean diabetic mice fed a high-fat carbohydrate-free diet hfd than in obese diabetic mice fed a high-carbohydrate hfd.

journal of diabetes investigation published by asian association for the study of diabetes aasd and john wiley  sons australia ltdthis is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited and is not used for commercial purposes.figure 1  glucagon-like peptide-1 glp-1 resistance caused by gut microbiota dysbiosis.

in contrast energy intake in vagotomized mice and cisplatin-treated mice was comparable with that in control mice showing that insulin secretion and gastric emptying inhibition in response toglp-1 are tightly dependent on a func- tional gut-brain-periphery axis whereas food intake regulation is not.

several studies reported a marked reduction in postprandial plasma glp-1 levels in type 2 diabetes patients compared with healthy individuals sug- gesting that a lower level of glp-1 secre- tion might contribute to the impaired incretin effect in type 2 diabetes.

in any case supraphysiological doses of glp-1 are effective in type 2 diabetes patients thus glp-1 receptor glp-1r agonism might represent an attractive pharmaco- logical strategy for diabetes treatment.

journal of diabetes investigation published by aasd and john wiley  sons australia ltdj diabetes investig vol.

shiratori pharmaceutical co. ltd. ono pharma- ceutical co. ltd. jt pfizer nippon boehringer ingelheim co. ltd. sanwa kagaku kenkyusho co. ltd. kissei pharmaceutical co. ltd. astrazeneca and the japan diabetes foundation.disclosurethe authors declare no conflict of interest.shunsuke yamane nobuya inagakidepartment of diabetes endocrinology and nutrition graduate school of medicine kyoto university kyoto japanreferencescalanna s christensen m holst jj et al.

they clearly showed that the dysbiosis reduced expression of glp- 1r and neuronal nitric oxide synthase nnos in the enteric nervous systemdiabetic mice is not necessarily recapitu- lated in human diabetes.in a previous report it was shown that long-termhfdintakecauseda262j diabetes investig vol.

thesefindings raise the intriguing possibility that l-arginine supplementation might benefit glucose tolerance by improving both the postprandial glp-1 response and glp-1 sensitivity in type 2 diabetes patients.gut microbiota is attracting attention as a potential target for therapeutic intervention.

venn analyses of pathway modules showed that there were 25 common pathways enriched in both the high-carbohydrate hfd-fed and hfd-fed groups and 19 pathway mod- ules uniquely enriched in the hfd-fed mice compared with the high-carbohy- drate hfd-fed mice.

furthermore it should be noted that the dysbiosis observed in hfd-fed mice was possibly specific to the extreme meal composition applied in that study thus the severe high-fat diet-fed mice with impaired glu-glp-1 resistance observed in hfd-fedcorresponding author.

however the specific mechanism by which gut microbiota dysbiosis in hfd-fed mice reduces glp-1r expres- sion in the enteric nervous system remains to be elucidated.

grasset et al.3 showed that gut microbiota dysbiosis in hfd-fed mice is responsible for the loss of enteric neurons impaired no production and subsequent glp-1 resistance.

a specific gut microbiota dysbiosis of type 2 diabetic mice induces glp-1 resistancethrough an enteric no-dependent and gut-brain axis mechanism.

