After continuous administration of A. muciniphila Firmicutes abundance substantially increased 40 in group Akk 25 in group Control P  0.05 and the Bacteroidetes proportion decreased 47 in group Akk 66 in group Control P  0.05.

However studies on the relationship between microbiota and immune-mediated liver injury are rare.Concanavalin A Con A injection is used to establish a liver injury model resembling autoimmune liver diseases and virus hepatitis which is characterized by T cell-mediated hepatocellular death and inflammatory infiltration   .

Percentage of apoptotic cells in the liver was significantly lower in group Akk n  7-8 per group.

Samples blood liver ileum colon were assessed for liver injury systemic inflammation and intestinal barrier function.

However it is unclear whether increasing functional autochthonous microbes can change liver susceptibility and improve liver injury.Akkermansia muciniphila is a Gram-negative anaerobic bacterium and the only isolated representative of the Verrucomicrobia phylum  .

Blood tissue liver ileum colon and cecal content were collected.Transaminase Activity and Endotoxin AssaySerum alanine aminotransferase ALT and aspartate transaminase AST levels were measured to evaluate liver function using a standard clinical automated analyzer SRL Tokyo Japan.

Elevated IFN-g can bind to IFNGR and inhibit transcription of Bcl-2 Bcl-2 is considered to be a potent anti-apoptosis factor and has beneficial effects on Con A-activated hepatocyte death  .Multiple studies have examined the increased intestinal permeability and bacterial translocation in chronic liver diseases       while its role in T cell-mediated liver injury is unclear.

The significantly decreased score by modified HAI in the Akk group indicated reduced liver damage .A.

Consistent with the serum results IFN-g expression in the liver was substantially reduced in group Akk while TNF-a expression was not significantly influenced .A.

The LachnospiraceaeUCG-001 population prominently abundant in group Akk likewise reflected the severity of liver damage as indicated by ALT and AST levels as r  -0.57 and-0.54 respectively P  0.05.

