were found to be characteristic in samples treated with ao g-test p  0.01 while p. fragi and psychrobacter were found to be characteristic in the untreated control samples p  0.01. the co-table 1viable counts of the different meat spoilage microbial groups and ph on the beefsteak surfaces treated with aqueous ozone ao electrolyzed water ew water w and the untreated control c. samplings were performed before the treatments day 0 and during storage of vacuum-packed beefsteaks at 4 degc for 15 days.

oligotypes p1 p13 p18 p2 p30 p4 p7 p8 and p9 were associated with ew treated meat p11 and p26 were associated with the ao treatment and p22 p24 and p3 were associated with the control samples p  0.05. the relative abundance of the oligotypes calculated in relation to the total abun- dance of p. fragi resulted to be very fragmented with the highestpercentage of abundance being shown by the p1 oligotype 5.7 on average for all the samples and the lowest being observed for the p20oligotype with 1.8 of abundance supplementary table 3.when the correlation between p. fragi oligotype abundance and voc profiles was plotted  it was possible to observe a cluster of oligotypes p23 p28 p16 p32 p2 p12 p20 and p22 that were closely correlated with the aldehydes the primary and secondary alcohols and the acetoin.

however the limiting factors for applying ao and ew to raw beef re- main undoubtedly their concentrations and exposure times which were here chosen on the basis of the acceptability of the color of the meat after treatments and considering the effectiveness of treatments per- formed by spraying ao   and ew   on different meats andseafood products.6-methyl-5-heptene-2-on benzaldehyde ethanol-2-butoxy 1-hexanolethanol acetone 2-octen-1-ol 1-octen-3-ol2.3-octanedione 2-nonenal heptanal 2-octenal hexanalnonanal octanal 1-pentanol 1-penten-3-ol 2-penten-1-ol 1-octanol furan-2-pentyl acetoinacetic acid ethyl acetate nonanoic acid octanoic acid ethyl lactate hexanoic acid1-butanol-3-methyl butyrolactone butanoic acidfig.

despiteenterobacteriaceae having been reported as being particularly importantduring the spoilage process of vp meat   in the present experiment their relative abundance has been found to be very low and limited to a few taxa as previously reported for the potentially active microbiota of vp beefburgers  .the cia which correlated the voc and otu abundances apart from confirming the microbiological dynamics has also highlighted a segregation of the samples regardless of the ao and ew treatments.

this approach may result in a more reliable correlation between taxa and volatile compounds related to meat spoilage  .therefore the aim of this work was to investigate the effect of ao and ew treatments on the complexity and dynamics of the potential active microbiota of beefsteaks and their associated volatilome during storage at 4 degc and in vacuum packaging conditions.materials and methodstreatments with aqueous ao ozone and electrolyzed water ewthe studied steaks weighing about 200 g each were obtained from three different batches of tender boneless beef 24 h after slaughtering.

otus that show the higher entropy were chosen to compute the oligotypes -c option 8 9 12 122 131 133136 137 217 233 253 258 268 270 279 287 297 298 299 340457 458. in order to minimize the noise each oligotype was required to appear in at least 5 samples -s option to occur in  1.0 of the reads for at least one sample and to represent a minimum of 200 reads -m option in all the combined samples .

the analysis revealed a significant relationship between microbiota composition and vocs rv coefficient  0.63 monte carlo p  0.001. the first horizontal component accounted for 84.5 of the variance and a second vertical component accounted for another 9.8. clustering the samples according to a the time b the batch and c the treatments a clear separation of the samples was observed on the basis of the storage time and also although to a lesser extent of the origin of the batch .intra-species oligotype analysisthe oligotype analysis was performed on the main otus observed but only with p. fragi we found a significant shannon entropy level able to detect sub-otu or oligotype.

in this study which has had the aim of extending the shelf life of beefsteaks pilot-scale treatments were carried out with aqueous ozone ao and electrolyzed water ew before vacuum packaging vp.

the development of the potentially active microbiota and the associated volatilome were followed over 15 days of storage under refrigerated conditions 4 degc in order to define the potential long- term effects of the treatments and storage condition on microbiota.the targeted rna-based amplicon sequencing identified pseudomonas fragi as the most frequent species before and after the treatments with ao and ew as well as in the untreated control.

ao and ew have long been known to be detrimental to the bacterial cells that result from the de- structive oxidation of membrane-bound respiratory enzymes and lipids the perturbation of cellular electrical charge maintenance proteins and peptidoglycan in spore coats and virus capsids  .

however the studies carried out so far on beef sprayed with ao andor ew have been limited to observing the microbial reduction after treatment or the decontami- nating effect toward deliberately introduced pathogens without con- sidering the complex dynamics of spoilage microbiota and the asso- ciated volatilome that may develop after the treatments and during storage.

so far the treatment of other food has also followed similar approaches with attention being focused only on the short term effect of ao and ew .

each batch of beefsteaks was divided equally into four parts 7 beef- steaks per part and treated with ew electrolyzed water ao aqu- eous ozone and w water while a fourth untreated part was used as a control c .

ew was pro- duced from salt kcl diluted in tap water using an eva system 100 de nora s.p.a.. the system produced ew of approximately 4 gl freechlorine ph 9 and 1 residual kcl.

the water treatedsamples w were treated in the same way using the same time frame and the same type of water used to produce ew and ao in order to highlight any effect due to the water itself without oxidizing agents.

