reported the ability of cml to modulate the intestinal microbiota in mouse models of ibd reporting modest effects in 246-trini- trobenzenesulfonic acid tnbs-treated mice and more adam fabisiak 1 department of biochemistry faculty of medicine medical university of lo'dz' mazowiecka 68 92-215 lodz polandprominent effects in dextran sodium sulfate-treated dss mice where cml maintained a ''healthy'' microbiological profile in the group while preventing weight loss.

moreover the study revealed that weight change inversely correlated with food intake by mice consistent with metabolic changes associated with chronic consumption of cml supported by an in vitro study  in which cml impaired basal glucose uptake while enhancing lipid accumulation in adipocytes.although the study helps elucidate how an mrp product influences the gut microbiota in inflamed and healthy mice it has some weaknesses which mostly can be attributed to the methodology employed in the studies on the micro- biota which due to the hundreds of variables measured and complex statistics employed is associated with standard errors of nearly the same magnitude as the means typical of in vivo microbiota studies complicating the reporting inter-individual variations.

dig dis sci 2017 623261-3262 doi 10.1007s10620-017-4796-3modulation of gut microbiota by maillard reaction products in intestinal inflammation are we what we eatadam fabisiak1received 5 october 2017  accepted 7 october 2017  published online 13 october 2017c springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017although ''we are what we eat'' is a popular phrase implying that eating certain foods affects one's health the phrase is currently gaining scientific credence due to the discovery of the linkage between diet the intestinal microbiome and many diseases.

the increasing incidence of ibd correlates with overall global industrialization which in turn corre- lates with the ''western pattern diet'' .in this issue of digestive diseases and sciences jahdali et al.

one thing is for sure a healthy balanced diet is what can be proposed patients with ibd for now.compliance with ethical standardsconflict of interest the author has no conflict of interest to disclose.referenceslee d albenberg l compher c et al.

as an example inflammatory bowel disease ibd possesses an established etiopathogenesis which comprises the genetic susceptibility and environ- mental factors associated with changes in the intestinal microbiota.

seek to correlate the exposure to ne-car- boxymethyl lysine cml an advanced maillard reaction product mrp and the intestinal microbiota in mice in common colitis experimental models.

repeated oral exposure to ne-carboxymethyllysine a maillard reaction product alleviates gut microbiota dysbiosis in colitic mice.

full elucidation of the specific products that need to be added to the diet in order to facilitate intestinal healing would open new therapeutic possibilities.

jahdali et al.

20151481087-1106. doi.aljahdali n gadonna-widehem p delayre-orthez c et al.

20145253-60.lee w-j huey-herng sheu w liu s-h et al.

201474294-306. doi.holik a-k lieder b kretschy n et al.

yet modulation of the microbiota during a clinical trial does not necessarily translate to day-to-day experience.

it is still debatable if mrps have positive or negative impact on health and in particular in ibd subjects.

