the group olp increased 1.95 times in relation to the group control del  olp increased 1.35 times in relation to the group control and amox  olp increased 1.61 times in relation to the group control e.the plasmatic levels of triglyceride tg were high in the groups amox dex amox  olp and dex  olp that increased 1.57 0.91 0.64 and 0.83 times respectively in relation to the group control f.quantifications of the intestinal microbiotain the we show the results referring to the quantification dct of the gut microbiota of the animals in each experimental group.

corresponding author.e-mail address l. vivan.received 13 september 2017 received in revised form 8 october 2017 accepted 12 october 20170882-4010c2017elsevierltd.allrightsreserved.thus the aim of this paper is to check the evaluation of the al- teration of the cholesterol rate triglyceride glycemic and the number of intestinal micro-organisms that may be provoked because of the use of the fish oil and anti-inflammatory dexamethasone and antibiotics amoxicillin contributing to the systemic understanding of these composts continuously.materials and methodsthis paper was submitted to the ethics and research committee of the university of the west of santa catarina and it was approved protocol 242015. the handling and care of the animals followed ethics principles established by the committee of ethics of the university and by the brazilian society of lab animal science sbcalcobea0.experimental groups and treatment of animalsit was used 42 rattus norvegicus albinus and wistar males 76-days old weight between 200 g and 300 g. these animals were divided into six groups with seven animals each group naive ctl that only re- ceived water and ration nuvilabr group fish oil olp that received water ration and they were taken via oral gavage with 1 mlk of fish oil for 30 days dexamethasone dex that received water ration and they were treated with a daily intraperitoneal injection of phosphate of dexamethasone decadronr 10 mgk of weight for 5 days before the day of the euthanasia amoxicillin amox that received water ration and they were treated daily with amoxicillin 500 mgk through gavage for 7 consecutive days before the euthanasia dexamethasone and fish oil dex  olp that received water and ration and they were sup- plemented with fish oil via oral gavage for 30 days receiving 1gk day and they were treated with a daily intraperitoneal injection of phosphate of dexamethasone decadronr 10 mgk of weight for 5 consecutive days before the euthanasia amoxicillin and fish oil amox  olp that received water ration and were supplemented with fish oil via oral gavage for 30 days receiving 1gkday and were treated with amoxicillin 500 mgk of weight.evaluation of the physiologic parameters of the animals treatedit was evaluated the lipid parameters total cholesterol ldl and hdl glycemic glycemia in abstinence tolerance and glucose and resistance to insulin mass of organs ingestion of food mass of body of the animals and the gut microbiota.before the euthanasia it was done the glucose tolerance test in five subjects of each group measuring the separation of a load of glucose via intra-peritoneal.

however the groups dex and olp dex  olp kept their values close to the group ctl with no crucial differences among the groups showing that only the olp or dex or even both interfere directly in the quantity of bacteria in the intestine of these animals.from these results we investigated if there was some alteration in the intestinal microbiota considering only the groups firmicutes or bacteroidetes.

g fasting blood glucose there were significant differences in groups dex e dex  olp.among the groups ctl and olp to the test of tolerance to glucose showing that the group olp was more tolerant to glucose even after a pool of it keeping in steady levels in all the times evaluated d. the test of tolerance to insulin did not show significant differences among the groups.lipid profilethe analysis of the total cholesterol and hdl did not show differ- ences among the groups but the fish oil influenced the ldl and there was an increase in the blood concentration in the groups that had treatment with it.

this study was done with 42 wistar rats divided into 6 groups with 7 animals each naive ctl amoxicillin amox dexamethasone dex fish oil olp associated amoxicillin and fish oil amox  olp association dexamethasone and fish oil dex  olp.

d the glucose test of tolerance between the groups ctl vs. oup showed difference in the levels of blood glucose with the treatment with fish oil e. the cholesterol ldl increased in the treatment with fish oil olp amox  olp and dex  olp.

the values show statistic difference p0.05 among the groups with the control ctl 1 treated with dexamethasone dex 3 treated with fish oil olp 4 treated with dexamethasone and fish oil dex  olp 5. we are presenting the values of the average and standard error do dct.did not have any effect over the results of the mass of the organs when associated with the treatment or only its use.the concentration of ldl plasmatic was increased in the group that had treatment with fish oil confirming that his oily acid interferes in the concentration of ldl in the production vldl by the liver and acts over the receptors of ldl .

there was a decrease statistically important p  0.05 in the weight of the liver in the group amox with 13.07 g and group amox  olp that presented 1271 g the other groups did not present important statistic difference picture 1b.

the animals of the groups amox dex and dex  olp had an important statistic re- duction in the mass of the spleen c with a reduction of 49.3 of the mass in the spleen of the animals of the group dex when compared to the group ctl.

it is possible see in the picture 2a that there was a decrease in the quantity of total bacteria in both groups amox and amox  olp as well as in the group ctl p0.05 and the other experimental groups.

body mass a liver mass b spleen mass c. tolerance to glucose test ctl vs. olp d ldl plasmatic e andtriglyceride f.  influence of the amoxicillin in the treatment p  0.05 n  7  alteration from the use of dexamethasone p  0.05 n  7  shows important difference among the groups due to the effect of the fish oil p  0.05 n  7. a body mass of the animals had a decrease because of the use of dexamethasone dx and dex  olp.

there were no important statistic differences in the analysis of the fat retroperitoneal perigonial and omental.glycemic profilein the glycemia in abstinence the group treated with dex- amethasone dex and dex  olp had higher glycemic rate with115.4 mgdl and 117 mgdl statistically important in relation to the group control that had 101.4 mgdl g. it was done a t testcaption on next pagefig.

we observed that the fish oil did not decrease the effect of the dexamethasone of increasing the blood glucose.the fish oil kept the levels of glucose stable in the group olp whencompared to the group ctl possibly due to the activity in the oily acid n-3 in the structure and function of the plasmatic membrane synthesis of ecosanoids and gene expression of via gluconeogenesis .

f the triglyceride increased in relation to the control in the treatment with amoxicillin and dex- amethasone amox dex amox  olp and dex  olp.

b decreasing of the liver mass in the group treated with amoxicillin amo and amo  olp.

