the discrepancy might be due to low viral dna copies in samples because their ct values range 31.21-37.81 are significantly higher than those in 32 crassphage-positive samples range 17.40-26.17. the results showed that the overall agreement between the two methods was 93.33 238255 and the percentage of crassphage-positive samples 19.22 49255 by real-time pcr was significantly higher than those by conventional pcr 12.55 32255 p  0.05 thus the real-time pcr had higher ability to detect low concentration of crassphage in feces when compared with the conventional pcr amplification.

however because the primer- probe set is designed based on the few available crassphage sequences the primers and probe have a possibility of incompletely matching some unknown crassphage strains in future which might lower the sensitivity and specificity of the assay and iii the longer primers 29 nt and amplicon 173 bp here which are due to the low gc content and variations of orf00018 might lower the amplification efficacy.in conclusion we establish and validate the applicability ofa real-time pcr assay for quantification of a novel bacteriophage crassphage which makes it a very useful tool for investigating the molecular epidemiology dynamics and pathogenicity of crassphage in human diseases.acknowledgmentsthe authors would like to thank dr. yigang tong state key laboratory of pathogen and biosecurity beijing china and dr. yinhui yang state key laboratory of pathogen and biosecurity beijing china for providing bacteriophages and viruses used in cross-reaction experiments.conflicts of interest none.orcidshuiping chenreferencesdutilh be cassman n mcnair k et al.

clinical specimenstwo hundred and fifty-five feces samples from patients with diarrhea n  214 and physical examination population n  41 were collected between august 2014 and april 2015. the feces samples were collected individually and the suspensions of 10 feces in phosphate buffered saline pbs were prepared immediately and centrifuged three times for 20 min at 2500 g. the supernatant dna was extracted using a qiaamp viral rna kit qiagentable 2 primers and probe used for crassphage detectionprimermgbpositions were based on the complete sequence of crassphage genbank accession number nc024711.fam fluorophores carboxyfluorescein mgb minor groove binder.germany according to the manufacturer's instructions.

curve 2 3 10 12 were from four samples of crassphage genotype i. curve 1 4 5 6 7 8 9 11 were from eight samples of crassphage genotype ii.

a total of 32 crassphage-positive samples which was confirmed by the conventional pcr amplification and sequencing were efficiently amplified by the real-time pcrfigure 1 a standard curve of the real-time pcr assay for detecting crassphage.

to compare the real-time pcr method with the conventional pcr method the 32 crassphage-positive samples and 223 crassphage-negative samples were blindly tested using the real-time pcr assay.

two genotypes i and ii determined by phylogenetic analysis based on orf00018 are also firstly described.2 prominent genera in human gut and the bacterial host of crassphage bacteroides might act as a target of crassphage to modulate gut microbiota balance so as to be involved in some diseases like obesity diabetes metabolic disorders hypertension and cancer.3-5to monitor the epidemiology of crassphage a convenient rapid and accurate diagnostic method is urgently needed.

a conventional pcr method was previously established to detect crassphage in patients with diarrhea.2 genome is available1 to detect crassphage with high diversities.2 orf00018 sequences of 27 crassphage strains2 our previous study make it possible to develop such detection method.

itwas indicated that there were no inhibitors copurified in this study.3.3  comparison testingof all 255 feces samples included in this study 32 samples were verified to be crassphage-positive and the remaining 223 samples were verified to be crassphage-negative using conventional pcr amplification and sequencing.

among 32 crassphage-positive samples eight samples were classified as genotype 1 and 24 samples were classified as genotype 2 table .

data was analyzed using the slan analysis software version 8.2. specificity and sensitivity of the real-time pcr assaythe real-time pcr was performed in triplicate with different genotypes of crassphage genotype 1 and genotype 2 to validate the specificity of the reaction.

these microbes have importantmetabolic functions for human via conversion of indigestible dietary substrates and interaction with the immune system.10 imbalance especially the reduction of bacteroides is documented to be associated with some diseases such as crohn's disease colorectal cancer enteric infections.11-13 bacterial host of crassphage.1 human gut it might have ability to modulate gut microbiota balance by a kill-the-winner dynamics.14 assay is of helpful to monitor the molecular epidemiology of crassphage and investigate its pathogenicity in human diseases.currently there is no efficient method to detect crassphage.

however considering the relatively poor detection limit in this study 15.6 copiesml which might be due to the low amplification efficacy there is a possibility of false positive or false negative results for those samples with very low concentration of crassphage.

the aim of this study is to develop a quantitative real-time pcr assay for detecting the novel human gut bacteriophage crassphage.

all primers and probes were targeted to highly conserved regions to establish a universal real-time pcr method to detect crassphage supplementary table s1.

