in a similar trend the percentage of tunel-positive cells increased from 1.65 - 1.52 in control mice to 17.9 - 5.4 in colonized mice indicating that the effect of cscm members was not restricted to germfree mice.

these results indicate that in mice housed under conventional conditions the coloni- zation of the gut with a streptomycin-resistant cscm strain induces an increase in tunel-positive cells and a decrease in proliferative cells in proximal colonic epithelium as observed in germfree associated mice and that the tlr4 pathway is involved in this phenomenon.impact of cscm strains on murine proximal colon organoids.

in contrast when streptomycin-treated spf tlr4-- mice were colonized by gavage with the streptomycin-resistant isolate of a. radioresistens 15 days after colonization the per- centages of proliferative cells were 18.83 - 6.84 in streptomycin-treated tlr4-- mice and 17.03 - 4.25 in streptomycin-treated tlr4-- mice colonized with the a. radiore- sistens streptomycin-resistant strain.

this effect was not observed in germfree mice monoassociated with b. fragilis a commensal gram- negative bacterium that was not identified by 16s rrna metataxonomics as a crypt- associated microbe in conventional mice even if in monocolonized mice b. fragilis could colonize the colonic crypts .

a percentage of edu cells in proximal colonic pc tissue from mice monocolonized with cscm members or with b. fragilis on day 15 with a representative edu staining of proximal colonic tissue from germfree mice as a control ctrl.

c and d ratio of colonospheresand colonoids d during stimulation of organoids derived from wt mice black bars and tlr4-- mice white bars with lps purified from cscm members 1.0 ugml.

as shown in  the set of purified lpss from cscm members did not induce a decrease in the number of colonospheres derived from the crypts of ripk3-- mice in contrast to what was observed in wt mice  indicating that ripk3 depletion could improve the survival rate in lps-stimulated colonic crypt cultures .

b ratio of colonospheres and colonoids during stimulation of organoids derived from wt mice black bars and ripk3-- mice white bars with lps purified from cscm members 1.0 ugml.

on the basis of our recent results demonstrating a nod2-mediated cytoprotective pathway of gut stem cells by bacterial muramyl-dipeptide  we decided to address the possible roles of cscm members on crypt physiology and to characterize these strains and their possible functional impact.given the crypt localization of cscm we hypothesized that cells composing the crypt including lgr5 stem cells located at the bottom of the crypt cells of the transit-amplifying compartment and upper noncycling and terminally differentiating epithelial cells could be affected by cscm.

it was shown that in mice deficient for myd88 the adaptor molecule for toll-like receptor tlr signaling the proliferative state of the colonic crypt was higher than in wild-type mice  indicating a key role of tlrs through recognition of commensal bacteria in the regulation of intestinal epithelial regeneration and homeostasis.

s1b to f. in the case of acinetobacter this particular tropism was found in our previous study  by cohousing germfree mice with conventional mice.

for a control we colonized germfree mice with bacteroides fragilis nctc 9343 a member of the healthy intestinal microbiota that was not found in proximal colonic pc crypts in our previous metataxonomic studies in conventional mice.

s1g as previously shown  indicating that monoassociation of germfree mice did not totally reflect the ecosystem of conventional mice.

dead cells could be observed in the crypts of monocolonized mice after 15 days of colonization to  whereas dead cells were sparsely observed in germfree mice .

in mice monocolonized by s. maltophilia we could indeed observe an increased number of dead cells by tunel staining analysis and after 30 days of colonization the percentage of dead cells remained high in the presence of this species whereas it returned to near the level in germfree control mice after colonization witha.

