how does species di- versity relate to the rates of primary and heterotrophic produc- tivity also how do diel variations in light-energy inputs influ- ence productivity and microbiome diversity the relationships between species richness and productivity have been central and often controversial to the field of ecology mittelbach et al.

in contrast a significant positive relationship p  0.032 be- tween bacterial species richness and irradiance was observed under the acetate treatment highlighting that substrate type and availability also influenced the species diversity of the sys- tem.

is evidence that species diversity of this ecosystem is controlled in part by solar irradiance.diversity-productivity relationshipswe also employed linear models to test if biomass produc- tivity increased or decreased with species richness and even-ness across both kingdoms.

the abundances of otus associated with photoautotrophic taxa still covaried with mea- sures of productivity.discussionthe goal of this study was to interrogate two scientific questionsi how does species diversity relate to the rates of primary and heterotrophic productivity ii how do light energy inputs over diel cycles influence productivity and microbiome diversity the results showed relationships between both bacterial and eukaryotic species richness and evenness with heterotrophicbiomass productivity.

tel 5093716806 e-mail equal contributionone sentence summary multikingdom productivity-diversity relationships in a magnesium sulfate hypersaline mat are controlled by diel light cycling and heterotrophic growth.editor tillmann luedershans c. bernstein abstractbenthic microbial ecosystems are widespread yet knowledge gaps still remain on the relationships between the diversity of species across kingdoms and productivity.

here we ask two fundamental questions i how does species diversity relate to the rates of primary and heterotrophic productivity ii how do diel variations in light-energy inputs influence productivity and microbiome diversity to answer these questions microbial mats from a magnesium sulfate hypersaline lake were used to establish microcosms.

both bacterial and eukaryotic species richness and evenness were related only to the rates of 13c-labeled glucose and acetate biomass incorporation.

mats at the far end of the salinity spectrum harbor especially complex microbiomes with high species and functional diversity ley et al.

it is clear however that the rate of carbon and energy conversion into biomass can strongly influence the number of species in a given habitat waide et al.

in addition pos- itive relationships between energy inputs and species richness have been widely observed across ecosystems giving rise to the 'species energy' theory may  hurlbert and stegen .

we present the results from a study designed to ask if species rich- ness and evenness increased or decreased with either increasing productivity or increasing solar energy available for photosyn- thesis.to perform this investigation we developed microcosms de- rived from the hot lake microbial mat.

this provided estimates for the num- ber and relatedness of both bacterial and eukaryotic taxa and enabled us to compare species diversity over time points corre- sponding to maximum and minimum solar energy inputs over two consecutive diel cycles.

the system is also abundant in anoxygenic phototrophs described by the class anaerolineae which contains abundant otus with family assign- ments as anerolineaceae that have been associated with anaero- bic photoheterotrophic species yamada et al.

species richness and evenness showed significant change p  0.05 table s1 sup- porting information for all substrate treatments with the excep- tion of the bacterial evenness p  0.516 and eukaryotic rich- ness p  0.079 corresponding to the glucose treatments fig.

with the exception of the acetate treatment the eukaryote species richness and evenness did not share the consistent localized maxima at the 24-h solar noon sampling time.

