a 1 untreated--s. litura larvae reared on an artificial lab diet from neonate stage 2 3 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet for 8 days3 5 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 5 dss diet for 8 days 4 3 dss-neonate--s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet from neonate stageb dual dendrogram of top 16 bacterial genera obtained from s. litura midgut across four different treatments.

untreated--s. litura larvae reared on an artificial lab diet from neonate stage 3 dss-8 days-- early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet for 8 days 3 dss-neonate--s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet from neonate stage and 5 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 5 dss diet for 8 days.table 4. phylogenetic affiliation of bacteria isolated by culturable method from midgut of s. litura based on 16s rrna nucleotide sequence.anucleotide sequence of 16s rrna taken from genbank database under their accession numbers.bnucleotide sequence of 16s rrna from this study under their accession numbers.determining cell complexity and fl-1 calcein-am on x-axis for detecting fluorescence emitted by cells were used to estab- lish cytometry gates for discriminating mature red cluster and stem cell blue cluster populations fig.

untreated--s. litura larvae reared on an artificial lab diet from neonate stage 3 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet for 8 days 3 dss-neonate--s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet from neonate stage and 5 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 5 dss diet for 8 days.treatmentshannon.h index mean- standard deviationsimpson 1-d index mean - standard deviationchao-1 mean - standard deviation at 5no.

untreated--s. litura larvae reared on an artificial lab diet from neonate stage 3 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet for 8 days 3 dss-neonate--s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet from neonate stage and 5 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 5 dss diet for 8 days.s.

untreated--s. litura larvae reared on an artificial lab diet from neonate stage 3 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet for 8 days 3 dss-neonate- s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet from neonate stage and 5 dss-8 days--early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 5 dss diet for 8 days.dss-8 days exhibited maximum sdi value when compared to normal table .

litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet for 8 days 5 dss-8 days early third instar s. litura larvae reared on 5 dss diet for 8 days and 3 dss-neonate s. litura larvae reared on 3 dss diet from neonate stage reached the plateau stage indicating that sequencing depth was enough to determine the major bacte- rial genera fig.

a cross section of midgut from pseudomonas monoassociated s. litura larvae fed on dss-supplemented diet x200 hi  2. the arrow black denotes degrading pm arrow red points towards the mature cells falling off into the lumen b cross section of midgut from pseudomonas monoas- sociated s. litura larvae fed on dss-supplemented diet x100 hi  2.5. the arrow shows degrading pm whereas doublearrow denotes proliferating gut epitheliumc cross section of midgut from enterobacter mono associated s. litura larvae reared on dss-supplemented diet x200 hi  1.5. the double arrow denotes proliferatinggut epithelium and partially damaged pm d cross section of midgut from acinetobacter monoassociated s. litura larvae fed on dss-supplemented diet x200 hi  0. the arrows red depict intact pm arrows black denote smooth basement membrane double arrow denotes midgut epithelium and a black line displays clear midgut lumen.

ns  axenic larvae fed on the sterile diet ts  axenic larvae fed on dss-treated sterilediet np  larvae monoassociated with pseudomonas fed on the sterile diet tp  larvae monoassociated with pseudomonas fed on dss-treated sterile diet ne  larvae monoassociated with enterobacter fed on the sterile diet te  larvae monoassociated with enterobacter fed on dss-treated sterile diet na  larvae monoassociated with acinetobacter fed on the sterile diet ta  larvae monoassociated with acinetobacter fed on dss-treated sterile diet ns  non-significant asterisk sign presents the significant p-value of each day--p  0.001 p  0.01 and p  0.05.enterobacter and escherichia begin to rise and perpetuate the gut inflammatory response.

a axenic s. litura larvae did not exhibit increase in the number of stem cells on feeding 5 dss-supplemented diet b axenic s. litura larvae re-colonized with pseudomonas exhibits increase in the number of stem cells on feeding 5 dss-supplemented diet c axenic s.litura larvae re-colonized with enterobacter exhibits increase in the number of stem cells on feeding 5 dss- supplemented diet d axenic s. litura larvae re-colonized with acinetobacter did not exhibit increase in the number of stem cells on feeding 5 dss-supplemented diet.

the tissue sections were stained with haematoxylin and eosin stain.a cross section of midgut from axenic s. litura larvae fed on sterile diet without dss x100 hi  0. the arrow black denotes intact basement membrane arrow red points towards smooth pm double-arrow indicates monolayer of midgut epithelium b cross section of midgut from axenic s. litura larvae fed on sterile diet supplemented with 5 dss x100 hi  0. the morphology of the midgut structure remains intact except slight proliferation at certain regions.

together with the killing curves for control untreated and diet containing 3 dss 3 dss we observed a dose-dependent killing of s. litura larvae by dss.quantization of sulfated polysaccharides in feces ofspodoptera litura larvaestandard curve for dss was plotted.

while population kept on dss diet from neonate stage 3 dss-neonate exhibited maximum deviation bray-curtis value 0.558-586 from other population table .further fisher's exact test with storey fdr multiple test cor- rection demonstrated that bacterial phylotypes enterobacter and escherichia were significantly abundant p  0.05 in s. litura lar- vae fed on dss diet from neonate stage as compared to othersamples.

n  larvae fed on the artificial diet t  larvae fed on dss treated diet asterisk sign presents the significant p value of each day--p  0.05 p  0.001.pandey and rajagopal11figure 5. histopathological structural changes in the midgut section of axenic s. litura larvae.

a noteworthy observation was that early third instar larval population fed on dss diet for 8 days 3 dss-8 days or 5 dss-8 days exhibited minimal de- viation bray-curtis value 0.212-0.228 from those raised on lab diet without dss untreated.

11figure 3. microphotograph of midgut section of control s. litura larvae hi  0 and structural changes in the midgut section of s. litura larvae on feeding dss- supplemented diet hi  1 2 3 and 4. a midgut epithelium of healthy s. litura larvae depicting intact basement membrane bm columnar cells cc goblet cells gc peritrophic membrane pm clear midgut lumen double arrow damage score 0 hi  0 x100 b microphotograph depicts degrading pm black arrows damage score 0.5 and few damaged epithelia cells falling into lumen damage score  0.5 hi  1 x100 c microphotograph depicts proliferating midgut epithelium rectangular box damage score  1 and complete loss of pm damage score 1 hi  2 x100 d proliferating midgut epithelium at higher magnification region within box in fig.

