As such the impacts of exogenous contaminants on microbial ecology is an area to be explored to understand what are the chemical and physical conditions that allow the pro- liferation of pathogenic bacteria and to find alternatives for water treatment by identifying organic-degrading bacteria.

In fact weakly chlorinated compounds produced by dechlorination of highly chlorinated ones are substrates for Gram negative aerobic bacteria genus Pseudomonas Alcaligenes Achromobacter Comamonas Sphingomonas Ralstonia Acinetobacter Burkholderia and Gram-positive bacteria genus Rhodococcus Coryne- bacterium Bacillus .Achromobacter sp.

Given the collective ability for these detected bacteria to degrade organic molecules it is not surprising that a majority of these organotrophic bacteria were detected in samples from Sites 1-3 where groundwater quality had been severely degraded by hydrocarbons and other VOCs.Antibiotic resistanceSafe drinking water is a necessity and a growing concern as groundwater expands as a major source for drinking water.

werethe predominant bacteria identified.Antimicrobial tests revealed antibiotic resistances of some of the identified bacteria.Groundwater microbiome varies with degree of anthropogenic contamination.G R A P H I C A L A B S T R A C Ta r t i c l ei n f o Article historyReceived 5 September 2017Received in revised form 4 October 2017Accepted 4 October 2017Available online 18 October 2017 Editor D. BarceloKeywordsMALDI-TOF MSUnconventional oil and gas extraction Hydraulic fracturingGroundwater microbiomea b s t r a c t Groundwater is a major source for drinking water in the United States and therefore its quality and quantity is of extreme importance.

Oppor- tunistic pathogenic bacteria such as Aeromonas hydrophila Bacillus cereus Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Stenotrophomonas maltophilia were identified increasing the risk for consumption of and exposure to these con- taminated groundwaters.

Additionally antimicrobial tests revealed that many of the identified bacteria were re- sistant to different antibiotics.

0048-9697c 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Opportunistic pathogenic bacteria Antibacterial resistancesequencing proving the accuracy of this high-throughput method.

These regulations only cover Cryptosporid- ium Giardia lamblia Legionella total coliforms including fecal coliform and E. coli and enteric viruses  and do not cover other harmful bacteria that can be isolated from different types of potable water .

Therefore it is essential to understand the correlation between the environment and bacteria by studying the type and diversity of bac- terial communities and their stress responses to the groundwater con- tamination .There are many different sources of groundwater contamination that generally stem from local human activities.

Therefore the impacts of UD activities on bacterial communities in groundwater have yet to be explored thoroughly .The rapid identification of bacteria in contaminated groundwater is necessary for monitoring changes in bacterial communities and to identify any possible health concern.

