Different probiotic mechanisms are displayed using the examples of L. rhamnosus GG L. acidophilus NCFM L. gasseri 2055 L. casei Shirota and L. plantarum WFSC1.

Obesity- associated intestinal dysbiosis triggers intestinal inflammation increased permeability of the intestinal epithelium and changes in the intestinal metabolome.

Within the L. plantarum species several strains have successfully improved glycemic control and had anti-obesity effects in animals - and T2D patients  Table .The species L. rhamnosus L. casei and L. paracasei form a closely related taxonomic group  Fig.

The Lactobacillus plantarum L. plantarum strain 299 v is beneficial in the treatment of irritable bowl syndrome IBS   while L. plantarum strain MF1298 increases symptoms of IBS .

Phylogenetic trees are based on 16 S rRNA sequences adapted from  L. casei strains 431 CCFM0412 and Shirota improved glucose tolerance in animals - and L. casei Shirota reduced the effects of a high-fat diet HFD in healthy individuals .Several L. paracasei strains improved glycemic control in animals   or restored liver function in diet- induced hypercholesterolemic animals  .L.

Sinha Oral administration of dahi con- taining probiotic Lactobacillus acidophilus and Lactobacillus casei delayed the progression of streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats.

Effects of Lactobacillus paracasei CNCM I-4034 Bifidobacter- ium breve CNCM I-4035 and Lactobacillus rhamnosus CNCM I- 4036 on hepatic steatosis in Zucker rats.

Servin Individual and co-operative roles of lactic acid and hydrogen peroxide in the killing activity of enteric strain Lactobacillus johnsonii NCC933 and vaginal strain Lactobacillus gasseri KS120.1 against enteric uropathogenic and vaginosis- associated pathogens.

Shida T. Suzuki J. Kiyoshima-Shibata S. Shimada M. Nanno Essential roles of monocytes in stimulating human per- ipheral blood mononuclear cells with Lactobacillus casei to produce cytokines and augment natural killer cell activity.

Fazeli J. Moshtaghian M. Mirlohi M. Shirzadi Reduction in lipid serum parameter by incorporation of a native strain of Lactobacillus plantarum A7 in mice.

