This analysis included microbiome and CSF data from 9 AD group participants and 31 non-demented ND participants 10 from the Control group and an additional 21 largely younger participants not selected in the original random matching with AD participants.

Correlations were calculated using data from the total group of 40 participants as well as separately for ND participants and AD participants.

Correlations were calculated separately for all 40 participants All 31 non-demented participants ND and 9 AD participants AD.

Notably in both more and less abundant genera the strongest correlations between bacterial abundance and CSF AD biomarkers were in the same direction whether including only AD participants only healthy non-demented participants or all participants.

Thus increased abundance of gram-negative intestinal bac- teria such as Bacteroides in participants with AD may result in increased translocation of LPS from the gut to systemic circulation which in turn may contribute to or exacerbate AD pathology through inflammation or other mechanisms.Additionally compared to control participants AD participants in our study exhibited decreased Actinobacteria.

For secondary CSF correlational analysis we used microbiome and CSF data from 9 AD cohort participants and 31 non-demented ND participants including 10 from the age- and sex-matched Control cohort and an additional 21 largely younger participants not included in the primary analysis.Fecal sample collection and bacterial 16S rRNA sequencing and processing.

Gut microbiome compositional analysis was performed on fecal samples collected from home-dwelling participants with dementia due to AD n 25 and age- and sex-matched Control participants n  25.

D OTUs grouped at the phylum level and analyzed using Metastats showthat AD participants have decreased abundance of Firmicutes and Actinobacteria and increased abundance of Bacteroidetes compared to Control participants p  0.05 FDR-corrected.

Within Firmicutes the families Ruminococcaceae Turicibacteraceae Peptostreptococcaceae Clostridiaceae and Mogibacteriaceae and the genera SMB53 family Clostridiaceae Dialister Clostridium Turicibacter and cc115 family Erysipelotrichaceae were all less abundant in AD participants while the family Gemellaceae and the genera Blautia Phascolarctobacterium and Gemella were more abundant in AD participants Fig.

Bacterial families and genera differentially represented in feces from AD participants compared to Control participants p  0.05 FDR-corrected.

