zimmern p. norton j. w. kusek a. j. wolfe and l. brubaker national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases urinary incontinence treatment networkdepartments of microbiology and immunology obstetrics and gynecology and urology stritch school of medicine loyola university chicago and departments of medicine and public health sciences loyola university medical center maywood illinois department of urology yale university new haven connecticut department of reproductive medicine university of californiaesan diego health system san diego california department of obstetrics and gynecology university of alabama at birmingham birmingham alabama department of obstetrics and gynecology university of pittsburgh pittsburgh pennsylvania department of urology university of texas southwestern medical center dallas texas department of obstetrics and gynecology university of utah salt lake city utah and national institute of diabetes and digestive and kidney diseases national institutes of health bethesda marylande.

conceptually one can appreciate why bacteria might be related to urgency urinary incontinence and not stress incontinence.

abstract available at re urinary incontinence making sense of the urinary microbiota in clinical urologyg.

abstract available at editorial comment the original purpose of the study by thomas-white et al was to investigate the cross-sectional relationships between urinary microbiota features and demographic and clinical characteristics of women undergoing surgery for stress incontinence.

however there were no associations detected with stress incontinence symptoms.

the ultimate conclusion was that diversity of the microbiota in women was asso- ciated with urgency urinary incontinence symptoms hormone status hormone positive and body mass index.the article by reid and burton is essentially a well thought out editorial comment on how the identification of specific genera and species via bacterial dna analysis has dramatically changed our view of tissue sterility.

