this hypolipidaemic effect of the coconut water vinegar was recorded in a dose-dependent manner.figure 1. body weight measurement week 0-33 of untreated mice and mice fed 0.08 mlkg body weight bw coconut water vinegar cl or 2 mlkg bw coconut water vinegar ch.

an hfd of d12451 45 kcal fat research diets new brunswick nj usa was used to induce obesity in all the mice fortable 1. grouping of the high-fat-diet hfd induced obese mice according to treatment.grouptreatmentstrand complementary dna cdna using the iscripttm reverse transcription supermix forqpcr bio-rad hercules ca usa according to the man-ut untreated obesecontrolcl low-dose coconut water vinegarch high-dose coconut water vinegarinduced obese mice given hfd  distilledwater controlinduced obese mice given hfd  0.08 mlkg body weight coconut water vinegarinduced obese mice given hfd  2 mlkg body weight coconut water vinegarufacturer's protocols.

ten weeks of coconut water vinegar treatment led to approximate reductions of 17.9 and 8.7 in body weight for cl 0.08 mlkg bw and ch 2 mlkg bw respectively compared to the untreated mice .serum lipid profile assayin association with the reduction in body weight the hfd-induced obese mice treated with coconut water vinegar showed a reduction in the levels of serum choles- terol triglycerides and ldl.

different letters indicate significant differences among groups p  0.05.table 3. body weight fat-pad weight and fat-padbody weight ratio of untreated ut 0.08 mlkg body weight bw coconut water vinegar cl and 2 mlkg bw coconut water vinegar ch-treated high-fat-diet hfd-induced obese mice at the end of week 33.groupfinal bw gmousefat-pad weightfat-padbw ratio data are shown as mean - sd of biologically replicated mice from the same treatment group.different superscript letters indicate significant differences among the groups p  0.05.expression of glut4 adiponectin and srebp genes in the adipose tissuein the adipose tissues of the coconut water vinegar- treated groups the mrna expression of glucose trans- porter type 4 glut4 and adiponectin was up-regu- lated in a dose-dependent manner compared to the untreated group.

ldl low-density lipoprotein hdl high-density lipoprotein.different superscript letters indicate significant differences among the groups p  0.05.figure 2. a quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis of obesity-related genes glucose transporter type 4 glut4 adiponectin and sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1 srebp1 of untreated ut mice and mice fed 0.08 mlkg body weight bw coconut water vinegar cl or 2 mlkg bw coconut water vinegar ch.

different letters indicate significant differences among groups p  0.05.figure 3. a nitric oxide no content and b quantitative polymerase chain reaction analyses of inflammation related genes nuclear factor-kb nfkb and inducible nitric oxide synthase inos of untreated ut mice and mice fed 0.08 mlkg body weight bw coconut water vinegar cl or 2 mlkg bw coconut water vinegar ch.

the ch dose was selected based on the previous in vivo study of vinegar  while the cl dose was selected based on one tablespoon of vinegar in 250 ml of water which is the common daily vinegar intake .

this effect was correlated with down-regulated the expression of nuclear factor-kb nf-kb and inducibletable 4. serum biochemical profile of untreated ut 0.08 mlkg body weight bw coconut water vinegar cl and 2 mlkg bw coconut water vinegar ch-treated high-fat-diet hfd-induced obese mice.data are shown as mean - sd of biologically replicated mice from the same treatment group.

on the other hand the expression of sterol regulatory element-binding protein srebp1 wasdown-regulated in the coconut water vinegar-treated groups compared to the untreated group .level of adipokines in adipose tissueamong all the adipokines retinol-binding protein-4 rbp4 and resistin were the two major adipokines that were significantly down-regulated in the adipose tissues of the obese mice treated with 2 mlkg bw of coconut water vinegar compared to the untreated obese mice .no level and nf-kb and inos expression in the liverboth coconut water vinegar-treated groups showed similar reductions in the level of no in the liver when compared to the untreated group .

reported on the anti-obesity and hypolipidaemic effectsfigure 4. comparison of the relative abundance of gut microbiota at genus level of untreated ut mice and mice fed 2 mlkg body weight coconut water vinegar ch at the end of week 33 post-experiment using illumina 16s rrna metagenomic sequencing.

the mice were acclima- tised for 7 days in plastic cages at room temperature 22 - 1degc with 12 h darklight cycles and fed a standard pellet diet and distilled water ad libitum.experimental designthe mice were divided into three groups with eight mice in each group .

61 1368322httpsdoi.org10.108016546628.2017.1368322articledietary coconut water vinegar for improvement of obesity-associated inflammation in high-fat-diet-treated micenurul elyani mohamad swee keong yeap huynh ky wan yong ho sook yee boo joelle chuaboon-kee beh shaiful adzni sharifuddin kamariah and noorjahan banu alitheenadepartment of cell and molecular biology faculty of biotechnology and biomolecular science malaysia agricultural research and development institute mardi serdang malaysia bchina-asean college of marine sciences xiamen university malaysia sepang malaysia cdepartment of agriculture genetics and breeding college of agriculture and applied biology can tho university can tho city vietnam dschool of biomedical sciences university of nottingham malaysia campus semenyih malaysia escience vision sdn bhd shah alam malaysia fbioeasy sdn bhd shah alam malaysia ginstitute of bioscience universiti putra malaysia serdang malaysia hbiotechnology research centre malaysian agricultural research and development institute mardi serdang malaysiaarticle historyreceived 12 march 2017accepted 4 august 2017keywordscoconut water vinegar srebp1 adiponectin inflammation gut microbiotaintroductionobesity is an epidemic disease caused by multiple endogenous and environmental factors.

although coconut water is a nutritious beverage and has been proven to be a suitable starting material for vinegar production  the bioactivities of coconut water vinegar particularly its anti-obesity effect have yet to be scientifically validated.

in addition the duration of treatment for coconut water vinegar in this study was 4 weeks longer than in the previous report of tomato vinegar.

thus the higher efficacy of coconut water vinegar than tomato vinegar may be accounted for by the difference in starting material - and the longer duration of treatment.

