by identi- fying both abiotic macroenvironmentaland biotic microenvironmental filtering we recommend a framework for better measuring environmental filtering and its consequences for trait-environment relationships.the core idea of environmental filtering stems from using it as an ecological ana- log to natural selection.

ballhausen.referencesfiletterenvironmental filtering niche construction and trait variability the missing discussionmadhav p. thakurand alexandra j. wright3ecologists have recently both criticized and defended the environmental filtering concept 12. such discussions are cru- cial for advancing our understanding of community assembly mechanisms and trait-environment relationships.

referencesletterenvironmental filtering is a relic.a response to cadotte and tuckercarlos a. aguilar-trigueros matthias c. rilligandmax-bernhard ballhausencadotte and tucker in the recent issue of tree pp.

environ- mental filtering has been defined as the set of abiotic environmental conditions that select for the establishment of a group of species in a given habitat .

specifically cadotte and tucker argue that the criteria to determine environmental filtering should include the covariation of traits and demographic parameters along abiotic gradientsexpanding on previous work that nar- rowed the criteria exclusively to mortality rates .

here we want to use the momentum created by the cadotte and tucker piece to expand and update the concept and use of environmental filtering in community ecology.we completely agree with cadotte and tucker that correlations of demographic parameters of macroorganisms should be studied along environmental gra- dients.

fungi bacteria archaea protozoa are constant and 'omnipresent' in all habitats and can- not be separated from the abiotic envi- ronment .for example experimental measures of demographic parameters like mortality rates or intrinsic population growth in the absence of competitors are consid- ered the strongest evidence for the detec- tion of environmental filtering .

at this point higher trophic interactions or disturbances can further influence the community composition.showcases that microorganisms cannot be separated from their host and are inherently present when they interact with their environment.community assembly should focus on biotic filters modified by an environmental background although cadotte and tucker briefly men- tion that pathogens or mutualists can also give rise to patterns consistent with envi- ronmental filtering trying to separate thesemicroorganism interactions from the envi- ronment is an unrealistic goal.

when the concept of environmental filter- ing was developed  the discipline of microbial ecology was still relatively young and the term is thus a 'relic' of a time when microbial ecology was not well inte- grated with ecological theory.environmental filtering is a concept that has been developed and applied with macrobial systems in mind.

here we suggest a modification of the discus- sion to focus on the combined effects of environmental filtering e.g.

after the inception of the environmental filtering concept ecolo- gists have rigorously investigated how traits of species map with their macro- environment e.g.

mean annual temper- ature and precipitation elevation soil type and how this may explain species membership in a given environmenthab- itatpatch 4. when member species in a community share common traits phylo- genetic or trait-based clustering it is often interpreted as the result of environ- mental filtering.

