previously these were also found in the root zones of date palms  and agave .in case of bacterial communities actinobacteria acidobacteria proteobacteria and bacteroi- dete were significantly abundant bacterial phyla from the three rhizospheric populations.these are some of the predominantly abundant bacterial species found in the metagenomic dataset obtained from various plants and rhizosphere  .

a total of 678mbp and 1.24gbp of high quality read data  wasdistribution of fungal and bacterial communities operational taxonomic units otus and chao-1 of each replica from data generated through miseq sequencing 16s and its of the rhizospheric samples from wild and cultivated rhizosphere of b. sacra tree.generated for fungal and bacterial microbial communities respectively .

where iaa production has been shown a major feature of plant growth promoting activity of both fungal and bacterial rhizospheric communities as suggested by adriaenssens  cipriano et al.

however a considerable progress is also being made in understanding the microbial ecology of the rhizosphere of non-cultivated plant species in natural ecosystems   and how microorganisms influence resource allocation biodiversity and above-ground interactions with herbivores and their natural enemies  .current study elucidated the fungal and bacterial microbial communities of three b. sacra tree populations which showed a varying response in the metagenomic data output as well as the number of otus.

also showed that the struc- ture and diversity of bacterial communities vary significantly across the rhizosphere of the same plant species collected from different location.

however this was different in bacterial communities as each sample formed a cladogram with each other .fungal microbial communities in the rhizosphere of b. sacrarhizospheric microbial diversity among the three populations varied greatly.

in addition most of the studies are restricted to bacterial communitieswhereas less emphasis has been made on the fungal communities suggesting a future need to consider the holistic approach to understand the microbiome in the rhizosphere.besides the abundance the distribution of microbial communities also differed across the three population of rhizosphere.

2011 65e20611.pmidqi x wang e xing m zhao w chen x. rhizosphere and non-rhizosphere bacterial community com- position of the wild medicinal plant rumex patientia.

2012 710e48479.pmidmarschner p yang c-h lieberei r crowley d. soil and plant specific effects on bacterial community composition in the rhizosphere.

2005 375937-44.khan al al-harrasi a al-rawahi a al-farsi z al-mamari a waqas m et al.

2012 710e47500.pmidkhan al hamayun m kang s-m kim y-h jung h-y lee j-h et al.

however since in the bsw rhizosphere the tree populations are often confronted with extreme growth conditions showing a minimal microbial activity which is also in correlation with our miseq data for lower abundance of both fungal and bacterial communities.

sacra tree showed a lower read count than the cultivated population .in case of otu analysis significantly higher p0.0019 average 1006-9.9 otus were revealed in bacterial communities whereas in fungi it was significantly lower p0.0019 aver- age 60.6-3.1. this suggests a higher microbial diversity of bacterial species.

the soil struc- ture in these three regions bsa bsd and bsw varied with respect to soil texture ph organic matter and nutrient concentration  which may act as potential selection fac- tors affecting rhizosphere communities and plant growth.

similarly solomon and matthews  demonstrated that the colonization of endophytes in plant internal tissues involved the production of cellulases and glucosidases   such indicating the cell wall degrading enzymes were most likely a key determinant for the bacteria to initially enter and colonize the plant host to promote plant growth .

