given the complexity and numbers of species involved the overall metabolism of these bacteria in the git is also very complex and assessments of human and animal git health outcomes are often analysed by a number of indicators and parameters for git health.

reviewgut fermentation of dietary fibres physico-chemistry of plant cell walls and implications for healthbarbara a. williams  lucas j. grant  michael j. gidley and deirdre mikkelsenarc centre of excellence for plant cell walls centre for nutrition and food sciencesqueensland alliance for agriculture and food innovation the university of queensland st. lucia qld 4072 australia l.j.g.

a recent review  provides an excellent summary of how the human microbiome can regulate and maintain human health.the human git microbiota is still a relatively new frontier for studies using next-generation sequencing and new species are constantly being sequenced and added to public databases.

phytochemistry 2001 57 929-967. ndeh d. rogowski a. cartmell a. luis a.s. basle a. gray j. venditto i. briggs j. zhang x. labourel a. et al.

2010 9 178-196. maathuis a. hoffman a. evans a. sanders l. venema k. the effect of the undigested fraction of maize products on the activity and composition of the microbiota determined in a dynamicin vitromodel of the human proximal large intestine.

health benefits of reduced protein fermentation are related to the reduction of ammonia and other nitrogenous compounds in the git  while increased protein fermentation is considered to be detrimental to git health .ammonia nh3 is the dominant by-product of the fermentation of amino acids in the git.

in addition the use of purified df for these studies is popular due to their potential use as a prebiotic in commercial food products .table 2. studies involving various purified df and the effect on human git microbiota.purified ingredientmethodology usedfindingsreferenceconsumption of these fibres led to anpolydextrose soluble maize fibre454 pyrosequencing of bacterial 16s rrna genes v4-v6 regionincreased abundance of faecal clostridiaceae veillonellaceae faecalibacteriumphascolarctobacterium dialister and lower eubacteriaceaemaize dextrin pullulan resistant starch rsall tested substrates except rs reduced species micro-array analysisof the bacteroides group and increasedbifidobacteriaaloe vera gel extract and powder larch u. pinnatifida fucoidans tragacanth gum ghatti gumreal-time pcr analysis of species of interestincreased bifidobacteria spp.

table presents a summary of mainly in vitro studies using both human and pig inocula which examined effects of whole plant-based food products on the git microbiota diversity.an in vitro study which compared fermentability of purified ax with wheat bran figure  showed distinct differences in terms of the gas production kinetics in time .

human physiology git microbiology and plant-based food chemistry.

faecal abundance of bifidobacterium and lactobacillus were significantly increased in the whole-grain diet.fruits and vegetablesresearch into the effect of whole food versus purified dietary constituents on git microbiota in vivo is very limited particularly for fruits and vegetables.

estimations put polyphenol absorption in the small intestine at 5-10 and the remaining 90-95 accumulates in the large intestinal lumen up to millimoles in concentration where they may be subjected to microbial fermentation .while not classified as df phytochemicals and df have an intricate relation and so need to be examined together as part of relevant food sources.effects of food processing on plant cell wallsuntil recently dietary advice has focused on nutrient content of foods according to their individual macro- and micro-nutrient contents including df as a single nutritional category .

a prebiotic is a nondigestible compound that through its metabolization by microorganisms in the gut modulates composition andor activity of the gut microbiota thus conferring a beneficial physiological effect on the host.in other words the most important change is that it is alterations in git bacterial metabolism rather than specific numbers of bacterial species which receives the most attention.

composition and metabolic activities of bacterial biofilms colonizing food residues in the human gut.

backhed f. analysis of gut microbial regulation of host gene expression along the length of the gut and regulation of gut microbial ecology through myd88.

in broader terms results such as these have implications for site of fermentation in the git as more slowly fermentable materials will be more likely to ferment for a longer trajectory within the large intestine compared with a substrate which is fermented more rapidly .4504003503002502001501005000.012.024.036.048.060.0time hfigure 3. a comparison of in vitro fermentability of arabinoxylan as a pure dietary fibre component versus wheat bran showing differences in the cumulative gas volumes over time for each substrate with arabinoxylan readily fermented compared to the more complex wheat bran dietary fibre adapted from williams et al.

