To this end WT mice were cohoused with PD-1-- mice at 11 ratio for 4 wks and then treated with DSS in drinking water for 9 d. We found that PD-1-- mice cohoused with WT mice had significant loss of body weight as compared to PD-1-- mice housed alone while the loss of body weight of WT mice was slightly ameliorated by cohousing with PD-1-- mice but was not statistically significant Fig.

These results suggest that resistance to DSS-induced colitis in PD-1-- mice is dependent on their gut microbiota that is less colitogenic than those in WT mice.Composition of gut microbiota is altered in PD-1-deficient miceSince our data in cohousing experiment supports the previous report showing altered composition of microbiota in PD-1--mice 23 we next characterize microbial communities through 16S rRNA gene-pyrosequencing analysis with cecal contents of WT or PD-1-- mice.

Interestingly PD-1-- mice cohoused with WT mice became susceptible to colitis suggesting that resistance of PD-1-- mice to colitis is dependent on their gut microbiota.

We previously showed the protective effect of IL-12p40 on DSS-induced colitis 18 thus we next examined whether higher production of IL-12p40 in PD-1-- mice is critical for decreased incidence of colitis in PD-1-- mice.

We observed that treatment of neutralizing anti-IL-12p40 mAb into PD-1-- mice during DSS administration did not exacerbate colitis in PD-1-- mice Supplementary Fig.

At the species level 5 species in major species  2 abundance were significantly decreased in PD-1-- mice compared to WT mice among which 3 unculturable species DQ815759s EF603419s EF097057s belonged to Rikenelleceae family and otherspecies is Helicobacter muridarum that was not detected in PD-1-- mice Fig.

Therefore our results suggest that PD-1 deficiency resulted in altered composition of gut microbiota which is associated with resistance to DSS- induced colitis.Colon epithelial cells produce less inflammatory mediators in response to cecal extracts from PD-1-deficient miceTo further determine whether colon microbiota of PD-1-- mice is less colitogenic than WT commensal bacteria we stimulated CT-26 colon epithelial cell lines with cecal extracts from WT or PD-1-- mice.

Wild-type WT mice had severe wasting disease during experimentally induced colitis while mice deficient for PD-1 PD-1-- did not develop colon inflamma- tion.

16S rRNA gene-pyrosequencing analysis showed that PD-1-- mice had altered composition of gut microbiota with significant reduction in Rikenellaceae family.

These altered colon bacteria of PD-1-- mice induced less amount of inflammatory mediators from colon epithelial cells including interleukin IL-6 and inflammatory chemokines.

