Our results reveal that transmission pathways for bacterial symbionts may be very different both between developmental stages and between sister genera and that identifying the mechanisms of bacterial acquisition and loss will be important to clarify their putative mutualistic functions.Keywords symbiosis gut microbiota bacterial transmission Mollicutes Wolbachia 16S rRNA sequencingINTRODUCTIONBacterial symbionts of insects can either be vertically transmitted or acquired de novo from the environment in every generation.

Recent studies have shown that the diversity of the gut bacterial community of adult workers of Acromyrmex echinatior is as low as in honeybee workers and mainly composed of a handful of Wolbachia Mollicutes and Rhizobiales bacteria whereas gut microbiome diversity in Atta cephalotes workers including Mollicutes and Rhizobiales is only slightly higher    Sapountzis et al.

The infection status of workers was repeatedly confirmed with PCR presence of known Mollicutes Operational Taxonomic Units OTUs EntAcro1 or EntAcro2 see Results   before the start of the experiment and the following combinations of brood and workers were setup to monitor different transmission patterns Ae360 pupae Ae360 workers transmission toward brood within a single colony where workers were infected with EntAcro1 Ae507 pupae Ae322 workers transmission across colonies with different Mollicutes infection EntAcro1 and weak EntAcro2 pupae versus EntAcro2 and weak EntAcro1workers Ac2012-2 pupae Ac2012-3 workers and Ac2012-3 pupae Ac2012-2 workers transmission across colonies with similar double Mollicutes infection EntAcro1 and weak EntAcro2.

We could not localize Mollicutes in larval and pupal guts from the lab colony of A. cephalotes confirming that bacterial presence including Mollicutes in these stages is very low .

The Mollicutes-like bacteria that we observed with TEM lacked a cell wall which is a unique feature of Mollicutes and had rod shapes with an average diameter 0.4 um and a length range of 0.7-1.9 um .Test of the Hypothesis of Social Transmission for MollicutesBefore the bacterial transmission experiment  we tested Mollicutes infection status in workers from the lab colonies.

We thus hypothesize that Mollicutes bacteria infect hemolymph and surrounding tissues of leaf-cutting ants during remodeling of the internal anatomy in the pupal stage but further work will be needed to substantiate this.In some solitary insects Mollicutes increase longevity and fecundity of their vector hosts   but it remains as yet unclear whether and how Mollicutes EntAcro1 and EntAcro2 are beneficial for Acromyrmex and Atta leaf-cutting ants.

Delalibera I. J. Vasanthakumar A. Burwitz B. J. Schloss P. D. Klepzig K. D. Handelsman J. et al.

Liberti J. Sapountzis P. Hansen L. H. Sorensen S. J. Adams R. M. M. and Boomsma J. J.

Tully J. G. Rose D. L. Hackett K. J. Whitcomb R. F. Carle P. Bove J. M. et al.

Bacterial density remained similar across the developmental stages of Acromyrmex but Atta brood had very low bacterial prevalences suggesting that bacterial gut symbionts are not actively maintained.

