diabetes care 19 1138-1141 1996.piekarski j. goldberg h. i. royal s. a. axel l.  moss a. a. difference between liver and spleen ct numbers in the normal adult its usefulness in predicting the presence of diffuse liver disease.

therefore insulin resistance is due to alteration of gut microbiota by a. actinomycetemcomitans rather than endotoxin-induced inflammation in the liver at 6 weeks.there are no antibiotics specific to a. actinomycetemcomitans so it is impossible to selectively target anddisable any function of only a. actinomycetemcomitans.

openperiodontal pathogenic bacteria aggregatibacterreceived 31 march 2017accepted 9 october 2017 published xx xx xxxxactinomycetemcomitans affectnon-alcoholic fatty liver disease by altering gut microbiota and glucose metabolismrina komazaki1 sayaka katagiri1 hirokazu takahashi2 shogo maekawa1 takahiko shiba1 yasuo takeuchi1yoichiro kitajima23 anri ohtsu1 sayuri udagawa1 naoki sasaki1 kazuki watanabe1 noriko sato4 naoyuki miyasaka5yuichiro eguchi6 keizo anzai2 yuichi izumi1increasing evidence indicates that periodontitis affects non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld.

thus infection with aa affects nafld by altering the gut microbiota and glucose metabolism.non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is the most common chronic liver disease.

accumulating fatty acid in the gut might be transported to the liver via the portal vein and exacerbate liver steatosis.

hence we focused on a. actinomycetemcomitans as a risk factor of nafld.kegg pathway analysis in liver microarrays suggested the induction of metabolic disorders such as enrich- ment of glucagon signaling pathway insulin resistance and adipocytokine signaling pathway following a. actin- omycetemcomitans administration.

our results revealed that mrna expression of tnfa il6 and il1b in the liver showed no significant differences between normal chow diet control and normal chow diet with a. actinomycet- emcomitans or between high-fat diet control and high-fat diet with a. actinomycetemcomitans.

diabetes 65 1462-1471 2016.parnell j. a. raman m. rioux k. p.  reimer r. a. the potential role of prebiotic fibre for treatment and management of non- alcoholic fatty liver disease and associated obesity and insulin resistance.

this is the first study to comprehensively evaluate gene expression in the liver and gut microbiota composi- tion following a. actinomycetemcomitans administration in mice.methodspatients.

sci rep 4 4828 2014.abu-shanab a.  quigley e. m. the role of the gut microbiota in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

sci rep 5 8096 2015.tilg h. cani p. d.  mayer e. a. gut microbiome and liver diseases.

gut 65 2035-2044 2016.buzzetti e. pinzani m.  tsochatzis e. a. the multiple-hit pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld.

this study suggests that periodontal disease influences diabetes not only via inflammation but also by altering gut microbiota.in conclusion a. actinomycetemcomitans might be a risk factor for nafld because it alters the gut microbi- ota.

nafld was diagnosed according to the following criteria 1 a slight diffuse increase in bright homogeneous echoes in the liver parenchyma with normal visualis- ation of the diaphragm and portal and hepatic vein borders and normal hepatorenal contrast of echogenicity 2 a diffuse increase in bright echoes in the liver parenchyma with slightly impaired visualisation of the peripheral portal and hepatic vein borders and 3 a marked increase in bright echoes at a shallow depth with deep atten- uation and impaired visualisation of the diaphragm and marked vascular blurring as previously described.

oral administration of a. actinomycetemcomitans led to increased mrna expression of acetyl-coa carboxylase acc1 an enzyme involved in lipid metabolism in the liver and glucokinase glck in mice fed a normal diet.

