a. babaev i. p. balmasova et al.givalis a. actinomycetemcomitans and t. forsythia and second order t. denticola p. intermedia f. nu- cleatumperiodonticum p. endodontalis e. corrodens and p. micra 23. the introduction of new molecu- lar biological technologies with pcr diagnostics and high-performance sequencing in laboratory practice allowed us to identify other microorganisms which are not cultured and cannot be revealed in bacterio- logical studies 4.our results indicate that the most pathogenic spe- cies of p. gingivalis which belongs to the first-order periodontal pathogens plays an important role in the etiology of periodontitis in dm2 patients 2. second- order periodontal pathogens e.g.

p1 probability of differences between dm2 patients and periodontitis patients p2 probability of differences between dm2 patients and healthy volunteers p3 probability of differences between periodontitis patients and healthy volunteers.

quantitative analysis for the content of p. gingivalis t. forsythia a. ctinomycetem- comitans t. denticola p. intermedia f. nucleatumperiodonticum and p. endodontalis in the dental plaque was performed with a dentoscreen kit.

p0.05 in comparison with periodontitis patients.incidence of these periodontal pathogens was highest during periodontitis complicated by dm2.detailed comparative quantitative analysis of peri- odontopathogenic microorganisms as differentiated from the partial method in clinical dental practice allowed us to evaluate a wide range of differences between patients and healthy volunteers.for example the development of periodontitis in dm2 patients was accompanied by a significant increase in the content of p. gingivalis t. forsythia and t. denticola in gingival sulcus fluid.

682-686 june 2017 original article submitted april 20 2017biofilm of the gingival sulcus from 22 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and periodontitis 30 patients with periodontitis not complicated by diabetes mellitus reference group and 22 healthy volunteers without signs of gingival disease control group was studied by quantita- tive pcr.

the duration of dm2 was 3-23 years less than 10 years in 44 patients more than 20 years in 17 patients.

gingivalis t. forsythia and p. endodontalis and 106 for t. denticola p. intermedia and f. nucleatum periodonticum fig.

1. incidence of some periodontopathogenic bacteria in patients with dm2 and periodontitis and in patients with periodontitis.

a. babaev1 i. p. balmasova1 a. m. mkrtumyan1s.

metagenomic analysis confirmed the pathogenic role of microbiota in combined pathology as well as the hypothesis on a possible influence of periodontitis on the course and development of type 2 diabetes mellitus.key words 16s sequencing metagenomic analysis microbiota type 2 diabetes mellitusperiodontitismore than 2.5 billion people in russian suffer from diabetes mellitus 90 patients have type 2 diabe- tes mellitus dm2.

approximately one year after the diagnosis of dm 100 patients have the signs of chronic periodontitis with possible loss of teeth 1. this association of periodontitis and dm2 results from fact that dm is accompanied by a variety of metabolic and immunological disturbances including oxidative stress change in the cytokine profile of the immune system and modulation of cell receptors 57. these1a.

a. babaev i. p. balmasova et al.tal and maxillofacial surgery moscow.

the main group consisted of 22 patients 11 men and 11 women 47-63 years with dm2 in combination with periodon- titis confirmed by a detailed dental examination.

the reference group included 30 patients 13 men and 17 women 42-60 years with periodontitis not compli- cated by dm2.

quantitative analysis of p. gingivalis t. forsythiaa.

