here we aim to give a perspective on the clinical assessment of the impact of cs on oa and other inflammatory disorders.explaining inconsistent outcomes of cs on oa by theindividual-specificity of gut microbiota symbiontsconsidering the oral administration gastrointestinal uptake and structural similarity of cs with mucin-type o-glycans of the colonic epithelium we propose a hypothesis of an akkermansia muciniphila-dependent cs effect on oa in which cs improves oa if a. muciniphila is present and cs aggravates oa ifa.

2016.how can a. muciniphila residing in the gut confer a beneficial effect of cs on oa why is cs ineffective or even harmful when ssb preferentially occupy the gut a. muciniphila may act as a gatekeeper of the mucosa de vos 2017 or stimulate the mucosal immunity to prevent pathogenic invasion and prompt thickening of the colonic mucosa to reduce the susceptibility to infection.

alternatively it should be an option that cs is usedfigure 1  changes in the gut microbiota profiles of mice fed ad libitum al and chondroitin sulfate cs n  3 for mice fed cs n  2 for mice fed al cs.ra cs.nm and cs.hl represent three mice fed cs al1 and al2 represent two mice fed al.

distinct gut microflora communities might be rapidly established in mice fed cs at identical doses and schedules.as shown in figure 1b when the proliferation of ssb plus srb exceeds that of meb because of unbalanced gut symbionts cs would aggravate oa because of an a. muciniphila population insufficient to stimulate mucin induction and mucus repair.

to decipher how can an individual gut microbiota determine the clinical values of cs for treatment on oa we suggest here that cs would give distinct outcomes for oa treatment depending on akkermansia muciniphila a gut commensal probiotic bacterial species as optimal presence albeit also behaving as mucus-eroding bacteria meb when abundant presence.

a cs-induced gut microbiota shifts that varied in individual mice.b unbalanced gut symbionts with more ssbsrb than meb species that aggravate oa due to insufficient a. muciniphila c balanced gut symbionts in germ-free conditions or with commensal diversity that ameliorate oa because of no gut microbiota interference.

similarly oa patients with a history of organ transplantation and using immunosuppressive drugs might not maintain an a. muciniphila population optimal for avoiding persistent colonic mucus erosion and prolonged oa deterioration.development of next-generation cs formulations such as injectable lyophilized cs preparations not only minimizes cs- related side-effects but also expands the indication of cs to a broad range of inflammatory disorders including inflammatory bowel disease.

briefly cs would ameliorate oa if a. muciniphila is present due to without overgrowth of ssb and srb whereas cs would aggravate oa if a. muciniphila is absent because of failure in or lack of competition with abundant ssb and srb.

however cs would aggravate oa given an excess of a. muciniphila in a gut with decreased mucosal immunity such as in the immunocompromised elderly and ill or patients who are immunosuppressed following organ transplantation figure 1d.we previously reported that cs increased the abundance of rikenella a genus of ssb and desulfovibrio a genus of srb but did not significantly change the abundance ofa.

cs extracted from cow or pig cartilage is prescribed as a symptomatic slow-acting drug for osteoarthritis oa in 22 countries including the european union but it is still regulated in the usa as a dietary supplement for improving oa jordan 2003. the united states food and drug administration fda denied a request that cs be labeled as reducing the risk of oa and oa-related joint pain tenderness and swelling fda 2004. despite compelling evidence that cs interferes with oa progression verges and castaneda-hernandez 2004 clegg et al.

2006. the results support the assumption that ssb compete with meb and that cs significantly increases the abundance of ssb and restores the a. muciniphila population after ssb are killed by antibiotics.a pro- and anti-inflammatory activities of cs might reflect the temporal and spatial changes of lipopolysaccharide lps content.

2016. theoretically oral cs administration should support the proportional expansion of ssb and srb in the distal gut.we previously reported that daily cs feeding alters the gut microbiota spectrum of mice but the response varied with individual differences figure 1a.

by noting such a frequently ignored phenomenon we urge the development of non-orally administering cs to minimize its side-effects and extend it to other medicinal applications.keywords chondroitin sulfate osteoarthritis gut microbiota probiotic antibiotic opportunistic infection pro-inflammation anti-inflammationchondroitin sulfate cs also known as polysaccharide constituted of alternated residues of n- acetylgalactosamine and glucuronic acid is a naturally o-sulfated glycan in cartilage and bones.

2015. a trend of decrease of anti-inflammatory indicators in the serum following oral cs administration might thus lead to erroneous conclusions of the anti-inflammatory effects of cs.perspectivesthe composition of the gut microbiome influences the pro- and anti-inflammatory activity of cs on aggravation or amelioration of oa via compromise or reinforcement of the colonic mucus barrier.

cs might also ameliorate oa in the presence of normal mucosal immunity and an optimum gut milieu including a. muciniphila.

