however some minor changes were observed in several serum chemistry parameters.in male groups the values of alt in 5 gm canola group and tp alb in 10 gm canola group were significantly increased p  0.05 while the values of ca p tg in 2.5 gm canola group and crea in 5 10 gm canola group were significantly decreased p  0.05 compared with the corresponding non-gm canola groups.

however there were no significant or- ganic pathologic changes on histopathology of related tissues including heart liver and kidney .in females the values of p mg in 2.5 gm group canola and tg in10 gm canola group were significantly increased p  0.05 and the values of crea in 2.5 gm canola group and tp alb glu in 5 gm canola group were significantly decreased p  0.05 compared with the corresponding non-gm canola groups.

these differences were not observed in the high-dose gm canola group compared with the control group althoughthe values of hct mcv mch and mchc in 10 gm canola group were significantly different p  0.05 from the 10 non-gm canola group all these values in 10 gm canola groups were similar to those of the control group.

however these values were similar to those of the control group p  0.05.in females the relative weights of liver kidney ovary in 2.5 gm canola group were significantly higher p  0.05 the relative weights of brain in 5 and 10 gm canola group and spleen in 5 gm canola group were significantly lower p  0.05 than those of corresponding non-gm canola groups.

these differences were not considered to be biologically meaningful because no significant differences were observed in high-dose gm canola group compared with the control group.in females the values of hct mcv and mch in 5 gm canola group were significantly higher p  0.05 and the value of mchc in 5 gm canola was significantly lower p  0.05 compared with the 5 non-gm canola group.

however when compared with the values of the control group none of the values above showed significant differences p  0.05. the ldh in 5 gm canola group was increased p  0.05 when compared with the corresponding non- gm canola group and the control group.

however this difference was not considered to be dose-related because no significant difference was observed in the 10 high-dose gm canola group.organ relative weightsas shown in  in male groups the relative weight of lung in 5 gm canola group and heart in 10 gm canola group were sig- nificantly higher p  0.05 than those of corresponding non-gm ca- nola groups.

however statistically significant differences were still observed in some parameters.on 91st day shown in  in male groups the value of hct in 5 gm canola groups was significantly higher p  0.05 than that of 5 non-gm canola group and the control group but no dose re- lationship occurred in 10 gm canola group.

the rbc in 5 gm canola group were significantly decreased p  0.05 compared with the 5 non-gm canola group and the control group but no dose relationship was observed in 10 gm canola group.serum chemistryserum chemistry results were shown in .

besides tissues of rats from control group 10 non-gm canola group and 10 gm canola group were prepared for the histopathological analysis.

the ldh in 10 gm canola group was significantly higher p  0.05 than that of the 10 non-gm canola group or control group.

however these values were similar to those of the control group p  0.05. the relative weight of spleen in 2.5 gm canola groups was higher p  0.05 than that of the corre- sponding non-gm canola group and control group.

up to 2015 the global area of gm crops reached up to 179.9 million hectares which is equivalent to almost 20 of the whole land area of the usa 937 million hectares or china 956 million hectares .to assess the food safety of the gm canola rf3 the general tox- icological effects as well as the influence on gut microbiota were evaluated in our study.several significant differences were noticed among sd rats con- suming non-gm canola diets and gm canola diets in the 90-day feedingtable 5organbody weight ratios of rats fed with different diets n  10group mean - sd .a p  0.05 compared to the control group.b p  0.05 compared to the corresponding non-gm canola groups.fig.

according to nmds plots and anosim analysis in our studyobvious divergences p  0.05 of the community structure of the gut microbiota between the control groups and 10 non-gm groups or 10 gm groups were observed c-d. however there were no sig- nificant differences between 10 non-gm groups and 10 gm groups p  0.05 c-d. this result may be caused by the addition of canola into the diet rather than the gm ingredient.

a lefse analysis was performed using the default parameters to determine the main genus profiles which could distinguish between non-gm canola group and gm canola group .statistical analysisthe values of body weight feed utilization hematology blood chemistry and relative organ weight mentioned before were showed as the mean - standard deviation s.d.. the homogeneity in variance of the female and male data separately was assessed by a one-way analysis of variance anova analysis followed by t-test using spss 13.0 soft- ware.

