to generate amore complete picture of the bacterial species and func- tional diversity we aimed to collect an extensive set of gut isolates from 60 bumblebees belonging to four bombus species to accurately identify all isolates to the species level and to analyse their functional potential.resultsmicrobial diversity of the bumblebee guta total of 1940 isolates was collected from gut samples of 60 bumblebees representing four bombus species sup- porting information table s2.

if a species was represented by several maldi-tof ms clusters the number of clusters is given next to the species name.vc 2017 society for applied microbiology and john wiley  sons ltd environmental microbiology 20 214-227216 j. praet et al.table 1. relative abundance of the reads for each phylotype otu for the four analyzed bumblebee species.

2016.in conclusion in the present study we collected 1940 isolates from gut samples of 60 bumblebees representing four bombus species and demonstrated that the bacterial species diversity in these bombus species exceeded that suggested by phylotype analysis through 16s rrna ampli- con sequencing.

the bacterial species diversity in these bombus species exceeded that suggested by phylotype analysis through 16s rrna amplicon sequencing and revealed that b. pascuorum and b. terrestris had a unique microbiota composition each.

1. a major fraction of the species isolated n 5 21 consisted of lab and bifidobacteria.to evaluate if all predominant taxa were isolated 16s rrna amplicon sequencing was performed on gut samples pooled according to bumblebee species.

1. prevalence of isolated microbial species per bumblebee species analyzed.

1 indicate that yeast species can be quite prevalent in the bumblebee gut and that a proper evaluation of the yeast diversity and of their functional role is mandatory.our data demonstrated that the bacterial species diver- sity of the bumblebee gut is underestimated.

several phylotypes detected through 16s rrna amplicon sequenc- ing consisted of multiple species four novel gilliamella species gamma-1 a. mensalis bacteroidetes and l. bombicola firm-5lacto-1 were first isolated in the course of the present study praet et al.

the percentage of bumblebees from which a particular microbial species was isolated per bumblebee species results.

environmental microbiology 2018 201 214-227doi10.11111462-2920.13973large-scale cultivation of the bumblebee gut microbiota reveals an underestimated bacterial species diversity capable of pathogen inhibitionjessy praet1 anneleen parmentier2 regula schmid-hempel3 ivan meeus2 guy smagghe2 and peter vandamme1 1laboratory of microbiology department ofbiochemistry and microbiology faculty of sciences ghent university k. l. ledeganckstraat 35ghent b-9000 belgium.2laboratory of agrozoology department of crop protection faculty of bioscience engineering ghent university belgium.3institute of integrative biology ibz eth zueurrich zueurrich switzerland.summarya total of 1940 isolates from gut samples of 60 bum- blebees representing bombus pascuorum bombus terrestris bombus lucorum and bombus lapidarius was collected and identified through state-of the-art taxonomic methods.

representatives of most phylotypes reported earlier and detected in the present study were effec- tively isolated and included several novel bacterial taxa and species reported for the first time in the bumblebee gut.

2013 reported that gut microbiota composition and richness differed sig- nificantly between certain bumblebee species and that the gut microbiota composition was consistent over different locations koch and schmid-hempel 2011a koch et al.

2016. the functional potential of these micro-organisms however may be strain specific as a con- siderable part of bacterial ecological adaption is encoded in the accessory rather than core genome lapierre and gogarten 2009. in addition the species diversity of the bumblebee gut microbiota as revealed by 16s rrna ampli- con sequencing may be considerably underestimated as typically fragments of only 250 base pairs are sequenced which limits the taxonomic resolution to that of the genus or even family level clarridge 2004. the availability of microbial isolates will facilitate proper evaluation of the functional potential of the gut microbiota.

their maldi-tof ms profiles grouped into 67 clusters which corresponded to 52 species as revealed by subsequent gene sequence analyses fig.

several species were represented by multi- ple maldi-tof ms clusters fig.

