microbiota composition in feces of nd-fed mice treated with or without high dose of op-d and hfd mice treated with 2 doses of op-d were analyzed using next generation sequencing n  5 continued on next pageop-d alleviates metabolic syndrome1145significant separation in the microbiota between nd- and hfd-fed mice and between hfd and hfd  op-d groups suggesting that op-d treatment shifted the overall structure of the gut microbiota of hfd-fed mice toward that of nd-fed mice fig.

more importantly the effects of op-d on modulation of obesity and microbiota were transferable via horizontal feces transfer from op-d-treated mice to hfd-fed mice.

for example obese obob mice display a decreased number of bacteroidetes with a corresponding increase in firmicutes compared to lean mice from the same litter 8. in agreement with the results of animal studies human studies have found that obese individuals have a significantly greater firmicutes to bacteroidetes fb ratio than their lean counterparts although these findings are still a subject of debate 14. studies using germ-free recipient animals and the feces transplantation technique showed that dysregulation of the gut microbiota function and structure increased the risk of obesity and its complications suggesting that changes in gut microbiota occur before the de- velopment of obesity 14. conversely obesity further worsens the abnormalities of gut microbiota forming a vicious circle 15 16. thus correction of gut dys- biosis has become a promising strategy to treat obesity by drug or nutritional intervention 17 18.compared to popular western antiobesity drugschemical monomers isolated from natural plants demon- strate distinct advantages such as extensive resources fewer adverse effects low cost and definitive action in counteracting obesity 19. interestingly these compounds may target the gut microbiota.

to induce obesity mice were fed with either a hfd fat content 60 research diets new brunswick nj usa or normal diet nd for 2 mo 31. after that the mice were randomly divided into 5 groups nd group nd  op-d high dose h group hfd group hfd  op-d low dose l group and hfd  op-d h group n  5 per group.

mice of the l and h op-d groups received daily intragastric administration of op-d 0.2 and 1 mgkg body weight re- spectively and mice of the nd and hfd groups received an equal volume of 0.9 saline solution administrated in the same way.

at the end of the experiment mice were unfed for 6 h and then were humanely killed for the collection of blood and liver samples.tolerance testsforthe glucose tolerance test gtt mice were unfed for 16 h and then injected i.p.

next we performed gtt ptt and itt assays in these mice and found that mice fed a hfd displayed glucose and pyru- vate intolerance as well as insulin resistance.

4c d indicating that op-d had a more profound effect on the composition of the gut microbial community in hfd-fed mice than in nd-fed mice.

5a the body weight of hfd-fed mice that received feces from hfd-fed mice denoted as hfd-hfd group signifi- cantly increased.

32 march 2018the faseb journal x chen et al.figure 5. obesity-associated metabolic syndromes are reversed by feces transplantation from op-d-treated mice to hfd-fed mice.

on the other hand op-d demonstrated satisfying effects on the improvement of energy metabolism in hfd- fed mice while the concentrations of op-d in plasma and liver were barely detectable when administered to mice through gavage supplemental table s2.

first proteobacteria are con- sidered the main pathogenic bacteria expressing endo- toxins 53. the increased concentration of proteobacteria is believed to be the reason for the increased level of endotoxins and of liver damage observed in hfd-fed mice 54. second the lachnospiraceae family which be- longs to the firmicutes phylum is supposed to facilitate lps transfer from the intestinal tract to the blood 43. in contrast the rikenellaceae family enriched by adminis- tration of polyphenol-rich pomegranate extract poten- tially contributes to the reduction of insulin-induced endotoxemia as evidenced by the reduction of serum lps and mcp-1 levels 55. in our study high-dose ad- ministration of op-d reduced the proteobacteria phylum by 33.1 in the feces of hfd-fed mice fig.

a recent study sug- gested that firmicutes and bacteroidetes potentially mediate insulin resistance through modulation of glucagon-like peptide 1 glp-1 secretion in obesity 64. the levels of glp-1 increased when the abundance of firmicutes and bacteroidetes decreased which could be the cause of the change in insulin sensitivity in mice with diet- induced obesity 64. we also noticed that the antidi- abetic effects of ginsenosides another member of the saponin family may be mediated by increased glp-1 secretion 65. in addition short chain fatty acids scfas such as acetate propionate and butyrate play critical roles in the amelioration of chronic in- flammatory diseases and the promotion of colonocyte health 66. scfas are produced by fermentation of polysaccharides and some other prebiotics by gut bacteria such as bacteroides 67. because the abun- dance of bacteroides was enhanced in mice fed a hfd by treatment with 1 mgkg op-d it is possible that the amount of scfas may also increase in this setting contributing to the antiobesity effect of op-d. more- over it has been reported that production of glp-1 is also induced by scfas through g protein-coupled receptors leading to the activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma a-induced fatty acid oxidation and the inhibition of srebps in livers 68 69. on the basis of these findings the microbiota-scfa-glp-1 axis may relay the signals from the reshaping of gut microbiota compositions to metabolic changes in the liver.we noticed that a dose-dependent response to op-dlimited the physiologic changes but not the gut microbiota composition.

4c d indicating that op-d had a more profound effect on the composition of the gut microbial com- munity in hfd-fed mice than in the nd-fed mice.

here we show that op-d administration reduces body weight hyperglycemia hyperlipidemia and insulin resistance in male mice fed a high-fat diet hfd.

