for example bacteria may translocate and participate in the onset of type 2 diabetes in mouse models of the disease.7 thus translocation of living bacteria suggests the circulation of living bacteria in the bloodstream and that the blood microbiome could be a true player in ald.

according to thework of puri and colleagues published in this issue of hepatology1 alcoholic liver disease ald may be a noncommunicable disease associated with bacteria that circulate in a sterile environment such as the cir- culatory system the first demonstration that bacteria play a role in the pathophysiology of ald came from studies on the involvement of endotoxins.

in addition blood and intestinal microbiomes dif- fer considerably from each other suggesting that the intestinal barrier host defense and liver may act as filters.6we currently do not know whether the circulating microbiome is only a bystander to what happens mainly in the gut and possibly the liver or a true player in the pathophysiology of ald.

even in the absence of living bacteria a circulating microbiome could play a role by mechanisms other than transloca- tion for example by modifying host immune function.the presence of bacterial content or of possibly liv-ing bacteria in the blood is a truly new paradigm.

moreover the patients with severe alcoholic hepatitis displayed increased isoprenoid synthesis through mevalonate and anthranilate degradation known modulators of gram- positive bacterial growth and biofilm production respectively.1this study has several strengths it shows that there is a specific circulating microbiome in ald which can vary according to the severity of liver injury possi- bly representing a specific signature.

we can hope that study of the blood microbiome in clinical practice will circumvent some of these limitations.if a specific signature of the blood microbiome is associated with each stage of ald severity it will be possible to more accurately phenotype patients than with the current diagnostic tools.

00 2017circulating bugs in blood in alcoholic liver disease see article on page xe often equate bacteria with infectious dis- eases.

the mechanisms involved in increased gut permeabil- ity include dysregulation of epithelial tight junction proteins and alterations of the mucus layer2 and host defenses against bacteria such as antimicrobial defen- sin peptide levels.5puri and colleagues determined the circulating blood microbiome using innovative methods that allow quali- tative and quantitative analyses of bacterial dna.

individual susceptibility to alcohol-induced liver injury has now been shown to be substantially driven by the im.2 moreover the manipulation of bacterial species of the im by fecal transfer2 or the addition of probi- otics or fiber such as pectin3 to the diet has shown that it is possible to prevent and even improve alcohol- induced liver lesions.

nevertheless there are also some limitations the absence of liver1perlemuterhepatology month 2017biopsy precludes any strong correlation between liver lesions and the circulating microbiome.

despite many limita- tions a pilot study has shown that changes in blood microbiota profiles are associated with liver fibrosis in obese patients.9 the level of circulating bacterial dna before treatment could thus identify severe alco- holic hepatitis patients at high risk of infection if given prednisolone.10 accordingly we can imagine that a biomarker based on the blood microbiome may predict the occurrence of complications and the prognosis of patients.

dormant bacteria can indeed return to a state of replication depending on the experimental conditions.8 many additional studies will be necessary to precisely identify the role of the blood microbiome.the findings of puri and colleagues open new ave- nues to understanding ald pathophysiology.

in liver lps contributes to the activation of kupffer and hepatic stellate cells paving the way for alcoholic hepa- titis and fibrosis.technical difficulties in studying the im previously hampered advances in our knowledge of its role in ald.

however the development of new and less costly dna sequencing technologies over the last few years has led to a large gain in our knowledgeconcerning the im and its roles in the relationship between the gut and the liver particularly in ald.

moreover the connection between the anticipated pathophysiological mechanisms of ald and the functional relevance of the circulating microbiome is logical.

