no significantly higher levels of otus shannon or chao1 indices were seen between the adult and juvenile giraffes.the predominant bacterial phylum was firmicutes for both adult and juvenile giraffes ranging from 38.0 to 60.6 of the sequences table .

the best explanation to the distinc- tions between the two studies could be that there were smallsample sizes five adult animalsstudy as well as differences in diet.in our study at the genus level in the two juvenile giraffes the most predominant genus was bacteroides detected at 20.2 of the sequences in lily and acinetobacter detected at 22.5 of the sequences in forrest.

for bacteria a total of 747 223 sequences were analyzed for all animal samples with 640 700 quality sequences ranging from 64168 to 123063 sequences.

for fungi a total of 991 751 sequences were analyzed for all animals with 961 961 quality sequences ranging from 61560 to 283111 sequences.

as well in both adult and juve- nile animals a high abundance of bacteroidetes 26.0-37.6 of the sequences was also detected.

in each of the adult giraffes proteobacteria was detected at less than 1 of the sequences.

however treponema were the most predominant in the adult giraffes ranging from 17.4 to 24.7 of the sequences table s6.

there was no statistically significant differ- ence found between the adult and juvenile giraffes eithertable 2 the fungal community composition at the phylum levelarelative proportion percentage of sequences  standard error of the meanbold indicates the most predominant phylumphyla.

interestingly proteobacteria was detected at approximately 23 of the sequences in one fecal sample but only at approximately 1 of the sequences from the other juvenile giraffe.

to follow up on those results in order to create a better bench- mark for future work.materials and methodsanimals and sample collectionthere were five adult and two juvenile giraffes included in this study all living in the jacksonville zoo and gardens fl.

in the adult group there was one male duke and four females naomi luna spock faraja ranging from 9 to 19 years old weighting between 589.67 and 921.25 kg.

the diets of the five adult giraffes consisted of alfalfa and a mixture of mazuri grain wild herbivore diet adf 16 herbivore diet and wild herbivore plus diet.

however the adult male duke was kept separate overnight.the fecal material from seven giraffes were collected in december 2016. all samples were collected off the floor immediately after they were produced and placed in sterile tubes.

finally otus were taxonomically classi- fied using blastn against a curated database mr dna shallowater tx derived from rdpii and ncbi  and .diversity indices and the microbial abundance at the phylum level were compared between adult and juve- nile giraffes using the student's t test.

in the present study the fecal material from five adult giraffes and two juvenile giraffes both 7 months old was analyzed in this study.

