these include but are not limited to various a-helical peptides b-sheet peptides linear peptides hybrid and synthetic peptides  -.bioproduction physicochemical properties and functions of ampsantimicrobial peptides are small molecular weight oligopeptides that is they generally comprise 5-40 amino acid residues with few exceptions.

in yet another example the fusion peptide mg2a which was synthesized by conjugating mgn-ii to the nh2-terminal of the cell-penetrating peptide penetratin antp exhibited augmented cytotoxicity against a variety of human cancer cells and rat glioma cells while having very limited off-target effects on normal cells .minor therapeutic classes of ampsstructurally ltx-302 is a 9-mer peptide derived from its parental peptide lfcinb and features an a-helical secondary structure optimized to exert greater antitumor activity -.

novexatin np-213 a cyclic and highly cationic peptide based on humana- and b-defensins has shown promise in treating recalcitrant fungal infections in toenails while czen-002 a dimeric peptide sequentially derived from a-melanocyte-stimulating hormone is targeting vaginal candidiasis .antimicrobial peptides are only beginning to encroach into the oncological sphere and therefore efficacy data are relatively limited .

considering that these in vitro malignant phenotypic traits correlate with a pri- mary tumor's propensity to establish life-threatening metastatic outgrowths the finding that defensins are effective at repressing cancer cell motility suggests that they can be developed as poten- tial antimetastatic agents .furthermore natural defensins appear to exert antiprolifera- tive and proapoptotic effects on cancer cells and to induce cell cycle arrest  - which are evidenced by increases in the levels of phosphorylated retinoblastoma protein suppressed activities of transcriptional and cell cycle cyclin-dependent kinases and their catalytic cyclin partners  and enhanced expression of caspase 7 and 9 and other markers of apoptosis.

studies have demonstrated that the treatment of a range of human cancer cell lines with temporin-1cea rapidly induces tumor cell death by disrupting their cell membrane and mitochondria  .

depending on the site of synthesis amps are broadly classified as non-ribosomal peptides nramps if they are synthesized in the cytosol of bacteria and fungi or ribosomal peptides ramps when they are synthesized in the ribosomes of both prokaryotes and eukaryotes  .

amps are mostly cationic with a net charge at neutral ph ranging between 2 and 9 due to the presence of positively charged residues typically lysine lys and arginine arg which endow these peptides with the ability to engage with and disrupt microorganismal membranes.these peptides can effectively impinge on a broad spectrum of microorganisms including fungi bacteria and viruses .

whereas in the context of oncologic indications these biologics remain experimental  it should be noted that several amps have transitioned to phase ii clinical trial evaluation or have even obtained u.s. food and drug administration approval for use in the treatment of various infectious diseases   such as pexiganan acetate msi-78  hlf1-11  omiga- nan mbi-226  czen-002 and novexatin np-213  .table 1  antimicrobial peptides for oncologic indications in ongoing clinical trials.phasepeptide nameidentifier numberconditionadministration routell37nct02225366metastatic melanomaintratumoral grn-1201nct02696356solid tumorsintravenousltx-315nct01058616solid tumorsintravenous wt-2725nct01621542hematological malignancy and solid tumorsintravenoussgx942nct02013050head and neck cancerintravenous ang-1005nct02048059breast and brain metastasisintravenousitk-1umin000011308glioblastoma and prostate cancerintravenoustable 2  antimicrobial peptides for infectious diseases indications in ongoing clinical trials.the first amp developed commercially was pexiganan acetate msi-78 .

tested the effects of chrysophsin-1 on a wide panel of cancer cell lines  and showed that low-dose chrysophsin-1 selectively culls tumor cells via a membrane-depolarizing lytic mechanism .dermaseptins b1-b6 are six related peptides of 24-33 residues in length which are constitutively expressed in the skin secretions of the south american frog phyllomedusa bicolor.

peptides 2003 247945-53. doliu s yang h wan l cheng j lu x. penetratin-mediated delivery enhances the antitumor activity of the cationic antimicrobial peptide magainin ii.

science 1999 2865439498-502. doshai y. mechanism of the binding insertion and destabilization of phospho- lipid bilayer membranes by a-helical antimicrobial and cell non-selective membrane-lytic peptides.

peptides 2010 3181494-503. doxia l wu y ma j yang j zhang f. the antibacterial peptide from bombyx mori cecropinxj induced growth arrest and apoptosis in human hepatocellu- lar carcinoma cells.

peptides 2011 325900-10. dowang kr yan jx zhang bz song jj jia pf wang r. novel mode of action of polybia-mpi a novel antimicrobial peptide in multi-drug resistant leukemic cells.

again as with a recurring theme regarding amps cecropins a and b have been shown to have selective cytotoxic and cytostatic effects on bladder neoplasms but not on human fibroblast cell lines  while abp-dhc-cecropin a and its analog abp-dhc-cecropin a-k are cytotoxic against leukemic but not non-cancerous cell lines .

as an ionophoric peptide with a helical struc- ture it has been shown to perforate cancer cell membranes to act as ion channels causing cytolysis of cancerous cells .

