Orange OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment aggravated the HFD-induced increasedecrease blue OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment restored the HFD-induced increasedecrease in both the LD and HD groups and the restoration effect was consistent with the dosered OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment restored the HFD-induced increasedecrease in both the LD and HD groups but the restoration effect was inconsistent with the dose green OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment restored the HFD-induced increasedecrease in either the LD or HD group.

Orange OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment aggravated the HFD-induced increasedecrease blue OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment restored the HFD-induced increasedecrease in both the LD and HD groups and the restoration effect was consistent with the dosered OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment restored the HFD-induced increasedecrease in both the LD and HD groups but the restoration effect was inconsistent with the dose green OTUs OTUs where krill oil treatment restored the HFD-induced increasedecrease in either the LD or HD group.

However fecal microbiota do not represent all the microbial communities in the GI tract and the microbiota is altered by the spatial location within the intestine Zhao et al.

The abundance profiles of Delftia Serratia and Streptococcus in the fecal microbiota were consistent with those in the ileal microbiota and only the abundance profile of Lactobacillus in the fecal micriobiota was consistent with that in the colon microbiota.

The large intestine is involved in fat deposition and metabolism due to the higher proportions of Firmicutes and metabolic microbiota Zhao et al.

In addition the microbiota structural alterations obtained from fecal sam- ple sequencing showed that low-dose LD and moderate- dose MD treatments shift the structure to that of the control group while the HD group has a unique pattern that differs from that of the high-fat diet HFD and control groups Lu et al.

The specific phylotypes that were altered by the HFD andor krill oil were screened by redundancy analysis RDA models Xu et al.

Control standard diet HFD high-fat diet LD high-fat diet supplemented with low-dose krill oil 100 mg g day-1 HD high-fat diet supplemented with high-dose krill oil 600 mg g day-1 and OTUs operational taxonomic unitsAt the phylum level the ileal microbiota in the control group consisted of Firmicutes 48.9 Bacteroidetes 18.2 and Proteobacteria 16.3 and the HFD treatment increased the abundance of Firmicutes to 60 p  0.05 while it decreased the ratios of Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria to 13.2 p  0.05 and 7.4 p  0.01 re- spectively.

A high-fiber diet alters the gut microbiota and alleviates the symptoms of hypertension and heart failure in hypertensive mice Marques et al.

Recently 16S rRNA gene se- quencing of fecal samples shows that krill oil treatment alle- viates hyperlipidemia and fecal microbiota in a dose- dependent manner moreover high-dose HD krill oil simul- taneously promotes the amelioration of hyperlipidemia and obesity Lu et al.

