microbiota.abstractintroduccion el lupus eritematoso sistemico es una enfermedad inflamatoria cronica en la que esta implicado el estres oxidativo.objetivo evaluar la concentracion de antioxidantes de la dieta y sanguineos asi como de la microbiota sobre las concentraciones de malond- ialdehido y proteina c reactiva en 21 pacientes de lupus y 21 controles pareados por edad y sexo.metodos los parametros bioquimicos de rutina y proteina c reactiva se determinaron a traves de metodos enzimaticos cobre zinc y selenio por espectrometria de masas malondialdehido y capacidad antioxidante total por metodos espectrofotometricos la microbiota fecal por tecnicas metagenomicas y la dieta a traves de cuestionarios de frecuencia de consumo.resultados no se han observado diferencias en la dieta en los pacientes con lupus respecto al grupo control excepto en la ingesta de acidos grasos trans siendo mayor en el grupo de lupus.

la presencia de anti-ssaro en lupicas se relaciona con mayores concentraciones de zinc.conclusion estos resultados podrian ser utiles para profundizar en el futuro conocimiento de esta compleja enfermedad.resumenbackground systemic lupus erythematosus sle is a chronic inflammatory disease of autoimmune nature in which oxidative stress is implicated.aim compare the concentrations of dietary and blood antioxidants as well as gut microbiota with serum malondialdehyde mda and c reactive protein crp in 21 subjects suffering from non-active systemic lupus erythematosus sle and 21 age and gender-matched controls.methods general biochemical parameters and crp were determined by enzymatic methods copper zinc and selenium by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry icp-ms mda and total antioxidant capacity tac by spectrophotometric methods gut microbiota by metagenomic analyses and dietary intake by means of food frequency questionnaire.results no significant differences were found in diet between lupus patients and the control group with the exception of trans fatty acids intake which was higher in patients.

on the other hand the lower levels of serum zinc found in sle subjects compared to controls were similar to those reported in other studies carried out with sle population 1718. it has been hypothesized that this decrease could be a result of a defense mechanism of the body against oxidative stress given that the use of zinc as a cofactor for the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dis- mutase might compromise the amount of this trace element avail- able in blood 3243-46. in addition as it has been described sle subjects in our sample with specific disease features andor anti ssaro negative had lower levels of serum zinc in compari- son with the rest of the patients the latter being similar to those reported in the controls 47-49. therefore although the numberof subjects and the nature of the study do not allow establishing causality or directionality these results could be useful in future for other studies aimed at clarifying the role of zinc in the presence of these clinical features.we have not found statistically significant differences in the levels of crp in sle patients in respect to controls probably because of their non-active disease at sampling.

recently lower serum levels of zinc and selenium in sle patients respect to healthy controls have been reported being serum copper concentrations inversely associated with the disease activity 1718. thus the present study was designed to compare the concentrations of antioxidants pro-oxidants major microbial groups mda and crp in sle patients and healthy controls.table i. general characteristics in systemic lupus erythematosus sle patients and controlsbmi body mass index.

results presented as mean - sd and percentage.subjects and methods volunteersthe study sample comprised 21 patients of sle selected from the updated asturian register of lupus 19. all of them fulfilled at least four of the american college of rheumatology criteria for sle 20 were women of caucasian origin aged between 27 and 70 years and had non-active disease at the time of sampling systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index sledai score  8. this study is framed within a multidisciplinary project entitled towards a better understanding of gut microbiota func- tionality in some immune disorders whose main aim was to characterize the intestinal microbiota composition in sle patients.

aderived from pearson's bivariate correlation analyses.association of these components with the concentration of c-re- active protein and some clinical features of this pathology is the most important finding of this paper together with the detection of a direct association between the concentration of this inflam- matory biomarker and the fecal proportions of lentisphaerae proteobacteria and verrucomicrobia.although the literature about this topic is scarce lipid per- oxidation has been reported in other studies with sle patients 11123132. we are aware that a single marker is not sufficient to denote oxidative stress but mda is one of the most abundant products of lipid peroxidation and probably the most frequentlyused in humans 33. the similar levels of mda found between our lupus patients and controls do not confirm previous evidence being one of the possible reasons that patients were in a non-active phase of the disease at the time of sampling.

la concentracion de cobre en suero se relaciono directamente con los niveles de proteina c reactiva y esta proteina a su vez con la proporcion de lentisphaerae proteobacteria y verrucomicrobia en heces.

twenty-one age-matched healthy women from the same population were recruited as controls.ethics approval for this study reference code agl2010- 14952 was obtained from the bioethics committee of csic consejo superior de investigaciones cientificas and from the regional ethics committee for clinical research servicio de salud del principado de asturias in compliance with the declaration of helsinki.

tablas de composicion de alimentos por medidas caseras de consumo habitual en espana.

spaine-mail introductionsystemic lupus erythematosus sle is a multisystem autoim- mune disease characterized by the presence of autoantibodies against self-antigens especially those directed to double-stranded dna and other nuclear components resulting in tissue damage 12. as occurs with other autoimmune diseases inflammation and oxidative stress are frequent in the course of sle 34. according to this some authors have reported higher levels of the biomarker of inflammation c-reactive protein crp in these chronic patients compared to controls 4-6. although the cause of this pathology is unknown accumulating evidence suggests that its development is conditioned by genetic hormonal and environ- mental factors 78 including gut microbiota.

the conventional probability value for significance 0.05 was used in the interpretation of results.resultsgeneral characteristics of sle patients and controls are listed in table i. sle sample could be defined as a group of women with a mean age of 48.14 - 11.53 years old bmi indicative of mod- erate overweight and a body fat percentage over the recommen- dations 30. only a small percentage of the sample was smoker and less than 50 was sedentary.

there were no differences in any of the studied variables between sle and controls table i. clinical features of sle patients are described in table ii.

in line with this some authors have found higher levels of this lipoperoxidation marker 9.23 um in active sle patients sledai score around 40 of similar age 12 so it seems feasible that the severity of the disease could determine the degree of oxidative damage in sle.

in relation to this it has been documented that the gut microbiota displays low levels of firmicutes in some diseases involving intestinal or extra-intestinal inflammation and oxidative stress such as crohn's disease 34 ulcerative coli- tis 35 and other immune-mediated inflammatory diseases 36. indeed the microbiota of inflammatory bowel disease ibd patients has a low abundance of faecalibacterium prausnitzii a member of this phylum with a known and well characterized anti-inflammatory effect 34-37. in spite of the fact that the absence of differences in total antioxidant capacity between sle and controls is in agreement with previous studies in sle subjects 3839 there is no consensus about it in the literature.

lps has been involved in a variety of inflammatory processes and could partially explain the association between the levels of crp with a higher abundance of these bacteria 53.finally as in other autoimmune diseases our results revealed increased levels of serum copper in sle subjects 1617. this result could be explained by the increase in the synthesis of hepat- ic ceruloplasmin and the subsequent release into the blood in response to a higher production of some inflammation markers increased in this pathology such as il-6 and il-1 16. our find- ing of a positive association between this element and crp is in accordance with this hypothesis.despite the relatively limited statistical power our analyses revealed the absence of increased levels of lipid peroxidation and crp in sle patients in a non-active phase of the disease.

