2017 december  1412 699-700. doi10.1038nrcardio.2017.169.association between the gut microbiome and atherosclerosiswilliam t. barrington and aldons j. lusisdepartments of microbiology medicine and human genetics university of california los angeles los angeles california 90095-1679 usaabstractthe gut microbiota has been associated with many different disorders including cardiovascular diseases.

they also investigated the association between the microbiome and several other diseases and modelled the prediction of disease based on microbiome composition fig.

the researchers note considerable overlap between the microbiome composition in this ascvd cohort and the composition in studies of other cardiometabolic diseases including obesity type 2 diabetes mellitus and liver cirrhosis suggesting that the microbial shifts might be indicative of poor metabolic health in general rather than being directly related to ascvd.an understanding of the link between microbiota and disease is of considerable clinical relevance.

a new study by jie and colleagues is the first large case-control study to examine directly the enrichment of certain communities of gut bacteria in patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease compared with control individuals.in a new study published in nature communications jie and colleagues performed shotgun sequencing of the gut microbiome in a chinese cohort of 218 patients with atherosclerotic cardio vascular disease ascvd and 187 healthy controls1.

they observed several significant associations between the microbiota taxa and disease status strengthening the evidence for the inclusion of ascvd in the ever-expanding list of microbiota- associated diseases.

1.previous studies primarily in animal models have identified several potential mechanisms by which the gut microbiota could contribute to ascvd2.

the investigators have partially addressed the issue of confounding by medication use that is are the medications taken by the patients responsible for the associations but other potential confounders such as dietary differences that could perturb the microbiota are difficult to address.

first there is the potential for drugging the microbiome.

second dietary recommendations might be adjusted according to an individual's microbiome as demonstrated in the prediction of glycaemic response8.

third as explored by jie et al.1 disease diagnosis might be based on the use of microorganisms as biomarkers9.replicating these associations between microbiota and diseases will be important.

clearly investigations into the interactions between the host and the gut microbiome have the potential to transform medicine.acknowledgmentsthe authors are supported by nih grants hl30568 and hl28481.referencesjie z et al.

the gut microbiome in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.

2017 8845. pubmed 29018189jonsson al backhed f. role of gut microbiota in atherosclerosis.

unraveling the environmental and genetic interactions in atherosclerosis central role of the gut microbiota.

gut microbiota and atherosclerosis.

