Metagenomic studies revealed functional differences in gut bacteria in R including enrichment of anabolic pathways.Immune profiling suggested enhanced systemic and anti-tumor immunity in responding patients with a favorable gut microbiome as well as in germ-free mice receiving fecal transplants from responding patients.

Based on these data we examined the diversity of the oral and gut microbiomes in eligible patients on anti-PD1 therapy and found that alpha diversity of the gut microbiome was significantly higher in R n30 compared to NR n13 using several indices p0.01 Fig.

S16.Next we sought to gain insight into the mechanism through which the gut microbiome may influence response to anti-PD-1 therapy and first conducted functional genomic profiling of gut microbiome samples via metagenomic WGS sequencing n25 in R n14 vs NR n11.

S16 and table S7.There is clear evidence in pre-clinical models that differential composition of the gut microbiome may influence therapeutic responses to anti-PD-1 therapy at the level of the tumor microenvironment 12 thus we next examined the relationship between the gut microbiota and systemic and anti-tumor immune responses in our cohort of patients on anti- PD-1 therapy.

Pairwise comparisons using Spearman rank correlations were then performed between specific bacterial taxa enriched in the gut microbiome of R and NR and immune markers in the tumor microenvironment demonstrating a statistically significant positive correlation between the CD8 T cell infiltrate in the tumor and abundance of the FaecalibacteriumGopalakrishnan et al.Page 5genus the Ruminococcaceae family and the Clostridiales order in the gut and a non- significant but negative correlation with Bacteroidales Fig.

Analysis of systemic immune responses via flow cytometry and cytokine assays revealed that patients with a high abundance of Clostridiales Ruminococcaceae or Faecalibacterium in the gut had higher levels of effector CD4 and CD8 T cells in the systemic circulation with a preserved cytokine response to anti-PD-1 therapy whereas patients with a higher abundance of Bacteroidales in the gut microbiome had higher levels of regulatory T cells Treg and myeloid derived suppressor cells MDSC in the systemic circulation with a blunted cytokine response Fig.

S24 and S25 suggesting a possible mechanism through which the gut microbiome may modulate anti-tumor immune responses 12 though this must be validated in a larger cohort.To investigate a causal link between a favorable gut microbiome and response to immune checkpoint blockade we performed Fecal Microbiome Transplantation FMT experiments in germ-free recipient mice Fig.

2018 January 05 3596371 97-103. doi10.1126science.aan4236.Gut microbiome modulates response to anti-PD-1 immunotherapy in melanoma patientsA full list of authors and affiliations appears at the end of the article.Pre-clinical mouse models suggest that the gut microbiome modulates tumor response to checkpoint blockade immunotherapy however this has not been well-characterized in human cancer patients.

Here we examined the oral and gut microbiome of melanoma patients undergoing anti-PD-1 immunotherapy n112.

Significant differences were observed in the diversity and composition of the patient gut microbiome of responders R versus non-responders NR.

