have done a very interesting research using a novel biomarker based on fecal Clostrisium symbiosum to improve the detection of early and advanced colorectal cancer .

Combining the abundance of Clostrisium symbiosum and FIT may further improve the noninvasive diagnosis of early CRC.In addition the cost of the screening test is an important factor to consider when it is used as a screening modality for population-based programmes.

Removal of premalignant adenomas can prevent the cancer and removal of localized cancer may prevent CRC-related death.Most colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps that prog- ress from small to large polyps and then to cancer.

They measured Clostrisium symbiosum by qPCR in 781 cases including 242 healthy controls 212 patients with colorectal adenoma CRA 109 pa- tients with early CRC 218 patients with advanced CRC.

They concluded that fecal Clostrisium symbiosum is a novel biomarker for early and non-invasive detection of colorectal neoplasia being more effective than reported markers such as Fusobacterium nucleatum FIT and CEA.

Luke's International University Tokyo 104-8560 Japana r t i c l ei n f o Article historyReceived 19 October 2017Accepted 19 October 2017Available online 19 October 2017Colorectal cancer CRC is the second leading cause of cancer death and accounts for approximately 9 of cancer deaths.

While the commercial multitarget stool DNA costs over US600 and may not be cost-effective for a screening setting   the addition of a single marker Clostrisium symbiosum may substantially reduce the cost.

Significant step- wise increase of Clostrisium symbiosum was found in CRA early CRC and advanced CRC p b 0.01.

However a substantial propor- tion of the population has not undergone CRC screening due to health seeking behaviors public resources healthcare accessibility and limita- tions of the screening tests.

The combination of Clostrisium symbiosum and FIT achieved the highest performance AUC  0.83 for development co- hort and 0.707 for validation cohort.

