The raw read counts from the 16S OTU abundance table were collapsed at taxonomic rank and composi- tionally normalized such that each sample sums to 1.The relative sequence abundance referred to as rela- tive abundance from this point forward in the text of the bacterial populations at the respective taxonomic rank were analyzed using the MIXED procedure of SAS with repeated measures version 9.3 SAS Institute Inc. Cary NC as described by Rico et al.

The MFD d 10 was typified by a reduction in the relative sequence abundance of Bacteroidetes and an increase in the relative sequence abundance of Firmicutes and Actinobacteria across both fractions.

In the solid fraction Table 3 the relative abundance of unclassified Clostridiales 14.5 unclassified Lachnospiraceae 14.0 unclassi-fied Ruminococcaceae 5.5 Butyrivibrio 3.3 and Bulleidia 0.8 were found to be the most dominant genera.Actinobacteria Cyanobacteria Fibrobacteres Pro- teobacteria Spirochaetes Tenericutes and TM7 were among the phyla whose relative abundance was less than 1.

Among the Bacteroidetes members mostgenera were observed to be lower P  0.01 in relative abundance in the liquid fraction Table 2 Supplemen- tal Table S5 and Supplemental Figure S4  whereas only the most dominant genera such as unclassified Bacteroidales and Prevotella were lower P  0.05 in the solid fractionTable 3 Supplemental Table S5 and Supplemental Figure S5 .Firmicutes had the highest relative abundance ac- counting for approximately 57 in the liquid and 46 in the solid fraction on d 10 Tables 2 and 3 Supple- mental Figures S2 and S3 Figure 1.

Relative sequence abundance  of ruminal bacterial populations phyla to genus for each day D within the treatment group T in the liquid fractionControlInoculatedSignificanceDay x1Mean abundance of bacterial taxa across all recipient cows in the liquid fraction.Table 3.

Relative sequence abundance  of ruminal bacterial populations phyla to genus for each day D within the treatment group T in the solid fractionControlInoculatedSignificanceDay x1Mean abundance of bacterial taxa across all recipient cows in the solid fraction.of Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria decreased in both fractions from d 10 to 28 whereas Tenericutes and TM7 increased in both fractions.

At the genus level relative sequence abundance of unclassified Lachnospi-Received December 24 2016.Accepted August 29 2017.1 Corresponding author raceae Butyrivibrio Bulleidia and Coriobacteriaceae were higher on d 10 and were positively correlated with trans-10cis-12 CLA and the trans-10 isomer suggesting their potential role in altered biohydrogena- tion reactions.

2014 the current study investigated the changes inbacterial populations based on their relative sequence abundance at induction and their change as dairy cows recovered from MFD with dietary intervention alone and dietary intervention combined with inoculation from non-MFD cows.MATERIALS AND METHODSThe recovery ruminal samples used for bacterial community analysis in our study were collected and archived from a recently published report Rico et al.

To test for differences in taxa abundance only taxa ap- pearing in at least 75 of the samples were considered.

2014 and relative abundance data of bacterial taxa using the standard R function cor.test.RESULTSSequencing DetailsApproximately 722562 reads were analyzed from 156 bacterial communities.

