The radius of seriously affected benthic communities coincides rather closely with the visually evident spread of drilling waste and is rarely reported to extend beyond 100-200 m. The affected area is furthermore shown to diminish gra- dually over time after termination of the drilling operations  .Only few studies have been published on the microbiological effectsof drilling muds and cuttings deposition and their focus has largely been on the consequences of using oil-based muds.

Cochrane Bjarne Landfalda Norwegian College of Fishery Science Faculty of Biosciences Fisheries and Economics UiT The Arctic University of Norway Breivika N-9037 Tromso Norwayb Akvaplan-niva AS Polar Environmental Center 9296 Tromso NorwayA R T I C L E I N F O Keywords Drill cutting Seafloor Bioindicator Microbiota Barents SeaA B S T R A C T Offshore drilling operations result in the generation of drill cuttings and localized smothering of the benthic habitats.

The potential of these phylogenetic groups as microbial bioindicators of the spatial extent and persistence of drilling waste discharge should be further explored.IntroductionDrilling for oil and gas generates quantities of waste that originate from the release of drilling muds and rock cuttings collectively referred to as drill cuttings and often also excess cement or other materials used.

The amount of waste depends on the drilling depth and the en- vironmental impact of this discharge depends on its quantity and composition local oceanographic conditions and the discharge strategy adopted.

The oil content of released drill cuttings with ac- companying drilling mud residuals should not exceed 1.

The phylogenetic rich- ness is very high both at species and higher taxonomic levels and compares with that of e.g.

The suggested primary cause of this effect is increased oxygen demand by components in the muds but reduced O2 diffusion due to fines that settle onto the seabed as well as reduced bioturbation by burrowing animals may also contribute to oxygen depletion in the affected sediment  .

The ROV was operated from the sub-sea anchor- handling vessel MV Njord Viking Viking Supply Ships Gothenburg.

The sampling was done in the vicinity of an drilling location at close to 1400 m depth at the Bonna location situated on the continental slope of the Barents Sea towards the Norwegian Sea  with Eni Norge as main operator.

The site was drilled during the period 14th of July-8th of November 2013 implying that the drilling of the top hole 567 m which led to discharge of drilling waste on the seafloor took place in the first month of this period .

