thus the hardwiring of preferences for individual glycans by different bacteria seems to facilitate their coexistence in microbial communities.the ability of b. ovatus to outcompete b. thetaiotaomicron on arabinan was partic- ularly intriguing as b. ovatus showed poor growth of this glycan in monoculture.

thus b. thetaiotaomicron appears to facilitate growth of b. ovatus in the coculture on arabinan by cross-feeding glycan breakdown products.the glycans chosen here belong to structurally different polysaccharides amylopec- tin chondroitin sulfate polygalacturonic acid rhamnogalacturonan i pectic galactan and arabinan and the issue arises whether corresponding derivatives with a simpler molecular structure would be prioritized differently in glycan mixtures.

furthermore b. ovatus was able to grow well on arabinose and arabinobiose and also grew on exponential-phase media from b. thetaiotaomicron reaching higher growth rates than b. thetaiotaomicron with media from the late exponential phase.

microbial diversity is likely maintained over time by different species occupying different ecological niches both with regard to which glycans they can utilize and with regard to their response to other environmental factors such as ph or oxygen exposure.

for exam- ple roseburia species within the firmicutes have recently been shown to contain gene arrangements similar to those seen with puls termed gram-positive gp puls however different roseburia species show only limited overlap with respect to the glycans that they can grow on and appear to specialize on different glycans .

the researchers addressed this issue by focusing on alpha-glucan breakdown of b. ovatus as they established that this strain grew much better on malto-oligosaccharides than on a range of different starches.

the degree of branching in different starches may also affect glycan utilization as it was established that the linear amylose fraction was utilized preferentially over branched amylopectin by b. ovatus.the results of the study reported by tuncil et al.

a more global analysis may also facilitate a deeper understanding of why maltohexaose is prioritized only marginally more highly by b. ovatus than the more complex amylopectin despite the fact that it is a much better substrate for this organism as such analyses could reveal insights into other gene products that may be required and into global regulatory processes underlying glycan prioritization.bacteroides species tend to be generalists that can grow on a wide variety of glycans but other bacteria in the gut follow different nutritional strategies.

the researchers combined measurements of glycan depletion in cultures of b. ovatus and b. thetaiotao- micron grown on glycan mixtures with gene expression analysis of the corresponding puls.

in cocultures containing each glycan on its own on the other hand b. ovatus always outcompeted b. thetaiotaomicron and this process for most glycans started much earlier than in the cultures containing all six glycans.

the researchers therefore tested whether b. thetaiotaomicron provides glycan breakdown products to b. ovatus.

cross-feeding of glycan break- down products or other metabolites with the example of arabinan oligosaccharide cross-feeding from b. thetaiotaomicron to b. ovatus as shown by tuncil et al.

commentarydifferent substrate preferences help closely related bacteria to coexist in the gutpetra louisthe rowett institute university of aberdeen aberdeen united kingdomabstract many factors shape the ability of different microbes to coexist in micro- bial communities.

determining depletion of the individual glycans over time in pure cultures and cocul- tures revealed that the bacteria seem to have hardwired differences in their preferences for different glycans which likely contribute to their stable coexistence.

those glycans consist of a diverse range of structurally different polymers and oligomers that differ in their monosaccharide constituents types of glycosidic linkage occurrence and degree of branching chain lengths and presence of other bound constituents such as phenolic residues.

