liver expression of relevant inflammatory mediators such as inducible nitric oxide synthase nuclear factor jb andtumor necrosis factor alpha remained unaltered after both dietary intervention and im transplantation .regarding systemic and portal hemodynamics transplantation with hfgfd microbiota to cd-fed rats cd-tr did not induce hemodynamic changestable 2. biochemical characteristics and hemodynamics of cd and hfgfd rats after fecal transplants and autotransplantsbiochemistryp 0.05 versus cd-atr p 0.05 versus hfgfd-atr.abbreviations alt alanine aminotransferase ast aspartate aminotransferase cd control diet hfgfd high-fat high-glucose fructose diet ihvr intrahepatic vascular resistance map mean arterial pressure pbf portal blood flow smabf superior mesen- teric artery blood flow smar superior mesenteric artery resistance.when compared to their corresponding controls cd- atr suggesting that the im alone is not able to induce ph in a healthy liver.

1 one receiving a heterologous transplantwith the hfgfd fecal pool from stage 1 donors cd-tr n 5 13 and one serving as a control for the transplantation procedure undergoing transplantation with their own fecal pool autologous fecal transplant cd-atr n 5 10. the same procedure was followed for the hfgfd group one hfgfd subgroup received a heterologous transplant with cd microbiota from stage 1 donors hfgfd-tr n 5 14 and the other underwent an autologous fecal transplantation hfgfd-atr n 5 13. after the transplantation pro- cedure animals were maintained on the original diet they were taking before the procedure i.e.

in order to achieve higher homogeneity in the transplantation procedure feces from the three cd donors on the one hand and the hfgfd donors on the other hand were pooled to be used for the heterolo- gous transplantation in stage 2.stage 2 effects of im transplantationtwo additional groups of rats were fed the cd n 5 23 or hfgfd n 5 27 for 8 weeks and then underwent an im transplant according to the proce- dure described in the .

cd-atr and cd-tr rats continued with the cd and hfgfd-atr and hfgfd-tr continued with the hfgfd for 12-14 days until death.the methods followed to perform the hemodynamic measurements analysis of serum parameters as well as for western blot real-time pcr and 16s ribosomal rna gene sequencing are described in detail in the .table 1. biochemical characteristics and hemodynamics of cd and hfgfd rats after 8 weeks of dietary interventionvalues are expressed as mean 6 sem.

administration of hfgfd for 8 weeks led to a 20 increase in body weight in comparison to cd p  0.001 table 1. fasting glucose insulin and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance homa-ir were significantly increased in hfgfd compared to cd animals table 1 and fig.

representative images show liver parenchyma stained with hematoxylin and eosin or liver fibrosis stained with picrosirius red of cd and hfgfd 340. d pp in cd and hfgfd rats.

in hfgfd rats transplantation with feces from cd donors caused a significant reduction of ph to levels comparable to cd without significant changes in nash histology.

finally the 8-week hfgfd intervention induced a marked and etiology- dependent dysbiosis similar to what is observed in nash patients.18 for studies focusing on the role of im this is another critical advantage of diet-induced nash models over genetic models of nash or clas- sic ph models.

3c.im transplant induced im changes in hfgfd ratsonce the differences in im between the cd and hfgfd groups were confirmed three representative rats of each group were selected as im donors based on weight homa-ir and pp .the changes in the im triggered by the im trans- plantations were analyzed by comparing stool samples collected immediately before transplants and 12-14 days after the autologous and heterologous transplants.

the im present in the hfgfd-tr group hfgfd rats transplanted with feces from cd rats was signifi- cantly different from that of the hfgfd-atr grouphfgfd rats receiving an autotransplantation but also from the microbiome of hfgfd samples col- lected before intestinal decontamination fig.

in cd rats the transplant with im from hfgfd cd-tr did not induce significant changes in the microbiome composi- tion in comparison with cd-atr or with the micro- biome present in cd samples collected before intestinal decontamination fig.

5. as seen in healthy animals receiving a cd transplanta- tion with im from hfgfd donors was not able to induce relevant changes in ir nash histology or portal hemodynamics in the 14-day period between the im transplant and final analysis.

however im transplantation from healthy controls to hfgfd rats that already had nash was able to significantly reduce pp compared to their corresponding hfgfd-atr controls to levels similar to cd groups table 2 and fig.

however the effect of transplantation of a eubiotic im from cd donors to animals with nash did induce relevant changes even while maintaining the hfgfd.

in this regard ph and endothelial dysfunction can be present at very early stages of nash even before the activation of profibrotic and proinflammatory processes.37817 this opens the possibility of considering liver endothelial dysfunction and ph in nash not only as therapeutic targets but also as sensitive potential biomarkers to monitor dis- ease progression and response to therapies.however the exact mechanisms regulating liver endothelial dysfunction in nash are incompletely understood.

