in addition the activation of the transcription factor nf-kb ingeneral was suggested to play a dual role by inducing the expression of pro-inflammatory mediators in response to pathogenic bacteria but also contributing to the regulation of immune homeostasis in the gi tract pasparakis 2009 wullaert bonnet  pasparakis 2011. col- lectively these results demonstrate the beneficial role of tlr activa- tion so it is therefore plausible that the tlr2 and tlr26stimulation and the following nf-kb activation by live f. prausnitziimay cause its anti-inflammatory effects in the gi tract.the results of this research show that live f. prausnitzii induced higher nf-kb activation compared to dead bacteria and appear to con- flict with previous research showing inhibitory effects of f. prausnitzii on nf-kb activation quevrain et al.

treatments that do not share the same letters are significantly different p  .05. live f. prausnitzii in apical anaerobic conditions activated tlr2 and tlr26 to a greater extent than dead f. prausnitziibased on the results of the method development described above anaerobic 50 m199  50 bhi was chosen as apical medium when testing the effect of the three f. prausnitzii strains on tlr activation in the apical anaerobic co-culture model.the ability of live and uv-killed f. prausnitzii strains a2-165atcc 27768 and htf-f to activate tlrs tlr2 tlr26 and tlr4 was determined in conventional 5 co2 in air atmosphere and apical anaerobic conditions.

discussion  method developmentwe have successfully demonstrated that it is possible to adapt and perform the tlr activation assay in the apical anaerobic co-culture model while maintaining the viability of the tlr-expressing hek293 cell lines.the main technical obstacle for performing the tlr activation assay in the apical anaerobic co-culture model was the pressure on the hek293-tlr2-luc cell layers when the inserts were transferred into the co-culture chamber.

a schematic of the apical anaerobic co-culture model usedfor the co-culture of hek293-tlr-luc cell lines with f. prausnitziiand photographs of the co-culture chamber are shown in figure 1.most of the parts of the co-culture chamber were autoclaved before each experiment.

further- more the tlr26 activation by live f. prausnitzii in apical anaerobic conditions was 2.2-fold higher than the tlr26 activation by live and uv-killed f. prausnitzii in conventional conditions.

however the activation by live bacteria was only 1.1-fold higher than uv-killed bacteria therefore the difference was less than that seen in apical anaerobic conditions and may notbe biologically relevant.for the activation of tlr26 the interaction between the envi- ronment and livedead status was significant as shown in figure 5b p  .001. in apical anaerobic conditions tlr26 activation by livef.

researc h artic l elive faecalibacterium prausnitzii induces greater tlr2 and tlr26 activation than the dead bacterium in an apical anaerobic co-culture systemeva maier12 rachel c. anderson12 eric altermann23 nicole c. roy1241 food nutrition  health team food  bio- based products group agresearch grasslands palmerston north new zealand2 riddet institute massey university palmerston north new zealand3 rumen microbiology team animal science group agresearch grasslands palmerston north new zealand4 high-value nutrition national science challenge auckland new zealandcorrespondencedr rachel anderson agresearch limited grasslands research centre tennent drive private bag 11008 palmerston north new zealandemail funding informationmarsden fund grantaward number agr1102 new zealand ministry of business innovation and employment grantaward number c10x1003 riddet institute centre of research excellence introduction inappropriate activation of mucosal immune responses can cause chronic inflammation that occurs in various gastrointestinal gi diseases for example inflammatory bowel disease sartor  mazmanian 2012. paradoxical to the role of innate immune receptors in triggering inflam- mation in the defence against pathogens ample evidence is accumulat- ing that the recognition of commensal microorganisms by these same innate immune receptors is required for homeostasis in the gi tract rakoff-nahoum paglino eslami-varzaneh edberg  medzhitov2004 wells loonen  karczewski 2010. toll-like receptors tlrsare one example of innate immune receptors that recognise common surface structures of microorganisms such as lipopolysaccharide lps abreu 2010 and are expressed on immune and intestinal epithelial cells.

adaptations to perform the tlr activation assay in the apical anaerobic co-culture modelin order to perform the tlr activation assay in the apical anaerobic co- culture model several adaptations were required.

2015. through the separation of anaerobic and aerobic compartments it allows the co-culture and study of the directinteractions between live obligate anaerobes and oxygen-requiringhuman cells.in order to test our hypothesis method development was car- ried out to adapt the tlr activation assay to be performed in the apical anaerobic co-culture model.

to perform the tlr activation assay in thisfigure 1 apical anaerobic co-culture model.schematic showing the apical anaerobic co- culture model used for the co-culture of toll- like receptor expressing human embryonic kidney cell lines hek293-tlr-luc with anaerobic faecalibacterium prausnitzii.

positive control stimulated tlr2 activation in apical anaerobic conditions similar to conventional conditionsfigure 3 basal dissolved oxygen do levels when incubating hek293-tlr2-luc cells in the apical anaerobic co-culture model.hek293-tlr2-luc cell layers seeded ontranswell inserts were insertedinto the apical anaerobic co-culture model and the apical medium was replaced with anaerobic 50 m199  50 brain heart infusion.

the different effects on tlr activation between live and dead bacteria highlight the importance of using physiologically relevant co-culture models such asthe apical anaerobic co-culture model to decipher the mechanisms of action of live obligate anaerobes.

the effect of live f. prausnitzii on tlr activation was tested using the apical anaer- obic co-culture model and compared to the results obtained when testing dead bacteria that were killed in the presence of oxygen or through exposure to uv-light.

the tlr activation induced by the three f. prausnitzii strains was normalised against the results obtained using the respective positive controls.two co-culture chambers were used to perform the tlr activationassay in both conventional and apical anaerobic conditions.

apical anaerobic co-culture modelthe apical anaerobic co-culture model utilised a proprietary co-culture chamber that was used inside an anaerobic workstation.

