the spread of a transgene in a population is thought to require its super-mendelian transmission via gene drive b. gene drive is based on germline-specific invasion of the transgene from a chromo- some to its homologous partner making heterozygous mosquitoes able to transmitcell host  microbe 22 november 8 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. 577cell host  microbepreviewsthe transgene to greater than 50 of their progeny often nearing 100  .

in these lines permissiveness to plasmodium infection is artificially decreased by enhancing immune signaling via overexpression of the nf-kb transcrip- tion factor rel2 or of an anti-plasmodium- specific splice form of the receptor down syndrome cell-adhesion molecule dscam a. found that these transgenes were more efficient than expected to colonize a cage-mos- quito population reaching around 90 of the population one and five generations after introducing 25 and 10 of trans- gene-carrying mosquitoes respectively and then stabilizing around 90. interest- ingly transgene spread in the population was favored by mating choice making wt mosquitoes more likely to mate with gm ones.

starting with a population where 10 of males and 10 of females are heterozygous transgene carriers first generation after crossing wt and homozygous transgene carriers 9.75 of the progeny are expected to carry the transgene according to mendelianinheritance.

similar to what the authors previously found with colonization by pantoea agglomerans infection of the mosquitoes by p. falciparum led to a 90 lower parasite load after genetic manipulation of as1 to produce lytic peptides active against p. falciparum andor peptides interfering with parasite invasion of the mosquito gut epithelium a. considering the high parasite burden observed in these laboratory con- ditions this would expectedly translate into a reduction in the proportion of para- site-infected mosquitoes in the field  which is the actual requirement to reduce malaria transmission.

no pheromone has been identi- fied so far and previous cross-population mating experiments suggested that assortative mating choice was mostly the fact of females figure 1. strategies proposed in the highlighted studies to limit malaria transmission using the mosquito microbiotatransmission-blocking strategies involved in the studies of on genetically modified gm mosquitoes and of on gm bacteria from the microbiota.inheritance of a malaria-blocking transgene may be increased by gene drive or microbiota-mediated preference to cross-mating versus assortative mating.

using genetically modified bacteria and mosquitoes two studies uncover new potential of this multipotent prospective tool to reduce disease transmission.mosquitoes become infected with the ma- laria parasite by biting an infected human.

they now characterize a serratia marcescens strain as1 from their laboratory colony of anopheles ste- phensi which combines highly efficient colonization of mosquitoes and upon ge- netic engineering reduction of mosquito infection rate by plasmodium parasites.

the next step will be to ensure that as1 is still an efficient colonizer after genetic engi- neering and that it still impacts parasites over several generations of mosquitoes.

as the microbiota of field and laboratory mosquitoes are very different   a validation of the observed colonization and transmission blockade is now required in field-collected mosqui- toes.

gm mosquitoes harbor a microbiota of altered composition with a lower total bacterial load and it is not yet known whether the changes in load andor composition are responsible for the mating preference.

importantly the authors found that permissiveness to plasmodium is still significantly reduced after ten genera- tions when comparing co-housed prog- eny carrying the transgenes to those that do not.besides its potential interest in fighting malaria this study suggests interesting hy- potheses about mating choice which is still a black box in the biology of anopheles mosquitoes.

resistance toward multiple plasmodium strains will also need assessment.ethical questions raised by the poten- tial use of such malaria-transmission- blocking strategies--whether using gm bacteria or fertile gm mosquitoes--have yet to be resolved and must beaddressed seriously.

meanwhile s. marcescens is widely distributed in nature suggesting that such a strain may not be too disruptive to the environment.in a second study published in the same issue dimopoulos and collaborators   elucidate a new mechanism for propagation of a transmission-blocking transgene in a mosquito population.

gene drive leads to an increase in the chance of transmission resulting in up to 19 of the progeny carrying the transgene.

as these crosses are the most frequent the effect on transgene inheritance is significant.

