fermentation time hfosfbtps0100.0 - 2.6a100.0 - 3.9a663.9 - 4.7b69.8 - 3.0b1265.2 - 4.0b43.5 - 7.0c2464.8 - 3.4b24.1 - 1.3da-d mean value in the same column with different letters was significantly different p  .05 by a tukey test.fos fructooligosaccharide fbtps polysaccharides from fuzhuan brick tea.release its function of modulating the gut microbiota but not suddenly changing the gut microenvironment.effect of fbtps on gut microbiotathe human gut microbiota play a major role in human health  .

in a word all the results suggested that fbtps could pass through the digestive system without being broken down by saliva simulated gastric and small intestinal digestion and reach the large intestine safely thus it was expected that gut bacteria could use it.fermentation of fbtps by gut microbiotait has been reported that indigestible polysaccharides by gastric and small intestinal fluids could be broken down and utilized by gut mi- crobiota .

thus these polysaccharides could serve as main energy and carbon source for gut microbiota and stimulate their growth to yield healthy compounds such as scfas  .basic information of fbtps fermentation in vitro by gut microbiotathe fermentation of fbtps by gut microbiota in vitro was evaluated by possible changes in molecular weight during the fermentation 6 12 and 24 h. as expected it was obvious that the response of fbtps in hplc significantly decreased with the increase of fermentation time .

the content of carbohydrate was significantly decreased by fermentation in vitro of gut mi- crobiota suggesting that fbtps could be broken down and utilized by gut microbiota.

knowledge about the relationships among fbtps gut microbiota and bacterial metabolites can be beneficial for health im- provement and disease prevention through modulating the gut micro- biota.

a principal component analysis of gut microbiota at the out level b multivariate analysis of variance from matrix scores based on bray-curtis method c bacterial taxonomic profiling in the phylum level of gut microbiota.bacteroidetes.

it has been reported that bifidobacterium was undetectable in gut microbiota of pigs fed with pectin or mice fed with ganoderma lucidum poly- saccharides  .effects of fbtps on production of scfasscfas such as acetic lactic propionic n-butyric i-butyric n-va- leric and i-valeric acids are the main fermentation products of poly- saccharides metabolized by gut microbiota.

scfas short-chain fatty acids fos fructooligosaccharide fbtps polysaccharides from fuzhuan brick tea.effect of fbtps on the gut microenvironment and further seek evidence of breakdown of fbtps by gut microbiota.

moreover the present results showed that fbtps could slowly release its function of modulating the gut microbiota but not suddenly changing the gut microenvironment.

fbtps could significantly modulate the composition and abundance of gut microbiota.

therefore fbtps is expected to be a functional food to improve human health and prevent disease through promoting the gut health.introductiona growing body of evidences has demonstrated that plant poly- saccharides can evade the digestive system without digestion by human enzymes in the saliva stomach and small intestine  .

the indigestible polysaccharides can then reach safely the large intestine where they can be broken down and utilized by gut micro- biota .

as results some health-promoting gut microbiota such as bifidobacterium anaerostipes and lactobacillus increased furthermore some beneficial metabolic products such as short-chain fatty acids scfas in the colon lumen are enhanced .

it has been reported that poly- saccharides from squid ink could regulate the intestinal dysbiosis and reduce inflammatory disorders  ganoderma lucidumpolysaccharides could reduce obesity by decreasing the level of en- dotoxin-bearing proteobacteria and the ratio of firmicutesbacter- oidetes in gut microbiota .

the digestion process of fbtps under saliva gastric and small intestinal conditions and fermentation by gut microbiota are unknown.

