samples were stored on ice in coolers until they were processed.microbial analysisgroundwater samples were filtered within 24 h of collection using the membrane filter technique.

exploring the links between groundwater quality and bacterial communities near oil and gas extraction activitiesines c. santos  misty s. martin  michelle l. reyes  doug d. carlton jr  paula stigler-granados melissa a. valerio  kristina w. whitworth  zacariah l. hildenbrand  kevin a. schug a department of chemistry and biochemistry the university of texas at arlington arlington tx usab affiliate of the collaborative laboratories for environmental analysis and remediation the university of texas at arlington arlington tx usac uthealth school of public health in san antonio san antonio tx usad southwest center for occupational and environmental health uthealth school of public health houston tx usae inform environmental llc dallas tx usah i g h l i g h t sstressful environments change bacterial communities.groundwater samples located near agricultural and ud activities were collected.the bacteria present in contaminatedgroundwater were identified using maldi-tof ms.mainly bacteria from the phylumproteobacteria were isolated.the bacterial communities varied significantly with the compositional differences.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 8 august 2017received in revised form 22 october 2017accepted 23 october 2017available online 9 november 2017 editor d. barcelokeywordsmaldi-tof msunconventional drilling groundwater microbiome hydraulic fracturing biogeochemical cycles unconventional oil and gasa b s t r a c t bacterial communities in groundwater are very important as they maintain a balanced biogeochemical environ- ment.

in this work groundwater samples were collected from a rural area in southern texas where agricultural activities and unconventional oil and gas development are the most prevalent anthropogenic activities.

overall the bacterial communities varied significantly with respect to the compositional differences that were observed from the collected groundwater samples.

these data are some of the first to comprehensively characterize micro- bial communities in groundwater overlying oil and gas development in a rural region engaged in various agricultural activities.materials and methodssample collection and analysisgroundwater samples were collected from 19 water wells through- out frio county in southern texas overlying the eagle ford shale.

to assess their de- gree of impairment the chemical composition of groundwater samples was assessed by measuring volatile organic compounds vocs using gas chromatography - mass spectrometry as described previously .

samples for the microbial analyses were collected in dupli- cate in 500 ml hdpe sterile sample bottles thermo scientifictm nalgenetm by filling bottles completely and leaving minimal head- space.

sterile deionized water was used as a transport blank to ensure no contamination either chemical or biological due to transportation of samples.

bacteria quantification in water samples was performed according to standard methods for water and wastewater analysis apha-awwa-wpcf  and results were expressed as colony forming units cfu 100 ml.

samples were analyzed in duplicate.the mass spectra were obtained using the axima-id plus maldi- tof ms platform kratos analytical manchester uk operated in linear mode with a laser power of 60-80 and a detector voltage of 2600 v. ex- periments were performed with 100 profiles per spectra and 5 shots per spot.

polymerase chain reaction pcr amplifi- cation was performed on samples using the primers 27f and 534r  which are specific for the 16s ribosomal rna gene.

shows a summary of groundwater constituents in relation to de- tected bacterial communities.within the collected groundwater samples microbial abundance and diversity did not exhibit any geospatial patterns .

although nitrogen was present in all samples nitrate levels were extremely elevated 148.0 mgl in only one sample fc1.c.

c. amalonaticus also has the ability to accumulate metals from its environment by combining them with phosphates  .interestingly e. coli and c. amalonaticus were found in water samples fc1 and fc2.

1. total colony forming units cfu's of the bacterial classes found in water samples taken from the eagle ford shale region in frio county texas.

