pylori and gastric microbiotathe precise interaction between h. pylori and gastric microbiota is not fully understood however currently data suggest that whereas h. pylori colonization on one hand induces specific changes in gastric microbiota composition an altered gastric microbiota dysbiosis on the other hand appears to influence the pathogenicity and virulence of h. pylori or its capacity to colonize the stomach .

pylori recruits immune cells including neutrophils and monocytes that secrete inflammatory cytokines such as il-1 and tnf-a and il-17 secreting t cells th17 which eventuallybreaks immune homeostasis leading to chronic inflammation which in turn may result in gastric carcinogenesis.decreases in proteobacteria and actinobacteria and increases infirmicutes and bacteroidetes .compelling evidence indicate that infection with h. pylori cor- relates with altered gastric microbiota and that stomach dysbiosis is implicated in the pathogenesis of certain gastric diseases how- ever it is still unclear whether h. pylori infection itself promotes the growing of unwanted microorganisms or inversely an altered microbiota creates favourable conditions for h. pylori colonization.

h. pylori infection is implicated in around 90 of gastric malt-lymphomas and therefore h. pylori eradication constitutes the first-line treat- ment for h. pylori   gastric malt-lymphoma which results in complete remission in nearly 90 of patients .

conversely a probiotic preparation containing l. acidophilusrhamnosus b. bifidum and streptococcus faecium had no bene- ficial effects on the h. pylori eradication rate nor improved the adverse effects of the treatment in patients with peptic ulcer or functional dyspepsia due to h. pylori infection in comparison with the placebo group .during the last ten years 16 meta-analysis testing the efficacy of probiotic as adjuvant therapy to the standard h. pylori antibiotic eradication regimens have been published sup.

in children regardless of the pres- ence or the absence of h. pylori the three most common genus of bacteria found in the stomach were helicobacter pseudomonas and staphylococcus .although the precise mechanisms determining individualgastric microbiota composition are not entirely understood it is suggested that various factors including diet  use of antibi- otics  use of probiotics  the long-term use of proton pump inhibitors ppis or h2-antagonists and h. pylori infection modulate the gastric niche e .

pylori mono-infection resulted in gastritis and gastric neoplasms it caused less-severe gastric lesions and delayed onset of neoplasms compared to h. pylori-infected animals harboring complex gastric microbiota  indicating that certain microbe within gastric microbiota might contribute to carcinogenesis.data from numerous studies in humans suggest that gastric microbiome of patients infected with h. pylori is different from that of uninfected individuals although the specific changes appear to be geographically dependent and largely influenced by the sample collection method utilized.

a recently study that characterized the gastric microbiota in in- dividuals with different histological stages of gastric carcinogen- esis including gastritis gastric intestinal metaplasia gastric cancer and healthy controls showed that h. pylori infection correlated with reduction in gastric microbiota diversity and this could be restored after h. pylori eradication .moreover a recent follow-up study which investigated the stomach microbiota in gastric cancer patients before and after subtotal gastrectomy showed that gastric microbiota was signifi- cantly more diverse after surgery and characterized by specific150j.l.

it is very likely that a two-way interaction exists in which the colonizing h. pylori favors the growing of certain bacteria and vice versa gastric dysbiosis may promote changes in the mucosal or the stomach lumen favourable for the h. pylori colonization.

on support of this assumption may be the emergence of h. pylori negative gastric cancer both carcinoma and malt-lymphoma  and the apparent increase of esophageal cancer in h. pylori negative in- dividuals in recent years .although our understanding of gastric microbiota has expanded significantly most studies on stomach microbiota have so far been limited to small cohorts of individuals consequently designing longitudinal prospective studies including large number of in- dividuals are needed to definitely clarify the role of the gastric microbiota in disease development.

helicobacter pylori h. pylori is a bacterium that frequently colonizes human stomach and is a major pathogenic agent for peptic ulcer diseases gastric cancer and mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue malt lymphoma.

pylori strain virulence host genetic susceptibility the reactivity of the host immune system and various environmental factors including diet determine the susceptibility of a h. pylori-infected individual to develop h. pylori-induced pathologies .due to its acidic ph ph  2 and peristaltic movements the stomach was historically considered a hostile environment for most microorganisms and was thus assumed to be a sterile organ.

here we review recent insights on the complex interactions between gastric commensal bacteria and h. pylori and particularly the effects that such microbe interplay may have on the pathogenesis of h. pylori-induced gastric malignancies including gastric cancer and gastric-malt lym- phoma.

in addition mouse gastric adenocarcinoma can originate from bone marrow- derived cells that home and engraft in sites of chronic gastric inflammation in the context of infection with h. felis .the role of h. pylori in gastric carcinogenesis is unquestionable however several lines of evidence indicate that other microbe in the gastric microbiome may be implicated in the transformation of stomach epithelial cells.

pylori strains derived from gastric cancer and gastric malt- lymphomas identified amino acid polymorphisms in these pro- teins whose allele frequency was significantly different between the two diseases .several bacteria particularly within the genus helicobacter such as h. felis h. helmanii induce malt lymphoma in mice and mice deficient in the ataxia telangiectasia mutated gene which frequently develop spontaneous lymphomas are protected from inflammation and lymphoma development when maintained un- der l. johnsonii enriched conditions .

h. pylori positivity correlated with increased abundance of non-helicobacter proteobacteria spiro- chetes as compared to h. pylori-negative patients .

