as strachan pointed out the term is now an enfant terrible .from hygiene hypothesis to biota alteration theorybiota alteration theory is supported by numerous epide- miologic studies showing that the incidence of hyper-immune related diseases is drastically higher in populations and in individuals with westernization-induced biota alteration compared to those without such alterations .

at the same time as pointed out above the theory is not intended to state that biota alteration is the only cultural factor leading to increased inflammatory disease.biota alteration theory and public health principles of restorationthe fact that culture-induced biota alteration is an un- derlying cause of inflammation is extremely encouraging from the perspective of the public health.

in this review current thinking regarding this connection between culture the biota and disease will be discussed.the human biota as one factor among several in the context of culture and inflammatory diseasealteration of the human biota in modern society has been linked to an array of hyper-immune related diseases involving chronic inflammation e. this phenomenon can be described by a biota alteration theory or alternatively biome depletion theory which states that alteration of human biota constituents in post-industrial societies leaves the im- mune system unstable and overly reactive toward harmless and even self-antigens e. this over-reactivity leads to a wide range of debilitating conditions that include autoimmu- nity allergy digestive disorders cancer heart disease and neuropsychiatric disorders.

thus not only is hygiene only one factor among several that affect biota alteration but the role of hygiene in biota alteration has changed through time.

as such efforts to produce helminth- derived drugs will not help achieve the long-term goals of disease prevention and may indeed provide a distraction from such goals as they divert resources that could be used for biota-based restoration and maintenance.biota alteration theory and public health where do we standthe simplest approach to alleviating inflammatory disease resulting from biota alteration is relatively straight forward in design restore what is lost.

we argue that the goals of health and profit can be diametrically opposed in biomedical research and that this opposition is currently damaging the public health .biota alteration theory research that needs to be conductedat present with clinical application of knowledge lagging sometimes decades behind the clinical application of biota alteration theory the scientific community is in danger of being seen as conducting biomedical research for the sake of science without the public health in mind.

but numerous subsequent ad- vances in thinking have led to a far more detailed and nuanced picture of biota alteration and how that alteration has affected human health.

reviewevolution of the hygiene hypothesis into biota alteration theory what are the paradigms and where are the clinical applicationschantal villeneuve  henry h. kou  henrik eckermann  antara palkar  lauren g. anderson erin a. mckenney  r. randal bollinger  william parker a department of surgery duke university medical center durham nc 27710 usab department of applied ecology north carolina state university raleigh nc 27607 usareceived 7 august 2017 accepted 2 november 2017available online 10 november 2017abstractfor thousands of years changes in human cultures have altered the biota associated with the human body and those alterations have strongly influenced human health.

the hygiene hypothesis has evolved over the past 30 years into a nuanced biota alteration theory but modern medical priorities and regulatory policies have resulted in tragic underutilization of the acquired knowledge.c 2017 institut pasteur.

that is to say biota alteration theory is not meant to be a stand-alone explanation for the inflammatory diseases of western culture.

major cul- tural factors largely independent of biota alteration that affect pandemics of inflammatory disease include indoor workenvironments leading to vitamin d deficiency  changes in social structure and other factors that lead to chronic psy- chological stress  sedentary lifestyles and inflammatory diets.

rather alteration of the biota began approximately 10000 years ago with the development of agriculture resulting in increased population densities and the rise of crowd in- fections .

1. complex relationship between culture biota alteration and disease.

in this model biota alteration along with other culture-associated factors such as vitamin d deficiency and a sedentary lifestyle are considered to be mediators of inflammatory disease along with triggers of disease e.g.

diet however enters the equation in two places both acting independently of the biota and also being a primary mediator of biota alteration.

