black- currants sampled in lithuania were dominated by firmicutes 35.4 proteobacteria 26.9 and actinobacteria 20.0. however on the blackcurrant berries harvested in the czech republic the most abun- dant bacterial phylum was proteobacteria 71.8.the broad diversity and variation of bacterial and fungal micro- organisms among the blackcurrant samples harvested in lithuania and the czech republic were evident at the family and genus level .among the dominant bacterial otus staphylococcaceae 27.1 flavobacteriaceae 7.2 and moraxellaceae 5.7 were the mostabundant families in blackcurrantlt while the blackcurrantcz sample was dominated by enterobacteriaceae 20.4 followed by oxalobacteraceae 8.4 pseudomonadaceae 7.8 sphingomona-daceae 7.4 comamonadaceae 7.0 cytophagaceae 7.0 acetobacteraceae 6.1 and sphingobacteriaceae 5.4 a. the analysis of distribution of fungal microorganisms on blackcurrants harvested in lithuania revealed that the most dominant genera were cladosporium 45.4 and cryptococcus 15.2 while the berries collected from the czech republic were dominated by hanseniaspora 48.5 followed by cladosporium 5.2 and rhodotorula 1.5 b see supplementary table s2 in the online version at doi .discussionthe distribution of microorganisms depends on plant species and may be affected by growing ripening and storage conditions  .

3. eukaryotic i and prokaryotic ii microbial community distribution at the phylum a and class b level.applt - apples sampled in lithuania appcz - apples collected in the czech republic b. currlt - blackcurrant berries sampled in lithuania b. currcz - blackcurrant berries collected in the czech republic.and were analyzed immediately after sampling thus minimizing ex- ternal impact on the composition of microbiota.we found that the bacterial communities from the apple surface were dominated by gammaproteobacteria mostly represented by the family enterobacteriaceae.

bacterial microbiota of apples was clustered into a similar plot  a while fungal microbiota of regionally distinct apples was slightly separated b. the communities of prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms on blackcurrants sampled in lithuania and the czech republic were clearly separated in pcoa plots from each other and from apples .composition of apple bacterial and fungal microbiotathe populations of fungal and bacterial microbiota at the phylum level were similar on both apples applelt and applecz collected from the geographically distinct regions of lithuania and the czech republic.

7 cladosporium 4.2 and hanseniaspora 3.3 dominated in lithuania while on apples sampled in the czech republic hanseniaspora represented the most abundant fraction 17.6. some genera were detected only in one location for example on apples grown in lithuania we observed stachybotrys while in the applecz sample - wickerhamomyces b. same cultivable yeast species such as issatchenkia terricola pichia fermentans torulaspora delbrueckii saccharomyces cerevisiae were weakly distinguished by ngs analysis see supplementary table s2 in the online version at doi table 1total sequences obtained for eukaryotic its2 and prokaryotic v3-v4 microbial community for apple and blackcurrant samples.fig.

but were detected after isolation from both apple samples by applying enrichment and cultivation techniques see supplementary table s3 in the online version at doi .composition of blackcurrant bacterial and fungal microbiotathe distribution of fungal microorganisms at the phylum level was similar on blackcurrant berries located in both lithuania and the czech republic.

in this study we report next generation sequencing-based metagenomic analysis of microbial communities associated with apple and blackcurrant fruits harvested from lithuania and the czech republic.

among fungal and bacterial microorganisms we identified both potentially beneficial cryptococcus hanseniaspora massilia rhodotorula sphingomonas and phytopathogenic microorganisms cladosporium pantoea phoma pseudomonas septoria taphrina indicating their important roles in ecological and evolutionary processes.introductionplants host many microorganisms that colonize the surface of fruits leaves flowers and stems as well as within their tissues  .

the current study evaluated the distribution of bac- terial and fungal microorganisms found on apple fruits and black-currant berries grown in distinct regions in lithuania and the czech republic.

the microorganisms on black- currants located in lithuania differed at the lower taxonomic level family genus or species from berries harvested in the czech republic.

the obtained sequences were compared with those found in the fasta network service of the embl-ebi database  .resultsdiversity and richness of microbial communitiesin this study we assessed and compared the microbial communities of apples and blackcurrants sampled from lithuania and the czech republic by dna massive parallel sequencing of 16s rdna for bacteria and its2 for fungal analysis.

distribution of apple and blackcurrant microbiota in lithuania and the czech republicigle vepstaite-monstavice juliana luksa ramune staneviciene zivile strazdaite-zielienevyacheslav yurchenko saulius serva elena servienea laboratory of genetics institute of botany nature research centre akademijos str.

2 vilnius lt-08412 lithuaniab life science research centre and institute of environmental technologies faculty of science university of ostrava chittussiho 10 70200 ostrava czech republicc biology centre institute of parasitology czech academy of sciences branisovska 116031 370 05 ceske budejovice budweis czech republicd department of biochemistry and molecular biology institute of biosciences vilnius university sauletekio al.

we would like to thank tereza sevcikova for help with apple and blackcurrant collection in the ostrava region and antanas zilakauskis daniel naumov dovile ezerskyte and vytautas balnionis for help with sample collection in lithuania and the laboratory analysis.

its2 sequences from the analysis of the population of eukaryotic microorganisms and v3-v4 region sequences from the analysis of the community of prokaryotic microorganisms.fig.

rarefaction curve showed that the numbers of otus were saturated in all samples making them suitable for further community analysis .principal coordinate analysis pcoa performed with the re- presentative otus showed a clear separation of apple and blackcurrant indicating a difference in the composition of the bacterial and fungal microbiota .

