a single intravenous dose of lanicemine showed rapid but short-lived antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant depressed patients n 22. a subsequent phase iib study reported that lanicemine 100 or 150 mg three intra- venous infusions per week for 3 weeks as an adjunct to one antidepressant was associated with a significant improvement of depressive symptoms in treatment-resistant depressed patients n  152. however a recent phase iib study using a larger sample size reported that lanicemine 50 or 100 mg three intravenous infusions per week for 12 weeks as an adjunct to one ongoing antidepressant did not improve depressive symptoms in treatment-resistant depressed patients n  302. these data suggest no evidence to support the efficacy of lanicemine augmentation over placebo in treating treatment-resistant depressive symptoms.

the present study was therefore conducted to examine whether the gut microbiota plays a role in the mechanisms underlying the antidepressant actions of r-ketamine and lanicemine in a chronic social defeat stress csds model.resultsr-ketamine but not lanicemine shows rapid and sustained antidepressant effects in sus- ceptible mice after csds.

ketamine an n-methyl-d-aspartate receptor nmdar antagonist showed rapid and sustained antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant depressed patients.in contrast another nmdar antagonist lanicemine did not exhibit antidepressant effects insuch patients.

in behavioral tests r-ketamine showed antidepressant effects in the susceptible mice whereas lanicemine did not.

the antidepressant effects of r-ketamine 10 mgkg and lanicemine 10 mgkg in susceptible mice after csds were examined fig.

furthermore both r-ketamine and lanicemine significantly attenuated the reduced levels of mogibacteriaceae in the susceptible mice although the effects of lanicemine were less potent than r-ketamine.

these findings suggest that altered composition of gut microbiota in the csds susceptible mice might play a role in the depression-like phenotype and that the improvement of the altered composition of gut microbiota in the susceptible mice by r-ketamine might play in part a role in its rapid antidepressant effect.figure 2. the pcoa of the gut bacterium data.

nonetheless further studies on the role of the order clostridiales including the genus clostridium in depression and antidepressant actions of r-ketamine are needed.the present data do not provide direct evidence of the effect of gut microbiota on the antidepressant actions of r-ketamine because behavioral experiments using germ-free mice were not performed.

pp.69-81 2017.newport d. j. schatzberg a. f.  nemeroff c. b. whither ketamine as an antidepressant panacea or toxin depress anxiety 33 685-688 2016.yang c.  hashimoto k. rapid antidepressant effects and abuse liability of ketamine.

antidepressants antimicrobials or both gut microbiota dysbiosis in depression and possible implications of the antimicrobial effects of antidepressant drugs for antidepressant effectiveness.

here we compared the effects of r-ketamine and lanicemine on depression-like phenotype and the composition of the gut microbiota in susceptible mice after chronic social defeat stress csds.

.figure 1. effects of r-ketamine and lanicemine in the depression-like phenotype susceptible mice after csds.a the schedule of csds model treatment behavioral tests and feces collection.

finally r-ketamine significantly attenuated the increased levels of clostridium the genus of bacteria in the susceptible mice although the effects of lanicemine were less potent than r-ketamine.

in contrast lanicemine did not show antidepressant effects in the csds model consistent with the recent clinical results.the principal coordinate analysis pcoa of the gut bacterium data.

in contrast lanicemine did not show antidepressant effects in the same model.

