benefits from diversified crop rotations extend beyond yield and include increased soil nutrients and organic matter content improved soil structure enhanced soil microbial biomass increase in micro- bial diversity and activity and disruption of pests weeds and disease cycles-.

furthermore the four-year rotations including sunflower helianthus annus l. resulted in greater soil carbon accumulation and soil aggregate stability over the 16 year period osborne et al.

a soil dilution approach was selected in order to test multiple replicates per soil provenance and biotic stressor combinations.

pots were setup in the greenhouse in a randomized design with 8 pots per rotation field soil soil provenance and infestation treatment combination.

each 2 l pot was filled halfway with 12 field soil - potting mixture described above followed by 20 g of f. graminearum infested cornmeal or non-infested cornmeal for controls and filled to the top with the field soil - potting mix.

soil infestation with wcr resulted in major root damage regardless of soil provenance table .

further analyses of soil origin and infestation effects on fungal com- munities associated with maize seedlings in this experiment were performed after removal of the f. graminearum otu.the relative effects of soil provenance and infestation on maize rhizosphere-associated bacterial and fun- gal communities as evaluated by 16s and its2 sequences were assessed through correspondence analysis and ordination figs and .

predicted bacterial functional diversity as a whole did not respond to soil provenance with no observable clustering of samples on the ordination space based on soil origin supplementary figure 7. the community of predicted functional genes in samples originating from wcr infested samples appear to differentiate from non-infested counterparts when maize plants were grown in soils preceded by either sunflower or maize variation in axis 2. however no consistent significant effects on abundance of predicted gene content or orthologous groups in response to infestation were observed across experiments.the predominant trophic mode of fungi recovered in this data set was saprotroph ranging from 30 to 54 of normalized reads of non-infested samples followed by symbiotroph range 5-35 in particular arbuscu- lar mycorrhizal fungi and pathotroph range 4-6 fig.

109 541-548 2017.dias t. dukes a.  antunes p. m. accounting for soil biotic effects on soil health and crop productivity in the design of crop rotations.

97 7-10 2005.garbeva p. van veen j. a.  van elsas j. d. microbial diversity in soil selection of microbial populations by plant and soil type and implications for disease suppressiveness.

understanding and enhancing soil biological health the solution for reversing soil degradation.

impact of cropping systems soil inoculum and plant species identity on soil bacterial community structure.

soils originated from a replicated field experiment evaluating different four-year rotation combinations.in the greenhouse a stressor was introduced by soil infestation with western corn rootworm wcr or fusarium graminearum.

wcr root damage was equivalent for seedlings regardless of soil provenance whereas f. graminearum root damage was significantly lower in maize grown in soils preceded by sunflower.infestation with wcr affected specific microbial taxa acinetobacter smaragdicoccus aeromicrobium actinomucor.

in rotational systems both the length of the rotation and the plant species included in the rotation contribute to differences in rotational effects on soil characteristics and cash crop benefits.

