in this study high-throughput sequencing-based compositional analysis of the cecal and colonic microbiota showed appar- ent differences in relative abundance of bacterial phyla and genus between the control and fresh fsm fed piglets indi- cating that fresh fsm had an effect on the gut microbiota.the 16s rrna gene-sequencing approach detected seven different bacterial phyla in the cecum and colon in 42-day- old piglets with firmicutes dominating followed by bac- teroidetes and proteobacteria or actinobacteria in colon of treatment piglets.

however it is not suitable to be fed as the sole protein source in piglets post weaning due to anti-nutritional factors friesen et al.

intestinal villus atrophy crypt proliferation would happen to weaned piglets montagne et al.

a similar result was also found in the weaned piglets fed dried fsm feng et al.

the relative distribution is similar to that previously observed in the feces of post-weaning piglets 40-day-old using 16srrna genes sequencing pajarillo et al.

detected 11 phyla in the cecum of 21-day-old piglets and found that bacteroi- detes dominated followed by firmicutes and proteobacteria poroyko et al.

world journal of microbiology and biotechnology 2017 33213 httpsdoi.org10.1007s11274-017-2374-7changes of gut microbiota structure and morphology in weaned piglets treated with fresh fermented soybean mealzhengjun xie12  luansha hu1  yuan li1  shijie geng1  saisai cheng1  xiongfeng fu1  shoumei zhao1  xinyan han1received 12 june 2017  accepted 25 october 2017  published online 16 november 2017c springer sciencebusiness media b.v. 2017abstractthis study investigated the effects of dietary fresh fermented soybean meal fsm on the intestinal microbiota and metabo- lites bacterial enzyme activity and intestinal morphology of weaning piglets.

the results indicated that fresh fsm might change intestinal function by influencing intestinal microenvironment.keywords piglets  intestinal microbiota  pyrosequencing  fresh fermented soybean meal  bacterial enzyme activityintroductionweaning is known to be a critical period in pig production due to the transition from liquid sows milk to solid feed environmental and social stress on piglets.

the incidence of diarrhea  was calculated as the total number of diarrheal piglets during the period divided by the total number of piglets multiplies duration of feeding trial.sample collectionsat the end of the feeding trial eight pigs from each dietary treatment were randomly selected based on the similar body weight and humanely euthanized.

jejunal microvilli of the piglets that fed with fresh fsm were long dense and uniform whereas jejunal microvilli of control piglets were short sparse irregular and patchy.bacterial enzymes and organic acids in the gutthe activities of bacterial enzymes in caecal and colonic digesta were influenced by fresh fsm table .

the impor- tance of these genera for piglets gut health after receiving fresh fsm contained diets should be investigated further.in the current study escherichia streptococcus andstenotrophomonas were in lower abundance in fresh fsm fed piglets.

weaning causes the changes of morphological histological and microbial condi- tion in the gastrointestinal tract of young animals pluske et al.

gastrointestinal tract health is known to be largely affected by the composition of the microbiota and diverse end-products from bacterial metabolism klose et al.

gut microbiota plays a key role in the biological transformation processes of organic matter and its manipulation by probiotic consump- tion is known to be an interesting approach to maintain and restore health drury et al.

almada et al.

