the widespread application of such approaches has revealed that the small group of cf airway-associated microbes is in fact part of a larger and more complex cf lung microbiota - in particular microbes that are able to exploit lower oxygen tensions including members of the prevotella veillonella streptococcus and gemella genera have been reported consistently in cf lower airway samples -while analysis of diseased lung tissue obtained directly through surgery and the comparative analysis of upper and lower airway samples suggest lung colonisation by these taxa there is an ongoing debate around their clinical significance.

little evidence yet exists that this wider lung microbiota contributes directly to inflammation although intriguingly studies in animal models have demonstrated that some oropharyngeal anaerobes can significantly increase the expression of pseudomonas aeruginosa pathogenicity traits when present as co-infections to date efforts to understand the relationships between the composition of the cf lung microbiota and clinical and immunological measures have mostly taken the form of single-centre cross-sectional studies.

e-mail since the first reports of bacterial lung infections in patients with cystic fibrosis cf almost 80 years ago concerted efforts have been made to identify the microbes responsible and to determine their contribution to lung disease.

it is certainly possible that the lung microbiota contributes to the creation of an airway environment that is more or less conducive to pseudomonal growth as has been demonstrated in animal models for other airway pathogens potentially such an interaction might contribute to the failure of a subset of cf patients to ever acquire chronic p. aeruginosa infections despite the environmental prevalence of this pathogen.

the lower airway microbiota in early cystic fibrosis lung disease a longitudinal analysis.

however while cf respiratory microbiology has helped to shape clinical practice our understanding of the relationships between microbial colonisation of the lung inflammation and disease remains relatively poor.the development of culture-independent analytical techniques such as 16s ribosomal rna rrna gene amplicon sequencing has provided a means to characterise cf airway microbiology more comprehensively.

the authors reported inconsistent intraindividual concordance between microbiota of the upper and lower respiratory niches suggesting that the lungs of infants with cf may have their own microbiome seeded by but not identical to the upper respiratory tract microbiome.if nontraditional taxa do colonise the cf lower airways whether they contribute directly to airway inflammation is uncertain.

such strategies would not only clarify the overlap between upper respiratory microbiota and the composition of lower airway samples but would potentially inform our understanding of mechanisms by which these taxa might influence cf lung disease.referencesrogers gb carroll mp serisier dj et al.

point out that patients whose airway microbiota was characterised by a high relative abundance of these taxa had higher levels of airway inflammation than disease controls although whether this stems from the presence of microbes or from the direct effects of underlying pathophysiology was not investigated.whether nontraditional taxa might influence the risk of infection by recognised cf pathogens such asp.

lung microbiota across age and disease stage in cystic fibrosis.

directly sampling the lung of a young child with cystic fibrosis reveals diverse microbiota.

direct sampling of cystic fibrosis lungs indicates that dna-based analyses of upper-airway specimens can misrepresent lung microbiota.

airway microbiota in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from clinically well infants with cystic fibrosis.

changes in cystic fibrosis airway microbiota at pulmonary exacerbation.ann am thorac soc 2013 10 179-187.coburn b wang pw diaz caballero j et al.

the adult cystic fibrosis airway microbiota is stable over time and infection type and highly resilient to antibiotic treatment of exacerbations.

