as shown in figure 2 the proinflammatory cytokine levels of il-1a figure2a il-8 figure 2c il-12 figure 2f tnf-a figure 2g vgef figure 2i and mip-a figure 2k increased p  0.05 after the rats were injected with 150 mgkg of tnbs enema while the anti-inflammatory cytokines levels of il-2 figure 2b il-10 figure 2d il-11 figure 2e tnf-g figure 2h and m-csf figure 2j decreased compared with the normal group p  0.05.figure 2 effects of h. erinaceus extracts on tnbs-induced rats.

increasing evidence indicated that altered intestinal microbial composition and function resulted in an increased risk of ibd 52. previous studies showed that diet resulted in significant changes in the composition of the cecal and fecal microbiota and found diet-dependent shifts among the dominant bacterial phyla in the intestine of mice 1853-55. in humans diet also modulated the intestinal microbiota 56-59. findings from many laboratories have shown that the composition and products of the gut microbiota have unexpected effects on immune and inflammatory responses 17 60 61 and the genes that are also believed to be involved in ibd are usually involved in immune responses transport or bacterial recognition 62. by changing gut microbiota cancer incidence can be also change ibd is the important induced factor for malignant gastrointestinal tumor 63 64. in this study the tnbs could significantly reduce the otus of the gut microbiota in rats p  0.05 vs the normal group as shown in figure 5 while treatment with h. erinaceus extracts recovered the number of otus to near normal especially in the ae- treated groups p  0.05 vs the tnbs-induced group p 0.05 vs the normal group and ameliorated the clinical parameters of the ibd rats.

the gc-ms analysis in this study revealed that the monosaccharide composition was mannose 55.70 arabinose 0.7 rhamnose 3.75 xylose 1.60 galactose 5.12 and glucose 33.10. the polysaccharides were demonstrated to have a good prebiotic effect in this study synergistically relieving inflammation and enhancing immunity figure 10. the expression levels of tnf-a figure 8a nf-kb figure 8b and il-17 figure 8c in polysaccharides plus bifidobacterium-treated group were lower while the levels of foxp3 figure 8d significantly increased p  0.05 compared with the other treated groups even more perfect than the normal indicating that polysaccharides could activate the immune system and inhibit the reaction of inflammation the mechanism was related to the foxp3 t cells.the physical health depends much on the intestinal health.

nevertheless the proportion of tnf-a- and nf-kb p65- positive cells was significantly reduced compared with the model group p  0.05. cumulatively these results suggested that h. erinaceus extracts had effective anti-inflammatory effects in ibd.the gut microbiota structure significantly changed by h. erinaceus extracts administrationoperational taxonomic unit otu abundance and taxonomic profiles were analyzed as shown in figure 4. we also constructed and visualized a taxonomic tree of the predominant taxa figure 6. all the treated groups can be clustered well using bray-curtis distance.

control is the normal without any treatments model mice were induced by tnb model and high-dose antibiotics polysaccharides 100 mgkgd bifidobacterium polysaccharides plus high-dose antibiotics polysaccharides plus bifidobacterium bifidobacterium plus high-dose antibiotics and polysaccharides plus bifidobacterium plus high-dose antibiotics.figure 8 immunohistochemistry staining of a tnf-a b nf-kb p65 c il-17 d foxp3 and the mean optical density values were used for analyzing the results of immunohistochemistry e in the colons of different experimental groups in ibd mice induced by tnbs enema after treatment with polysaccharides extracted from h. erinaceus.greatly increasing the incidence of autoimmune diseases 37. the homologous foxp3 mutations were proved to cause genetic disorders in humans such as immune disorders bowel diseases and endocrine diseases 38. the expression of foxp3 was markedly inhibited in the tnbs-treated rats in the present study figure 3. the number of cd4cd25treg cells increased in the peripheral blood of rats after treatment with the h. erinaceus extracts compared with the tnbs-treated group figure 10b p 0.05 indicating that the h. erinaceus extracts could activate the immune system of ibd.a new study reported that bacteroides friagilis delivered immunomodulatory molecules to immune cells via secretion of outer membrane vesicles to treg to suppress the mucosal inflammation in ibd 39 as shown in figure 10c.

as shown in figure 7 the colonic tissues were seriously damaged in the tnbs-combined antibiotics- treated groups and some cytokines such as gm-csf tnf-g il-10 il-12 il-17a il-4 tnf-a vgef-aand lps were far from the control indicating that without the microbiota the intestinal mucosa figure 7d could be easily destroyed figure 7c.

the gut microbiota structure of the ae-treated group was close to the normal rats while the pe-treated group were close to the model rats and the we-treated group was neither different from the normal nor the tnbs-induced groupfigure 4 which indicated that the alcoholic extracts ae of h. erinaceus may regulate the gut microbiota to the normal-like structure in the tnbs-induced ibd rats as the main active ingredients of h. erinaceus.analysis of mechanical contribution to bacterial dynamic balancemetastats analysis revealed the difference of taxonomic abundance between different groups together with fdr correction as revealed in figure 5. some bacteria in the fecal samples sharply changed from the family classification level.

the findings of the present study showed that the h. erinaceus extracts polysaccharide alcoholic extracts and whole extracts significantly improved the structure of gut microbiota.

in this study a rat and mice colitis model was induced with a tnbs enema and h. erinaceus extracts polysaccharide alcoholic extracts and whole extracts were administered intragastrically for 2 weeks to evaluate the treatment effect with the aim to seek novel and effective drugs or foods from natural resources to relieve the symptoms.resultsclinical improvements by h. erinaceus extracts administrationafter treatment with tnbs enema the rats in all the groups except for the control were anepithymia with reduced activity lethargy weight loss and ruffled fur along with bloody stools or occult blood.

it might be related to invasion of some pathogens and reduction in some protective bacteria resulting in the activation of some abnormal immune cells destruction of th1- and th17-mediated immune responses increase in the mucous membrane permeability loss of immune tolerance function and so on 8 14. previous studies showed that probiotic bacteria might be useful in preventing and treating acute and chronic conditions including antibiotic- associated diarrhea and ibds 15. variation in host physiology caused by different diet age lifestyle genetics and other factors might have a significant impact on microbiota 16-19. at present the outcomes of clinical and animal studies on gut microbiota lack consistency and to understand the impacted gut microbiota function factors need an improved study design and better control over microbiota-mediated effects.the edible and medicinal fungi are well known and widely used as part of traditional diet and herbs in asia.

probiotics play many important roles in maintaining the intestinal health such as makingfigure 9 polysaccharides extracted from h. erinaceus showed a good prebiotic effect on tnbs-induced mice.figure 10 effect of ae on the tnf-a- and lps-induced caco-2 cells a cd4cd25treg cells in tnbs-induced ibd rats induced by tnbs enema b relative abundance of b. friagilis differently treated ibd rats c and the relative content of fatty acids in ae from h. erinaceus analysis by gc-ms d.figure 11 active ingredients and mode of action of h. erinaceus for ibd prevention and treatment.table 1 experimental design of extracts effects in tnbs-induced ibd ratstable 2 experimental design of prebiotic effect of polysaccharides from h. erinaceus extracts in tnbs-induced micenotes antibiotics ampicillin 2 gl vancomycin 1.0 gl neomycin 2 gl and metronidazole 2 gl bifidobacterium.was 109 cfu.intestinal mucous membrane surface forming biological barrier constituting intestinal engraftment resistance to prevent bacterial pathogens invading conditionally pathogenic bacteria avoiding the occurrence of diseases and safeguarding the intestinal normal metabolism 43- 47. bifidobacteria a commensal microorganism found in the gastrointestinal tract has been proved as the core of the intestinal flora contributing a lot to human health 48 49. long-term studies have shown that the abundance of bifidobacteria is higher in individuals who are healthy and have greater longevity than the ordinary and they exist throughout the lifetime 50. several strains have been attributed beneficial traits at local and systemic levels through pathogen exclusion or immune modulationamong other benefits 51. this study found that the polysaccharides could significantly increase the abundance of bifidobacterium figure 9 in the cecum contents and reduce the levels of lps which were mainly secreted by bacteroides spp.

to investigate whether he is clinically effective in alleviating inflammatory bowel disease ibd he extracts polysaccharide alcoholic extracts and whole extracts were prepared using solvent extraction methods were administrated for 2 weeks in rats with ibd induced by trinitro-benzene-sulfonic acid tnbs enema 150 mgkg.

hematoxylin and eosin he-stained sections showed mucosal erosions and ulceration in the tnbs-induced group figure 1 model group compared with the normal group figure 1 normal group.

when treated with h. erinaceus polysaccharides especially the combined bifidobacterium-treated groups all the cytokine levels were restored to near normal and even some clinical parameters were significantly better than those in the control group p  0.05. moreover the immunohistochemical staining showed that the expression of nf-kb tnf-a and il-17 in the polysaccharide- and bifidobacterium-treated groups decreased compared with the model p  0.05 and tnbs-combined antibiotics- treated groups p0.01 however the expression of foxp3 increased p  0.01 as shown in figure 8.further statistical analysis revealed that the polysaccharides could significantly enhance the settling down of bifidobacterium p  0.05 figure 9. moreover the other prebiotics increased.

the polysaccharides maninly influence the structure of the gut microbiota as polysaccharides for essential nutrients and the small molecular organic acids produced from gut microbiota have many biological activities 65 but still need much more studies.materials and methodspreparation of the h. erinaceus extractsthe whole fruiting bodies of h. erinaceus commoditized strain were collected from the research laboratory of edible mushrooms of guangdong institute of microbiology china in may 2015 and identified by prof. xie yizhen of guangdong institute of microbiology using shape features and its sequences.

