patients with gi disorders have higher rates of anxiety and depression than the general population and patients with anxiety and depression experience more gi symptoms than healthy people.learning from microbe-free micemajor scientific interest in the microbiome-gut-brain axis was sparked by a 2004 study of germ-free gf mice.

image courtesy of kiran sandhu.16 ieee pulse v novemberdecember 2017profile associated with stress can lead to depression later in life.early life stress is a predisposing factor for both depression and some functional gi disorders such as irritable bowel syn- drome.

fecal microbiota transplantation is being tested as a method to manipulate or modulate the gut microbiome in a way that may relieve diseases like depression associated with abnormalities in the microbial community of the gut.in a study by cryan and colleagues a fecal microbiota trans- plantation from depressed human patients to gf rats resulted in behavioral and physiological symptoms of depression in thenovemberdecember 2017 v ieee pulse 17animals.

researchers are finding that microbes seem to play a role not only in intestinal health but also in psychiatric health including an individual's proclivity to depression.

elevated blood levels of inflammatory cytokines have been associated with depression and their levels are par- tially regulated by gut microbiota.the bidirectional nature of gut-brain communication is illus- trated by the high degree of overlap between gi and psychiatric disorders.

we conducted those studies in 2005 but the paper wasn't published until 2011. we submitted it a million times.stress bacteria and depressiondespite initial skepticism research has continued to demon- strate a link between gut bacteria the brain and depression.

the baby mice with normal gut microbes that ex- perienced early life stress exhibited signs of depression and anxiety and they pro- duced more of the stress hormone cor- ticosterone.

within several weeks the mice started showing signs of anxiety and depression.

mayer thinks that the bacteria in the yogurtis not only gut bacteria but also changes in the microbiome-gut- brain axis that lead to depression in animals subjected to early life stress.

cryan and his colleagues found that the administration of either of these two bacteria was as effective as the antidepressant lexapro in treating depression symp- toms in mice.yet despite compelling animal evidence there is little re- search on the microbiome-gut-brain axis in humans.

of the limited work in humans that has been published there is some support for the potential use of probiotics to treat depression.

for example bercik and his colleagues treated patients exhibit- ing concomitant irritable bowel syndrome and depression with a specific probiotic that improves depressive behavior in mice.

after six weeks of treatment patients who received the pro- biotic scored lower on tests of depression.

what's more their brain activity patterns measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging fmri had changed as well see also the article imaging depression on page 19 of this issue.

but can mood disorders really be prevented or treated with dietary changesit is known that poor diets such as those that consist primari- ly of high-fat sugary foods pose a risk factor for depression.

