three types of fungi are the predominant decomposers in the environment white rot brown rot and soft rot fungi 2. these degrade wood according to their enzymatic arsenal breaking down cell wall polymers penetrating the cell wall and altering its chemistry with the resulting constituents being taken up by the hyphae for energy and anabolism 34.fungi and bacteria inhabit and compete for resources in ecological niches these interactions can be powerful mutual drivers with positive and negative feedbacks 56. these bacterial- fungal interactions can be highly specific with symbiotic associations developing between bacterial cells and fungal hyphae 7.the interactions between fungal and bacterial populations can play a critical role in the breakdown of lignocellulose in the environment 8910. these synergistic interactions can alter microbial community structure development and composition 711. wood degradation by fungi can be inhibited or promoted by bacteria depending on the species present and the growth stage at which the association is initiated 12. bacteria can alter the structural integrity of wood providing more favourable attack sites for fungi and increasing overall decomposition rates 13. furthermore bacteria can also provide nutritional benefits to wood degrading fungi by supplying biologically fixed nitrogen that fungal hyphae transport to the wood degradation site 131415.woody plant material is a challenging dietary resource for animals as plants contain recalcitrant polymers including cellulose hemicelluloses and lignins 16. employing a wood-based dietary strategy with its low nutritional quality and lack of nitrogenous compounds xylivores must either rely on the activities of endosymbiotic microbes or produce the essential cellulose and lignin degrading enzymes.

2017  34 749-761. doi10.3934microbiol.2017.4.749.investigation into the fungal diversity within different regions of the gastrointestinal tract of panaque nigrolineatus a wood- eating fishcaroline l. marden1 ryan mcdonald2 harold j. schreier23 and joy e.m. watts11school of biological sciences university of portsmouth portsmouth hampshire uk2department of biological sciences university of maryland baltimore county baltimore md usa3department of marine biotechnology university of maryland baltimore county baltimore md usaabstractthe amazonian catfish panaque nigrolineatus have several physiological adaptions enabling the scraping and consumption of wood xylivory facilitating a detritivorous dietary strategy.composed of lignocellulose wood is a difficult substrate to degrade and as yet it is unclear whether the fish obtains any direct nutritional benefits from wood ingestion and degradation.

bacteria facilitate fungal decomposition of lignin 57 by altering wood chemistry structure and permeability 13. they may also provide nutritional benefits to wood degrading fungi via nitrogen fixation allowing fungi to decompose nitrogen-sparse wood 15. an active nitrogen-fixing community has been identified in the gi tract of p. nigrolioneatus 32 suggesting that a mutualistic symbiosis between fungi and bacteria is possible within the fish gi tract.confirmation of such a relationship will require further studies.fungi are commercially important and play a critical role in global environmental health.

this study is the first to examine the fungal community in a xylivorous fish and results support the hypothesis that diet influences fungal distribution and diversity within the gastrointestinal tract of p. nigrolineatus.keywordsfungi microbiome symbiosis fish panaque nigrolineatus gastrointestinal tract wood lignocelluloselicensee aims press.

loricariidae is a speciose family of fish distributed in freshwater ecosystems of the neotropics 2223. one member of the loricariidae panaque nigrolineatus has been the focus of study by several groups due to its ability to imbibe large amounts of wood up to 70 of the gi contents 24. this fish uses spoon-shaped teeth and a suckermouth to allow for ingestion of woody material by rasping 24. stable isotope studies provide support for the consumption of largemarden et al.page 3amounts of cellulose as part of their diet 242526 which may offer selective advantage when river nutrients are limited during the dry season 27. the p. nigrolineatus gastrointestinal gi tract is approximately 10x its body length providing a large surface area with many different microenvironments 24.previous studies have described the isolation of cellulolytic bacteria from the gi tracts and faeces of panaque demonstrating the presence of a consortium of microorganisms performing cellulose breakdown 2829. using 16s rrna and culture-based analyses the enteric bacterial community of p. nigrolineatus appears distinct and specialised in each region of the gi tract.

of particular interest is the hindgut which contains cellulolytic bacteria 293031 as well as sequences similar to c. macrocephala which has been associated with waterlogged wood 6364 any relationship between these bacteria and fungi and their role in the fish gi tract remains to be determined.combined with previous studies 29-32 our results indicate that bacteria and fungi co- inhabit the gi tract of p. nigrolineatus with the potential of degrading dietary wood.ongoing studies 30 mcdonald watts and schreier manuscript in preparation suggest that the enteric bacterial community may lack selected enzymatic activities essential for lignocellulolytic digestion which may be provided by the fungal community andor host.its1its2 sequences for several cellulase-producing fungi have been found in the present study including those having similarity with f. oxysporum a. pullulans botrytis caroliniana metschnikowia alternaria and debaryomyces.

wood decomposition is dynamic and the rate of decomposition depends on many factors including priority effects58 and successional changes in microbial communities 59. fungi have been shown to shape the composition of the bacterial communities 60 and are thought to be more abundant in the early stages of decay with fungal mycelia doubling faster than bacterial cells 61 and bacterial-fungal interactions facilitating decomposition 71160. although bacterial-fungal interactions are vital in plant cell wall digestion aerobic and anaerobic fungal activity has been shown to be responsible for most cell wall degradation by penetrating into plant tissues not normally available to bacteria 62.our finding that p. nigrolineatus fed a wood-diet or a mixed-diet has different fungal communities is consistent with previous and current research showing similar variations for the bacterial communities in different regions of the gi tract 30 mcdonald watts and schreier manuscript in preparation.

future studies will examine whether genes utilised for wood degradation are differentially expressed.marden et al.page 7while we have identified the fungal microbiota within the gi tract the type of symbiotic relationship that this partnership takes with bacteria and host is unknown.

the data was normalised on the sample containing the lowest number of sequences 28090 sequences were subsampled from the wood-fed fish and mixed-fed fish.marden et al.page 13figure 2.relative abundance of dominant fungal classes 1 detected by sequencing the its2 region from the various gi tract regions of p. nigrolineatus fed either a wood diet or a mixed diet.

sequences were assigned to otus with over 97 sequence identity.marden et al.page 14figure 3.otu network showing distribution of all otus identified to class detected via sequencing of the its2 region from different regions of the gi tract of p. nigrolineatus fed either a wood diet or a mixed diet.

2005 29795-811. pubmed 16102603ingham re trofymow ja ingham er et al.

2009 1791025-1042. pubmed 19568757araujo-lima ca forsberg br victoria r et al.

1986 2341256-1258. pubmed 17778007nelson ja wubah da whitmer me et al.

pubmed 23133540watts jem mcdonald r daniel r et al.

2011 51595-1608. pubmed 21472014wu s gao t zheng y et al.

