quantitative polymerase chain reaction results of fusobacterium nucleatum in gastroenterological cancer and adjacent normal tissues.fusobacterium detection rate ------------------------------------------------------------------------figure 1. analysis of linearity in quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay of f. nucleatum from the oral cavity.

oftissuebacterial---------------------------------------------------------spp.

in total four previous studies have reported detectable levels of f. nucleatum in colorectal cancer tissues 15161921. the f. nucleatum detection rate was 13-82 in colorectal tumor tissue and 3.4-81 in adjacent normal tissue table i. a single previous study detected f. nucleatum in pancreatic cancer the detection rate was 8.8 in tumor tissue and 28 in adjacent normal tissue 20. however the expression status of fusobacterium dna in esophageal gastric and liver cancer remains to be elucidated.validation of qpcr for f. nucleatum.

with esophageal gastric hepatocellular and other gastroentero- logical cancer table i 1516192021.elevated levels of f. nucleatum dna in colorectal cancer tissue are associated with certain molecules and cell functions including microsatellite instability the cpg island methylator phenotype and hmlh1 15 and are also associated with a lower density of t cells 16. a number of previous studies have associated high levels of f. nucleatum dna content with poor patient prognosis 1718 however other previous studies have reported that there is no association between the quantity of f. nucleatum dna and patient survival rate 1219. in one previous study the dna status of fusobacterium spp.

the nusg gene of f. nucleatum and the reference human gene solute carrier organic anion transporter family member 2a1 slco2a1 were amplified using custom-made taqman primerprobe sets applied biosystems thermo fisher scientific inc. waltham ma usa as previously described 18. the primer and probe sequences used for the custom taqman gene expression assay were as follows f. nucleatum forward primer 5'-tgg tgtcattcttccaaaaatatca-3' f. nucleatum reverse primer 5'-agatcaagaaggacaagttgctgaa-3'f.

in esophageal and colorectal cancer f. nucleatum was also detected in adjacent non-tumor tissue whereas f. nucleatum was not detected in the liver and pancreatic cancer tissuesfigure 2. relative quantity of f. nucleatum dna in gastroenterological cancer.

among all cancer cases that were positive for f. nucleatum the level of f. nucleatum dna content in esophageal and colorectal cancer ranged from 2.68x10-3 to 365.2x10-3 median 101.3x10-3 and from 2.10x10-3 to 166.7x10-3 median 5.08x10-3 respectively.heterogeneity of f. nucleatum in esophageal cancer tissue.

to evaluate the heterogeneity of the f. nucleatum dna within tumor tissues the f. nucleatum dna in the superficial and invasive areas of the 5 esophageal cancer tissues that were positive for f. nucleatum were evaluated fig.

the present study has demonstrated that the qpcr assay may reliably detect f. nucleatum dna from oral swabs as f. nucleatum is among the most prevalent species in the oral cavity 1224. the association between cycle threshold and input dna in the qpcr assay of f. nucleatum was linear r20.99.

although f. nucleatum is part of the normal flora of the oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal tracts f. nucleatum also expresses fada a bacterial cell surface adhesion protein that activates the wnt signaling pathway in colorectal cancer cells and consequently promotes tumor growth 14. therefore it may reasonably be expected that the detection rate of f. nucleatum is higher in gastroenterological cancer compared with liver and pancreatic cancer.

the non-spore-forming anaerobic gram-negative bacterium fusobacterium nucleatum is part of the normal flora of the human oral cavity and gut mucosa but is an established opportunistic pathogen in periodontal diseases 1-4 and several inflammatory diseases including inflammatory bowel disease 5-8 liver abscesses 910 and chorioamnionitis 11. two previous studies have reported an overabundance of f. nucleatum in colorectal cancer tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues 1213. following this a previous study demon- strated that f. nucleatum activates the e cadherinb-catenin signaling pathway via fada adhesion promoting colorectal cancer growth 14. fusobacterium subspecies spp.

in pancreatic cancer tissue was independently associated with the poor prognosis of patients 20.however whether f. nucleatum is present in other types of gastroenterological cancer including esophageal gastric or liver cancer has yet to be investigated.in the present study quantitative polymerase chain reaction qpcr method was evaluated to determine if it was able to detect the quantity of f. nucleatum dna from an oral cavity.

1. these results demonstrated that qpcr has the ability to quantify f. nucleatum dna in the oral cavity.qpcr of f. nucleatum in frozen tissue and ffpe.

f. fusobacterium.figure 3. f. nucleatum dna in superficial and invasive tissue areas.

however the presence of f. nucleatum in esophageal and gastric cancer tissues remains to be investigated.in addition the f. nucleatum expression levels in superficial and invasive areas of esophageal cancer tissues were compared and an increased level was observed in superficial areas.

