in a recent article in the journal of neurosci- ence  sought to determine whether the cognitive and af- fective components of thought suppres- sion are achieved through similar or distinct neural networks.in that study functional connectivity during a thought suppression task was as- sessed in healthy young adults n  24 using fmri.

in contrast ineffective suppressors re- ported frequent intrusions during sup- pression trials exhibited weaker coupling between regions in the suppression net- work and rated aversive scenes as more negative after attempted suppression.based on these findings the authors proposed that individual differences in thought suppression may reflect vulnera- bility to psychopathology and that train- ing in effective thought suppression may enhance psychological treatment out- comes.

supporting this model thought suppression is more frequent in clinical populations  and high thought suppression is predic- tive of increased symptom severity at later time points e.g.

the findings of  suggest that more research is warranted to specifically examine func- tional connectivity during thought sup- pression across different psychological disorders particularly prospective studies to determine whether functional abnormali- ties precede and predict symptom onset.another critical consideration for fu- ture research will be to establish the spec- ificity of the present findings to thought suppression.

identifying pre- cisely what is involved in effective thought suppression will be crucial to understanding whether it is possible to enhance perfor- mance in ineffective suppressors and therefore whether thought suppression will be a useful therapeutic tool.finally it will be important to deter- mine whether the current findings apply under ecologically valid conditions rele- vant to individuals with psychological dis- orders.

psychiatry res 2321-33. purdon c rowa k antony mm 2005 thought suppression and its effects on thought fre- quency appraisal and mood state in individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorder.

if the authors of the highlighted article have written a response to the journal club the response can be found by viewing the journal club at for more information on the format review process and purpose of journal club articles please see preparing-manuscriptjournalclub.rethinking the role of thought suppression in psychological models and treatmentcaitlin s.m.

on half the trials they were instructed to consciously recall the paired scene in detail on the remain- ing trials they were instructed to engage in thought suppression by blocking thoughts of the paired scene and instead blanking their mind while fixating on the face cue.

finally participants underwent an associative rec- ognition test and rated the emotional va- lence of each of the original scenes.using dynamic causal modeling and bayesian model selection  identified the direction of com- munication between a network of brain regions that were differentially activated during thought suppression.

journal clubcontext of established psychological mod- els that have long characterized thought suppression as a key maintaining factor across a range of disorders notably obse- ssive-compulsive disorder ocd and post- traumatic stress disorder ptsd.ocd is characterized by the presence of recurrent and persistent intrusive thoughts images or impulses that cause marked anxiety and distress  .

for example an individual with ocd may believe that having an intrusive thought e.g.

the use of thought suppression to regulate negative emotions may bring some initial short-lasting relief but often has detrimental long-term effects.

these include a paradoxical increase in the frequency of intrusive thoughts rebound effects and strengthening of negative appraisals when thought suppression fails ineffective con- trol.

unfortunately it seems that thought sup- pression can lead to paradoxical increases in the frequency of intrusions and the in- tensity of associated distress a phenome- non known as the rebound effect that is observed across a variety of clinical condi- tions e.g.

in addition to the negative cycle created by rebound effects failed attempts at thought suppression i.e.

