endozoicimonaceae were found exclusively in coral samples and rhizobiales pseudoalteromonadaceae and vibrionaceae were more abundant in coral samples than seawater samples.there were significant differences in community structure between corals and the ambient seawaterpermanova pseudo-f  3.62 p perm  0.024. pairwise testing showed that the microbial communities in brown and orange morphs of montastraea cavernosa were not significantly different from each other orange vs brown permanova t  0.932 p perm  0.504 but were significantly different than seawater samples seawater vs orange permanova t  2.57 p perm  0.011 seawater vs brown permanova t  2.41 p perm  0.016. cyanobacteria were well-represented taxonomically in coral samples with 62 otus but it represented only 0.57 to 3.97 of total reads recovered and there was no significant difference in the commu- nity structure of cyanobacteria between orange and brown morphs of m. cavernosa permanova t  0.99 p perm  0.497 after a bonferroni correction to avoid a type 1 error using a p  0.025 significance cutoff.

for m. cavernosa the orange and brown color morphs occur side by side in the same environment which creates a natural comparative experiment to investigate multiple aspects of the biology of host and microbiome in this species of coral.in this study we assess the community composition of the microbiome for both color morphs of montastraea cavernosa using gene-targeted amplicon sequencing and potential physiological differences in the host and microbiome using rnaseq based transcriptomics.

also our analysis using aflpop correctly assigned orange samples to the orange population 87.5 of the time whereas brown samples were correctly categorized 50.5 of the time.amova was then used to compare the relative levels of genetic differentiation between brown and orange colonies at lsi relative to those between brown colonies from the different locations surveyed in brazeau et al.. brown samples from lsi little cayman and san salvador had an average phst of 0.091 p  0 with phst values for individual locations varying from 0.0809 to 0.1165 table s5.

where applicable  indicates a significant difference p  0.05 for each gene between the brown and orange morphs of montastraea cavernosa.figure 5. global differential expression analysis on normalized count data using the edger pipeline red dots are significantly different between brown and orange morphs of montastraea cavernosa while blue dots are not significant for the host symbiodinium spp and microbiome.differential expression analyses.

illumina sequencing produced between 17005983 and 20874498 paired-end read pairs for the brown morph and between 20823031 and 22747092 paired-end read pairs for the orange morph of montastraea cavernosa for a total of 122.5 million reads from fragments averaging 240 nucleotidesfigure 1. a bar graph representing average percent contribution of the most dominant prokaryotic phyla relative to the total abundance in the color morphs of montastraea cavernosa compared to the surrounding ambient seawater.

the minimal changes in transcription observed in many studies of dinoflagellates suggest that either much of the gene regulation occurs post-transcriptionally or that specific targeting of the spliced-leader sequences may be necessary to increase the recovery of many transcripts.the differential expression of prokaryotic genes in the metatranscriptome provided no additional conclusive physiological differences between the brown and orange morphs of montastraea cavernosa except in the form of another cyanobacterial marker psbd d2 protein of photosystem ii in cyanobacteria which adds support to the reported differential expression of targeted genes described above and other data presented here such as the number of cyanobacterial reads and flow cytometry data.the analysis above provides an important examination of the genetic metagenetic and transcriptomic under- pinnings for the differences in the co-occurring color morphs of the coral montastraea cavernosa.

we used fixation indices phst to quantify the levels of genetic differentiation between brown and orange morphs of m. cavernosa at lsi compared to the differentiation reported in previously published data on colonies of m. cavernosa from different geographic locations and depths.

these average phst values indicate that there is less genetic differentiation between populations from different locations than was observed between brown and orange morphs at lsi from all depths including 15 m.discussionhere we have shown that the brown and orange morphs of m. cavernosa represent two significantly different genetic populations.

the analysis of tissue homogenates using flow cytometry showed a distinct phycoerythrin signature and a size range of 1.0 to 3.0 um diameter as previously reportedin the orange morph of montastraea cavernosa compared to the brown morph fig.

.global patterns of differential expression between the brown and orange morphs of montastraea cavernosa were analyzed using the software package edger.

bray-curtis similarity of square-root transformed read counts was analyzed using permanova and pcoa in primer 7 using 9999 permutations.population genetics of montastraea cavernosa color morphs.

we searched the primary assembly using an e-value of 1 x 10-5. transcripts matching cnidarians were retained as putative montastraea cavernosa transcripts transcripts matching symbiodinium spp.

these quality control measures show that the m. cavernosa transcriptome is structurally sound and contains a high proportion of expected transcripts.montastraea cavernosa transcriptomes.

.looking specifically at transcripts related to apoptosis pigment production and immune functions we find that the montastraea cavernosa host transcriptome contains multiple elements of the vertebrate apoptosis path- way including caspases bcl-2 dna topoisomerase and map-kinase activating death domain as well as multiple transcripts of other stress related genes such as heat shock transcription factor and heat shock proteins table s1.figure 2. results of flow cytometry analysis for cyanobacteria per unit area for color morphs of montastraea cavernosa.

enzyme based in corals and their multiple symbiotic partners is unknown even though the production of ros like the expression of fluorescent proteins increases with increasing irradiance.the transcriptomemetatranscriptomes of montastraea cavernosa described here are comparable to similar studies on m. cavernosa.

