studies have shown that v4 is the best region for phylogenetic studies particularly at the phylum level  .a key question is which sub-region v4 or v3-4 is more effective for phylogenetic studies of the human thanatomicrobiome to explore the potential to determinecadaver thanatomicrobiome signatures using two hypervariable regions of the 16s rrna gene we compared the performance of primers 515f-806r v4 to 357wf-785r conjoined v3-4 hypervariable regions  .

bifermentans c. limosum c. haemolyticum c. botulinum and c. novyi were discovered by next-generation sequencing of 16s rrna gene amplicons in previous thanatomicrobiome studies of human postmortem samples    .

permutational multivariate analysis of variance statistical tests based on unweighted unifrac distances demonstrated that taxa compositions were significantly different between v4 and v3-4 hypervariable regions p  0.001. of note we present the first study using the largest cohort of criminal cases to date that two hypervariable regions show discriminatory power for human postmortem microbial diversity.

in conclusion here we propose the impact of hypervariable region selection for the 16s rrna gene in differentiating thanatomicrobiomic profiles to provide empirical data to explain a unique concept the postmortem clostridium effect.keywords thanatomicrobiome clostridium 16s rrna gene v4 hypervariable regions v3-4 hypervariable regions postmortem clostridium effectintroductionthanatomicrobiome studies have determined that there is extremely rapid postmortem overgrowth of clostridium spp.

conceivably thanatomicrobiome analysis will be used to build predictive thanatos models employing the pce that can further designate the recovery of distinct community types associated with postmortem microbial communities.ethics statementthe study was approved by the committee for the protection of human subjects alabama state university institutional review board irb number 2016011. methods were in accordance with relevant guidelines and regulations regarding working with cadavers.

all analyses were conducted in r   and all plots were generated using the ggplot2 package  .resultsthanatomicrobiome sequencing of postmortem liver and spleen samplesbioinformatic characterization of relative abundances and microbial diversity of the thanatomicrobiome was performed through metagenomic analyses in order to determine if there was greater discriminatory power exhibited by 16s rrna gene v4 versus v3-4 hypervariable region amplicons.

44 1-56. damann f. e. williams d. e. and layton a. c. 2015. potential use of bacterial community succession in decaying human bone for estimating postmortem interval.

size selected pools were then quantified using qubit 2.0 fluorometer life technologies and loaded on an illumina miseq 2x300 flow cell at 10 pm and sequenced.bioinformatic analysisthe sequence data were analyzed using a standard microbial diversity analysis pipeline which consisted of two major stages denoising and chimera detection followed by microbial diversity analysis.

573 661-670. thomas t. b. finley s. j. wilkinson j. e. wescott d. j. gorski a. and javan g. t. 2017. postmortem microbial communities in burial soil layers of skeletonized humans.

cell 102 615-623. schuwirth b. s. borovinskaya m. a. hau c. w. zhang w. vila-sanjurjo a. holton j. m. et al.

we performed phylogenetic surveys of thanatomicrobiome signatures of cadavers' internal organs to compare the microbial diversity between the 16s rrna gene v4 hypervariable region and v3-4 conjoined regions from livers and spleens of 45 cadavers undergoing forensic microbiological studies.

the average shannon diversity index representing both regions was approximately 2.63 for the v4 region and 2.55 for v3-4 however significant differences were observed for gender manner of death and season of death anova p  0.001 .results of multivariate difference interactions between both 16s rrna gene regions and other variables resulted in statistical significance in region and location interaction adonis p 0.001 which demonstrated that location was the only factor that had a confounding effect on region and that other factors were not confounding results.

namely c. sordellii c. difficile c. bartlettiic.

methods 10 996-998. edgar r. c. haas b. j. clemente j. c. quince c. and knight r. 2011. uchime improves sensitivity and speed of chimera detection.

for weighted unifrac there was more variance among 16s rrna gene regions compared to unweighted unifrac pcoa with 30.07 of the variance explained by primary axis 1 and 26.92 explained by secondary axis 2.discussionhuman antemortem microbiotas are well documented by the human microbiome project   for various body locations of healthy individuals however currently there isa paucity of knowledge and need for an in-depth interpretation concerning postmortem microbial communities of internal body sites.

