at the end of the 8-week intervention the rats all 32 weeks of age were bred with male sprague-dawley rats obtained from the university ofcalgary life and environmental science animal resource centre calgary ab usa and pregnancy confirmed by the presence of a copulation plug.dams in the obese-hfs group n  12 continued on the hfs diet throughout pregnancy and lactation while all other dams were fed a control ain-93g diet.

at mating the obese-hfs dams weighed sig- nificantly more than the obese-ofs obese-ofs  s and lean- control dams p  0.05. during pregnancy the obese-ofs and obese-ofs  s dams gained the least amount of weight which was significantly different from lean-control obese-s and obese-hfs rats.

the rats withthe highest weight gain were then randomized into one of four intervention groups for 8 weeks with ain-93 control background diet 1 obese-control obese rats consuming control diet during intervention 2 obese-ofs obese rats consuming 10 ofs diet during intervention 3 obese-s obese rats treated with sitagliptin drug during the intervention and 4 obese-ofs  s obese rats treated with combination treatment.

the obese-ofs  s rats lost weight during the intervention phase whereas the ofs and s treatments attenuated weight gain compared with obese-hfs p  0.05. gestational weight gain was lowest in obese- ofs  s rats and highest in obese-hfs rats p  0.05. prepregnancy intervention did not affect reproductive parameters but did affect pregnancy outcomes including litter size.

although not significant none of the obese-hfs dams had a normal litter and across all treatments obese-hfs dams had the greatest number of adverse outcomes .maternal gut microbiota at birthmaternal gut microbiota composition at birth showed a significant treatment effect for clostridium cluster xi p  0.0001 wherein abundance was significantly higher in obese-hfs and obese-s dams compared with all other groups p  0.02 .

the obese-hfs dams gained the most weight during pregnancy p  0.05. differences in pup weight were only significant for female pups at birth wherein female pups born to obese-ofs  s dams were significantly heavier than female pups born to obese-control dams .no statistically significant differences were found across the maternal treatment groups for the reproductive parameters examined including fertility time to successful mating delivery and pregnancy index live births pup survival and sex prevalence .

p  0.02 with male offspring of obese-hfs having higher levels0.0081 - 0.001 relative abundance compared with lean-control 0.0024 - 0.001 obese-control 0.0037 - 0.001 obese-ofs 0.0038 - 0.001 and obese-ofs  s0.0037 - 0.001 but not obese-s 0.00550 - 001. in female offspring at weaning there was a significant difference p  0.018 in enterobacteriaceae with offspring of obese-hfs dams havinghigher levels 1.22 - 0.49 relative abundance compared with allother groups obese-ofs 0.120 - 05 obese-s 0.020 - 01obese-ofs  s 0.20 - 0.09 obese-hfs 0.26 - 0.06 andlean-control 0.45 - 0.15.at 11 and 17 weeks of age in male offspring there was a sig- nificant effect of time p  0.01 for bacteroidesprevotella spp.

no statistically significant differences exist between maternal treatment groups p  0.05.table 3  percentage of pregnancies with normal small or adverse litters in dams treated with ofs s both or neither.values are presented as mean percentage of all pregnancies resulting in normal small or adverse litter status n  9 for obese-ofs and obese-ofs  s n  10 for lean-control and obese-control n  11 for obese-hfs and obese-s.hfs high fatsucrose ofs oligofructose s sitagliptin.obese in the group name indicates diet-induced obese rats that underwent the respective prepregnancy interventions except obese-hfs that remained untreated and consumed hfs diet throughout the study.

while dietary intervention with ofs during pregnancy and lactation has previ- ously been shown to alter maternal gut microbiota substantially   intervening before pregnancy with ofs or sitagliptin did not have any lasting effects that could be detected at birth beyond increased c. cluster i and xi in obese-s dams which mimicked obese-hfs dams.

in females lean-control had significantly higher fast- ing ghrelin compared with all other groups p  0.036. although homa-ir tended to be lower and cisi tended to be higher p  0.10 in male obese-s this was not significantly different .energy intake was measured during weeks 4 7 10 13 and 16. in females there were significant differences detected at weeks 10 and 16 with obese-hfs consuming more energy than lean- control p  0.021 and more than obese-s p  0.008 at 10 weeks.

at 17 weeks however female offspring of obese-ofs and obese-s dams had significantly lower fasting blood glucose compared with obese-hfs and obese-control offspring p  0.05. glucose auc during the ogtt was significantly higher in obese-hfs female offspring compared with all other groups at 17 weeks p  0.05. as expected during the ogtt there was a significant effect ofabundance.

in pregnant women a probiotic supplement containing lactobacillus acidophilus lactobacillus casei and bifidobacterium bifidum decreased fasting glucose c-reactive protein and plasma malondialdehyde a marker of oxidative stress but did not affect pregnancy outcome .in the offspring the obesity status of the dams affected off- spring gut microbiota more so than the maternal preconception diet and drug interventions.

compared with the lean-control and the treated obese dams including the obese-control dams that did not receive ofs or sitagliptin prepregnancy and their only treatment was consuming control ain-93g diet during preg- nancy and lactation compared with obese-hfs that consumed hfs continuously.

the level of significance was set at p  0.05. statistical differences are presented using superscripts where mean values with different superscripts are significantly different p  0.05. for example if three groups have superscripts of a group 1 b group 2 and ab group 3 respectively then groups 1 and 2 are significantly different because they have unique superscripts whereas group 3 is not significantly different from group 1 or 2 because they share a common superscript.resultsmaternal weight reproductive parameters and pregnancy outcomethe obese-ofs  s group lost weight during the treatment phase and this was statistically different from all other groups .there was a significant attenuation in weight gain in the obese- ofs and obese-s groups compared with obese-hfs.

the inclu- sion of the lean-control group which had never been obese nor consumed the hfs diet allowed us to determine if our interven- tion could mitigate the effects of obesity induction and restore pregnancy outcomes to those of the normal reference rats.

