the pgs that supported the growth of l. acidophilus were uti- lized poorly or not at all by other common hgm strains underscoring the metabolic specialization of l. acidophilus.

conservation of the loci in selected lactobacilli from the l. delbrueckii group and the amino acid sequence identities relative to l. acidophilus ncfm are shown.

phenotypic growth assays of l. acidophilus ncfm and its knockout variants were performed in biological triplicates whereas the growth screening of other l. acidophilus strains or other lactobacillus species was performed in biological duplicates.

the pg utilization loci are conserved in l. acidophilus and closely related lactobacilli in cor- relation with versatile growth on these compounds.

these findings highlight the role of human gut l. aci- dophilus and select lactobacilli in the bioconversion of glycoconjugated phytochemi- cals which is likely to have an important impact on the hgm and human host.importance thousands of therapeutically active plant-derived compounds are widely present in berries fruits nuts and beverages like tea and wine.

to a lesser extent lactobacilli also possess atp-binding cassette abc importers for uptake of nutrients and abc exporters for which the specificities of most are unknown.here we demonstrate the growth of l. acidophilus ncfm on chemically diverse and nutritionally relevant pg.

the pg utilization loci are conserved in the l. acidophilus species and closely related lactobacilli and correlate with versatile growth on these com- pounds.

acidophilus were utilized poorly or not at all by other common hgm strains underscoring the metabolic specialization of l. acidophilus.

these findings highlight the role of human gut l. acidophilus and select lactobacilli in modulating the availability and bioactivity of glycoconjugated phytochemicals and these modulations are likely to have an important impact on the hgm and their host.resultsl.

the growth of l. acidophilus ncfm was evaluated on 11 chemically diverse nutritionally relevant andor therapeutically active pg after 24 h of growth  see table s1 in the supplemental material.

the compounds that support growth of l. acidophilus are shown in green.

l. acidophilus displayed versatile growth on pg together with lactobacillus plantarum subsp.

generally the ability to grow on pg was more common in strains isolated from the human gut niche than in counterparts from other ecological envi- ronments.growth on plant glycosides upregulates carbohydrate metabolism and host interaction genes in l. acidophilus ncfm.

global transcription was analyzed by transcriptome sequencing rna-seq in early- to mid-exponential-phase l. acidophilus ncfm cultures growing on lactose or glucose as well as the growth-supporting pgs amygdalin esculin and salicin which were selected based on their availability and chemical diversity.the growth on lactose and the pgs differentially upregulated less than 10 of the 1832 predicted protein-coding genes compared to glucose table s3.

growth on pg appeared to promote increased host interaction and adhesion which was also observed for l. rh- amnosus after pretreatment with the pg rutin and phloridzin .specific phosphotransferase uptake systems and specialized phospho-j3-gluco- sidases are essential for growth on plant j3-glucosides.

