reduction of accumulateduremic toxins by canagliflozin could provide a potential therapeutic option in chronickidney disease.3introductionchronic kidney disease ckd in particular with concomitant diabetes mellitusincreases the risk of progression to end-stage renal disease cardiovascular morbidityand all-cause mortality 17 35. progression of ckd leads to accumulation ofdeleterious uremic toxins which further accelerates the progression of ckd and isinvolved in a variety of ckd-related complications 52. p-cresyl sulfate pcs andindoxyl sulfate is are representative uremic toxins that exert multimodal harmfuleffects such as the induction of oxidative stress fibrosis and inflammatory responses46 54. high plasma levels of pcs and is have been associated with progression toend-stage renal disease and mortality in ckd patients 3 13 24 59. additionally pcsis associated with vascular calcification insulin resistance and mineral bone disorder inckd 21 25 50. thus reducing the levels of retained uremic toxins is an importanttherapeutic target in ckd 24 53.the intestinal environment including the microbiota play a key role in theaccumulation of uremic toxins.

n6 for normal n8 for rfvehicle and rfcana.figure 4. effect of canagliflozin on plasma levels of uremic toxinsa plasma levels of microbiota-derived uremic toxins p-cresyl sulfate indoxyl sulfateand trimethylamine n-oxide tmao.b plasma levels of micorobiota-independent uremic toxins asymmetricdimethylarginine adma symmetric dimethylarginine sdma andguanidinosuccinic acid gsa.

the urinary levels of pcs and is were increased in the rfvehicle group12compared with the normal group because the higher plasma level leads to a higherfiltered load into the urine figure 5. however canagliflozin treatment did not show asignificant increase in the urinary levels suggesting that the reducing effect ofcanagliflozin on the plasma levels was not mainly attributed to the promotion of urinaryexcretion of pcs and is.intestinal effects of canagliflozin on scfa productionto examine the intestinal effects of canagliflozin we analyzed the levels of organicacids including scfas in the cecal contents of rfvehicle and rfcana group mice.canagliflozin treatment significantly increased levels of the cecal scfas acetatebutyrate and propionate in the rf mice figure 6a.

because various uremic solutes are derived from proteinfermentation by colonic microbiota the gut microbial status affects the plasma levels ofuremic toxins 30. colonic fermentation of dietary tyrosine and tryptophan generatesp-cresol and indole respectively both of which are metabolized to pcs and is 6 54.in ckd microbiome composition and the intestinal environment are altered from asymbiotic to a dysbiotic state 55. the consequent increase in colonic proteinfermentation leads to elevated plasma levels of microbiota-derived uremic toxins 57as does decreased urinary clearance resulting from impaired renal function.

because the modulation of theintestinal environment reduces the production of microbiota-derived uremic toxins wesupposed that canagliflozin may influence the levels of retained uremic toxins in ckd.5here we examined the effects of canagliflozin on accumulated uremic toxinsusing ckd model mice.

these results indicate that canagliflozin treatment did not significantlyaffect the damage or impaired function observed in the rf mice.effect of canagliflozin on plasma uremic toxinsto examine whether canagliflozin affects the accumulation of uremic toxins wemeasured the plasma levels of six representative uremic toxins pcs is tmaoadma sdma and gsa by lc-msms 43-45 figure 4a and 4b.

as wepreviously reported pcs is and tmao are microbiota-derived uremic toxins whoseplasma levels are strongly influenced by the microbial composition 30. by contrastadma sdma and gsa are microbiota-independent uremic toxins whose plasmalevels are not related to the gut microbiota 30.plasma pcs levels were 13.7-fold higher in the rfvehicle group than in thenormal control group figure 4a.

thus the reduction in retained uremic toxinsfollowing canagliflozin treatment could provide a potential therapeutic option in ckd.recently canagliflozin was reported to slow the progression of renal function declineindependently of glycemic effects 15 36. since high pcs levels are associated with anincreased risk of end-stage renal disease as well as that of cardiovascular diseases 2659 the reducing effect of uremic toxin might play a partial role in the renoprotectiveeffect of canagliflozin.our findings suggest that the intestinal effect of canagliflozin in the reductionof plasma uremic toxins was achieved via sglt1 inhibition.

canagliflozin treatment in the rf mice markedlyreduced the elevated plasma pcs levels 75 reduction compared with the vehiclegroup 9.3-1.7 and 2.3-1.6 um in the rfvehicle and rfcana groups respectively.plasma is levels were 5.2-fold higher in the rfvehicle group than in the normal group.the elevated plasma is levels were also significantly reduced by canagliflozin 26reduction compared with the vehicle group 86.8-1.7 and 64.7-1.6 um in therfvehicle and rfcana groups respectively.

the most potent reducing effect wasobserved for pcs plasma levels of pcs have been reported to be greatly influenced bymodulation of the microbiota 14 34 42. the intestinal effects of canagliflozinincreased colonic scfa levels and altered gut microbial composition independently ofblood glucose levels.

in the presentstudy the levels of the microbiota-independent uremic toxins adma sdma and gsawere significantly although not strongly reduced suggesting that sglt2 inhibition bycanagliflozin treatment may be involved in reducing plasma uremic toxins.

ph.d.department of medical science tohoku university graduate school of biomedicalengineering sendai japan.e-mail 36tel 81-22-717-7163fax 81-22-717-71682abstractaccumulation of uremic toxins which exert deleterious effects in chronic kidneydisease is influenced by the intestinal environment the microbiota contributes to theproduction of representative uremic toxins including p-cresyl sulfate and indoxyl sulfate.canagliflozin is a sodiumglucose co-transporter sglt 2 inhibitor and it also exerts amodest inhibitory effect on sglt1.

by contrastcarbohydrate fermentation is decreased in ckd resulting in reduced formation ofhost-beneficial metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids scfas 30 57. thus the4intestinal environment has recently been considered a therapeutic target of uremia andckd 16. treatment by probiotics and prebiotics has been reported to reduce plasmalevels of pcs and is and to exert potential renoprotective effects 5 29 48. wepreviously showed that a laxative drug lubiprostone ameliorated renal damage in ckdby improving the intestinal environment and reducing uremic toxin levels 31suggesting that modulation of the intestinal environment is effective for ckd treatment.canagliflozin is a sodiumglucose co-transporter sglt inhibitor used for thetreatment of diabetes mellitus in clinical settings.

canagliflozin reduced the plasma levels of uremic toxinsincluding pcs and is with resulting intestinal effects such as increased intestinal levelsof scfas and alterations in the gut microbiota composition.6materials and methodsmaterialscanagliflozin was obtained from mitsubishi tanabe pharma co. osaka japan.hydroxypropyl methylcellulose hpmc and adenine were purchased from alfa aesarward hill ma usa and wako pure chemical industries osaka japan respectively.the adenine-containing diet was obtained from clea japan tokyo japan.animal studyall animal experiments were approved by the animal committee of tohoku universityschool of medicine.

these findings suggest that canagliflozin treatment slightlybut significantly altered the composition of the gut microbiota and partly improved thedysbiotic state in the rf mice.although the microbial species responsible for p-cresol production have notbeen fully elucidated several p-cresol-producing bacteria have been reported inprevious studies including clostridium difficile 7 and proteus vulgaris 56. howeverthe present analysis did not detect these bacteria in the sample suggesting that otherbacteria may also contribute to the production of p-cresol in the mice.14discussionthe present study showed that canagliflozin which exerts intestinal and renal effectsreduced plasma levels of uremic toxins and altered intestinal metabolites and themicrobiota composition in the ckd model mice.

