then 104 patients were included in the final analysis table 1 consisting of 33 patients with uc and 71 patients with cd.

the percentage of patients with a smoking history was 29.8 31104. the proportion of patients with a bachelor degree or above was 47.1 49104.effectivenessin this study we analyzed the changes on treatment strategies for ibd patients during one year before and after fmt.

as shown in figure 1 5-asa was the most important drug for maintaining clinical remission of ibd patients both before 87.5 91104 and after fmt 85.6 89104. the percentage of patients receiving the treatment of corticosteroids pre- fmt was 38.5 40104 but it decreased by nearly half post-fmt 20.2 21104. besides the rate of patients who used biologics decreased from 24.0 25104 before fmt to 0 after fmt.

as for the different age groups patients who were less than or equal to 24 year-old benefited most with a positive nb of  cny 60000. as for the disease classification patients with cd achieved more health and economic benefits with a positive nb of  cny 50000. and from both medical and societal perspectives female patients achieved more cost-effectiveness as well as the non-smokers did.sensitivity analysisprobabilistic sensitivity analysis varying all parameters simultaneously showed that the results were robust with the majority of monte carlo simulations clustered together.

therefore this study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness and economic value of fmt for the treatment of ibd in china.resultspatient characteristicsa total of 222 patients with moderate to severe ibd underwent fmt in this study and 118 patients were excluded according to the exclusion criteria.

similarly it also indicated that fmt was a cost-effective option for ibd patients with an icer of -207417 cnyqaly and apositive nb of cny 48395. the cost-effectiveness plane for fmt was presented in figure 2.subgroup analysisaccording to table 4 the baseline factors such as the patients' age gender smoking status and disease type were included for assessing the cost-effectiveness of fmt.

moreover this study showed that switching from previous medication therapy to fmt could effectively improve the patients' life quality and relieve the patients' economic burden.in this study as for the medical treatments for ibd 5-asa was used as the dominated maintenance drug both during one year before and after fmt.

however some ibd patients achieved no response to ifx and the incidence rate of primary non-response was about 10 to 30 19. the secondary non-response rate was 23 to 46 which was defined as re-emergence of symptoms in ibd patients who had achieved clinical remission from the initial treatment 20.in our study the ifx utilization ratio before fmt was 24 because ifx was not covered by medical insurance in china in recent years.

104 patients with ibd received fmt were recruited.

the willingness- to-pay threshold was set to the value equal to three times china's per capita gdp 141240 cnyqaly 2014. from the health-care perspective fmt strategy was 73 likely to be cost-effective compared with the conventional therapy before fmt with an icer of -185712 cnyqaly and a positive nb of cny 45150. from the societal perspective fmt strategy was 75 likely to be cost-effective with an icer of -207417 cnyqaly and a positive nb of cny 48395. moreover younger patients  24 females non-smokers and crohn's disease cd achieved more benefits.

current treatment strategies for ibd consist of 5-aminosalicylic acid 5-asa corticosteroids antibiotics immunomodulators and biological agents while some studies have shown that some probiotics enteral nutrition and traditional chinese medicine may also play an important role in maintaining long-term remission of ibd 4. however the huge financial burden and the limited clinical response are still primary challenges to patients.

researchers and physicians have never stopped to explore the novel therapies with cost-effectiveness for improving patients' life quality.fecal microbiota transplantation fmt as a new strategy to treat gut dysbiosis has showed its potential therapeutic role in ibd 5-16. but the use of fmt in ibd is still controversial especially in crohn's disease due to a lack of large randomized controlled trials to prove its efficacy.

given new treatment strategies and drugs might bring a better clinical efficacy but with a larger economic burden to the patients we should take the economic value of them into serious consideration.

the high cost of ibd is driven especially by biological therapy and surgery and fmt as an alternative therapy might be able to reduce the economic burden on patients and society.

during our recent pilot studies 7 10 for safety feasibility and efficacy of fmt on ibd we recorded the medical and societal cost of patients during one year before and after fmt.to ensure optimal distribution of treatment regimes for ibd it is vital that new therapies should be evaluated in terms of medical economics and effectiveness.

