it contained 1 g l-1 of esculin 0.3 g l-1 of ferric chloride 1 g l-1 of casein hydrolysate 25 g l-1 of yeast extract 8 ml l-1 of glycerol and 20 g l-1 of agar.

this variety is frequently used for the production of ice wines with different personalities directly connected to the terroirs of the central european wine region across the borders of austria czech republic and slovakia.in this study we combined different culture media and culture-in- dependent approaches dna and rna analysis based on denaturing gel gradient electrophoresis dgge coupled with clone libraries construction in order to have a view of the microbiota dynamics on grapes and during the different fermentation phases of veltlinske zelene ice wine.materials and methodssampling and isolation of microorganismsthe samples were grape berries and must of veltlinske zelene variety from modra slovakia.

to isolate fungal members yeast extract peptone dextrose ypd and potato dextrose agar pda  were used while to bacterial strains were used r2a for the isolation of a broad spectrum of bacteria glucose yeast extract calcium carbonate agar gyc for the cultivation of acetic acid bacteria glucose 50 g l-1 yeast extract 10 g l-1 calcium carbonate 20 g l-1 agar 20 g l-1 50 mg l-1 nisin de man-rogosa-sharpe mrs generic medium for lactic acid bacteria anaerobic conditions mrs-tomato mrs-t this medium was used in order to enhance the isolation of lactic acid bacteria especially oenococcus strains anaerobic conditions .

the com- position of the bacterial microbiota of these two types of berries is really different but one important phenomenon can be seen l. lactis strains are present already in damaged berries and persist through ice berries until the end of fermentation m2.

the b- glucosidase production is connected with esculin hydrolysis and the microorganisms that possess this ability appeared reddish-brown to dark brown on agar with a slight clear zone around them.esterase activity was detected on tween 80 agar containing 10 g l-1 of peptone 5 g l-1 of nacl 100 mg l-1 of cacl2 15 g l-1 of agar.

tupolevova 2 851 01 bratislava slovakiaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords ice wine bacteria yeasts microbiota esteraseb-glucosidasea b s t r a c t culture-dependent and culture-independent strategies were applied to investigate the microbiota of autumn undamaged and damaged berries winter berries and ice wine must samples of gruner veltliner veltlinske zelene from small carpathian wine-producing region.

the presence of l. lactis was confirmed until m1 by rna and dna approaches while in m2 it was not detected probably because being masked by contaminating bac- teria.the culture-dependent analysis showed the dominance of lactic acid bacteria members in winter berries although the culture-independent analyses described different microbiota.

1. dynamics of yeasts in different berries and ice-wine samples.

rna was extracted using spectrumtm plant total rna kit sigma-aldrich following the instructions of the pro- ducer protocol b. after elution the rna was treated by dnase i thermo fisher scientific waltham massachusetts usa and part of it directly transcribed to cdna.

dgge was run on dcode system bio-rad in 0.5 x tae 20 mmol l-1 tris 10 mmol l-1 acetate 0.5 mmol l-1 na2 edta ph 8.0 at 200 v and 60 degc for 3 h and 5 h for bacteria and eukaryotes respectively.clone libraries construction and sequencingthe rest of the pcr products from the first amplifications were used for the construction of bacterial 16s rrna and eukaryotic 28s rrna clone libraries.

the rna analysis showed the presence of different yeasts strains belonging to genus metschnikowia and to species saccharomyces cerevisiae which re- presented 73 of detected fungal operational taxonomic units otus .

saccharomyces cerevisiaestrains were already recovered from the damaged berries in septemberd and during the various fermentation steps of winter berries.

s. cerevisiae strains were recovered already in september from damaged berries however the culture-independent approach was able to detect them only in winter berries and then until the end of must fermentation.

lactic acid bacteria were isolated from da- maged berries the microbiota of this sample showed a large number of identified taxons involving members of different bacterial phyla such as firmicutes proteobacteria and actinobacteria.

2. dynamics of bacteria in different berries and ice-wine samples.

