interestingly swidsinski also presented two healthy women by amsel criteria in which confluent biofilms were present.the attempt to cluster vaginal microbiota clades based up- on different study parameters from the subjects themselves to the way samples were collected processed and analyzed and the inherent limitations of sequencing methods contributes more confusion into the scientific literature and what bv is or is not.so collectively these studies show that bv is not defini- tively a disease as diagnosed clinically or using various mi- croscopy microbiota analysis and wet lab techniques.it has long been thought that the vaginal microbiota con- stitute a first line of defense against invasive organisms hickey et al.

four tests were used to diagnose bv comprising a ph of vaginal fluid  4.5 the finding of thin white yellow homogeneous dis- charge clue cells covered in bacteria seen under the micro- scope plus detecting a fishy odor on adding 10 potassium hydroxide to the wet mount amsel et al.

were reported to be adhering to vaginal cells in patients with bv swidsinski et al.

there is no argument that all products need to be proven to be safe but if naturally occurring lactobacilli could be sold to restore and maintain vaginal health would this provide sufficient remuneration for companies to conduct more and larger clinical trials to date meta-analyses onprobiotics to treat andor prevent urinary tract infections and bv show promise but require more clinical studies senok et al.

even if probiotics are confirmed to treat bv symptoms and signs and to reset the vaginal microbiota to one that is associ- ated with health the need to have them follow a drug regula- tory tract should be reassessed.we owe it to women to make every effort to improve the way vaginal health is described maintained and restored.compliance with ethical standards this article does not contain any original studies with human participants or animals performed by the author.conflict of interest the author declares that he has no conflict of interest.referencesalbert ay chaban b wagner ec schellenberg jj links mg van schalkwyk j reid g hemmingsen sm hill je money d vogue research group 2015 a study of the vaginal microbiome in healthy canadian women utilizing cpn60-based molecular profil- ing reveals distinct gardnerella subgroup community state types.

this then led to the renaming of it as bv in 1983 spiegel et al.

however early culture findings holst et al.

vaginalis is not the sole cause of bv and many healthy women carry this organism even though different clades are present paramel jayaprakash et al.

the association of bv with cervicitis schwebke and weiss  and increased inflammatory markers sturm-ramirez et al.

including il-8 and an- tibody against g. vaginalis hemolysin cauci et al.

has been reported but a causal relationship between bv and pid has not been established taylor et al.

and others have concluded bv is not inflammatory weissenbacher et al.

however more recent reviews of studies on cytokines chemokines antimicrobial factors and cellular immune pa- rameters suggested that inflammation may occur in some bv patients mitchell and marrazzo  borgdorff et al.

indeed the 2014 review mitchell and marrazzo  also had a subheading of bbv is not the same microbiologic syndrome in all women which adds another definition to the discus- sion namely that bv is a bsyndrome.the third statement that bv is ba condition noted for dysbiosis cdc  or increased bacterial diversity has been supported by our microbiome and metabolomic studies mcmillan et al.

the presence of amines that cause odor would appear to be other markers of bv but none were statistically significant and predictive in our study mcmillan et al.

