two pore size filters were compared 5 mm iw5 and 0.22 mm iw0.22table 1relative humidity rh exposure time h temperature t and lighting conditions photosynthetic photon flux density ppfd in tests performed to assess the effect of rh on the survival of salmonella typhimurium on baby lettuce.and homogenized for 3 min at normal speed in a stomacher aes12180table 2relative humidity rh exposure time h temperature t and lighting conditions photosynthetic photon flux density ppfd in tests performed to assess the effect of fluctuating environmental conditions on the survival of salmonella typhimurium on baby lettuce.treatmentrh time ht 0cppfd mmolm2sinoculated control samples showed salmonella levels below the limit of detection 1 log cfug in plant samples 0 log cfuml in liquid samples.effect of relative humidity conditions on salmonella survival in growing plantsin the present study rh was a determining factor for the sur- vival or growth of the inoculated salmonella cells.

3. survival of artificially inoculated salmonella typhimurium 7 log cfug initial inoculum on baby lettuce plants grown at 85  and 60  relative hu- midity and irrigated with inoculated irrigation water a and inoculated distilled water b. values are the mean 9e15 lettuce plants - stdev of two replicate experiments.the first 24 h of about 4 and 3 log units at low and high rh respectively a. after this initial decrease numbers declined more slightly to reach after seven days about 3 log cfug at high rh and below the limit of detection 1 log cfug at low rh a. however we must acknowledge that an enrichment of samples to confirm lack of salmonella growth was not performed.

a 2 log units initial decrease was observed for inoculated salmonella loads when plants were grown at 60 rh while salmonella levels decreased approximately 1 log during the seven days period in inoculated plants grown at 85 rh a. the difference in the concentra- tion of salmonella between plants grown at 60 and at 85 rh wasstatistically significant p  0.01. available information indicatesfilters.

these results suggest that the indigenous microbiota was less affected by the rh conditions while the inoculated salmonella would have been more affected by rh conditions leading to significant differences in mesophilic counts.effect of fluctuating environmental conditions on salmonella survival in growing plantsthe effect of fluctuating environmental conditions described in on the survival of salmonella in baby lettuce was studied.

it was observed that independently of the inoculum size 4 and 7 log cfu g salmonella survived significantly p  0.01 better at higher than at lower rh conditions a and b. it has been reported that when plants are inoculated with large numbers of bacteria a fast initial decline of the inoculated population occurs but the remaining inoculated bacteria can persist for long periods of time .

along the 24 h changes in the rh temperature and lighting conditions were applied to simulate the fluctuating environmental conditions that occur in a greenhouse .to elucidate the effect of inoculum carrier on the survival of salmonella on lettuce plants iw dw and bpw were compared under the environmental conditions described in .

in contrast when dw was used as carrier survival was similar at both rh conditions b. as for the results presented in  salmonella survived significantly better when bpw was used as carrier both at high and at low rh p  0.05. observed a significant effect of the inoculum carrier on the sur- vival of salmonella thompson on butterhead lettuce detached leaves stored at 100 rh and with an environmental cycle withtemperature ranging between 12 and 20 0c.

this fact is important when selecting the protected cultivation system such as small or high tunnel channels or greenhouses that offer many advantages for example protection against adverse weather conditions .the effect of inoculum size on salmonella survival in growing plants at high and low rh conditions was also studied.

1. survival of artificially inoculated salmonella typhimurium on baby lettuce plants grown at 85  and 60  relative humidity with high inoculum level 7 log cfug a and low inoculum level 4 log cfug b. values are the mean 9e15 lettuce plants - stdev of two replicate experiments.rh that support survival and growth of the microorganism.

5. survival of artificially inoculated salmonella typhimurium 7 log cfug initial inoculum on baby lettuce plants grown at 85 relative humidity irrigated with inoculated irrigation water  and inoculated irrigation water filtered through0.22 mm filter .

when lettuce plants were grown under fluctuating environmental conditions salmonella survival was similar under both rh conditions.

in addition the fact that plants and inoculated bacteria were exposed to 4 fluctuating conditions in 24 h in the second test and only 2 conditions in the first test could also played a role.

further research would be necessary to understand the characteristics of the plant under fluctuating conditions such as variation in water content and stomata opening.effect of the inoculum carrier on salmonella survival in growing plantsin order to determine the impact of the inoculum carrier on the survivalgrowth of pathogenic microorganisms three different inoculum carriers were tested including irrigation water iw distilled water dw and buffered peptone water bpw.

thus plants can be artificially contaminated for a better understanding of the survival of pathogenic microorganisms under exposure to in- dividual climate variables.0740-0020c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.in this study the survival of salmonella typhimurium was assessed on baby lettuce exposed to different climate conditions and experimental choices inoculum size inoculum carrier using environmental test chambers.

to assess the effect of inoculum size plants were inoc- ulated with 4 and 7 log cfug of initial inoculum levels.in a second set of experiments environmental conditions were arranged similarly to the meteorological data corresponding to the month of march in murcia 37090 n-101' w spain as one of the most popular areas for the cultivation of leafy vegetables in europe.

