moreover members of the planctomycetes genus isosphaera a non- cyanobacterial organism with phototactic capabilities was found in low abundance table s21 otu 114. bacteroidetes which are present in 16s rrna sequences throughout lhc are present in several other lithifying microbialite systems.these organisms are known to be able to degrade high molecular weight organic matter and biopolymersand are often found as they are at cone pool in close relation to cyanobacteria and other primary producers.the possible symbiotic relationship between primary producers such as cyanobacteria and hetero- trophic bacteroidetes at cone pool warrants further exploration since these groups may contribute to biologically induced lithification.relevance to ancient microbialitesunlike the conical incipient stromatolites found in lake untersee antarcticaand modern stromatolites from obsidian pool prime yellowstone- the dendrolitic cones in cone pool are not laminated and thus comparisons with the most common conical stromatolites e.g.

the saturation state of stream water from cone pool and the outflow pool with respect to calcium carbonate oca was calculated using measured calcium ion concentrations temperature a saturation product ksp of 9.81 x 10-9 and phreeqc modeling software.inorganic and organic carbon and 13c bicarbonate uptake samples of individual dendrolitic cones with the underlying mat from cone pool and the microbial mat in the outflow pool were cored with a10 mm diameter plastic drinking straw and placed into individual testtubes 25 ml.

a. the geothermal spring upwelling that originates in cone pool trickles downstream to a second larger pool outflow pool.

cone pool and the outflow pool contain microbial mats yet uniquely cone pool contains partially lithified dendrolitic cones that emerge from an underlying laminated microbial mat foundation.

a relative abundance plots of mats based on 16s rrna gene sequencing from the outflow pool cone pool west and cone pool east adjacent to the dendrolitic cones adjacent mat.

dendrolitic cones from a geothermal pool cone pool at little hot creek lhc spring in the long valley caldera california usa fig.

cone tip cone middle and cone base labeledoutflow pool lhc outflow pool were determined by sequencing amplified libraries of small subunit ribosomal 16s rrna genes.

they also provide an analog to ancient microbialites.resultssite characterizationthe cone pool at lhc is a small geothermal pool that measures6 m by 4 m and is 0.75 m deep in the center.

physical and chemical characteristics of cone pool and the outflow pool spring water are presented in table .

at the time of sampling cone pool was substantially warmer 45.6 degc than the downstream lhc outflow pool 34.1 degc.

cone pool and the outflow pool exhibited similar slightly alkaline ph 8.08 and8.29 respectively and both were super-saturated with respect tocalcite oca  4.08 and 3.40 respectively figure s1.

concentra- tions of dissolved total co2 tco2 dissolved oxygen and ca2 k mg2 and na were similar between the cone pool and outflow pool table .

in both cases however the interlocking organization of filaments at cone pool and obsidian pool prime may give rise to firm microbiotically built physically stable macrostructures.

in the obsidian pool prime example of stromatolites in yellowstonerapid silicification of filaments occurred as hydrothermal fluids rich in dissolved silica cooled near the pool margins preserving the hourglass structures likely surrounding oxygen bubbles.

1 cone pool at little hot creek.

