defining a model microbial community aiming to increase plant productivity is now a major goal in plant-microbe research and biotechnology and combining -- omics technologies with network analyses would be key to reach a deep comprehension of plant microbial diversity and dynamics.

she is currently working on deciphering the genetic mechanisms of the mutualistic interaction between bacteria and their hosts to understand the molecular basis of microbial benefit towards host growth.franc ois leulierfranc ois leulier universite' de lyon -- institut de ge' nomique fonctionnelle de lyon igfl.

nutrition host genetic background and physiology are key regulators of microbial effect and bacteria in turn shape the host's transcriptional responses.

despite the extensive description of microbial benefits on host phys- iology experimental tools for non-model gut bacteria are still lacking.

the authors point out the need of a generalized tool-development pipeline that combines identification of optimal microbial growth and dna delivery conditions to successfully characterize genetic components for gene expression prediction and applica- tion of crispr technologies to novel gut bacteria spe- cies.

the leulier lab at igfl is currently developing research programs in bacteriology and animal physiology andwe live in a microbial planet.

in fact extending host- microbiota research into simpler and non-traditional organisms represents a healthy move in microbiota research and has allowed us to obtain an extraordinarily detailed yet mostly descriptive view of the microbial impact on the biology of different hosts.

microbial surface structures mostly based on carbohydrates are the essential elements for the establishment of successfulguest editorial microbiota microbiota and animal ecology evolution and physiology back to the future martino and leulier ixnutrition to decipher the functional interplays between the intestinal microbiota lactobacillus strains and chronic undernutrition and their influence on juvenile growth dynamics including wasting and stunting.interactions between plants and microbes.

this tightly-controlled symbiosis allows the plant to interfere and prevent metabolite loss to pathogens by recognizing its microbial partners through their metabolic profile.

in this regard discusses the microbial effects in the nematode caenorhabditis elegans.

in addition new specific molec- ular players have been identified in bacterial protection against viruses and exogenous stresses yet some microbial effects are still debated in drosoph- ila.

whether unfavourable changes in microbial composition -- known as dysbiosis -- are consequences from age-decline in gastrointestinal structure or a cause that induces gastric metaplasia and a shorter lifespan is still unclear.

potentially random population bottlenecks during intestine colonization and passive bacterial transmission are some examples of processes that can determine microbial load in the host and as a consequence its effect.ecology is also a central theme of host-microbiota interactions.

environmental and microbial signals induce foxo activity in the intestine which consequently regulates stem cell proliferation and increases resistance to infections.

the authors speculate that beyond host genotype envi- ronmental acquisition and colonization processes long- term habits can play a crucial role in inter-individual microbial variability.

