at the family level there was no clear relationship between bacterial diversity and total microbial counts with p. palmata showing the highest number of bacterial families but ranking fourth in microbial population while h. elongata had the lowest number of bacterial families and the lowest microbial population.bacterial isolates obtained from the eight seaweeds belonged to 27 genera and 56 species.

umbilicalis to 13 bacillales species and 2 non-bacillales species while isolates from u. pinnatifida belonged to 2 bacillales species and 13 non-bacillales species .of bacillus and a high variability in the bacterial population of seaweeds between pre-monsoon monsoon and post-monsoon seasons was recorded .by means of 16s rna gene library analysis it was found that red seaweed delisea pulchra contained 7 phyla including an estimated 79 bacterial species while green seaweed u. australis contained only 4 phyla including an estimated 36 bacterial species  .

it has been found that bacterial species and strains carrying out similar metabolic func- tions colonize similar taxa or groups of seaweeds  .0740-0020c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.after a review of numerous studies on the subject   the authors concluded that the bacterial core community in seaweed-bacteria interactions primarily consists of gammaproteo- bacteria followed by the cytophaga-flavobacterium-bacteroides cfb group alphaproteobacteria firmicutes and actinobacteria with relative abundances of 37 20 13 10 and 9 respectively.

the relationship between bacterial diversity and total microbial counts appeared more evident at the species level than at the family level with l. ochroleuca ranking first in the number of bacterial species and second in microbial population andh.

elongata ranking last in both the number of bacterial species and the microbial population.the occurrence of the 56 bacterial species to which isolates belonged varied considerably among seaweeds.

met- agenomic sequence analysis of u. australis microbiota   showed that the predominant sequences at the family level corresponded to rhodobacteraceae 37.0 flavobacteriaceae 15.0 sphingomonadaceae 12.5 saprospiraceae 11.2 and planctomycetaceae 3.3 and at the genus level to sphingopyxis 11.2 haliscomenobacter 4.8 krokinobacter 4.7 muricauda3.8 loktanella 2.2 hyphomonas 1.7 lewinella 1.3maribacter 1.2 and sulfitobacter 1.2. from the point of view of the physiological synergy between seaweeds and bacteria it has been suggested that the key level at which to address the assembly and structure of seaweed-associated bacterial communities may not be the species but rather the more functional level of genes .the bacterial diversity detected in the present study by means of culture-dependent techniques does not visualize the entire picture of the bacteria present in dehydrated seaweeds.

its use in further research on the subject would permit to complete the information on the taxonomical diversity and relative abundance of the bacterial genera present in dehydrated seaweeds.from the point of view of public health the viability and func- tionality of bacterial cells remain as the most adequate approach.

the 225 identified bacterial isolates belonged to 11 families 27 genera and 56 species.

bacillaceae was the family accounting for the highest number of isolates 111 followed by enterobacteriaceae 60 bacillales family xii incertae sedis 20 planococcaceae 11 moraxellaceae 7 paenibacillaceae 5 and pseudomonadaceae 5. bacterial species showing the highest occurrence in dehydrated seaweeds were bacillus megaterium b. licheniformis pantoea sp.

four of the bacillus species isolated from dehydrated seaweeds b. cereus b. licheniformis b. pumilus and b. subtilis are among those containing strains considered to be foodborne pathogens and nine of the isolated non- bacillales bacterial species have been reported to contain human opportunistic pathogenic strains.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionseaweeds are an estimable source of functional ingredients and bioactive compounds such as polyunsaturated fatty acids phytos- terols porphyrans fibre vitamins amino acids and minerals n. in spite of that fact their contribution to the diet of western countries is negligible in comparison with asian countries  .

bacterial strains colonize coexist and compete with each other in spatially segregated regions of the seaweed .

by means of molecular techniques it has been shown that the presence and abundance of the mem- bers of the bacterial community differ between healthy and diseased seaweeds .

some of the bacterial pathogens infecting seaweeds only express virulence genes under certain conditions or as opportunistic pathogens when the host is compromised .

on the other hand moisture loss and decreased water activity will inhibit bacterial growth during storage of dried sea- weeds at room temperature leading to a progressive loss of viability which would particularly affect non-spore-forming bacteria.information on the microbiota of dehydrated edible seaweeds is lacking.

dna was extracted with the genelute bacterial genomic dna kit sigma-aldrich tres cantos spain.

