based on diagnostic results they were classified into three groups normal 127 epithelial precursor lesions includ- ing dysplasia hyperplasia and hyperkeratosis 124 and cancer 125. individuals from the normal group showed neither epithelial precursor lesions nor oral cancer those in the epithelial precursor lesion group showed epithelial precursor lesions and those in the cancer group had oscc.

regarding the epithelial precursor lesion and normal groups patients with epithelial precursor lesions could be classified into two parts by 31 genera fig.

in addition other poorly abundant genera might also be associated with epithelial precursor lesions or oscc.discussionthe purpose of the present investigation was to compare the unstimulated salivary microbial profiles of patients with epithelial precursor lesions patients with oral cancer and normal controls.

the results from this investi- gation demonstrated that correlation networks of salivary microbiota were remarkably varied within the three groups and that five genera - bacillus enterococcus parvimonas peptostreptococcus and slackia - indicated sig- nificant differences between the epithelial precursor lesion and cancer groups.in our study most oral cancer patients were former or current chewers as were patients with epithelial pre- cursor lesions.

in conclusion we systematically investigated microbiota changes between normal epithe- lial precursor lesion and oral cancer patients and report that five genera revealed significant differences between the epithelial precursor lesion and cancer groups.

due to the nature of oral neoplasms the diagnosis of epithelial precursor lesions is relatively easy compared with that of other types of cancer.

however the transition from an epithelial precursor lesion to cancer is slowand requires further and continuous follow-up.

in this study we investigated microbiota differences between normal individuals epithelial precursor lesion patients and cancer patients with different lifestyle habits such as betel chewing and smoking using next-generation sequencing.

overall the oral microbiome compositions of five genera bacillus enterococcus parvimonas peptostreptococcus and slackia revealed significant differences between epithelial precursor lesion and cancer patients and correlated with their classification into two clusters.

these composition changes might havethe potential to constitute a biomarker to help in monitoring the oral carcinogenesis transition from epithelial precursor lesion to cancer.oral cancer ranks sixth among the most common cancers worldwide with specifically high prevalence rates in europe melanesia and southcentral asia.

reports have confirmed transitions from epithelial precursor lesion leukoplakia oral submucosal fibrosis and others to cancer over time-.

are linked to oral cancer and epithelial precursor lesions.

studies have used ngs to obtain complete cultured and uncultured bacterial profiles in oscc subjects and have identified enrichments of the species peptostreptococcus stomatis and streptococcus gordonii at tumour sitesand significantly lower abundance levels of firmicutes especially streptococcus and actinobacteria especially rothia in cancer samples.saliva is in direct contact with oral cancer and epithelial precursor lesions hence abnormal dna rna and protein molecules released by malignant cells can be easily obtained from saliva.

the number of both non-smokers and non-chewers was 85 of whom 72.9 6285 were normal 16.5 1485 were patients with epithelial precursor lesions and 10.6 985 had oscc table s3.

for example the number of former or current chewers was 230 of whom 15.2 35230 were normal 36.1 83230 were patients with epithelial precursor lesions and 48.7 112230 had oscc.

