note that kcs can also inter- fere with the adaptive immune response they are playmakers in coordinating immune responses due to their ability totable 1 major constituents of the innate immunity.compartmentscellsinflammatory mediators epidermiskcamps il-1b il-8 il-10lcil-1 tnf-a il-10 il-15fibroblastsil-6 tnf-a il-8 il-1 mmp-9mmp-2cross-talk with other epithelial and immune cells.melanocytes are epithelial cells recently described fordermisros no l-1 il-6 il-8 il-12moil-10 tnf-a tgf-btheir potential in modulating the immune response throughinflammatory cytokine production.

far from being a simple mechanical barrier the skin constitutes a network of effector cells and molecular mediators that constitute a highly sophis- ticated skin immune system sis as described by bos and kapsenberg in 1986 the cutaneous homeostasis mainte- nance is dependent on the cross-talk between several immune sentinels present in the different compartments of the skin and the interplay between innate and adaptive immune responses.

the interference of s. aureus with the host's immune responses has been well described over years but remains quite dependent on themodels the host's defense against s. aureus includes i the skin barrier and outcompetition with other strains for example s. epidermidis as described previously ii the innate immune responses mostly driven by antimicrobial peptide amp complement neutrophil and macrophage activation and iii the adaptive immune response.

these recruited cells induce reactive oxygen species ros and nitrogen oxide species nos production they also promote cell lysis and phago- cytosis and boost cell autonomous defenses such as apoptosis to eliminate invaders the ability of the innate immune cells to communicate with epithelial cells leading to an effective immune response is a key feature of the cutaneous immune system.

so far tlr1 2 3 4 5 6 and 9 have been shown to be expressed in a constitutive or inducible manner in kcs -as a response to stimulation kcs produce a wide panel of cyto- kines il-1 tnf-a il-6 g-csf tgf-b and il-10 chemo- kines cxcl-8 ip-10 growth factor il-6 gm-csf and tgf-a and amps b-defensins cathelicidins s100 family members and sebum resulting in either direct neutralisation of the pathogen or indirect activation of other immune senti- nels to launch a specific immune response table the nature of the immune response depends on the stimulus.

however the pathogens can access directly to the interior of the host through skin wounds and by outcompeting the normal flora 1. tlr-bearing cells kcs and lcs recognize pathogens and establish a highly coordinated immune response antimicrobial production to neutralize the pathogen 2 inflammatory mediator secretion to alert the immune cells 3 activation of innate immune cells such as natural killer cells nk to induce cell lysis andor phagocytosis such as macrophages to engulf pathogens 4 and maturation of dermal dcs that migrate into draining lymph nodes to prime t cell responses adaptive immunity 5.by kcs differ from those coming from professional cells b7-1 and b7-2.

the adaptive immune system mounts a stronger antigen-specific immune response when the innate immune response fails to eliminate pathogens.

this review aims at providing basic background information on the cutaneous immune system from major cellular and molecular players and the impact of its microbiota on the well-coordinated immune responses in host defense.introductionremarkable advances have been achieved over the past years to understand and characterize the immunobiology of the skin.

s. aureus is an excellent model of bacteria being part of a semiresident flora but able to switch as a pathogen as soon as it is left uncontrolled by other members of resident flora - the coevolution of this particular microorganism with the host's sis and its ability to get specific virulence genes easily and rapidly makes it a quite interesting target to understand how this system is dynamic.more recently there is increasing awareness of the importance of fungi and their interactions with the immune system influencing the immune homeostasis and inducing disease.

c. albi- cans interacts with the host's defenses in three major ways i innate response ii adaptive response and iii neuronal response -step 2 onset of the immune responseinnate immune response.

the innate immune system is designed to directly and rapidly respond to foreign pathogens by activating recognition systems and effector mechanisms figure the major innate immune cells are macrophages dendritic cells and natural killer cells that express a wide variety of pattern recognition receptors prr including two transmembrane proteins toll-like receptors tlrs and c-type lectin receptors.

kcs are the initiators of the immune response and thus could be perceived as immune sentinels.

the dermis is the intermediate layer composed of several specialised immune cells such as plasmocytoid dendritic cells pdc dermal dendritic cells ddc macrophages mo natural killer cells nk innate lymphoid cells ilc and t cells responsible of the immune response.

the quantity and the quality of an adaptive immune response depend on the strength of the innate immune response.

the adaptive immune response consists of humoral and cellular immune reactions carried by adaptive b and t cells respectively.

