these compositional and functional changes in the gut microbiota in early-stage chb patients suggest the potential contributions of gut microbiota to the progression of chb and thus provide new insight into gut microbiota-targeted interventions to improve the prognosis of this disease.keywords chronic hepatitis b gut sysbiosis 16s rrna gene sequencing serum metabolomics aromatic amino acidsintroductionchronic hepatitis b chb is a globally prevalent disease estimated to affect 240 million individuals in 2005 ott et al.

hence elucidating the characteristics of the gut microbiota in chb patients will help unravel the detailed pathogenic role of gut dysbiosis in the progression of liver disease and guide the management of gut microbiota-targeted therapies.to fulfill the above research purposes our study focused on early-stage chb patients whose child-pugh scores were not 9. these patients were selected due to the clinical consideration that they had not experienced severe liver damage or metabolic disorder.

these results not only expand our knowledge of the essential role of the gut microbiota in liver disease from a novel perspective but also might facilitate therapeutic strategies for monitoringaltering gut dysbiosis in chb patients.author contributionsjw yfz lz yyz yh and mz designed the study jw xz jl and qz performed the gut microbial experiments yw jd and ss performed the serum metabolic experiments yz jp and qf performed the clinical trail jw and mz performed the statistical analyses jw and mz wrote the paper.fundingthis work was supported by grants from the national science and technology major project 2012zx10005001-004 2012zx10005001-009 2009zx10004-601 the national naturalscience foundation of china 81373857 31330005 and the national natural science foundation of china general project 81273720.supplementary materialthe supplementary material for this article can be found referencesabubucker s. segata n. goll j. schubert a. m. izard j. cantarel b. l. et al.

revealed that germ-free mice could be protected from virus-induced liver disease suggesting the pathogenic role of gut microbes gut et al.

non-chimeric otu representative sequences were selected with 97 similarity threshold by uparse edgar 2013. the otu table was finalized by mapping all unique sequences to the obtained otus with the usearch edgar 2010 global alignment algorithm.definition of the gut dysbiosis index gdiwe propose a gdi to measure the severity of the overall gut microbiota shift in patients with a specified disease compared with healthy controls which is expressed by equation 1extraction kit d2501-01 omega bio-tek taiwan china.sequencing proceduresgdi  otupp-  otuhh1hypervariable region v3-v4 amplicons from the 16s rrna gene were sequenced by illumina miseq 2 x 300 bp paired-end following modifications platinum pfx dna polymerase c11708021 invitrogen usa was used during amplification.

a larger gdi value indicates a more severe gut dysbiosis status.inference of metagenomic functional contents of the gut microbiotathe qualified 16s rrna sequences were aligned against greengenes desantis et al.

our results indicate that the composition of the gut microbiota has already changed in patients with chb before the occurrence of severe liver lesions and is associated with the alterations in liver functions and serum metabolites suggesting that the shift in the gut microbiota plays a potentially pathogenic role in liver disease.

these findings provide new insight into gut microbiota-targeted interventions to improve the prognosis of chb.we proposed the gdi in this study to comprehensively describe the proportional change in the abundances of bad vs. good bacteria by measuring systematic shifts in the gut microbiota.

therefore special caution is required when using summed abundances at upper taxonomic levels to indicate structural alterations in the gut microbiota zhang and zhao 2016. our gdi calculation based on differential otus provides better resolution to describe the key relevant changes in the gut microbiota.

additional work including more subjects preferably with varying degrees of liver lesion severity and complete physiological examinations and serum metabolome information is required to further investigate and validate such associations.in this study by scanning compositional and functional changes in the gut microbiota of chb patients we observed cross-talk among gut dysbiosis physiological indices and serum metabolites that are reportedly associated with fibrotic and cirrhotic liver lesions.

 edited bylorenza putignani bambino gesu ospedale pediatricoirccs italyreviewed bycatalina dirney alba soto facultad de medicina universidad debuenos aires argentinaroman zahorec comenius university slovakia joao marcelo pereira alves university of sao paulo brazilcorrespondenceyufeng zhao liping zhao yongyu zhang yiyang hu menghui zhang specialty sectionthis article was submitted toinfectious diseases a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 24 july 2017accepted 30 october 2017published 13 november 2017citation wang j wang y zhang x liu j zhang q zhao y peng j feng qdai j sun s zhao y zhao l zhang y hu y and zhang m 2017 gut microbial dysbiosis is associated with altered hepatic functions and serum metabolites in chronic hepatitis b patients.

previous evidence has indicated that the dysbiosis of gut microbiota occurs after liver virus infection and is associated with severe liver disease.

the aim of this study is to elucidate the compositional and functional characteristics of the gut microbiota in early-stage chb and to understand their influence on disease progression.

we investigated the gut microbial composition of stool samples from 85 chb patients with low child-pugh scores and 22 healthy controls using the illumina miseq sequencing platform.

compared with the controls significant alteration in the gut microbiota was observed in the chb patients 5 operational taxonomic units otus belonging to actinomyces clostridium sensu stricto unclassified lachnospiraceae and megamonas were increased and 27 belonging to alistipes asaccharobacter bacteroides butyricimonas clostridium iv escherichiashigella parabacteroides ruminococcus unclassified bacteria unclassified clostridiales unclassified coriobacteriaceae unclassified enterobacteriaceae unclassified lachnospiraceae and unclassified ruminococcaceae were decreased.

