recently intestinal organoids were used to visualize the short-range wnt gradient in the intestinal stem cell niche17.paneth cells are important players in the intestinal stem cell niche but they are identified as nonessential constituents.

the data clearly demonstrate that paneth cells are a highly specialized cell type strongly involved in assisting to sharpen and maintain of the microbiome as well as in the establishment of the stem cell nichepaneth and stem cell networkthe small intestinal epithelium renews within 3-6 d. the extraordinary rate of cell renewal is driven by a vigorous proliferation within crypts and a highly dynamic movement of epithelial columns toward the villus tip.

the review provides an overview of the key points of paneth cell activities in intestinal physiology and pathophysiology.key words antimicrobial peptide paneth cell crohn's disease microbiome small intestinec the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.gassler n. paneth cells in intestinal physiology and patho- physiology.

in the upper part small intestinal mucosa and secretory ducts are shown arrowheads d colon mucosa in ulcerative colitis with disturbed crypt architecture increased numbers of stroma infiltrating inflammatory cells and paneth cell metaplasia arrowheads e higher magnification of ulcerative colitis-associated paneth cell metaplasia arrows in colon mucosa as demonstrated in d f paneth cell metaplasia arrows in tubular adenoma of the colon with low-grade dysplasia.and increased survival after lethal salmonella infe- ctions42.

it has been speculated that the lipid-associated exocytosis is an additive mechanism to the chemosensory system of ffars and enteroendocrine cells to perform synergisms between the intestinal microbiome and host metabolism.the release of amps from paneth cells into the intestinal mucus and lumen is initiated by stimulation of pattern recognition receptors prrs located on intestinal surfaces.

the important role of paneth cells in intestinal physiology and pathophysiology strongly supports the view that these cells are the guardian of small intestinal crypts.referencessancho e batlle e clevers h. live and let die in the intestinal epithelium.

some other epithelial and non-epithelial cell types are found at the mucosal surface including m-cells brushtuftcaveolated cells and several types of intraepithelial lymphocytes.enterocytes are most common in the surface epith- elium and are responsible for digestion and absorption of nutrients as well as in forming the intestinal border.figure 1 normal small intestinal crypts with basal orientated paneth cells.

consequently paneth cell disorders are involved in the pathophysiology of intestinal diseases.they are assisted by mucosecretinggoblet cells which producing several mucine types which are chemically different along the intestinal tract.

a detailed classification of enteroendocrine subtypes is possible by the specific intestinal hormones that are produced and the assistance of notch signalling in enteroendocrine cell differentiation23.paneth cells first described by gustav albert schwalbe in 1872 originate directly from intestinal stem cells4.

the intestinal epithelia descend from a distinct stem cell zone located in small intestinal crypts.

using a different strategy of intestinal math1 deficiency functional intestinal stem cells were found after paneth cell ablation19.

regional variation in the expression and secretion of paneth cell amps along the intestinal tract are well-balanced by the colonising activity of sfb with the establishment and shaping the intestinal microbiome46.the a-defensin hd6 secreted by human paneth cells acts in a way that is completely different to hd5.

some parallels exist between the both models including definition of a slow and a rapid cycling cell type and an assisting role of paneth cells in maintaining stem cell behaviour.maturing paneth cells migrate downward into small intestinal crypts where they reside for 3-6 wk11.

in addition to paneth cell functions in controlling the microbiome the cells are functionally and structurally involved in forming the stem cell zone of small intestinal crypts and involved in morphogenesis of the cva.

paneth cell metaplasia is seen throughout the gastro-intestinal tract but fre- quently manifests in the stomach and is associated with different intestinal injuries figure 3. in addition paneth cell metaplasia is found in extra-gastro-intestinal sites like the lung and tracheobronchial system pancreatico- biliary tract and the uro-genital tract but is a rarity in the nasopharyngeal system.

