in this study we continue to probe the effects of diet and phylogeny by assessing metagenomic and metabolomic profiles from the same fecal samples for which 16s rrna gene-derived membership was characterized previously 3. previous studies have demonstrated the power of diet in shaping microbial community membership and functionality in humans 4 and across mammals with different feeding strategies 5. a favorite scapegoat is the modern high-sugar diet which has previously been addressed with dietary intervention 1. however microbial function cannot be reliably inferred fromtaxonomic assignment horizontal gene transfer rapidly transmits adaptive functions across vast phylogenetic distances throughout the microbiome 6. while horizontal gene transfer has been posited as a community-level adaptive response to environmental selection 6 very few studies have analyzed or compared microbial membership metagenomic and metabolic profiles from the same sample set although see 1.comparing previously published data with captive lemur species that exhibit different gut morphologies and feeding strategies enables us to test predictions about dietary and microbial involvement in human health.we expect that p. coquereli's specific diet and gut morphology select for a conserved metagenome along with increased fermentation of fiber-derived products such as acetate and butyrate compared to other lemurs.

furthermore if a relatively high-sugar diet selects for a --dysbiosic gut microbiome then frugivorous lemurs should host more microbial taxa with more metabolic pathways similar to humans with inflammatory disease compared to folivorous lemurs.resultspropithecus coquereli consume a diet containing less starch but increased fiber and protein compared to v. variegata and l. catta table 1. adonis testing found no significant associations between overall taxonomic or functional composition and host species ptax0.371 pfxn0.243 diet ptax0.146 pfxn0.315 or life stage ptax0.483 pfxn0.442.

we present two examples to demonstrate the utility of microbial geometry using data from the current study.first to investigate the selective power of diet for shaping specific microbial metagenomic and fermentation profiles we compare dietary fiber bacterial diversity enrichment for carbohydrate metabolism pathways and fiber-derived fermentation products.

we next used lefse default settings alpha  0.05 31 to detect significantly enriched metabolic pathways associated with diet class  diet no subclass sample  sampleid across all three lifestages.accession numbersmetagenomic sequencing data has been deposited in the sequence read archive project id prjna.nuclear magnetic resonance nmr spectroscopywe next quantified fecal metabolites using nmr to check whether metagenomic profiles accurately predict microbial fermentation products.

dietary fiber adf for each representative diet was normalized on a scale from 0 to 42.5 which is the highest adf value for any single item fed in either diet tulip poplar see table 1. the number of pathways for carbohydrate metabolism associated with each feeding strategy was normalized compared to the abundance of all other metabolic pathways plotted in figure 3. having visualized our empirical data we next demonstrate the utility of microbial geometry for developing hypotheses by predicting the approximate --shape of an insectivorous lemur i.e.

a. mckenneya thomas m. o'connellb allen rodrigoac anne d. yoderad biology department duke university durham nc usaa duke molecular physiology institute duke university durham nc usab research school of biology australian national university act australiac duke lemur center duke university durham nc usadaddress correspondence to e. a. mckenney .present address e. a. mckenney department of applied ecology north carolina state university raleigh nc usapresent address thomas m. o'connell department of otolaryngology head  neck surgery indiana university school of medicine indianapolis in usapresent address allen rodrigo research school of biology australian national university act australiathis is duke lemur center publication .no potential conflict of interest was disclosed by the authors.accepted manuscriptabstractmany studies have demonstrated the effects of host diet on gut microbial membership metagenomics and fermentation individually but few have attempted to interpret the relationship among these biological phenomena with respect to host features e.g.

we used nuclear magnetic resonance based metabolic profiling of fecal samples to link metabolic pathways to fermentation products confirming that the dissimilar substrates provided in each diet select for specific microbial functions.

we use microbial geometry to compare empirical gut microbialprofiles across different feeding strategies and suggest additional utility as a tool for hypothesis-generation.keywords gut microbiome microbial ecology lemur fermentation dietary fiber next- generation sequencingintroductionanimals have evolved a suite of adaptations to accommodate diverse feeding strategies.

we bridge this gap with a comparative study of lemur gut microbial taxa metabolic pathways and fermentation products that offers insight to microbial ecology as well as primate-microbial dynamics.

our research expands on previous studies to investigate the specific mechanisms by which gut microbial communities adapt and contribute to host nutrition in lemurs.lemurs provide a basal group for exploring host-microbial dynamics across a range of phenotypes in a phylogenetically constrained group of primates and for testing whetherthe microbial trends observed in humans and model species extend to other primates.

that is we can verify whether the --rules of microbial ecology are universal and if the human gut microbiome is derived from an ancestral primate state or if perceived dysbioses and other salient features are merely artifacts of our built environment and other recent lifestyle changes 2.here we focus on varecia variegata lemur catta and propithecus coquereli which have evolved distinct gut morphologies to accommodate their respective frugivorous generalist and folivorous wild feeding strategies figure 1. captive studies in a naturalistic setting enable dietary control without other consequences of the modern human lifestyle such as reduced exposure to sunlight increased sedentary lifestyle high-fat diet and chronic stress all of which contributed to systemic inflammation and thus may impact the gm.

however diet does explain the majority of metagenomic variation detected using pcoa and unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean upgmaclustering figure 2. for example in figure 2c life stage progression from left to right along pc1 correlates with maturation of diet from nursing to weaning and explains 39.99of variation.

that is p. coquereli host higher diversity than either v. variegata or l. catta table 2 comprising more fiber-digesting taxa.interestingly while taxonomic diversity and number of metabolic pathways both increase with fiber intake figure 2 host diet and species have a similar but opposite effect on bray curtis distances table 2 figure 3. gms from leaf-eating p. coquereli exhibit significantly less variation in both taxonomic membership and functional potential than frugivorous v. variegata or l. catta.we next used linear discriminant analysis effect size lefse to detect the taxa and pathways specific to macronutrient and vitamin metabolism that underlie these significant compositional differentiations based on diet.

revealed that frugivorous and folivorous metagenomes feature metabolic networks tailored to digest the nutrients in each specific diet which we present as a --subway diagram figure 5. for example frugivorous metagenomes were enriched for --routes to metabolize starch and sucrose amino sugar and nucleotide sugar while folivorous metagenomes featured --routes to metabolize chlorophyll and secondary plant compounds including phytic acid flavones and flavonol.significant differences in fecal metabolites confirmed microbial adaptation to high non-fiber carbohydrate concentration in frugivores and to fiber- and protein-rich leaves in folivores table 4 figures 6 and 7. frugivorous gms produce significantly more propionate table 4 figure 6 while folivorous gms produced significantly higher percentages of acetate figure 6 and higher levels of glutamate table 4 figure 7f.v.

variegata gms also produce significantly higher levels of methanol ethanol and glucose table 4 and figure 7a-c. we summarize the empirically measured links between nutritional input and microbial output in table 5 and discuss the implications for each feeding strategy below.discussionwe detected differential signatures of host species and diet in gut metagenomic composition figure 2. both factors appear to incur more significant differences in taxonomic composition than functional potential figure 3. the relationship is particularly strong in folivorous lemurs whose gms comprise higher taxonomic diversity and more enriched metabolic pathways but consistently exhibit less variation than lemurs that eat fruit table 2. we infer from these results that characteristics specific to each gut environment select for different bacterial taxa with similar genes that enable them to metabolize similar dietary substrates.

