she arrived at the emergencyreceived 4 july 2017 accepted 29 september 2017author affiliations 1unidad de gestion clinica de obstetricia y ginecologia hospital universitario san cecilio granada spain 2spanish reference laboratory for meningococci national centre for microbiology instituto de salud carlos iii madrid spain 3servicio de microbiologia hospital universitario virgen de las nieves-ibsgranada granada spain 4department of microbiology university of granada-ibsgranada granada spain.correspondence jose gutierrez-fernandez keywords premature rupture of membranes molecular characterization staphylococcus aureus neisseria meningitidis haemophilus influenzae preventive antibiotic therapy.abbreviations pprom preterm premature rupture of membranes prom premature rupture of membranes.these authors contributed equally to this work.005121 a 2017 the authorsthis is an open access article under the terms of the which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.obstetrics and gynecology department due to the vaginal discharge of clear fluid hydrorrhea with no uterine con- tractions or bleeding.

the cardiotocographic record at admission showed good fetal reactivity and the absence of uterine contractions.post-admission the hospital protocol for pprom was fol- lowed administering antibiotherapy with intravenous ampicillin 2 g ampicillin then 1 g6 h for 48 h and oral azi- thromycin 1 g azithromycin in monodosis withdrawing ampicillin after the first 48 h and then administering 500 g 8 h for 5 days completing the lung maturation regimen with betamethasone.

the newborn was dis- charged at 13 days of life with a weight of 2180 g cephalic perimeter of 32 cm and length of 47 cm and no abnormal clinical findings.discussionpprom of infectious etiology is an entity with potentially severe maternal-fetal morbidity and mortality and an added risk of prematurity.

the infectious diseases and clinical microbiology clinical management unit of the university hospital complex of gran- ada spain granted permission to access and use the data.referencesacog committee on practice bulletins-obstetrics.

clinical and inflammatory markers in amniotic fluid as pre- dictors of adverse outcomes in preterm premature rupture of membranes.

lancet 2001357979-988.saccone g berghella v. antibiotic prophylaxis for term or near- term premature rupture of membranes metaanalysis of random- ized trials.

jmm case reports 20174 doi 10.1099jmmcr.0.005121week premature rupture of membranes caused by oropharyngeal microbiotaalberto hidalgo-chicharro1 raquel abad-torreblanca2 jose maria navarro-mari3 and jose gutierrez-fernandez34introductionpremature rupture of membranes prom is produced when amniotic membranes tear before labor onset and is recorded in around 8  of full-term gestations .

preterm premature rupture of membranes pprom takes place before the 37th week of gestation with an incidence of 2- 4  of pregnancies and it is associated with higher maternaland perinatal morbidity and mortality mainly related to infectious processes and prematurity .

among maternal complications which include postpartum infection prema- ture placental detachment and maternal sepsis we highlight clinical chorioamnionitis for its incidence and severity.

according to her clinical records she had not previously undergone an ultrasonography examina- tion during the pregnancy.

because of the clinical manifestation of amniorrhea there was no need to apply techniques to con- firm pprom.

the fetus weight estimated by the hadlock formula was 2045 g and the biometrics indicated 320 weeks of gestation.

thenewborn was female and weighed 1970 g with apgar scores at 1 and 5 min of 9 and 10 respectively umbilical artery ph of 7.32 and umbilical vein ph of 7.37 and she was admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit nicu.

our experience of epidemiologic changes in the etiology of pprom means that a more complete diagnostic procedure must be followed with wider analytic studies adapting available diagnostic procedures to clinical needs.

80 premature rupture of membranes.

