this study was aimed at investigating the effects of ep and pep on the regulation of the intestinal microbiota imbalance caused by constipation in mice.in the present study we have found that ep and pep can reverse intestinal inflammation and recover intestinal function which is caused by constipation.

pep is the main component of ep both of them are metabolized and used by intestinal bacteria benefit both intestinal microbiota and the hosts relieve constipation symptom and reduce intestinal inflammatory infiltration.

ep and pep significantly enhanced intestinal motility function and alleviated constipa- tion associated intestinal inflammation.

these initial results demonstrate that both ep and pep can alleviate the symptoms of constipation effectively.ep and pep treatment reduce constipation associated intestinal inflammationhe staining was performed to evaluate the effect of ep and pep on the morphology and structure of intestinal tissues inflammatory in- filtrations in distal colons of constipated mice lop group were ob- served .

the gut microbiome of lop constipated group exhibited increased in bacteroidetes and proteobacteria p  0.05 a and significantly decreased in firmicutes and ac- tinobacteria p  0.05. on the contrary treatment with ep and pep groups respectively found to be enriching significantly firmicutes and actinobacteria and reduce the abundance of bacteroidetes and proteo- bacteria a.the changes of intestinal flora in relative abundance at family and genus levels showed significant differences between the no group and lop group b-d. interestingly lactobacillaceae found to be dominant species in the intestinal flora of constipated mice after 14 days of loperamide treatment compared to all experimental groups with significantly increased of the relative abundances of bifidobacteria and enterobacteriaceae.

this initial data suggested that ep and pep enhanced defecation intervention and intestinal motility function.inflammatory infiltration significantly observed in the distal colonof constipation mice which declined dramatically with ep or pep treatment as seen in  this result suggests treatment with ep and pep decreased the inflammation of the distal colon in constipated micemodel and reduced intestinal infiltration.

the increase of prevotellaceae abundance in treated animals could be could be either the result of high-fiber diet in ep and pep or may be due to constipation relieve.in summary our results suggested that ep and pep could enhancedefecation interventions caused by constipation ameliorated intestinal inflammation with general improvement of intestinal microbiota.

enteromorpha and polysaccharides from enteromorpha ameliorate loperamide-induced constipation in micexinxiu ren lei liu yaser gamallat bingqiang zhang yi xina department of biotechnology dalian medical university dalian chinab department of urology first affiliated hospital of dalian medical university dalian chinac key laboratory of cell transplantation ministry of health qingdao chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywordsenteromorpha eploperamide induced constipation polysaccharides from enteromorpha pep intestinal microbiotaa b s t r a c t slow-transit constipationstcis a disease characterized by functional gastrointestinal disorder.

genomic stool dna miseq sequencing analysis of microbiota community structures and distribution revealed that intestinal micro- ecological changes caused by constipation recovered after both ep and pep treatment.

our results indicate that ep and pep are potent natural products which could be suggested in constipation therapy strategies.introductionchronic constipation is a common health problem characterized by a hardness of stool with difficulty in defecation and associated with the irregular intestinal water absorption function .

therefore finding out the etiology of stc and developing suitable drugs would profoundly benefit the constipation patients.studies have proved that the stability of intestinal microbiota is correlated with host life activities disordered microbiota can lead to multiple diseases.

accumulating evidence suggests that the alteration of intestinal microbiota is involved in the pathogenesis of stc .

however the effect of ep and pep on intestinal microbiota regulation functions remains unknown.

moreover both ep and pep can relieve the intestinal microecological disorders under constipation situation.

observed and captured under a microscope leica germany.immunohistochemical analysisvasoactive intestinal peptide receptor 1 vipr1 and serotonin re- ceptor 4 5-ht4 expression levels were analyzed using im- munohistochemistry.

