no significant interaction was found between ma- ternal diet and time for energy intake during either gestation or lactation figure 1e f. obese dams had higher energy intake compared to lean dams only during gestation main effect of diet p  0.001. there was a significant main effect of time on en- ergy intake during both gestation and lactation p  0.05 where dams consumed more energy during the second week of gesta- tion compared to the first p  0.01 and energy intake signifi- cantly increased in both groups as lactation progressed p  0.01. finally while there were no significant differences in offspring body weight from lean versus obese dams the percent body fat of offspring from obese dams was nearly 40 higher than off- spring of lean dams at weaning figure 2a b.3.3.

obese n  6 lean n  11.maternal obesity does not affect glucose and insulin levels but lactation reduces homa-irpre-pregnancy obese dams had higher blood glucose levels over- all during the ogtt main effect of diet p  0.05 but no dif- ferences were found in pre-pregnancy plasma insulin or glucose and insulin area under the curve auc between groups sup- porting information figure 1. there were no differences in gly- caemia or insulinaemia during gestation or lactation figure 3a- h. however there was a main effect of time on homa-ir levels p  0.05 where homa-ir decreased in both groups from ges- tation lean 1.50.2 obese 1.80.6 to lactation lean 0.9 0.1 obese 0.90.3. no diet or interaction effects were seen for homa-ir.to assess the overall structure of the metabolomics data and to determine whether the overall metabolic profiles of the dams at each time point would cluster naturally unsupervised pca was performed as pca identifies systematic trends in the dataset.17 in lean dams the samples clearly clustered within their respec- tive timepoints figure 4a-c. in contrast samples from the obese dams demonstrated overlap between their timepoints as indicated by overlap of samples along the first principal compo- nent figure 4d-f. this overlap was particularly apparent across pre-pregnancy and gestation metabolic profiles figure 4d.pairwise opls-da modeling was then performed to assess the quality and ability of the data to accurately model the potential metabolic differences between the timepoints.

gestation glucose obese n  6 lean n  11. gestation insulin obese n  6 lean n  10. lactation obese n  6 lean n  11.figure 4. principal component analysis pca scores plots of serum metabolites between pre-pregnancy and gestation gestation and lactation and pre-pregnancy and lactation.

associated with the transition from gesta- tion to lactation in both groups were decreases in the branchedfigure 5. metabolite loadings p and correlation values pcorr following multilevel orthogonal partial least-squares discriminant analysis opls-da of serum metabolites between pre-pregnancy and gestation gestation and lactation and pre-pregnancy and lactation.

h. j. vogeldepartment of biological sciences bio-nmr centeruniversity of calgary calgary ab canadapregnancy and lactation are associated with a host of physi- ological changes in the mother primarily aimed at supporting the offspring before and after birth7 that involve a reshaping of the maternal metabolic environment.8 however the systemic metabolic impact of pregnancy and lactation are not entirely un- derstood.

significance was set at p  0.05.resultsobese dams are heavier have higher energy intake during gestation and both obese dams and their offspring have higher percent body fat compared to lean damsinitial body weights prior to obesity induction showed no dif- ferences between groups lean 300.8 - 3.9 g obese 303.7- 3.0 g. following the diet-induced obesity induction period obese females were heavier than lean females lean 378 - 7 g obese 429 - 7 g p  0.001. obese dams were heav-ier throughout gestation main effect of diet p  0.01 al- though there was no significant interaction between time and diet consistent with similar gestational weight gain between the two groups figure 1a c. there was a significant inter- action between diet and time for maternal body weight dur- ing lactation p  0.001 where obese dams remained heavier than lean dams throughout lactation despite greater weight loss by weaning figure 1b c. there was no difference in body weight change from pre-pregnancy to weaning figure 1c.

furthermore lactation in obese dams was more dis- tinct from gestation than pre-pregnancy profiles were although this model was also slightly weaker than that of lean dams.figure 3. blood glucose and plasma insulin levels and area under the curves auc of pregnant and lactating lean and high fatsucrose diet-induced obese dams during the oral glucose tolerance tests performed on gestation day 14 and lactation day 19. values are mean - sem.

obese n  6 lean n  10.table 1. pairwise opls-da model parameters and cv-anova p-values.data structure.14 therefore to more accurately identify which metabolites were consistently contributing to the separation ofdiet pre-pregnancy-gestation gestation-lactation pre-pregnancy-lactation lean r2y 0.885 q2y 0.806 r2y 0.900 q2y 0.781 r2y 0.965 q2y 0.877p  8.8 x 10-7p  2.5 x 10-6p  1.1 x 10-6obese r2y 0.692 q2y 0.521 r2y 0.866 q2y 0.714 r2y 0.960 q2y 0.747 p  0.036p  0.004p  0.03notably very high r2y and q2y values were achieved when com- paring lactation profiles to the other timepoints in particular pre- pregnancy in both lean and obese dams indicating that lactation itself is a distinct metabolic state.however a limitation of traditional opls-da analysis is that when used in the context of paired data it ignores the pairedthe metabolic profiles within each animal across time multivari- ate paired data analysis was performed using multilevel opls- da which takes the paired data structure into account support- ing information figure 2. the models corresponding to each pairwise analysis were then compared for similarities and differ- ences between the lean and obese dams figure 5. metabolites that contributed most to the separation of the timepoints were identified based on a combination of their vip and pcorr values.

notably all shared metabolites were altered in the same direction.both pregnancy and lactation are associated with changes in gut microbial compositionto further illustrate the impact of obesity on metabolic alter- ations with pregnancy and lactation gut microbiota profiles of major bacterial groups that are important in obesity were eval- uated.

finally differences in ser-ine threonine and glycine metabolism in obese dams is notable as alterations in this metabolic pathway has been identified as discriminatory between pregnancies with or without gestational diabetes.31the increase in the urea cycle metabolites specifically in lac- tating dams could indicate altered protein turnover during lac- tation compared to pregnancy which is consistent with a study demonstrating increased circulating urea and citrulline in lactat- ing mice as a result of increased protein catabolism.32 notably both ornithine and citrulline were stronger contributors to the lactation profiles in lean compared to obese dams suggesting a greater extent of protein catabolism in lean dams perhaps due to lower adipose tissue stores.the transition to lactation was also associated with decreases in circulating levels of all three bcaa.

as in the placenta bcaa catabolism in mammary glands is carried out by bcaa transaminase which uses 2-oxoglutarate to form their re- spective a-ketoacids and glutamate.33 the a-ketoacids once in the milk may be used as intestinal cell energy substrates by the neonate.due to the association of breastfeeding with favorable alter- ations in metabolism the lactation period is posited to 'reset' pregnancy-associated changes in maternal metabolism includ- ing increased adiposity and insulin resistance.40 however our metabolomics data clearly show that lactation represents a dis- tinct metabolic state compared to pre-pregnancy.

finally lactation did not induce a return in abun- dance of all microbial groups to that of pre-pregnancy levels fur- ther underscoring that lactation itself is a metabolically unique period in maternal metabolism.although the present study contributes insight into differ- ences between diet-induced maternally obese and lean dams we are not able to distinguish between the effects of maternal obesity itself or the high fatsucrose diet.

in spite of these limitations the present study nonethe- less highlights the importance of optimal maternal nutrition dur- ing pregnancy and lactation on maternal metabolism the gut mi- crobiota and early markers of obesity in offspring.to conclude pregnancy and lactation represent unique peri-ods where improving metabolism in one generation could de- crease obesity risk in the next thus helping alleviate the global burden of obesity.

maternal obesitypotential impact of metabolic and gut microbial response to pregnancy and lactation in lean and diet-induced obese rats on offspring obesity riskheather a. paul kelsey h. collins marc r. bomhof hans j. vogel and raylene a. reimerintroductionoverweight and obesity rates in women continue to increase worldwide1 and obesity is now the most common medicalh.

moreover many studies aimed at elucidating these mech- anisms often focus on the effects in offspring rather than on the mothers themselves.10 finally both obesity-induced and diet- induced changes in maternal gut microbiota during pregnancy and lactation play a role in the establishment of offspring gut mi- crobiota which can ultimately impact offspring development11 obesity risk12 and overall health.

