because purine metabolites can function as important im- mune signaling molecules   these data suggest that the inf metabolite signature indicated a local induction of host immunity.pls-da of the peritoneal samples from all four treatment groups onto the union of metabolites from the abx and inf signa- tures revealed that antibiotic treatment and infection formed two orthogonal di- mensions describing the infection micro- environment with 88 calibration accu- racy and 83 cross-validation accuracy c in close agreement with the unsupervised pca of these samples  c. this was supported by the obser- vation that udp g6p and ru5p under com- bination treatment trended similarly to antibiotic treatment and gmp and adn trended similarly to infection b. collectively these results suggest that most of the local changes in host metabo-lites associated with antibiotic treatment of infection could be explained by the independent actions of either antibiotic treat- ment or infection.interestingly not all of the metabolite changes in the comb samples could be explained by the independent actions offigure 2. antibiotic treatment elicits microbiome-independent changes in host metabolitesexperimental design for germ-free gf metabolomic profiling.

compared with untreated cells macro- phages pre-treated with 20 mgml cipro for 3 hr abx engulfed fewer e. coli cells c and s5a and possessed more sur- viving cells following lysis of the macrophages d and s5b indicating a significant decrease in the killing of engulfed cells e. in contrast we found that 10 mm amp signifi- cantly increased pathogen engulfment c and s5c and decreased pathogen survival d and s5d indicating that metabolites induced at the site of infection by an- tibiotics may feed forward and potentiate immune function.

comb samples also scored higher than the abx samples on the antibiotic axis lv 2 suggesting that infection may potentiate the metabolic changes elicited by anti- biotic treatment c. to test this we performed elasticnet regularization and used pls-da to identify a comb-specific metabolite signature discriminating the comb samples from the union of ctl abx and inf samples.

for instance amp was significantly en- riched in the comb samples despite being depleted in the inf samples and unchanged in the abx samples b. we subjected additional mice to both infection and antibiotic treat- ment and sampled the peritoneum at earlier time points.

together these results demonstrate that host metabolites induced by antibiotics during treatment of infection can feed back and affect antibiotic efficacy.direct actions of antibiotic treatment on immune cells inhibit phagocytic killingbactericidal antibiotics can impair mitochondrial function in epithelial cells and inhibit their respiratory activity  .

while antibiotics nor- mally act in concert with host immune cells to remove pathogensfigure 5. direct actions of antibiotic treatment on immune cells inhibit phagocytic killingchanges in macrophage oxygen consumption rate in control ctl and cells pre-treated for 3 hr with cipro following electron transport chain uncoupling by 2 mm oligomycin 1 mm fccp carbonyl cyanide-4-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone and 0.5 mm rotenone  antimycin a.changes in respiratory capacity following cipro pre-treatment.pathogen engulfment by control ctl or macrophages treated with 20 mgml cipro abx 10 mm amp amp or their combination abx  amp.pathogen survival in ctl abx amp or abx  amp macrophages.phagocytic killing by ctl abx amp or abx  amp macrophages.data are presented as mean - sem from n r 3 independent biological replicates.

interest- ingly several studies demonstrate that polyamines can protect pathogens against antibiotic treatment  byb metabolite quantificationb multivariate analysisb metabolite set enrichment analysisb statistical analysissupplemental informationsupplemental information includes five figures and six tables and can be found with this article online at .figure 6. metabolic effects of antibiotic treatment on host cells inhibit drug efficacy and impair immune functionduring infection antibiotics work in concert with immune cells to clear mi- crobial pathogens black lines.

in contrast infection only exerted local changes eliciting significant changes in metabolites in the peritoneum c but not in the plasma figure s1a or lung figure s1b.to better understand the antibiotic-induced changes in the infection microenvironment we performed multivariate analysis on the peritoneal samples to identify a metabolite signature corresponding to antibiotic treatment.

we subjected a cohort of 8-week-old c57bl6j mice to a set of perturbations including antibiotic treatment with 100 mgml ciprofloxacin cipro delivered in the drinking water abx intraperitoneal infection by escherichia coli atcc25922 inf or their combination comb a. after 24 hr mice were euthanized and samples from three tissues were collected for metabolomic profiling 1 the peritoneum to char- acterize changes in metabolites local to infection 2 plasma to characterize global changes in circulating metabolites and 3 the lung to characterize changes in metabolites distal to infec- tion.

pca on the plasma samples similarly revealed that 83 of the variance in plasma metabo- lites could be explained by direct effects on host cells instead of effects on the microbiome d. in contrast the lung samples did not separate as cleanly along principal compo- nents corresponding to a microbiome and antibiotic treatment figure s3.

peritoneal infection increased the abundance of guanine monophosphate gmp and depleted adenosine adn and amp amp.pca projection of peritoneal samples from all four treatment groups using metabolites from the abx and inf metabolite signatures.pls-da of peritoneal samples from comb mice.

peritoneal lavage plasma and lung lavage samples were collected 24 hr after infection.hierarchically clustered heatmap of metabolite concentrations from ctl abx inf and comb mice.pca projection of metabolomic profiles from peritoneal samples of all four treatment groups.pls-da of peritoneal samples from abx mice.

characterize antibiotic-induced changes to the metabolic environment during infection and find that direct actions of antibiotics on host cells induce metabolites that impair drug efficacy and enhance phagocytic activity.yang et al.

antibiotic treatment elicits microbiome-independent changes in local metabo- lites but not those distal to the infection site by acting directly on host cells.

additionally we demonstrate that metabolites altered by antibiotic treat- ment during infection may inhibit antibiotic efficacy and poten- tiate the phagocytic activity of immune cells.

