articlecoagulase-negative staphylococcal strain prevents staphylococcus aureus colonization and skin infection by blocking quorum sensinggraphical abstracthighlightsd staphylococcus caprae autoinducer aip inhibits agrquorum sensing in s. aureusd mass spectrometry identified the s. caprae aip as an eight- residue thiolactone peptided s. caprae aip attenuates mrsa-induced necrosis and burden in a skin infection modeld s. caprae directly competes with mrsa during skin colonization and infectionauthorsalexandra e. paharik corey p. parlet nadjali chung ... michael j. van dyke nadja b. cech alexander r. horswillcorrespondencein briefpaharik parlet et al.

back- ground expression and xylose induction of this engineered strain conferred inhibitory activity against an s. aureus agr type i re- porter strain while induction of an empty vector control strain had no activity c indicating that the s. caprae agrbd genes are sufficient for production of the quorum-sensing inhibitor.identification of the s. caprae aip structure to identify the structure of the s. caprae aip mass spectrometry analysis of s. caprae spent media was performed.

caprae aip inhibits the progression of a murine mrsa skin infection to investigate the potential of the s. caprae aip as an anti-mrsa intervention we evaluated its capacity to influence the infectious outcome of cutaneous challenge with the usa300 ca-mrsa strain lac agr type i hereafter called mrsa figure 2. initial characterization and identification of the s. caprae quorum-sensing inhibitorthe s. caprae spent media was treated with 650c heat proteinase k 1 mgml final egta 5 mm final or naoh to a ph of 11 then neutralized.

predicted the s. caprae aip could inhibit the agrcfigure 5. s. caprae aip-mediated quorum quenching in vivo corresponds with pro- tection against mrsa-induced dermatopa- thologyrepresentative images of in vivo biolumines- cence induction 2.5 hr after challenge with mrsa agr p3-lux - 10 mg s. caprae aip.time course comparison of in vivo biolumi- nescence after intradermal challenge with agr p3- lux - 10 mg of s. caprae aip n  5. error bars represent sem.

despite effec- tively doubling the incoming bacterial load when compared to single-culture infections the presence of s. caprae affordedfigure 4. s. caprae aip attenuates mrsa pathogenesisdermonecrotic lesion size following infection with mrsa wild-type - s. caprae aip n  4-8. error bars represent sem.

caprae bacteria d.as a control analogous challenge experiments were per- formed with a closely related cons species staphylococcus capitis which did not inhibit s. aureus agr function during in vitro testing b. compared to s. caprae the attenua- tion of mrsa virulence and agr activity with s. capitis organisms was minimal compared to vehicle control a-7d indi- cating these properties are specific to s. caprae and cannot be broadly generalized throughout the genus.

knowing that s. caprae is present transiently on human skin   it seems likely that s. caprae and s. aureus interact within the cutaneous environment and the production of the inhibitory aip could give s. caprae a competitive advantage.

it is becoming increasinglyfigure 7. s. caprae reduces early mrsa burden following intradermal inoculationrepresentative images of in vivo biolumines- cence induction 3.5 hr after challenge with mrsa agr p3-lux - 10 mg s. caprae aip or equal cfus of the cons s. caprae or s. capitis.representative images show dermonecrosis 5 days after the bacterial challenge.time course comparison of in vivo biolumi- nescence after intradermal challenge within the indicated conditions n  5-10. error bars repre- sent sem.

for s. aureus a ubiquitous human pathogen with a remarkable propensity for acquiring drug resistance there are mounting efforts to develop both of these alternative approaches into effective treatments for limiting infections.starmethodsdetailed methods are provided in the online version of this paper and include the followingd d d b bacterial strains and plasmidsb miced b agr reporter assayb s. caprae supernatant treatmentsb hemolysis assayb s. caprae agrd sequencing b pagrbd induction experiment b flow cytometryb lc-ms identification of s. caprae aip structureb mouse dermonecrosis model and colonization modelsb inoculum preparation for assessing quorum quench- ing in vivod d supplemental informationsupplemental information includes five figures and two tables and can be found with this article online at .author contributionsa.e.p.

demonstrate that the human commensal staphylococcus caprae competes with staphylococcus aureus by inhibiting quorum sensing.through signal interference s. caprae reduces methicillin-resistant s. aureus burden in both skin colonization and infection highlighting the benefits of healthy skin flora and suggesting a new avenue for probiotic therapy.paharik et al.

a biochemical assess- ment of the inhibitory activity suggested that the s. caprae autoinducing peptide aip was respon- sible and mass spectrometric analysis identified the s. caprae aip as an eight-residue peptide ystcsyyf.

little is known about the s. caprae agr system although predictions based on agrd gene sequence suggest that it has two agr types that result in different aip structures .in this work we characterized the s. caprae inhibitory activity and further investigated its impact on s. aureus colonization and pathogenesis.

s. caprae successfully competed against s. aureus in colonization and infection models suggesting s. caprae may have beneficial protective properties as a human commensal.resultscommensal staphylococcal strains secrete inhibitors of s. aureus quorum sensingto test for crosstalk between staphylococcal strains we selected a small group of cons clinical isolates and assessed whether their spent media impacted s. aureus quorum-sensing function.

previously noted that s. caprae spent media had inhibitory activity against s. aureus agr types i and ii  although the s. caprae aip structure was not identified.

caprae spent media characterization suggests the inhibitory activity is aip we performed biochemical tests on the s. caprae spent media to gain insight into the nature of the inhibitor.

