At the tumor initiation stage mice pretreated with PMFs can benefit from their protective effect on BPDE-DNA adduct generation through modulating XMEs expressed for decreas- ing reactive metabolites such as BaP-quinones and increas- ing detoxification metabolites in faeces.29 The feces sample for analyzed BaP metabolites were collected during mice whowere treated with BaP for 6 days and those results explained the effects of PMFs on BaP metabolism.

Differences with p values0.05 were considered statistically significant.ResultsOrally administrated PMFs prevent BaPDSS-induced colorectal tumorigenesisTo examine the preventive effect of PMFs in dietary intake on BaP in combination with DSS-induced colorectal tumori- genesis we referred to a previous report published by Sonoda et al.

The authors also gratefully acknowledge Dr. Chien- Yuen Pan Department of life science National Taiwna uni- versity for providing calmodulin antibody.ReferencesTorre LA Bray F Siegel RL et al.

Sections were then incubated with a biotin- conjugated horseradish peroxidase secondary antibody 330- diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride was used as the sub- strate or fluorescent-dye-conjugated secondary antibody.BPDE-DNA adduct determination by ELISA kitGenomic DNA was isolated from colonic mucosa as described previously.25 The extracted genomic DNA was used for deter- mining the concentration of BPDE-DNA adducts through use of a BPDE-DNA adduct kit Cell Biolabs San Diego CA USA according to the manufacturer's instruction.Detection of BaP metabolites from feces by UPLCMSMS Feces samples of the mice were collected during their initial oral dose of BaP to 6 days.

Addi- tionally recent evidence demonstrated that gut microbiota is implicated in variety of chronic diseases including diabetes bowel diseases and CRC.1920 Accumulating reports suggest that the composition of gut microbiota is closely correlated with colorectal tumorigenesis which includes the initiation and promotionprogression stages.21 For instance Baxter et al.

Color figure can be viewed at Park et al.

and Galluzzi et al.

A recent study by Kim et al.

Interest- ingly we discovered that BaPDSS did not induce the expression and accumulation of b-catenin which is highly expressed in most CRC models.25 Similar to the results observed in this study Zuo et al.

CA Cancer J Clin 2015 6587- 108.Hakura A Tsutsui Y Sonoda J et al.

