taken together these data suggest that comparing antibiotic susceptibilities in gut-isolated and type strain is not necessarily a reliable comparison and that the differences in the antibiotic resistance be- tween gut-isolated strains and type strains cannot be used as a reliable indication of antibacterial activity in the food plant.we confirmed the extracts of several of the plant spe- cies used have antibiotic activity but that some plants such as cabbage lack obvious antibacterial activity.

surprisingly the strains were equally antibiotic- susceptible making it difficult to hypothesise what caused increased resistance to the plant extract.even though three out of five type strains tested were more resistant to the plant extract than their corre- sponding gut strain the ragwort extract exhibited a high level of antibiotic activity and the extract was investi- gated further.

however our plant extract process- ing methodology focused on and selected for hydrophilic compounds as hydrophobic oily substances interfered with preliminary hplc fractionations.the cabbage extract was the only plant extract tested that had no antibiotic activity when tested against the bacteria from the diamondback moth larvae guts and corresponding type strains.

the st. epidermidis insect strain was more resistant to lavender flower extract than the type strain and the m. foliorum type strain was more resistant to lavender leaf extract than the insect-isolated strain.generally only a low level of antibacterial activity was detected in lavender and the flower extract tended to be more active than the leaf extract.

vietna- mensis type strains were fully resistant to the c. roseus extract while the gut-isolated strains were susceptible.all three type strains that were unusually resistant to the plant extract also showed unexpected resistance to anti- biotics table the madagascar periwinkle root extract was purified and fractionated.

bacteria first cultured in hospital settings are likely to have been exposed to anti- biotics and to have elevated levels of antibiotic resistance or tolerance in some cases a type strain was moreresistant than the gut-isolated strain to one antibiotic and less resistant to another which can be explained by the fitness cost of maintaining multiple resistance genes mutations resulting in antibiotic resistance are commonly associated with a reduction in growth rate although that is not always the case .susceptibility of bacterial strains to plant extracts medicinal and toxic plants were chosen for assessment of antibacterial activity in this study based on anecdotal evidence and where available scientific literature.

the st. epidermidis gut-isolated strain was more resistant to ampicillin and less resistant to kanamycin than the type strain and the st. warneri gut-isolated strain was moretable 3 the susceptibility of the bacteria isolated from insect guts and corresponding type strains to the plant extractsinsect speciesfood plantbacterial specieszone of inhibition mmcrude leafcrude flowercrude roothplc fractionthe values were obtained in a disc diffusion assay the discs carried 10 mg dried extract the assay was repeated three timesresistant to ciprofloxacin than the type strain.

multivorum was more susceptible to tetra- cycline than the type strain perhaps unsurprisingly as the type strain is a clinical isolate.we assessed the extract from eucalyptus leaves for its ability to inhibit the growth of the three bacterial species isolated from the gut of individual number 1 table no differences in plant extract susceptibility were ob- served for ba.

the susceptibility of the bacterial strains to the plant extracts can be used as a guide for identifying plant extract frac- tions with antibiotic activity.

isolation of bioactives from complex natural product extracts in quantities sufficient for structure elucidation however remains a challenging task.antibacterial activity of the plant extractswe have identified antibacterial activity in all plant extracts investigated apart from the cabbage extract.

the antibiotic susceptibility of the gut-isolated strains and the type strains was assessed in a broth microdilution assay green indicates gut strain less susceptible than type strain red indicates gut strain more susceptible than type strainisolated strain and more resistant to chloramphenicol kanamycin and rifampicin.

the two remaining bacterial strains were human-associated both pa. agglomerans and st. epide- midis can be found on human skin.in comparison with other insect gut microbiomes there were few differences in antibiotic susceptibilities between the strains isolated from the rosemary beetles and the matching type strains table there were no differences in antibiotic susceptibility to ampicillin chloramphenicol ciprofloxacin kanamycin rifampicin or oxytetracycline between the type strains and insect- isolated strains of m. foliorum m. gubbeenense pa. agglomerans and rho.

both the antibiotic susceptibility and plant extract susceptibility of the gut bacteria were compared between strains isolated from the insect guts and corre- sponding type strains obtained from culture collections.

to do this we compared antibiotic-susceptibility profiles and susceptibility to plant extracts of gut- isolated bacterial strains and the corresponding type strains and used any differences in susceptibilities to identify plant extracts with the most promising antibiotic activity.resultsgiant lime green stick insect feeding on eucalyptusthree stick insects were analysed in this study and were treated separately in part to examine the diversity of species from different individuals.

because of the toxicity of pyrrolizidine alka- loids to generalist herbivores the compounds are thought to be a feeding deterrent however it was also suggested they protect the plants against microbial at- tack in our experiments ragwort extract was one of the most antibacterial plant extracts tested against insect gut bacteria but the pyrrolizidine alkaloids were not de- tected in the plant extract.

