abbreviations ca cholic acid cdca chenodeoxycholic acid dca deoxycholic acid hca hyocholic acid hdca hyodeoxycholic acid lca lithocholic acid mca muricholic acid mdca murideoxycholic acid udca ursodeoxycholic acid.tgr5 in l-cells glp-1 fxr in l-cells glp-1tgr5 in batinsulin sensitivity energy expendituretgca tgcdcafxr in livernafldnashfxr in watlipid storagetabmcain micemicrobial modifications of bile acids in the gutlcadcaomcamdcatgr5 in muscle insulin sensitivity energy expenditureudcahdcahcatgr5 in a-cells and fxr in b-cells of pancreasglp-1 and insulin secretionfigure 2. microbial modification of bile acids and its metabolic effect through fxr and tgr5.

abbreviations ca cholic acid cdca chenodeoxycholic acid dca dca deoxycholic acid fxr farnesoid x receptor glp1 glucagon-like peptide 1 lca lca lithocholic acid mca mca muricholic acid nafld non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nash non-alcoholic steatohepatitis tgr5 takeda g-protein-coupled receptor 5 wat white adipose tissue.bile acids gut microbiota and bariatric surgerybariatric surgery has been shown to be the most effective long-term treatment for morbid obesity.

ibat inhibitors decrease the bile acid pool by increasing fecal bile acid excretion which cannot fully be compensated by enhanced bile acid synthesis .

in this review we discuss bile acid signaling and the interplay with the gut microbiota in the pathophysiology of obesity type 2 diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and the role of surgical and pharmacological interventions on bile acid profiles and metabolism.introductionobesity and metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld see  are increasing dramatically and intense efforts have been made to understand the mechanisms behind these diseases.

one approach to treat and prevent obesity and its related diseases could be to target bile acid signaling by natural semisynthetic or synthetic drugs that bind to bile acid receptors .

most of the research on bile acid signaling via fxr and tgr5 has been performed in mouse models and interpretation of such studies must be done carefully since bile acid composition differ substantially between humans and mice .

one study demon- strated increased expression of cyp7a1 in tgr5-deficient mice that was further induced after cholic acid ca feeding  while another study found a decreased bile acid pool in tgr5-deficient mice .

thus bile-acid-related metabolic changes observed in mouse models so far hardly reflect similar changes in bile acid profiles in humans most likely due to the substantial differences in murine and human bile acid composition  .the only study thus far that has demonstrated a positive effect of bile acids on energy expenditure in humans showed that cdca administered at 15 mgkg body weight for 2 days increased whole body energy expenditure and increased brown adipose tissue activity in 12 healthy women .

these findings indicate that when providing natural bile acids that are agonists for fxr the gut microbial metabolism might in turn generate ligands for tgr5 which may result in unpredictable treatment responses .of note depletion rather than enrichment of the human bile acid pool might improve glycemic control as suggested from studies using bile acid sequestrants .

it has been shown that changes in microbial community in the gut can lead to changes in bile acid profiles and fecal microbiota transplantation in mice has been used to directly address whether the gut microbiota can affect the metabolism of the host .figure 1. bile acid synthesis in the liver and bacterial modification in the intestine.

thus the murine bile acid pool has a much lower hydrophobicity than the human one which substantially affects bile acid receptor activation.

this suggestion is based on the consistent finding after rygb bariatric surgery that circulating bile acids are increased in both fasting and postprandial conditions when also elevated 12a-hydroxylatednon-12a-hydroxylated bile acid ratios are observed bilefigure 3. effect of bariatric surgery on bile acid metabolism.

total bile acid levels increases after rygb and biliopancreatic diversion while data on bile acid levels after vsg are less consistent.

to date system- atic studies on fecal bile acid composition after bariatric surgery demonstrating the formation of tgr5 activating metabolites by specific gut microbiota are still missing.of note caloric reduction per se does not affect bile acid pool size or composition in humans .

changes in the micro- biota do not only affect postprandial bile acid levels but are also responsible for reduced fat gain in transplanted gf mice supporting a causative role of gut microbiota in the beneficial metabolic effect of bariatric surgery .taken together the host-microbiota-bile acid interaction is pivotal for the metabolic success of surgical treatment.

