this topically applied probiotic provides a window into the potential uses of probiotic organisms that extend beyond historical applications in digestive health.probiotics are safemost probiotics used in the usa are generally regarded as safe gras.

similar partner- ships between clinical collaborators and academic part- ners can help accelerate the pace of research into thesafety and efficacy of probiotic supplements in a range of applications.probiotics are impermanentit is important to specify appropriate indications for each probiotic because the health status of patients will in some cases alter the pathogenic potential of consumed probiotics.

for example if a probiotic requires a particular com- pound in order to remain in the system then modulating this substrate as a prebiotic could control the probiotic's presence or absence.

in a new partnership between bayer and ginkgo bioworks engineers are hoping to use nitrogen fixation capacity of legume-associated bacteria to reduce reliance on chemi- cal fertilizers using abundant atmospheric nitrogen as a route to improving plant growth.synbiotics should have a greater effect than the prebiotic or probiotic alonethe word synbiotic implies a synergistic effect from the probiotic and prebiotic.

a probiotic and a compound that specifi- cally favours its growth i.e.

many probiotic supplements are currently marketed as synbiotics.

the largest market share for probiotics comes from companies like danone nestle and general mills which are currently investing in rd to expand their probiotic and prebiotic portfolios.

today probiotic prebiotic and synbiotic products aremarketed towards use in gynaecology urology anti-age- ing gastroenterology immunology cardiology skin care dietetics and oral care.

in general for probiotics to be marketed as pharmaceutical products the burden of proof for efficacy will be much greater than for similar formulations marketed as functional food products simi- lar to vitamins or other over-the-counter supplements.for well-studied probiotic species we have some understanding of the mechanisms by which they impact host health.

below we outline such considera- tions for the design of effective synbiotics and highlight opportunities for new economic growth in this field.design criteria for synbioticsprobiotics promote specific desired effects on the hostmany probiotic organisms currently on the market claim to support digestive health and often are used for indications such as diarrhoea or constipation.

however inferred effects may be sufficient to justify probiotic use in the absence of negative health effects.

for manufacturing purposes organisms with gras status are easier to bring to mar- ket and diminish concerns about potential health risks associated with consumption of a particular probiotic.

for this reason probiotic organisms should be transient in their hosts to avoid potential long-term negative health consequences.

to track the stability of an intro- duced probiotic over time companies could offer micro- biome-sequencing services similar to those provided by the american gut project or ubiome for users of their product in exchange for a nominal fee.

another approach is to start with a prebiotic compound that can be used by a specific probiotic but this compound is inaccessible to the endogenous community e.g.

