the commonly used word 'dysbiosis' is an admission of our lack of causal under- standing of diseases involving the microbiota.crucially the microbiota is complex the diet is com-plex the host is complex and the interactions between members of the microbiota as well as between themicrobiota and host are complex.

another reason for improving microbiota diversity is the increased protection against infections provided by a more diverse microbiota which will contribute to reducing the use of antibiotics for treating animal and human disease and thereby help reduce antibiotic resistance.a 2017 the authors.

microbial biotechnology 2018 111 145-148doi10.11111751-7915.13026editorial the microbiome as a source of new enterprises and job creationmathematical modelling of the microbiota for manipulating its membershipjan-ulrich kreftinstitute of microbiology and infection and centre for computational biology and school of biosciences the university of birmingham birmingham b15 2tt uk.this editorial is part of a series that seeks to highlight the commercial potential of microbiome research.

moreover it is important scientifically because the ultimate test of scientific ideas and understanding is whether they can be put into practice.it has long been known that germ-free animals are poorly creatures but it has taken until the explosion of research on the gut microbiota mostly driven by the next-generation sequencing revolution over the last dec- ade that we have begun to realize the profound effects that the microbes we contain have on us.

the presence of a particular strain of enter- obacter cloacae can cause obesity by stimulating chronic inflammation zhao 2013. several ruminococcaceae otus as well as fibre intake and gut microbiota diver- sity are linked to lower long-term weight gain in a cohort of twins after adjusting for calorie intake menni et al.

2014. we have to realize that to successfully treat a patient we will often need to consider the patient's microbiota.

mathematical models on their own will not suffice but without them there is little hope for a rational engineering of the microbiota and investing into new products will be a gamble.

investing into staff and developing mathematical modelling platforms should pay off for biotech companies as it should at least eliminate those product leads that have little chance of success in clinical trials.for example probiotics despite considerable research efforts over decades have not been the huge success that one would expect given that the gut microbiota is implicated in many increasingly common diseases that the right probiotics should be able to cure.

2017.moreover it is becoming more and more clear thatincreasing the diversity of the microbiota is beneficial for our health implying that consuming only a few strains of probiotics is simply not enough.

this is corroborated by the success of faecal microbiota transplants fmt which contain thousands of strains.

most studies to date take snapshots of the microbiota composition sometimes with another snap- shot at a later time but rarely time series that are immensely valuable for understanding dynamical sys- tems.

2014. another ignored aspect of the gut microbiota is its spatial organization usually destroyed when extracting dna although spatial structure has been extensively shown to have profound effects on population dynamics and ecosystems hellweger et al.

however it is only a question of time before the faecal microbiota transferred from a healthy donor contains bacteria or viruses that prove to be pathogenic in the recipient - a different environment.

2016. judging pathogenic potential however is tricky because as casadevall and pirofski 2014 have argued there is no such thing as a 'pathogen' as the outcome of the interaction depends on the environment for example on the immune response of the host which will vary according to the current phys- iological state of the host its microbiota and diet.

this could be used to eval- uate under which physiological conditions of the host- microbiota holobiont a given microbe or set of microbes could cause disease and used to recommend that aa 2017 the authors.

