as shown in  western blot results confirmed that the mice protected against tumor onset produced higher levels of the active form of caspase-7 compared to the non-protected mouse.altogether these data suggest that l. casei bl23 has an anti- proliferative and apoptotic effect in this crc model a detailed proposal of the mechanisms of action of l. casei bl23 against crc is shown in .impact of l. casei bl23 treatment on microbiota richness and diversityto determine the impact of l. casei bl23 on the gut microbiota we analyzed microbiota richness and diversity after bl23 oral treatment.

altogether our results demonstrate the high potential of l. casei bl23 for the development of new probiotic-based strategies to fight crc.keywords lactobacillus casei bl23 lactic acid bacteria probiotic azoxymethane-dextran sodium sulfate colorectal cancer immunomodulationintroductioncolorectal cancer crc is a major public health problem and is considered the third most com- mon cancer around the world with nearly 1.2 million new cases every year and a mortality rate of 40 .

however the beneficial role of l. casei bl23 in colitis-associated crc such as that induced by aom-dss remains to be assessed.thus keeping in mind the role of the gut microbiota and chronic intestinal inflammation in crc carcinogenesis we decided in this study to further investigate the impact of l. casei bl23 in a mouse model of crc induced by aom and dss.

our results show that l. casei bl23 significantly protected mice against crc development specifically l. casei bl23 treatment reduced histological scores and proliferative index values.

casei bl23 protects against tumor development in a colitis-associated crc modelto determine the potential beneficial effects of the dairy strain bl23 of l. casei on crc onset live bacteria were orally adminis- tered to mice treated with aom and dss.

in addition l. casei bl23 was also able to increase apoptosis via upregulation of caspase-9 caspase-7 and bik.given the reported anti-inflammatory properties of l. casei bl23 we also assessed the cytokine profiles of treated mice.

in particular l. casei bl23 has antiproliferative effects in the mouse allograft model of hpv-induced cancer and protects against dmh-induced crc .

as shown in  colonic il-22 a cytokine that promotes prolifera- tion of cancer cells  levels were lower p  0.057 student'st-test in l. casei bl23-treated mice compared to controls.

in particular one major risk factor for the development of crc is chronic intestinal inflammation  indeed patients suffering from inflammatory bowel diseases ibds are six times more likely to develop crc than healthy individuals .today the use of probiotics represents a promising strategy for the treatment and prevention of cancer.

to determine which cell types are affected by l. casei bl23 treatment future experiments will need to examine the correlation between each population of cells in the lamina propria of mice and il-22 downregulation.finally several reports have described disruption of the composition of the microbiota in crc  .

illumina sequencing revealed that the gut microbiota of mice treated with l. casei bl23 tended to differ in both community composition and community richness from those of pbs-treated mice.

as shown in  mice fed with l. casei bl23 were protected against tumor development no mouse in this group developed macroscopic tumors compared to 67 69 of mice that received only pbs .

in addition ki67 levels which are expressed in proliferating cells were significantly lower p  0.044 student's t-test in mice treated with l. casei bl23 than in control mice .l.

to date animal studies have revealed that germ-free mice are more predisposed to developing inflammatory-induced crc than conventional mice .

few individual species were affected by l. casei treatment with the exception of l. zeae which is actually considered a synonym ofl.

