8.845 - 2.647 compared with the other three groups nc 1.907 - 0.232 nc- bbr 0.288 - 0.109 hf-bbr 7.086 - 2.486 c and lefseanalysis demonstrated that this hfd-induced increase was signif- icant compared with the other groups p 14 0.0017 e.berberine-treated mice had an increased abundance of verruco- microbia under both ncd and hfd b. the taxonomic clad- ograms from lefse analysis revealed that this berberine-related increase in verrucomicrobia was significant in hf-bbr group mice p  0.0001 d. at genus level berberine increased the rela- tive abundance of akkermansia nc 0.051 - 0.020 nc-bbr 7.925 - 2.764 hf 0.081 - 0.072 hf-bbr 13.746 - 6.616the main genus within the phylum verrucomircobia under both ncd and hfd c. lefse analysis showed that akkermansia abundance was significantly increased in hf-bbr group mice p  0.0001 e. the abundance of the genus bacteroides was also significantly increased by berberine nc 4.060 - 1.179 nc- bbr 40.356 - 4.636 hf 9.163 - 1.851 hf-bbr 41.690 - 6.172 p  0.0001 c and e.berberine increases the number of intestinal goblet cells and restores the thickness of the mucus layerberberine significantly increased the abundance of akkermansia in hf-bbr group mice.

these results demonstrate that berberine treatment reduces hfd- induced atherosclerosis.berberine improves hypercholesterolemia and systemic inflammationhf group mice had increased hypercholesterolemia and hyper- triglyceridemia compared with nc group mice a and b. berberine treatment significantly reduced serum total cholesterol levels in hfd-fed mice a. levels of serum triglycerides in the hf-bbr group tended to be lower than in the hf group but this was not significant b. there were no obvious differences in serum levels of hdl-c among groups data not shown.tnf-a and il-1b are proinflammatory cytokines with importantroles in atherosclerosis .

serum levels of these two cytokines were significantly increased in hf mice compared with nc group mice and this increase could be reduced by berberine treatment c and d. similarly hf-bbr group mice had dramaticallyfig.

berberine-related differences were observed along pc1 which explained 51.89 of the total variation with berberine-treated mice showing similar microbial profiles irrespective of diet a. hf group mice clustered separately from nc group mice along pc2 which explained another 9.83 of the total variation in microbial composition a. the pcoa result shows that gut microbiota structure was more sensitive to berberine treatment than to dietary fat.next we determined which bacterial phenotypes contributed to these differences in gut microbial community.

the average number of goblet cells per villus in hf group mice was markedly lower than that in nc group mice and berberine treatment significantly increased the number of goblet cells under hfd d. hfd-fed mice had a significantly thinner colonic mucus layer and berberine treatmentprevented this decrease nc 21.15 - 0.57 mm hf 11.56 - 0.37 mmhf-bbr 22.60 - 0.47 mm p  0.0001 c and e.discussionberberine has anti-inflammatory and cholesterol lowering ef- fects and aids in the prevention of metabolic diseases .

hf group mice had noticeably increased body weight compared with nc group mice which could be attenuated by berberine treatment supplementary fig.

in the hf group athero- sclerotic plaques were obvious in the aortic arch thoracic and abdominal aorta regions a. hf group mice had a 6.5-fold increase in plaque area compared with the nc group b. hematoxylin and eosin staining of the aortic sinus also showed that atherosclerotic lesions were much more severe in the hf group c and d. in berberine-treated hfd-fed mice hf-bbr group however atherosclerotic lesions were markedly decreased compared with the hf group aed.

compared with hf group mice hf-bbr group mice had significantly lower ileal mrna expression of tnf-a and il-1b a and of tnf-a and il-6 in colonic tissue b.the expression of epithelial tight junction proteins reflects gut permeability.

hf group mice had significantly reduced mrna expression of zo-1 in the ileum a and occludin in the colon b compared with nc group mice.

however in hfd-fed mice berberine treatment significantly increased mrna expression of zo-1 and occludin in the ileum and colon respectively a and b. immunohistochemistry analysis also showed that berberine treatment increased the expression of the ileal tight junction pro- tein occludin and zo-1 in hfd-fed mice d e and h i. taken together these results indicate that berberine protects against in- testinal inflammation and promotes intestinal epithelial barrier integrity.matrix metalloproteinase mmp-2 and vascular cell adhesion molecule vcam-1 promote adhesion of macrophages onto vascular endothelium and plaque instability .

hfd significantly increased mmp-2 and vcam-1 expression in atherosclerotic lesions of mice compared with the ncd and this increase could be counteracted by berberine treatment f g and j k. real-time pcr analysis also demonstrated that mrna expression of vcam-1 and mmp-2 was attenuated by berberine treatment in hfd-fed mice c.the effect of berberine treatment on gut microbiotato determine the effect of berberine treatment on gut micro- biota composition we conducted illumina miseq 16s rrna amplicon sequencing which produced 1289337 valid sequences from 32 samples.

berberine treatment significantly increased the number of goblet cells pas-positive stained blue in the ileum a and colon b in hf-bbr group mice compared with hf group mice.

this may reduce the level of bacteria-derived lps and exogenous pathogenic antigens that enter the circulation which is supported by our finding that serum lps and proinflammatory cytokines were decreased in berberine-treated hfd-fed mice.beta diversity analysis demonstrated that berberine has similareffects on intestinal microbiota composition irrespective of diet with distinct changes in gut microbial structure in berberine- treated mice relative to normal-chow diet and hfd mice.

thus we evaluated whether the antiatherosclerotic effect of berberine is related to alterations in gut microbial structure and if so whether specific bacterial taxa contribute to the beneficial effects of berberine.methods apoe-- mice were fed either a normal-chow diet or a high-fat diet hfd.

berberine was administered to mice in drinking water 0.5 gl for 14 weeks.

