diverse gut compositions of people living in different regions may contribute to complexity of microbiota associated with hosts and further confirm the importance of unveiling gut microbiota diversity to uncover roles of microbiotas in host health and to discover new means of adaptation to different environments.genetic differences were revealed by genome-wide analysis or other molecular methods between tibetans and han people-.

characterization of fecal microbiota across seven chinese ethnic groups by quantitative polymerase chain reaction.plos one 9 e93631 2014.schnorr s. l. et al.

dietary modulation of gut microbiota contributes to alleviation of both genetic and simple obesity in children.ebiomedicine 2 968-984 2015.kurilshikov a. et al.

in this study fecal microbiota from 208 tibetans across six different locations were analyzed by miseq sequencing these locations included gannan gangcha tianzhu hongyuan lhasa and nagqu with altitudes above sea level rangingfrom 2800 m to 4500 m across the tibetan plateau.

meat beef and mutton yak butter milk and other dairy products are major foods for energy but minimal vegetables and fruits are consumed.gut microbiota can directly influence human health and show adaptive potential to different lifestyles.

however some studies reported absence of significant structural changes in gut microbiota of individuals from six coun- tries and effects of body mass index age or gender were not observed on gut microbiota structure.

different geographical locations lifestyles farming styles and frequencies of communication with other places may vary with gut microbiome of tibetans.in this study to determine correlations between gut microbiota community structures of tibetans and geog- raphy we analyzed feca microbiotas from 208 samples from six regions with altitudes ranging from 2800 m to 4500 m across the tibetan plateau and compared phylogenetic diversity and taxonomic relative abundance among these regions.resultsdna sequencing and filtering.

however no correlation exists between gut microbiomes and bmi data not shown.beta diversity of gut microbiota among different places in tibetan plateau.

however the proportions of the same bacteria in samples from different regions were different at the phylum level.

.methanobactericeae coriobacteriaceae prevotellaceae bacteroidales and veilonellaceae were signature microbiota in guts of participants living in environments under 3000 m. actinomycetales porphyromonadaceae and clostridiales were signature microbiota in samples from locations between 3000 and 4000 m fig.

a different locations b altitudec mbi d ages.bacteroidaceae enterobacteriaceae and verrucomicrobiae were signature microbiota in guts of obese par- ticipants fig.

therefore core intestinal microbiota in all humans may vary within a limited range.in average bacteroidetes 60.00 firmicutes 29.04 and proteobacteria 5.40 represented 90.00 of sequences identified in tibetans this result agrees with those of previous studies revealing that majority of human gut microbiota can be attributed to these phyla.

significant dif- ferences in gut microbiota were observed among different locations altitudes and ages.

comparative analysis of gut microbiota of native tibetan and han populations living at different altitudes.

to determine the different csts across all the locations hierarchical clustering into csts based on genus composition and abundance was conducted according to the methods described by digiulio et al..data availability.

