other oral vaccines arein development including those against shigella enterotoxigenic e. coli campylobacter and clostridium difficile as well as several novel rotavirus vaccine candidates including the human neonatal vaccine rv3-bb 5 and an oral bovine pentavalent vaccine 6.yet oral vaccines have an achilles' heel - their immunogenicity and efficacy is impaired in low-income countries that experience the greatest burden of enteric disease box 1. for example rotarix has a 1-year protective efficacy against severe rotavirus-associated gastroenteritis of 95 in european infants 7 but less than 50 in malawi 8. similar deficits in immunogenicity andor efficacy have been documented for live-attenuated oral cholerafigure 1. impaired immunogenicity of oral poliovirus vaccine in india.

for example gnotobiotic animalswith a humanized gut microbiota have been used to test causal relationships between microbiota composition and disease states such as kwashiorkor 159 and inflammatory bowel disease 160. this approach was recently applied to the phenomenon of oral vaccine failure by inoculating 24 newborn pigs with the fecal microbiota of a rotateq nonresponder with a high enteropathy score or a rotateq responder with a low enteropathy score both from a study in nicaragua 161. although this approach failed to induce the manifestations of enteropathy described below pigs in the latter group exhibited stronger rotavirus-specific t-cell responses in the ileum spleen and blood and a reduction in the incidence of viral shedding and diarrhea after rotavirus challenge.environmental enteric dysfunctionenvironmental enteric dysfunction eed - also referred to as 'environmental enteropathy' - is a subclinical disorder characterized by the flattening of intestinal villi nutrient malabsorption intestinal inflammation including an influx of inflammatory cells into the lamina propria and increased gut permeability 162163. these manifestations may begin to appear soon after birth during a study in india the majority of infants displayed some degree of villous blunting within the first 30 days of life 164. the precise etiology of eed is unclear however it appears to be associated with poor environmental conditions and in a murine model inadequate diet and repeated microbial exposure were sufficient to promote the features of eed 165.owing to its pervasive nature in developing countries and the changes in intestinal immune function with which it is likely associated eed has been hypothesized to play a key role in shaping geographic trends in oral vaccine performance 162166167. specific inhibitory effects might include the induction of a hostile pro-inflammatory state in the small intestine the increased production of short-chain fatty acids or other immunomodulatory molecules that are inhibitory to oral vaccines and the dampening of immune responses due to alterations in regulatory t-cell or dendritic-cell function 168.in addition to its occurrence in developing countries eed can also show seasonal variation consistent with patterns of opv immunogenicity 169. however a key difficulty faced by studies attempting to elucidate the impact of eed on oral vaccine outcome has been how best to measure and define the condition.

these may contribute to oral vaccine failure but biomarkers of enteropathy have not shown consistent associations with oral vaccine immunogenicity.malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies occur in populations where oral vaccine immunogenicity is diminished but measures of malnutrition and growth of infants do not appear to be directly associated with immunogenicity.pre-vaccination exposure to the pathogen or the size of the infectious challenge dose post vaccination may limit vaccine effectiveness in low-income countries but evidence in support of this hypothesis is limited.interventionsinsights from studies of the mechanisms responsible for poor oral vaccine immunogenicity have so far failed to yield effective interventions to improve immunogenicity or better-designed vaccines.increases in the number of doses of vaccine given have in some cases led to improvements in immunogenicity and efficacy e.g.

2018 131future science groupfigure 2. oral vaccine failure a timeline of contributing factors.eed environmental enteric dysfunction hbga histo blood group antigen hmo human milk oligosaccharide.inactivated oral cholera vaccines have found lower immunogenicity and efficacy among young children 5 years of age compared with older children 31-34.in each of these examples deficits in oral vaccine performance have been observed within the context of trials in which the potency and cold-chain requirements of the administered vaccines were carefully maintained.

however breastfeeding may also prevent enteric infections 71 promote the maturation of the infant immune system 72 and buffer vaccine viruses from gastric acid 67 which together may alleviate or indeed reverse the inhibitory effects of breast milk iga.genetic risk factorsalthough unable to account for seasonal fluctuations in oral vaccine response a role for genetic variation in shaping the immune response to oral vaccines is supported by a study of 207 twin pairs in the gambia who received multiple doses of opv 73. by comparing within-pair correlations in antibody titers between monozygotic and dizygotic twins approximately 60 of the variation in opv response was attributed to heritable factors.histo blood group antigensamong the potential genetic sources of variation in oral vaccine outcome histo blood group antigens hbgas are important candidates.

zinc iron and vitamin a. several abnormalities in immune function have been linked with malnutrition including deficits in secretory iga complement production gut barrier function and t-cell memory maintenance among others 107. in spite of these immunological deficits a consistent link between malnutrition and oral vaccine performance has not been found 108109. a recent study among infants in bangladesh documented significantly lower serotype 3 poliovirus antibody titers in conjunction with underweight weight-for-age z score 2 after at least three doses of opv 65. however other studies in india nigeria and pakistan have not observed an association between malnutrition and opv immunogenicity 110-112. similarly supplementation with vitamin a did not significantly impact opv seroconversion rates during trials in bangladesh indonesia and ghana 113-115 while the receipt of zinc supplements which are known to have a significant therapeutic effect during the treatment of acute gastroenteritis 116 had no effect on opv seroconversion during a recent placebo-controlled trial in pakistan 117.data regarding the potential impact of malnutrition on oral vaccines other than opv are limited 108. during a trial of cvd 103-hgr in bangladesh supplementation with zinc but not vitamin a significantly boosted vibriocidal antibody response 118. low levels of serum zinc have also been associated with rotavirus risk in bangladesh 119 though supplementation with zinc did not improve rotarix immunogenicity during a study in india 120. overall while it remains plausible that malnutrition and micronutrient deficiencies may contribute to the impaired performance of oral vaccines in low-income countries particularly given their geographic and seasonal patterns of occurrence we currently lack robust data to support this notion 121. it is also worth noting that enteric infections and environmental enteropathy are strongly associated with malnutrition 122123 and may in turn be worsened by its onset.

these factors may have a greater impact on oral vaccine performance than malnutrition itself although teasing apart such effects is likely to prove challenging see below.environmental exposuresenteric infectionsenteric infections have long been recognized as a major cause of morbidity and mortality among young infants and this burden is greatest in the developing countries where oral vaccines are least immunogenic 2124. enteric infections present at the time of vaccination or in the period leading up to vaccination might impede oral vaccines in several ways.

oral poliovirus vaccine.withholding breastfeeding has not significantly improved the immunogenicity of oral poliovirus rotavirus or cholera vaccines.treatment of enteropathy and supplementation with micronutrients or probiotics have not consistently resulted in improvements in oral vaccine immunogenicity.conclusionoral vaccines are among the more cost-effective health interventions but their impact is not fully realized because of diminished immunogenicity and efficacy in the populations that need them most.we remain uncertain about the mechanisms responsible for diminished immunogenicity although new studies and technologies are providing unprecedented insights.

reviewfor reprint orders please contact causes of impaired oral vaccine efficacy in developing countriesedward pk parker1 sasirekha ramani2 benjamin a lopman3 james a church4 miren iturriza-go' mara5 andrew j prendergast4  nicholas c grassly11department of infectious disease epidemiology st mary's campus imperial college london london w2 1pg uk2baylor college of medicine houston tx 77060 usa3department of epidemiology rollins school of public health emory university atlanta ga 30322 usa4centre for paediatrics blizard institute queen mary university of london london e1 2at uk5centre for global vaccine research institute of infection  global health university of liverpool liverpool l69 7be uk author for correspondence oral vaccines are less immunogenic when given to infants in low-income compared with high-income countries limiting their potential public health impact.

seroprevalence estimates at 18 and 20 months of age are interpreted here as seroconversion.opv oral poliovirus vaccine pv1 type 1 poliovirus pv2 type 2 poliovirus pv3 type 3 poliovirus.vaccines 9-11 and oral poliovirus vaccine opv figure 1 12. limited efficacy of opv has contributed to the persistence of poliovirus transmission in several countries delaying global eradication.

what then explains the discrepancies in oral vaccine outcomes between high-income and low-income settings in this review we consider the biological mechanisms that might account for the geographic variation in oral vaccine performance.

this suggests that the inhibitory effect of maternal antibodies on opv immunogenicity reflects in part a reduction in vaccine virus replication 4445 possibly mediated by the passive transfer of maternal igg across the intestinal epithelium termed transudation 40. passively acquired serum antibodies have also been linked with a reduction in the immunogenicity of oral rotavirus vaccines includingfigure 3. potential mechanisms underlying variation in oral vaccine efficacy.

finally transplacental igg in infant serum has been shown to interfere with both oral and parenteral vaccines.hbga histo blood group antigen.rotarix 36 rotateq 46 and rotavac 47. an increase in seroconversion rates by up to 25 has been observed following the administration of rotarix at 10 and 14 weeks of age as opposed to the standard schedule of 6 and 10 weeks when maternal antibodies will have had less time to decay 48. however a recent study of rotavac in north india concluded that maternal antibodies explained less than 10 of variation in post-vaccination antibody levels 49. oral cholera and typhoid vaccines are not licensed in infants and studies demonstrating inhibition by transplacental antibodies are therefore lacking.the degree to which trends in maternal antibodies contribute to the geographic age-related and seasonal patterns of opv and rotavirus vaccine performance is less certain.

in the latter study enterovirus quantity at 10 weeks of age was also negatively correlated with the immunogenicity and efficacy of rotarix administered at 10 and 17 weeks - an effect that was not observed for any other viral bacterial or eukaryotic pathogen or for sabin polioviruses 131. thus the negative repercussions of enterovirus exposure for oral vaccines may extend beyond opv.given that opv and oral rotavirus vaccines are regularly co-administered as part of routine immunization programs the potential interference between these attenuated viruses has garnered considerable interest.

opv immunogenicity was positively correlated with the abundance of actinobacteria particularly the genus bi- fidobacterium among infants in bangladesh 155. in rural ghana rotarix immunogenicity was associated with a lower abundance of bacteroidetes and a greater abundance of bacilli specifically streptococcus bovis at 6 weeks of age while infants who seroconverted exhibited an overall microbiota profile more similar to that of dutch infants compared with nonresponders 156. however no comparable discrepancies in pre-vaccination microbiota composition were observed according to rotavirus or poliovirus seroconversion status among infants in india who received rotarix and opv at 6 and 10 weeks of age 157. thus a consistent link between microbiota composition and oral vaccine performance has not yet been identified and there is limited evidence to suggest that vaccine failure is associated with overt perturbations in the microbiota or 'dysbiosis'.in addition to observational studies of microbiota composition several trials have examined whether augmenting the infant microbiota with probiotic supplements has the capacity to improve oral vaccine outcomes.

