Alves Sean M. MythenPhillip B. Hylemon Jason M. Ridlona Department of Microbiology and Immunology Virginia Commonwealth University Richmond VA USA b Department of Parasitology Institute of Biomedical Sciences University of Sao Paulo Sao Paulo Brazil c Department of Animal Sciences University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Urbana IL USAd Microbiome Metabolic Engineering Theme Carl R. Woese Institute for Genomic Biology University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Urbana IL USAA R T I C L E I N F O Keywords Bile acids Clostridium Flavoprotein7a-dehydroxylationA B S T R A C T Background The multi-step bile acid 7a-dehydroxylating pathway by which a few species of Clostridium convert host primary bile acids to toxic secondary bile acids is of great importance to gut microbiome structure and host physiology and disease.

The bile acid reaction product of the BaiE undergoes three reduc- tions at C6-C7 C4-C5 and finally the 3-oxo-group is converted to a 3a- hydroxy forming DCA a major secondary bile acid produced in the vertebrate gut.

The start codon is in italics.

The underlined portion of the reverse primer encodes the streptavidin- affinity peptide.

The cells were sub- sequently centrifuged 3220 xg 15 min 4 degC and plasmids were ex- tracted from the resulting cell pellet using the QIAprep Spin Miniprep kit Qiagen Valencia CA.

The foreign DNA inserts in the recombinant plasmids were sequenced to confirm the correctness of the gene se- quence Virginia Commonwealth University Nucleic Acid Sequencing Core Facility.Protein overexpression and purificationFor protein expression pSport-EDS08212 plasmid was extracted from the E. coli DH5a cells were transformed into E. coli BL-21 CodonPlus DE3 RIPL chemically competent cells by the heat shock method and grown overnight at 37 degC on LB agar plates supplemented with ampicillin 100 mgmL and chloramphenicol 50 mgmL.

The pre-cultures were then added to fresh LBmedium 1 L supplemented with the same antibiotics at the same concentrations and grown with vigorous aeration at 37 degC.

The cell sus- pension was subjected to four passages through an EmulsiFlex C-3 cell homogenizer Avestin Ottawa Canada and the cell lysate was clar- ified by centrifugation at 20000 x g for 30 min at 4 degC.Recombinant EDS08212 was then purified using Strep-Tactinr resin IBA GmbH Goettingen Germany as per manufacturing protocol.

The recombinant protein was eluted using an elution buffer composed of 20 mM Tris-HCl 150 mM NaCl 20 glycerol 10 mM 2- Mercaptoethanol pH 7.9 and 2.5 mM desthiobiotin.

The protein purity was assessed by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electro- phoresis SDS-PAGE and protein bands were visualized by staining with Coomassie brilliant blue G-250.

