f. nucleatum was also found after engrafting human cancer tissue into mice and mice that were treated with an antibiotic were found to have less f. nucleatum and had a reduction in cancer cell proliferation and tumour growth suggesting that antibiotics may be helpful in the treatment of fusobacteria-associated cancers.original article bullman s. et al.

msystems 2 e00046-17 2017microbiom efusobacterium persistence in colorectal cancerseveral studies have found that fusobacteria are enriched in human colorectal cancers.

to investigate their role in human colorectal cancers a recent study analysed the microbiome of patient colorectal tissue and metastatic tumours and observed that nearly identical fusobacterium strains werepresent in the primary and metastatic tumours indicating that fusobacteria may migrate with metastatic cancer cells.

they constructed ancestral mutant viruses withthese substitutions and found that a single serine-to-asparagine mutation in the viral prm protein enhanced infectivity in human and mouse neural progenitor cells increased neurovirulence and led to more severe microcephaly in mice.

using metagenomics the authors delineated strain level contributions to the lps pool and found that members of the bacteroidales which are dominant membersof the gut microbiota produce antagonistic forms of lps and thereby drive immune tolerance of the entire community.original article d'hennezel e. et al.

science 358 933-936 2017host response suppressing gut feelingsto maintain a healthy symbiotic relationship with gut bacteria the host immune system must tolerate bacterial molecules.

total lipopolysaccharide from the human gut microbiome silences toll-like receptor signaling.

analysis of fusobacterium persistence and antibiotic response in colorectal cancer.

a recent study found that current epidemic strains had become more neurovirulent compared with ancestral strains.

in a new study total lps was purified from the gut microbiota and its immunostimulatory potential was assessed.

rnain situ hybridization revealed that fusobacterium nucleatum is predominantly localized with cancer cells within metastatic legions.

