furthermore intestinal permeability as measured by fluorescein isothio cyanate fitc-dextran translocation from the gut was also increased.these results confirm that the gut symbiont c. sporogenes through the production of the tryptophan metab olite ipa modulates the intestinal barrier and systemic host immune responses.this study provides an example of how genetic engineering of the gutmicrobiota and their metabolic capac ity can influence host physiology.ursula hofernature reviews  microbiology

now charac terize a pathway in the gut symbiont clostridium sporogenes which metabolizes aromatic amino acids into compounds that accumulatein the serum and change intestinal permeability and systemic immune responses.indolepropionic acid ipa is exclusively produced by themicrobiota from the aromatic amino acid tryptophan and is present in human serum at varying levels.

sporogenes through the production of the tryptophan metabolite ipa modulates... systemic host immune responsesgut bacteria produce numerous metabolites that can circulate sys temically and affect host physiology.

as clostridium sporogenes had been implicated in the production ofthis metabolite the authors used this bacterium to identify thebiosynthetic pathway responsible for ipa synthesis.

c. sporogenes uses phenyllactate dehydratase to metab olize another aromatic amino acid phenylalanine.

the authors specu lated that ipa synthesis requires a similar dehydratase but the genomeof c. sporogenes contained no related dehydratases.

however mutationof the fldc component of pheny lactate dehydratase abolished ipa production in c. sporogenes which indicates that fldc is involved in the metabolism of aromatic amino acids in general.

sporogenes.

introduction of the fldc mutant into these miceled to undetectable serum ipa levels whereas wildtype c. sporogenes pro duced enough ipa to reach the sys temic circulation even in the context of other microbiota.

research highlights nature reviews microbiology  published online 8 dec 2017 doithe gut symbiontc.

c. botulinum is a knownipa producer but the other identified species are novel ipa producers and the authors were able to confirm this function in vitro.previously it was shown that ipa not only has local effects in the gut such as reducing intestinal permea bility but also systemic effects such as potential neuroprotection.

to confirm the importance of gut bacterial metab olites that circulate systemically the authors monocolonized germfree mice with wildtype or fldcmutantc.

both strains colonized the gut at similar levels howeverin mice colonized with the mutant strain no ipa was detectable in the serum whereas metabolites upstream of ipa in the biosynthesis pathway were increased compared with mice colonized with the wildtype strain.

similar results were obtained with mice that harboured a defined gut community that consisted of bacteria that do not produce ipa.

