microbiomeintroductionfungi are ubiquitous members of soil communities compris- ing up to 60 of soil biomass with hundreds of distinct spe- cies present in a gram of soil   and are crucial to soil health.

most notably nectriaceae which includesthe ubiquitous genus fusarium and encompasses impor- tant saprophytes and wheat pathogens  increased in relative abundance in 2016. together these findings sug- gest that glyphosate use impacts some pathogenic and sap- rophytic taxa associated with wheat but that the specific players influenced by glyphosate are likely to be contin- gent upon other factors such as soil edaphic characteristics host availability or initial population densities.table 2metrics for fungal co-occurrence networks in soil and the rhizosphere in different cropping systems and glyphosate treatmentsat a finer taxonomic scale otu level taxa belonging to gibberella fusarium and chaetomium were among those that increased consistently in relative abundance with glyph- osate application among locations in soil from no-till cropping systems whereas otus in fusarium nectriaceae and purpureocillium increased in crp soil.

although mechanical weed management inputs such as tillage are often used as a primary management practice to control weeds prior to planting direct-seed or no-till practices are increasingly employed as a means to reduce soil erosion conserve soil moisture increase soil organic matter and save on fuel costs .

glyphosate is considered to be a relatively environmentally friendly herbicide due to its low acute toxicity for mammals short environmental half-life 3-90 days or 44-60 days on average fate profileglyphosate as a cation is strongly adsorbed to soil particles and its low activity and mobility after it reaches soil  .however as a result of its widespread use since the 1970s growers and the public alike continue to express concerns about the environmental impact of glyphosate on soil and environ- mental health  .

for rhizosphere samples 1 ml of soil suspension was transferred to a 1.5-ml tube centrifuged 16000g 1 min to pellet rhizosphere soil and associated microbes h2o was removed and soil was suspended in the powersoil buffer.

in rhizospheres from plants grown in crp soil there were increases in an unidentified fungus otu172 and ascomycete otu49 and trichoderma andtreated nt soil and cladophialophora chaetothyriales and pleosporales species in glyphosate-treated nt soil fig.

3 heatmap of square root-transformed proportions of abundant fungal families in bulk soil in 2015. colored bars at the top of the graph indicate the glyphosate treatment cropping system and location of soil origin for each samplewhich had many negative associations in non-treated crp soil.

timothy paulitz 1 usda-ars wheat health genetics and quality research unit washington state university pullman wa 99164-6430 usa2 department of plant pathology washington state university pullman wa 99164-6430 usa3 department of crop and soil sciences washington state university pullman wa 99164-6420 usadiversity  soil chemistry  and physical disturbance .

thus glyphosate may be directly inhibitory to some fungi or serve as a carbon or nutrient source for other taxa   potentially altering soil fungal commu- nity composition or diversity in agricultural systems.in addition to direct effects the impacts of glyphosate on soil fungi may be mediated through their effects on host plants.

rather microbial adaptation toglyphosate may be mediated via the substantial resource in- puts to soil ecosystems through herbicide-killed plants.although many studies of glyphosate effects on microbial communities have been performed results are often inconsis- tent with research reporting positive negative or little effect of glyphosate on microbial community composition or diver- sity   - -.inconsistent results are not surprising given the strong influ- ence of location and soil characteristics on microbial commu- nities and the generally small effect of glyphosate treatments at a field scale .

additional information on soil sampling lo- cations is provided in supplemental table 1. soil was collect- ed from the top 30 cm of each field using a clean spade and transported to the greenhouse.

fungal otus from nt soil were somewhat more likely to differ in relative abundance with glyphosate treatment nt  2.9 of otus versus crp  1.7 of otus x2  3.89 p  0.049. however da otus composed only very small fractions of the total soil communities amounting to only 0.07 of normalized se- quence counts from nt and 0.09 from crp soil.a similarly small number of taxa were differentially abun- dant in the wheat rhizosphere with glyphosate treatment fig.

3-4. those taxa with the most negative interactions specific to a treatment included arrhenia cladophialophora and ophiosphaerella species in non- treate d nt soil an d humicola  fusarium  a nd chaetomiaceae species in glyphosate-treated nt soil.

4 heatmap of square root-transformed proportions of abundant fungal families in bulk and rhizosphere soil in 2016. colored bars at the top of the graph indicate the root proximity glyphosate treatment cropping system and location of soil origin for each samplenetworks.

for example module 4 in nt soil which included multiple mortierella penicillium species as well as nectriaceae and chaetomium species was dispersed in glyphosate-treated nt soil networks.

