non-tumor samples had significantly higher numbers of reads compared to tumor samples for both bacterial median q1-q3 13561 8522-18804 vs. 6294 592-11504 p  0.0001 andfungal sequences 3482 1493-6168 vs. 1806 654-3119 p  0.005. principal coordinate analysis pco clustered dendograms and bray-curtis dissimilarity index analyses showed that the tumor and non-tumor samples exhibited considerable overlap in clustering at both phylum and genus levels for bacterial and fungal biota figure 1. a total of 7 fungal and 25 bacterial phyla were identified in the collected samples.we determined the shannon diversity index measure of microbial abundance taking into account their distribution as well as richness species count without taking into account the abundance of bacterial and fungal communities in the collected samples.

while our study and resulting data are novel we acknowledge that our sample size is small though counter-balanced by the relative homogeneity of the tumor site and hpv status mainly negative.the number of bacterial sequencing reads in our study were similar to other studies conducted with oral samples 17. we found that the number of fungal sequence reads were lower than that of bacterial sequence reads which also agrees with published studies showing that the number of fungal sequences are usually lower than that of bacterial sequences with only 0.1 of detectable sequences in the total gut microbiota attributed to fungi and 99 to bacteria 18 19. detection of lower number of fungal reads in a sample has been attributed to the fact that fungal signatures are more sensitive to dna isolation method than bacterial signature 20 and limitations of the fungal sequencing databases used for identity assignments 21 22. however in spite of these limitations our analysis provides valuable insight into the potential clinical relevance of the bacteriomemycobiome in oral tongue cancer.the sample-wise variation in the tumor and non- tumor samples were similar as revealed by pco analysis.

interestingly relative abundance of three bacterial phyla tenericutes spirochaetes and bacteroidetes were significantly increased in high t-stage samples compared to low t-stage samples p 0.022 0.009 and 0.046 respectively supplementary figure 2. within the non-tumor matched normal tissues relative abundance of spirochaetes increased in high t-stage samples compared to low t-stage samples p0.018 while that of fusobacteria increased in smokers compared to non-smokers p0.02.at the genus level 22 bacterial and 7 fungal genera were significantly different in abundance in the tumor and non-tumor groups supplementary tables 1 2. among the 22 significantly different bacterial genera streptococcus was the most abundant and was significantly increased in the tumor group compared to their matched non- tumors 34 vs. 22 p 0.001. in addition levels offigure 1 principal coordinates analysis of oral tongue tumor samples and matched non-tumor oral epithelium samples at the phylum left and genus right levels for a-b bacteriome or c-d mycobiome.

however richness was significantly decreased among fungal phyla in smokers compared to non-smokers in normal non-tumor samples 4.96 - 0.82 vs. 5.08 - 0.79 p0.045.analysis of relative abundance at the phylum level revealed that 6 bacterial phyla and one fungal phylum were significantly different between non-tumor and tumor groups figure 3. among the bacterial phyla firmicutes was the most abundant and significantly increased in the tumor group compared to their matched non-tumor tissues 48 vs. 40 respectively p0.004 figure 3a.

percentages were calculated out of a denominator that does not include samples with missing data.actinomyces and rothia and three lower abundance genera corynebacterium enterococcus micrococcus were also significantly increased in the tumor group p 0.017 supplementary table 1. fungal genus wallemia was the most abundant in both tumor and non-tumor groups 1.23 and 1.24 p 0.047 supplementary table 2. while six additional fungal genera differed significantly in abundance between the two groups p 0.043 their mean abundance was less than 1. among bacterial species abundance of rothia mucilaginosa was significantly increased in tumor samples compared to non- tumor samples table 2 27 vs. 13 p 0.001.random forest rf modeling based on both bacteriome and mycobiome showed that the relative abundances of 112 bacterial and fungal genera could distinguish tumor from non-tumor tissue with an accuracy of 70 figure 4a 4b.

2010 4962-74.qin j li r raes j arumugam m burgdorf ks manichanh c nielsen t pons n levenez f yamada t mende dr li j xu j et al and metahit consortium.

intra-kingdom correlations are shown among bacterial phyla in a non-tumor or b tumor samples and among fungal phyla in c non-tumor or d tumor samples.

inter-kingdom correlations observed between bacterial and fungal phyla in e non-tumor and f tumor samples and at genus level in g non-tumor and h tumor samples.

metagenomics now allows for detection of both culturable and nonculturable microbes permitting us to describe bacterial communities.our pilot work profiling the microbiome of 42 mixed heterogenous head and neck squamous cell carcinomas hnsccs revealed that microbial variation could correlate with clinical outcomes such as nodal and tumor stage as well as gene methylation status but was limited by diversity of involved sites 9. another study with a more limited sample size used superficial bacterial sampling of 15 oral cavity cancers by means of oral swabs and found differences in taxonomic abundance between normal and tumor surfaces at the phylum level 10. however bacteria in the head and neck populate both the deep and mucosal tissues 9 11 12. with increasing evidence that a rich community of bacteria live within the oral cavity it follows that bacterial inhabitants should contribute to the tumor microenvironment.in addition to the bacteriome another major component of the human microbiome is the mycobiome.

2012 22 299-306. httpsdoi.org10.1101gr.126516.111.kostic ad gevers d pedamallu cs michaud m duke f earl am ojesina ai jung j bass aj tabernero j baselga j liu c shivdasani ra et al.

the microbiota comprise bacterial community bacteriome and fungal community mycobiome.inon the human body bacterial cells outnumber human cells 101 with the total bacteriome-to-human gene content ratio approximating 3501. the notion that bacteria can be oncogenic is demonstrated in the example of helicobacter pylori in gastric cancer 6 and more recently fusobacterium nucleatum in colorectal cancer 7 8. the discovery of h. pylori as a trigger for gastric cancer shifted the paradigm of oncogenesis to one that includes bacteria.

fungal species lichtheimia corymbifera correlated positively with 11 bacterial species and negatively with 39 bacterial species including lactobacillus spp.

microbiome profiling principal coordinate and dissimilarity index analyses showed bacterial diversity and richness and fungal richness were significantly reduced in tumor tissue tt compared to their matched non-tumor tissues ntt p0.006.

interestingly richness of both bacterial and fungal phyla was significantly increased in high t-stage tumor samples compared to low t-stage samples p0.047 supplementary figure 1. within the non-tumor matched normal tissues there was no difference in diversity indices between different t-stage age or race.

p .05 for all comparisons between non-tumor and tumor groups.table 2 abundance of bacterial species in non-tumor and oral tongue tumor tissuescorrelate with any clinical features.

