the hfd consumption increased body mass when compared to ain groups 3 weeks after initiation of experimental feeding a. although the aom treatment decreased the rate of body mass weight gain compared to the respective untreated groups the ain-aom and hfd-aom groups experienced body mass weight gain over the entire experiment a. regardless of the aom treatment the hfd group increased the percent body fat mass by 0.32-fold compared with the ain group b however the absolute lean mass weight in the hfd group was greater than in the hfd-aom ain and ain- aom groups at the end of experiment c.fig.

however if they do not have a letter in common then the difference between them is statistically significant pb.05.effects of the hfd and aom treatment on inflammatory cell infiltration inos and ki67 protein level in ileumat the end of the experiment histological examination of ileum sections showed that the areas of inflammatory cells in the hfd and hfd-aom groups were 1.64- to 1.72-fold greater than in the ain and ain-aom groups a. the level of the proinflammatory cytokine regulator inos protein in the hfd-aom group was 0.41- 0.22- and 0.25-fold greater than in the ain ain-aom hfd groups b respectively.

furthermore the concentrations of plasma tnfa il 6 and mcp-1 were at least 1-fold greater in the hfd-aom group than in the ain ain-aom and hfd groups similarly the concentration of plasma lps was 0.5-fold greater in the hfd-aom group than in the ain group.

although the ain and hfd groups did not differ the hfd-aom group had a higher bacterial diversity when compared to that of ain- aom group .

only significant pearson correlations pb.05 are shown.the combination of hfd consumption and aom treatment greatly increases colonic acacf formation but does not change liver cyp2e1 enzyme levelconsistent with the inflammatory role of tnf-a il6 mcp-1 inos and ki67 there were concomitant increases in these inflammation-related proteins and acacf formation in the hfd- aom group when compared with the ain-aom group   .

barnesiella was lower in the hfd and hfd- aom groups of the fecal scfa measured only acetic acid was lower in the hfd-aom group compared with the ain and ain-aom groups  .

the ain and hfd groups did not develop ac and acf a and b.effects of the hfd and aom treatment on hepatic p450 2e1 protein levelthe levels of hepatic cyp2e1protein the major aom bioactivation enzyme  did not differ in the ain ain-aom hfd and hfd-aom groups .fig.

pbs treatment n10group ain hfd groups did not develop acacf.effects of the hfd on acacf formationthe number of ac and acf in the hfd-aom group was 0.80- and 0.81-fold greater than in the ain-aom group respectively.

there was a significant difference pb.05 between ain-related groups vs hfd-related groups.lactobacillus bacteria increased 6.6- and 18.1-fold respectively in the hfd-aom group when compared with the hfd group .

we found that alpha diversity of the gut microbiome in the ain and hfd groups did not differ but the hfd-aom group had a higher diversity which might include pathogenic bacteria when compared to the ain-aom group.

consistent with the gut inflammatory phenotype we observed an increase in colonic ac plasma interleukin-6 tumor necrosis factor-a monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 and inducible nitric oxide synthase in the ileum of the hfd-aom group compared with the ain- aom group.

the level of cell proliferation marker ki67 protein in the hfd-aom groups was 1.12- and 0.76-fold greater than in the ain and ain-aom groups c respectively.effects of the hfd on gut microbial diversity and compositionthe otus at the species level and the shannon diversity index were used to determine the diversity of bacterial species within a treatment group.

due to aom treatment the amount of fecal acetic acid was decreased by 30 in the hfd-aom group when compared with the ain and ain-aom groups.

n10group ain hfd groups and n15group ain-aom hfd- aom groups.

at the phylum level the hfd-aom group increased the abundance of proteobacteria but decreased the abundance of actinobacteria when compared with the ain-aom group.

