 gut microbiota changes in the gut microbiota composition and the plasma ghrelin level in patients with helicobacter pylori-infected patients with eradication therapyhidetaka yanagi1 ayumi tsuda1 masashi matsushima2 shunsuke takahashi3 genki ozawa3 yasuhiro koga4 atsushi takagi1to cite yanagi h tsuda a matsushima m et al.changes in the gut microbiota composition and the plasma ghrelin level in patients with helicobacter pylori-infected patients with eradication therapy.

a recent systemic review also reported that the relation- ship between circulating ghrelin and eradication of h. pylori is more complex.recent studies have also suggested that the gut micro- biota play a fundamental role in the pathophysiology of obesity.ley et alreported that the ratio of the phylum bacteroidetes to the phylum firmicutes bf ratio in the faeces increased when weight was reduced either by a fat-restricted or carbohydrate-restricted diet in humans suggesting a critical role of the gut microbiota in the obesity.therefore in the present study we investigated the influence of antimicrobials on both the gut microbiota structure and the plasma ghrelin level as we hypothe- sised that the change in the ghrelin level after h. pylori eradication therapy was caused by elimination of h. pylori in the stomach but also by an alteration in the gut micro- biota due to antimicrobials.methods patientspatients were defined as positive for h. pylori infection if positive results were obtained on a 13c-urea breathtest h. pylori stool antigen test or culturing of biopsy specimens.

all p values were two sided and considered to be significant at p0.05.resultspatients with eradication therapya total of 20 patients who had been diagnosed with h. pylori infection and underwent eradication therapy participated in this study from april 2016 to march 2017. the mean age sd of them was 63.8 13.2 years and malefemale ratio was 1010. three patients whose id numbers were 8 16 and 18 were revealed to be in failure for eradication .change in the gut microbiota community structure after eradication therapythe bacterial diversity within individual stool samples alpha diversity was evaluated using both the chao1 index and the observed otu number.

however in the eradi- cation therapy of helicobacter pylori the first- line therapy has been widely used which consists of oral administration of clarithro- mycin amoxicillin and a proton-pump inhib- itor twice a day for 7 days.therefore it will be free from the problem of heterogeneity to use h. pylori-infected patients with erad- ication therapy as subjects in the study of the effect of antimicrobials on indigenous bacteria in human.it was reported that the body weight and body mass index significantly increased 1 year after the eradication of h. pylori when exam- ined in 579 japanese patients.ghrelin is a multifunctional hormone that facilitates fat storage and regulates body weight.as ghrelin is predominantly synthesised and secreted by the gastric mucosa the obesity associated with eradication of h. pylori has been attributed to an increase in theghrelinlevel.however somegroupshavefoundthatthe plasma ghrelin concentration decreased in most patients 12 weeks after successful h. pylori eradication therapy.

indeed faecalibacterium is known to be one of the major bacterial groups that produce butyrate in the human gut microbiota.in the present study the gut microbiota after the eradi- cation therapy showed a phenotype not of 'obesity' but of 'lean' which was represented by an increase in both the bf ratioand an abundance of f. prausnitzii.furthermore the plasma level of the active form of ghrelin was significantly lower after eradication therapy than before the therapy.

doi10.1136bmjgast-2017-000182received 9 october 2017accepted 8 november 20171department of general medicine tokai university school of medicine isehara japan2department ofgastroenterology tokai university school of medicine isehara japan3technical departmenttechnosuruga laboratory co. ltd shizuoka japan 4laboratory for infectious diseases tokai university school of medicine isehatajapancorrespondence todr yasuhiro koga abstractobjective to investigate the influence of antimicrobials on both the gut microbiota structure and the plasma ghrelin level using helicobacter pylori-infected patients who underwent eradication therapy.design twenty h. pylori-infected patients mean age 68.3 years old who underwent eradication therapy participated in the study.

furthermore both the gut microbiota composition and the plasma ghrelin level might be used as an earliest biomarker to foresee the visceral obesity or insulin resistance.why such a 'lean' phenotype was found in both the gut microbiota composition and plasma ghrelin level at 3months after the eradication therapy in the present study bears further investigation.

there was a statistically significant correlation between the rate of patients whose bf ratio increased and that of patients whose active ghrelin level decreased between s3 and s1 according to fisher's exact probability test p0.03.conclusions changes in the gut microbiota such as the bf ratio after treatment with antimicrobials might cause a change in the plasma ghrelin level as the direct and earliest target of antimicrobials would be the microbiota rather than the hormone-secreting system.introductionalthough antimicrobials have definite effects on particular pathogenic bacteria the effect of antimicrobials on the gut microbial community and metabolism has recently been explored.

a lower plasma ghrelin level at 3months after the eradication therapy was also reported in japanese patients in other studies.in contrast however a decrease in the bf ratio a phenotype of obesity was observed at 6months posteradication which is 3months later than the time-point for our assay.this suggests that an assay at 3months after the termination of therapy might be too early to accurately assess the resilience of gut micro- biota to reversely fluctuate towards a 'fat' phenotype in vulnerable patients which may have increased the ghrelin level and then the body weight later.

rarefaction curves showed no significant difference in the degree of diversity between before s1 and 3 months after s3 the eradication therapy data not shown.alteration in the gut microbiota composition after eradication therapythe number of anaerobes by the culturing method was marginally lower at s2 than at s1 but increased tofigure 1 proportion of the dominant five phyla in the faecal samples.

there- fore some event other than the eradication of h. pylori itself may have caused the decrease in the plasma ghrelin level after eradication therapy in the present study while it still needs further studies using sufficient number of h. pylori-in- fected subjects to exclude the h. pylori infection as a cause of the plasma ghrelin reduction.queipo-ortuno et al highlighted the association between the gut microbiota and appetite-regulating hormones using rat models with different nutritional conditions and levels of physical activity.

given that only a slight tran- sient decrease in the number of bacteria was observed by a culturing method just after the therapy see  the antimicrobials used in the present study might have exerted only a moderate perturbing effect on the micro- biota thereby resulting in no marked decrease in the diversity of the gut microbiota after the therapy.of note however in the bacterial composition analysis at the phylum level the bf ratio significantly increased just after the therapy and remained increased even at 3 months after the therapy.

as such the short dura- tion of follow-up after the eradication therapy may be one limitation associated with the present study.contributors hy ayt and mm recruited the h. pylori-infected patients undergoing eradication therapy and performed biochemical examinations.

it has been reported that the gut microbiota significantly influence the host energy balance by affecting the energy yield from foods and modulating diet-derived compounds that alter the host metabolic pathway.taken together we suggested that ghrelin an appetite-regulating hormone of stomach origin might be a novel factor by which the gut microbiota affect the energy balance of the host.

those authors also observed not an increase but a decrease in the bf ratio posteradication.after external perturbation such as antimicrobial treatment the ecosystem of gut microbiota exhibits no change resilience adaptation or failing resilience.the robustness of the microbiota ecosystem is considered to be a major factor determining which of those responses the microbiota exhibit.

