Glucose clearance was slower in A- mice GTT B compared to A mice and the area under the curve AUC for glucose clearance was higher in A- than A mice D. In addition A glucose levels recovered more quickly following insulin injection than A- glucose levels C. A- mice were hyperglycemic responded more slowly to insulin injection and had higher levels of several carbohydrate and lower levels of lipid and amino acids than A mice.Relationship between the gut microbiota and host metabolome in A- miceTo predict the functional pathways active in the microbial communities from the cecal contents of A versus A- mice PICRUSt analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequencing data was conducted and changes were identified by linear discriminate analysis LDA A.

Weight was not different between A and A- mice that were 6 or 7 weeks of age but by 8 weeks the A mice weighed significantly more than the A- mice B. Generalized Unifrac plot of 16S rRNA gene sequencing showed distinct clustering of the cecal microbiota from 12-week-old A and A- mice A.

The metabolites in serum and liver extracts that were different in A and A- mice were labeled and color-coded A and STable 3.A mice had significantly lower amounts of lactate and glucose in serum and liver than A- mice A and STable 3.

The A- mice weighed less than the A mice and therefore it seems likely that the mechanisms resulting in insulin sensitivity in obesity are different than the insulin sensitivity that occurs in A- mice.

A- mice are hyperglyce- mic and the data suggest that even transient vitamin A deficiency may affect the ability of the host to respond to glucose.A mice produced more butyrate than A- mice.

of n4 mice per group Pb.05.deficiency contributed to the metabolic profiles in the liver of Aversus A- mice.DiscussionA- mice had reduced numbers of bacteria from the Bacteroidetes phyla that resulted in a higher FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio compared to A mice.

Student's t test with Mann-Whitney tests were performed and Pb.05 was the cutoff for significance.ResultsReduced weight and changes in the microbiota of A- miceMice become increasingly deficient in vitamin A over time and by 7 weeks of age the A- mice had significantly lower serum retinol compared to A mice A.

The microbiota in the cecum of A- mice showed compositional as well as functional shifts compared to the microbiota from A mice.

A mice had significantly higher butyrate levels and lower acetate levels in the cecum than A- mice A.

A mice had significantly higher hippurate and lower 4-hydroxyphenylacetate in the urine than A- mice SFig.

