the review high- lights the important role played by the microbiome in inter-individual responses to drugs and in the metabo- lism of medications to alter the efficacy or incidence of adverse events -- many relevant examples of drugs are discussed.

tight junction proteins and their regulators to produce gut pathologies -- indeed the review covers an area that has not received much attention till now.

he is a councilor of the american neurogastroenterology  motility society anms and chair of anms grants review committee.

a recent review article in gastroenterology 2015 by anne f peery et al.

the review nicely covers the mechanisms by which fodmaps are absorbed and cause symptomsthe implementation pros and cons of low fodmap diets and the limitations of low fodmap clinical trials.

in addition to the latest drugs their review covers biosimilar agents therapeutic drug monitoring and the 'treat-to-target' strategy.

review recent advances in our under- standing of tolerance to opioid-related analgesia and identify enteric glial cells as a novel target of chronic morphine induced constipation oic.

kashyap purna and eamonn quigley provide a timely and informative review covering clinically relevant aspects of the gut microbiome.

the review stresses that the microbiome is a rich source of potential novel therapeutics and pharma- biotics for gi diseases and disorders with many clinical trials in progress.

the review raises the attractive but unproven concept of 'precision nutrition' medicine designed to influence the microbiota and brain-gut axis.

esmerina til and carlo croce provide a superb in depth review and update on the role of microrna's in ibd and related cancers.

the review by covers critical issues related to standard therapy and also highlights several exciting drugs including biologi- cal agents that are being tested in clinical trials.

a better understanding of the under- lying pathogenic mechanisms of gerd and in infants or premature infants with neuro-aerodigestive pathologies is also desperately needed.novel designs and paradigms to study the placebo and nocebo responses in carefully designed clinical trials in gastroenterology is the topic of a review written by this is a complex and important topic that does not get nearly enough attention in the literature.

available online at sciencedirecteditorial overview gastrointestinal new frontiers in therapeutics for gi diseases and disorders -- from micrornas to novel pharmaceutics to low fodmap diets and microbiomefievos l christofi and adil e bharuchafievos l christofifievos l christofi is a professor and vice chair of research in the department of anesthesiology and member of the neurological institute the ohio state university columbus ohio usa.

his research interests are in enteric neurobiology and motility -- his focus is to better understand the role of gut purines in health and disease and explore the potential of 'purinergic drugs' for gi diseases and disorders such as ibd ibs and postoperative ileus.

