the former addressed metagenomic analy-sis of the gut microbiota of hundreds of individuals and the latter addressed metagenomic analysis of the various ecosys- tems that together constitute the global microbiota of several individuals.for microbiologists used to focus on a single microbe inter- acting with a given environment such as a bacterial pathogen engaging host cells and tissues it has been a formidable change in scale and a two-step challenge from one species to a com- munity in a single environment or host ca.1000 species in the human gut to a collection of genomes generating astronomic numbers of genes to comprehend ca.

this complexity has inspired a new discipline of synthetic microbial ecology dolinsek goldschmidt and johnson .the gut microbiota has been a remarkable ecosystem to es- tablish and validate the basic methods of large-scale metage- nomic analysis of complex microbial assemblies.

response to perturbations such as diet changes and antibiotic use are ways to function- ally address the dynamics of microbial ecology in the gut and to provide orientations for interventions aimed at reconstitut- ing a healthy microbiota following the occurrence of dysbiotic alterations shetty et al.

it then became clear for some microbiologists that the human genome that had just been sequenced was yet incomplete due to its lack of con- sideration of the microbial genomes associated to human be- ings relman and falkow.

the rebirth of culture in microbiology through the example of culturomics to study human gut microbiota.

a human gut microbial gene catalogue es- tablished by metagenomic sequencing.

it now bears on thousands of individual gut microbiota that have undergone metasequencing analysis.

analysis of the microbial di- versity across the human microbiome.

it was in general suc- cessfully managed although the recent irruption of meta-omics that allows to decipher the complexity of microbial assemblies and their interaction with their host and environment has dra- matically increased the challenge and thus the demand on mas- tering complex metabolic pathways analysis metasequencing strategies and bioinformatic analysis of big data.

p nat acad sci usa 1977745088-90.zhu b wang x li l. human gut microbiome the second genome of human body.

the first exhaustive analysis of the human gut suau et al.

direct analysis of genes en- coding 16s rrna from complex communities reveals many novel molecular species within the human gut.

fems microbiology reviews fux058 42 2018 113-115doi 10.1093femsrefux058advance access publication date 8 december 2017 editorialeditorial editorial for the virtual issue on microbiomedealing with variability and complexity challenges in disentangling microbial communitiesnew generation sequencing and advanced bioinformatics have provided invaluable tools to analyze complex microbial popula- tions especially in ecosystems such as skin and mucosal sur- faces of humans and animals plants soil and oceans.

this opens a largely new facet of ecology providing strong bases for modeling abreu and taga .a way to deal with complexity is synthetic microbial ecology that emerges as an approach designing assembling and ana- lyzing the dynamics of ecological circuits encompassing subsets of interacting microbial genotypes.

synthetic microbial ecology emerges as a potent approach to breakdown the global network of interactions in a complex microbiota into functional units in competition.

