as expected ck8 levels were significantly lower in cancer tissues than in para-cancer tissues figure 1d.taken together these results indicate that ck8 is downregulated in colorectal tumors and may be important for preventing cac tumorigenesis.knockdown of ck8 promotes susceptibility to aomdss-induced cacwe further examined the vulnerability of ck8 and ck8- mice to aomdss-induced cac tumorigenesis using a previously reported method 19. during aom and dss treatment ck8- mice exhibited greater mortality than wt mice figure 2a and by day 95 about 40 of the ck8- mice had died.

the blots bands were scanned for densitometry analysis with the value obtained from colon cancer patients' para-cancer tissues set as 1.while ck8 and ck8- mice treated with aom and dss each developed colonic tumors the tumor incidence was significantly greater in ck8- mice than in wt mice after the second cycle of dss treatment figure 2c and the colon length was shortened in the ck8- group figure 2d.

when we examined the histology of swiss-rolled colons stained with he ck8- colons mainly exhibited distal injuries including epithelial ulcers submucosal edemas and inflammatory infiltrates indicating that more severe injuries had occurred in the ck8- mice figure 4c.we further investigated the expression of various inflammatory cytokines and chemokines in wt and ck8- mice.

as shown in figure 5d proinflammatory cytokines such as tnfa inos ifng and il-17 and the chemokine ccl4 were significantly upregulated in ck8- colons compared to wt colons.all these data suggest that ck8 is important for dampening inflammatory responses during aomdss- induced cac tumorigenesis.ck8- mice exhibit increased colonic permeability during dss-induced colitis and aomdss-induced colorectal carcinogenesistnfa has been shown to be critical for the initiation and progression of colitis and cac carcinogenesis and blocking tnfa in mice reduced colorectal carcinogenesis with colitis following aom and dss treatment 20. since tnfa was upregulated in ck8- mice after dss treatment it was of interest to determine if blocking tnfa would reduce the colorectal carcinogenesis in ck8- mice.

we administered a specific tnfa antagonist etanercept to ck8- mice that had been treated with dss however etanercept did not reduce the incidence of tumorigenesis data not shown suggesting that tnfa is not essential for aom dss-induced colorectal carcinogenesis in ck8- mice.a previous study suggested that ck8 together with il-6 protects the epithelial barrier from direct luminal damage such as that from dss and the accompanyingfigure 2 knockdown of ck8 promotes susceptibility to aomdss-induced colitis-associated colorectal carcinoma.a ck8 mice and ck8- mice were treated with aomdss as material and methods described.

these results suggest that the greater colonic inflammation and tumor development in ck8- mice is associated with greatercolonic permeability.fecal microbiota of ck8- mice differ from those of wt mice after aomdss treatmentwe next examined whether ck8- mice predisposed to developing cac had different colonic microbiota than wt mice.

p  0.05 p  0.01.these results indicate that the gut microbiota might have contributed to the increased colitis and colitis- associated tumorigenesis in ck8- mice.tlr4 inhibitor treatment reduces the vulnerability of ck8- mice to colitis induced by dssas described above the phylum proteobacteria was significantly upregulated in crc ck8- mice.

using ck8 heterozygous knockout mice ck8- we found that ck8- mice are highly susceptible to dss-induced colitis and more prone to aomdss-induced cac than wild type wt mice.

our previous study demonstrated that ck8 wascompletely abolished in ck8-- mice while ck8- mice had about half the ck8 level of ck8 mice in all examined tissues 14. furthermore ck8- mice were phenotypically similar to wild-type wt controls with only slight crypt proliferation and partial ion transport dysfunction 10. only 3 of heterozygous mice exhibited anorectal prolapse.

as shown in figure 1b ck8 expression was significantly reduced in both ck8 and ck8- mice after aomdss treatment however by the end of the third cycle the expression of ck8 was almost undetectable in ck8- mice.given the above observations we predicted that ck8 expression might decrease during the development of colonic inflammation and colon cancers.

while tumors were mostly found in the colorectal and distal portions of the wt colon tumors were frequently observed along the whole length of the ck8- colon.we also counted ki-67-stained cells and found a larger number of positive cells in ck8- tumors than in wt tumors figure 2h suggesting that the downregulation of ck8 enhances the proliferation of tumor cells.

however the extent of apoptosis did not differ in tumorous colons from ck8- and wt mice supplementary figure 2. the mrna levels of cancer-related genes including b-catenin e-cadherin mmp2 and mmp9 were higher in ck8- mice than in wt mice figure 3.these observations suggest that the downregulation of ck8 increases the vulnerability of mice to cac tumorigenesis.ck8 inhibits dss-induced inflammatoryresponsesprevious studies have suggested that inflammatory conditions are key contributors to cac tumorigenesis.

while dss induced weight loss in both ck8 and ck8- mice a greater extent of weight loss was apparent in ck8- mice by day 7 figure 4a.

although we observed malformed stools and colonic edemas during necropsies of both ck8 and ck8- mice the ck8- mice had shorter colons indicating that their colonic injuries were more severe figure 4b.

as shown in figure 6a under conditions with normal drinking water colonic permeability did not differ significantly between wt and ck8- mice whereas with dss or aomdss treatment ck8- mice demonstrated greater colonic permeability higher levels of fluorescence in the serum than wt mice.

