vitamins b and k and the metabolism of xenobiotics furthermore the gut microflora worked as a functional barrier to prevent pathogenic bacteria from invading the gastrointestinal tract in recent years microbial guthas been greatly re-evaluated in functional terms and important mechanisms have been identified in the bi-directional connection with the brain for which the term gut-brain axis has been coined recent studies have shown that microbial alterations can modify normal brain functions resulting in anxiety depression and cognitive deficits for these reasons the gut microbiota is considered a real organ generating a peculiar paradox as the only organ formed by prokaryotic cells in an eukaryotic organismthe specific contribution of gut microbiota to ad pathogenesis will be discussed in the review hereinafter.age-dependent changes in gut microbiotagut microflora is acquired at birth and undergoes qualitative modifications throughout the years.proteobacteria prevail in the gut of breast-fed infants and bifi- dobacteria are also well represented moreover these babies have higher levels of bifidobacteria and lower abundance of potential pathogenic bacteria than formula-fed ones whose microbiota is formed mainly by bacteroides and clostridia weaning is characterized by a progressive increase in bacteroidetes and firmi- cutes together with a decrease in bifidobacteria and proteobacteria the gut of healthy adults is dominated by bacteroidetes mostly the genus bacteroides and firmicutes largely the genus eubacte- ria whereas actinobacteria including the genus bifidobacterium proteobacteria and verrucomicrobia represent only a small fraction regarding the elderly the composition of the gut microbiota does not always show univocal features but may vary depending on dietary habits specific diseases and antibiotic treatment greatly interesting are those changes which seem to be related to the geographic location.

have highlighted how specific bacte- rial taxa considered beneficial for human health are dominant in the gut microbiota of italian and chinese healthy centenarians and supercentenarians and provided stronger evidence for a functional link between gut microbiota and healthy aging.role of gut microbiota to adsome lines of preclinical and epidemiological evidence have associated alterations in gut microbiota with the onset and devel- opment of ad.

26 2016 1480-1485 e. biagi s. rampelli s. turroni s. quercia m. candela p. brigidi the gut microbiota of centenarians signatures of longevity in the gut microbiota profile mech.

biagi c. franceschi s. rampelli m. severgnini r. ostan s. turroni c. consolandi s. quercia m. scurti d. monti m. capri p. brigidi m. candela gut microbiota and extreme longevity curr.

naeslundii igg in subjects with ad whereas a high anti-e. nodatum igg level was associated with a decreased risk of ad modulation of gut microbiota as a prospective approach to contrast admany lines of preclinical evidence in the literature have shown the role of gut microbiota in controlling complex brain functions such as those associated to behavior and affectivity in view of this probiotic supplementation to counteract dysbiosis and other alterations in gut microflora has recently been clinically studied as an effective and alternative approach to prevent and counteract cognitive or emotional disorders both in the healthy population and in subjects with ad.tillisch et al.

reviewalzheimer's disease and gut microbiota modifications the long way between preclinical studies and clinical evidencecesare mancusorosaria santangeloa institute of pharmacology catholic university school of medicine largo f. vito 1-00168 rome italyb institute of microbiology catholic university school of medicine largo f. vito 1-00168 rome italya r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 4 december 2017accepted 5 december 2017available online 9 december 2017keywords alzheimer's disease intestinal microflora gut microbiota neurodegeneration prebioticsprobioticsrecent studies have suggested the role of an infectious component in the pathogenesis of alzheimer's disease ad.

nielsen e. pelletier p. renault t. sicheritz-ponten k. turner h. zhu c. yu s. li m. jian y. zhou y. li x. zhang s. li n. qin h. yang j. wang s. brunak j. dore f. guarner k.kristiansen o. pedersen j. parkhill j. weissenbach metahit consortium p. bork s.d.

cattaneo n. cattane s. galluzzi s. provasi n. lopizzo c. festari c. ferrari u.p.

recent studies have identified about 1000 bacterial species and 7000 bacterial strains for a total of 1013-1014 microrganisms in the gut among the most popular phyla are the firmicutes and bacteroidetes which make up 51 and 48 of the whole microbiota to the phylum firmicutes including both gram-positive and gram- negative bacteria belong the gen- era lactobacillus gram-positive eubacterium gram-positive and clostridium gram-positive although the latter in a minor proportion on the other hand the genera bacteroides and prevotella belong to the phylum bacteroidetes formed by gram- negative bacteria the remainder 1 is formed by other phyla such as proteobacteria gram-negative in particular the genus escherichia actinobacteria gram-positive particu- larly the genus bifidobacterium fusobacteria gram- negative spirochaetes gram-negative verrucomicrobia gram-negative and lentispherae gram-negative to date it was thought that the microbial gut was only involved in colon-specific activities such as the fermentation of carbohydrates vitamin synthesis e.g.

pistollato s. sumalla cano i. elio m. masias vergara f. giampieri m. battino role of gut microbiota and nutrients in amyloid formation and pathogenesis of alzheimer disease nutr.

biagi m. candela s. turroni p. garagnani c. franceschi p. brigidi ageing and gut microbes perspectives for health maintenance and longevity pharmacol.

hibberd h. forssberg s. pettersson normal gut microbiota modulates brain development and behavior proc.

-n-methylamino-l-alanine anatoxin-a and saxitoxin by these bacteria may play a role in the onset and development of cognitive dysfunctions as previously mentioned the oral cavity is also colonized bycommensal bacteria but unfortunately the oral microbiota has not been extensively studied as the gut microbiota in terms of con- tributing to the onset of diseases.

362 2010 329-344 c. ballard s. gauthier a. corbett c. brayne d. aarsland e. jones alzheimer's disease lancet 377 2011 1019-1031 1016s0140-67361061349-9.c.

brechot c. cara c. chervaux a. cultrone c. delorme g. denariaz r. dervyn k.u.

