recognition of these factors will help to achieve gradual worldwide improvement of rotavirus vaccine effectiveness.keywordsrotavirus vaccine efficacy low income countries malnutrition avitaminoses zinc deficiency gut microbiome microbial co-infections immunological immaturityintroductionrotaviruses rvs were discovered as a major cause of acute gastroenteritis age in infants and young children worldwide more than 40 years ago  and were also recognized as pathogenic agents in many mammalian and avian species .

the finding of 'herd immunity' in non-vaccinated children in contact with vaccines was a surprising but welcome 'side effect' .differences in rotavirus vaccine effectiveness causes and contributing factorswhereas vaccine effectiveness was high in high-income countries with protection rates against severe rv-disease at 80-90 - it was 30-50 lower in low- and middle-income countries mainly in sub-saharan africa and s.e.

reviewdifferences of rotavirus vaccine effectiveness by country likely causes and contributing factorsulrich desselbergerdepartment of medicine university of cambridge addenbrooke's hospital cambridge cb2 0qq uk ud207medschl.cam.ac.uk tel.

various factors that have been identified or suggested as being involved in the differences of rotavirus vaccine effectiveness are reviewed here.

rotarixr is a monovalent vaccine derived from a human g1p8 isolate.

asia where the vaccine is needed most -.

in india a human bovine natural reassortant vaccine consisting of the 116e rv strain g9p811 originally isolated from asymptomatically infected neonates in india was found to have an efficacy of 49-55 over two years against severe rv disease  i.e.

in the following various factors by which the life of children in low-income countries differ from that in high-income countries will be reviewed.malnutritionmalnutrition is associated with dysfunctions of innate and adaptive immunity  and therefore is a major factor negatively affecting vaccine efficacy and effectiveness in low- and middle-income countries .

vitamin a supplementation is recognized as a measure which increases vaccine efficiencyeffectiveness .vitamin dapart from its effects on bone development and stability deficiency causing rickets vitamin d is important for the functioning of the immune system since vitamin d deficiency vdd has been found to be associated with decreased immune responses to vaccines .

colonisation of gn piglets with lgg and bb12 increased the immune response to rv vaccine leading to 'immune homeostasis' strengthened the tight junctions of ileum epithelium and resulted in less viral shedding and decreased diarrhea after rv infection compared to non-colonized piglets.

the response to rv vaccination is decreased in children presenting with biomarkers of ee .passive transfer of maternal antibodiesrotavirus antibody transferred to infants in breast milkdata from africa  europe  and the usa  did not show significant differences in rv vaccine efficacy which depended on rv-specific antibodies passively transferred by mother's breast milk.

the major problems are malnutrition with deficiencies in micronutrients zinc vitamin a vitamin d connected with functional reduction of innate and acquired immune responses and the gut microbiome which is of proven influence for disease severity and vaccine uptake.

maternal rv-specific antibodies are of variable importance for disease and vaccine outcome.

specific diarrhea prevention programs supply of nutrients and micronutrients such as vitamins combined with rv vaccination have been shown to be beneficial.there are still many aspects requiring further research such as the mechanisms by which micronutrients affect the immune system the multifactorial influences of the gut microbiome ondisease severity and vaccine take a more detailed characterization of environmental enteropathy the influence of host genetics on disease severity and outcome of vaccination and further development of rv vaccines.there is great optimism that recent achievements in basic virology will contribute to progress in these topics.

second the availability of an entirely plasmid-based reverse genetics system for rvs  will help tackle research questions which before could not be addressed and will besides many other topics permit progress in the development of safer and widely cross-reactive rv vaccine candidates.acknowledgments the author gratefully acknowledges discussion on the topic of this review with beth d. kirkpatrick and her research group at the university of vermont usa.author contributions u.d.

