the data summarised above strongly suggest that the normal flora suppresses growth of s. aureus and that dysbiosis of the microbiota contrib- utes to the pathogenesis of ad .colonization of ad skin by s. aureusdespite the inhibitory role of the normal skin microbiota in trying to prevent growth of s. aureus s. aureus colonizes ad skin very effectively.

coagulase-negative staph- ylococci may reduce the risk of ad through mechanisms that are not completely understood but which include displacement of s. aureus by elaboration of antimicrobial substances and immune modulation .this review critically evaluates the factors that influence the ability of s. aureus to colonize the stratum corneum and the role of s. aureus products in the pathogenesis of eczema flares including superantigens toxins proteases and cell-envelope components.

these changes likely contribute to dysbiosis of the microbiota and proliferation of s. aureus.association of s. aureus with adas discussed many studies have shown that s. aureus is prevalent on the inflamed skin of ad patients .

examples of quantitative prevalence studies are described in .using rt-pcr to estimate the burden of s. aureus by amplifying a chromosomal gene from dna extracted from a standard volume of lavage fluid the density of s. aureus on both lesional and nonlesional skin correlated with disease severity  confirming results from earlier culture-based studies .the anterior nares provides the main habitat for commensal s. aureus which persistently colonizes 20-30 of the population .

inflammation is exacerbated by s. aureus due to the elaboration of toxins and lipoproteins that affect keratinocytes and skin immune cells .the changes to ad skin that allow s. aureus to proliferate are likely to include elevated ph increased surface exposure of tissue fluid and blood as binding targets a reduction in host antimicrobial peptides and an altered microbiota.

the coagulase- negative staphylococci cons s. epidermidis s. hominis and s. lugdunensis can elaborate peptide antibiotics lantibiotics that are bactericidal towards s. aureus .

strains from s. aureus clonal complex 1 are enriched among ad sufferers whereas the cc30 strains most frequently isolated from nasal carriers in the normal population are much rarer in ad.

s. aureus isolated from ad patients adheres to the deformed corneocytes from ad patients in a clumping factor b-dependent fashion.

novel targeted therapies for ad have recently been introduced to clinical practice with many more in development including monoclonal antibodies that specifi- cally target cytokines and their receptors and a bacteriophage lysin that eliminates s. aureus from ad skin.introduction to adad syn.

changes in the morphology and surface composition of corneocytes might provide a greater abundance of ligands to which s. aureus can adhere .several studies have shown that strains most commonly isolated from the inflamed skin of ad patients' skin are from cc1 whereas strains from cc30 which are most frequently isolated from the nares of healthy carriers are under-represented in ad .

cons with anti-s. aureus activity are common in normal skin but occur less frequently in ad skin colonized by s. aureus.

in the case of s. hominis and r. mucosa coinoculation with s. aureus onto mouse skin reduced the pathogen burden and signs of ad.

this inhibits the growth of s. aureus and could reduce expression of surface protein adhesins and protein a most likely by activating the mild acid stimulon .carriage of s. aureus in the nares is influenced by the normal flora.

of pages 14reviewstaphylococcus aureus and atopicdermatitis a complex and evolving relationshipjoan a. geoghegan1 1staphylococcus aureus is frequently isolated from the skin of atopic dermatitis ad patients during flares.

the skin of an ad patient during a flare has compromised barrier integrity which increases the likelihood of irritants penetrating the skin and triggering further inflammation thus creating a vicious cycle.the microbiota of the skin is important in maintaining immune homeostasis and preventing the growth of pathogens such as s. aureus .

