therefore our results demon- strate that the pattern of gm and the low levels of sbp ob- tained in the evoo group in comparison with the s group are compatible with the pattern of gm being related to lower levels of sbp suggesting an improvement in the gm in the shr fed an evoo diet.taking into account that an evoo diet reduces the devel- opment of hypertension in shr  the present data demon- strate to our knowledge a correlation between the reduction of sbp and a change in the profile of gm for the first time.

dna concentration and quality were assessed by nanodroptm nanodrop 2000 spectrophotometer thermo scientific.for the pcr amplification of the microbial community and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge analysis samples were prepared by two successive pcr amplifications nested pcr by using the primer pairs described previously .

the melting curve analysis was performed by gradually heating the pcr mixture from 70 degc to 100 degc 0.5 degc per cycle of 10 s. pcr amplification and detection of the fluorescent signal was performed using the mj opticon monitortm program bio-rad.bacterial abundance obtained by real-time pcr rt- pcr was expressed as the cycle threshold ct or the num- ber of cycles required for the fluorescent signal to cross the threshold.

in particular the link between the influence of monounsaturated fatty acids on gm and their beneficial effects on bp is not yet known.we reported previously on the differential influence of diets enriched with varying types of fat including extra virgin olive oil evoo on the gm of mice  and the positive effect of evoo on the levels of systolic blood pressure sbp in shr .

for real-time pcr fecal dna was extracted by using the kit qiaampr dna stool qiagenr following the manufacturer's in- structions.

pcr am- plification was performed with 50 ml mixtures containing 2 ml of template dna 5 ml 1x taq buffer invitrogen 6 ml of dntp's each deoxynucleoside triphosphate at a con- centration of 250 mm 3 ml 10 pmol of each primer 0.25 ml of taq dna polymerase invitrogen and made up to 50 ml with distilled water.

the significance of upgma clustering was estimated by cal- culating the cophenetic correlation coefficients.quantification of the different bacterial populations in feces was performed by real-time pcr chromo 4 real-time pcr detector dna enginer peltier cycler bio-rad using primers shown in table -.

in summary the present results demonstrate the following for shr after being fed an evoo-enriched diet 1 a signif- icantly higher abundance of lactobacilli and clostridia xiva as well as a significantly higher presence of 16s rrna genes as indicated by the use of universal primers 2 a link be- tween the higher abundance of clostridia xiva and low levels of sbp and vice-versa a relationship between the lower abundance of clostridia xiva and high levels of sbp and 3 indications that the evoo group exhibited higher microbialdiversity than the s group.clostridia cluster xiva is one of the three main strict an- aerobe groups in the intestine that accounts for the majority of the butyrate-production .

these results strongly connect the pattern of gm in shr fed a diet enriched with evoo to the lower levels of sbp observed in these animals at the end of the feeding period.keywords gut microbiota .

in these taxa the evoo group showed lower ct values indicating that a higher amount of dna was present.when correlations with the sbp values were drawn only the clostridia xiva values showed a significant outcome r -0.475 p  0.04 fig.

admin- istering the antibiotic minocycline restored in part the pattern of gm observed in normotensive rats and reduced sbp.

although the present study cannot demonstrate any causal relationship between sbp and gm profiles this is suggested.

1 a electrophoresis using dgge of the 16s rdna fragments amplified by pcr using dna extracted from feces as template after 12 weeks of diet.

to analyze the cause-effect relationship between intestinal microbial changes and blood pressure we studied the effect of evoo on fecal microbiota and systolic blood pressure sbp levels in spontaneously hypertensive rats shr.

a significant r-0.475 p0.04 inverse correlation between the abundance of clostridia xivand sbp which depends on the type of diet was also observed.

