Using the microbial inventories from this experiment we addressed the follow- ing questions i Across host species do gut regions harbour distinct microbial communities ii Within each gut region are the microbial communities of various host species distinguishable and if so iii Does the pattern of phylosymbiosis exist across gut regions These results will help to reveal how microbial communities structure across gut regions and host species.

Phylosymbiosis hypothesizes that microbial communities should be more similar within a host species compared to across species and that increasing genetic divergence between host species will be associated with greater differences in their microbial communities Bordenstein  Theis 2015 Brucker  Bordenstein 2012 2013.

We found that microbial communities vary along the length of the gas- trointestinal tract but that host species are still distinguishable in each gut region and that phylosymbiosis also is detectable across the vari- ous microbial communities present in the different regions of the gut.First we compared diversity and microbial community composi- tion across gut regions.

We have previously demonstrated that phylosymbiosis among species of Permoyscus has a functional component such that individuals of P. polionotus inoculated with the microbial communi- ties from more distantly related host species exhibited a reduced ability to digest food material Brooks et al.

For example the caecum is a region known for high microbial activity as evidenced by high levels of VFA production which the host can use an energy source Stevens  Hume 2004.Across all samples we found that both gut region and host spe- cies determined microbial community structure with host species having a greater effect.

Phylogenetic diversity was compared across samples using ANOVAs with the fixed effects of host species and gut region an interaction term of host species 9 gut region and including individual as a random effect.

Sequence return varied by host species gut region and with a signif- icant species 9 gut region interaction p  .001 for all effects.

From our data the ANOSIM R- values increase along the length of the gut suggesting that commu- nities become more differentiated across host species in the hindgut Figure 2.We also investigated the genera that differentiate host species along the length of the gut.

However P. eremicus also known as the cactus mouse is a desert-adapted species and exhibits much lower rates of voluntary drinking compared to other Peromyscus species Glenn 1970.

20171-10.c 2017 John Wiley  Sons Ltd  1microbiota differences between species are they meaningful in an evolutionarily informed manner How do different anatomical sites differentially affect assembly of microbial communitiesRecently we established the assembly pattern of phylosymbiosis as a widespread phenomenon across several animal groups Brooks Kohl Brucker van Opstal  Bordenstein 2016.

