what are the individual or combined roles of exogenous ot from milk and endogenous produc- tion of ot by the gut and brain if breast milk is not available to an infant which is often the case in preterm infants how does that lack of milk ot affect gut development in this population particularly at risk for necrotizing enterocolitis in turn since the gut provides massive input to the brain how would the absence of ot in the gut affect brain development and behavior and how are gut ot levels affected by the interventions aimed at emotional connection is it possible to overcome the negative effects of maternal separation with the positive effects of interventions such as fni if so what are the mechanisms by which it does soproposed oxytocin cellular mechanismbased on our research thus far we propose a possible mechanism by which emotional connection between mother and infant might up- regulate ot in innate immune and other cells in the gut and dampen inflammation and stress.figure 5 illustrates how the hypothesized positive social hormonal reflex works at the cellular level.

con- temporary theories about skin-to-skin contact propose that attachment and bonding occurs as the result of mother and infant contact and that the mechanisms by which the phenomena occur are brain-based and influenced by various signaling modulators including ot atzil hen- dler  feldman 2011 schore 2014.another theory in behavioral development focuses on the notion that attachment and bonding are the result of cognitive learning processes that occur independently in mother and in the infant bolten 2013. accordingly conventional interventions prioritize intervening in the thought processes of a dyad van wassenaer-leemhuis et al.

ot is expressed in the myenteric and submucousal ganglia and nerve fibres along the entire human gi tract ohlsson truedsson djerf  sundler 2006. the role for ot however in the physiology and pathophysiology of the bowel has been largely unexplored.more recently in vivo and in vitro studies have demonstrated the pres- ence and important effects of ot and ot receptor signalling in the gut on epithelium and on enteric neurons.

2007 as well as to numerous proteins including hormones such as ot prakash paul kliem kulozik  meyer 2009 solangi memon mallah khuhawar  bhanger 2009 takeda kuwabara  mizuno 1986. consequently milk ot may modulate stress in the early postnatal gut as it does in other organs amico mantella vollmer  li 2004 brunton  russell 2008.infant gut microbiome and oxytocinthe infant gut microbiome is influenced by several factors a major one being the breast milk from the mother.

we propose that oxytocin levels in the mother and infant are co-regulated by emotional connection or disconnection and that the autonomic co-conditioning learning mechanism can be exploited to change a negative physiological and behav- ioral response between mother and infant into a positive one.

sensory contact between the mother and infant trigger visceral signal- ing via the vagus nerve to the brain stem and hypothalamus of both mother and infant.

sensory contact between the mother and infant triggers vagal signaling to the brain stem of both mother and infant.

failure of upregulation can oc- cur in the case of adoption where close physical contact does not raise ot levels in response to affectionate interactions on mother's lap even after several years in the adopted home wismer fries ziegler kurian jacoris  pollak 2005. the co-regulation of ot is based on 5225what pavlov termed a conditional reflex.

2014. these studies suggest that biochemical factors in milk including exogenous ot from the mother play an im- portant role in the unfolded protein response to reduce cellular stress.more recently in vivo and ex vivo studies have shown that colostrum ot modulates the cellular stress response inflammation and autopha- gy markers in newborn rat gut villi klein tamir ludwig glickstein  welch 2017. in the newborn gut naive enterocytes suffer substan- tial cellular stress on their luminal side.

second the mother and infant co-regulate one another's visceral ot levels through pavlovian conditioning mechanisms of the gut.

finally we will review preclinical evidence examining the visceralautonomic co-regulation of oxytocin ot levels between mother and infant and a possible connection to emotional behavior.since 1997 welch and her research collaborators have systematically explored the hormonal physiological and behavioral underpinnings of maternal separation and reunion.

emotional connection produces an increase of ot in mother and infant.

eventually she developed the hypothesis that fni was conditioning the release of anti-inflammatory hormones such as ot.the role of ot in attachment between mother and infant and between two adults has been studied extensively carter this issue.

the beneficial effects were also lost after a vagotomy which suggests that gut bacteria signal to the brain via the vagus nerve erdman  poutahidis 2016.as for the direct transfer of ot from mother to infant through breast milk there is less research in this area.

the figure diagrams how fni theo- retically could produce calming effects at the intestinal the enteric and central nervous system levels and how the resulting signaling may af- fect emotional behavior.the positive upregulation of ot is triggered by emotional connection and sensory interactions between mother and infant.

