functional changes in the oral microbial communities of hpv-positive vs. hpv-negative cancer patients included phosphonate transport m00223 phosphonate transport and amino acid metabo- lism through heme m00121 heme biosynthesis glutamate  protohemesiroheme shikimate m00022 shikimate pathway phosphoenolpyruvate  erythrose-4p  chorismate glutamate and ornithine m00028 ornithine biosynthesis glutamate  ornithine supplementary dataset 5. we further investigated stratification of the oral cancer cases by site oral vs. oropharyngeal as well as hpv status yielding 52 oral cancers of which 2 4 were positive for hpv 44 85 negative and 6 11 unspecified and 64 oropharyngeal cancers of which29 45 were hpv-positive 10 16 negative and 25 39 unspecified 5 cancer cases with unspecified sites were excluded from this analysis.

alterations following tooth loss itself a major risk factor for oral cancer are likely a result of severe ecological disruption due to habitat loss but may also contribute to the development of the disease.head and neck squamous cell carcinomas are a major cause of cancer morbidity and mortality with an estimated incidence of 549000 cases worldwide in 2008. the majority of these are oral cancers arising in the oral cavity and oropharynx for which tobacco usage betel chewing alcohol consumption and human papillomavirus hpv infection are established risk factors-.

as these pathways are generally involved in oxidative energy harvest from tca cycle products particularly in combination with reduced lps transport this may reflect a shift toward anaerobic microbes andor metabolism in the oral cancer microenvironment.community functional dysbioses during oral cancer were also reflected in a predicted increase in the syn- thesis and transport of vitamins and cofactors involved in metabolism e.g.

the greatest dysbioses arose during tooth loss particularly when no natural teeth remained and other oral cancer risk factors including tobacco smoking hpv infection and periodontitis showed significant but smaller effects supplementary dataset 4 and 8.a small number of genera were differentially abundant during oral cancer specifically dialister enriched and scardovia depleted.

where bacterial colonization of tumor tissue and normal mucosa from the same subject were again found to be distinct.previous studies suggested that poor oral hygiene could in addition to increasing the risk of oral cancer influence the oral microbiome in cancer patients.

although the study design here permitted extensive testing of microbial dysbioses associated with oral cancer and its risk factors as well as limited functional testing much work remains in the analysis of the oral cancer microbiome.

eligible case subjects were identified from among consecutive patients diagnosed with oral cancer at the outpatient otolaryngology clinic of the ohio state university comprehensive cancer center columbus oh from july 2011 through may 2013. patients were eligible for inclusion into the study if they were older than 17 years and were newly diagnosed with a histologically confirmed squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity or oropharynx.

individuals with a prior history of head and neck cancer were ineligible.eligible controls included patients older than 17 years with no history of cancer who were evaluated as an out- patient for any benign condition between august 2011 and august 2013 at the same otolaryngology service where cases were enrolled.

estimates of worldwide burden of cancer in 2008 globocan 2008. int j cancer 127 2893-2917 2010.gillison m. l. et al.

interaction between tobacco and alcohol use and the risk of head and neck cancer pooled analysis in the international head and neck cancer epidemiology consortium.

eur j cancer b oral oncol 28b 9-15 1992.aggarwal b. b. vijayalekshmi r. v.  sung b. targeting inflammatory pathways for prevention and therapy of cancer short-term friend long-term foe.

clin cancer res 15 425-430 2009.read s. a.  douglas m. w. virus induced inflammation and cancer development.

cancer lett 345 174-181 2014.wang f. meng w. wang b.  qiao l. helicobacter pylori-induced gastric inflammation and gastric cancer.

presence of streptococcus anginosus dna in esophageal cancer dysplasia of esophagus and gastric cancer.

to date no large-scale case-control studies have considered the effects of these risk factors on the composition of the oralmicrobiome nor microbial community associations with oral cancer.

