b. thus it is likely that r-ketamine has more potency to improve the altered composition of gut microbiota after csds than s- ketamine.altered composition in the gut bacterium at the phylum levelthe phylum levels of gut bacterium 4 days day 16 after a single dose of saline r-ketamine or s-ketamine are shown fig.

these findings suggest that an altered gut microbiota composition plays a role in the depression-like phenotype of csds-susceptible mice and that the restoration of the gut microbiota induced by r-ketamine partly explains its robust antidepressant effects.at the phylum level levels of actinobacteria were sig- nificantly higher in active major depressive disorder mdd patients than in healthy control subjects.consistent with these results we found increased levels of actinobacteria in csds-susceptible mice.

nonetheless further studies on the anti-inflammatory and antidepressant actions of r-ketamine in the gut microbiota-brain axis will be needed.the present data do not provide direct evidence of the effect of gut microbiota on the antidepressant actions of r-ketamine because behavioral experiments using germ- free mice were not performed.

c.altered composition in the gut bacteria at the class levelthe class levels of gut bacterium 4 days after a single dose of saline r-ketamine or s-ketamine are shown fig.

c.altered composition in the gut bacteria at the family level the family levels of gut bacterium 4 days after a single dose of saline r-ketamine or s-ketamine are shown fig.

b.altered composition in the gut bacteria at the genus level the genus levels of gut bacterium 4 days after a single dose of saline r-ketamine or s-ketamine are shown fig.

considering the possible role of the gut microbiota in the antidepressant actions of certain compounds it is likely that the gut microbiota-brain axis plays at least a partial role in robust antidepressant actions of r- ketamine.the precise mechanisms underlying antidepressant actions of ketamine and r-ketamine are not fully understood.

given the role of gut microbiota in the immune system- it is likely that anti- inflammatory action of r-ketamine might play a role in its antidepressant effects through the immunomodu- lation by the gut microbiota.

in addition further studies using germ-free mice will be needed to confirm the role of gut microbiota in the antidepressant effects of r- ketamine.in conclusion the present study suggests that the gut microbiota-brain axis at least partially mediates the antidepressant actions of r-ketamine.

however the precise mechanisms underlying the antidepressant actions of ketamine enantiomers remain unclear.the gut microbiota-brain axis is a complex multiorgan bidirectional signaling system between the gut microbiota and brain that plays a crucial role in host physiology homeostasis development and metabolism-.

psychiatry 2017.ho p.  ross d. a. more than a gut feeling the implications of the gut microbiota in psychiatry.

there- fore the gut microbiota-brain axis possibly plays a role in the antidepressant actions of r-ketamine.

nonetheless additional studies elucidating the relationship between the gut microbiota-brain axis and the antidepressant actions of r-ketamine are needed.

a. tenericutes in the gut were significantly decreased in the susceptible mice after csds although neither ketamine enantiomers affected the decreased levels of tenericutes in the susceptible mice fig.

although the exact physiological implications of actinobacteria in depression are not fully understood it is likely that increased levels of actinobacteria in the gut contribute to the pathogenesis of depression.

