typhimurium versus s. typhimurium  e. faeciumuntransfected  s. typhimuriumuntransfected  s. typhimurium e. faeciumhbd-2  s. typhimuriumbhbd-2  s. typhimurium e. faeciumhbd-3  s. typhimuriumhbd-3  s. typhimurium e. faeciumfigure 3 comparison between relative gene expression a and protein concentration b in caco-2 cells infected with s. typhimurium alone and caco-2 cells coinfected with s. typhimurium and e. faecium.

typhimurium versus s. typhimurium  e. faeciumuntransfected  s. typhimuriumuntransfected  s. typhimurium e. faeciumhbd-2  s. typhimuriumahbd-2  s. typhimurium e. faeciumhbd-3  s. typhimuriumhbd-3  s. typhimurium e. faecium120011001000900800700600500400300200200150100500s.

in order to test the toxicity of antimicrobial peptides against s. typhimurium and e. faecium the supernatants of the coinfected cells were subjected to serial dilutions and plated on selective media.our results indicate that both hbd-2 and hbd-3 possess selective toxicity towards s. typhimurium and did not inter- fere with the growth of e. faecium table effect of e. faecium and amps on s. typhimurium invasiveness.

untransfected caco-2 cell cultures were infected with s. typhimurium alone or coin- fected with s. typhimurium and e. faecium as previously described.

typhimurium versus e. faeciumuntransfected s. typhimuriumhbd-2  s. typhimuriumhbd-3  s. typhimuriumauntransfected e. faeciumhbd-2  e. faeciumhbd-3  e. faeciumuntransfected s. typhimuriumhbd-2  s. typhimuriumhbd-3  s. typhimuriumbuntransfected e. faeciumhbd-2  e. faeciumhbd-3  e. faeciumfigure 2 comparison between relative gene expression a and protein concentration b in caco-2 cells infected with s. typhimurium and caco-2 cells infected with e. faecium.

after the infection of untransfected and hbd-2- or hbd-3-transfected caco-2 cells with e. faecium andor s. typhimurium we examined the host response by evaluating the expression of proinflammatory cytokines il-6 il-8 il-1a and il-1b and anti-inflammatory cytokine tgf-b by real-time pcr.thedataobtainedshowedthatthecellstransfectedwiththe hbd-2 and hbd-3 genes and infected with s. typhimurium showed a lesser expression of proinflammatory cytokines compared to the untransfected control.

instead an infec- tion of caco-2 cells with e. faecium resulted only in a slight increase of expression of proinflammatory cytokines and an increase in anti-inflammatory cytokine tgf-b which was more apparent in the presence of antimicrobial peptides these data confirm that e. faecium did not act as a pathogen and did not induce an increase in the inflam- matory response figure in addition during the coinfection with s. typhimurium and e. faecium the already significant decrease in expression levels of proinflammatory cytokines revealed in the trans- fected cells during infection with s. typhimurium alone is even more pronounced indicating that the antimicrobial peptides have enhanced probiotic antibacterial activity figure these data were also confirmed by elisa protein assay.evaluation of bacteria viability.

data are mean - sd and are expressed as the percentage of increment compared to uninfected controls.in particular b-defensin-2 hbd-2 and b-defensin-3 hbd-3 are present in various epithelia such as skin oral cavity paranasal sinuses gingival corneal intestinal respiratory and urogenital epithelium and show antimicrobial activity against gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria and fungi.it has been estimated that the number of microbes present throughout the human body amounts to approxi- mately 100 trillion cells tenfold the number of human cells and suggested that they encode 100-fold moreunique genes than our own genome most of them are components of the gut microbiota which contains between 1000 and 1150 prevalent bacterial species that play a central role in human health this community is defined as a metabolic organ as it plays a primary role in maintaining homeostasis by interven- ing in the regulation of metabolism and nutritional physio- logical and immunological functions.in the first phase of this work we worked on creating by cloning and gene transfection techniques a line oftable 2 cfusml of s. typhimurium and e. faecium in supernatants of coinfected cells.4000003000002000001000000figure 4 s. typhimurium internalization assay.

this allowed us to evaluate the role of these peptides in protecting the intestinal epithelium against s. typhimurium alone or in cooperation with e. faecium which is one of the major components of the human gut microbiota the first data obtained from the cfusml counts follow- ing infection and coinfection showed that there was a marked reduction in the number of colonies of s. typhimurium com- pared to untransfected cells in transfected cells while the number of colonies of e. faecium remained unchanged which shows that the antimicrobial peptides selectively car- ried out their microbicidal activity against the pathogen.mucosal surfaces are lined with epithelial cells that form a barrier between potentially pathogenic microorganisms and the host tissues.

336 pp.

8 pp.

25 pp.

25 pp.

44 pp.

2 pp.

