1-919-233-8214received 3 november 2017 accepted 9 december 2017 published 18 december 2017abstract subsocial wood feeding cockroaches in the genus cryptocercus the sister group of termites retain their symbiotic gut flagellates during the host molting cycle but in lower termites closely related flagellates die prior to host ecdysis.

in both cryptocercus and lower termites neonates acquire the flagellates from a parent or a sibling the latter in established colonies of termites the symbiosis is established at about the third instar in both taxa.

in both cryptocercus and termites the se cycle has degenerated from the strong encystment pattern likely shown by an ancestor but in both taxa protistan numbers and functions are reliably restored after molt albeit in different ways retention of protists in individuals of cryptocercus anal trophallaxis from nestmates in termites.

d either their own or that of a nest mate.what changedif cryptocercus represents the immediate ancestral condition of termites how was the transition in the host-symbiont relationship made based on his flagellate research cleveland's  interpretation was that somewhere in the evolution of termites the molting process changed so that the flagellates were killed each time its host molted instead of switching from asexual to sexual reproduction as they do in cryptocercus.

in each case excepttrichonympha magna in porotermes adamsoni alates the cycles abort and the flagellates die prior to molt.the aborted se cycles of termites during molt are a 'smoking gun' that supports cleveland's hypothesis whatever hormonal mechanisms suppress or alter progressive maturational development of the termites also disrupts the se cycle of termite protists.

it is a molt in which the termites acquire adult structures and reproductive competence thus entailing a different hormonal regulatory network  physiologically it may be the only 'normal' cockroach-like hemimetabolous molt experienced by termites .

loss of the intestinal flagellates is the single definitive trait separating the higher termites from the lower termites  and may be the fourth final step in the progression depicted in figure .

reviewwhat kills the hindgut flagellates of lower termites during the host molting cyclechristine a. nalepadepartment of entomology north carolina state university raleigh nc 27695-7613 usa christinenalepancsu.edu tel.

cleveland in the 1930s through the 1960s provides a strong alternate hypothesis it was the changed hormonal environment associated with the origin of eusociality and its concomitant shift in termite developmental ontogeny that instigates the death of the flagellates in termites.

recent work on parasitic protists suggests clear paths for exploring these hypotheses and for resolving long standing issues regarding sexual-encystment cycles in flagellates of the cryptocercus-termite lineage using molecular methodologies bringing the problem into the modern era.keywordssymbiosis microbiome caste determination polyphenism molt eusociality interdependency cyst hormones'one in general does not kill the goose that laid the golden egg' introductionoverwhelming evidence is now available from morphological characters and genomic analyses of both hosts and symbionts that termites are a clade nested within the cockroaches with the wood-feeding subsocial cockroach cryptocercus as their undisputed sister group -.

a prominent feature uniting cryptocercus with the termites is a symbiotic relationship with single-celled anaerobic eukaryotes living in the enlarged hindgut paunch of the insects.

it has been long thought  and is now strongly established that divergence of the flagellates took place in a common ancestor of cryptocercus and termites currently estimated as occurring170 mya .

intergenerational transmission is vertical  they are transferred from parents to offspring via proctodeal anal trophallaxis the hatchlings feed on parental hindgut fluids in both cryptocercus and termites in the latter during the incipient subsocial stage.

in termites however the flagellates are re-circulated among colony members via trophallaxis once the colony becomes established.

the protists are housed in the gut of an individual insect living within a family cryptocercus or colony termites which is lodged within the buffered environment of a nest.

