A direct analysis of the sample's animal ge- nomic material confirmed that there was indeed something nonpoultry in the mix.The microbiome surveillance approach is based on the idea that new microbial species added into the food should compete for resources such as oxygen and nutrients affecting other species that rely on those same resources and causing a shift in the microbiome.

Barak and her team are beginning to categorize the microbiome of healthy versus diseased tomato plantspart of a recently launched Tomato Microbiome in Sickness and in Health project.Although government agencies have yet to adopt microbiome surveillance strategies they are using new genomic techniques that are already starting to revolutionize food surveillance.

But Dessai expects his group will turn to microbiome methods once the technology matures.Putting Research into PracticeIf microbiome surveillance is ever to become a legiti- mate food safety approach researchers will have to grapple with multiple challenges.

INNER WORKINGSCompanies seek food safety using a microbiome approachCarolyn Beans Science WriterIn a pet food factory in Reno NV researchers from IBM Research and Mars Inc. are conducting an experiment that may someday revolutionize food safety.

Each sample of this raw material contains a vast community of living bacteria and viruses--the poultry meal's microbiome--that either originated with the chicken parts or entered at some point along the food processing chain.

A shift in the microbiome then could signify that something is amiss--a pathogen has spiked a toxin is present or the item labeled poultry is actually from another animal altogether.

By routinely sampling the microbiome of this raw pet food material researchers could pinpoint and stop safety issues before the foodleads to sick pets.

And if a microbiome surveillance approach works for poultry meal it might just work for the rest of the food supply.

And within this same analysis the team can also test for genomic material belonging to animals and plants which could provide direct evidence that say fish had somehow ended up in the poultry meal.Although lacking a precise definition the term microbiome typically describes a living community of interacting microbial species.

The approach hinges on the concept that a food when safe should have a microbial baseline--that is to say a fairly standard microbiome.

