compared to the control group the hfd group had higher body weight liver weight and serum alt ast tg tc hdl-c and ldl-c levels figures dzd treatment for 4 weeks signif- icantly decreased body and liver weights and restored serum lipid levels and liver function parameters compared with those of the hfd group figures meanwhile the body weight liver weight serum lipids and liver function parameters of the dzd group were similar to those of the control group.

0.01   0.05  0.01. alt alanine aminotransferase ast0.790.680.570.4650.340.2320.110.0010.80.60.40.20community bar plot analysiscontrolnaflddzdcontrol group nafld group dzd groupacontrol group nafld group dzd groupbelusimicrobia cyanobacteria proteobacteria tenericutescfirmicutes bacteroidetes others1008060402000.20.140030-0.120-0.210-0.30-0.4pcoa on otu levelcontrolnaflddzdcontrolnaflddzd-0.2-0.100.1pc131.030.2decontrol group nafld group dzd groupfscore plot based on the unweighted significance test f. the data are expressed as mean - sem.

demon- strated that the ruminococcaceae family and the oscillibacter genus increased significantly in the healthy group comparedto those in the nafld group 3. ruminococcaceae oscil- libacter and butyricicoccus are short chain fatty acid- scfa- producing bacteria which prevent metabolic endotoxemia by strengthening the gut barrier 35-3. scfas can protect against gut inflammation and decrease intestinal permeabil- ity 38 9. changes of these gut bacteria induce decrease of scfas increasing the intestinal permeability.

in our study bac- teroidetes decreased in the nafld group but damage of theintestinal barrier and increase of the gut permeability induced more gut-derived bacterial lps to enter blood via the hepatic portal system 28. the integrity of the intestinal barrier is closely related to gut bacteria-derived products and lps can increase the gut permeability by inducing intestinal inflam- matory response.

we also demonstrated that dzd administration for 4 weeks reduced body weight and blood lipid levels improved liver function parameters and alleviated the liver pathological changes of nafld rats figures and hence dzd indeed relieved hfd-induced nafld.in sequencing studies the microbiota composition of nafld patients markedly changed after hfd feeding so dzd may mitigate nafld by altering the gut microbiota following oral administration.

the three groups also had similar serum glucose levels figure consistently the liver sections of the hfd group showed extensive macrosteatosis and hepato- cyte ballooning which were relieved in those of dzd-treated rats figure j. collectively dzd exerted beneficial effects on the nafld rat model.effects of dzd therapy on the gut microbiota compo- sition of nafld rats.

nevertheless we herein proved that dzd invention restored the changes of these gut bacteria induced by hfd.in this study we focused on the influence of gut micro- biota-mediated inflammation activation on the intestinal barrier so we detected the changes of inflammatory signaling pathway in the gut.

hfd and dzd both significantly reduced the diversity of gut microbiota compared with that of the control group figure however the three groups had similar richness figure subsequently we detected the gut microbiotas in different groups on the phylum level.

meanwhile the three groups had similar richness as indicated by the chao index figure samples from the three groups formed distinct clusters in the ordination plot suggesting that hfd and dzd induced main changes in the gut microbiota figure the hfd group had a higher relative abundance of firmicutes and a lower relative abundance of bacteroidetes than those of the control group and dzd decreased the proportion of firmicutes and increased that of bacteroidetes on the phylum level figuresand e. besides principle component analysis pcoa was performed to compare the differences in bacterial communities between different groups on the otu level figure .

the protein expression levels of tlr4 and myd88 were upregu- lated in the ileum of the hfd group figures after treatment with dzd such levels were restored to normal figures the phosphorylation levels of erk and jnk in the hfd group exceeded those of the control group figures and however the three groups had similar erk and jnk levels figures and similarly dzd downregulated the phosphorylation levels of these proteins figures and thus activation of the tlr4 signaling pathway in the ileum was enhanced by hfd whereas dzd reduced the activity of this pathway to normal.dzd intervention activated the tlr4 signaling pathway in the colon.

herein escherichiashigella genus was significantly enriched in the nafld group com- pared to that in the control group which decreased to normal levels after dzd treatment figure d. increase of escherichiashigella can induce intestinal inflammation causing intestinal barrier dysfunction 32 3. therefore even a small number of gram-negative bacteria can still destroy the intestinal barrier through intense proinflamma- tory effects.in our study the fecal microbiome of the nafld group had decreased ruminococcaceae family oscillibacter genus and butyricicoccus genus figures  and but the results were restored by dzd treatment.

the protein expression levels of tlr4 and myd88 in the ileum were upregulated in the hfd group figures after treatment with dzd such levels were restored to normal figures the total protein levels of erk and jnk were similar among the three groups figures and however the phosphorylation levels of these two proteins in the hfd group surpassed those of the control group figures and dzd downregulated the phosphorylation levels of erk and jnk in nafld rats figures and these results confirmed that activation of the tlr4 signaling pathway in the ileum was upregulated by hfd.

we found that dzd reduced body and liver weights of nafld rats improved serum lipid levels and liver function parameters and relieved nafld.

however further studies are needed to clarify the mechanism by which dzd treats nafld.introductionnonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld as the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome is typified by fat accumulation in the liver without significant alcohol consumption .

to evaluate the therapeutic effect of dzd on nafld in the hfd-fed rat model we detected the body weight liver weight serum lipid levels liver function parameters and pathological changes of three groups.

