in all soil type together with agri- cultural practices that directly influence the soil are thought to be the main drivers of rhizosphere microbial communities in agricultural set- tings while climate conditions and plant species are the most influential factors in the natural ecosystems .plant roots are thought to select for specific microbes by producing an array of metabolites including secondary metabolites such as anti- microbial compounds  and defence phytohormones  that vary with plant species and plant age  .

key microbial taxa in the rhizosphere of sorghum and sunflower grown in crop rotationtanzelle oberholster  surendra vikram  don cowan  angel valverde a department of genetics centre for microbial ecology and genomics university of pretoria pretoria south africab department of microbial biochemical and food biotechnology university of the free state bloemfontein south africah i g h l i g h t srhizosphere microbial diversity and composition changed over time.changes were due to both plant devel- opment stage and seasonality in bulk soil biota.proteobacteria and nitrospirae were overrepresented in the rhizosphere.rhizosphere networks contained keystone taxa.findings may contribute to microbial- based strategies to enhance crop productivity.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 17 october 2017received in revised form 15 december 2017accepted 15 december 2017available online 19 december 2017 editor elena paolettikeywords microbial networks soilfield conditions diversity compositiona b s t r a c t microbes are key determinants of plant health and productivity.

other factors such as climatic conditions plant species plant development stage and the interactions between all these factors are also drivers of microbial community composition  .

variations between plant spe- cies in the quantity and quality of rhizodeposits  which also change over time  may explain the contribution of the plant to these patterns.

there are several contrasting reports in the literature relating to whether habitat type rhizosphere vs bulk soil plant grow stage plant species or soil type is the dominant factor in driving biodiversity patterns in soil microbial communities statistics describe linear mixed models of euclidean distances principal coordinates.

this suggests that the same mi- crobial taxa may be functionally important in the rhizosphere of differ- ent plant species and at different growth stages.these key otus belonged to genera such as rhizobiumsphingomonas burkholderia and pseudomonas which are known to con- tain strains with plant growth-promoting abilities .

knowledge of the specific ecological role of most of these bacteria in soils is limited although several of the above mentioned taxa which have been isolated from a variety of plant samples may provide beneficial effects on plant health and growth .

2013. the rhizosphere microbiome signifi- cance of plant beneficial plant pathogenic and human pathogenic microorganisms.

previous studies have characterized the rhizo- sphere microbiomes of numerous plant species but little information is available on how rhizosphere microbial communities change over time under crop rotation systems.

interestingly some of these taxa showed similar patterns at different sampling times suggesting that the same organisms may play the same functionalstructural role at different plant growth stages and in different crops.

0048-9697c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.introductionrhizosphere microbial communities play key roles in determining plant health and productivity .

for example a study of the rhizosphere microbiota of three model plants arabidopsis medicago and brachypodium and three crops brassica pisum and triticum showed that all plant species tested had very different microbiota from each other and from unplanted soil and that arabidopsis had the weakest influence on its microbiota  .

it has been demonstrated that the small con- tainers used in most indoor experiments have a negative impact on root function root distribution and plant growth .

soil micro- bial communities were analysed at pre-planting and at three plant growth stages i.e.

our primary goals were i to investigate how the diversity alpha and beta components of the soil prokaryote community associated with the roots of sorghum and sunflower grown under crop rotation change with plant development stage and soil properties and ii to determine whether the rhizosphere of these two contain stable key microbial community members.

