intestinal bacteria and fgidcorrelations between intestinal bacteria and fgid have been pointed out as the intestinal microbiota of patients with fgid is different  small intestinal bacterial overgrowth sibo and ibsa high concentration of hydrogen ions in the intestinal tract of pa- tients with fgid has been reported and they were thought to be produced as a result of intestinal bacteria's metabolic response.

detailed examination in a form of a large-scale study is desirable for the future.figure 2 the effect of intestinal microbiota on gut  intestinal bacterial species and ibsin addition to the volume the species of intestinal bacteria have also been the focus of attention.

this result suggested that ibs pa- tients can be classified into two types that is patients who develop ibs due to psychological reasons in spite of having normal intestinal microbiota and patients who develop ibs due to infection or other diseases that result in altered intestinal microbiota.11regarding the correlations with pi-ibs there are no reports that showed a significantly different intestinal microbiota in pi-ibs patients and non-pi-ibs patients.

biopsy of the all intestinal layers of patients with pi-ibs also revealed thickened intestinal mus- cle layers strong inflammatory cell infiltration in the nerve plexus between muscle layers reduced number of nerve cells and a reduced number of interstitial cells of cajal suggestive of close association with a regulation dysfunction of gi motility.

however once how infectious diseases affect the intestinal microbiota is demonstrated the understanding of the clinical manifestations is likely to be enhanced greatly.most of the intestinal microbiota examinations use enteric fluids or stools and they are useful in studying the effects on the intralumi- nal metabolism.

as bacteria at- tached to mucus have a direct impact on the epithelial cells in the intestinal tract and the immunocompetent cells in mucus evaluation of the bacteria attached to the mucus of ibs patients is anticipated figure 2.2  conclusion in this article i have summarized infectious diseases and a role of intestinal bacteria in patients with fgid.

i believe a study approach that correlates theimmunological changes and changes in the intestinal bacteria of ibs patients with the clinical conditions of inflammatory intestinal dis- eases is effective.

in this report correlations between infectious diseases intestinal bacteria and immune response and fd and ibs are summarized.

as patients who had intestinal infection contin- ually develop pi-ibs symptoms for some reason they have become a useful model for understanding the clinical manifestation of ibs.pi-ibs has thus been reported in association with bacterial enteri- tis and more recently pi-ibs associated with viral gastroenteritis has also been observed.

the number of mast cells observed in the large intestinal biopsy speci- mens was not increased but that of mast cells observed in the ileo- cecal region and the ilium terminal biopsy specimens of both pi-ibsfrom that of healthy people and symptoms often improve with an an- tiflatulent or an antibiotic agent.

the number of intestinal bacteria is low in the stomach and jejunum 101-103 cfuml but it increases in the ilium 104-107 cfuml and the colon 1010-1013 cfuml.

as thus the intraluminal environment differs greatly depending on the part of the intestinal tract.8figure 1 functional regulation of il-1b in pi-ibsand ibs patients was increased compared to normal people.

the lactose and mannitol tolerance test that assessed permeability of intestinal mucosa revealed increased permeability in pi-ibs patients compared to normal people and the possible involvement of inflammatory cytokines including tnf-a and interferon was suggested.

lactulose hydrogen breath test lhbt and glucose hydro- gen breath test ghbt are breath tests that evaluate metabolism of intestinal bacteria based on the hydrogen gas and methane gas in breath.

majority of reports involved examination of the intestinal bacteria excreted in stools which were then cultured for species identification in early days.

