our present findings showed that tp supplementation caused a significant increase in adiponectin mrna expression in mat and circulating adiponectin concentration in hfd-fed bco1--bco2-- double ko mice which was in agreement with our previous report that lycopene-rich tomato oleoresin modulates plasma adiponectin concentration and mrna levels of adiponectin in adipose tissue of obese rats  indicating the induction of adiponectin by tp per se and independent of carotenoid cleavage enzymes.considering that adiponectin transcription in adipose tissue can be upregulated in response to pparg activation   we examined pparg in mat and found that tp supplementation increased pparg mrna expression which might be the potential mechanism by which tp enhanced adiponectin production.

cell metabolism 2008 8 347-358.larter c. z. farrell g. c. insulin resistance adiponectin cytokines in nash which is the best target to treat journal of hepatology 2006 44 253-261.kaser s. moschen a. cayon a. kaser a. crespo j. pons-romero f. ebenbichler c. f. patsch j. r. tilg h. adiponectin and its receptors in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.

differences were considered significant when p value  0.05.resultsdietary tp alleviated hfd-induced hepatic steatosis and tg accumulation in bco1--bco2-- double ko micethere were no differences in initial body weights mat weights or liver weights between the hfd and hfdtp groups table 1. compared to an undetectable amount of lycopene in livers of mice fed only hfd the lycopene concentration in the livers of hfdtp fed mice was 14.0 - 2.3 nmolg table 1. we only detected a trace amount of both b-carotene and phytoene in the livers of bco1--bco2-- double ko mice.

scientific reports 2015 5 8096.qin n. yang f. li a. prifti e. chen y. shao l. guo j. le chatelier e. yao j. wu l. zhou j. ni s. liu l. pons n. batto j. m. kennedy s. p. leonard p. yuan c. ding w. chen y. hu x. zheng b. qian g. xu w. ehrlich s. d. zheng s. li l. alterations of the human gut microbiome in liver cirrhosis.

another microbial richness index chao 1 showed a relative increase in the hfdtp group but this finding was not significant p  0.06. there was no significant difference in microbial evenness measured by shannon's index figure 6a b.in addition we examined the intestinal microbiota response in mice fed semi-purified powder hfd and hfdtp diets supplemental figure 1. the distribution of beta-diversity measures patterns of separation was compared between hfd with or without tp feeding using standard chow diet fed mice as a relative control group.

cell biochemistry and function 2010 28 623-631.duval c. thissen u. keshtkar s. accart b. stienstra r. boekschoten m. v. roskams t. kersten s. muller m. adipose tissue dysfunction signals progression of hepatic steatosis towards nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in c57bl6 mice.

inflammatory bowel diseases 2015 21 1957-1966.degirolamo c. rainaldi s. bovenga f. murzilli s. moschetta a. microbiota modification with probiotics induces hepatic bile acid synthesis via downregulation of the fxr-fgf15 axis in mice.

faseb journal official publication of the federation of american societies for experimental biology 2010 24 2596-2611.nov o. kohl a. lewis e. c. bashan n. dvir i. ben-shlomo s. fishman s. wueest s. konrad d. rudich a. interleukin-1beta may mediate insulin resistance in liver-derived cells in response to adipocyte inflammation.

the journal of nutrition 1991 121 1613-1621.bai s. k. lee s. j. na h. j. ha k. s. han j. a. lee h. kwon y. g. chung c. k. kim y. m. beta-carotene inhibits inflammatory gene expression in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages by suppressing redox-based nf-kappab activation.

tp supplementation for 24 weeks did not alter the incidence of hepatic steatosis but significantly decreased severity of hepatic steatosis hepatic steatosis scores ranged from grade 1 to 3 with the median value of 2 p  0.048 as compared to the hfd group hepatic steatosis scores ranged from grade 2 to 4 with the median value of 3 figure 1a b. consistently total hepatic tg concentration was significantly reduced with tp supplementation in the hfd fed group p  0.045 as compared with that of the hfd fedalone figure 1c.amelioration of hfd-induced hepatic steatosis by tp was associated with increased sirt1 activity in bco1--bco2-- double ko micewe examined both mrna and protein levels of sirt1 and did not find any differences between the two groups figure 2a b. however we found that acetylation of foxo1 was significantly decreased in mice fed tp p  0.03 suggesting an increased sirt1 deacetylase activity with tp supplementation figure 2c.

this is consistent with a study performed by bajaj et al who found that lower adiponectin plasmalevels were inversely correlated with hepatic fat contents  and further supported by ourobservation that hfdtp fed mice had significantly higher hepatic adipor2 protein than hfd mice.

nature communications 2010 1 3.ip b. c. hu k. q. liu c. smith d. e. obin m. s. ausman l. m. wang x. d. lycopene metabolite apo-10'-lycopenoic acid inhibits diethylnitrosamine-initiated high fatdiet-promoted hepatic inflammation and tumorigenesis in mice.

significantly different from the hfd p  0.05. bco1 beta-carotene-15 15'-oxygenas bco2 beta-carotene-9' 10'-oxygenase ko knockout hfd high fat diet tp tomato powder ampk amp-activated protein kinase acc acetyl-coa carboxylase ppar peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor cpt1 carnitine palmitoyltransferase acox1 acyl-coa oxidase 1 dgat diglyceride acyltransferase.figure 4. effects of tp on hepatic mrna expressions of adipokines and cytokines in mat and plasma adiponectin levels in hfd-fed bco1--bco2-- double ko mice.

significantly different from the hfd p  0.05. bco1 beta-carotene-15 15'-oxygenas bco2 beta-carotene-9' 10'-oxygenase ko knockout hfd high fat diet tp tomato powder adipor adiponectin receptor.figure 6. effects of tp on microbiota richness and clostridium abundance in hfd-fed bco1--bco2-- double ko mice.

antioxidants  redox signaling 2011 15 425-435.feige j. n. lagouge m. canto c. strehle a. houten s. m. milne j. c. lambert p. d. mataki c. elliott p. j. auwerx j. specific sirt1 activation mimics low energy levels and protects against diet-induced metabolic disorders by enhancing fat oxidation.

