Current methods used to quantify TC include visual para- meters such as the coated area TC thickness and TC discoloration .

12 034001View the for updates and enhancements.This content was downloaded from IP address 129.219.8.1 on 21032018 at 1828TOPICAL REVIEW Tongue coating its characteristics and role in intra-oral halitosis andRECEIVED19 September 2017REVISED20 December 2017ACCEPTED FOR PUBLICATION22 December 2017PUBLISHED6 March 2018general health--a reviewKavitha Seerangaiyan  Frits Juch and Edwin G Winkel1 Department of Periodontology Center for Dentistry and Oral Hygiene University Medical Center Groningen Groningen The Netherlands2 Department of Fixed and Removable Prosthodontics Center for Dentistry and Oral Hygiene University Medical Center Groningen Groningen The NetherlandsE-mail Keywords tongue coating TC halitosis intra-oral halitosis IOH volatile sulfur compound VSC tongue microbiomeAbstractTongue coating TC a grayish-white deposit on the tongue is the main cause of intra-oral halitosis IOH a socially unacceptable condition.

This review provides an overview of the current knowledge of TC and its role in IOH.The formation of tongue coatingThere is no substantial evidence to explain the precise cause of TC formation.

A microscopic study on the ultrastructure of the tongue showed that the rates of epithelial cell multiplication and membrane-coating granule production were asso- ciated with TC formation .The characteristics of tongue coatingBefore studying TCs it is of paramount importance to understand that the light source and the position of the patient during the examination  might influ- ence the appearance and color of the TC.A TC is normally present in healthy people .

With periodontal disease the TC thickness increases due to the migration of leukocytes from periodontal pockets into the saliva and subse- quently these cells are deposited onto the tongue sur- face .Factors that affect tongue coatingThe importance of ageThe age of the individual influences the thickness of the TC .

Furthermore filiform papillae which assist in TC formation were found to increase with age and fungiform papillae decreased with age .The effect of diet on tongue coatingThe thickness and color of the TC are affected by dietary conditions.

Consequently the thickness of the TC might increase .Oral hygieneOral hygiene is the strongest influential factor in the formation of TC .

Furthermore VSCs were correlated with TC factors but the TC was not corre- lated with the microbial load.

In addition sulfur substrates can be putrefied to form malodorous VSCs by other components of the TC   and by components of the postnasal drip a yellow mucus discharged from the nasal sinus which drips onto the posterior tongue dorsum .Various microbiological studies have focused on TC samples from periodontal healthy patients with and without IOH.

This review covers the general features of TC including its formation and the factors that influence it.

