the female urinary microbiome a comparison of women with and without urgency urinary incontinence.

j clin microbiol 20165451216-22.clayson d wild d doll h keating k gondek k. validation of a patient-administered questionnaire to measure the severity and bothersomeness of lower urinary tract symptoms in uncomplicated urinary tract infection uti the uti symptom assessment ques- tionnaire.

gram-positive uropathogens polymicrobial urinary tract infection and the emerging microbiota of the urinary tract.

however the current understanding of uti remains based on a now disproven concept that the urinary bladder is sterile.

urinary tract infectionintroductionurinary tract infection uti is the most common bacterial infection in adult women with 50 of women experiencing at least one uti in their lifetime and as many as 10 having at least one uti annually.

the nomenclature and concepts of uti based on the now disproven dogma that the lower urinary tract is a sterile environment have remained stagnant over many decades.

this older dogma has been in- formed with scientific evidence that some bacteria are present linda brubaker 1 department of microbiology and immunology stritch school of medicine loyola university chicago maywood il usa2 department of urology center for female pelvic health weill cornell medicine new york ny usa3 departments of obstetrics  gynecology and urology loyola university medical center maywood il usa4 department of reproductive medicine division of female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery university of california san diego san diego ca usa5 division of female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery department of reproductive medicine university of california san diego la jolla ca usain the absence of urinary symptoms or a positive result of traditional uti tests urinalysis or standard urine culture.

although discovery of the urinary microbiota should clearly affect the care of women with uti specific clinical changes occur slowly.

it is already clear that the widely used standard urine culture methods for detecting urinary bacteria have sig- nificant limitations compared with 16s rrna gene sequenc- ing - and more sensitive enhanced culture techniques -.

these more sensitive assays have demonstrated that the female urinary bladder contains its own community of microbes or microbiota.

the first step in this process is a clear discussion of the limitations of the current standards in the context of the new knowledge about the female urinary microbiota.

in adult women such dysbioses could result from an invading microbe in the urinary system an antimicrobial treatment or some change to the host's metab- olism or immune system.

the goal of uti treatment should not be to eradicate every microbe in the bladder especially given the evidence that some members of the urinary microbiota are beneficial andor protective .the limitations of uti testingthe standard urine culture suc is currently the diagnostic gold standard for confirming the presence of bacteriuria for uti diagnosis .

this bias has caused fundamental misunderstandings of the bacterial contributions to urinary health and disease.typically suc is performed in a clinical laboratory by plating 1 ml of urine onto blood and macconkey agar plates and incubating aerobically at 35 degc for 24 h. since the original description of this technique in the 1950s  this protocol has been adopted as the standard diagnostic tool for the detec- tion of utis despite numerous limitations reported by many different investigators -.

transurethral catheterized urine specimens were collected and urinary symptoms were documented using the validated uti symptoms assessment utisa questionnaire .we assessed the microbiota using both suc and equc.

