unweighted principal coordi- nate analysis of microbiota composition showed distinct clustering of the microbiota of mock-treated mice compared with that of infected mice a. taxonomic analysis of microbiota composition of mock-treated mice revealed that during s. tm infection the phyla bacteroidetes and firmicutes were significantly decreased b. in particularabcdpopulations of the class clostridia were significantly diminished 3-fold p  0.05. in contrast a bloom of gammaproteobacteria the class to which s. tm belongs was observed c. in agreement with our initial profiling table s1 targeted measure- ments of butyrate by gcms demonstrated that mock-treated mice had nearly 10-fold higher levels of butyrate in their cecal content compared with that of s. tm-infected mice d and a concomitant increase in lactate concentrations a. the fitness advantage conferred by lactate oxidation was time dependent and correlated with the magnitude of cecal inflamma- tion figure s6.

compared with healthy control mice strep-tomycin-treated and s. tm-infected mice exhibited a significant decrease in clostridia and bacteroidetes populations and a bloom of the enterobacteriaceae population a. cecal butyrate levels were significantly decreased and lactate levels were elevated in streptomycin-treated and s. tm-infected mice compared with mock-treated controls b and 3c.

this analysis identified several extracellular metabolites with differential abundance in the cecal contents of infected mice compared with mock-treated mice.

as a proof-of-principle experiment germ- free swiss webster mice were either mock treated or receivedabcdefigure 1. the host is a source of lactate during s. tm infectiongroups of swiss webster mice were inoculated with the s. tm wild-type strain wt or mock treated with lb broth.

after 8 days of infection the mice were euthanized and lactate concentration in the cecal content was analyzed by gcmsms.groups of swiss webster mice were intragastrically inoculated with a 11 ratio of the indicated s. tm strains.

to determine whether exogenous supple- mentation with butyrate was sufficient to suppress the spike in lactate levels streptomycin-treated mice were orally treated with tributyrin glyceryl tributyrate d. this exogenous supplementation with a butyrate source significantly decreased the cecal lactate concentration 3 days after streptomycin treatment.in germ-free mice colonocytes perform lactate fermentation due to a lack of microbial short-chain fatty acids  .

this metabolic switch has also been shown in germ-free mice  and in ex vivo-cultured colonocytes from dss-treated mice   a chemical model of experimental colitis.

male and female mice aged 6-8 weeks were used for all experiments and no differences between male and female mice were identified.

mice that were euthanized early due to health concerns and mice that were insufficiently colonized 10 colonies in 100 ml of undiluted sample competitive infections only were excluded from analysis.

mice that were euthanized early due to health concerns and mice that were insufficiently colonized 10 colonies in 100 ml of undi- luted sample competitive infections only were excluded from analysis.

administration of a lactate dehydrogenase inhibitor blunted lactate production in germ-free mice suggesting that lactate was predominantly of host origin.

groups of swiss webster mice were intragastrically inoculated with the s. tm wild-type strain or mock treated with lysogeny broth-miller lb broth.

tm infection while only small amounts of this compound were detected in mock-treated mice.

we intragastrically inoculated conventionally raised swiss webster mice with equal amounts of both the s. tm wild-type strain and a dlldd ddld mutant.

the wild-type strain was recovered from the cecal content at significantly higher numbers than the dlldd ddld mutant 13-fold p  0.05 when comparing the individ- ual wild-type and dlldd ddld populations b. to deter- mine whether lactate oxidation provides a fitness advantage in competition with the gut microbiota we intragastrically inocu- lated groups of swiss webster mice with the s. tm wild-type strain and the dlldd ddld mutant respectively single infection.

