nevertheless the authors provide no information regarding cre colonization that would help to better ana- lyze previous findings especially the one claiming a high eradication rate .second authors highlighted the ac- quisition of resistance genes followingfmt n  37 including extended-spec- trum b-lactamase but fortunately in a fewer number than gene depletion.

n engl j med 2013 368407-15.dinh a duran c bouchand f salomon j davidob.

the authors should be congratulated for their findings regarding the impact of fecal microbiota transplantation fmt on antimicrobial resistance gene carriage after clostridium difficile infection cdi .

however metagenomic analysis tests might be too sensitive to predict real-life results of fmt in cases of mdro colonization.third the work is all the more remark- able as the authors recruited 8 differ- ent donors to match 8 recipients which demonstrates the variability of the re- sponse after fmt.

despite the fact fmt is trendy harmonization and more data are needed  to broaden its use to fight against antimicrobial resistance.overall we congratulate the authors for their effort to bring new data on sus- ceptibility genes and microbiota diver- sity that might help to better understand fmt effectiveness for decolonization of mdro carriers .notepotential conflicts of interest.

all authors no reported conflicts of interest.

all authors have submitted the icmje form for disclosure of potential conflicts of interest.

is faecal microbiota transplantation an option to eradicate highly drug-resistant enteric bacteria carriage j hosp infect 2017. available at .

accessed 24 march 2017.bilinski j grzesiowski p sorensen n et al.

accessed 6 may 2017.davido b batista r fessi h salomon j dinh a. impact of faecal microbiota transplantation to eradicate vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre colonization in humans.

j infect 2017. available at.

accessed 18 september 2017.davido b batista r fessi h salomon j dinh a. impact of faecal microbiota transplantation to eradicate vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre colonization in humans.

j infect 2017. available at.

accessed 21 july 2017.correspondence b. davido raymond poincare teaching hospital infectious diseases 104 bd raymond poincare garches 92380 france .clinical infectious diseasesr 2017xx001-1c the authors 2017. published by oxford university press for the infectious diseases society of america.

