mycoplasma m. felis m. canadense m. cynos m. gateae m. lipophilum and m. hyopharyngis have also been considered conjunctival commensals which in some circumstances may be involved in conjunctival pathology chlamydophila felis has been identified as an indisputable pathogen of feline conjunctiva.

g. fox c. m. beaucage j. c. murphy and s. m. niemi experimental salmonella-associated conjunctivitis in cats canadian journal of comparative medicine vol.

the presence of s. epider- midis s. pseudintermedius s. aureus s. albus s. haemolyticuss.

das a. v. s. rao s. k. sahu and s. sharma corynebac- terium spp as causative agents of microbial keratitis british journal of ophthalmology vol.

thus its presence in cat conjunctivas can be explained by nursing cats with milk products.it was shown that the 16s rrna gene sequencing can have low strength for the discrimination of species in the genus bacillus 31. in our study the 16s rrna gene sequence homology to bacillus subtilis was 100. moreover isolates assigned to bacillus were previously identified in cats' con- junctivas in our laboratory by microbiological means 19.three genera belonging to actinobacteria were found only in cats with signs of conjunctivitis.

e. shewen r. c. povey and m. r. wilson a survey of the conjunctival flora of clinically normal cats and cats with conjunctivitis.

c. low c. c. powell j. k. veir j. r. hawley and m. r. lappin prevalence of feline herpesvirus 1 chlamydophila felis and mycoplasma spp dna in conjunctival cells collected from cats with and without conjunctivitis american journal of veterinary research vol.

kielbowicz k. ploneczka-janeczko j. bania k. bierowiec and m. kielbowicz characteristics of the bacterial flora in the conjunctival sac of cats from poland journal of small animal practice vol.

deschaght m. janssens m. vaneechoutte and g. wauters psychrobacter isolates of human origin other than psy- chrobacter phenylpyruvicus are predominantly psychrobacter faecalis and psychrobacter pulmonis with emended description of p. faecalis international journal of systematic and evolution- ary microbiology vol.

m. s. chen w. s. j. boardman i. smith a. e. goodman andm.

simulans s. auricularis s. saprophyticus and s. felis has been observed in the conjunctiva by many scientists a second group of frequently isolated microorganisms are hemolytic and nonhemolytic streptococci i.e.

m. janda and s. l. abbott 16s rrna gene sequencing for bacterial identification in the diagnostic laboratory pluses perils and pitfalls journal of clinical microbiology vol.

to the best of our knowledge it is a frontier research in the field of veterinary ophthalmology and a preliminary study linked to our next project concerning next- generation sequencing ngs.materials and methodsconjunctival swabs obtained from three clinically healthy cats with no ocular disorders and from three cats with conjunctivitis symptoms were included in the study.

lilenbaum e. l. c. nunes and m. a. i. azeredo prevalence and antimicrobial susceptibility of staphylococci isolated from the skin surface of clinically normal cats letters in applied microbiology vol.

j. chalker w. m. a. owen c. j. i. paterson and j. brownlie development of a polymerase chain reaction for the detection of mycoplasma felis in domestic cats veterinary microbiology vol.

