alongside the clinical evidence of this association studies ventured to understand the biological mechanism which links the periodontal condition and diabetes.in 2013 in the frame of the efp workshop four comprehensive reviews were published under the title diabetes and periodontal dis- eases.

periodontal infection further potentiates this vi- cious cycle in the susceptible host with diabetes leading to acceler- ated and more severe periodontal destruction.

lipopolysaccharide binding protein was found to significantly higher in diabetes 2 days post-ligaturepossible association infection burden and inflammation in the periodontal tissue were augmented in rats with diabetespossible association expression of lps binding protein in diabetes may indicate hyperresponsiveness to periodontal infectionwu et al.

tlr2 and tlr4 expression in periodontal tissue in rats with diabetescells qrt-pcr flow cytometry.rats immunohistochemistrydiabetes augments expression of tlr2 and tlr4 in periodontal tissue.

there is evidence to support the hypothesisfigure 3 potential mechanisms which enable periodontal intervention to affect diabetes control in diabetes patients with periodontitisthat the above effects are mediated by hyperglycaemia and ages which accumulated in the periodontal tissues.

unfortunately there is no animal data to support this possibility.there is moderate level of evidence from several controlled human studies which show that periodontal treatment may affect the lev- els of circulating mediators that are associated with glucose home- ostasis in dm patients.more human studies are needed to explore the effects of periodon- tal inflammation and periodontal treatment in dm patients.

journal of periodontology 85 140-149. javed f. al-daghri n. m. wang h. l. wang c. y.  al-hezaimi k. 2014. short-term effects of non-surgical periodontal treatment on the gingival crevicular fluid cytokine profiles in sites with induced periodontal defects a study on dogs with and without streptozotocin- induced diabetes.

accepted 2 august 2017 doi 10.1111jcpe.12803o ther an update on the evidence for pathogenic mechanisms that may link periodontitis and diabetesdavid polak  lior shapiradepartment of periodontology hebrew university-hadassah faculty of dental medicine jerusalem israelcorrespondencelior shapira department of periodontology the hebrew university-hadassah faculty of dental medicine jerusalem israel.email 1  introduction the interplay between periodontal disease and diabetes has long been reported with evidence showing complex interactions between these two distinct pathologies.

the results were divided according to the fol- lowing scientific topics a biological plausibility of increase in sever- ity of periodontitis in patients with diabetes b biological plausibility of the effect of periodontitis on diabetes control and c biological plausibility of the effect of treatment of periodontitis on diabetes control.3  results  biological plausibility of increase in severity of periodontitis in patients with diabetesstudies that examined the periodontal status in subjects with diabetes human animals and in vitro models were included.

2013 conclude from table 1 of their review that it is apparent that the presence of diabetes type 1 diabetes mellitus t1dm or type 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm has no significant effect on the composition of the periodontal microbiota.

recent studies that explored the possible association between the composi- tions of the periodontal flora in patients with diabetes using 16s rrna sequencing casarin et al.

2014. still the above data do not provide solid evidence of causal relationship between poorly controlled dm and periodontal microbial dysbiosis and the available date derived from cross-sectional studies.

more recent evidence from human table 1b ani- mal and cell culture table 1c studies strongly suggest that diabetes and hyperglycaemic conditions induced a hyper-inflammatory state in the infected periodontal tissues.

2014. other pro-inflammatory factors and periodontal tissue cell function were also found to be associated with diabetes condi- tion and include substance-p ozturk bilgici odyakmaz  konas 2012 inos shaker ghallab hamdy  sayed 2013 resistin gokhale et al.

2014. taken the above data together the elevated levels of pro-inflammatory factors in the peri- odontal tissues of dm patients may have a role in the observed in- creased periodontal destruction.

