first a clear resemblance between the bacterial abundance pro- files of the sand flies from the gr and uf groups sepa- rated them from the two blood-fed groups the bf and bfi groups.

when considering the predicted g-otus for each of the experimental conditions the uf group harbored the highest number of otus with 57 genera and 14 exclusive zymobacter aquabacterium empedobacter myroide petrimonas sphingobacterium niabella candidatus cloacimonas sporolactobacillus lactobacillus streptomyces lentzea candidatus lum- bricincola and edwardsiella followed by the gr group with 46 genera and 3 exclusive acidovorax plesiomonas and sphaerotilus bfi the infected group with 22 genera 3 exclusive rickettsiella mucispirillum and candidatus cardinium and finally the bf group with 6 genera and none exclusive.

along the cca1 axis the uf and gr groups co-localize and separate from both blood-fed groups bf and bfi groups.

enterobacteriaceae was the most abundant family in the bf and bfi groups and repre- sented 236442 and 393927 hq reads of each group 60.83 and 95.60 respectively.after the blood meal bacterial abundance in terms of the raw reads increased when compared to the uf and gr groups.

in the bfi group the abundance of enterobacteriaceae increased drastically when compared with the rest of the groups additional file table s1.multivariate analyses exploring the underlying bacterial profilesinitially exploratory unconstrained methods were applied to explore how the bacterial abundance profilesat the family taxonomic rank may act as a signature capable of discriminating among the experimental groups under distinct physiological conditions and based on the influence of the inner ecosystem in which they develop.

in addition 30 sand flies from uf bf and bfi groups were dissected under a stereoscope in a biosafety cabinet andseparated into groups according to their physiological condition at the 3rd day after the blood feeding and stored in micro centrifuge tubes at -20 degc for dna extraction.

the ecological correspondence is as follows bf group  xanthomonadaceae bfi group enterobacteriaceae enterococcaceae bacteroidaceae co xiellaceae flameovirgaceae deferribacteraceae glyco- mycetaceae and co-localized uf and gr groups  stre ptococcaceae bacillaceae thermotogaceae actinomyce- taceae planococcaceae neisseriaceae veillonellaceae pseudomonadaceae burkholderiaceae aeromonadaceae staphylococcaceae corynebacteriaceae erysipelotricha- ceae sinobacteraceae lactobacillaceae mycoplasmata- ceae spirochaetaceae geobacteraceae halomonada ceae rikenellaceae propionibacteriaceae alicyclobacil- laceae desulfovibrionaceae brevibacteriaceae chroma- tiaceae rhodocyclaceae moraxellaceae porphyro monadaceae prevotellaceae xanthomonadaceae strep- tomycetaceae actinosynnemataceae comamonadaceaecytophagaceae flavobacteriaceae sphingobacteriaceaeand sporolactobacillaceae.discussionmost studies evaluating the microbiota of phlebotomines have used classical microbiological techniques such as bacterial culture and isolation which are limited in their ability to broadly profile the insect's microbiota since most bacteria have not been cultured to this date our study analyzed the microbiota composition of wild- caught lu.

longipalpis  p. argentipes p. duboscqi p. papatasi p. perfiliewi and p. sergenti  this is the first account of enhydrobacter and chryseobacterium in sand flies genera belonging to the moraxellaceae and flavobacteriaceae families re- spectively whose presence in sand flies was reported re- cently both genera were more abundant in the uf and gr groups than in bf and bfi groups.by exploring the beta diversity both by a ranking method nmds and a constraining method cca we observed that the community composition within the sand fly holobiont is modulated by the type of meal the presence or absence of leishmania parasites and vitello- genesis.

this group was separated according their developing ovaries and verified to confirm the physiological condition and they were stored at -20 degc for downstream dna extraction.dna extractionbefore the dna extraction process each pooled sample consisted of 30 sand flies from each experimental group and was surface sterilized by rinsing with distilled sterile water and then submerged for 1 min in 1 hypochlorite washed three times with pbs  and dissected in a bio- safety cabinet as described above.

to assess whether community homogen- eity alpha-diversity measure was modulated by blood feeding and pathogen presence we used the shannon index  for each sample as it measures the evenness of the bacterial communities.phylogenetic dendrogram visualizationthe phylogenetic relationship between the genus level otus g-otus predicted within the four tested groups was explored for illustrative means using ncbi's tax- onomy browser  i. the generated philip format tree was visualized and edited using the interactive tree of life itol web-based tool .microbial ecology multivariate analysescomparative community diversity analyses were per- formed on the bacterial abundance data matrix to evalu- ate a potential biological pattern or signature profiles discriminating the compared sand fly groups.

in their study acetobacteraceae and entero- bacteriacae were the most abundant families in the blood-fed and infected groups and methylobacteria- ceae microbacteriaceae shingomonadaceae alcaligen- aceae and brucellaceae associated with their tests groups.

this ecological unevenness is reflected concordantly in the trend of the shannon indices estimated for the sand fly groups exposed to blood feeding and is more acute when infective feeding occurred.the genus pseudomonas was the most prevalent in the uf and gr groups and accounted for 76031 and 204688 hq reads.

to further interpret the biological patterns and clustering of the experimental groups we searched for the f-otu correspondence based on their relative abundance with the biological conditions that each group represents.

crossing the taxa indices from each experimental condition a core composed of 6 genera was identified enterobacter serratia stenotrophomonas enhydrobacter pseudomonas and chryseobacterium.in terms of the community homogeneity among the bacterial taxa each of the groups presented the fol- lowing shannon indices uf 1.42 gr 1.12 bf 0.70 and bfi 0.48. the color code used to show the pres- ence or absence of the g-otus in each group fig.

in contrast we did not detect acetobacteraceae in those groups and xanthomonadaceae were the co-dominant f-otu in the blood-fed group.

