1 of 8httpsdoi.org10.1002mbo3.430of the calves drackley 2008. in the united kingdom hay is mainly supplemented for calves at 2-3 weeks of age the calves are also fed on starter and milk to promote rumination increase rumen ph and benefit rumen health and development castells bach  terre 2012 coverdale tyler quigley  brumm 2004 khan weary  von keyserlingk 2011. the above two feeding systems seem to be contradictory.so we have researched on the calves hay supplementation time effect on rumen development and production performance.

the study of oat hay supplementation timing in calves explored the effect of hay supplementation in different periods on the rumen microbiota in calves from a microbial perspective.2  experimental procedures  experimental animals and designwe selected 18 seven-day-old holstein dairy bull calves in similar body condition weighing 42 - 3 kg each.

similarly a previous study has shown that feeding concentrate diets with high levels of fermentable carbohydrates also reduces the rumen ph beharka nagaraja  morrill 1998. this can be related to saliva reflux in the oral cavity of the cattle.5  conclusions hay supplementation time did not affect the diversity of the rumen mi- crobiota in the suckling calves with the condition that supplementation of oat hay from week 2 calves or week 6 on the basis of milk and starter.

solid feed effect on fibrolytic and methanogenic microorganisms number in the gastro- intestinal tract of calves guzman et al.

2016. a consensus on the breeding of calves is to encourage the use of digestible starter in the suckling period.

however whether to supplement the suckling calves with hay remains controversial.

for example most producers in the united states choose to supplement hay for weaning calves mainly fed on milk and starter this is because early feeding of hay will partially replace the feeding of starter and thus affects the rumen developmentthis is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.c 2017 the authors.

our lab- oratory have got the results that the production performance and rumen development were better in the calves with hay supplementa- tion from the second week but the mechanism of it was not clear.

so here we examined the microbiology ecology change and microbiology fermentation on the condition that different calves supplementation of oat hay time which hope to get the microbiology actin in it.

calves were randomly as- signed into three groups with oat hay as the supplement group 1 milk  calf starter ms group 2 milk  calf starter  oat hay with oat hay supplemented from week 2 mso2 and group 3 milk  calf starter  oat hay with oat hay supplemented from week 6 mso6.

calves were provided with clean water commercial starter and im- ported oat hay ad libitum.

the calves were weaned at 9 weeks of age feeding trial then ended.

the feed intake and health condition of the calves were checked regularly in the morning at noon and during the night.

the nutritional ingredi- ents of the hay are shown in table 1.  sample collection and treatment 2.4.1  rumen fluid sampling and analysisrumen fluid samples were collected from the calves at 63 days of age using a rumen fluid collector.

sampling was conducted within 2-3 hr after calves were fed with the starter.

