included among these are all of the major causes of mortality in developed nations including cardiovascular disease most cancers kidney disease and dementias pitt  kaeberlein  kaeberlein .the field of geroscience seeks to understand the biological mechanisms that underlie this relationship between aging and chronic disability and disease sierra  kohanski  kennedy   s.l.

if the goal is to understand mechanisms of oral disease that are particularly important in the elderly even older mice perhaps up to 30 months of age should be used however it is important to consider the differences between pathological changes due to disease progression versus changes associated with nor- mative aging particularly when utilizing animals at advanced ages.

for example people with peri- odontal disease are at higher risk of developing other age-related conditions such as heart disease diabetes and alzheimer's disease razak et al.

httpsdoi.org10.1007s11357-017-0004-9oral health in geroscience animal models and the aging oral cavityjonathan y. an  richard darveau  matt kaeberleinreceived 29 november 2017  accepted 14 december 2017  published online 27 december 2017 american aging association 2017abstract age is the single greatest risk factor for many diseases including oral diseases.

several hallmarks of aging have been identified which represent conserved molecular processes and pathways that contribute to age-related cellular tissue and organismal declines in function lopez-otin et al.. interventions targeting these hallmarks of aging have been developed and found to increase lifespan andreduce age-related diseases in laboratory models kaeberlein et al.

a lack of studies in pre-clinical animal models that take into ac- count the impact of aging may contribute to our limited understanding of the relationships between the hall- marks of aging and oral biology.

thus one poten- tial explanation for the lack of changes observed in the commensal oral bacteria in this study is that the oldest age group studied was really only young adult.in this regard it will be of particular interest going forward to determine how the oral microbiome changes in laboratory mice in response to normal aging and interventions that modulate aging rate.

aging cell 64565-575. nadon nl strong r miller ra nelson j javors m sharp zd peralba jm harrison de 2008 design of aging interven- tion studies the nia interventions testing program.

despite this a majority of preclinical oral health research has not adequately considered the importance of aging in research aimed at the mechanistic understanding of oral disease.

in particular we discuss the relationship between the biology of aging and mech- anisms of oral disease.

these observations have contributed to growing opti- mism that advances in geroscience research can be harnessed to delay the onset and progression of multiple age-associated diseases and improve healthspan outside of a laboratory setting kaeberlein .in contrast to major killers such as heart disease and cancer the relationship between biological aging and oral health has received less attention among the broader biomedical and geroscience research communities.

despite many important discoveries we speculate that progress in understanding the mechanisms of age-associated peri- odontal disease have been hampered by a lack of appro- priately designed preclinical research on oral health in the context of biological aging.

this represents an important opportunity to better understand the role of aging biology in oral health and disease.

mamm genome off j intl mamm genome soc 27279-288 kennedy bk berger sl brunet a campisi j cuervo am epel es franceschi c lithgow gj morimoto ri pessin je rando ta richardson a schadt ee wyss-coray t sierraf 2014 geroscience linking aging to chronic disease.

microbiome 2150. levy g 2007 the relationship of parkinson disease with aging.

