short articlegut microbes egested during bites of infected sand flies augment severity of leishmaniasis via inflammasome-derived il-1bgraphical abstracthighlightsd gut microbes egested by leishmania-infected sand flies prime the host inflammasomed inflammasome-derived il-1b sustains recruitment of neutrophils to bite sitesd giving antibiotics to sand flies before transmission abolishes neutrophil infiltrationd abolishing neutrophil infiltration at bite sites impairsleishmania disseminationauthorsranadhir dey amritanshu b. joshi fabiano oliveira ... hira l. nakhasi jesus g. valenzuela shaden kamhawicorrespondence j.g.v.

donovani.resultsvector-transmitted l. donovani disseminates from the skin to the spleentwenty l. donovani-infected sand flies harboring transmissible infections figure s1a reproducibly transmit about 103-104134 cell host  microbe 23 134-143 january 10 2018 published by elsevier inc.abcisuslglily6gf64 g60402200is us lg liis us lg liis us lg li18hrs24hrs48hrs0is us lg liis us lg liis us lg li3hrs6hrs18hrshcxcl1 ccl2isuslglii3104cxcl1ccl2104104ym1ccl3 ym1 mrc1 ilrn1 ccl17 ccl22 tgfb1103 1022101100103102101100103102101100il10il6 mmp9is us lg li is us lg li is us lg li3hrs6hrs18hrsis us lg li is us lg li is us lg li3hrs6hrs18hrsis us lg li is us lg li is us lg li3hrs6hrs18hrsil1b nos2 tnfa1104il10104 il1b104mmp9 il12ifng il4 il13il180103102101103102101103102101100100100is us lg li is us lg li is us lg liis us lg li is us lg li is us lg liis us lg li is us lg li is us lg li3hrs6hrs18hrs3hrs6hrs18hrs3hrs6hrs18hrsfigure 1. the inflammatory response at the bite site of vector-transmitted l. donovani parasitesparasite burden determined by qpcr in individual mouse ears immediately after exposure to 20 infected sand flies n r 6 mouse ears per experiment.parasite burden in individual mouse spleens was determined by serial dilution at 5 and 30 weeks after exposure to 20 infected sand flies is belonging to the same group or to an intradermal injection of 105 metacyclic parasites li.

importantly tsukamurellais also an indicator species that distinguishes microbiota of in- fected from uninfected midguts .gut microbes of sand flies provide the initial signal for nlrp3 primingto demonstrate that midgut microbes prime the inflammasome we provided sand flies harboring mature infections with a sugar meal containing an antibiotic cocktail for 36 hr after confirming that it has no adverse effect on the growth or differentiation of leishmania parasites in culture figures s3a and b. we then demonstrated the efficacy of antibiotic treatment in vivo through its significant reduction of the number of cultivable gut micro- biota a. we also demonstrated that sand flies givenj mature il-1b and il-10 cytokine levels in cell culture supernatant after in vitro stimulation of bone marrow-derived macrophages with l. donovani ld sta- tionary parasites in the presence or absence of lipopolysaccharide lps.

donovani promastigotes were cultured in schneider's medium gibco-brl ny supplemented with 20 heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum 2 mm l-glutamine 100 uml penicillin and 100 mlml streptomycin at 26oc.sand flies lutzomyia longipalpis sand flies jacobina strain were reared at the laboratory of malaria and vector research niaid nih accord- ing to protocols provided in ''care and maintenance of phlebotomine sand flies'' .methods detailssand fly infectionstwo to four-day-old colony-bred lu.

fully blood-fed female sand flies were separated and maintained at 26oc with 75 humidity and were provided 30 sucrose until the flies developed a mature infection for transmission.antibiotic treatment of sand fliesfor antibiotic treatment of uninfected sand flies females were fed on defibrinated rabbit blood for 3h in the dark.

to demonstrate the egestion of midgut microbes during sand fly bites we exposed infected flies to warmed sterile luria broth lbagar plates for 1 hr movie s1 and allowed the bacteria to grow overnight a. we amplified leishmania dna from eight screened colonies providing us with a definitive guide to bite sites b. we then isolated and sequenced bacte- ria from the leishmania-positive bite sites and from plated midgut colonies of the sand flies c and 3d.

see also table s1.figure 4. diminishing sand fly gut microbiota mitigates inflammasome activation abrogates neutrophil recruitment and compromises dissemination of l. donovani in a-l sand flies harboring mature infections with l. donovani were left untreated is or were provided a cocktail of three antibiotics for 36 hr prior to parasite transmission to mouse ears is  atb.bacterial colony growth on lbagar after plating 10 midguts.antibiotics were similar to controls in their survival b their support of leishmania growth and differentiation to infective metacyclics c the virulence of their midgut-resident metacyclics assessed by their ability to invade and replicate within bmdm d and 4e their feeding behavior  f and their capacity to transmit parasites to mouse ears g.diminishing gut microbiota by antibiotic treatment had a sig- nificant effect on decreasing the il-1b protein level after bites when compared with controls h. additionally protein levels of nlrp3 pro-caspase-1 and cleaved caspase-1 as well as il-1b were reduced in skin exposed to antibiotic-treated sand flies compared with controls i and table s1.

noteworthy a prolonged treatment of uninfected sand flies using a stronger antibiotics cocktail also reduced il1b and nlrp3 mrna expression and il-1b protein levels compared with controls figures s3c and s3d despite unaltered fitness of the flies fig- ures s3e and s3f.

these results provide strong evidence of the role of gut microbes in initiating a potent inflammatory response by their rapid priming of the nlrp3 inflammasome.inflammasome-derived il-1b augments neutrophil recruitment and its absence disrupts the establishment of leishmania infectionto assess the relevance of gut microbiota or inflammasome- derived il-1b to l. donovani infection we used antibiotic-treated sand flies to transmit parasites to mice or treated mice with ana- kinra an il-1r antagonist prior to parasite transmission with untreated infected sand flies k-4n.

we theorize that this early burst of microbe-induced il-1bsurvival of sand flies without red and after antibiotic treatment green.parasite burden and percentage of metacyclics in sand flies prior to transmission.

importantly the significance of vector mi- crobiota likely transcends sand flies and leishmaniasis with anal- ogous ramifications for other vector-borne diseases.starmethodsdetailed methods are provided in the online version of this paper and include the followingd d d b miceb parasitesb sand fliesd b sand fly infectionsb antibiotic treatment of sand fliesb pre-transmission scoringb transmission of l. donovani via sand fly bitesb scoring of blood-fed sand fliesb preparation of sand fly salivary gland homogenateb infection of mice by needle injectionb elisa western blot and co-immunoprecipitation an- alysesb flow cytometry of ear tissue cellsb in vivo blocking of il1bb in vitro measurement of il1b and il-10 in cultures of bone-marrow-derived macrophages bmdmb in vitro invasion of bmdm by gut-residing parasitesb parasite load determination by quantitative pcrb parasite load determination by serial dilutionb reverse-transcriptase quantitative pcrb immunohistochemical and tunel staining of ear tissueb exposure of infected flies to lbagarb plating of midgut microbiotab amplification cloning and sequence identification of bacterial dnab infection of mice by co-injection of leishmania and live bacteria or lpsd b sample sizesb statistical analysissupplemental informationsupplemental information includes four figures two tables and one movie and can be found with this article online at .acknowledgmentswe thank jose' m.c.

animals were randomly assigned to groups exposed to leishmania-infected sand flies uninfected sand flies or chosen for needle injection of parasites with or without salivary glands.

the total parasite load per midgut and percent metacyclics were determined for antibiotic-treated and control sand flies by hemocytometer counts.pre-transmission scoringthe parasite load and percentage of metacyclics per midgut in l. donovani-infected sand flies were scored on the day of transmis- sion.

the parasite burden was quantified from the macerate by limiting dilution assays where the number of viable leishmania parasites in each lymph node or spleen was determined from the highest dilution at which leishmania promastigotes could be grown after 15 days of incubation at 26oc.reverse-transcriptase quantitative pcr mice were euthanized at indicated time points after exposure to infected sand flies non-infected sand flies or after needle injection.

2018 cell host  microbe 23 134-143 january 10 2018 published by elsevier inc. cell host  microbeshort articlegut microbes egested during bites of infected sand flies augment severity of leishmaniasis via inflammasome-derived il-1branadhir deyamritanshu b. joshifabiano oliveiralais pereiraanderson b. guimara es-costatiago d. serafimwaldione de castroiliano v. coutinho-abreuparna bhattacharyashannon townsend hamide aslanalec perkinssubir karmakarnevien ismailmorgan karetnickclaudio menesesrobert duncan hira l. nakhasijesus g. valenzuelaand shaden kamhawi1laboratory of emerging pathogens division of emerging and transfusion transmitted diseases center for biologics evaluation and research food and drug administration silver spring md 20993 usa2vector molecular biology section laboratory of malaria and vector research national institute of allergy and infectious diseases nationalinstitutes of health rockville md 20852 usa3department of molecular microbiology and immunology johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health baltimore md 21205 usa4lead contactcorrespondence j.g.v.

