The bacterial diversi- ty of the water samples collected during the dry season was higher than that in those collected during the wet season.For water samples the highest bacterial species richness was ob- served in the raw-water samples from both seasons.

The proportion of Actinobacteria de- creased initially followed by an increase but Actinobacteria was presentTable 2Bacterial community richness and diversity indices for bulk water samples and biofilm samples in a full-scale drinking water treatment plant.Sample ReadsOTUs Chao1SimpsonShannon index Samples during the wet season13620 58154 - 76800.0071 - 0.0007.18 - 0.16Abbreviations A raw water B grid reaction tank effluent C settling pond effluent D BAC filter effluent E finished water F0 the top GAC samples F30 the bottom GAC sam- ples S the top sand samples.

The BAC biofilm samples mainly comprised Proteobacteria Firmicutes and Planctomycetes  b. Proteobacteria was the largest bacterial group in GAC samples WF0 WF30 DF0 and DF30 whereas phylum Planctomycetes showed the highest relative abundance in sand samples collected during both sea- sons.

Abbreviations A raw water B grid reaction tank effluent C settling pond effluent D BAC filter effluent E finished water F0 the top GAC samples F30 The bottom GAC samples S the top sand samples.and diversity increased after an initial decrease during the wet season whereas the biofilm samples collected during the dry season showed an upward trend.

The largest change observed in the water samples was in the proportion of Firmicutes which showed lower levels in raw-water samples from the wet and dry seasons 1.7 and 2.5 respectively but was highly abundant in finished-water samples from the wet and dry seasons 44.9 and 44.0 respectively.

Abbreviations A raw water B grid reaction tank effluent C settling pond effluent D BAC filter effluent E finished water F0 the top GAC samples F30 The bottom GAC samples S the top sand samples.

Variation in the bacterial adenosine tri-phosphate ATP concentrations a water samples along treatment processes b biofilm samples in the BAC filter during the wet and dry season.

In the biofilm samples Citrobacter Rhodoplanes Pseudomonas and Acinetobacter were the major genus groups in all GAC samples which was consistent with the dominant bacterial groups observed in finished water.

Relative abundances of bacterial community composition phylum level detected in a DWTP bulk water samples b BAC biofilm samples.

The relative abun- dance of Nitrospirae and Planctomycetes in sand samples was higher than that in GAC samples which was supported by variations in nutrient and DO levels associated with the bacterial composition in the drinking water biofilters .

