alterations in the abundance of certain bacterial families have been noted in a number of intestinal diseases and interventions to alter microbial ecology have impacted animal models of some diseases 1. in particular the disruption of an individual's microbiome through fecal microbiota transplantation fmt has provided insights into the role of bacterial families in specific human disease processes 2.irritable bowel syndrome ibs is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder affecting 5-15 of the general population 3. ibs is often associated with comorbid psychosocial disorders such as anxiety or depression 4. although the pathogenesis of ibs is poorly understood several studies have shown that the fecal microbiota of ibs patients differs significantly from that of healthy subjects and it may contribute to the onset and maintenance of the disorder 5-7. this has consequently generated interest in the potential therapeutic role of fmt in the management of ibs.the existing data on fmt and ibs is still quite limited.

a systematic review of the available literature on fmt and ibs showed improvement in ibs symptoms in 58 of patients after fmt 8. although studies have shownan association between altered gut microbiota and several disease processes including ibs the data establishing a clear effect or causality is lacking.in this context de palma et al.

studies of fmt in other settings have shown that the metabolic consequences in the colon of successful fmt may be more important than bacterial abundance 10. an additional useful experiment would be the effect of fmt from healthy patients on physiologic processes in a murine model of ibs.

aimed to evaluate the impact of fecal microbiota from patients with ibs in a murine model 9. they colonized germ-free mice with the fecal content of healthy control individuals or ibs patients with diarrhea ibs-d with or without anxiety.

the fecal microbiota of irritable bowel syndromepatients differs significantly from that of healthy subjects.gastroenterology 200713324-33.tap j derrien m tornblom h et al.

can fecal microbiota transplantation cure irritable bowel syndrome world j gastroenterol 2017234112-20.de palma g lynch md lu j et al.

transplantation of fecal microbiota from patients with irritable bowel syndrome alters gut function and behavior in recipient mice.

analysis of the fecal microbiota of irritable bowel syndrome patients and healthy controls with real-time pcr.

transplantation of fecal microbiota from patients with irritable bowel syndrome alters gut function and behavior in recipient mice.

email provenance this is an invited editorial commissioned by the section editor dr. mingzhu gao department of laboratory medicine wuxi second hospital nanjing medical university wuxi china.comment on de palma g lynch md lu j et al.

gut 200655276-84.rossen ng macdonald jk de vries em et al.

world j gastroenterol 2015215359-71.ford ac moayyedi p lacy be et al.

am j gastroenterol 2014109 suppl 1s2-26 quiz s27.levy rl olden kw naliboff bd et al.

gastroenterology 20061301447-58.kassinen a krogius-kurikka l makivuokko h et al.

gastroenterology 2017152111-23.malinen e rinttila t kajander k et al.

