vb is brined either in a brine bath or by dry salting surface treatment and no other treatment such as the addition of external ri- pening cultures is applied during ripening which last from three to up to 18 months.in a previous study the bacterial and fungal composition of the rind microbiota of vb was assessed by using 16s and 18s rrna cloning and sanger sequencing revealing a high diversity on vb cheese rinds with gram-negative bacteria being particularly abundant  .

the question remained vital how the surface of the brined cheese is influenced by yet uncharacterized microbial communities originating from food-contact and non-food-contact surfaces in the ri- pening cellar.we aimed to characterize the microbial communities present in vb rinds and in environmental surfaces including air filters floors racks shelves and walls from two different ripening cellars from the same cheese production facility to identify shared bacteria between the dif- ferent environments in this dairy plant.material and methodsdairy plant cheese production and samplingfor this study two ripening cellars a2 and a3 in an austrian dairy plant have been sampled in november 2012. cellar a2 contains vb from 0 to 4 months ripening time short-ripening cellar cellar a3 contains vb aged from 4 to 18 months long-ripening cellar.

shannon and chao1 diversity indices showed higher diversity in environmental surfaces from the short-ripening cellar a2 than from the long-ripening cellar a3 overall while long-ripened vb rinds were more diverse than short-ripened vb rinds table s1.analysis of the microbial community composition of the cellars and cheese rindsoverall four different phyla actinobacteria bacteroidetes firmicutes and proteobacteria were identified.

psychroflexus was found in environmental surfaces in this study and on cheese rinds in other recent studies  .no external surface ripening cultures are added during vb produc- tion supporting the formation of an indigenous highly stable house microbiota on vb rinds.

analysis of otus shared between different surfaces suggests that vb rind bacteria are inoculated naturally during the ripening from the processing en- vironment and that cheese surfaces exert selective pressure on these communities as only those bacteria better adapted flourished on vb rinds.

this study analyzed vb processing environment microbiota and its relationship with vb rinds for the first time elucidating that the processing environment and the cheese microbiota should be considered as microbiologically linked ecosystems with the goal of better defining the events that take place during cheese maturation.introductioncheese is one of the oldest fermented foods.

b evidenced that despite the different rind washing conditions that are applied to vb in each cellar the microbial composition of vb rinds is similar.taxonomic assignments of the 50 most abundant otus are shown intable s2 and the relative abundance of the 25 most abundant otusfig.

vb rinds represent a se- lective environment as only certain bacterial groups such asbrevibacterium s. equorum h. boliviensis corynebacterium leucobacterand sphingobacterium seem to be able to flourish although their abundance in short- and long-ripened vb varied.

sphingobacterium was found mainly on long- ripened vb rinds and has been associated with raw milk microbiota and cheese rinds although its functions in cheese ripening are still unknown  .

this study shows for the first time the relationship between cheese rinds and facility-specific microbiota from austrian vorarlberger bergkase and the importance of non-inoculated autochthonous micro- biota dominating vb rinds.

vb undergo different brining treatments in each cellar daily treatment with 20 nacl solution for vb in the short ripening cellar and weekly treatment with 10 nacl solution in the long ri- pening cellar.

here the composition of the bacterial communities present on vb rinds and on different processing surfaces from two ripening cellars was assessed by near full length 16s rrna gene amplification cloning and sequencing.

halomonas was the dominant genus in most samples and was present in all environmental and vb rinds samples except for the shelves of the long ripening cellar.

other proteobacteria such as pseudoalteromonas pseudomonas and psychrobacter were present on environmental surfaces but not in vb rinds.

brevibacterium was the most abundant actino- bacterial genus and dominated vb rinds from both cellars 37.2 and 23.8 in the short- and long-ripening cellar respectively and shelves from the short-ripening cellar 22.2. brevibacterium was present in all the other environments except for the floor from the short-ripening cellar.

