meanwhile the vaginal fungal microbiome in giant pandas have some difference with the reproductive tract of other animals.lactobacillus was present at a low percentage in giant pandas .lactobacilli enables giant pandas to protect against candida vaginal infections as lactobacillus spp protects women from vulvovaginal can- didiasis .according to some statistics information for the births of the giant pandas in january-november 2017 the two giant pandas named gpv11 and gpv13 in thirteen vaginal samples gave birth to two babies respectively.

analysis of the influence of living environment and age on vaginal fungal microbiome in giant pandas ailuropoda melanoleuca by high throughput sequencingdanyu chen caiwu li lan feng zhizhong zhang heming zhang guangyang cheng desheng li guiquan zhang hongning wang yanxi chen mingfu feng chengdong wanghonglin wu linhua deng he ming xin yanga key laboratory of bio-resource and eco-environment of ministry of education animal disease prevention and food safety key laboratory of sichuan province college of life sciences sichuan university chengdu 610065 sichuan pr chinab china conservation and research center for the giant panda wolong sichuan 623006 pr chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords giant pandas vaginalfungal microbiomehigh throughput sequencinga b s t r a c t a recent study has described the normal vaginal bacterial community in giant pandas but there is a lack of knowledge of the fungal community residing in the vagina of giant pandas.

d comparisons of shannon diversity indices among group 1 2 and 3. significant differences in shannon diversity indices between group 2 and group 3 were tested using wilcoxon test p  .05.  means p  .05.conclusionour study analysed vaginal fungal diversity of giant pandas by high- throughput sequencing of the its1 region.

the data derived from each sample was processed consistently and systematically.both alpha and beta diversity calculations were carried out on each sample where alpha diversity refers to the diversity within each sample and beta diversity refers to patterns of similarity and differ- ences between samples.

in order to comprehensively un- derstand the vaginal fungal microbial diversity and abundance in giant pandas high throughput sequencing was used to analyse the its1 region based on thirteen samples taken from the pandas' vaginas which were grouped by sampling points and age.

this therefore highlights the area of research on vaginal fungi diversity in giant pandas ailuropoda melanoleuca as it has largely lacked research to date.the state forestry administration of china reported in the fourth national panda survey that there are 1864 wild pandas and 375 captive giant pandas in china.

although re- search exists on vaginal and uterine bacterial microbiomes in giant pandas there is a lack of data regarding its influence on the colonisa- tion and distribution of vaginal fungal species .

additionally the simpson and shannon indices of diversity showed that gpv 7 had the lowest fungal diversity .vaginal microbial community structures within each subgroup living environments and ages were compared by analysing the dif- ferences between the alpha diversity index groups.

5. box-plot show chao1 species richness indices and shannon indices of diversity of the giant pandas' vaginal fungal communities.

with the saturation of rarefaction curves and fungal diversity indices the samples from dujiangyan and chungking safari park dc group showed a higher fungal species richness and diversity than other living environments.

the comparisons of chao 1 and shannon diversity indices among different sampling points and ages showed that dc has a greater microbial community richness and diversity than wl and bfx  while group 1 have most microbial community richness followed by group 2 and group 3 b.discussiongiant pandas are part of an important 'flagship' species and are threatened by a series of hazards including habitat destructionlogging natural catastrophes and diseases .

among the thirteen vaginal samples of giant pandas only four otus were identified as a common fungal otu including pleosporaceae trichosporonaceae davidiellaceae and cystofilobasidiaceae a. the numbers of otus distributed in each sample based on different sampling points were as follows 714 otus for wl 473 otus for bfx and 477 otus for dc.

5 to 9-year-old giant pandas belonged to group 1.10 to 15-years-old giant pandas were named group 2 and 16-22 years old were group 3.reads were obtained from the thirteen samples.

technolo- gical development from conventional microbiological culture testing to culture-independent have revealed the diversity of fungal members within the vaginal ecosystem and warrant follow-up analysis on these findings including polymerase chain reaction pcr and dna clone libraries as well as high throughput sequencing .

b richness of the vaginal fungal community were compared using chao 1 among group 1 2 and 3. c comparisons of shannon diversity indices among group wl bfx and dc.

