ten fistulated sheep were randomly assigned into a control group n  5 and a treatment group n  5. the treatment group was infused with oligofructose 21 gkg bw by rumen cannula and the control group was sham-treated with saline.

on the 34th day at 0800 h the control group was infused with bacte- ria-free saline at 26.25 mlkg bw through the ruminal fistula the treatment group was infused with 21 g of oligofructose per kilogram of bw through the ruminal fistula thoefner et al.

in addition ruminal lactate con-centrations were immediately increased in sheep after oligofructose infusion and the increase in lactate con- centrations occurred concurrently with a decrease in vfa indicating that ruminal lactate played a key role in the occurrence of acute ruminal acidosis and that the systemic impact of acute acidosis might contribute to induce the laminitis nocek 1997.in the present study our results revealed that the administration of oligofructose strongly altered the composition and structure of the microbiota in the ru- men of sheep as reflected by the clustering of samples using pcoa.

c  the control samples n  5 t  the treatment samples n  5. the control group and the treatment group were clustered together on the pc1 axis.abundance of butyrivibrio p  0.016 ruminococcus p  0.009 and some unclassified groups including unclassified bacteroidales p  0.009 unclassified prevotellaceae p  0.009 unclassified rikenellaceae p  0.009 unclassified christensenellaceae p  0.028 unclassified ruminococcaceae p  0.009 and unclassified lachnospiraceae p  0.028. there was no significant difference p  0.05 in the percent- age of quinella acetitomaculum or succiniclasticum between the 2 groups.at the otu level table 4 otu1650 belong- ing to genus streptococcus and phylum firmicutes was the most abundant otu 48.16 of total se- quences in the oligofructose treatment group whereas otu394 quinella was predominant in the control group.

the ruminal ph was also affected by the sampling hour p  0.001. starting almost 4 h after oligofructose admin- istration and continuing until the sampling at 24 h the average ruminal ph was below 5.0 in the oligofruc- tose treatment group which was lower than that of the control group.

the clinical signs observed in sheep given oligofructose indicate that all animals receiving oligofructose developed laminitis.ruminal fermentation parametersin the current study diurnal data showed that oli- gofructose-treated sheep had a lower ruminal ph com- pared with the control group p  0.001 fig.

in the current study the reason the relative expression of mt1-mmp declined in the oligofructose treatment group was not clear and requires further investigation.conclusionin conclusion the current study showed that oli- gofructose overload altered ruminal fermentation and microbiota especially causing an increase in the rela- tive abundance of lactobacillus and streptococcus and led to lactate accumulation and a lower ruminal ph.

compared with the control group oligofructose5414li et al.figure 4. estimated microbial diversity in the control  n  5 and oligofructose treatment groups  n  5. the observed abundance-based coverage estimator ace index a shannon index b or chao index c or operational taxonomic unit otu numbers d for the control and the oligofructose treatment group are shown.

the committee reviewed and approved the experiment and all procedures performed in the present study.animal and experimental designa group of 10 male hu sheep 30.55 - 0.90 kg bw fitted with permanent ruminal fistulae were used in this experiment.

to compare the structure of the bacterial community across all samples the unweighted5412li et al.figure 1. diurnal variation of ruminal ph and the concentration of lactic acid in the rumen fluid of the control  n  5 and the oligofructose treat-ment groups  n  5. the value is depicted as means - sem n  5. a the dynamic change of ph value over 48 h after administration oligofructose.b the ruminal lactic acid concentration change over 48 h after oligofructose administration.figure 2. diurnal variation of the concentration of acetate propionate butyrate valerate isobytyrate isovalerate and total vfa as well as acetate-to-propionate ratio in the rumen fluid of the control  n  5 and the oligofructose treatment groups  n  5. the value is depicted as means - sem n  5.acute laminitis and rumen microbiota5413table 3. effects of oligofructose oligo overload on average relative abundance1 of phylum level  of total sequences in rumen contentabundance 1values are represented by means n  5.unifrac metric was used to assess b-diversity.

2016 and a decrease in these organ- isms in the rumen of sheep that received oligofructose administration may be linked with the lower ruminal ph because it is known that these fiber-degrading bacteria are sensitive to low ph russell and wilson 1996.currently the widely accepted hypothesis on lami- nitis occurrence is that laminitis is caused by reducedblood flow to the lamellae with the subsequent necrosis resulting in lamellar hypoxia thereby initiating the de- velopment of laminitis coffman et al.

these sheep alsoacute laminitis and rumen microbiota5411table 2. primers for sequences and gene identifier id for all gene transcripts analyzed by quantitative real-time pcr1il-1b  interleukin-1 beta il-6  interleukin-6 il-10  interleukin-10 tnf-a  tumor necrosis factor alpha ifn-g  interferon-gamma mmp-2  matrix metalloproteinase-2 mmp-9  matrix metalloproteinase-9 timp-1  tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 mt1-mmp  membrane type-1 matrix metalloproteinase enzyme.2f  forward r  reverse.developed lameness and roach back due to foot pain by 12 to 24 h after oligofructose administration whereas the control sheep did not and the lameness in these sheep did not resolve at any time before slaughter after the onset of the challenge.

when the sheep developed an arched back or the gait was described as one deliberate step at a time the sheep was defined as lame sprecher et al.

streptococcus and lactobacillus belonging to the phylum firmicutes were the predomi- nant amylolytic amylodextrin- and maltose-utilizing bacteria in the rumen of sheep and these species could rapidly proliferate by utilizing starch or soluble sugars and then produce lactate nagaraja and titgemeyer 2007.5416li et al.table 4. effects of oligofructose oligo overload on average relative abundance of top 30 operational taxonomicunits otu  of total sequences in rumen content1abundance 1values are represented by means n  5.2id  identifier.therefore in the present study the accumulation of ru- minal lactate in sheep that received oligofructose admin- istration may be the result of an increase in the proportion of genera streptococcus and lactobacillus.

quantitative real-time pcr results showed that compared with the control group the mrna expression of membrane-type metalloproteinase-1 p  0.049 was downregulated whereas the expres- sion of proinflammatory il-6 p  0.004 and matrix metalloprotease-9 p  0.037 was upregulated in the lamellar tissues of the oligofructose treatment group.

