neverthe- less it has been suggested that non typical bacterial species and some herpesviruses might also cooper- ate to accelerate disease progression and its suscep- tibility to periodontal treatments 6 7 9 11 16 1719 22 38.the role of herpesviruses in the etiopathogenesis of periodontal diseases is still the object of discussion and different herpesviruses have been detected withvariable prevalence in a number of different studies starting to be published about three decades ago.large part of these studies evidenced that hsv-1 ebv and cmv are detected with high prevalence in periodontal lesions that they directly infect gingival epithelial cells and that viral loads positively correlate with disease severity 11-13 16-21.although some recently published studies failed to find any association between aggressive periodontitis and the presence of herpesviruses 14 or detected the three viruses at very low levels and suggested that their detection could possibly be the conse- quence of contamination by blood or saliva or of lym- phoid cells 15 available data considered altogether suggest that human herpesviruses probably play a relevant role in both chronic and aggressive peri- odontitis 12-16 and that differences can in large part be explained on the basis of geographical and ethnic variability 22.in a critical review of the literature that was published recently slots evidenced that the possibility to corre- late the presence of herpesviruses with periodontal disease progression is biased by the fact that in most studies sampling was performed regardless of dis- ease activity.recently we demonstrated that subjects affected by periodontal diseases show higher prevalence of s. aureus in their oral microbiota and that they common- ly host highly toxigenic strains of such an opportunis- tic pathogen 9.moreover we showed that the isolation of s. aureus from subgingival sites of gap correlates with disease progression.having cumulatively considered the above observa- tions data on composition of the subgingival micro- biota of gap and data on detection of herpesviruses from subgingival sites of gap we designed the pre- sent study to characterize the subgingival microbiota of as of gap and to correlate microbial patterns found in these sites with the presenceabsence of herpesviruses.to this purpose one as and one n-as were selected in a population of subjects affected by gap.

in some patients progression of periodontitis is characterized by shortened periods of remission leading to a clini- cal presentation called aggressive periodontitis that can be either generalized or localized 1-3. the rea- sons leading some patients to undergo generalized aggressive periodontitis gap are poorly under- stood and no definite useful molecular or microbio- logical markers or predictors of disease progression have been identified yet 4 5. recent reports sug- gest moreover that atypical pathogens are frequently associated with progression of periodontal lesions and resistance to conventional treatments in aggres- sive periodontitis and have disclosed interesting as- sociations 6 7. these atypical pathogens including staphylococcus aureus pseudomonas aeruginosa and different members of the family enterobacteri- aceae are known to possess virulence factors that could account for the accelerated tissue destruction characterizing gap.recent studies by our group have shown higher staphylococcus aureus oral carriage rates in peri- odontitis affected patients as compared to healthy controls 8. moreover we showed that isolation of s. aureus from subgingival sites of gap positively corre- lates with disease progression with higher levels of inflammatory mediators and with faster periodontal breakdown 9.subgingival isolates of s. aureus from active sites of gap were shown to possess a set of genes encoding for pathogenicity and virulence factors 9 which are already known to be involved in the pathogenesis of a variety of severe staphylococcal infections 10.among factors potentially able to trigger and amplifytissue destruction in gap co-infection by different herpesviruses has been given wide consideration in the last decades.studies started about three decades ago have shown that hsv-1 ebv and cmv are detected with high prevalence and at high copy counts in progressive periodontal diseases 11-13.association and immunologic studies have provided a solid base of evidence supporting a periodontopathic role of herpesviruses although at present the specif- ic molecular and cellular mechanisms which enable these viruses to exacerbate periodontitis are still to be clarified.in a recent review of the literature slots in summariz- ing results from studies performed by different groups in different countries evidenced that mean percent- ages of sites of aggressive periodontitis reported to be positive for detection of herpesviruses are 49 for cmv 45 for ebv and 63 for hsv 11. a detailed analysis of available data evidenced the existence of significant differences among published studies and a possible bias coming from the fact that in most stud- ies sampling was performed regardless of disease activity.in a recent report stein et al.

1 substantially con- firmed previous observations by other authors and reinforced evidence of the role played by certain known periodontopathogens and atypical pathogens namely s. aureus in our study in the progression of lesions of gap 4-7 9.data presented here confirm previous reports and suggest that the presence of herpesviruses affects composition of the subgingival biofilm in gap and prevalence of certain periodontopathogens 22.moreover they show that virus specific microbial pat- terns characterize both as and n-as and that during active progression of lesions the prevalence of cer- tain bacterial species in the subgingival biofilm changes in a virus specific manner.to our knowledge this is the first investigation aiming to characterize microbial patterns associated with ac- tive progression of lesions of gap and to evaluate at the same time if the presenceabsence of three species of herpesviruses is associated with specific microbial patterns.in order to disclose specific microbial patterns associ- ated with the presenceabsence of each of the three herpesviruses and with active progression of lesions required an articulated analysis of data in which the relative frequencies of the searched bacterial species were evaluated considering the potential influence of general variables age gender hygienic skills reac-tivity of the host local anatomy and specific vari- ables co-variation of groups of inter-related bacterial species 34.consequently data obtained by ckb from subgingival biofilm samples of as divided according to positivi- tynegativity for detection of hsv-1 ebv or cmv were preliminary analyzed by cfa to disclose the ex- istence of bacterial taxa whose relative frequencies varied among samples in an inter-correlated manner.

found that 40 and 12 of periodontitis sites were positive respectively for ebv and cmv although viral loads were close to detection limits 15. consequently they considered a role for these viruses in the pathogenesis of periodontal lesions un- likely and possibly only the consequence of contam- ination by blood or saliva or of an accumulation of lymphoid cells harbouring viruses in the inflamed tis- sue.on the other hand many other authors found a posi- tive correlation between detection of herpesviruses and severity and progression of periodontal lesions of both chronic and aggressive periodontitis 11 16-19. histomolecular analyses demonstrated that gingival epithelial cells of periodontitis affected sites are fre- quently infected by one or more herpesviruses and that viral loads positively correlate with disease severity 20 21.overall experimental data collected by different re- search groups in different geographical areas sug- gest that human herpesviruses could play a relevant role in both chronic and aggressive periodontitis 12- 16 although some authors hypothesize that the prevalence of hsv cmv and ebv in periodontal le- sions could vary also on a geographical and ethnic base 22.it is well known that many viruses are able to act as strong promoters of bacterial pathogenicity and viru- lence thus facilitating the onset and progression of acute aggressive infections in many districts of the human body 23-25. it is consequently conceivable that as a consequence of specific molecular mecha- nisms of cooperation co-infection by different her-pesviruses can influence the qualitative and quantita- tive composition of subgingival plaque and play a role in the progression of lesions in gap.the present study was consequently designed as an observational study aimed to characterize the subgin- gival microbiota of active sites of gap and to corre- late microbial patterns with the presenceabsence of three species of herpesviruses.materials and methodsstudied population and samplespatients with a clinical diagnosis of gap 1 and with at least one active site were selected for the present observational study as described previously 9. briefly microbiological samples were obtained from subjects attending 12 private dental practices for peri- odontal problems.all patients were recruited from structures located in highly urbanized areas genua brescia piacenza savona milan and consisted prevalently of subjects with high school or university degrees.

polymorphum and inversely associ- ated with that of p. gingivalis t. forsythia and f. peri- odonticum iii coinfection by hsv-1 is directly asso- ciated with a higher prevalence of p. gingivalis t. for- sythia f. periodonticum and s. aureus and inversely associated with that of a. actinomycetemcomitans e. nodatum p. intermedia and p. nigrescens.the observation that changes in the subgingival biofilm are virus specific suggests that they cannot be explained simply by the immunosuppressive effect of herpesviruses and are probably consequence of spe- cific mechanisms of cooperation between each of the 3 viruses and some bacterial species.the existence of cooperative interactions involving different viruses and bacterial species including s. aureus is well known and can depend on different cellular and molecular mechanisms 23-25. coopera- tive interactions have also been demonstrated be- tween cmv and a. actinomycetemcomitans and are possibly involved in the pathogenesis of periodontal disease 39.the existence of these associations certainly results from complex cooperative interactions and inter-rela- tions among these species that have been already described previously and possibly from the impact of virus infection on the subgingival environment on the concentration of factors of inflammation on local im-munity on the expression of proteins at the surface of epithelial cells and on the expression of adhesins and toxins by microorganisms 28 40-43.recent researches showed that polymicrobial syner- gy can occur during infection and that these interac- tions can affect health and disease 44.the high prevalence of s. aureus in hsv-1 sites and its correlation to lesion activity deserves consid- eration.

the analyzed sites were conse- quently distinguished in four groups according to pos- itivity for detection of hsv-1 ebv cmv or negativity for herpesviruses hhv-.adoption of standard pcr methods and the fact that only two samples were analyzed from each subject could account for the relatively low number of sites that resulted positive for herpesviruses as comparedto data reported in other studies 11 15 16 19 22. the fact that we found full correspondence with re- gard to positivitynegativity for detection of viruses between experimental as and control sites n-as is not surprising nor in contrast with previous studies in which experimental diseased sites were compared to control healthy sites demonstrating the existence of significant differences in viral loads between the two groups 11 15-17 19-22.analysis of clinical data of patients aggregated ac- cording to positivitynegativity for detection of each of the three searched viruses evidenced that the four groups were comparable with regard to age and gen- der.

the association between each single factor and ebv cmv or hsv-1 adjusted for individual characteristics and clinical indices was explored with logistic regres- sion analysis.those factors resulting more strongly associated with ebv cmv or hsv-1 were chosen for multiple logis- tic regression analysis.such an analytical process of microbiological and clinical data was able to return reliable information on bacterial species that are significantly associated with the three viruses and how.this information can be summarized as follows i coinfection by ebv is directly associated with a high- er prevalence of a. actinomycetemcomitans and in- versely associated with that of p. gingivalis t. for- sythia and f. periodonticum ii coinfection by cmv is directly associated with a higher prevalence of a. actinomycetemcomitans v. parvula p. micra and f. nucleatum subsp.

4.multiple logistic regression analysis showed that 1 factor 8 was the only one being significantly and in- versely associated with ebv 2 factor 11 was signifi- cantly and directly associated with cmv while factors 5 and 8 were significantly and inversely associated with cmv 3 factor 8 was significantly and directly associated with hsv-1 while factors 1 and 10 were significantly and inversely associated with hsv-1 tab.

these tests suggest that the variables in- cluded in the regression models were highly predic- tive.following validation analysis factors 2 and 4 were no longer associated with ebv factor 5 was no longer associated with cmv and factor 10 was no longerfigure 2. mean percentage -standard deviation of the total dna probe count of the 40 test species in subgingival biofilm samples from 165 as of generalized aggressive periodontitis distinguished according to positivity for detection of hsv-1 hsv ebv ebv cmv cmv or no herpesvirus hhv- specific sequences.

microbiological samples were obtained from active as and non-active n-as sites in 165 subjects affected by gap and were analyzed for 40 bacterial species by the checkerboard dna-dna hybridization technique and for herpes simplex 1 hsv-1 human cytomegalovirus cmv and epstein bar virus ebv by pcr.

peri- odontal sites showing a significant increase in both ppd and gbi between t0 and t45 were considered as active sites as and were distinguished from non- active sites n-as.vpi and gbi were evaluated separately at the four main aspects of each tooth while ppd was evaluated at six sites for each tooth using a michigan periodon- tal probe with williams markings.enrolment in the study was confirmed upon detection of at least one as between t0 and t45.each patient was examined at t0 and t45 by the same examiner.all clinical evaluations were performed separately by two experienced clinicians p.g.

microbiological data suggest that herpesviruses are probably not mere spectators of disease progression and that specific patterns of subgingival plaque are correlated with the presence of different herpesviruses.key words generalized aggressive periodontitis herpesviruses microbiota disease progression.introductionperiodontitis is a group of infectious disorders char- acterized by inflammation affecting periodontal tis- sues and causing an inconstant episodic progression in breakdown of the teeth-supporting tissues.

attention was dedicated at selecting two sites that differed al- most only with regard to activity of the lesion basing on a protocol of repeated clinical examination extend- ing over a period of 3 months the time interval of 45 days was found as the most appropriate to detect ac- tively progressing sites in the studied population 9. two samples of subgingival biofilm were obtained from each selected site.one sample for each studied site was processed to detect the presence of hsv-1 ebv or cmv by stan- dard pcr methods.

2.characterization of subgingival biofilmthe quantitative detection of 40 bacterial species in subgingival biofilm samples by the ckb technique as expected showed the existence of several significant differences between as and n-as fig.

these data suggest that at least cmv and hsv-1 are not mere spectators of the pro- gression of gap lesions.the second sample from each studied site was used to analyze composition of the subgingival biofilm by means of a modified ckb technique 28 29 main modifications regarded inclusion in the panel of an s. aureus specific probe and column purification of metagenomic dna instead of simple alkaline lysis in order to obtain more efficient dna extraction from gram positives and to reduce interference due to mi- crobial proteins in crude lysates.the comparative semiquantitative analysis of the metagenome from subgingival biofilm samples ob- tained from as and n-as fig.

