Using a test cutoff derived from an expected 18 chance of find- ing cancer on repeat biopsy they found that their test had a negative predictive value of 91 and 96 for the detection of any cancer and Gleason 7 cancer respectively.These studies represent exciting inroads to developing and refining the next generation of prostate can- cer biomarkers.

At the 2017 AUA conference there were multiple studies of prostate cancer diagnostic biomarkers including many novel markers.Urine-based TestsThere are several urine-based bio- markers currently in use includ- ing prostate cancer antigen 3 PCA3 messenger RNA mRNA5 TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion and the panel SelectMDx MDxHealth Irvine CA which measures mRNA of the genes HOXC7 DLX1 and KLK3.6 Additionally thereareseveral multimarker panels that have been introduced in recent years includ- ing ExoDx Prostate Intelliscore Exosome Diagnostics Cambridge MA includes exosomal RNA for ERG PCA3 and SPDEF and the Michigan Prostate Score MiPS includes PCA3 and TMPRSS2-ERG mRNA and serum PSA.6At the 2017 AUA meeting Lebastchi and colleagues7 reported their clinical experience with the MiPS.

They assessed those concen- trations across four groups n540 for each men without prostate cancer and men with Gleason 6 Gleason 8 or metastatic prostate cancer.

They found that MiPS scores were higher among those who underwent biopsy ver- sus those who did not and among those who had cancer on biopsy compared with those who had a negative biopsy result.In a case-control study Prophet and colleagues8 assessed urinary concentrations of three differ- ent proteins previously identified to have different expression pat- terns across prostate cancer stages TIMP1 serpinB1 and semenoge- lin2.

When those two proteins and fPSA were combined they reached an AUC of 0.85.Taking an immunologic-based approach to cancer diagno- sis Freedland and coworkers19 measured levels of 21 different autoantibodies against prostate cancer-derived peptides in order to predict the presence of cancer at ini- tial biopsy.

In 268 men they found that the autoantibody panel when combined with PSA and age had an AUC of 0.73 and 0.74 for the diag- nosis of any prostate cancer and Gleason score 7 cancer respec- tively.

The single- parameter structure-based IsoPSA assay demonstrates improved diagnostic accuracy for detection of any pros- tate cancer and high-grade prostate cancer compared to a concentration-based assay of total prostate-specific antigen a preliminary report published online April 7 2017.

Chancellor MD Beaumont Health System Royal Oak MI Sasha C. Druskin MD The James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions Baltimore MD J. Curtis Nickel MD FRCSC Queen's University Kingston Ontario Canada Alan W. Partin MD PhD The James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions Baltimore MD Ellen Shapiro MD FACS FAAP NYU Langone Medical Center New York NY.an enormous volume of information from this pre- mier source and present the findings that are most relevant to the practicing urologist.Biomarkers for the Early Detection of Prostate CancerDiagnosis of prostate cancer is generally made by biopsy which is prompted by elevated prostate- specific antigen PSA levels andor abnormal digi- tal rectal examination findings.12 However PSA has poor performance for the detection of can- cer34 which has led to difficulty in determining who is at the greatest risk for the disease and thus who will most likely benefit from prostate biopsy.

They used their assay to measure the ratio of S23PSA to free PSA in 103 patients with biopsy-proven prostate cancer and 50 patients with negative prostate biopsy results.

They found that their test would allow for 24.4 fewer biopsies at the cost of missing 4.9 of Gleason score 7 disease.Alekseev and colleagues20 mea- sured plasma microRNAs in 188 patients with biopsy-confirmed prostate cancer and 57 patients without a concern for prostate can- cer.

