biofilm total cell concentration biofilm tcc measured with fcm ranged from 4.1 104e5.8 108 cellscm2 a. other measures of biofilm concentration including intact cells and adenosine tri-phosphate correlated well with biofilm tcc spearman's r 0.95 and 0.87 respectively p  .001 fig.

s2.the biofilm surface concentration hereafter biofilm concen- tration was measured using the biofilm suspension from the 90- cm section of hose.

the hose with the highest relative abundance of mycobacterium 35 only had the 17th highest concentration by calculated absolute abun- dance 5.9 105 cellscm2 because biofilm tcc was low.when legionella was detected biofilm tcc was significantly higher kruskal-wallis p  .001 a indicating that legionella is more likely to be found with a higher biofilm tcc.

there was also a significant positive correlation between the relative abundance of legionella and biofilm tcc spearman's r 0.36 p  .001. how- ever for mycobacterium and pseudomonas detection was associated with reduced biofilm tcc kruskal-wallis p .06 and .001 respectively d and e. biofilm tcc was not a predictor for detection of l. pneumophila m. avium or v. vermiformis bcf which may have been caused by the relatively few detects of these species with qpcr.controlled studysurprisingly cold influent water was consistently positive for low concentrations of legionella 1212 mycobacterium 1212 and pseudomonas 1112. biofilms were more sporadically positive for these genera legionella 615 mycobacterium 715 and pseu- domonas 1315. of all investigated water types the highest calculated absolute abundances of these three genera were found in the stagnant water samples 6.8 103 6.9 103 and6.2 102 cellsml respectively for legionella mycobacterium and pseudomonas and these maximums corresponded with detection of the genera in the respective biofilms.discussionfig.

while some genera that may contain potential opportunistic pathogens legionella detected in 2178 shower hoses were positively correlated with biofilm cell concentration others mycobacterium pseudomonas had surprisingly non- existent or negative correlations with biofilm cell concentrations.

shower hose age was related to metal accumulation but not biofilm cell concentration while frequency of use appeared to influence biofilm cell concentration.

water tcc was used directly cellsml and biofilm tcc was calculated using the hose surface area cellscm2.elemental analysishomogenized 100 ml aliquots of the biofilm suspensions were acid-digested in 4 ml concentrated ultrapure hno3 carl roth gmbh karlsruhe germany and 1 ml ultrapure concentrated hydrogen peroxide sigma-aldrich buchs switzerland in 15 ml teflon-tetrafluormetoxil ptfe-tfm tubes in an mls ultraclave 4 milestone inc. shelton usa at 230 oc and 130 bar for 35 min.subsequently digestates were diluted 10-fold with ultrapure deionised water.

when comparing biofilm tcc between countries that used disinfectant belgium latvia portugal serbia uk and us n 39 and those that did not denmark germany south africa spain and switzerland n 39 biofilm tcc was significantly higher without disinfectant p  .001 kruskal-wallis a. this dichotomous classification for disinfectant usenon-use does not take disinfec- tant concentration or type into account.

while water quality did not correlate well with biofilm tcc data not shown biofilm tcc correlated positivelywith the frequency of use pearson's r 14 0.72 p 14 .004 table s8.metals accumulate in biofilmsglobal surveycolor was notably variable across biofilms e.g.

2. biofilm total cell concentration biofilm tcc a and number of observed operational taxonomical units otus b of shower hoses grouped by use of disin- fectant red or lack of disinfectant blue.

this measure of diversity correlated significantly but weakly with biofilm tcc spearman's r 0.28 p .01 and was lower amongst biofilms in countries that use disinfectant p .01 kruskal-wallis b.some similarities could be seen in biofilm microbiome compo- sitions from the same country a but the origin of the hose country only explained 24 of variation in microbiome compo- sition adonis p  .001. the use of disinfectant was not a useful parameter for explaining microbiome composition 4 explained by disinfectant use adonis p  .001 b.the most abundant otus may have driven some of these vari- ations with the sum of the top ten otus accounting for 3e41 of individual microbiomes.

although a literature comparison of biofilm data is complicated by differences in sampling and analysis methods  our study indicates that biofilm tcc tends to be higher on shower hoses average 107 cellscm2 than on hard pipe materials typically used in building drinking water plumbing copper and pex pipes5.7 105 cellscm2  or drinking water plumbing simulators pe-xc 2 106 cellscm2  .

for interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.stochastic immigration to the biofilm diversity in the meta- community in this case the influent water would be reflected in the biofilm microbiome .

lack of stronger cor- relation to biofilm composition may be due tothe fact thatexact type and concentration of disinfectant were not known in this study.shower hose material quality is a problematic unknownthe amount and type of carbon leaching from plastic pipe ma- terials is critical for determining biofilm concentration and composition .

the hose with the most biofilm 5.8 108 cellscm2 was only installed for one year and tcc was often higher in the younger biofilms during the controlled study a. a lack of correlation between age and biofilm concentration has been observed before  and may be explained by a growth plateau that is reached quickly after fast exhaustion of easily available and leachable carbon  .specific use patterns affect biofilmsfrequency of use has previously been shown to affect tap- specific colonization of opportunistic pathogens   and microbiomes in a model hot water distribution system .

