the relative abundance of bacterial communities at the family level did not differ among experimental groups supplemental table 3. the relative abundance of the top30 genera bacteria community were analyzed figure 2c and their relative abundance were higher than 1 at least 1 treatment group supplemental table 4. the population of lachnospiraceaenk4a136group in cb treatment 1.29 was higher than con 0.92 and fcb 0.26 groups p  0.05. the relative abundance of norankfprevotellaceae was higher in fcb group 1.47 compared to con 0.69 and cb 0.64 groups p  0.05. in addition pigs fed con diet 2.24 had higher abundance of rikenellaceaerc9gutgroup compared to cb 1.61 and fcb 1.17 treatments p  0.05.scfas in fecal sampleslactic acid was not detected in the majority of fecal samples and the scfas including acetate priopinate isobutyrate butyrate isovalerate and valerate were not affected by the cb or fcb dietary treatments table 4 which suggested that scfas themicrobial metabolites may not mediate the effects of dietary cb or fcb.discussionthis study was performed to compare the effect of cb and fcb inclusion on growth performance nutrient digestibility and gut microbiota composition in finishing pigs.

the contents of arabinose xylose and glucose in fcb were increased 50 39 and 23 respectively.table 1  composition of corn bran cb and fermented cb fcb gkg dm basis1.itemscbfcb1 sdf soluble dietary fiber idf insoluble dietary fiber nsp non-starch polysaccharides.growth performance and nutrient digestibilitythere were no differences in adfi adg and fcr among the dietary treatments table 2 which indicated that there are no effect on growth performance when treated by dietary cb and fcb.

the abundance of lachnospiraceaenk4a136group in cb treatment was higher than con and fcb groups p  0.05 whereas the population of norankfprevotellaceae was higher in fcb group compared to con and cb groups p  0.05. in conclusion dietary fcb decreased the abundance of bacterial communities particularly the population of bacteria related to cellulolytic degradation.keywords bacillus subtilis cellulolytic bacteria corn bran dietary fiber fermentation gut microbiotaintroductionthe consumption of dietary fiber plays an essential role in maintaining homeostasis of the gut ecosystem.

the studydetected fibrobacteres phylum which is associated with cellulolytic bacteria and there was no difference between treatments where relative abundance in con cb and fcb groups was 0.04 0.13 and 0.09 respectively supplementaltable 2  effects of dietary corn bran cb and fermented cb fcb on growth performance of finishing pigs1.

a total of 60 finishing pigs were allocated to 3 dietary treatments consisting of a control con diet a 10 cb diet and a 10 fermented cb fcb diet in a 21 d feeding trial.

the final moisture content of fcb was 30 according to method 930.15 aoac international 2007. samples of cb and fcb were collected for chemical analysis including starch crude protein cellulose hemicellulose lignin soluble dietary fiber insoluble dietary fiber and non-starch polysaccharide.animals diet treatments and samplingfinishing pigs n  60 duroc x landrance x yorkshire 135 - 1 d age 65.73 - 0.7 kg body weight were allocated randomly to 3 groups balancing for litter and gender.

1999.insoluble and soluble dietary fiber content of cb and fcb were analyzed according to method 991.43 aoac international 2007 using the ankom tdf dietary fiber analyzer ankom technology usa.

there was no effect of dietary treatment on digestibility of other measured nutrients.bacterial community richness and biodiversitythere were 818 817 and 787 operational taxonomic units otus obtained from pigs fed con cb and fcb dietary treatments respectively of which 764 were common otus among 3 experimental groups figure 1a.

the a-diversity index of chao 1 in the fcb group was lower compared to the con group p  0.05 and the shannon index was not affected by dietary treatments figures 1bc.fifteen distinct phylum were identified in feces of finishing pigs fed different cb supplementations supplemental table 2 where firmicutes and bacteroidetes accounted for94 within all dietary treatments figure 2a.

con control group adfi average daily feed intake adg average daily gain fcr feed conversion ratio.table 3  effect of dietary corn bran cb and fermented cb fcb on nutrient digestibility of finishing pigs1.1 fecal samples from 1 pig per pen n  5 pigs per treatment performed for nutrient digestibility in a 21 d feeding trial.

addition to firmicutes and bacteroidetes phylum there were 13 other phylum detectedtable 4  effect of dietary corn bran cb and fermented cb fcb on short-chain fatty acids concentrations in feces of finishing pigs1.1 fecal samples from at least 1 pig per pen n  7 pigs per treatment were performed for scfas analysis in a 21 d feeding trial data were presented as mean values - sems.

this study was conducted to investigate the effects of dietary corn bran cb fermented by b. subtilis on growth performance and gut microbiota composition in finishing pigs.

the dietary cb and fcb did not affect growth performance of finishing pigs.

the digestibility of organic matter was decreased in both cb and fcb treatments compared with con group p  0.05. the a-diversity for bacterial community analysis of chao 1 in fcb treatment was lower than con treatment p  0.05. the fibrobacteres phylum belongs to cellulolytic bacteria was isolated and their relative abundance in cb group showed no difference between con and fcb treatments.

2016. however the effect of dietary cb fermented by b. subtilis in pigs has not been reported.

