he made three conclusions about his speech i the progression of liver disease especially chronic liver disease was dependent on gut microbiota ii leaky gut is believed to be the key promoter for liver injury development iii inflammation was the main mediator for the regulation of gut permeability by the dysbiosis.on behalf of dr. hani el-nezami who is a professor from institute of public health clinical nutrition in university of eastern finland dr. murphy lam yim wan a postdoctoral researcher from university of hong kong came up with that i probiotic reduce the tumor growth446huang and chen.

afterhepatobiliary surgery and nutrition vol 6 no 6 december 2017445the presentation experts agreed that there are still a lot to study about the trf and it needs joint efforts figure 3.microbiome and liver diseasefigure 2 prof. yilei mao a and prof. bengt jeppsson b.figure 3 mr. bowen zhao a dr. dandan hu b and dr. wu ping c.hosted by prof. j. michael millis professor of surgery in university of chicago medicine the second session highlighted the relationship between microbiome and liver diseases.

she concluded that more metagenomics and metabolomics studies of microbiota from patients with chronic liver diseases and hcc are needed.then prof. simon c. robson from harvard medical school and beth israel deaconess medical center shared his opinions on purinergic signaling and the microbiome in gastrointestinal and liver disease.

the liver microbiome and academic skills workshopand inhibit angiogenesis in mouse ii the anti-angiogenesis in tumor is related to reduced th17 and angiogenesis factorsgut microbiota were reshaped by probiotic intakethe polarization of the gut microbial community in both taxonomy and functional aspects are towards scfa producing and hence reduce th17 differentiation figure 5.difficult malignant liver diseasefigure 4 prof. jamila faivre a and prof. simon c. robson b.figure 5 dr. sara gaines a dr. murphy lam yim wan b and prof. peng chen c.on the second day the workshop started with a keynote speech by prof. timothy pawlik from wexner medical center at the ohio state university.

 newsdream big and keep moving--the liver microbiome and academic skills workshop cosponsored by hepatobiliary surgery and nutrition and ame publishing companylucia huang wymen cheneditorial office hepatobiliary surgery and nutrition guangzhou 510120 chinacorrespondence to lucia huang and wymen chen.

it's a lovely autumn day when the liver microbiome and academic skills workshop was successfully inaugurated.

the workshop was divided into four sessions focusing on microbiome liver diseases and academic writing skills.

dozens of experts from home and abroad attended the brilliant workshop and shared their unique experience figure 1.the microbiome--current state and implications for diseaseat the opening ceremony as one of the chairmen of the workshop prof. yilei mao deputy chair in chinese society of liver surgeons and processor of pumc extended his warm welcome and greetings to all speakers and audiences.

first of all prof. jamila faivre associate professor of cell biology in paul brousse hospital indicated that dysbiosis exists at early stages of liver chronic diseases.

he presented thatnucleotidesnucleosides derived from host or bacteria appear to have major effects on inflammatory reactions and immune responses in experimental models tested ii cd39 gene polymorphisms are noted in immune mediated disease of gut and liver iii differential expression of cd39 by immune cells as impacted by bacteria modulates inflammatory and immune reactions in vivo figure 4.dr.

pengyu huang from shanghaitech university shared his experience about application of crisprcas9 systems in studying and treating liver diseases.

the liver microbiome and academic skills workshopthe final speaker for the workshop was dr. sara gaines from the university of chicago.

