they confirmed that that additional administration of anti-il-17 suppressed the tumor growth more strongly compared with probiotics and speculate that the probiotics may require il-17 modulation for tumor suppression 10.it has been reported that segmented filamentous bacteria sfb is the major inducers of intestinal th17 cells where adhesion of these microbes to intestinal epithelial cells is a critical cue for th17 accumulation 12. li et al.

revealed that prohep slowed down the s.c. tumor growth and reduced the tumor size and weight table 1. this report is especially interesting because the authors presented novel insights into the mechanism by which probiotics suppressed the tumor growth figure 1. namely they proved that the effect of prohep was notrelated to the reduction of tumor cell proliferation or the enhancement of tumor cell apoptosis but related to the hypoxia attributable to the suppression of tumor angiogenesis.

these pathogen-associated microbial products pamps activate toll-like receptors tlrs in kupffer cells and hepatic stellate cells hscs provoking inflammation fibrosis and carcinogenesis in the liver.activated tlrs induce hepatocyte proliferation and hepatomitogen expression and inhibit apoptosis 4. the secondary ba deoxycholic acid dca promotes a condition similar to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and obesity-associated hcc in a mouse model 5. it perturbs cell membranes to release arachidonic acid which is converted to reactive oxygen species potent triggers of inflammation and dna damage 6. the enterohepatic circulation of dca provokes a senescence-associated secretory phenotype in hscs which increases pro-inflammatory cytokines and tumor-promoting factors thus enhancing the hcc development in animals given chemical carcinogen 7.modulation of the gut microbiota by probiotics has been tried in experimental studies aiming at the suppression of hepatocarcinogenesis table 1. zhang et al.

they considered that the probiotics inhibited the recruitment of th17 cells from the gut and peripheral blood to the tumor sites which led to the lowering of pro-angiogenic il-17 and eventually the suppression of angiogenesis and tumor growth.

increasing impact of gut dysbiosis is recognized with the progression of liver injury from mild fatty liver disease to advanced liver cirrhosis 1 where the enterohepatic circulation is considered to strengthen a relation between gut microbiome and the liver.

decreased th17 cells in the small intestine and peripheral blood suggested the decreased mobilization of th17 cells to the tumor site.

thehepatobiliary surgery and nutrition vol 6 no 6 december 2017427authors next found that the proportion of th17 cells in total cd4 cells was decreased in the small intestine and peripheral blood but not in the spleen liver and mesenteric lymph node.

the authors considered that the suppressed tumor angiogenesis due to decreased il-17 and its major producer th17 cells invoked by the administration of prohep was the mainstay of this tumor suppression.

oscillibacter parabacteroides and bacteroides fragilis which were also increased in the prohep groups are known to enhance il-10 producing treg cells 10. increased bacterial production of scfas by the probiotics is considered to alleviate leaky gut and portal endotoxemia which may mitigate liver inflammation and fibrosis.

these studies have suggested that the probiotics suppresses development and growth of hcc by protecting endotoxin-mediated liver inflammation fibrosis and carcinogenesis.hepatobiliary surgery and nutrition vol 6 no 6 december 2017425table 1 comparisons of three experimental studies investigating the effects of probiotics on hepatocellular carcinomaden diethylnitrosamine.426fukui.

anyway we should bear in mind that chemotherapy itself alters the composition of microbial communities in patients 5. moreover another platinum chemotherapeutic oxaliplatin is known to exerts its tumor- retardation effects in a microbiota-dependent manner 5. it seems therefore worth investigating if the effects of cisplatin or other anticancer drugs can be substantially heightened by an addition of the probiotics in the cancer chemotherapy.in this manuscript 10 li et al.

butyrate- producing probiotics reduce nonalcoholic fatty liver disease progression in rats new insight into the probiotics for the gut-liver axis.

8 reported that the administration of probiotics vsl3 a probiotic combination of eight strains of lactobacilli bifidobacteria and streptococcus decreased tumor growth and multiplicity in the liver and markedly improved the enteric dysbiosis intestinal inflammation and endotoxemia in rats given diethylnitrosamine den.

10 further noted that the decreased vascular area in the tumor was associated with the down-regulation of angiogenic growth factors and receptors such as flt-1 ang2 kdr vegfa and tek and also related to the decreased population of th17 subset within the tumor 10. th17 marker genes il-17 and rorgt were also suppressed in the tumor.

email provenance this is an invited editorial commissioned by editor-in-chief yilei mao department of liver surgery peking union medical college hospital chinese academy of medical sciences beijing china.comment on li j sung cy lee n et al.

