Cell specificity dictates similarities in gene expression in multiple sclerosis Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.

9407.Several independent laboratories have recently reported the detection of bacterial nucleic acid sequences or bacterial-derived neurotoxins such as highly inflammatory lipopolysaccharide LPS within Alzheimer's disease AD affected brain tissues.

These studies suggest that in AD LPS may impair the efficient readout of neuronal genetic information normally required for the homeostatic operation of brain cell function and may contribute to a progressive disruption in the read-out of genetic information.Keywords Alzheimer's disease AD inflammatory degeneration lipopolysaccharide LPS RNA Pol II transcription run-on gene transcriptionINTRODUCTION--THE HUMAN GI TRACT MICROBIOMEThe human gastrointestinal GI tract microbiome is comprised of a complex and dynamic community of microbiota consisting predominantly of bacteria with various species of fungi protozoa viruses and other microorganisms making up the balance            .The number of GI tract microbial genes from 1000 different species of anaerobic or facultative anaerobic bacteria vastly outnumber human genes by at least one hundred to one            .

Analysis of RNA from Alzheimer's disease post-mortem brain tissues.

16S rRNA next generation sequencing analysis shows bacteria in Alzheimer's post-mortem brain.

Microbiome-derived lipopolysaccharide enriched in the perinuclear region of Alzheimer's disease brain.

Kohler C. A. Maes M. Slyepchenko A. Berk M. Solmi M. Lanctot K. L. et al.

Epub ahead of print.McLachlan D. R. Lukiw W. J. Mizzen C. Percy M. E. Somerville M. J. Sutherland M. K. et al.

 12 Lin Cong 13 and 13451Neuroscience Center Louisiana State University School of Medicine Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center New Orleans LA United States 2Departments of Anatomy and Cell Biology Louisiana State University School of Medicine Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center New Orleans LA United States 3Department of Neurology Shengjing Hospital China Medical University Shenyang China 4Department of Neurology Louisiana State University School of Medicine Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center New Orleans LA United States 5Department of Ophthalmology Louisiana State University School of Medicine Louisiana State University Health Sciences CenterNew Orleans LA United StatesEdited by Matthew Richard Chapman University of Michigan United StatesReviewed byJorge Valero Achucarro Basque Center for NeuroscienceIkerbasque Basque Foundation for Science SpainMarkus P. Kummer University of Bonn GermanyCorrespondence Walter J. Lukiw Received 07 September 2017Accepted 24 November 2017Published 12 December 2017Citation Zhao Y Cong L and Lukiw WJ 2017 Lipopolysaccharide LPSAccumulates in Neocortical Neurons of Alzheimer's Disease AD Brain and Impairs Transcription in Human Neuronal-Glial Primary Co-cultures.

There is a growing appreciation of the critical role that GI tract microbes play in health aging and disease including their important roles in coordinating metabolic- nutritive- and homeostatic-functions and in their functional disruption in chronic diseases such as anxiety autoimmune-disease diabetes metabolic-syndrome obesity and stress-induced and progressive inflammatory neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric diseases that include Alzheimer's disease AD.

