hentschel u. usher k. m. and taylor m. w. 2006. marine sponges as microbial fermenters.

11 1043-1052. burgsdorf i. slaby b. m. handley k. m. haber m. blom j. marshall c. w. et al.

oecologia 139 131-139. manzo e. ciavatta m. l. villani g. varcamonti m. sayem s. m. van soest r. et al.

meyer f. paarmann d. d'souza m. olson r. glass e. m. kubal m. et al.

tetrahedron 40 4109-4113. gordaliza m. 2010. cytotoxic terpene quinones from marine sponges.

u.k. 96 481-492. pita l. turon x. lopez-legentil s. and erwin p. m. 2013. host rules spatial stability of bacterial communities associated with marine sponges ircinia spp.

9 1363-1375. webster n. s. and taylor m. w. 2012. marine sponges and their microbial symbionts love and other relationships.

the sharp enrichment of this trait in the s. officinalis microbiome followed by sediments leads us to posit that these enzymes may primarily act as anti-oxidant agents in these particular settings along with other anti-oxidant enzymes known to be enriched in sponges such as glutathione peroxidases   observed here to possess high abundance in both sponges and sediments supplementary table s4 ipr ipr000889.

this study highlights the s. officinalis endosymbiome as a distinct consortium of uncultured prokaryotes displaying a likely sit-and-wait strategy to nutrient foraging coupled to sophisticated anti-viral defenses unique natural product biosynthesis nutrient utilization and detoxification capacities and both microbe-microbe and host-microbe gene transfer amenability.keywords host-microbe interactions marine sponges microbiome next-generation sequencing symbiosisintroductionsponges phylum porifera rank among the oldest extant metazoans and are distributed worldwide across all oceans and major freshwater bodies displaying various shapes sizes and colors which are possibly influenced by environmental and biotic conditions    .

considering the broad distribution of terpeneterpenoid systhase genes across bacterial genomes   it is tempting to argue that terpenoid biosynthesis in s. officinalis and marine sponges in general could be as well mediated by bacterial symbionts emerging as a further mechanism possibly conferring host defense against natural enemies or mediating microbe-microbe interactions within the sponge host.

the consistent trend found here for a primarily heterotrophic less-motile community of endosymbionts highlights the need of approaching distinct microniches within marine sponges for a better understanding of microbiome spatial distributions and dynamics in these hosts  .finally we detected much higher incidence of crispr-casand restriction endonucleases in the s. officinalis microbiomethan in seawater--in accordance with earlier metagenomics surveys      --and sediments.

therefore in the context of its two immediate environmental surroundings the enrichment of both defense mechanisms can be indeed considered a true hallmark of the s. officinalis microbiome and much likely of marine sponges in general.

in the context of the marine sponge holobiont sulfatases are supposed to be involved in nutritional exchange between host and microbes playing a vital role in the cycling of sulfur within the animal.altogether the outcomes delineated above indicate closer resemblance in functional attributes between sponges and sediments than sponges and seawater a hypothesis corroborated by bray-curtis dissimilarity measures calculated for the three biotopes based on the whole array of 10272 ipr entries uncovered from the data .

future studies aiming to define the gene content of the community of circular plasmids present in marine sponges will certainly shed new light on the functional features more likely to traffic about in the mobile gene pool within the porifera.physical connectivity between sponges and sediments although usually given less importance in microbiology studies than seawater intake via filtering takes place by the capture of particulate organic matter and particles in suspension by the sponge host  .

we advocate that such an approach which in the future shall include the assessment of other invertebrate hosts is imperative for a holistic understanding of microbial community dynamics and function in marine sponges and benthic ecosystems at large.ethics statementthis study relied on in situ sampling of microorganisms from marine invertebrates without a nervous system and as such was exempt from ethical approval procedures according to the current portuguese legislation decreto-lei n 1132013. this study did not occur within privately owned or protected areas.

