published by elsevier ltd.keywords culturomics human breast milk microbiota lactomassilus timonensis taxonomyoriginal submission 13 october 2017 revised submission 1 december 2017 accepted 7 december 2017article published online 14 december 2017in an assessment study of breast milk microbiota by culturomics  we isolated a new anaerobic bacterial species from the milk of a 35-year-old lactating malian woman.

written consent was obtained from each participant before sampling according to the declaration of helsinki and council for international organizations of medical sciences cioms 2016. the study and the consent procedure were approved by the ethics committee of institut federatif de recherche ifr 48 under consent number 09-022 2010 and bythe fmpos institutional ethics committee mali comite d'ethi- que-faculte de medecine de pharmacie et d'odontostomatologie ce-fmpos.initial growth was obtained after 21 days of preincubation in a blood culture bottle bactec lytic10 anaerobicf culture vials le pont de claix isere france enriched with 4 ml of sheep's blood and 4 ml of rumen under anaerobic atmosphere at 37degc.

this could hasten future medical progress because milk microbiota are a critical determinant of human health.maldi-tof ms spectrumthe maldi-tof ms spectrum of this strain is available online  .nucleotide sequence accession numberthe 16s r rna gene sequence was deposited in genbank under accession number lt934541.deposit in a culture collectionstrain marseille-p4641t csur p 4641t was deposited in the collection de souches de l'unite des rickettsies csur  p 4641.conflict of interestnone declared.acknowledgementsthe authors thank m. lardiere for english-language review.

h. togo a. camara s. konate o. k. doumbo d. raoultand m. million1 aix-marseille universite urmite um63 cnrs7278 ird198 inserm 1095 institut hospitalo-universitaire mediterranee-infection faculte de medecine marseille france and 2 malaria research and training center department of epidemiology of parasitic diseases fmos-faph university of science techniques and technologies bamako maliabstractwe here report the main characteristics of a new anaerobic bacterial genus and species 'lactomassilus timonensis' strain marseille-p4641t csur  p4641 isolated by microbial culturomics from the milk of a 35-year-old healthy lactating mother from mali.c 2017 the authors.

'lactomassilus timonensis' a new anaerobic bacterial species isolated from the milk of a healthy african mothera.

the species lactomassilus timonensis and the strain marseille-p4641t are the type species and the type strain of the new genus and the new species lactomassilus gen. nov. and l. timonensis sp.

this work was funded by the fondation mediterranee infection and by malaria research and training center-departement d'epi- demiologie et des affections parasitairesunite mixte de recherche internationale mrtc-deapumi3189 centre na- tional de la recherche scientifique cnrs and fondation merieux fmerieux grants.referencesfi....c 2017 the authors.

we previously reported veillonella massiliensis as the first culturomics species isolated from human milk of a french woman.

here we report the first culturomics species isolated from the breast milk of an african woman.

this is important because milk is a main vector for the vertical transmission of the human gut microbiota .

moreover healthy milk microbiota is critical for the later development of healthy mature anaerobic gut microbiota in offspring .

1. phylogenetic tree showing position of 'lactomassilus timonensis' strain marseille-p4641t relative to other phylogenetically close species.

these results suggest the creation of a new genus and species for which the names lacto- massilus and l. timonensis are proposed.

timonensis' ti.mon.ensis n.l.

gen. n. refers to timonensis the name of la timone hospital where the strain was isolated.

