the honey bee colonies were then placed at six different locations in two landscape types in the southern uk on 2-4 april 2014 figure 1 i farmland areas immediately adjacent to 5 m large 0.38 km2 oilseed rape osr fields that were in flower and had been seed-treated with thiamethoxam cruiser syngenta ltd. ii agricultural land distant to osr distant with the nearest osr field boundaries being located1.25 km from hives and therefore little visited as average foraging distances are short 1.1 km during the osr blooming period april- may couvillon schurch  ratnieks 2014. all study sites were se- lected to be as similar as possible in other landscape factors including elevation soil type exposure and land use.

apis kwong  moran 2016 was higher in relative abundance in bees exposed to agricultural landscapes distant to osr distant than bees exposed to osr farms osr table s2 figure 2. in contrast taxa assigned to the same class alphaproteobacteria as b. apis were found at higher relative abundance in bees exposed to osr farms using the deseq2 test only although we note that very few sequence reads were assigned to the alphaproteobacteria 0.05.under the deseq2 test taxa belonging to the acetobacteraceaealpha 2.1 were also found at a higher relative abundance in bees for- aging on osr.

both tests of abundance we used show that honey bee workers foraging on osr farms had a lower rel- ative abundance of a dominant member of the bee gut community an alphaproteobacteria species b. apis than bees not foraging on osr.

2017.honey bees from the two landscape types showed signifi-cant differences in their gut microbial communities using two com- parisons permanova p  .004 using bray-curtis dissimilarity indices p  .042 using unweighted unifrac distances table 1 the permanova comparison using weighted unifrac distances was not significant p  .642. we also find substantial - and significant - vari- ation among sites and a substantial proportion of residual variance table 1. in fact differences between landscape types accounted for 1-6 of total variance depending on the dissimilarity used while differences between individual sites accounted for a higher percent- age of the total variance 17-27 table 1. the nonmetric multidi- mensional scaling nmds plot shows a degree of separation but also overlap in the microbial communities of bees exposed to osr farms and regions distant from osr farms figure 3. gut microbiome diver- sity was not significantly different in bees exposed to the different landscape types anova f134  0.07 p  .79.figure 2 taxonomic composition of the gut microbiome of honey bees exposed to different landscapes.

2011 moran 2015. this may then imply that factors causing deviations from the normal microbial community in social bees are detrimental.4.1  microbial association with landscape exposurewe found that some members of the dominant microbial community of honey bee workers differ in relative abundance according to land- scape exposure.

adult for- ager bees found on the exterior of the colony were sampled from each apiary just after peak osr flowering time when workers at the osr farms had been foraging and storing nectar and pollen from the osr.

specifically we find that some taxa belonging to dominant members of the bee gut microbiota are dif- ferentially represented in bees foraging on the mass-flowering crop oilseed rape compared to those not foraging on this crop.our results lend further support to the presence of a core gut microbial community in honey bees with the main taxa previouslycharacterized also being found in our samples moran 2015. high consistency in the honey bee microbiome suggests that mutualistic relationships exist between the host and at least some members of the community and comparative analysis of gene contents conducted in previous studies suggest beneficial roles in nutrition and digestion while experiments with bumblebees have shown gut bacterial taxa offer protection from pathogens engel et al.

2014 however trends observed here in l. kunkeei and also a. adventoris re- quire further investigation as these species were represented in very low read numbers there was large read number variation in some sam- ples and we did not include the crop in our analysis of the gut.what do such differences in a bee's microbial community mean to date the most abundant gene function category clusters of orthologous groups - cog found to be enriched in the honey bee metagenome in a metagenome sequencing study engel et al.

recent honey bee colony losses worldwide call for a more in-depth understanding of the pathogenic and mutualistic components of the microbial communities of this eco- logically and economically important pollinator gallai salles settele  vaissiere 2009 ollerton winfree  tarrant 2011 and specifically the association between the environment and microbial community engel et al.

2015 also suggest that overall colony productivity is not consistently correlated with forager gut microbial community.mass-flowering crops such as osr have been shown to enhance pollinator abundance because they provide additional pollen and nec- tar resources holzschuh dormann tscharntke  steffan-dewenter 2013 riedinger renner rundlof steffan-dewenter  holzschuh 2014 schurch couvillon  ratnieks 2016 westphal steffan- dewenter  tscharntke 2003. therefore greater abundance of forage and of a specific forage type may drive microbial community composition.

honey bees exposed to the neonicotinoid imidacloprid for example have been reported to show an increase in infection of nosema spp gut parasites pettis vanengelsdorp johnson  dively 2012. we found no difference in microbial community diversity between the different environments but it is important to note that the interaction between infection and microbial community is complex and can operate in both directions.to date host environmental habitat and the ecological conditions shaping the microbial community in the field as opposed to lab reared hosts has received comparatively little attention.

unsurprisingly the major bacterial taxa previouslyfound to dominate the gut community of honey bees were represented in high proportions in the samples studied here figure 2. using a cus- tom honey bee bacterial database of currently available genomes of bee gut bacteria we were able to assign 92 of the sequence reads to spe- cies level 99.93 to phylum level 98 to family and 95 to genus level and verify that the major previously identified taxa or strains were present in our data neisseriaceae s. alvi orbaceae g. apicola andf.

... dainat b.. 2016. the bee microbiome impact on bee health and model for evolution and ecology of host-microbe inter- actions.

2014. genomics and host specialization of honey bee and bumble bee gut symbionts.

it has also been a focus of recent debate over the application of neon- icotinoid pesticides that have been implicated in pollinator declines suryanarayanan 2015. we therefore compared the gut bacterial communities of honey bees exposed to osr farms with those from agricultural environments distant to fields of flowering osr.2  materials and methods  sites and samplingthirty-six honey bee colonies were maintained using standard bee- keeping methods by the same beekeeper at the university of sussex for 1 year prior to the experiment.

