in comparisons based on relative abundances of cog functional categories many categories had significant differences among 5 metagenome groups supplementary table 5. moreover post-hoc pairwise comparisons focusing on specific differences between the flying squirrel's cecum and the other four groups supplementary table 6 indicated that despite several significant pairs the flying squirrel's cecum had clear differences from all other groups in one particular category namely defense mechanisms v. specifically compared to other mammalian gut metagenomes the flying squirrel's cecal metagenome containeda significantly higher percentage of gene function involved in defense mechanisms supplementary table 5 especially for those cog gene families assigned to multidrug efflux pumps supplementary table 7.in addition in a comparison of glycoside hydrolase gh groups among all 5 metagenome groups the flying squirrel's cecal metagenome contained relatively high levels of gh3 gh43 and gh53 supplementary table 8 those gh groups were specific for degradation of oligosaccharides and were actually enriched in cecal metatranscriptions figure 7.discussionin this study we demonstrated specialized digestive strategies of the white-faced flying squirrel petaurista alborufus lena including powerful molars to facilitate mastication of tree leaves and an extended cecum to store ingesta for microbial activities figure 1. notably size distribution of feed particles in the large intestine was more similar to that in the stomach than in the cecum figure 1d and supplementary figure 2 indicating that some large feed particles might go directly to the large intestine bypassing the cecum corresponding to the description of specialized sorting at the ileal-cecal-colic junction in small herbivores sakaguchi 2003. overall based on these anatomicalphysiological characteristics we inferred that transformation of dietary compounds into absorbable nutrients would primarily be conducted in the cecum with the aid of microbial activities.based on mass spectrometry to detect metabolites in feed contents distinct gut compartments contained various typeslevels of compounds figure 2. more importantly many phytochemicals leaf-derived compounds were present only in the stomach and small intestine but were not detected in the cecum and large intestine figure 3. we inferred that those phytochemicals were likely released from plant cells following exposure to a low ph and enzymes in the foregut and later degraded or transformed by gut microbes in the hindgut deprez et al.

that probably accounted for decreasing flavonoid compoundsin the cecum figure 3. more importantly those gh sequences contained a high nucleotide variation and in fact were assigned to various bacterial taxa mostly belonging to firmicutes as listed in figure 4 suggesting the importance of those enzymatic activities for microbes living in the flying squirrel's cecum.in addition to carbohydrate-degrading ability figure 8 several genes involved in abc-type sugar importers supplementary figure 9 were detected in the flying squirrel's cecal microbiota with many up-regulated at the rna level figures 5 6. based on these findings we inferred that the cecal microbiota may have a substantial ability to quickly transport simple sugars into cells after investing enzymes for hydrolyzing plant fibers into monosaccharides figure 9 upper part.

future research focusing on more individuals from leaf-eating flying squirrels and other small mammalian herbivores is demanded to capture the functionaluniqueness of the cecal microbiota considering different feeding adaptations and gut structures of large vs. small mammalian herbivores stevens and hume 1995 mackie 2002.in the present study we delineated anatomicalphysiological characteristics of the flying squirrel's digestive system figure 1 and demonstrated functional characteristics of cecal microbiota based on multiple meta-omic data including metabolomic profiles figures 2 3 and parallel metagenome- metatranscriptome profiles figures 4-8. here we summarize crucial metabolic capacities of the flying squirrel's cecal microbiota figure 9 including the ability to 1 secrete various glycoside hydrolases to degrade plant fibers into simple sugars2 transport simple sugars into the cells while also moving toward sugar-rich microhabitats and 3 ferment sugars into short-chain fatty acids to generate energy for synthesizing amino acids and nucleotides.

several phytochemicals 20 were present only in the stomach and small intestine with relatively fewer phytochemicals detected in the cecum and large intestine figure 3 especially flavonoids phenylpropanoids and polyketides figures 3d-f. moreover considering the relative intensity of those detected phytochemicals their signal intensities were also much lower in the hindgut than in the foregut supplementary figure 4.metagenomes and metatranscriptomes of the flying squirrel's cecal microbiotabased on the annotation of protein-coding sequences at both dna and rna levels cecal microbiota were dominated by bacteria average 97.94 of dna reads and 88.24 of rna reads supplementary table 2 followed by eukaryotes0.77 and 11.37 archaea 0.46 and 0.11 and viruses 0.09 and 0.03. targeting bacterial composition the phylum firmicutes was extremely abundant in both metagenomes 90 and metatranscriptomes 85 with actinobacteria proteobacteria bacteroidetes constituting only a small fraction supplementary table 3. at a genus level 577 bacterial taxa were detected whereas only 30 taxa contained 0.5 reads in any library figure 4. among these abundant genera clostridium ruminococcus and eubacterium all belonging to firmicutes were the top three in all libraries contributing to the majority up to 50 of annotated protein-coding genes in the cecal metagenome and metatranscriptome.according to the cog annotation figure 5 and supplementary figure 5 functional gene families had distinct abundance patterns at dna and rna levels.

the ph of feed contents also differed among gut chambers figure 1d with stomach contents having a relatively low ph 4-5 small intestine contents being slightly alkaline ph 7-8 and contents in the cecum and large intestine being mildly acidic both ph 6-7. regarding feed particle sizes figure 1d and supplementary figure 2 feedparticles in the stomach were already fine on average 1.5 mm.nevertheless compared to dry and coarse fibers present in the stomach feed contents in the cecum were even finer on average 0.6 mm with a sludge-like texture supplementary figure 3. moreover in microscopic evaluation of cecal contents various microbial cells were closely attached to plant debris figures 1e-g.metabolomic compositions across the flying squirrel's gut compartmentsbased on lc-esi-ms metabolomic profiles each gut compartment contained its own unique compound composition in feed contents with clear differences between samples from the upper stomach and small intestine vs. lower cecum and large intestine portions of the digestive tract figure 2. overall therewere 600 phytochemicals mainly leaf-derived metabolitesdetected among all gut samples.

in the cecal metagenome and metatranscriptome pathways regarding pentose and glucuronate interconversions supplementary figure 10 energy generating from sugar fermentation supplementary figures 11 12 and biosynthesis of various macromolecules supplementary figures 13-16 were well-represented indicating that plant-sourced sugars could be efficiently transformed into bacterial biomass in the flying squirrel's cecum with adequate fermentation end-products to meet host requirements bergman 1990 stevens and hume 1998.our interpretation about functional characteristics of the cecal microbiota was based on the consistent patterns of two flying squirrel individuals which may not be enough to robustly demonstrate how symbiotic microbes respond to unique environmental conditions in the cecum.

thus the flying squirrel's cecal microbiota should be an ideal model to investigate microbial functional characteristics with regard to a high-fiber toxin-rich diet.objectives were to elucidate anatomicalphysiological characteristics of the flying squirrel's digestive system and functional characteristics of its cecal microbiota under a high- fiber and toxin-rich diet.

moreover to provide a general understanding of this system we measured mass ph and feed particle size throughout the gut and included images of flying squirrel's skull and teeth as well as microscopic features of cecal microorganisms figure 1. this exploratory study provides findings which may help to form molecular-based hypotheses regarding functional contributions of symbiotic gut microbiota in small herbivores with folivorous dietary habits.materials and methodssample collectionfive white-faced flying squirrels petaurista alborufus lena were captured from the mountains of taiwan.

2017 whereas detailed combinations and relative abundances of gh groups seemed to differ among animals with distinct gut structures and dietarypreferences supplementary table 8. for example there were relatively high abundances of gh3 gh43 and gh53 in the flying squirrel's cecal metagenome with even enriched levels in the cecal metatranscriptome figure 8. despite different substrate specificities these three dominant gh groups are involved in the degradation of beta-linkage oligosaccharides cantarel et al.

similar functional relationships were obtained based on the pfam annotation supplementary figure 17.to reveal unique functional characteristics of the flying squirrel's cecal microbiota we conducted statistical tests among5 metagenome groups i.e.

specifically the most abundant cog in the cecal metagenome was assigned to the abc-type multidrug exporter component cog1132 involved in defense mechanisms representing 2 of hits figure 5. by contrast the most abundant cog in the cecal metatranscriptome was assigned to the flagellin protein cog1344 involved in cell motility followed by several abc- type sugar importer components e.g.

functional gene compositions based on the cog annotation figure 8 demonstrated that 1 functional profiles of cecal metagenomes and ruminal metagenomes were distinct from those based on fecal samples and 2 functional profiles of cecal metagenomes were also distinct from those of ruminal metagenomes.

2016. further studies are required to determine targets and roles of those genes.based on metagenomes and metatranscriptomes the flying squirrel's cecal microbial communities were exceedingly dominated by bacterial firmicutes taxa including diverse genera figure 4. these taxonomic profiles based on protein-codingsequences were consistent with our previous results based on 16s rrna gene sequences lu et al.

for each individual samples from the cecum supplementary figure 1 sites 8-11 each 5 g were pooled to represent the entire cecal microbiota.

sensing the gradient of surrounding nutrients and moving toward stimulatory chemicals figure 9 top to bottom of left side were likely important for cecal microbiota.

