we found that il-17 producing gdt cells were markedly increased in lfs-01 treatment group compared to dss-treated group and the control group .

c evaluation of the percentage of tlr2gdt cells among gdt cells treated or un-treated with 30 ul of the lactobacillus culture supernatent in vitro il-17a concentration in the supernatant of purified gdt cells treated or un-treated with 30 ul of the lactobacillus culture supernatent in vitro detected by elisa.

which were elevated in dss-treated group supplementary figures s4c-e.lfs-01 treatment enhances the production of il-17 gdt cells after intestinal injurywe observed that the mucosal level of il-17a was increased in both dss and lfs-01 treated animal groups compared with the control group .

however we observed that the subcellular localization of oculudins was altered in the epithelial cells of the colonic crypts in the dss-induced colitis group compared to the control group.

in contrast the gut epithelial cells in the dss-induced colitis group exhibited diffused occludin staining that appeared to extend into cytoplasm as compared to the control group .

as expected transcripts of clau and zo-1 are significantly downregulated in dss- induced colitis group compared to the control group whereas in lfs-01 treatment group the transcripts level of both proteins were recovered.

unfortunately there is currently no known cure for ibd and effective treatments are still lacking.there have been accumulating evidences suggesting that commensal microbiota that populates epithelial surface can function as a potent immunomodulator for intestinal mucosal t cells such as gdt cells   .

gdt cells were then purified from the spleens of mice using the mouse tcrgd t-cell isolation kit and the minimacstm miltenyibiotec germany.gdt cells cultured with lactobacillusbrevescells were put into single-cell suspensions at 1-2 106 cellsml and were plated for a final volume of 200 ul and re-stimulated with media alone or with media and bacterial components.

the adaptive t helper 17 th17 cells   and gdt cells   have been regarded as two major producers of il-17 against pathogens at mucosal surface.

hence we employedflow cytometry analysis to detect the specific contribution of th17 cells and gdt cells to il-17a production in our experiments.

importantly flow cytometry analysis showed that the percentage of tlr2 gt cells instead of dectin-1 gt cells were significantly enhanced upon treatment of lfs-01  and supplementary figure s6.

interestingly we found that preincubation of colonic lamina propria clp cells with lactobacillus breves dm9218 can significantly increase the percentage of isolated gdt cells .

a representative flow cytometry plots and evaluation of the percentage of gdt cells among clp cells treated or un-treated with 30 ul of the lactobacillus breves dm9218 in vitro.

representative flow cytometry plots and of tlr2 gdt cells among gdt cells treated or un-treated with 30 ul of the lactobacillus culture supernatent in vitro.

namely in the control group oculudins were mainly localized on the apical surface of the epithelial cells as demonstrated in the cross sectional confocal images .

