changes in microbiota community across vector species and habitat typecomparison of mosquito microbiota or beta-diversity across samples using cluster analysis in this study indicated significant differences to a certain extent by both species and the habitats characterized in this study figure 4. the grouping of samples by host species was also observed somewhat in nonmetric multidimensional scaling nmds plots at least for bacterial community composition figure s3.

rarefaction curves by vector species in the rural habitat where all species were collected for pool sizes of 25. gray shading around lines represents the 95 confidence interval of the estimate  richness of microbiota associated with mosquito vectors by habitat typein this study the bacterial microbiota of ae.

2015. in characterizing mosquito species and their diversity across habitats we have observed that mosquito overall diversity decreased with in- creasing relative abundance of several medically important invasive mosquito vector species and degree of human habitat modification thongsripong et al.

aegypti and that further study is merited.4  discussion this study contributes significantly to our knowledge of mosquito microbiota in nature by employing culture-independent amplicon- based metagenomic deep sequencing to characterize both bac- terial and eukaryotic microbial rrna sequences associated with field-collected mosquito vectors of disease ae.

parasites  vectors 8 641. yadav k. k. datta s. naglot a. bora a. hmuaka v. bhagyawant s. ... raju p. s. 2016. diversity of cultivable midgut microbiota at differ- ent stages of the asian tiger mosquito aedes albopictus from tezpur india.

2007. dna detection rates of host mtdna in bloodmeals of human body lice pediculus humanus l. 1758. medical and veterinary entomology 21 293-296. david m. r. dos santos l. m. b. vicente a. c. p.  maciel-de-freitas r. 2016. effects of environment dietary regime and ageing on the den- gue vector microbiota evidence of a core microbiota throughout aedes aegypti lifespan.

scandinavian journal of statistics 11 265-270.chusri s. siripaitoon p. silpapojakul k. hortiwakul t. charernmak b. chinnawirotpisan p. ... jarman r. g. 2014. kinetics of chikungunya infections during an outbreak in southern thailand 2008-2009. the american journal of tropical medicine and hygiene 90 410-417. cirimotich c. m. dong y. clayton a. m. sandiford s. l. souza-netoj.

diversity of microbiota associated with mosquito vectorsdiversity a function of not only species richness number of spe- cies but also species relative abundance here measured with thediversity indices shannon entropy shannon 1949 and chao1 chao 1984 varied greatly by sample figure 3. chao indices of diversity ranged from 11 to 41 with an average of 19 otus across samples.

applied and environmental microbiology 65 3622-3626.olsen s. j. campbell a. p. supawat k. liamsuwan s. chotpitayasunondh t. laptikulthum s. ... vasiknanonte p. 2015. infectious causes of en- cephalitis and meningoencephalitis in thailand 2003-2005. emerging infectious diseases 21 280-289.olson s. h. gangnon r. silveira g. a.  patz j. a.

aegypti respectively lantova  volf 2014 although cross- infections can occur between larvae lantova  volf 2014. the ob- served differences between diversity indices of microbiota between vector species could be influenced by the ability of vector-specific symbionts such as wolbachia and ascogregarina to colonize their hosts in high number as suggested in another study minard et al.

science 296 1064-1066. tranchida m. c. riccillo p. m. rodriguero m. s. garcia j. j.  micielim.

journal of microbiology 50 1071-1074. akorli j. gendrin m. pels n. a. p. yeboah-manu d. christophides g. k. wilson m. d. 2016. seasonality and locality affect the diversity of anopheles gambiae and anopheles coluzzii midgut microbiota from ghana.

atyame c. m. labbe p. lebon c. weill m. moretti r. marini f. ... tortosa p. 2016. comparison of irradiation and wolbachia based approaches for sterile-male strategies targeting aedes albopictus.

nature methods 7 668-669. salter s. j. cox m. j. turek e. m. calus s. t. cookson w. o. moffatt m. f. ... walker a. w. 2014. reagent and laboratory contamination can critically impact sequence-based microbiome analyses.

our results add to the current knowledge of vector-associated microbiota especially the eukaryotes to help reveal microbial species with the potential to control mosquito-borne dis- eases and to emphasize the need to understand how vector symbiotic microbial communities vary across habitats and may ultimately affect vector-borne disease transmission.2  materials and methods  mosquito collection and identificationadult mosquito collection and habitat characterization was described in a previous study thongsripong et al.

