 12 and 121 department of plant and microbial biology university of california berkeley berkeley ca united states 2 plant gene expression center united states department of agriculture-agricultural research service albany ca united statesedited bystephane hacquard max planck institute for plant breeding research mpg germanyreviewed bysalme timmusk swedish university of agriculturalsciences sweden ivika ostonenuniversity of tartu estoniacorrespondence devin coleman-derr specialty section this article was submitted to plant microbe interactions a section of the journal frontiers in plant sciencereceived 17 august 2017accepted 18 december 2017published 09 january 2018citation naylor d and coleman-derr d 2018 drought stress and root-associatedbacterial communities.

more research will be needed to make explicit connections for microbial recruitment patterns by plant root exudates under drought.these shifts in plant metabolism and exudation are mirrored by changes in plant morphological responses which include leaf rolling stomatal closure decreased leaf area increased synthesis of water-storing tissues such as tubers and wax accumulation on the leaf surface.

a soil in which a given plant has been repeatedly grown in can improve a plant's performance in this case biomass and drought-responsive gene expression under drought compared with the same conditions in non-sympatric soils   suggesting that even when not under stress plants will recruit beneficial bacteria that remain in the soil and can enhance drought tolerance for other members of their species.by definition a plant's relative health and fitness increases following the recruitment of microbes with pgp activities and engineering stable interactions between plants and a desired microbiome represents an attractive target for crop improvement through stress tolerance  .

plant soil 357 275-288. toth z. tancsics a. kriszt b. kroel-dulay g. onodi g. and hornung e. 2017. extreme effects of drought on composition of the soil bacterial community and decomposition of plant tissue bacterial community and plant tissue decomposition.

as drought may affect root bacterial communities both directly by modulating moisture availability as well as indirectly by altering soil chemistry and plant phenotypes we provide a synthesis of observed trends in recent studies and discuss possible directions for future research that we hope will provide for more knowledgeable predictions about community responses to future drought events.keywords plant-bacteria interactions rhizosphere microbiome drought stress plant rootsintroductionplants are intimately intertwined with the bacterial communities found in and around their roots which include both rhizosphere soils in close enough proximity to the root to be influenced by root exudate release and root endosphere the root interior communities  .

in the second section we consider how root-associated communities shift under drought we address the plant's physiological responses to drought and how these exert an impact on root- associated communities and we discuss the role of specific plant growth-promoting traits in the selection of drought-enriched taxa.

one review    systematically compared studies finding that when a decrease in plant biomass is accounted for moderate drought tends to increase carbon flux into the soil per gram of plant although severe drought can halt or even reverse this trend suggesting that there is a 'threshold' of drought.

increases in carbon efflux to soils could implicate the plant in altering its root communities inresponse to drought considering the importance of root exudates in microbial recruitment.carbon efflux from the plant to the soil may take several forms including release of dead cell contents voc emission and transfer of carbon to microbial symbionts but of these forms root exudates are most directly implicated in recruitment of the root microbiome.

apart from organic acid release efflux of hydrogen peroxide has been implicated as a means of plant drought tolerance to protect against ros damage   and maintain apical root growth   which may explain increased prevalence of actinobacterial genera such as streptomyces around droughted plant roots and rhizospheres   as many streptomyces lineages are able to effectively reduce ros damage in plants    .

this was demonstrated in  where plant fitness under drought was highest when grown in previously droughted soils while plant fitness under well-watered conditions was highest in soils where water was historically abundant.

interestingly in another study looking at pepper plants activities that affected the plant most directly such as phytohormone synthesis were primarily in root endophytes whereas nutrient solubilizers were better represented in rhizosphere and bulk soil  .screening of putative plant growth-promoting bacteria pgpb in vivo on droughted plants is a frequent strategy used to confirm growth promotion and has been done in a variety ofplant species            .

the phenomenon is now repeatedly confirmed by numerous authors   and calls for greater collaboration among plant biologists studying different stresses in order to address the complexity of plant stress responses under natural conditions.current limitations and future outlookin this review we have addressed the interdependent factors that determine drought response in root-associated bacterial communities.

a true time series for the root microbiome over the course of drought exposure and plant development would serve to highlight significant trends in accumulation or depletion of bacterial taxa as well as the effect of plant developmental stage on microbiome recruitment under drought.

insight into plant enrichment of bacterial taxa under drought will identify taxa implicated in plant growth promotion and in turn enhance development of microbial-based soil amendment strategies to alleviate drought stress for crops in arid regions thus boosting food security against the increasing threat of climate change.author contributionsdn organized and wrote the manuscript.

6 38-47. kim y.-c. glick b. r. bashan y. and ryu c.-m. 2012. enhancement of plant drought tolerance by microbes in plant responses to drought stress ed.

