more recentlya further ubiquitous transporter has been detected named na  multivitamin transporter which may represent a complementary structure for the intestinal absorption of iodine  .how and whether microbial composition may affect iodine ab- sorption in rats was studied some 50 years ago by treating them with kanamycin a nonabsorbed oral antibiotic that reduces both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria concentration.

furthermore selenium enrichment in the diet increased the biodiversity of host microbiota supporting the notion that this micronutrient may also shape intestinal microbial composition  in a bidirectional fashion related to the different utilization and toxicity profile of the bacteria.how microbiota may influence the pathways of iodothyronines metabolismdeiodination and conjugation pathways are the most effective in the whole metabolism of iodothyronines .

so far the role of microbiota seems to be a further regulator of thyroid homeostasis in that it may act directly through its metabolic enzymes as well as by modulating the chemical bioavailability of iodothyronines for reabsorption in theblood .

overall beside the reduction of the small intestine surface andor the impaired gastric acid secretion in pa- tients with gastric disorders intestinal dysbiosis may represent an additional cause of thyroxine malabsorption.concluding remarksthe interplay between microbiota and thyroid homeostasis is far from being completely understood.

ewith a little help from my friends - the role of microbiota in thyroid hormone metabolism and enterohepatic recyclingcamilla virili   marco centanni   a department of medico-surgical sciences and biotechnologies sapienza university of rome corso della repubblica 79 04100 latina italyb endocrinology unit ausl latina corso della repubblica 79 04100 latina italya r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 18 october 2016 received in revised form 28 january 2017accepted 31 january 2017available online 4 february 2017keywordsmicrobiotaiodothyronines metabolism levothyroxine enterohepatic circulation thyroxine malabsorption seleniuma b s t r a c t the gut microbiota is composed of over 1200 species of anaerobes and aerobes bacteria along with bacteriophages viruses and fungal species.

the intestinal microbiota interacts with distant organs by signals which may be part of the bacteria them- selves or their metabolites.

functional thyroid disorders were associated with bacterial overgrowth and a different microbial composition.

although thyroid metabolism was apparently disregarded the interference of microbiota on peripheral iodo- thyronine homeostasis is an intriguing issue.

it has been hypothesized that each individual may beclustered in 3 main enterotypes based on the relative distribution of the genera ruminococcus bacteroides and prevotella individual gut microbial composition becomes more complex corresponding author.

department of medico-surgical sciences and bio- technologies corso della repubblica 79 04100 latina italy.e-mail addresses c. virili m. centanni.with increasing age and in adult life its substantial stability may be transiently perturbed dysbiosis by long term diet changes drug interference and regional or systemic pathologic conditions .

the intestinal microbiota in- teracts with distant organs by signals that may be part of the bacteria themselves or their metabolites eur.

beside these two articles thyroidmicrobiota linkage was fairly disregarded as only two more review articles  were published on this topic.0303-7207c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.nevertheless thyroid hormone homeostasis is a complex and redundant system and the interference of microbiota on iodothyr- onine metabolism is an intriguing issue.

indeed the overlooked part of the thyroid homeostatic mechanism is what happens in the gut where microbiota reigns supreme.

upon the character- ization of nai symporter nis as the mechanism concentrating iodine in the thyroid  its presence has been characterized in some other tissues stomach breast salivary gland etc 'an  including the brush border of the small intestine in rats and mice .

its biological action is exerted as an obliged constituent of the sele- noproteins oeur the best characterized being glutathione peroxidase which beside other functions prevents lipid peroxi- dation thioredoxin reductase which is chiefly involved in themachinery of nuclear redox and deiodinase isoforms which regulate peripheral thyroid homeostasis oeur .

