the genus lactobacillus was present less commonly in urine from oab patients when compared to urine taken from controls p  0.02. overall the most commonly grown bacteria were staphylococcus grown in 59 of samples streptococccus 51 corynebacterium 37 and lactobacillus 28. a total of 95 different genera were identified from the urine samples.conclusion the female human bladder has a diverse microbiome with stastistically significant differences between bacterial species present in oab patients and controls.c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.introductionhistorically urine was considered to be sterile but current evidence suggests that this is not the case .

multiple organisms can be identified in the urine of women with and without overactive bladder oab with a negative mid- stream urine msu culture processed in a hospital microbiology laboratory .

the urine remaining from the original sample collection was subsequently taken for further study specific laboratory testing within four hours of initial collection.bacterial species isolation and amplificationa 5 ml urine sample was taken and centrifuged at 800 rpm for 5 mins the resulting pellet was re-suspended in 50 ml of the supernatant and 5 ml streaked onto two chocolate agar plates eand o laboratories.

the collection of urine samples in the study were approved by the national research ethics service where required.resultsthe urine samples of 95 women were analysed 60 from women with oab and 35 from healthy female controls with over 700 bacterial colonies characterised.

of all urine samples tested 97.8 grew at least one bacterial species and a total of 66 different bacterial genera were identified resident in the urine of both cohorts at different frequencies appendix a. the most frequently grown organisms from all samples expressed as percentage frequency were staphylococcus 59 streptococccus 51 corynebacterium 37 and lactobacillus 28. shows the frequency in which the 25 most commonly grown bacterialtable 1demographics details of patients and controls.ggg ac-30-eurofins and 5 ml sterile nuclease free water.

found lactobacillus in 29 of control urine samples compared with 12 of urine samples from patients with oab .

moreover another study comparing bacteria in the urine from women with urgency urinary incontinence uui to that in the urine of controls found decreased lactobacillus amongst the uui group .

lactobacillus has additionally been identified in the urine of men and from suprapubic aspirate providing further evidence that lactobacillus colonisation of urine is not solely due to vaginal contamination.

a study comparing csus to msus and relating this to symptoms is needed to fully address this.data trends observed in this study regarding pathogenicorganisms commonly seen in patients with urinary tract infection indicated that these bacteria were more commonly identified in the urine of patients with oab than urine of controls.

full length articlea case controlled study examining the bladder microbiome in women with overactive bladder oab and healthy controlsnatasha curtiss aswini balachandran louise krska claire peppiatt-wildmanscott wildman jonathan ducketta department of obstetrics and gynaecology medway maritime hospital gillingham kent me7 5ny ukb urinary-system physiology unit medway school of pharmacy universities of kent and greenwich uka r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 16 december 2016received in revised form 14 february 2017 accepted 20 april 2017keywords microbiome overactive bladder womenurinary incontinencea b s t r a c tobjective to characterise the microbiome in healthy women with no bladder symptoms and to compare this to the bladder microbiome in patients with overactive bladder syndrome oab.study design msu specimens from 63 women with oab were compared to urine from 35 controls.

urine was centrifuged and the resulting sediment pellet was re-suspended in supernatant and plated under aerobic conditions for 48 h and anaerobic conditions for 7 days.

several studies have now identified differences in the bacterial load and species present in urine taken from women with overactive bladder oab compared to healthy corresponding author at medway maritime hospital windmill road gillingham kent me7 5ny uk.e-mail address j. duckett.0301-2115c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.controls.

the use of vaginal transdermal or oral hormone replacement therapy was a contraindication for this study.a clean catch mid-stream urine msu was taken from allparticipants.

no subjects were using oral or vaginal lactobacillus preparationsthe mean number of different bacterial genera was 5 in urine samples of both the control and oab group 5.0 control v 5.0 oab.

the urine samples in both of these studies were collected by transurethral catheter as opposed to msu suggesting that lactobacillus is likely to be present in the female bladder and not present simply from contamination from the genital tract during msu collection .

