although c. botulinum spores are routinely ingested and excreted by humans the adult intestinal tract does not support spore ger- mination and toxin production under normal circumstances 1. in previously identified cases of adult intestinal toxemia patients had anatomic or functional abnormalities of the gut due to sur- gery inflammatory bowel disease or antibiotic-induced pertur- bation of gut flora 3-6. in allo-hct patients gastrointestinal symptoms and significant disturbances of the intestinal microbi- ota are common 7. this patient had experienced vomiting and diarrhea formany weeks that might have been caused by intestinal gvhd infections with opportunistic pathogens such as cmv or both colonoscopic biopsy documented chronic mucosal injury.

botulism microbiota bone marrow transplant adult intestinal toxemia botulism 16s rrna gene sequencing.botulism is a neuroparalytic disease that results from expos- ure to a neurotoxin produced by clostridium botulinum 1. botulism may be caused by ingestion of preformed toxin food- borne botulism c. botulinum colonization of wounds wound botulism or colonization of the gastrointestinal tract of infants infant botulism or adults adult intestinal toxemia botulism 2. of these adult intestinal toxemia is the rarest form of botu- lism and is believed to be related to anatomical or functional anomalies or recent antimicrobial use that might result in alter- ation of normal intestinal flora and facilitate colonization bybotulinum.

these intestinal disturbances might in some way parallel those seen in previously reported cases of adult intestinal toxemia as described above yet to our knowledge only 1 previous case of intestinal toxemia has been reported in an hct recipient.

clinical infectious diseases supplemen t articl e a case of adult intestinal toxemia botulism during prolonged hospitalization in an allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant recipientlalitha parameswaran1 agam rao2 katherine chastain3 joel ackelsburg4 eleanor adams5 brendan jackson2 louis p. voigt6 xi chen78 farid boulad38 and ying taur1891department of medicine infectious disease service memorial sloan kettering cancer center new york new york 2enteric diseases epidemiology branch division of foodborne waterborne and environmental diseases national center for emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases centers for disease control and prevention atlanta georgia 3department of pediatrics bone marrow transplant service memorial sloan kettering cancer center new york 4bureau of communicable disease new york city department of health and mental hygiene new york 5new york state department of health albany 6department of medicine critical care medicine service and 7department of neurology memorial sloan kettering cancer center new york 8weill cornell medical college new york and 9lucille castori center for microbes inflammation and cancer memorial sloan-kettering cancer center new york new yorkwe report a laboratory-confirmed case of adult intestinal toxemia botulism in an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation allo-hct recipient.

the detection of botulinum neurotoxin type a viable c. botulinum type a and genes for toxin type a production in the gut 3 weeks after onset of disease figure 1a further support the diagnosis of adult intestinal toxemia botulism.adult intestinal toxemia is incompletely understood.

following discussion with his family ventilator support was removed and he died.discussionhere we describe a case of botulism due to adult intestinal toxemia in a patient who had received an allo-hct.

adult intestinal toxemia intes- tinal colonization was the most likely cause of this patient's botulism.

to our knowledge gvhd has not been reported as a predisposing factor for botulism.botulism in a bmt during hospitalization  cid 201866 suppl 1  s101in order to gain insight into the composition of this patient's intestinal microbiome we collected and analyzed a fecal speci- men just prior to bat administration.

based on these results the patient was promptly treated with botu- lism antitoxin heptavalent a b c d e f g-equine bat emergent biosolutions obtained through the cdc.two days after receiving bat the patient developed asystolic cardiac arrest following complete airway occlusion due to mucus plugging.

this was a 3-year-old girl who underwent gut sterilization with anti- biotics during an autologous transplantation 8. though total or selective gut sterilization during allo-hct is not practiced at our institution our patient nonetheless experienced severe gut derangements in the months following transplantation.our patient had no significant antibiotic exposure in the weeks before botulism onset figure 1a.

botulism may have arisen because of significant intestinal disruption and compromise and not directly from immune compromise.keywords.

we report a case of adult intestinal toxemia botu- lism that occurred in a recipient of an allogeneic hematopoie- tic cell transplant allo-hct 2 months into a hospitalization for cytomegalovirus cmv viremia and other post-transplant complications.case reporta 27-year-old male with fanconi anemia and secondary mye- lodysplastic syndrome underwent a t-cell-depleted allo-hct from his human leukocyte antigen hla-haploidentical mother 4 months before the case presentation.

b analysis of the intestinal microbiota by 16s rrna gene sequencing.

2014. available at http accessed 8 march 2017.chia jk clark jb ryan ca pollack m. botulism in an adult associated with food-borne intestinal infection with clostridium botulinum.

n engl j med 1986 315239-41.fenicia l franciosa g pourshaban m aureli p. intestinal toxemia botulism in two young people caused by clostridium butyricum type e. clin infect dis 1999 291381-7.sheppard yd middleton d whitfield y et al.

