ecase reporta case of pyometrocolpos with bifidobacterium speciesmaanasa m. bhaskar  sujatha sistla   s. kumaravel a department of microbiology jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and researchjipmer pondicherry indiab department of paediatric surgery jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and researchjipmer pondicherry indiaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 26 october 2016 received in revised form 12 january 2017accepted 14 january 2017available online 17 january 2017handling editor hanna pitucha b s t r a c t bifidobacterium species a normal commensal of the human gastrointestinal tract female genitourinary tract and vagina is usually considered non-pathogenic and is being used therapeutically as probiotic due to its beneficial effects.

there is a close relationship between the losses of genital microbiota and increasing incidence of utis hence replenishing it in the form of probiotics may be beneficial e. even though probiotics can be considered as the single most powerful alternative option under clinical development for treatment of chronic intractable conditions the usage of these probiotics in children and individuals with underlying conditions should be with caution.as seen in our case and other reports from the literature itshould be noted that if isolated from clinically appropriate spec- imen bifidobacterium species should not be dismissed as a contaminant.

however there are several case reports describing bifidobacterium species causing peritonitis urinary tract infections pulmonary infections septic prosthetic joint arthritis bacteraemia and sepsis e.case presentationa 4-years old developmentally normal girl child known case of bilateral hydroureteronephrosis on t. cefixime prophylaxis 2 weeks corresponding author.

bifidobacterium species could be considered as non pathogenic bacteria and infections caused by these bacteria are usu- ally overlooked or underestimated as they are part of the normal vaginal and gastrointestinal tract.

clinical outcome of the patient was good after emergency drainage and antibiotic treatment with cefoperazone sulbactam and metronidazole.keywords bifidobacterium probiotics pyometrocolposc 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.backgroundbifidobacteria are gram positive obligate anaerobic non- sporulating usually branched rod shaped bacteria.

definitive identification requires 16s rrna sequencing or analysis of metabolic products by gas liquid chromatography .in our case we feel that bifidobacterium species isolated from the pyometra pus was the sole pathogen and it is the combination of antibiotics as well as drainage of pus that has led to the symp- tomatic relief and recovery of the patient.

repeated urine cultures were also sent to rule out any urinary tract infection as the patient was a known case of bilateral hydroureteronephrosis and the cul- tures remained sterile.treatment givenon admission after the drainage of pus through the hymen patient was started on inj.

there can be a chance that probiotic was used in the past for this patient for the pre- vention and treatment of urinary tract infection as she is a known case of bilateral hydroureteronephrosis even though we could not elicit any probiotic usage in the past.

there are lot of studies demonstrating the beneficial role of using probiotics for the pre- vention and treatment of recurrent complicated and uncompli- cated urinary tract infections.

owing to its role in re-equilibrating the gut microbiota composition towards the health promoting bacterial population these organisms together with lactobacilli are therapeutically used in the form of probiotics and they have long been thought as non-pathogenic e. the efficacy and use of probiotics in various intestinal disorders has been extensively investigated.

to date more than 30 different species of bifidobacterium has been identified though they differ little in their genetic makeup.

to date more than 30 different species of bifidobacterium has been identified.

one of the in-vitro models demonstrated that bifidobacterium species acts mainly by reducing the colonic lipopolysaccharide concentration and thereby reducing the pro inflammatory state.

in spite of the beneficial role bifidobacterium species has been implicated in various infectious conditions viz.

infectious disease specialists and clinical microbiol- ogists should be aware of the fact that bifidobacterium is not just a part of the intestinal microbiota but also a potential pathogen.conflict of interestno potential conflict of interest relevant to this article was reported.references e.fie.a' e.d..e.e.e.ee.fl50m.m.

