enterobacteriales are positively associated with body weight gain total cholesterol insulin and leptin levels as well as with the inflammatory cytokines tnf-a il-6.54 our results showed that the hfd group excreted significantly higher proportions of enterobacteriales than the nd group p  0.05. cqr reduced the amount of enterobacteriales induced by hfd and this mayrelate to its effects of lowering body weights serum lipids andinflammatory cytokines.in this study the levels of coriobacteriales p  0.05 and coriobacteriaceae p  0.05 were reduced in the hfd group and cqr could reverse the changes p  0.05. the family coriobacteriaceae belonging to the phylum actinobacteria can be seen as paradigm pathobionts55 and the members of the family coriobacteriaceae are involved in bile acid metabolism which is linked to gut barrier and metabolic dysfunctions5156 and have a negative effect on cholesterol homeostasis through increasing cholesterol absorption.57 moreover the abundance of the coriobacteriaceae bacterial group was positively corre- lated with tg levels or non-hdl cholesterol levels.5657 with the consumption of cqr the coriobacteriaceae level wasdecreased p  0.05 and this may relate to the decrease of tg and tc in the cqr group.

after a one-week adaptation period rats were randomly divided into 2 groups as follows a normal diet group nd n  8 10 kcal fat consisted of 5.4 from soybean oil and 4.6 from lard 20 proteins 70 carbohydrates and a high fat diet group hfd n  24 45 kcal fat consisted of 5.6 from soybean oil and 39.4 from lard 20 proteins 35 carbo- hydrates as described elsewhere esi tables s1 and s2.17 the rats with body weights in the lower thirds were screened out as obesity-resistant rats after 2 weeks on hfd.19 the rest of the 16 rats were randomly divided into 2 sub-groups the cqr group n  8 and the hfd group n  8. the cqr group was treated with a high fat diet and administered with a mixture of r resveratrol 98 purity 34'5-trihydroxystilbene hangzhou ruishu biochemical co. ltd 501-36-0 15 mg per kg bw per day and q quercetin 95 purity 33'4'57-pentahydroxyfla- vone nanjing ze lang biological technology co. ltd 117-39-5 30 mg per kg bw per day while the hfd group was kept on a hfd and administered with carboxymethylcellulose sodium cmc-na20 by oral gavage for 8 weeks.

higher abundances of firmicutes were observed in the hfd group p  0.001. cqr significantly decreased the level of firmicutes p  0.05. the relative abun- dance of bacteroidetes showed a sharp decrease in the hfd group when compared to the nd group p  0.001. however relative to the hfd group bacteroidetes showed no significant difference with higher abundances in the cqr group fig.

cqr significantly decreased these serum lipid levels in comparison with the hfd group table 1 p  0.01. however the serum hdl-c concentration was lower in the hfd group p  0.01 and cqr significantly restored the level of hdl-c table 1 p  0.01. levels of serum insulin p  0.001 and leptin p  0.01 were increased while the adi- ponectin p  0.05 was decreased in the hfd group compared with the nd group.

lactobacillales an order of gram-positive bacteria that comprise lactic acid bacteria were significantly decreased in the hfd group compared to the other two groups p  0.001 and hfd feeding might inhibit the amount of fecal lactobacillales.4950 previous studies reported that the family desulfovibrionaceae is potentially an important group of endotoxin producers.51 the present model of hfd-induced inflammation was explained largely by dysbio- sis of gut microbiota and elevated concentration of lipopoly- saccharides lps in plasma a condition called metabolic endotoxemia.52 lps produced by the bacteria of the family desulfovibrionaceae has potent inflammation-inducing capacity.53 here a lower abundance of the family desulfo- vibrionaceae was discovered in the cqr group than in the hfd group which may help in alleviating inflammation.

in this study wistar rats were divided into three groups a normal diet nd group a hfd group and a cqr group.

in short wistar rats were divided into three groups a nd group a hfd group and a cqr group after two weeks.

at the otu level the community richness measured by the shannon index decreased significantly in the hfd group compared with the cqr group and the nd group fig.

firmicutes was the most abundant phylum in all samples accounting for 65 in the nd group 85 in the hfd group and 70 in the cqr group of the total bacterial sequences fig.

the ratio of firmicutesbacteroidetes was elevated in the hfd group which is consistent with many former studies4344 and it was lower in the cqr group 14.63 than the hfd group 23.78 with the difference close to significance p  0.052. both thefig.

red colors indicate high values whereas green colors mean low values for the percent of reads classified at that rank.relative abundances of bacteroidetes in the hfd group p  0.001 and the cqr group p  0.01 are significantly different from the nd group.

a higher abundance of akkermansia in the cqr group was observed in our study p  0.01. cqr supplementation for 8 weeks reduced the levels of lachnoclostridium p  0.001 and bilophila p  0.05 compared with the hfd group fig.

cqr dramati- cally changed the gut microbial community structure especially by reducing the abundances of firmicutes p  0.05. the microbiota in the intestine of an obese animal or human is accompanied by the increasing firmicutes level.39-41 moreover the increasing abundance of firmicutes in the gut microbiota of obese patients could increase the capacity ofharvesting energy from the diet thus promoting more efficientabsorption of calories and subsequent weight gain.42 this might be the reason that there was no significant difference of food intake among three groups while the weight gain p  0.01 of the hfd group was higher than the cqr group.

gut microbiota ruminococcaceae belonging to the phylum of firmicutes contains several buty- rate-producing bacteria58 having anti-inflammatory activities and might exert potential physiological functions in host health.59 in our study a lower abundance of ruminococcaceae was detected in the hfd group p  0.001 and cqr increased the level of this bacterium p  0.01. the genera of ruminococcaceaeucg-014 p  0.05 and rumino- coccaceaeucg-005 p  0.001 within the members of the family ruminococcaceae have lower abundance in the hfd group than the other two groups and cqr could alleviate diet- induced inflammation and obesity partially by increasing the level of these three bacteria p  0.01. lachnospiraceae a family of clostridia was observed to dominate in the hfd groups.

furthermore within thesecond most common phylum bacteroidetes the family bacteroidaless24-7group and the genus bacteroidaless24- 7groupnorank were clearly more numerous in the cqr group compared with the hfd group p  0.01. the increasing abun- dance of bilophila-containing clusters is positively associated with fat feeding and inflammation.6364 our data showed that cqr could dramatically reduce the abundance of the genus bilophila and then improve the gut health.

