many putative microbial metabolites like saligenin 12 were undetectable in unmetabolized wbe buttable 2  significantly increased and decreased microbial functions.significantly increased green and decreased red estimated microbial functions p  0.05 under different conditions wbe concentration time points compared to the vehicle control.

50 826-837. doi espin j. c. larrosa m. garcia-conesa m. t. and tomas-barberan f. 2013. biological significance of urolithins the gut microbial ellagic acid-derived metabolites the evidence so far.

phytomedicine 19 245-252. doi goodrich k. m. and neilson a. p. 2014. simultaneous uplc-msms analysis of native catechins and procyanidins and their microbial metabolites in intestinal contents and tissues of male wistar furth inbred rats.

wochenschr.157 348-351. doi nocker a. sossa-fernandez p. burr m. d. and camper a. k. 2007. use of propidium monoazide for livedead distinction in microbial ecology.

numerous microbial metabolites could be annotated allowing the construction of putative microbial degradation pathways for the main groups of wbe constituents.

we suggest that studies of this type help to increase the knowledge on bioactive principles of medicinal plants since gut microbial metabolites might have been underestimated as a source of bioactive compounds in the past.keywords lc-ms metabolomics 16s rrna sequencing human gut bacteria willow bark extract herbal medicinal product gut microbiomeintroductionthe human body hosts at least as many microbial as human cells sender et al.

text- formatted tables of uhplc-dad-hrms data processed with sieve 2.2 are included in this published article as supplementary tables 1-3. details on identification of wbe constituents are contained in in supplementary data sheet 1.resultsaddition of wbe has an effect on the composition of fecal microbial communities in vitroin order to assess the potential impact of wbe on fecal microbiota we analyzed the microbial composition of humanfecal suspension hfs incubated with wbe at concentrations of 0 mg ml pbs and vehicle control 2 mg ml and 10 mg ml at 0.5 4 and 24 h. one aliquot of each sample was treated with pma before dna extraction in order to mask background dna and to sharpen the results nocker et al.

the quick turnover and the rapid change in microbial composition indicated the immense activity of the microorganisms and thus quality of the sample processing no lag-phase and experimental set-up.by performing linear discriminant analysis coupled with effect size lefse we were able to identify 91 microbial taxa that were significantly increased or decreased under at least 4 conditions concentration time points compared to the vehicle control.

some clostridialeslachnospiraceae taxa appeared to relatively decrease first and increase at the later time points of sampling indicating a potential involvement in intermediate turnover.addition of wbe has an effect on the function of fecal microbial communities in vitroto obtain an overview on the functional capabilities of the microbial communities under different conditions we performed picrust analysis estimating the functions based on 16s rrna gene information langille et al.

a summary of known microbial degradation pathways and a comparison with data obtained in this study is provided in figure 6.one main compound that could be putatively attributed to the metabolism of catechin derivatives known so far was dihydroxyphenyl-g-valerolactone 28. in wbe 2 mgml incubated with hfs its levels initially increased but subsequently decreased again indicating its further microbial conversion.

this might be established by using metatranscriptomics as an additional experimental platform.conclusions and outlookthe combined application of 16s rrna sequencing and lc- ms metabolomics methods in a relatively simple in vitro experimental setup allowed first insights not only in the metabolism of wbe constituents by fecal microbiota but also in the impact of these constituents on fecal microbiota.next generation sequencing analysis of microbial dna revealed that incubation of fecal microbiota with wbe had a significant impact on composition and function of the fecal microbial community.

a 1262 130-137. doi ammar s. contreras m del m. belguith-hadrich o. bouaziz m. and segura- carretero a.

5 20035-20050. doi appeldoorn m. m. vincken j. p. aura a. m. hollman p. c. h. and gruppen h. 2009. procyanidin dimers are metabolized by human microbiota with 2-34-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and 5-34-dihydroxyphenyl-g- valerolactone as the major metabolites.

nature 473 174-180. doi bijttebier s. van der auwera a. voorspoels s. noten b. hermans n. pieters l. et al.

82 559-572. doi bokkenheuser v. d. shackletont c. h. l. and winter j.

