the same uppercase letters indicate a lack of statistically p  0.05 significant difference within each treatment throughout the frame time of the experiment.and respect to map treatment after 120 days a. meanwhile the m treatment did not significantly modify the fda hydrolysis in com- parison to p and map treatments at any time of experiment but it was lower when compared with map treatment at 180 days b. this result might not be associated with the pah degradation during m treatment but rather to an increase of the biomass and functionality of resident soil microbial population as the result of the presence of viable inocula of c. laeve andor the trophic contribution of the carrier used barley seeds which contains great amounts of potential growth sub- strates such as cellulose and hemicellulose .

conversely the soil microbial func- tionality in the map treatment was significantly increased compared to the na but it reached similar values to those found in m and p treat- ments except at 180 days at which time the fda hydrolysis was highly enhanced b. in this treatment the highest pah degradation values 58 were found which may suggest the combination of root exudates and inoculation of c. laeve provided for favorable conditions that assisted growth of hydrocarbon degraders.impact of treatments on soil fungal biotato assess the influence of the inoculation of c. laeve and maize plants on the soil fungal communities during the pah degradation the ergosterol content in soil was assayed c. ergosterol content was increased throughout the incubation period under the na treatment.

the ergosterol content was significantly increased during the experiment in p and map treatment reaching maximum values at 120 and 180 days but decreased at 60 and 150 days compared to na and m treatments c. the fluctuations in the ergosterol content in both p and map treatments are contradictory with the evidence that plant roots through exudates are able to stimulate the soil fungal biomass.

it was noteworthy that p treatment showed similar trends as were previously observed in the m treatment but the dehy- drogenase activity was significantly lower compared with map treat- ment at all the times tested a. it has to be assumed that this enhancement in the dehydrogenase activity in the map treatment could be associated with an increase in the resident soil microbiota as a consequence of an additive contribution of root exudates and c. laeve rather than a synergistic effect.

ergosterol was detected at 282 nm and quantified using a calibration curve with the pure standard.statistical analysisa pair-wise comparison one-way anova of individual pahs data in each treatment was performed using the tukey test p  0.05 with spss software version 17.0. the degradation percentage of each in- dividual pahs  in each treatment was calculated following the equation 100 ct100ct0 where ct refers to the content of each pahs at different times of sampling 60 120 150 and 180 days and ct0 refers to the content pahs at the initial time 0 days.

in this study na was the treatment in which the lowest values of dehydrogenase activity and fda hydrolysis were recorded in the time frame of the experiment as well as when compared with other treatments a b. interest- ingly this treatment showed a significant decline in the s 16 pahs after 180 days  which may indicate that the indigenous microbial communities are adapted and functional to the pah degradation.

the same lowercase letters indicate a lack of statistically significant differences p  0.05 among means within the same row.5-6 ring compound degradation a remarkable percentage of degrada- tion was significantly achieved in the case of bghip in an opposite trend to na treatment table s6 reaching percentages of degradation amounting to 40 after 180 days of experiment.

clearly p treatment led to higher 2-3 and 4 rings compound degradation than na and m treatments re- spectively indicating the potential characteristic of maize plants toclean up sites contaminated with aromatic compound duringphytoremediation approaches fig.

the pca analysis moreover indicated that 60-d m p and map treatments and 120-d m treatment were shown to be the less effective treatments de- grading ant bkf chr flu ipy phe and pyr as revealed their respective position in the left-lower quadrant.

the same lowercase letters indicate a lack of statistically significant differences p  0.05 among means within the same row.also serve as support for bacterial transport through the soil the al- teration of root exudates increasing bioavailability and biodegrad- ability of pahs andor trophic contribution as previously reported by .overall assessment of pah degradation integrated multivariate analysisa multivariate study based on principal component analysis was used to obtain insight into similarities or differences among treatments and the degradation of individual pahs and their respective interaction fig.

150-d 180-d na m and p treatments and 120- d 150-d and 180-d map treatments were separate from the other treatments by the first component fig.

however higher pah content in maize biomass was achieved during the map treatment respect to p treatment.

overall the pah degradation during the mycoaugmented treatment was not different in relation to na treatment suggesting that the colonization of the upper soil layer by c. laeve was hindered by the exceptional growth cap- abilities of indigenous soil microbiota.

the content of s16 pahs reached values up to 109.6 ug kg-1 in map treatment whereas in p treatment it was up to 73.9 ug kg-1 table s7.

interestingly nap acen phe and ant content were significantly increased in the map treatment when compared to p treatment.

