collagenase is up-regulated in the colonic mucosa fol- lowing anastomosis contributing to lysis of collagen and decreased anastomotic strength 60. it has been suggested that some patients are at increased risk of al as a result of pre-existing changes in the extracellular matrix such as a lower collagen type iiii ratio and higher expression of several collagenase subtypes in both the mucosa and submucosa 61.research challenge1 improved understanding of the molecular and bio- chemical pathways controlling the early balance of collagen synthesis and breakdown in anastomotic healing.optimizing anastomotic vascularityoptimal blood supply to the anastomosis is critical for healing.

in an attempt to quantify these risk factors following left-sided colorectal surgery a colon leakage score cls was developed and shown to have good predictive value 6. the patient-related factors cited as increasing al include male gender smoking obesity alcohol abuse preoperative steroid and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs longer operation duration preoperative transfusion contamination of the operative field and the urgency of the operation 4. a recent meta-analysis of 23 studies and 110 272 patients found that al was significantly associated with low rectal anas- tomosis or  3.26 95 ci 2.31-4.62 male genderor  1.48 95 ci 1.37-1.60 and preoperativeradiotherapy rt or  1.65 95 ci 1.06-2.56although the quality of evidence was regarded as mod- erate or low 7.the impact of rt on rates of al is a contentious issue particularly as the common practice of creating a defunctioning stoma in patients treated with rt can introduce bias into studies 8. the uk medical research council mrc cr07 randomized controlled trial rct reported no difference in al rates betweenpatients having preoperative rt or selective postopera- tive rt in a multicentre multinational randomized analysis of 1350 rectal cancer patients 9. in an interim analysis of the stockholm iii trial in rectal cancer com- paring short-course rt short-course rt with delay and long-course rt the effect of rt on al appeared to be related to the timing of surgery with a significant increase if it was performed between 11 and 17 days following the start of rt 10.in addition to patient-related factors and nonspecial- ist colorectal surgeons 11 lower institutional cancer case loads are associated with higher al rates 12. a meta-analysis including 13 040 rectal cancer patients demonstrated a significantly lower risk of al in favour of high-volume hospitals or  0.72 95 ci 0.48- 1.09. there was no significant difference among colon cancer patients 12.research challengesfurther validation of the colon leakage score as a universal tool for predicting al.improved understanding of the detrimental effects of radiotherapy on anastomotic healing.further assessment of case volume and specialization on al rates.anastomotic constructionthe role of specialization in reducing leakage rates highlights the importance of surgical technique in anas- tomotic construction.

it is hoped that this manuscript will stimulate the research that is needed to make an impact on a clin- ical problem that has defied the efforts of previous gen-erations.acknowledgementsthe following individuals also participated in the expert meeting on colorectal anastomotic leak b. george oxford university hospitals uk m. chand univer- sity college hospital uk m. reif novadaq tech- nologies inc. cananda and t. yeung university of oxford uk.disclosuresthis manuscript is the outcome from a meeting of expert colorectal surgeons and pathologists held in 2016 and supported by educational grants from nova- daq technologies inc. ontario canada and elemental healthcare berkshire uk.

should anastomotic assessment with flexible sigmoidoscopy be routine follow- ing laparoscopic restorative left colorectal resection colorectal dis 2015 17 160-4.li vk wexner sd pulido n et al.

subsequent validation in patients undergoing sphincter-preserving surgery of the rectum demonstrated an overall leakage rate of 7.5 with a severity of 16 grade a 23 grade b and 61 grade c 3. despite attempts at standardization al continues to be variably reported with an incidence ranging widely from 5 to 19 depending on the site and type of anastomosis and the cohort under investiga- tion 4. to complicate the situation further many studies fail to take into account subclinical or radiologi- cal leakage despite the recognized association with poor bowel function and anastomotic stricture formation 5.research challenge1 integration of standard validated definition and reporting of al into clinical trials.risk factors for anastomotic leakagemuch has been written about the risk factors for al in an attempt to guide surgeons as to when anastomosis is appropriate.

although the ghost ileostomy appears to be feasible incohort studies 4950 its role is yet to be determined by randomized controlled evidence.research challengeimproved selection criteria for patients undergoing a defunctioning stoma.further determine the role of 'ghost' ileostomy in association with a high-risk anastomosis.intra-operative prediction of anastomotic leakagethe air leak test is a well-established technique to intraoperatively check the anastomotic integrity immedi- ately after completion of the anastomosis.

in the event of a pos- itive air test suture repair alone may be associated with a high al rate and the evidence suggests that in this sit- uation the anastomosis should be revised andor defunctioned 52-54.intra-operative endoscopy allows assessment of anas- tomotic integrity bleeding from the staple line and the detection of any additional pathology 5255. although intra-operative endoscopy has been shown to be a safe and reliable technique studies comparing its routine with selective use have been underpowered 5556. without a large randomized control trial any benefit of routine intra-operative endoscopy in prevent- ing al cannot be determined.research challenge1 evaluation of intra-operative endoscopy to assess anastomotic integrity.anastomotic healingunderstanding the pathophysiology of anastomotic healing is crucial to the development of new treatmentand preventative strategies.

76 have shown that anastomotic injury results in a change in anastomotic tissue-associated microbiota with a notable 500-fold and 200-fold increase in the relative abundance of enterococcus and escherichiashigella species respectively.

the main radiological modalities used to diagnose al are water-soluble contrast enema wsce and ct but data on their accuracy are limited by the timing of the study and the expertise of the radiologist 98. wsce is safe despite fears concerning anastomotic disruption 99 but its sensitivity and specificity can be poor with reported figures of 52 and 87 respec- tively in left-sided anastomoses 100. in comparison the sensitivity and specificity of ct scanning are reported to be 57 and 100 respectively after total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer 101. it is possible that a combination of the techniques using ct with rectal contrast improves diagnostic accuracy 102.the use of biosensors to sample the anastomoticenvironment via an intraluminal or microdialysis cathe- ter may allow early detection of anastomotic disruption 55. this technique allows rapid analysis at multiple time points.

these findings suggest that bacterial translocation has occurred within the first 3- 5 days of the after anastomosis construction even if frank leakage of intraluminal contents has not occurred by that time.changes in electrical resistance have also been associ- ated with anastomotic disruption 108. the use of serum c-reactive protein crp as a marker of al is probably limited by its poor specificity but it has been suggested that a crp above 150 mmoll on postopera- tive days 3-5 may be predictive and a trigger for further investigation 4.research challengesthe optimal radiological techniques to detect al.identification of the preferred biomarkers for detect- ing early al.development of real-time bedside methods for detecting early al.management strategies for anastomotic leakagemany factors have to be considered when deciding the best treatment for a patient with al.

a collaborative review of the current concepts and challenges of anastomotic leaks in colorectal surgerya.

h. kennedy b. moran n. mortensen r. w. motsonssss r. novellpp p. r. o'connellris t. rockall a. senapati a. windsorssssss and d. g. jayneppproyal college of surgeons of england london uk cleveland clinic florida weston florida usa university college dublin dublin irelandssderriford hospital plymouth uk puniversity hospital of south manchester manchester uk basingstoke and north hampshire hospital basingstoke uk st mark's hospital london uk oxford university hospitals oxford uk ssssthe iceni centre colchester university hospital colchester uk ppthe royal free hospital london uk geneva university hospitals and medical school geneva switzerland royal surrey county hospital guildford uk portsmouth hospitals portsmouth uk ssssssuniversity college hospital london uk and pppuniversity of leeds leeds ukreceived 16 may 2016 accepted 27 july 2016 accepted article online 27 september 2016abstractthe reduction of the incidence detection and treatment of anastomotic leakage al continues to challenge the colorectal surgical community.

systematic review of pre-operativeintraoperative and postoperative risk factors for colorectal anastomotic leaks.

predicting the risk of anastomotic leak- age in left-sided colorectal surgery using a colon leakage score.

j surg res 2011 166 e27-34.pommergaard hc gessler b burcharth j angenete e haglind e rosenberg j. pre-operative risk factors for anastomotic leakage after resection for colorectal cancer a systematic review and meta-analysis.

