the mean age of patients was 22.1 y range 16e37 y and of controls23.6 y range 18e30 y. the leeds score of patients ranged from 3 to 8 mean 4.42.no growth of c. acnes was obtained from follicle samples of 5 patients and one control.characterization of bacterial isolatesfor initial typing of all 795 isolates obtained from follicles and surface skin of patients and controls a combination of the allelic sequences of the housekeeping genes fba and reca were used ac- cording to the mlsa scheme .

the nucleotide patterns of 54 homopolymeric tracts previously identified in c. acnes genomes were inspected for differences associated with the clinical origin of the strains using the sybil database available at as reference.presence of plasmid dna as detected in some c. acnes strains was examined by pcr amplification using four primer sets 1 forward primer p1f gggcacctgtaagcctgtat and reverse primer pir gatcgcgtgggaggtcttc 2 forward primer p2f attgcccgtccatgtcgatg and reverse primer p2r cgaaaccggcgtggaaaag and 3 forward primer p3f tcttggtgctatcgccttgg and reverse primer p3r tgggac- gaggtagtcgagtta 4 forward primer tada gggtaaccat- gaggtggttgandreverseprimertada-rev ctgaacggatctgctcaaca targeting four distinct and conserved loci in the plasmids previously detected in c. acnes strains .resultsstudy subjectsthe 23 study subjects included 11 females 5 acne patients and 6 controls and 12 males 7 acne patients and 5 controls .

in acne patients the dominant types in follicles all belonged to the cc18 complex including st 18 4 patients and st 12 2 patients with the exception of one isolate belonging to the cc3 complex st3.

finally attempts to amplify several genes characteristic of plasmid dna in c. acnes from both crude and purified cellular dna resulted in amplicons only in strain 441l1.discussionthe present study was undertaken to obtain a detailed com- parison between the clonal complexity and dominant c. acnes clones in follicles from patients with moderate to severe acne and healthy individuals.

all patients were untreated for acne at least three months prior to sampling except patient 9 who had received oral tetracycline and topical adapalene treatment for 1 month before sampling.skin samples and bacterial isolatessebaceous follicles were sampled by cyanoacrylate biopsy from an acne-affected facial area of patients and from the side of the nose of controls.

if no growth was detected from follicles then up to 30colonies were isolated from facial skin of the person.pcr and sequencing of bacterial dnapreparation of bacterial dna and subsequent pcr and sequencing of internal fragments of the nine housekeeping genes cel coa fba gms lac oxc pak reca and zno was performed ac- cording to the multi locus sequence typing mlst scheme described previously .genome sequencing and comparisonin order to compare cc18 isolates from patients and controls eleven isolates including five from acne patients and six from controls were genome-sequenced by paired-end sequencing with 50x coverage using illumina hiseq 2000 technology and assembled at bgi beijing china.

for interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend the reader is referred to the web version of this article.table 2number of different clones detected in 12 acne patients and 11 controls at each sample site.locationacne patientscontrolsfollicles1.71 1e32.1 1e4facial skin3.0 1e82.18 1e4skin of upperback2.0 1e52.37 1e4all locations4.25 1e104.27 2e7a mean lowest-highest.all dominant follicular c. acnes types from patients belonged to the clonal complex cc18 with the exception of one patient domi- nated by the st3 clone.

the reason for this is not clear but it may be due to less c. acnes residing in the highly inflammatory lesions of patients with more severe acne as previously suggested .the use of furazolidone in agar plates inhibits the growth of other bacteria especially s. epidermidis and it is not known if interaction between these bacteria and c. acnes could lead to a different clonal distribution .

scholz  h. bruggemann  h. tettelin  m. kilian a department of biomedicine faculty of health aarhus university dk-8000 aarhus denmarkb department of microbiology and immunology institute for genome sciences university of maryland school of medicine baltimore md 21201 usaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 27 january 2017 received in revised form 22 march 2017accepted 14 april 2017available online 19 april 2017 handling editor audrey n schuetzkeywordspathogenesis propionibacterium acnes cutibacterium acnes acnemultilocus sequence typing human microbiomeclonal typinga b s t r a c t background cutibacterium propionibacterium acnes is assumed to play an important role in the path- ogenesis of acne.objectives to examine if clones with distinct virulence properties are associated with acne.methods multiple c. acnes isolates from follicles and surface skin of patients with moderate to severe acne and healthy controls were characterized by multilocus sequence typing.

the dominating c. acnes clones in follicles from acne patients were exclusively from the phylogenetic clade i-1a and all belonged to clonal complex cc18 with the exception of one patient dominated by the worldwide-disseminated and often antibiotic resistant clone st3.

to determine if cc18 isolates from acne patients differ from those of controls in the possession of virulence genes or lack of genes conducive to a harmonious coexistence the full genomes of dominating cc18 follicular clones from six patients and five controls were sequenced.results individuals carried one to ten clones simultaneously.

detailed information of such traits may lead to a better under- standing of the acne pathogenesis and to improved and more tar- geted treatment options.to further clarify if specific clones with specific genetic prop- erties are associated with acne the present study was undertaken to compare the dominating c. acnes clones from carefully selected moderate to severe acne patients and acne-free controls.materials and methodsethics statementthe study protocol was approved by the ethics committee of the county of aarhus and the study was conducted according to the principles of the declaration of helsinki.

2. the composition of c. acnes clonal complexes detected in samples from all patients p1-p12 and controls c1-c11.

3. clonal relations of the dominating follicular c. acnes clones in acne patients and controls.

also the american inclusion of many patients with only mild acne leads score 2 as a mean and patient samples taken from healthy follicles not involved in the acne process may be important.

