.gavin c pokrovskii a prentice m sobolev v. 2006. dynamics of a lotka-volterra type model with applications to marine phage popula- tion dynamics.

members of the plankton ecosystem viruses bacteria archaea protists and metazoans have recently been systematically collected in their natural habitats  to explore ecosystem dynamics at the ocean scale.

different levels of abstraction can be defined determined by the community dynamics at the core of the research question.

developed a glv model to describe the dynamics of marine phages preying on bacteria .

the equation form of the model is interpreted as a cooperation mechanism for phage predation andpredicts that the community follows kill-the-winner dynamics where blooming periods are followed by rapid decay.

individual-based models ibms --sometimes referred to as agent-based models--implement monte carlo tech- niques to introduce the randomness required to model the dynamics of single indi- viduals.

under- standing the metabolic cooperation dynamics is fundamental and the bacterial com- position relative abundance and spatial distribution of the species of a biofilm is mainly determined by three processes that take place within the film i conversion of substrates by bacteria ii volume expansion of biomass and iii transport of substrates by molecular diffusion.

where solute diffusion and reaction dynamics are considered to be in a quasi-steady state with respect to biomass growth.

in dynamic fba dfba  for example metabolism is considered to occur faster than external metabolite concentration changes and it is modeled with cbms at a quasi-steady state whereas the slower external dynamics are modeled as differential equations.

coupled these temporal dynamics with spatial discretization in a modeling framework that integrates dfba and pdes.

simulations of cross-feeding bacterial communities could predict cooperation and competition dynamics emerging from the spatial distribution of colonies and nutrients followed by experimental verification.smriga et al.

2016. challenges in microbial ecology building predictive understand- ing of community function and dynamics.

2014. mathematical mod- eling of microbial community dynamics a methodological review.

.salta m wharton ja blache y stokes kr briand j-f. 2013. marine biofilms on artificial surfaces structure and dynamics.

1994. partial differential equa- tions in ecology spatial interactions and population dynamics.

