u. scher c. ubeda a. artacho m. attur s. isaac s. m. reddy s. marmon a. neimann s. brusca t. patel j. manasson e. g. pamer d.r.

a dynamic cross-talk between the skin surface and the immune system resulting from the direct exposure to microbiota could be relevant to a number of addi- tional antigen-driven disorders for which skin barrier is compromised such as psoriasis allergic contact dermatitis and autoimmune blister- ing disorders.we used a well-established swabbing technique39-41 and next- generation sequencing technologies to compare the skin microbiome in patients with bp and matched controls at multiple body sites due to the skin microbiota displaying site-dependent patterns.7unlike the gut in inflammatory bowel disease or inflamed skin in atopic dermatitis where microbial richness is reduced compared to healthy age-matched controls42-44 no difference was observed in the skin of bullous pemphigoid patients vs. controls.

h. kong j. oh c. deming s. conlan e. a. grice m. a. beatson e. nomicos e. c. polley h. d. komarow nisc comparative sequence program p. r. murray m. l. turner j. a. segre.

supporting this possibility we recently identified host genetic loci that contribute to variability in bacterial taxon abundances in the skin and also demon- strated that individual genotype-dependent microbial risk factors modify susceptibility to epidermolysis bullosa acquisita in a murine model.2encouraged by these findings we aimed to characterise and com- pare the skin microbiota of patients with bp and matched controls at numerous distinct sites in order to determine the extent to which the composition of the skin microbiota differs between patients and healthy controls.2  methods  study populationtwelve patients with bp from the departments of dermatology at universities of lubeck and kiel were sampled between august 2014 and january 2015. all patients had typical immunopathological find- ings including the deposition of iggc3 at the dermal-epidermal junc- tion by direct immunofluorescence microscopy as well as circulating autoantibodies reactive with the epidermal side of nacl-split human skin by indirect immunofluorescence microscopy andor bp180 by elisa.

turroni s. gonzalez a. suarez m. gueimonde m. ventura b. sanchez a. margolles mbio 2014 5 e01548.m.

k. wright m. a. kamm s. m. teo m. inouye j. wagner c. d. kirkwood inflamm.

comparing perilesional sites to non- lesional sites within patients revealed that only actinobacteria were significantly different between p and n sites in patients padj.0148.although proteobacteria are the most abundant phylum in con- trol- figure 2a 'n ctr' and patient non-lesional sites figure 2a 'n pat' we saw a difference in the second most abundant phylum-- actinobacteria vs. firmicutes respectively.

a genus of interest belonging to firmicutes is staphylococcus.a high relative abundance of staphylococcus and s. aureus in partic- ular was reported for atopic dermatitis ad inflamed skin when com- pared to both non-inflamed skin of patients with ad and to healthy controls.42 this observation correlates with the well-known high per- centage of s. aureus nasal carriage among these patients.

accepted 4 april 2017 doi 10.1111exd.13357original ar ticle a distinct cutaneous microbiota profile in autoimmune bullous disease patientsmor miodovnik1  axel kunstner23  ewan a. langan456  detlef zillikens26  regine glaser7  eli sprecher1  john f. baines38  enno schmidt26  saleh m. ibrahim261department of dermatology tel aviv sourasky medical center tel aviv israel2lubeck institute of experimental dermatology lied university of lubeck lubeck germany3max planck institute for evolutionary biology plon germany4institute of medical microbiology und hygiene university of lubeck lubeck germany5department of dermatological science division of musculoskeletal  dermatological sciences university of manchester manchester uk6department of dermatology university of lubeck lubeck germany7department of dermatology christian- albrechts-university of kiel kiel germany8institute for experimentalmedicine christian-albrechts-university of kiel kiel germanycorrespondencemor miodovnik department of dermatology tel aviv sourasky medical center tel aviv israel.email funding informationgerman science foundation dfg excellence cluster 3062 german centre for infection research dzif1  introduction the skin is in constant contact with the environment and serves a crit- ical barrier function but also provides a range of niches to inhabiting microbes.12 the term cutaneous microbiome refers to the microbi- ological biota which colonises the human skin.3 understanding theabbreviations 16s rrna 16s ribosomal rna gene otu operational taxonomic units.mor miodovnik john f. baines enno schmidt and saleh m. ibrahim contributed equally.

chehoud s. rafail a. s. tyldsley j. t. seykora j. d. lambris e. a. grice proc.

a. grice h. h. kong g. renaud a. c. young g. g. bouffard r. w. blakesley t. g. wolfsberg m. l. turner j. a. segre nisc comparative sequencing program.

srinivas s. moller j. wang s. kunzel d. zillikens j. f. baines s. m. ibrahim nat.

l. kolho k. korpela t. jaakkola m. v. pichai e. g. zoetendal a. salonen a. w. m. de vos am.

steinhoff u. neisius a. ikoma m. fartasch g. heyer p. s. skov t.luger m. schmelz j. neurosci.

currently the most effective approach relies on amplifying the phylogenetically in- formative 16s ribosomal rna gene 16s rrna.4-6recent studies have revealed that the composition of the skin mi- crobiome is diverse and varies for different skin locations and under distinct biological circumstances.7 a multitude of interactions between the skin microbiota host and environment contribute to community structure over space and time and its potential contribution to changesexperimental dermatology.

