The vector of the score statistics among taxa might generally be expected to exhibit negative correl- ations because the total taxa count is bounded by the sequencing depth.

It is de- sirable to incorporate the taxonomic information into the analyses of the microbiome composition because the ecological roles played by the microbial communities are different at various taxonomic lev- els and changes in the structure of the microbiota that are associ- ated with covariates can occur at any taxonomic levels and along any relevant lineages of the tree  .Association analysis of the microbiome composition proves chal-lenging for several reasons the number of taxa is large relative to the sample size the count data are sparse for many taxa with exces- sive zero observations and total counts across taxa are constrained by the sequencing depth .

In the view of the fact that the sum of the proportions over taxa is bounded by 1 we induced an abundance difference between two groups by applying a swapping procedure to change abundances of two taxa at a time increase the abundance in one taxon and decrease in the other without disturb- ing other taxa.

The secondour framework in the detection of associations between the human microbiome and two disorders psoriasis and obesity.Methods2.1 Quasi-conditional association test QCATSuppose that we have n subjects measured on m th 1 taxa.

The DM test is often applied to taxa at high taxonomic levels e.g.

The proportions of the 7 taxa are calculated from the relative abun- dance among the 7 log-normal samples.

The results forwere performed based on the same taxonomic tree.Q  Qand Qtests are not shown under the log-normal2ZEROPOSSimulation studiesWe simulated taxa counts for two groups with an equal number ofmodel because the two-part test degenerates to the one-part testTable 1.

The PERMANOVA MiRKAT and MiSPU tests have low power because the differentiation is too subtle to be de- tected by jointly considering all the taxa on the tree.

The root nodes of the discovered lineages are annotated by the names of the corresponding taxa.

The differentiation of the identified lineage is driven mainly by the differences in the presenceabsence frequencies of taxa in those lineages.

