with a number p of factors the factor analysis tries to find p fac- tors that represent the covariance matrix as well as possible which implies that the estimated two factors of a 2-factor model can represent the covariance matrix bet- ter than or as well as any pair of factors of a p-factor model can do where p  2. note that the focus of gomms is tologmij  bi0  bi1fj1    bipfjpwhere ph is an overdispersion parameter of the quasi-poisson qp distribution bi0 serves as a specific or unique factor loading for the ith sample that depends on the sequencing depth bik is the kth factor loading for the ith rate profile and fjk is the kth factor score for the jth feature where i  1... n j  1... m and k  1... p. in this model the logarithm is the canonical link function for a poisson model in the general- ized linear model glm framework in this model the mean and dispersion of the observed count isexij  1 - ejmij varxij  1 - ejphmijwhere ph is used to account for extra-variability.

a family of poisson factor models exists that can be used for ordination analysis however they are not suitable for microbiome data in which apparent overdispersion has been evidenced li in this article we pro- pose a new glm-based ordination method for microbiome samples gomms that uses a zero-inflated quasi-poisson ziqp factor model.

we illustrate the method in simulations and an analysis of microbiome samples from nasopharynx and oropharynx.key words 16s sequencing factor models microbiome zero-inflated modelsintroductionin microbiome studies it is often of interest to visually inspect compositional differences among microbiome samples before conducting stringent statistical tests on characteristics of the samples.

as shown in figure 2 under a strong disper- sion effect pcoa tends to show a mean difference however nmds tends not to display any mean difference whether or not there is a mean difference clearly showing the potential problems of the distance-based ordination methods.data generated from zero-inflated negative binomial distributions with taxon-specific dispersion parameterssecondly we used a zero-inflated negative binomial zinb model with randomly generated mean counts for taxa namelyxij  ej ixij  0  1 - ejnbmij phj ixij  0different scenarios with various differences in means andor dispersions.

moreover we find a significant correlation between a covariate the elapsed time from the last smoke and an estimated factor for the oropharyngeal sam- ples from smokers implying a possible effect of smoking on short-term changes in oropharyngeal microbial communities which is an interesting hypothesis for a future confirmatory experiment.accurately display properties of data in a low dimensional space not to identify the optimal number of latent factors that explain most of the variation in data as in typical factor analysis.ziqp factor modeltypical microbiome data consist of highly skewed non- negative counts with an excess of zeros.

let xij denote a count assigned to taxon j in sample i. applying a factor approach to the log of rate mij a ziqp factor model can be given bymethodsin the factor analysis we aim to find latent variables or factorsxij 0with probability ejqpm  ph with probability 1 - e 2f  f ...f t which represent unobserved constructssuch that factors can capture variability among correlatedobserved variables x  x1... xmt with a smaller number of variables i.e.

each observed variable is modeled as a linear combination of factorsxj  bj1f1    bjpfp  ej1where ej represents the jth unique component including a ran- dom error and j  1 2... m. a graphical representation of this factor model is given in figure 1.for an exploratory analysis a factor model doesn't place any structure on the linear relationships between observed variables nor between observed variables and factors.

overall we considered a total of 400 simulations for each case including 100 simulations where there is no mean or dispersion differences 100 simulations where there is a mean difference but no dispersion difference 100 simulations where there is a dispersion difference but no mean difference and 100 simulations where there are both mean and dispersion differences.

then the log quasi-likelihood function for the ziqp model 2 can be expressed asfthx   log 1e- 1 - e  expbif tj  ljxij0 jphf expbif tj  x - txij0log1 - ej xijdt  4phtfigure 1. a graphical representation of a factor model for an example involving p orthogonal factors and m observed variables.where th  e b f  ph.

for the range of the rate parameter we used the prod- ucts of randomly selected values of the three parameters an expected common mean uj  int1 10 for taxon j a difference factor wj  int2 5 for taxon j between two pop- ulations and a sample scale si  int1 10 for sample i to mimic different sequencing depths where inta b denotes any randomly selected integer between a and b. for the mix- ture parameter ej for sample j we used ej  exp-4.6mj to make the probability of true zero depending on the means.

we observed in our simulations that even the true models include a large number of latent factors fitting the proposed model with two to three factors can reveal the differences in means or dispersions between two populations.gomms resolves the problems of the distance-based approach and also provides a way to link characteristics of a microbial community with covariates of interest through estimated latent factors.

in other words there is no mean difference in taxa between the two populations but a strong difference in dispersions of the two populations.

four scenarios are presented where each population is represented by a different color and white circles represents samples in a population with higher dispersion.table 1sizepower comparison based on hotelling's two-sample t 2 test for mean difference between two populations using the estimated coordinates at a  0.01. for each entry the first number is the empirical test size and the second number is the power.no difference in dispersionsdifference in dispersionsthere are little or no mean or dispersion difference in the samples of the left and right sides of the upper respiratory tract p  0.98 for nasopharynx and p  0.98 for oropharynx hotelling's t tests.

denote bnxp1 as a factor coefficient or loading matrix f mxp1 as a factor matrix with a vector of 1's in the first column and bi and f j as the ith row of b and the jth row of f  respectively.

accounting for high sparsity and overdispersion of microbiome data we propose a glm-based ordination method for microbiome samples gomms in this article.

