specifically prior to low-dose dss exposure we colonized germ-free mice with either i h. bilis plus all eight asf members ii h. bilis plus the asf with- out 356 the major immune-dominant member iii h. bilis plus the asf without 356 and 361 the two most immune-dominant members and iv h. bilis plus the asf without 457 an asf member that is not immune targeted.

ef il-17a secretion from cd4 t cells isolated from the mesenteric lymph nodes of either h. bilis mono-associated mice e or asf-bearing mice colonized with h. bilis f and stimulated with whole-cell sonicate antigens from each of the individual asf members or h. bilis n  4-5 pools of 2-3 animals per pool per treatment.pairwise comparisons in e and f were performed with respect to unstimulated cells.

experiments were performed usingmale and female c3hhen mice at 8-10 wks of age mice were colonized with h. bilis for 3 wks.production of tnf-a and il-22 was elevated in h. bilis-asf versus h. bilis mono-associated mice but dss treatment did not further increase the secretion of either cytokine fig.

e histopathological disease scores for cecal tissues from germ-free gf asf-bearing h. bilis mono-associated and h. bilis colonized asf-bearing mice either treated with 1.5 dss or left untreated.

thus even though h. bilis by itself induces moderate disease following a low-dose of dss the pres- ence of the asf community is necessary for severe disease indicating that the resident microbiota exacerbates pathobiont-mediated inflammation.the pathobiont and resident microbiota synergistically induce a pro-inflammatory response associated with disease.

by using the defined asf community in both wild-type and rag1-- mice we systematically identified i the relative contribution of the pathobiont and the microbiota to disease severity ii to what degree disease was associated with changes in the microbial commu- nity composition iii the role of the adaptive immune system in disease iv the specific microbes towards which immune responses were directed and v the contributions of immune-targeted taxa to the disease process.resultspathobiont colonization can induce an equivalent degree of disease in mice with a conven- tional or defined microbiota.

cytokine production was considered specific to a certain asf member if there were significant increases over i unstimulated t cells isolated from the same mice ii antigen-stimulated t cells harvested from equivalently-treated mice not harboring the asf community and iii antigen-stimulated t cells from asf-bearing mice treated with dss but not colonized with h. bilis.cd4 t cells isolated from severely diseased h. bilis-asf-dss mice produced significantly elevated lev-els of il-17a when stimulated with antigens from either asf 356 asf 361 and to a lesser extent asf 502 as compared to h. bilis mono-associated-dss mice fig.

ab il-17a secretion from cd4 t cells isolated from the mesenteric lymph nodes of germ-free gf asf-bearing h. bilis mono-associated and h. bilis colonized asf bearing mice treated with 1.5 dss or left untreated.

a-f asterisks depict the degree of significance for differences as determined by a non-parametric unpaired mann-whitney test using a two-tailed distribution for p-value calculations p  0.05 p  0.01  p  0.001 p  0.0001 and ns  not significant p  0.05.experiments were performed using male and female c3hhen mice at 8-10 wks of age mice were colonizedwith h. bilis for 3 wks.disease susceptibility in h. bilis colonized and dss-treated mice harboring either a complete asf community or asf communities lacking immune dominant strains fig.

these features differentiate the pathobiont characteristics of h. bilis from other pathobionts such as the adherent and invasive escherichia coli strain lf82 aiec lf82 which elicits chronic colitis and brings about changes in microbiota composition after disruption of innate immune signaling.perhaps the most striking characteristic of the severe intestinal inflammation observed in asf mice colo-nized with h. bilis and exposed to low-dose dss is the requirement for a microbiota.

because h. bilis colonization exacerbated disease equiva- lently in both conv and asf microbiota mice following dss treatment this defined model now permits the study of exact immune-microbe interactions during disease.the resident microbiota acts synergistically with the pathobiont to induce severe disease.

given the require- ment of both the pathobiont and asf microbiota for severe disease the pattern of immunoreactivity targeting immune-dominant asf members but not h. bilis demonstrates that this pathobiont can elicit th17 immune responses against the resident microbiota and bring about intestinal inflammation without being the primary immunological target.removing immune-dominant gut symbionts redirects the th17 immune response to other asf members and does not alter the severity of pathobiont-mediated disease.

experiments were performed using male and female c3hhen mice at 8-10 wks of age mice were colonized with h. bilis for 3 wks.here we explore these inter-relationships using a mouse model harboring the altered schaedler flora asf in which disease can be induced through the addition of the pathobiont helicobacter bilis and a sub-pathological dose of dextran sulfate sodium dss.

antigen-specific il-22 production from cd4 t cells harvested from h. bilis-asf-dss mice was observed upon stimulation with antigens from asf 356 but not following stimulation with h. bilis antigens fig.

in contrast rag1-- h. bilis-asf-dss mice experienced significantly less severe disease compared to their wt counterparts confirming a pathological role for the adaptive immune system in pathobiont-mediated disease fig.

