characterization of the exercise-induced bacterial phylotypes indicated an increase in bacteria likely capable of degrading resistant polysaccharides and an increase in short chain fatty acid producers.conclusions while a significant effect of exercise on microbiota composition occurred in sc-fed rats the hf-fed rats microbiota showed little response.

microbial communities from rats fed a sc diet were highly differentiated based on activity inter- vention with the hiit.sc group rats having the highest similarity in microbiota between rats within the same group but distinct to other activity groups.

although links between physical activity diet and gut microbiota have been recognized previous studies have not compared the effect of different activity typesintensities and diets on gut microbiota which may be important in better understanding how changes to activity and diet can influence health via gut microbiota.

although diets were named simi- larly as high fat and low fat sc they were not compara- ble based on composition and this would strongly influence microbiota responses for each treatment as would differences in starting microbiota composition.our study identified a number of bacteria that charac- terize microbiota shifts in response to training.

2015. therefore it can be suggested that using rats for microbiota studies appropriately models microbiota interactions in humans.in a recent study petriz et al.

in rats fed sc significant differences in intestinal microbiota were evident between exercised and nonexercised rats.

2008 who reported alter- ation in the microbiota content in nonobese voluntary wheel-exercised rats compared to control sedentary rats.

colour figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.comlachnospiraceaemicrobiota by transferring faecal material from human donors into mice and rats rats were effectively colonized with and closely reflected the communities of the donors while humanized gnotobiotic mice were not able to effec- tively transfer low abundance microbiota reviewed in nguyen et al.

dalbo1 a.t. scanlan1 m.j. duncan12 r.j. moore3 and d. stanley1school of medical and applied sciences central queensland university rockhampton queensland australiaschool of medicine  public health priority research centre for physical activity and nutrition faculty of health and medicine the university of newcastle university drive callaghan new south wales australiaschool of science rmit university bundoora victoria australiakeywordsdiet fat fibre high-intensity interval training hiit intestinal microbiota light-intensity training.correspondencedragana stanley school of medical and applied sciences central queensland univer- sity bruce highway building 6 room 2.33 rockhampton qld 4702 australia.e-mail 20161639 received 26 march 2016 revised15 january 2017 and accepted 23 february2017doi10.1111jam.13442abstractaims intestinal microbiota modulates the development of clinical conditions including metabolic syndrome and obesity.

this study aimed to investigate the ability of exercise to re-shape the intestinal microbiota and the influence of the diet on the process.methods and results a rat model was used to examine the intestinal microbiota responses to four activity conditions including high-intensity interval training hiit light-intensity training lit sedentary and normal control each containing two nutritional conditions high-fat high-fructose diet hf and standard chow sc diet.

2012. it is now accepted that a western diet can turn microbiota into obesity promoting faecal trans- plant of this microbiota to lean subjects will cause obesity in recipients regardless of the diet ridaura et al.

based on the current knowledge surrounding exercise and microbiota we hypothesized that different bacterial cohorts will drive microbiota shifts relative to the inten- sity of activity undertaken in standard chow sc and hf diets.

no between-group differences in weight were observed at week 0 or 12 of the intervention.overall microbiota compositionboth diet and activity intensity correlated with significant changes in microbiota between the eight groups.

the microbiota response to activity intensity will vary from experiment to experiment depending on the basal starting microbiota present in the particular cohort of animals used.

the hf diet how- ever induced similar but much weaker changes to scfa-producing microbiota which is most likely due to low fibre demonstrating the superior influence of diet over activity on microbiota response.the data we presented show numerous phylotypes dif- ferential between the sed and ctl groups.

