this cycle can have major implications on the health and wealth of the community contributing to the maintenance of the poverty trap.in this study we investigated the asymptomatic carriage of viral and bacterial enteric pathogens by adults in three traditional populations in remote regions of papua new guinea and searched for correlations between pathogen carriage and previously determined gut microbial community composition data.stool samples were collected from participants in two highland regions of papua new guinea from february through march 2012 and one lowland site in september 2012 as outlined previously.demographic data history of recent antibiotic use and dietary information were also collected as previously discussed.participants were excluded from the study if they reported diarrhea or antibiotic use in the past 2 weeks before sample collection.nucleic acids were extracted from stool samples using a modified phenolchlorophorm extraction methodand tested for a range of bacterial and viral enteric pathogens using previously published real-time pcrrt-pcr assays as out- lined in soli et al.. the pathogens targeted in this study were the viruses rotavirus norovirus gi and gii adenovirus types address correspondence to paul f. horwood australian institute of tropical health and medicine james cook university cairns 4870 queensland australia.

papua new guinea has the highest incidence of diarrhea in the western pacific region for children  5 years old moreover the decline in diarrheal in- cidence between 1990 and 2010 in papua new guinea has been modest by regional and global standards.recent re- ports have stated that papua new guinea is one of only three countries globally with rates of access to safe water sources below 50 which undoubtedly contributed to the recent cholera outbreak in the country.further research is needed to determine the factors leading to the high rates of pathogen car- riage observed in the highland populations included in this study.received april 6 2017. accepted for publication august 8 2017. published online september 25 2017.acknowledgments we thank all study participants for their contri- bution to this study.

there was no observable dif- ference in population numbers of key groups of the normal gut flora in study participants who were pathogen carriage posi- tive compared with those who were negative for the carriage of pathogens 1.our study detected unexpectedly high rates of pathogen carriage particularly norovirus and shigella in asymptomatic people in the highland communities in papua new guinea.

vs. any pathogen d firmicutes vs. any pathogen e enterobacteriaceae vs. any pathogen f total lactobacillus vs. any pathogen g total bacteria vs. any pathogen.

in healthy controls.a study conducted in 399 healthy adults in australia found no asymptomatic carriage of noroviruses in that population.to date there has been only one diarrheal etiology study in papua new guinea that included noroviruses in the testing.

the authors acknowledge the efforts of tsuji h ogata k nomoto k yakult central institute tokyo japan for per- forming qpcr to determine gut microbial composition.financial support funding was provided by the funding program for next generation world-leading researchers pi masahiro umezaki ls024 partners in tropical health funded by the australian de- partment of foreign affairs and trade and the icras internal grant scheme from the papua new guinea institute of medical research pis paul horwood and andrew greenhill.authors' addresses paul f. horwood australian institute of tropical health and medicine james cook university cairns australia e-mail kevin w. soli tobias maure and william pomat papua new guinea institute of medical research environmental and emerging diseases unit goroka eastern high- lands papua new guinea e-mails and yuichi i. naito de- partment of biogeochemistry kaiyo kenkyu kaihatsu kiko yokosuka kanagawa japan e-mail ayako morita kiyoshi tadokoro eriko tomitsuka katsura igai and masa- hiro umezaki department of human ecology the university of tokyo tokyo japan e-mail and kazumi natsuhara faculty of nursing the japanese red cross akita college of nursing akita japan e-mail .

although the targeted pcr approachasymptomatic enteric carriage in png communities1875undertaken in our previous study is sufficiently sensitive to detect community differences it may be unable to detect subtle difference in community composition that may be present in carriage-positive participants compared with car- riage negative participants.water hygiene and sanitation data were not collected as part of this study however it is conceivable that this was a factor.

2013. burden and aetiology of diarrhoeal disease in infants and young children in developing countries the global enteric multicenter study gems a prospective case- control study.

this study suggests that enteric pathogens are common in healthy individuals in papua new guinean highland communities presumably acting as a reservoir of infection and thus contributing to a high burden of gastrointestinal illnesses.gastrointestinal infections are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality throughout the world particularly in children.in developing countries where the greatest burden of diarrheal mortalities occur gastrointestinal infections can also con- tribute to poor educational outcomes and reduced growth rates in children.in communities with poor access to sani- tation and safe water sources a cycle of individual infection followed by pathogen shedding into the environment through diarrhea or asymptomatic excretion potentially leads to dis- semination of infection in the community.

are among the most common cause of diarrheal illnesses for both childrenand the general population.indeed this patho- gen has also been linked with large mortality-associated outbreaks in displaced populations in this country.because of the cross-sectional design of this study we cannot account for dynamic fluctuations in microbiota normal flora and enteric pathogen carriage.

analysis of the relationship between enteric pathogen carriage and microbial community composition of participants using box plots to compare specific normal flora population numbers did not suggest that gut microbial composition was directly associated with pathogen carriage.

the global enteric multicenter study found only low asymptomatic carriage of both norovirus gii and shigella spp.

the global burden of disease studydetermined that shigellosis was one of the most important contributors to all-age dalys in both 1990 and 2010 and within the diarrheal diseases it was the second leading cause of all-age deaths.similarly the recent global enteric multicenter study conducted in four african and three asian nations showed shigella to be a significant cause of moderate to severe diarrhea.shigella is arguably the leading cause of moderate to severe diarrheadysentery in adults globally and with the recommendation by who for the introduction of the rotavirus vaccine in all countriesshigella is likely to become the leading cause of serious diarrheal illness and death due to diarrhea in children globally.

in total enteric pathogens were detected in 41 n  61 of the participants.significant differences were noted between highland com- munities versus lowland communities in the carriage rate of any pathogen p value  0.0001 viral pathogens p value  0.0001 and bacterial pathogens p value  0.0027  1. in particular the carriage of norovirus gii 20 versus 0 and shigella sp.

1872-1875doi10.4269ajtmh.17-0282copyright c 2017 by the american society of tropical medicine and hygienea high burden of asymptomatic gastrointestinal infections in traditional communities in papua new guineapaul f. horwood12 kevin w. soli1 tobias maure1 yuichi i. naito3 ayako morita4 kazumi natsuhara5 kiyoshi tadokoro4 jun baba6 shingo odani7 eriko tomitsuka48 katsura igai49 jo-ann larkins10 peter m. siba1 william pomat1emma s. mcbryde11 masahiro umezaki4 and andrew r. greenhill1101papua new guinea institute of medical research goroka papua new guinea 2australian institute of tropical health and medicine james cookuniversity cairns australia 3department of biogeochemistry japan agency for marine-earth science and technology kanagawa japan4department of human ecology the university of tokyo tokyo japan 5faculty of nursing the japanese red cross akita college of nursing akita japan 6research institute for languages and cultures of asia and africa tokyo japan 7faculty of letter chiba university chiba japan 8department of health chemistry faculty of pharmaceutical sciences niigata university of pharmacy and applied sciences niigata city japan 9graduate school of biomedical sciences nagasaki university nagasaki japan 10school of applied and biomedical sciences federationuniversity australia victoria australia 11australian institute of tropical health and medicine james cook university townsville australiaabstract.

