as previously postulated b. longum is able to transport only lower-table 2 analysis of bacterial growth kinetics calculated with wolfram mathematica 10.3and not determined.bsignificant difference in the asymptotic od value of b. longum ucd401 compared to l. plantarum and to the positive control glucose p  0.05. csignificant difference in the asymptotic od value of l. plantarum compared to b. longum ucd401 and to the positive control glucose p  0.05. dsignificant difference in the inflection point tc of b. longum ucd401 compared to l. plantarum and to the positive control p  0.05. esignificant difference in the inflection point tc of l. plantarum compared to b. longum ucd401 p  0.05.fsignificant difference in the growth rate k of l. plantarum on xyloglucans compared to that of other strains on xyloglucans and glucose p  0.05.fig 3 bacterial fermentative end products of cranberry xyloglucan utilization.

longum ucd401 was grown on the l. plantarum superna- tant it achieved a lower final od600 0.096 - 0.005 than when it was grown on purifiedtable 4 growth kinetics of strains during syntrophic interactionasignificant difference between the growth rates of b. infantis atcc 15697 in different conditioned media determined by paired t test p  0.05. bsignificant difference between the growth rates of b. longum ucd401 in different conditioned media determined by paired t test p  0.05. csignificant difference between the asymptotic od values of b. longum ucd401 in different conditioned media determined by paired t test p  0.05.dsignificant difference in the growth kinetics of each strain in different conditioned media and its growth kinetics in xyloglucans alone shown in  determined by paired t test p  0.05.end not determined.fna not available.fig 7 bacterial syntrophic interactions modeled with cranberry xyloglucans.

infantis jcm1272 achieved moderate growth on a2 od600 of 0.17 - 0.08 whereas growth on purified xyloglucans was not observed.in contrast the more purified a6 fraction was utilized only by b. longum subsp.longum ucd401 and b. longum subsp.

the strains used in this study have been previously confirmed by multilocus sequence typing and urease assay to distinguish b. infantis and b. longum urease and urease- .

this study tested the hypothesis that b. longum utilizes cranberry-derived xyloglucans in a strain-dependent manner.

interestingly the b. longum strain that efficiently utilizes cranberry xyloglucans secretes 2.0 to 2.5 mol of acetate-lactate.

whereas b. longum subsp.

infantis colonizes the infant gut b. longum subsp.

the b. longum subsp.

in contrast the chromosome of the phylogenetic near neighbor and infant-colonizing bacterium b. longum subsp.

thus we evaluated b. longum strains for the ability to utilize cranberry-derived xyloglucans as a sole carbon source.

among the bifidobacterial strains tested  b. longum subsp.

the growth rate of b. longum subsp.

this indicates that b. longum subsp.

as expected while fermenting xyloglucans b. longum subsp.

