similarly the frequency of mhciicd11bcd11cinthighcd64 resident macrophagesfigure 2. h. hepaticus produces a large soluble polysaccharide-inducing il-10 production in macrophagesa-g m-csf-differentiated bmdms were stimulated for 3 hr with different culture fractions of h. hepaticus.a mrna and protein induction of the cytokines il-10 and il-6 after stimulation with control medium tsb h. hepaticus whole bacteria hh or h. hepaticus- filtered cultured supernatant snhh.b-d induction of b il-10 c il-6 and d il-10il-6 ratio after 3 hr stimulation with snhh treated with enzymes and heat snhht snhht fractionated by size snhht  30 kda and snhht  30 kda and lps up.induction of il-10 after stimulation with tsbt or snhht treated with buffer - or sodium metaperiodate  naio4.

hepaticus induces il-10 in gut-resident macrophagesas blockade of il-10 signaling induces colitis in mice colo- nized with h. hepaticus   we first assessed whether h. hepaticus interacts directly with the innate immune compartment within the intes- tinal mucosa to trigger il-10 production.

hepaticus produces a large soluble polysaccharide that can induce il-10 production by macrophagesto investigate whether h. hepaticus directly induces il-10 in macrophages we generated m-csf differentiated bone marrow-derived macrophages bmdms and subjected them to stimulation with whole bacteria hh strain atcc51449 a filtered supernatant of h. hepaticus culture medium snhh or the control culture medium tsb.

hepaticus supernatant is sufficient to induce il-10in vivoto assess the activity of h. hepaticus polysaccharide in vivo we orally administered tsbt snhht or live h. hepaticus to spf mice daily for 2 days and analyzed the colon and caecum lpl by flow cytometry on day 3. like h. hepaticus infection  snhht treatment similarly increased the frequency of il-10high intestinal macrophages in the caecum but not in the colon  a s3a and s3b.to test the activity of snhht in a different immune compart- ment we injected tsbt or snhht intraperitoneally either daily for 2 days with analysis 48 hr after the first administration or as a single injection with analysis after 6 hr.

stimulation with tsbt - naio4 and lps st is used as a positive control for il-10 production by bmdms.induction of il-10 after stimulation with tsbt lps st snhht or snhht depleted using increasing concentrations of cona-lectin beads 0.8 1.5 3 and 6 vv.induction of il-10 and il-6 after stimulation with snhht crude polysaccharide fraction extracted by a cold-ethanol precipitation method cphht.data from three independent experiments.

cphht recapitulated snhht activity on bmdms with induction of high il-10 but low il-6 production g and s2b.collectively these data indicate that h. hepaticus releases a large polysaccharide into the culture medium that induces mac-rophages to produce a selective response with large amounts of il-10 and smaller amounts of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as il-6 and tnfa.h.

hepaticus can be considered as a pathosymbiont based on its ability to live in harmony with its murine host in the presence of an il-10 response and its potential to drive il-23-driven intesti- nal inflammation in il-10 deficiency.

published by elsevier inc. 733this is an open access article under the cc by license .figure 1. h. hepaticus induces il-10 in gut-resident macrophagesa-d spf wt mice were infected with helicobacter hepaticus hh for 3 or 5 days.experimental design.b and c facs analysis of caecum and colon lpl after 3 days of infection with hh.

pam3csk4 pam3 and lps up injections induced similar il10 mrna but higher amounts of il6 c and tnf non-significant figure s3c in total peritoneal cells after 6 hr.snhht signals through tlr2 and myd88 to induce il-10 to determine which sensing pathways were used by macro- phages for il-10 induction we stimulated a panel of knockout bmdms deficient in signaling proteins or prrs--such as tlrs nod-like receptors nlrs and c-type lectin receptors clrs--with snhht or tsbt.

as expected the crude polysaccha- ride fraction cphht and the canonical tlr21 ligand pam3 were not able to induce il-10 in tlr2-- bmdms contrary to the tlr4 ligand lps up c. by contrast bmdms defi- cient for clrs mincle clec4e dectin-1 clec7a mcl clecsf8 dngr1 clec9a micl clec12a other receptorsifnar interferon-ab receptor mr mannose receptor sra scavenger receptor a marco nod2 or signaling proteins rip2 card9 were still able to produce il-10 after stimulation with snhht a.as a complementary approach a tlr2 blocking monoclonal antibody or an isotype control was added prior to bmdm stim- ulation with snhht or different canonical tlr ligands.

tlr2 blockade inhibited il-10 induction by snhht and pam3 tlr21 ligand but not by pam2csk4 pam2 tlr26 orfigure 3. snhht is sufficient to induce il-10 in vivofrequency of il-10high cells among resident macrophages from caecum and colon lpl.

interestingly after 10 hr stimulation crebs133a ki bmdms produced less il-10 but more il-6 and tnfa infigure 7. msk12 is essential to the anti-inflammatory properties of snhhtwestern blot showing the phosphorylation of creb1 s133 and msk1 t581 and the total creb1 and msk1 protein amounts in wt and msk12-- bmdms after 30 min stimulation with tsbt snhht pam3 or lps up.mrna levels of il10 fosb and egr3 genes in bmdms from wt or msk12-- mice after 1 hr stimulation.induction of il-10 il-6 and tnfa il-10il-6 and il-10tnfa protein ratios in bmdms from wt or msk12-- mice after 10 hr stimulation.one of three independent experiments.

in the absence of an intact il-10 signaling h. hepaticus induces an il-23-driven inflammatory response in the intestine.

our results show that h. hepaticus triggers early il-10 induction in intestinal macro- phages and produces a large soluble polysaccharide that activates a specific mskcreb-dependent anti- inflammatory and repair gene signature via the re- ceptor tlr2.

to date little is known about the interac- tion of h. hepaticus with the innate immune compartment and its capacity to induce il-10 production by these cells.strategically located at the mucosal barrier intestinal lamina propria-resident macrophages function as immune sentinels.

