specifically the prevalence of bacteria belonging to tenericutes and actinobacteria phyla increased whereas the prevalence of bacteria belonging to the bacteroidetes phylum decreased in crabs with hpnd clearly pointing to an association with hpnd.keywords eriocheir sinensis hepatopancreatic necrosis disease tenericutes bacteroidetes meta-transcriptomicsintroductionthe freshwater chinese mitten crab e. sinensis is an economically important crustacean cultured in the chinese provinces of jiangsu anhui hubei and liaoning shen et al.

2014. with the rapid increase of the e. sinensis aquacultural industry numerous diseases have recently evolved thus resulting in huge economic losses shen et al.

2015. for example hepatopancreatic necrosis disease hpnd shuibiezi in chinese which affects e. sinensis has been a major problem in the crab-cultivated area of jiangsu province since 2015. crabs with hpnd exhibit multiple clinical symptoms including hepatopancreata that are lighter in color turning from golden yellow and light yellow to gray-white and soft shells that are darker in color than usual as well as muscle atrophy and edema ding et al.

in june 2016 more than 100 crabs exhibiting clinical symptoms typical of hpnd were obtained from several aquatic breeding ponds in jiangdu district yangzhou city and yandu district yancheng city jiangsu province china.cdna library construction and illumina sequencingtotal rna from the hepatopancreata of two crabs infected with hpnd as well as two healthy crabs was isolated using thedetected in the hepatopancreata of crabs infected with hpndrneasyqrplus mini kit qiagen valencia ca usa accordingding et al.

however the etiology of hpnd is unknown.the hepatopancreas of crustaceans functions in both digestion and absorption wang et al.

a dense microbial colonization has been observed in the hepatopancreas of several isopods wood and griffiths 1988 zimmer et al.

2001 wang et al.

2004b and the shrimp neocaridina denticulate cheung et al.

2015. in addition to nutrition and digestion the immanent microbiota play crucial roles in the immune response of their animal hosts cheung et al.

2015 and an imbalance of host- microbiota homeostasis has been shown to be responsible for certain illnesses chen et al.

2015. a previous study has reported symbiotic bacteria in crabs to belong to the phyla bacteroidetes proteobacteria firmicutes and tenericutes li et al.

2007 givens et al.

2013 chen et al.

2015 zhang et al.

2016. of these symbiotic bacteria tenericutes are unique because they lack a cell wall are small in size and possess a reduced genome ryan and ray 2004. furthermore bacteria of the genus candidatus hepatoplasma which belong to the tenericutes phylum were identified in symbionts colonizing the midgut glands of terrestrial isopods and a positive correlation was identified between the survival of hosts and the ingestion of low-quality food wang et al.

