These findings might facilitate non-invasive screening for colorectal cancer.Genes 2017 8 314 doiKeywords colorectal cancer microbiota African Americans metabolomics metagenomic linkage groupsIntroductionColorectal cancer CRC is the third most prevalent cancer worldwide -.

Ray K. Colorectal cancer Fusobacterium nucleatum found in colon cancer tissue--Could an infection cause colorectal cancer Nat.

This might correspond to a first line of intervention that might reduce colon neoplastic incidence in this population.The analysis of the colon cancer samples revealed that at the phylum level Firmicutes and Fusobacteria were more prevalent in cancer tissues while Bacteroides Proteobacteria and Verrucomicrobia were prevalent in the matched normal tissues Figure .

Their association with laryngeal cancer and colon cancer might open the door for an upper GI flora analysis--e.g.

oral flora--for the assessment of cancer risk over the GI tract rather than relying on stool samples for such a goal.Since our goal for this study was to define a panel of bacterial markers for non-invasive colorectal cancer screening tests and because of bacterial genomic plasticity the 16S rRNA gene description is not always sufficient to achieve such goals.

While the rapid amino acid using Streptococcus strains were consistently present in the adenoma and cancer samples at the 16S rRNA gene and metagenomics levels the metagenomic functions that associate with amino acids metabolism in the analyzed samples showed no significant differences in adenoma samples compared with healthy subjects.It is noteworthy that Fusobacteria that have been found in our study and many others as associating with colon cancer are agents of periodontal disease .

To detect bacterial markers of colorectal cancer in African Americans a metabolomic analysis was performed on fecal water extracts.

DNA from stool samples of adenoma and healthy subjects and from colon cancer and matched normal tissues was analyzed to determine the microbiota composition using 16S rDNA and genomic content metagenomics.

The microbiota in both cancer vs. normal tissues and adenoma vs. normal stool samples were different at the 16S rRNA gene level.

Q-PCR data showed a statistically significant presence of this bacterium in advanced adenoma and cancer samples in an independent cohort of CRC patients.

