finally as for single organisms a steady state hypothesis restricts the solution set by adding a constraint ss v  0. together with flux bound constraints li and ui these constraints describe a solution flux space as depicted in .multi objective flux balance analysis of a microbial ecosystem.

those with an opti- mal objective value of z may be investigated by using flux variability analysis fva todetermine the flux range of each reaction in the metabolic network .

objective functions f1 f2 and f3 define the objective space.doi10.1371journal.pone.0171744.g002vertex of the feasible region and then starts visiting adjoint vertexes until the objective function value cannot be improved.

contrary to single objective problems solution of mops is a set of vectors instead of a single value producing a pareto front see section solving multi objective optimization problems defined in the objective space .

furthermore if the mop is convex the inverse is also true.another commonly used approach is the e-constraint method where only one objective function is retained as the objective and the remaining objective functions are used to intro- duce new constraints.

this approach provides several advantages firstly it includes any solution for a system objective function expressed as a weighted sum of each compartment objective function see  and section solving multi objective optimization problems.

this study presents two multi-objective extensions of cbms for modeling communities multi-objective flux balance analysis mo-fba and multi- objective flux variability analysis mo-fva.

including metabolite concentrations into flux balance analysis thermodynamic realizability as a constraint on flux distributions in metabolic networks.

zomorrodi and collaborators   modeled each organism in a microbial community as a single cbm with its own objective function nested within a global ecosystem model thereby enabling the maximization of an ecosystem objective function.

contrary to above methods our approach is based on multi-objective optimization which allows us to consider the objective function of each organism simultaneously.specifically following previous works we implemented a multi-objective flux balance anal- ysis method  henceforth known as mo-fba for microbial communities which is based on an exact resolution algorithm.

using this method an objective function for example biomass production is stated and its maximal value within the flux space is determined.

from linear programming theory it is known that the optimal value z of objective function is unique however multiple flux distributions i.e.

given a particular point f of the pareto front the multiple optimal flux solutions that achieve the optimal objective values as given by the pareto optima f must be explored.

to this end we propose the use of the multi- objective fva mo-fva for multiple organisms which may be considered a straightforward extension of fva see flux variability analysis.

in the following a formal definition of pareto optima and efficient solutions is given  and approaches to solutions are discussed.let x rn and y rp represent the flux space and objective space respectively wherex is defined by the set of restrictions and y 14 fy j y 14 fdxth x 2 x g with f 14df1dxth .

