will enable us to address fundamental interaction between bacterial and archaeal com- munities and phytoplankton blooms including which mem- bers of bacterial and archaeal communities respond to phyto- plankton blooms which genes are expressed into rna and translated into proteins which metabolites are produced and consumed these structural functional and metabolic re- sponses of bacterial and archaeal communities to phytoplank- ton blooms will give us more details on microbiota activityfig.

for ex- ample flavobacteria populations associated with blooms have been found in eutrophic lakes eiler and bertilsson  and flavobacteria and roseobacter are dominant dur- ing marine phytoplankton blooms buchan et al.

therefore establishment of long-term observation on bac- terial community's structure and function diversity response to phytoplankton blooms holds great promise for increasing our understanding of these complex reactions.specifically structure and function of autotrophic bacteria during phytoplankton blooms should receive more attention fig.

doi 10.1007s00253-017-8330-5a multiomics approach to study the microbiome response to phytoplankton bloomsliyan song 1received 10 january 2017  revised 2 may 2017  accepted 6 may 2017  published online 19 may 2017 springer-verlag berlin heidelberg 2017abstract phytoplankton blooms are predictable features of marine and freshwater habitats.

despite a good knowledge base of the environmental factors controlling blooms com- plex interactions between the bacterial and archaeal commu- nities and phytoplankton bloom taxa are only now emerging.

here the current research on bacterial community's structural and functional response to phytoplankton blooms is reviewed and discussed and further research is proposed.

more attention should be paid on structure and function of autotrophic bacte- ria and archaea during phytoplankton blooms.

a multiomics integration approach is needed to investigate bacterial and archaeal communities' diversity metabolic diversity and bio- geochemical functions of microbial interactions during phyto- plankton blooms.keywords phytoplankton blooms .

phytoplankton blooms occur under optimal light and sufficient nutrient levels as well as thermal and density stratification conley et al.

phytoplankton blooms deteriorate water quality leading to unpleasant tastes and odors of water paerl et al.

blooms result in significant undesirable phys- ical chemical and biological changes in aquatic ecosystem paerl et al.

during blooms phytoplankton can re- lease large amounts of organic matter which stimulates bio- geochemical activities.

here we discuss theconceptual challenges in determining specific microbial activ- ities associated with phytoplankton blooms and rationalize the multiomics integration approach to investigate bacterial and archaeal communities' diversity metabolic diversity and bio- geochemical functions of microbial interactions during phyto- plankton blooms.bacterial and archaeal communities' structural diversityfast-developing modern molecular microbiology techniques e.g.

despite the discovery of bacterial community variability during phytoplankton bloom events a clear pattern of bacterial community response to phytoplankton blooms is still not known.

relevant questions include 1 what are the bacterial community's structural and functional patterns in bloom-free state and phytoplankton bloom state 2 how is the dynamics of bacterial community's structure and function before on and after phy- toplankton blooms 3 how stable and resilient is an individ- ual's bacterial community throughout phytoplankton blooms4 how similar are the bacterial community's structure and function in different aquatic ecosystemsthe information gap exists for two reasons.

