Infantino M. Manfredi M. Meacci F. Grossi V. Severino M. Benucci M. Bellio E. Bellio V. Nucci A. Zolfanelli F. et al.

Rosinach M. Fernandez-Banares F. Carrasco A. Ibarra M. Temino R. Salas A. Esteve M. Double-Blind Randomized Clinical Trial Gluten versus Placebo Rechallange in Patiens with Lymphocytic Enteritis and Suspected Celiac Disease.

Drago S. El Asmar R. Di Pierro M. Grazia Clemente M. Tripathi A. Sapone A. Thakar M. Iacono G. Carroccio A.

Lukas M. Drastich P. Konecny M. Gionchetti P. Urban O. Cantoni F. Bortlik M. Duricova D. Bulitta M. Exogenous alkaline phosphatase for the treatment of patients with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis.

Zanini B. Basche R. Ferraresi A. Ricci C. Lanzarotto F. Marullo M. Villanacci V. Hidalgo A. Lanzini A. Randomised clinical study Gluten challenge induces symptom recurrence in only a minority of patients who meet clinical criteria for non-coeliac gluten sensitivity.

As circulating LPS is an important determinant of the inflammatory response and multi organ failure it could therefore play an important role in further deterioration and prolongation of intestinal TJ barrier defects in intestinal permeability disorders and inflammatory gut diseases .Regarding intestinal permeability the early belief that it was reduced in NCGWS  has been definitively rejected .

In this regard it would be interesting to assess HDL levels in individuals with NCGWS to demonstrate a correlation between presence and intensity of symptoms and their improvement after dyslipidemia correction.We must highlight that in the mentioned studies on intestinal permeability in NCGWS patients issues about different inclusionexclusion criteria recur as in most of the studies about this condition due to the lack of specific confirmed biomarkers.New Hypothesis on the Pathogenic Mechanism of NCGWSThe intestinal epithelial surface is in constant contact with the enteroma in diseases such as IBD NEC and HIV infections there is a correlation between compromised epithelial integrity and immune responses consequent to translocation of microbial components from the intestinal lumen to the blood circulation .

Bol-Schoenmakers M. Fiechter D. Raaben W. Hassing I. Bleumink R. Kruijswijk D. Maijoor K. Tersteeg-Zijderveld M. Brands R. Pieters R. Intestinal alkaline phosphatase contributes to the reduction of severe intestinal epithelial damage.

Matysiak-Budnik T. Candalh C. Dugave C. Namane A. Cellier C. Cerf-Bensussan N. Heyman M. Alterations of the intestinal transport and processing of gliadin peptides in celiac disease.

Gyorffy H. Arato A. Dezsofi A. Veres G. Decreased mucosal expression of intestinal alkaline phosphatase in children with coeliac disease.

