A novel method for contributing to composting start-up at low temperature by inoculating cold-adapted microbial consortiumXin-Yu Xie  Yue Zhao  Qing-Hong Sun  Xue-Qin Wang  Hong-Yang Cui  Xu Zhang  Yan-Jie Li Zi-Min Wei a College of Life Science Northeast Agricultural University Harbin 150030 Chinab Heihe Branch of Heilongjiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences Heihe 164300 Chinah i g h l i g h t s CAMC has high activity of degradation biomass waste at low temperature.CAMC can change the bacterial community composition and succession of composting.Inoculated CAMC contribute to start- up in winter composting.The energy produced by CAMC would be a clean heat supply source for heating-up.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l e i n f o Article historyReceived 10 February 2017Received in revised form 6 April 2017 Accepted 8 April 2017Available online 11 April 2017KeywordsBio-heatCold-adapted microbial consortium CAMC Composting start-upLow temperaturea b s t r a c t Low temperature climate presented a technical challenge to start-up composting in northern region of China.

This work demonstrated that inoculating CAMC was beneficial to composting self-heating it pro- vided a novel biotechnology support to ensure the normal start-up of winter composting.c 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.IntroductionAerobic composting is a widely accepted approach to dispose the organic waste it could provide humic substance to improve fertility of soil and some basic nutrients for plant  .

However there have been few studies on this topic this study aimed to investigate the cold- adapt strains in the start-up period of composting for ensuring the normal operation of composting under the low ambient tem- perature.

Therefore further investigation of cold-adapt strains in the composting under low ambient temperature is of high interest for the practical production and application.Previous study showed the benefits of inoculating microorgan- isms in the composting .

A major contribution that inoculating microorganisms in the composting is to increase the production of bio-energy to help the composting pass the start-up period rapidly under the low ambient temperature.

The significant level of differences in this study was set at p  0.05.Results and discussionsEvolution of temperatureTemperature is a crucial indicator during the composting it can affect composting efficiency and microbial activity  .

S3 demonstrated that significant difference existed in bacterial community structures of treatment T and CK and the composting stages difference in microbial structure was more notable in treatment T and less dra- matic in CK except for 56 h. These results suggested that cold- adapted microbial consortium inoculants significantly reshaped the indigenous microbial communities which was probably due to the temperature limitations  which caused the competition among microbial populations de  the changes of nutritional component in composting system or the generation of secondary metabolites from inoculants  .

Andthen bands 3 4 5 and 7 became the dominant species in T con- tributing to the degradation of organic substances and production of heat.The heat energy generation origin form degradation of protein hydrolysable carbohydrate and lipidsAt the initial of composting the decomposition of organic sub- stances such as protein hydrolysable carbohydrate and lipids by the microbes could produce bio-heat leading to the increase of piles temperature during composting  .

a inoculation during composting as T b without inoculants during composting as CK.

Microorgan- isms act as the energy transducer during the composting.

