taipei 112 taiwand faculty of medicine national yang-ming university school of medicine 155 section 2 linong street taipei 112 taiwane taiwan association for the study of small intestinal diseases 5 fuxing street guishan district taoyuan 33305 taiwana r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 20 november 2016 received in revised form31 december 2016accepted 13 january 2017available online 19 january 2017keywordstype 2 diabetes metabolic surgery gut hormones immunometabolism appetitea b s t r a c t type 2 diabetes t2d and obesity are important public health problems.

any anatomic changes in the gastrointestinal tract can cause alterations in gut hormones bile acids adipokines inflammatory cytokines hepatokines myokines gut microbiota and even unidentified factors .functions of gut hormonesthrough the embryological origin of each part the gastroin- testinal tract is divided into foregut midgut and hindgut.

decreased weight and adiposity is transmissible through the gut microbiota independent of food intake in rodents whereas gut microbiota richness increases after rygb in obese humans thus intestinal bacterial and fungal microbiota transplantation may be promising to treat diabetes and obesity.

if manipulated properly gut hormones gut bacterial and fungal microbiota and bile acids can exert unparalleled control on the human appetite metabolism and well-being.therefore effects of metabolic surgery and djbl implantation emphasize the crucial role of the small intestine in glucose ho- meostasis e. as the crucial role of the small intestine in remitting diabetes cannot be neglected removing diabetogenic or obesogenic factors such as protein secreted from the duodenum andor jejunum as well as duodenal exclusion through endoscopic djbl using tissue-compatible self-degraded material may help solve the problems of diabetes and obesity in the future.conflicts of interestthe authors indicated no potential conflicts of interests.acknowledgmentsparts of the content were presented at the 7th asian diabetes surgery summit 2016 and annual general meeting of taiwan so- ciety of metabolic and bariatric surgery 2016 in conjunction with the 11th international diabetes federation western pacific region congress and the 8th scientific meeting of the asian association for the study of diabetes in taipei taiwan on october 29 2016. this study was sponsored in part by the taiwan ministry of science and technology most 104-2314-b-010-005-.

the roles of metabolic surgery such as roux-en-y gastric bypass sleeve gastrectomy gastric banding and biliopancreatic diversion are focused.

journal of pharmacological sciences 133 2017 61e64roles of metabolic surgerymetabolic surgery and other interventional diabetology in- cludes several types such as roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb a sleeve gastrectomy sg b gastric banding c biliopancreatic diversion bpd d intra-gastric balloon igb e and duodenal-jejunal bypass liner djbl f. the types of surgery are divided into malabsorptive procedures restrictive volume procedures and mixed procedures.

in a 17-year retrospective study surgery that restricted gastric volume such as gastric band- ing was associated with reduced mortality in diabetic and non- diabetic patients as well as a decreased incidence of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases .

1. diagrams illustrating different surgical and interventional medical treatment for type 2 diabetes in humans a roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb b sleeve gastrectomy sgc gastric banding d biliopancreatic diversion bpd e intra-gastric balloon igb and f duodenal-jejunal bypass liner djbl.y.-f. syu et al.

different types of metabolic surgeries have different glucose-lowering effects ac- cording to several studies e. a meta-analysis showed different efficacies of t2d remission in patients who underwent bpd 95.1 rygb 80.3 and gastric banding 56.7 .

in our previous randomized controlled trial we also found greater t2d remission in patients who underwent single anastomosis gastric bypass gb than those who underwent sg at 12 months 93 2 years 81 and 5 years postoperatively 60 e. more collective datasuggest that malabsorptive type bariatric procedures that bypass the foregut especially the duodenum e.g.

however surgery that restricts gastric volume still plays a role in t2d.

the reshape dual balloon and orbera gastric balloon to treat obesity.

the global prevalence of dia- betes mellitus is 8.8. interventional diabetology and obesitology have been recently advocated as treatment options for t2d and obesity.

this is an open access article under the cc by-nc-nd license .introductiontype 2 diabetes t2d and obesity are the most important public health problems facing the world today and they are the primary causes of mortality morbidity disability and discrimi- nation in human health care education and employment.

chen.peer review under responsibility of japanese pharmacological society.traditional treatment for t2d and obesity including lifestyle modification and medications are limited.

