typhimurium infection previous or after ibd onsetin this section we will discuss some factors that could relate the intestinal inflammation that occurs in ibd and the intestinal infection caused by s. typhimurium .

here we present a comprehensive review of studies performed in human and mice susceptible to ibd which supports the notion that infection with bacterial pathogens such as salmonella could promote the onset of ibd due to permanent changes in the intestinal microbiota disruption of the epithelial barrier and alterations of the intestinal immune response after infection.keywords inflammatory bowel disease crohn's disease ulcerative colitis gut microbiota salmonella entericaserovar typhimurium innate immune response virulence factorsintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd is defined as a set of pathologies that exhibit a progressive and chronic phenotype where the intestinal immune response and the normal gut microbiota are altered .

typhimurium the bacterial virulence factors and the defec- tive processes in susceptible individuals such as those described in ibd patients could generate a persistence of the bacteria in dendritic cells which would generate a continuous secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and an environment of inflam- mation which means that an infection with s. typhimurium in these patients could have a double effect being more permissive to the infection caused by this intracellular bacteria.

due to the factors mentioned above it is possible that in ibd patients will be more susceptible to suffer a more aggressive infection by s. typhimurium or even to develop a persistent infection due to the baseline inflamma- tion and impaired intestinal environment.

the combination of virulence factors displayed by s. typhimurium and the genetic alterationsof the host that prevent correct bacterial clearance suggests that an infection with s. typhimurium in a susceptible host could gen- erate changes in the proliferation and differentiation of paneth cells which in patients suffering ibd will exacerbate the defect produced by the mutation in some of the genes related to this pathology which finally will modify the lysozyme secretion with a consequent alteration in microbiota.

it is possible that all these alterations could be due to s. typhimurium infection which results in an increased inflammation in susceptible patients   .it is known that s. typhimurium can produce an inflamma- tory environment due to virulence proteins coded by spis which improve its fitness over intestinal microbiota and thereby to reach and invade the epithelium .

all this combined with a genetic susceptibility will impair the recognition of pathogens the autophagy tissue repair and bacterial clearance generating an inflammatory condition at the intestinal epithelium.concluding remarksin this review we discussed several microbial cellular and genetic alterations described so far in ibd patients and related these defects with the infection caused by s. typhimurium.

it would be relevant to evaluate whether ibd patients are chronic carriers of s. typhimurium in the intestine.supporting the hypothesis raised in this review it has been described that ibd patients have a deregulated immune response in the intestine which is reflected for instance by the secretion of igg instead of iga resulting in an inflammatory response against their own microbiota .

additionally it is known that this bacterium can cause persistent infection in human and in mice suggesting that in patients displaying one or more genetic defects that predispose to ibd development it is possible that they are much more susceptible to be infected by s. typhimurium and cause a persistent infection.

so in this case an infection by s. typhimurium in a susceptible host could be more severe as proper function of the above mentioned proteins is required for the correct bacterial clearance and for the control of dissemination of s. typhimurium to extraintestinal sites and this is not necessarily related to the anticipated develop- ment of the disease but it is possible that all these factors could allow the bacteria to survive longer inside the cells and generate an inflammatory atmosphere that promotes the onset of ibd.some studies have demonstrated that mdp induces autophagy in dendritic cells a process that needs correct nod2 signaling which in turn requires mainly the proper function of atg16l1.

all these changes generate a new or different niche to the infection and finally the onset of the disease with possible different phenotypes.other important factor related to ibd and s. typhimurium infection is the formation of autophagosomes.

we will focus on s. enterica serovar typhimurium .salmonella enterica serovar typhimurium s. typhimurium is a facultative gram-negative and intracellular bacterium which infects several host including humans .

therefore ibd patients can be more susceptible to an infection with a pathogen as s. typhimurium which could2 3s o2- 4 6    .

it is possible that s. typhimurium infection could trigger chronic inflammation in individual carrying one or more of the defects associated with ibd given the inability of these patients to prop- erly clear bacteria in the intestine.

in this way s. typhimurium uses this defense mechanism production of inflammasome and pyrop- tosis process to spread to other immune cells and disseminate systemically from the gastrointestinal tract .during an infection with s. typhimurium the response of nod1 or nod2 occurs through the activation of the transcrip- tion factor nf-kb which has an important role in the regulationof cytokine production.

