While the definition and other considerations discussed in this Commentary do not lead to a bright line rule cutting across the spectrum of stool-based products delineated in  they do highlight potential dividing lines where to the left are productsproce- dures that would be considered FMTs and to the right are products that would be other types of live biother- apeutic products.

The statement appears to contemplate asingle donor and a single recipient which would limit public health concerns compared with universal donors or pooled stool both of which could negatively affect the health of a large number of MT recipients.

Some argued that implying a health ben- efit a claim that the transplanted material would treat mitigate cure or prevent disease thus rendering the material a drug having to go through the IND pro- cesswould require clinical studies to demonstrate the health benefit thus limiting the use of the defini- tion to MTs with established clinical effectiveness.

E. HOFFMANN ET AL.that would not be covered under a definition that included health benefit and that if the definition includes the concept of conferring a health benefit it will not include 'the still experimental' for which there is not yet evidence of efficacy.

By definition I would be unable to do so if conferring a health benefit is part of the defini- tion of microbiota transplant.Some working group participants felt strongly that health benefit language should be included and noted the followingThe transplant is always going from a healthyhuman donor to a sick human recipient.

The consensus was that anything more than minimal manipulation of the human material that is transferred from one person to another would not constitute MT but would be considered a probiotic or other product that FDA would likely regulate as a drug.

In addition because stool differs from person to per- son the chemical and biologic components of the stool product would vary from batch to batch and would violate the regulatory requirement for consistency in product composition.The use of stool from a single donor whose stool is given to a single or small number of recipients may also be an important characteristic to consider in the definition of FMT.

In fact in its most recent draft industry guidance document on regulating FMT FDA seems to be making this distinc- tion stating that it will exercise enforcement discretion when the stool donor and stool are qualified by screening and testing performed under the direction of the licensed health care provider for the purpose of providing the FMT product for treatment of the patient.

As a result it is not clear where one would draw the line on the spectrum of products currently in use or now in development as to which constitute an MT and which do not.One might also ask whether MT is distinguishable from probiotic products on the market or being devel- oped for the market.

In other words should the definition of MT indicate that the trans- ferred materials must restore a normal or health microbiome andor restore the recipient to health Working group members noted that this is compli- cated for several reasons.

