It is unclear whether prebiotics or probiotics alone or in combination can correct gut microbiome dysbiosis in the elderly and manifest in clinical outcomes that improve their health and well being.The number of prebiotics that have been evaluated in human clinical studies is limited but includes inulin gal- actooligosaccharides fructooligosaccharides and xylooligo- saccharides e. There have been few clinical studies in elderly adults to determine if digestion resistant starch could be an effective prebiotic to modulate the gut microbiome in a beneficial way.The primary objective of this clinical study was to evaluate the impact of daily consumption of MSPrebioticr a digestion resistant starch over 3 months on the gut microbiome in the elderly  70 years age ELD and test for differences compared to mid-age 30e50 years age MID Canadian adults.Materials and methodsPower analysis and sample sizeFor the randomized placebo controlled study design and using the outcome measures described in the study protocol the statis- tical power analysis indicated that a total sample of n 20 in each group would have power 0.80 to detect a Cohen's F effect size 0.33.

eRandomized Control TrialsA randomized trial to determine the impact of a digestion resistant starch composition on the gut microbiome in older and mid-age adultsMichelle J. Alfa    David Strang  Paramjit S. Tappia  Morag Graham  Gary Van Domselaar   Jessica D. Forbes   Vanessa Laminman  Nancy Olson  Pat DeGagne  David Bray  Brenda-Lee Murray  Brenden Dufault  Lisa M. Lix a St. Boniface Research Centre Canadab Dept of Medical Microbiology University of Manitoba Canadac Deer Lodge Canadad National Microbiology Laboratory Public Health Agency of Canada Canadae George and Fay Yee Centre for Healthcare Innovation Department of Community Health Sciences University of Manitoba Winnipeg MB Canadaa r t i c l e i n f o Article historyReceived 23 September 2016Accepted 22 March 2017KeywordsElderly gut microbiomeBifidobacteria Prebiotic Resistant starch Butyrate Canadian adultss u m m a r y Background The elderly often have a diet lacking resistant starch RS which is thought to lead to gut microbiome dysbiosis that may result in deterioration of gut colonocytes.Objective The primary objective was to assess if elderly ELD 2 70 years age had microbiome dysbiosis compared to mid-age MID 30e50 years age adults and then determine the impact of daily con- sumption of MSPrebioticr a RS or placebo over 3 months on gut microbiome composition.

The study coordinator and study nurse were responsible for enrolling participants and assigning them to placebo or study product based on the list of computer generated randomized numbers.

Relative abundance of gut microbiome phyla and genera for elderly ELD and mid-age MID groups after 12 weeks of consuming MSPrebioticr or PlaceboThe relative phyla abundances for elderly ELD 70 years A and the relative genera abundances are shown for ELD on placebo B or MSPrebioticr C. The relative phyla abundances for mid-age MID 30e50 years D and the relative genera abundances are shown for MID on placebo E or MSPrebioticr F. The group mean is shown by the diamond symbol within the box and the median is shown as a cross-bar within the box.

Although our data fit with published results showing that RS consumption increased the relative ratio of fecal butyrate levels in ELD further studies are needed to determine ifELD Group Mean percent of total SCFA content standard deviationC3 Acetate25.8 21.120.5 13.824.6 19.121.3 12.1MID Group Mean percent of total SCFA content standard deviationa Statistically significant increase in the C4 proportion-change of SCFAs from baseline to end of treatment in the Elderly-MSPrebioticr group compared to the Elderly-placebo group p 14 0.022 using the ManneWhitney non-parametric test.Table 5Use of stool softeners in elderly ELD adults at baseline and once randomized to placebo or MSPrebioticr.a Note for week 1 and 2 ALL participants were on placebo subsequently at the beginning of week 3 participants were ran- domized to receive placebo or MSPrebioticr.b There was a statistically significant reduction in the use ofstool softeners over time in the ELD-MSPrebioticr group compared to the ELD-placebo group Group x time interaction p 14 0.048.this is due to poor utilization of butyrate in ELD i.e.

So what is the explanation for improved gut health when there is an increase in Bifidobacteria in the gut A number of studies have shown notsurprisingly that the gut microbiome is complex and interactive.

However there was a statistically significant difference in the alpha diversity plots for the Shannon p 0.0131 and Inverse Simpson plots p 0.0036 for ELD and MID cohorts on MSPrebioticr compared to the placebo at the end of the study .shows the relative abundance of different phyla and the most abundant twenty genera within the four cohorts at the end of the study.

The University of Manitoba Office Research Quality Management unit performed an audit of the study in a process that was independent from the investigators and the study sponsors.An overview of the clinical study and primary outcomes mea-sures is shown in .

Whereas prebiotics have recently been defined by O'Callaghan and van Sinderen as ... a non-digestible compound that through its metabolism by microorganisms in the gut modulates composition andor activity of the gut microbiota thus conferring a beneficial physiological effect on host.

All participants were on placebo for the first two weeks and then were randomized to continue on placebo or start consuming MSPrebioticr.The primary outcome measures includedTolerability of ingestion of 30 g onceday of MSPrebioticbloating.with respect to gastrointestinal side effects i.e.

