finally we demonstrated the functional consequences of the dysbiotic microbiota engineered through inoculation of a urease-positive ure e. coli strain by showing exacerbation of disease in a t cell adoptive transfer mouse model of colitis 24.the ability to engineer the mouse gut microbiota into either a dysbiotic or a more normal configuration by the inoculation of a single aerotolerant taxon with or without urease enzymatic activity provides a proof of concept that a single defined bacterial strain can reconfigure the gut microbiota.ni et al.page 4resultsthe presence of amino acids in fecal microbiota from patients with crohn's disease positively correlates with disease activityusing shotgun metagenomic sequencing we previously reported the characterization of the fecal microbiome of 90 pediatric patients with crohn's disease receiving either anti-tumor necrosis factor tnf or dietary therapy and compared these data to those from 26 healthy control children 5. an analysis of gene pathways using random forest showed that sulfur relay systems nitrogen metabolism and several biosynthetic pathways for amino acids were enriched in the crohn's disease fecal samples 5. here we performed an untargeted fecal metabolomic analysis on these samples using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry lc-ms and identified 341 known small molecules.

in addition molybdenum cofactor may also play a role in various nitrate reduction pathways associated with nitrogen respiration in the setting of intestinal inflammation 18. whereas the shifts in both bacterial community structure and gene expression may be linked to a variety of factors the predominance of the sulfur relay system in the gut microbiome of patients with crohn's disease emphasizes the possible importance of nitrogen metabolism in the development of the dysbiotic gut microbiota.ni et al.page 9the notion that bacterial nitrogen metabolism plays a role in the development of dysbiosis is supported by the strong positive correlation between proteobacteria taxa found in the dysbiotic microbiota of patients with ibd 5 and our fecal metabolomic profiling showing a strong association between dysbiosis and quantities of fecal amino acids.

s1 c and d suggested that the presence of increased fecal amino acids in pediatric crohn's disease patients was in part due to the gut microbiota.fecal amino acids positively correlate with proteobacteria in pediatric patients with crohn's diseasein pediatric patients with crohn's disease quantities of fecal amino acids and their derivatives positively correlated with a dysbiotic composition of the gut microbiota defined by gut bacterial composition and gene types that we previously labeled as cluster 2 fig.

as noted above the dysbiotic gut microbiome in pediatric patients with crohn's disease was associated with expression of genes involved in bacterial nitrogen metabolism 5. in addition we observed a positive correlation between the severity of crohn's disease in these patients fecal amino acid concentrations and bacterial taxa associated with dysbiosis figs.

in the farmm food and resulting microbial metabolites inpatient study fecal samples were collected from healthy adult volunteers before during and immediately after a bowel-cleansing protocol consisting of vancomycin 500 mg every 6 hours and neomycin 1000 mg every 6 hours daily for 3 days with a pegpurge 4 liters on day 2. anaerobic culture conditions for cfu determination of bacterial load were performed as previously described 51.dna extraction 16s rrna amplification sequencing and analysistotal dna was extracted from mouse fecal pellet and bacterial gavage samples using the mo bio powersoil-htp kit.

our results may explain why the transfer of specific enterobacteriaceae namely klebsiella pneumoniae and p. mirabilis both known to express urease 38 correlates with the development of colitis in another chronic t cell- mediated model of colitis 11. fecal microbiota transplantation has been used with mixed results in crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis a related ibd with similar dysbiosis to that seen in patients with crohn's disease 16 39-44. some studies have identified differential effectiveness of fecal microbiota transplantation depending on the donor.

we used a combination of shotgun metagenomic sequencing and metabolomics to analyze fecal samples from pediatric patients with crohn's disease and found an association between disease severity gut dysbiosis and bacterial production of free amino acids.

2. associations between bacterial taxa abundance ascertained by fecal shotgun metagenomic sequencing and the fecal metabolomein healthy pediatric subjects and those with crohn's diseasespearman rank correlation with the direction and strength of association indicated by the color index in the figure.

c unweighted unifrac principal coordinates analysis of fecal microbiota composition in the samples collected from five healthy human subjects as described in b.d fecal bacterial load quantified by 16s rrna gene copy number pcr per gram of stool and anaerobic culture colony-forming units cfu per gram of stool in healthy human subjects who received a bowel-cleansing protocol of oral antibiotics neomycin and vancomycin for 72 hours and a peg purge initiated at 36 hours.

fecal amino acids and their derivatives were also positively associated with taxa in the proteobacteria phylum such as escherichia klebsiella haemophilus and proteus all of which have been associated with gut microbiota dysbiosis in patients with ibd 7 20 21. these bacterial lineages also induce intestinal inflammation in animal models of ibd 11 12 22.ammonia a product of urea hydrolysis produced by bacterial urease in the mammalian intestinal tract is a major source of nitrogen for bacteria.

s1b.among the pediatric patients with crohn's disease fecal amino acids and their derivatives positively correlated with activity of intestinal inflammation as measured by the concentration of fecal calprotectin fig.

fecal microbial transplant effect on clinical outcomes and fecal microbiome in active crohn's disease.

bars indicate the number of metabolites in each category as defined by the human metabolome database 56. b a heat map demonstrating relative abundance of fecal amino acids and their derivatives before therapy according to the presence of disease cluster assignment fecal calprotectin concentration use of antibiotics and corticosteroids response or no response to therapy and treatment assignment.

these quantities were comparable to the reduction observed in the feces of abxpeg-treated mice and thus demonstrate the importance of urease in the flux of nitrogen for amino acid synthesis by the gut microbiota.reduction of gut bacterial load promotes the establishment of a new steady state in colonized micewe have previously shown that the combined use of antibiotics and peg reduces the endogenous bacterial load in the murine gut 23 and that this reduction is required for engraftment of a defined bacterial consortium.

nitrogen metabolism pathways have been extensively characterized in e. coli 35 where the preferred nitrogen source is ammonia 36. to provide mechanistic evidence supporting the metagenomic and metabolomic associations between nitrogen metabolism and fecal amino acid quantities with the dysbiotic microbiota in crohn's disease we examined the role of urease in bacterial nitrogen flux and amino acid synthesis.

