more specifically this way of limiting the total population density to the carrying capacity c corresponds to assuming a well-mixed environment such that the relative population densities of the two strains remain unchanged upon spillover.consequently two oscillating strains in one trap that use completely orthogonal quorum sensing systems only interact if the total population density hits the carrying capacity c. as shown in the main text the strains will eventually lock into an anti-phase pattern where they avoid reaching their peak density at the same time.

however if the slower growing lux-cfp strain is enriched 100x more than the green strain the population stabilizing effects of the lysis circuit becomes evident.without the lysis gene the mixture is taken over by the lux-cfp strain however with thescott et al.page 3lysis gene the population ratio over the initial 10 hours keeps close to a 11 ratio.

of luxi resulting half maximum production of ahl dm  10 diffusion constant of ahl across cell membrane ci  1 luxi copy number gi  1 degradation rate of luxi cl  1 lysis gene copy number gl  0.5 degradation rate of lysis protein dh  0.1 dilution rate of extracellular ahl dh  65 diffusion constant of extracellular ahl pl  0.3 probability of lysing lth  1.6 threshold of lysis protein for lysis.to simulate the constant-lysis rpa-gfp strain these parameters have different values h0  0.2 m  1 b  0.8 pl  0.03. besides rpa-gfp strain's growth rate is 10 larger than lux-cfp strain.deterministic modelingsingle lysis oscillator strain--we describe the population level mechanisms that lead to oscillations in population size as observed with the synchronized lysis circuit.

in order to model cross-talk we modify the equation of the receiver strain strain 2 in this case to read5a5bwhere x determines how much strain 2 responds to the qs agent of strain 1 i.e.

plots were generated by using matlab.for co-culture experiments co-culture was determined to be lost if the fluorescence of either cfp or gfp went below background fluorescence and then images were checked manually in cases of the oscillatory lysing cfp strain which can go below threshold between lysis events.plate reader fluorescence and population estimatesfor the well-plate experiments the strains were grown in a standard falcon tissue culture 96- well flat bottom plate with appropriate antibiotics kanamycin only for non-lysis and kanamycin and chloramphenicol for lysis strains.

e-f fluorescence green and population black over time for cells harboring the slc with aq0.4 for the deterministicmodel e and laa-tagged luxi for a typical experimental run f as seen in c. g-hfluorescence green and population black over time for cells harboring the slc with aq1.1 for the deterministic model g and ts-laa-tagged luxi for a typical experimental run h. i-j fluorescence green and population black over time for cells harboring the slc with aq2 for the deterministic model i and untagged luxi for a typical experimental run j as seen in d. the video stills c-d as well as the fluorescence and population profiles in f h and j are all representative of typical microfluidic experiments with these strains.scott et al.page 18fig.

in cases where both strains harbor an slc but there is one-way cross-talk the strain that responds to both signals becomes entrained to the strain that only responds to its own fig.

the steady-state population ratio shown in figure 4 was then calculated as ranging from -1 strain 2 dominates to 1 strain 1 dominates.

f two completely orthogonal strains with the green strain in the weak lysis regime leading to constant lysis and the blue strain in the lysis regime.

oscillations inscott et al.page 22the green strain's population are imposed by the oscillatory blue strain through volume exclusion.

1e-g. we used these components to design synchronized lysis circuits slcs16 in two bacterial strains whereby each strain is programmed to lyse upon reaching a critical population density.to understand how an ecosystem harboring the synchronized lysis circuit slc can be altered we established the range of possible self-limiting dynamics of the circuit fig.

because of this growth advantage a 11 mixture of these strains in a batch culture with or without the lysis gene is primarily taken over by the faster growing rpa-gfp strain by the time the strains reach stationary phase fig.

with two non-lysing strains the faster growing strain will eventually dominate the population fig.

co- culture was determined to be lost if the fluorescence of either cfp or gfp went below background fluorescence and then was checked manually in cases of the oscillatory lysing cfp strain which can go below threshold between lysis events.for the lysis characterization figure 1 we counted cells using the following strategies for experiments where the cell population was mostly aggregated together non-sparse population we first estimated the average area of an individual bacterial cell and the average void fraction open space between bacteria in the trap.

additionally the gfp fluorescence required extra signal normalization because the tecan's gfp sensor reads into the cfp emission profile but not the other way around.here are the equations used to calculate the population estimates with appropriate filtering and normalizationpopulationlux is the population estimate of the lux-cfp strain in a co-culture.areacfpmix is the area of the cfp fluorescence time-series curve of a given co-culture.

