thefigure 4  abundance of 166 cazymes in diets and sample fractions n  3. glycoside hydrolases  gh 91 proteins glycosyltransferases  gt 38 proteins carbohydrate esterases  ce 16 proteins carbohydrate-binding modules  cbm 2 proteins and s-layer homology domains  slh 19 proteins a. pie charts depict the phylogenetic origin of cazymes of the respective categories in diets and sample fractions at phyla level blue bacteroidetes green firmicutes red proteobacteria yellow environmental samples gray others b. rf rumen fluid lp liquid phase sp solid phase.cbm32 family was most abundant in the sp fraction of the grass silage-based diet figure 4a.

proteobacterial proteins showed an increased contribution regarding monosaccharide transporters when compared to the respective phylogenetic origin of the group of oligosaccharide polyol and lipid transporters figure 5. phosphate and amino acid transporters based on 27 proteins showed the highest abundance in corn silage-derived samples and were mainly produced by proteobacteria species figure 5. mineral and organic ion transporters including 17 proteins were almost exclusively produced by firmicutes species and showed the highest lfq-values in the corn silage-derived sp fraction figure 5.archaeal and bacterial enzymes involved in carbon metabolismvarying abundance in diets and sample fractions of enzymes involved in the carbon metabolism are shown in figure 6a.

likewise the family of acidaminococcaceae belonging to the phylum of firmicutes showed a higher protein p  0.01 and otu abundance in the corn silage-based diet when compared to the grass silage- and hay-based samples figure 2. the abundance of the respective otus was least in the sp fraction of all diets whereas the lfq-values of the corresponding proteins were highest in the sp fractions figure 2. the firmicutes family of selenomonadaceae was identified exclusively in the protein- based dataset figure 2. selenomonadaceae proteins exhibited a lower abundance in the grass silage-derived sample fractions when compared to the corn silage- and hay-based samples p 0.01. members of the order of clostridiales including the families of lachnospiraceae and ruminococcaceae constitutedmajor parts of the firmicutes phylum figure 2 and revealed the highest lfq-values and numbers of otus in the sp fractions of all diets when compared to the respective rf and lp fractions with p  0.01 lfqs and p  0.05 otus.

thus the lower abundance of the selenomonadaceae family in the grass silage-based diet might be linked to a similarly decreased abundance of the butyrivibrio proteins in the respective samples.the family of erysipelotrichaceae of the clostridium subphylum cluster xvii as well belonging to the phylum of firmicutes exhibited the highest abundance of lfqs and particularly otus in the sample fractions of the hay- based diet figure 2. most of the respective otus were assigned to the genera of sharpea and kandleria while most proteins were produced by species belonging to the genera of coprobacillus catenibacterium and eggerthia.

proteins involved in the citric acid cycle showed a remarkably low abundance in the sp fractions of the grass silage- and hay-based diets figure 6c pointing toward a low abundance of substrates like succinate which is in accordance with the abundance values of proteins of the embden-meyerhof-parnas pathway.

the nmr-based metabolomic analysis determined the highest concentration of succinate in the corn silage-based rf fractions table 3. moreover the rise of proteobacteria in the fractions of the corn silage-based diet figure 2 is in concordance with the increased abundance of monosaccharide transporters in the respective samples and the higher proteobacterial contribution to monosaccharide transporters when compared to the group of oligosaccharide transporters figure 5. additionally the abundance of proteobacterial glycosyltransferases and particularly carbohydrate esterases increased in the corn silage-derived lp and sp fractions figure 4.beyond the higher abundance of the proteobacteria phylum and the succinivibrionaceae family in the corn silage-based samples and the therewith associated increase in succinate formation might explain the rise of otus and proteins of the acidaminococcaceae family in the samples of the corn silage- based diet figure 8. all otus of the acidaminococcaceae family were assigned to the genus of the succinate-fermenting succiniclasticum van gylswyk 1995 and 48 of 70 identified proteins were produced by the asaccharolytic and succinate- utilizing phascolarctobacterium species watanabe et al.

the metaproteomics-based approach identified 358 archaeal proteins that distributed over all archaeal phyla including as well the family of thermococcaceae whereasthe 626 otus were exclusively assigned to three families of methanogens methanobacteriaceae methanosarcinaceae and methanomassiliicoccaceae figure 3. proteins belonging to the phyla of thaumarchaeota and crenarchaeota constituted a minor part of the total archaeal protein abundance figure 3. the lfq-values of unclassified archaeal proteins were above 16 in each sample table s2.

in the same way sequences assigned to the phylum of bacteroidetes were more abundant than the lfq-values of the corresponding proteins figure 2. in contrast the family of bacteroidaceae showed a higher abundance of proteins when compared to the abundance of the corresponding otus figure 2. otu and lfq-values of bifidobacteriaceae were higher in the grass silage- and hay-based samples when compared to the corn silage-based fractions table s2.

similarly the phylumof synergistetes revealed the highest abundance of proteins and particularly otus in the sp fractions when compared to respective the rf and lp fractions figure 2. proteins assigned to the phylum of tenericutes were low abundant when compared to the corresponding otu abundance.

however the abundance of elusimicrobia proteins was lower when compared to the respective otus whereas the abundance of verrucomicrobia proteins was higher when compared to the corresponding otus table s2.

2015. concerning the present study the ratio of acetate to propionate an indicator for methanogenic activity was lowest in the corn silage-based diet table 3. furthermore the increased abundance levels of the succinivibrionaceae family figure 2 the higher amount of succinate table 3 and the increased abundance of six propionate-producing phascolarctobacterium proteins in the fractions of the corn silage-based diet may indicate a consistency with the above-mentioned investigations.no otus were assigned to the firmicutes order of bacillales or the family of selenomonadaceae with its typical members of the rumen ecosystem selenomonas ruminantium and anaerovibrio lipolytica.

2016. the present data may confirm a high metabolic activity of the verrucomicrobia phylum due to the higher abundance of proteins when compared to the respective otus.the prevotellaceae family comprises common rumen bacteria such as prevotella ruminicola p. brevis p. bryantii and p. albensis and was shown to increase in abundance upon inclusion of concentrate in diets henderson et al.

2011 jami and mizrahi 2012. the abundance of proteins and otus assigned to the prevotellaceae family was not affected by the different diets but within diets the lfq- values were highest in all lp fractions figure 2. a higher abundance of the prevotellaceae family in the liquid rumen fractions has been reported before whitford et al.

details about the proteins assigned to the different cazy-categories including the phylogenetic origin and the respective functions are listed in table s3.abc transporterswebmga assigned 7745 and 336 ko identifiers to 8163 bacterial and 358 archaeal proteins respectively table s4 revealing a total of 170 bacterial proteins with sequencesimilarity to abc transporters table s5 as defined by the ko database.

within the corn silage-derived samples the respective proteins and otus were more abundant in the sp fraction figure 2. the abundance of otus assigned to succinivibrionaceae was higher when compared to the lfq-values of the corresponding proteins.

