nmds analysis shows that the diet can explain the dissimilarity among the bsf-associated fungal communities nmdsbray-curtis r2  0.87 p  0.001 two groups of fungi were identified within the bsf fungal microbiota  the first group is associated with larvae fed on chicken feed a c while the second with specimens reared on the two substrates b e.group d larvae fed on the chicken feed only but for a longer time is closer to groups b and e. venn diagram  shows that two otus are exclusive to group a 10 to group b five to group c two to group d and five to group e. interestingly no otus in common to all groups were detected.mycobiota compositionthe results of the taxonomic assignment analysis at the phylum and genus levels are reported in .

fungal community myco- biota in the gut of insects can play important roles in detoxification of metabolites and supply of enzymes essential amino acids vitamins and sterols in the host's diet  however fungi are also able to produce toxins which can enter the trophic network and represent a risk for animals and humans .accordingly the aims of the present study were i to study the intestinal mycobiota of bsf larvae raised for different times on two diverse substrates chicken feed andor vegetable wasteii to characterize the fungal community also in terms of anti-microbial activity.materials and methodsexperimental designbsf larvae used in this study were provided by a stock colony established at the department of crop protection faculty of bioscience engineering of ghent university gent belgium.in order to study the impact of different diets and exposure times on the intestinal fungal community of bsf larvae the following five different feeding conditions were used chicken feed for 17 days group a chicken feed for 17 days and vegetable waste for the following four days group b chicken feed for 14 days group c chicken feed for 21 days group d chicken feed for 14 days and vegetable waste for the next seven days group e. the experimen- tal design and groups are reported in .larvae of h. illucens about 1000 larvae see below were grown on two different substrates namely a chicken feed diet which has been selected as a reference substrate a vegetable waste substrate used as low value organic waste material.

probably the substrate at 21 days is more contaminated and the fungal community of group d shows more similarities with groups b and e respect to groups a and c. the results obtained with the microbiological and molecular approaches have been confirmed group b has the greatest diversity in the fungal community at the genus level respect to the groups oflarvae fed on the chicken feed only.

susceptible strains c. glabrata neqas 8706 and c. lusitaniae neqas 6208 were used to test the antimicrobial activity of p. fermentans t. asahii and r. mucilaginosa in fact as reported in  and  these isolated yeast species have been tested against yeasts of the genera candida.the susceptible yeasts s. cerevisiae ncyc 1006 and w. anomalus waum3 were used to test t. jirovecii p. kluyveri p. kudriavzevii and m. guilliermondii the first sensitive yeast was rflp analysis of its region of yeast isolates.in this table are reported yeast species associated with 11 restriction profiles obtained after digestion of its region with the three endonucleases lengths in bp of the fragments number of isolates and corresponding groups of larvae.chosen according to  whereas the second one is a strain already used as susceptible yeast in polonelli et al.

blue lines connect the individual mycobiotas to the centroid values of each group.c e 53.4 56.9 93.4 97.7 respectively whereas the fungal microbiota associated with group d is dominated by the class belonging to tremellomycetes 87.7. in addition to sac- charomycetes other minor classes were detected in group b microbotryomycetes 15.2 leotiomycetes 7.7 dothideomycetes 6.1 and several classes with a low abundance below 5 among all groups examined group b appears to have the greatest classes diversity.

in order to investigate the common otus present in the five groups tested in this study an analysis of commonality was performed and visualized through a venn diagram using the gplots package in r. in the venn diagram the presence was assigned when the otu was reported for at least two specimens of the group fed on the same substrate.resultsidentification of fungal speciesa total of 63 yeast isolates with different morphologies was randomly picked up from ypd plates.

mycobiota associated with group e had the highest species diversity with an average number -sd of 54.3-11.5 detected otus while the lowest value is related to group a 19-6.1. the highest average values of the shannon and pielou's evenness indices were recovered in the community associated with groups of larvae b and c 2.46 and 2.45 0.67 and 0.62 respectively whereas group a had the lowest values.

the average abundance of each group is shown only the fungal generaclasses with an average abundance 1 are reported those with an abundance lower than 1 are classified as other classesgenera.the microbiological analysis shows that group b larvae fed on chicken feed and vegetable waste 174 days is associated with the greatest species diversity respect to groups a c and d larvae fed on chicken feed only.

the gut of each larva was dissected washed in sterile 1x pbs and finally transferred to 300ml of the enrichment medium gly 25gl glycerol 10gl yeast extract.microbiological analysesin order to isolate yeasts and molds associated with h. illucens two different media were employed respectively a ypd agar medium 20gl peptone 10gl yeast extract 20gl glu- cose 20gl agar and b malt 2 m2 agar medium 20gl malt 3gl yeast extract 15gl agar both supplemented with chloramphenicol 100mgl to avoid bacterial growth.

in our analyses the fungus t. asahii has been detected in a b c and d groups highlighting that further investigations are required to characterize this opportunistic yeast and its presence in insect-based feed or food.regarding the general activity of the yeasts producing killer toxins the temperature range needs to be taken in account the optimal condition varies depending on the toxins and the yeast species but they are generally active and able to produce toxins at temperatures below 30c .

three strains of each yeast species were spotted in duplicate on the surface of previously prepared mba medium and the plates were incubated at 26c for 48 h. presence of an inhibition zone around the spot of supposed killer yeast was suggestive of an antimicrobial activity.dna extraction from insect guts and next generation sequencing 454 technologythe variability of the mycobiota of bsf larvae was also evaluated by next generation sequenc- ing 454 technology using the fungal ribosomal its region as a target.

finally no ubiquitous yeast species presents in all groups was isolated in culture.by the use of the amplicon-based next-generation sequencing ngs technique a better knowledge of the fungal community of bsf larvae was obtained.

differences in the fungal communities were highlighted suggesting that the type of substrate selects diverse yeast and mold genera in particular vegetable waste is associated with a greater diversity of fungal species compared to chicken feed only.

the analysis has shown more similarities between the groups of samples characterized by the same diet groups a-c larvae fed on chicken feed and groups b-e larvae fed on chicken feed and vegetable waste.

the second major component in group a is represented by microbotryomycetes 39.2. the analysis shows that pichia is the dominant genus in groups b and e 53.2 and 93.7 respec- tively whereas groups c and d are represented almost entirely by the genera geotrichum and trichosporon 90.3 and 87.7 respectively.

