despite these general features important differences between gra and hay diets were noted.isotopic labeling of microbial n showed a 3 slower rate of secondary colonization with hay diets as during this intervalthe contribution of microbial n in the plant residue increased by 26 for gra diets but only 8.4 for hay diets.

hay diets had a greater bacterial diversity indices in the sab community in terms of richness shannon and simpson index indicating the presence of a greater number of bacterial species and similar abundance of the different bacterial species otu's compared to gra diets supplementary table 4 but those differences tended to disappear at 48 h incubation f t. permutational analysis of variance showed a strong effect of the f t interaction on the structure of the sab community  indicating that differences between forage types disappeared at later stages of the colonization process 48 h. vitamin e supplementation had no effect on the structure of the sab community.

taken together the observations suggest that primary colonizing bacteria for gra are likely to utilize soluble nutrients and easily accessible substrates as was confirmed by the high disappearances for wsc 75 true n 41 and dm 21 but low ndf disappearance 7.for hay diets the most abundant genera during the early colonization stage was streptococcus 20.3 which was part of a more complex bacterial community than observed in gra diets in terms of diversity  158 otus and network density  38 nodes and 80 edges highlighting the complexity of early hay colonization moreover the high proportion of negative correlations 40 suggested the importance of competition processes among bacterial groups possibly as a result of limiting availability of fermentable substrates.

the proportion of sab-n resulting from ammonia incorporation was 17 20 26 and 33 for treatments gra  gra  hay and hay  respectively thus higher for hay than gra diets p 0.017 with no effect of vitamin e.quantitative pcr  and supplementary table 4 showed a faster colonization of gra diets by bacteria methanogens and protozoa during the early fermentation 8 h while no differences compared to hay were observed thereafter f t. vitamin e supplementation increased the concentration of bacteria methanogens protozoa and anaerobic fungi associated with the plant residues.

although the lab network was very simple across diets it varied over time and peaked at 2-4 h for gra diets and at 8-24 h for hay diets representing over 70 of the entire bacterial community suggesting that the most abundant species i.e.

gra diets promoted a less complex sab network than hay diets at 2 h 50 vs. 88 nodes4 h 44 vs. 49 and 8 h 21 vs. 59 but similar values were observed at 48 h after feeding 26 vs. 27. moreover the proportion of negative correlations tended to decrease over time in hay from 41 to 7 but remained constant in gra diets .

moreover the structure of the bacterial community differed between the forage types according to cca the bacterial community in gra diets was positively correlated with increased levels of bacteria  1.91 log methanogens  1.42 and protozoa  1.06 indicating a more effective colonization process than in hay diets.

in terms of bacterial diversity supplementary table 4 chao index or good's coverage remained high and constant indicating that sequencing depth was comparable across all samples.the bacterial diversity in the epiphytic community feed samples at 0 h was composed of 480 and 532 otus in gra and hay diets respectively but once inside the vessels feeds were rapidly colonized by the rumen bacterial community which reached a maximum diversity at 2 h after feeding .

in terms of bacterial taxonomy the most abundant genera duringthe early colonization of gra diets were lactobacillus 17.3 and prevotella 16.8. these microbes were part of a relatively simple bacterial network 50 nodes and 63 edges which had a higher proportion of positive correlations among bacterial genera 82 positive perhaps as a result of high availability of easily fermentable substrates.

this acceleration meant that hay diets reached similar degrees of colonization to gra diets at 48 h after feeding 61 of the total n. as a result hay diets showed higher disappearances for dm  52 true n  108 and ndf  29 during the 8-48 h interval.

moreover we demonstrated that despite having similar chemical composition grass diets had a positive effect on bacterial protein synthesis  16 whilst grass hay increased methane emissions  35 suggesting that substantial differences in the feed colonization and utilization pattern must have occurred.this study aims to investigate the differences in the rumen microbiome between fresh grass gra and grass hay hay diets when fed alone or supplemented by vitamin e. it was hypothesized that vitamin e supplementation could promote a shift in the rumen microbiota and have a positive impact on the feed colonization process being this effect diet dependent based on its natural vitamin e content.

a significant interaction between the type of forage and time was observed for total vfa acetate propionate and butyrate molar proportions total lactate ph and ammonia with a higher concentration of fermentation products from gra than for hay diets during early fermentation 2-4 h after feeding but no differences during the later fermentation time points 8-24 h. vitamin e supplementation had a minor effect on the fermentation pattern and only increased total lactate concentration.plant colonization by microbes based on15n and qpcrisotopic labeling of rumen microbes showed that 15n enrichment of plant residues progressively increased as a result of microbial colonization and supplementary table 4. this was more rapid in gra diets during the early stages and microbes represented 16 28 and 42 of the total n in plant residue at 2 4 and 8 h while hay was colonized at a slower speed 9 14 and 17 respectively.

our findings based on isotopic labeling of rumen microbes revealed that primaryfigure 9  metabolite fingerprinting based on ftir spectroscopy depicting the effect of the type of forage and vitamin e supplementation on the dynamics the rumen interactome in the rusitec system a cell free fraction a a microbial pellet recovered from the planktonic phase b and a plant residue including microorganism c. canonical analysis of principal coordinate was performed based on bray-curtis dissimilarity.colonization of gra was twice as fast as hay since at 2 h after feeding 16 of the total n in the plant residue from gra diets was microbial n but only 9 in hay diets.

these two fibrolytic bacteria represented a greater proportion of the total population in hay than gra diets 30 vs. 20. indeed isotopic labeling of microbial n revealed a 2 faster colonization of hay vs. gra diets during the 8-48 h interval 42 vs. 20 as well as a higher level of total bacteria  1.58 log and methanogens  1.29 log.

several variables were correlated with the sample distribution in cca during the primary colonization 2 h after feeding the structure of the sab community was positively correlated with the concentration of lactate ammonia and total vfa p  0.001. during the secondary colonization 4-8 h after feeding sab community was positively correlated with the concentration of bacteria protozoa and methanogens for gra samples but with the vessel ph propionate molar proportion and bacterial diversity for hay samples p  0.001. during the tertiary colonization 8 h after feeding sab community was positively correlated with the concentration of anaerobic fungi p  0.001.in the liquid phase lab diversity was lowest during the fermentation peak 2-8 h after feeding and supplementary table 4. similar to observed for sab lab diversity was higher for hay than gra diets while vitamin e supplementation decreased all diversity indices.

