Turkey vultures primarily relied on their acute olfactory senses to locate food Stager 1964 thus some decomposition assists location but when given a choice vultures prefer 1-d-old carcasses over 5-d-old carcasses Houston 1986.

We acknowledge that very few studies directly and formally evaluated these hypotheses in scav- engers and that a recent study of food washing in a nonscavenger found that washing food reduced infection Sarabian and MacIntosh 2015.

With the exception of food washing none of these hypotheses have been properly evaluated as an adaptation to avoid sickness from carrion.

There is some support for having a specialized micro- biome having enhanced immunologic defenses avoiding rotten food and maintaining a low gastric pH to eliminate pathogens.

2014 5 avoid rotten food Houston 1986 6 bald heads Wink 1995 7 specialized immune system de la Lastra and de la Fuente 2007 and 8 rapid ingestion Houston and Cooper 1975.We systematically reviewed articles on carrion eaters' adaptations by using the Web of Science database see PRISMA diagram in Supplementary Material.

Alligators Alligator mississippienis kill and scavenge their food Grigg and Kirshner 2015 and have leukocytes with antifungal properties against a variety of fungal pathogens.

Facultatively scavenging albatrosses Diomedea exulans also have low gastric pH but this may also be an adaption for patchily distributed food which requires rapid digestion for large meals Gre'millet et al.

We found no studies thatSHORT COMMUNICATIONS579formally tested whether urine or uric acid kills carrion-acquired pathogens.Avoiding rotten foodHouston 1986 observed that turkey vul- tures avoided rotten food by recording the time it took for scavengers to find carcasses and the proportion of the carcass eaten.

2001 hypothesized that brown tree snakes either actively seek rotten food or they are unable to find carrion that has not rotted.

Brown tree snakes are hypothesized to have evolved salivary secretions that are specialized to neutralize toxic by-products of microbial metabolism within rotting food Shivik 2006.Bald headsAlthough suggested in the popular litera- ture Stone 1993 we found no empirical evidence to support the hypothesis that bald heads are an adaptation to avoid becoming sick by facilitating cleanliness.

