this allows diversi- fication of the diet in most patients encouraging adherence and minimizing any potentially hazardous effects on the mi- crobiome 73.gastrointestinal symptomsstudies in healthy individualsas previously mentioned malabsorption of polyols may in- duce laxative effects as well as flatulence bloating and ab- dominal discomfort in sensitive individuals 10. however a great deal of intra- and intersubject variability exists in the threshold of polyol ingestion required to induce gastrointes- tinal symptoms and many healthy adults even with moder- ate doses will experience no symptoms at all 74. similar to the relation seen with malabsorption symptom provocation with polyols also appears to be dose dependent and increases when polyols are consumed in conjunction with other car- bohydrates 24 75. for example most healthy individuals tolerate 10 g sorbitold with only mild gastrointestinal dis- comfort such as flatulence or bloating 22 23. however doses of 20 g sorbitold can evoke more distressing symp- toms of abdominal pain and diarrhea 23. this dose- dependent relation has also been seen with isomalt lactitol and maltitol 76.although malabsorption accounts for a substantial pro- portion of symptoms some studies have shown that gastro- intestinal symptoms do not necessarily correlate with the degree of hydrogen production during breath testing sug- gesting that factors other than malabsorption are involvedreview of polyols in gastrointestinal health and ibs 593in the development of gastrointestinal symptoms 22 28 77. for instance disaccharide polyols lactitol are generally better tolerated than monosaccharide polyols sorbitol sec- ondary to the latter exerting a greater osmotic load in the gastrointestinal tract leading to an increased concentration of water in the colon and a consequent greater laxative effect 78 79. accelerated small bowel transit time seen with pol- yol ingestion also results in increased osmosis and water re- tention within the small bowel lumen and correlates with increased abdominal discomfort in healthy individuals 46. of note just as erythritol is more completely absorbed than the other polyols it also produces fewer intestinal symptoms.

in patients with abdominal pain and diarrhea-predominant ibs ibs-d colonic dysmotility may be secondary to an in- creased incidence of high-amplitude propagating contrac- tions and elevated intraluminal pressures that parallel rapid colonic transit time 38. small intestinal dysmotility identified as clustered contractions during episodes of ab- dominal colic has also been observed in patients with ibs 39 40. animal studies showed that duodenal motilityreview of polyols in gastrointestinal health and ibs 591can be stimulated by hyperosmolar solutions of mannitol and these motility changes occur without changes in gas- tric inhibitory peptide or insulin 41 42. however to our knowledge few studies in adult patients have specifi- cally examined the relation between polyol consumption and gastrointestinal motility.studies in healthy volunteersalthough there are few data on the effects of polyols on gas- trointestinal motility in healthy volunteers several studies from the surgical literature evaluated the effects of chewing sugar-free gum which contains various polyols on postsur- gical recovery of gastrointestinal function and motility 43 44. the mechanism by which gum chewing enhances bowel motility is presumed to be secondary to direct stimulation of the cephalic-vagal reflex.

in a controlled study with the use of hydrogen breath testing in 73 patients with ibs and 87 healthy controls fructose-sorbitol malab- sorption was frequent but not significantly different in the2 groups ibs 30.1 compared with controls 40.2. the authors concluded that fructose-sorbitol malabsorption was unlikely to play a substantial role in the etiology or symptomatology of ibs 27. however another breath- testing study that evaluated fructose-sorbitol malabsorption in 25 patients with ibs and 25 healthy controls given 5 g of sorbitol and a mixture of 25 g fructose plus 5 g sorbitol found increased breath hydrogen excretion in the ibs group which was suggestive of increased malabsorption 28.absorption of sorbitol and mannitol was studied in pa- tients with ibs and healthy controls in a randomized double blind placebo-controlled crossover study by yao et al.

specifically diets low in short-chain poorly absorbed carbohydrates known as fer- mentable oligosaccharides disaccharides monosaccha- rides and polyols fodmaps have been shown to help relieve gastrointestinal symptoms in patients with ibs 5 6. fodmaps likely promote intestinal discomfort through osmotic effects as well as through increased gas production after rapid fermentation by bacteria in the distal small and large bowel figures 1 and 2 7. although fodmaps are often categorized together in the discussion of carbohydrates it is im- portant to note that they are a diverse group of sugars that exert different effects in different parts of the gastrointestinal tract 8. polyols are a specific group of sugar alcohols that are formed via the catalytic hydrogenation of carbohydrates.

after ingesting 10- and 20-g solutions of sorbitol malabsorption was present in 90 and 100 of healthy vol- unteers respectively 22. another part of this study found that after ingesting a 5-g solution of sorbitol at concentra- tions of 2 4 8 and 16 malabsorption was presentin 10 12 22 and 43 of healthy volunteers 22. thus dose and concentration influence the degree to which sorbitol is malabsorbed.

al- though polyols have many attractive commercial benefits they have also been shown to trigger gastrointestinal symp- toms and exert laxative effects when consumed in excess 10. the purpose of this review is to evaluate the available literature on the effects of polyols on the gastrointestinal tract in persons with and without ibs.methodswe first constructed a search strategy for pubmed ovid and embase using free-text terms to explore articles on individual polyols and terms including absorption fermentation motility permeability and gastrointestinal symp- toms.

in this study 75 healthy volunteers consumed 25-g tablets of milk chocolate containing 10 g sucrose and lactitol in ratios of 100 55 or 010 daily for 7 d. in the group that consumed the 010 ratio there was a significant increase in bifidobacteria but no significant change in fecal anaerobes aerobes enterobacteriacae or lactobacilli 63. the authors therefore concluded that low doses of lactitol might also function as a prebiotic and be beneficial in inducing a healthy colonic microbiome 63.studies in patients with ibsmultiple studies have shown differences in the diversity and abundance of bacterial communities as well as in the stabil- ity and metabolic activity of the microbiome in patients with ibs compared with healthy controls 4 64-69. it is well rec- ognized that dietary interventions can affect the gut micro- biome 70 however we were not able to find studies that specifically addressed the effects of polyols on the micro- biome.

in ad- dition mannitol absorption was more rapid than sorbitol absorption in patients with ibs but not in healthy con- trols 29. the authors performed a second study which once again showed a more complete absorption of polyols in patients with ibs than in healthy controls 30. it has been hypothesized that patients with ibs might have slower oral-cecal transit times than healthy individuals allowing for additional absorption of the polyols.

both sorbitol and mannitol induced abdominal symptoms in patients with ibs despite evidence suggesting superior absorption compared with in healthy controls 29 30.these findings are consistent with the conventional wis- dom that states that polyols and other poorly absorbed sub- strates trigger symptoms in patients with ibs via direct osmotic effects and secondary effects induced by bacterial fermentation which produces scfas and gases.

author disclosures al and wdc no conflicts of interest.address correspondence to wdc e-mail wcheymed.umich.edu.abbreviations used fodmap fermentable oligosaccharide disaccharide monosaccharide and polyol ibs irritable bowel syndrome ibs-c irritable bowel syndrome constipation predominant ibs-d irritable bowel syndrome diarrhea predominant ppm parts per million.in the role that diet plays in ibs.

the au- thors found that first flatus and first bowel sounds occurred significantly earlier in patients who received xylitol- containing gum than in controls first flatus 22.43 67.19 h for study group compared with 28.12 6 10.36 h for controls p  0.001 and first bowel sounds 8.26 61.04 h for study group compared with 12.07 6 3.26 h for controls p  0.001. no significant differences in the time to first bowel movement occurred between groups.

45 performed a randomized controlled trial of 109 women 53 study patients and 56 controls undergoing laparoscopic surgery to evaluate the effects of xylitol chewing gum on gas- trointestinal motility which was measured as the time to first bowel sounds flatus and bowel movement.

differences in the faecal flora of healthy individuals and patients with irritable bowel syndrome and in vitro effects of a synbiotic upon gut flora composition.

in- digestible or poorly absorbed carbohydrates are known to be important prebiotics for the gut microbiome 57 58. thus it is important to understand how polyols affect the gut mi- crobiome in healthy persons and patients with ibs.studies in healthy volunteersthere are some data from animal and human studies which have addressed the effects of polyols such as xylitol isomalt and lactitol on the gut microbiome.

the differences in the time to first flatus and bowel sounds suggested that xylitol might affect postoperative gastrointes- tinal motility and transit 45. however this study did not investigate the mechanisms behind the enhanced transit and it is impossible to distinguish between the effects of the cephalic-vagal reflex compared with the effects from the polyol.madsen et al.

