taking into account that killing assays were carried out in a 51 attacker-to-prey relationship we can conclude that upon encountering danger signals from s. marcescens t6ss opponents even when partially sharing a similar set of effectors and immunity proteins the expression of the t6ss system of a serratia prey strain is transcriptionally upregulated over basal expression levels by rcsb in an attempt to counteract an enemy whose killing capacity outweighs the neutralizing ability of the prey.on the other hand when we examined the interspecific interaction of s. marcescens with acinetobacter strains we found that either a. baumannii atcc 17978 or a. noso- comialis m2 was able to efficiently kill s. marcescens strains.

marcescens strain displays rcsb-dependent t6ss expression levels that are equivalent to those obtained with an unchallenged serratia strain.we also determined that wild-type serratia either s. marcescens rm66262 or db10 is not able to kill a tssm strain a result that puts forth serratia's inability to detect and fire the t6ss machinery when an apparently harmless t6ss- kin strain is encountered.

in agreement with the incapacity of a wild-type strain to target either an rcsb or a tssm strain the reporter was not induced from either the rcsb or the tssm background upon this encounter  right.the latter results demonstrate that in a serratia intraspecific competition the induction of a prey's t6ss expression is rcsb dependent and occurs only when both attacker and prey carry a functional t6ss.to further understand the s. marcescens competition strategy we tested whether the stimulus detected by a t6ss s. marcescens strain in the encounter with a kin t6ss strain would be enough to enable the former strain to kill an otherwise undetectedfig 6 acinetobacter killing capacity and rcsb-dependent induction of serratia t6ss expression.

s. marcescens db10 wild type or tssm attacker strains and s. marcescens rm66262 or e. coli mc4100 prey were coincubated with s. marcescens rm66262 tssmppromt6ss reporter at a 511 ratio fig.

interestingly by in silico analysis we found that the rcsb box motif has been highly conserved in the t6ss promoter region of a wide variety of serratia strains isolated either from hosts or ambient sources indicating that a strong selective pressure might have evolutionarily preserved rcsb-dependent regulatory control over serratia t6ss expression.when s. marcescens strain rm66262 and its close relative s. marcescens strain db10were assayed in intraspecific competition experiments an rcsb mutant strain displayed a killing deficiency similar to the one determined for a tssm mutant strain which is unable to assemble the t6ss.

in contrast to the tit-for-tat action the s. marcescens strategy allows the menaced bacteria to display nonspatially oriented targeting of bystander preys.therefore the competition-dependent s. marcescens t6ss firing behavior differs from that in previous reports postulating that in s. marcescens db10 the assembly of the t6ss is stochastic and ready for a circumstantial attack irrespective of whether the encounter is with either aggressive t6ss or innocuous t6ss- bacteria .

moreover in the encounter with a tssm target strain the results for an rm66262 rcsb attacker were also indistinguishable from the results for the wild-type or tssm attacker strain .these results suggested that in an intraspecific encounter one s. marcescens strain will not attack another s. marcescens strain if the latter does not express an active t6ss.fig 4 rcsb controls serratia intraspecies t6ss-mediated competition.

s. marcescens strain db10 possesses a single t6ss with potent antibacterial activity delivering at least six anti- bacterial effector proteins including the peptidoglycan hydrolases ssp1 and ssp2 .previous work indicated that the expression of the t6ss in s. marcescens db10 depends on one large transcriptional unit that encompasses the whole cluster and is constitutively active as it was found to be independent of the growth phase the growth medium composition or contact with other bacterial cells assayed .

s3a and b. to summarize our results demonstrate that t6ss expression is modulated by rcsb at the transcriptional level in s. marcescens rm66262 and suggest that this regulatory mechanism might have been subjected to strong selective pressure along evolution in serratia.rcsb controls s. marcescens t6ss-mediated intraspecies competition.

using the s. marcescens db10 strain previous reports have shown that the intraspecies killing of competing serratia bacteria occurs irrespective of the functionality of the t6ss of the prey discarding a counterattack such as a tit-for-tat type of reciprocal response for serratia  .

s. marcescens rm66262 tssm or s. marcescens db10 tssm mutants were 57-fold or 107-fold less proficient than their respective parental strains wt in outcompeting wild-type counterpart preys.

a s. marcescens rm66262ppromt6ss and the indicated mutant strains were incubated with e. coli mc4100 in a 51 attackertarget ratio for 4 h. s. marcescens rm66262ppromt6ss alone was used as the control.

average values - sd for four independent experiments are shown  p  0.01. b s. marcescens db10 wt or tssm mutant strains were incubated with s. marcescens rm66262 wt or mutant strains carrying the ppromt6ss in a 51 attackertarget ratio for 6 h at 37degc.

average values - sd from three independent experiments are shown  p  0.001.this is further supported by the observation that an s. marcescens rm66262 rcsb prey was not targeted by either a wild-type s. marcescens db10 or a tssm attacker .

because the acinetobacter strain used expresses its t6ss constitutively  the latter results indicate that in this encounter only serratia follows a counterattack mode of action.to verify that the phenotypes were not restricted to the interaction of serratia with a unique acinetobacter strain we also determined that acinetobacter nosocomialis strain m2 was able to kill s. marcescens rm66262 reducing the cfu count by 5 orders of magnitude .

