The food conversion ratio FCR of shrimp fed diets containing KBM SHR-KL and SHR-KH were not statistically different than those fed the control diet SHR-C 1.70 - 0.12 orthogonal contrast Q Test -0.99 p  0.7.

All diets were fed within four months of manufacture.IngredientComposition g kg-1 as fedControl50 KBM100 KBMIngredientComposition g kg-1 as fedSal-CThe effect of KBM on growth survival and feed efficiency of the Pacific white shrimpHatchery-raised Pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei were acquired from SKY8 Shrimp Farm LLC Stoughton MA USA and stocked at 60 shrimptank shrimp average weight was 4.52 - 0.21 g 1.S.D.

The effect of experimental diets on shrimp growth rate and feed conversion ratio and the effect of experimental diets on animal growth rate was assessed using a one-factor analytical design.

Thus none of the treatments had an unpalatable flavor or texture and in the words of Tamar Haspel writer for The Plate the shrimp fed the KBM diets ''tasted like shrimp'' .

All diets were fed within four months of manufacture.For smallmouth grunt Haemulon chrysargyreum trials  all dry ingredients were mixed using a feed mixer Model KSMS Kitchen Aid Inc. St. Joseph Michigan USA.

Animal care and procedures used in this trial were approved by Roger Williams University Animal Care and Use Committee IACUC protocol R-13-12-20.To determine the effect of KBM on shrimp growth and survival three diets of varying KBM inclusion were formulated .

Shrimp fed diet with 100 FM replacement SHR-KH grew less than those fed the control diet SHR-C and shrimp fed diet with 50 FM replacement SHR-KL showed growth intermediate to and not statistically different from either SHR-C or SHR-KH .

While all pellets were consumed by shrimps those fed SHR-HK did need to swim in the water column to retrieve some of the pellets while those fed SHR-LK and SHR-C mostly fed off the tank floor.

Together these data represent the initial trials for the feasibility of KBM as a suitable SCP for use in aquafeeds.METHODSSingle cell protein biomass and feed pellet formulationMethylobacterium extorquens strain KB203 was produced via standard aerobic fermentation processes  and de-watered to form a flour referred to as KnipBio Meal KBM.

Amino acid analysis was performed using a Beckman 7300 Amino Acid Analyzer University of Missouri Analytical Lab Columbia MO USA.Apparent digestibility coefficients of each nutrient in the experimental diets were calculated according to the following equations  ADCNdiet  100 - 100Yd X NfYf in feces X NdADCNingredient  a  bX ADCNt - a X ADCNrb-1where ADCN  apparent digestibility coefficient of nutrient Yd   Yttrium oxide in diet Nf   nutrient in feces Yf   Yttrium oxide in feces Nd   nutrient in diet p  proportion of test ingredient in the test diet a  1 - px nutrient content of the reference diet b  px nutrient content of the test ingredient t  apparent digestibility coefficients of the nutrient in the test diets r  apparent digestibility coefficients of the nutrient in the reference diet.Statistical analysesStatistical analyses were conducted using JMP 8.0 SAS Inc. Cary NC USA.

