Similarly to the Gram-positive isolates tyramine levels were reduced by the majority of Gram-negative bacteria except for E. coli H.1 and H.10 M. morganii J.1 and K. pneumoniae I.2.Spermidine levels were increased following co- incubation with BAs for the majority of both Gram- positive and Gram-negative bacteria .However all the Gram-positive C. perfringens isolates B.1 B.2 and B.3 reduced spermidine levels while the Gram-negative strains E. coli H.6 H.9 and H.14 also reduced spermidine levels.

In murine models microbiota-derived taurine histamine and spermine were shown to influ- ence host-microbiome interactions by co-modulating NLRP6 inflammasome signaling epithelial interleu- kin-18 secretion and downstream anti-microbial pep- tide secretion .However other than histamine it is unknownwhich BAs can be produced or degraded by bacteria derived from the human gut.

In total 54 isolates are Gram positive  and 20 isolates are Gram negative .avium or E. gallinarum isolates in the presence of AAs and also was not produced in the presence of BAs .

Similarly spermine was secreted by all Gram-negative isolates except for K. pneumoniae I.1 .Tabulated data for Gram-positive and Gram-nega- tive bacteria can be observed in supplementary Tables S1 and S2 respectively.Bacterial production and degradation of BAs in the presence of BAsIn vivo bacteria are exposed to multiple substrates and may not produce BAs in the sole presence of AAs.

We previously demonstrated that Lactobacillus saerimneri 30a which secretes histamine and cadaverine induces rapid weight loss and immunological effects depen- dent on activation of histamine receptor-2 within the mucosa .

All of the Gram-positive Clostridium perfringens iso- lates B.1 B.2 and B.3 reduced histamine levels while the Gram-negative strains E. coli H.1 H.9 and H.14 and K. pneumoniae I.2 also reduced histamine levels.

For example some strains could produce histamine andor tyramine at levels above the maximum limit tolerated in fish products histamine 200 mgkg tyr- amine 100 mgkg as required by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA and the World Health Organization WHO .

The remaining authors have no potential conflicts of interest.FundingThis work was supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation SNSF CRSII3154488.ReferencesLey RE Turnbaugh PJ Klein S et al.

4441022-1023.Frei R Lauener RP Crameri R et al.

67451-461.Carding S Verbeke K Vipond D et al.

