de vries23 r. van houdt41public health laboratory public health service amsterdam amsterdam the netherlands 2public health service amsterdam sexually transmitted infections outpatient clinic amsterdam the netherlands 3department of dermatology amsterdam medical centre university of amsterdam amsterdam the netherlands and 4department of medical microbiology and infection prevention vu university medical centre amsterdam the netherlandsincreasing evidence suggests that the cervico-vaginal micro- biome cvm plays an important role in acquiring sexually transmitted infections stis.

clustered cvm predominantly com- prised either diverse anaerobic bacteria n 14 39 42 lactobacillus iners n 14 32 34 or lactobacillus crispatus n 14 22 24. in multivariable analysis we found that the cvm was significantly associated with c. trachomatis infection or 14 4.2 95 confidence interval ci 1.2-15.4 for women with diverse anaerobic cvm and or 14 4.4 ci 1.3-15.6 for women with l. iners-dominated cvm compared to women with l. crispatus-dominated cvm as was younger age or 14 3.1 ci 1.1-8.7 for those  yue yong 21 years old and reporting a steady sex part- ner or 14 3.6 ci 1.4-9.4. women who tested positive for chlamydia trachomatis infection after having been contact- traced by a chlamydia positive partner were more likely to have cvm dominated by l. iners or by diverse anaerobic bacteria than by l. crispatus.automated profiling of the human virome from raw metagenomic datayumna moosa12 michael vilsker3 ewout vanden eyden4 vagner fonseca5 sam nooij6 koen deforche3 tulio de oliveira121nelson r mandela school of medicine college of health sciences university of kwazulu-natal ukzn south africa 2centre for the aids programme of research in south africa caprisa ukzn south africa 3emweb herent belgium 4rega instituut ku leuven belgium 5universidade do estado da bahia uneb brazil and 6rijksinstituut voor volksgezondheid en milieu rivm the netherlandsviruses influence human health as conventional pathogens as modulators of gene expression and through their involvement in complex host-microbiome interactions.

here we studied the cvm in women exposed to chlamydia trachomatis ct. we included 98 women who were notified by ct-positive sex partners via con- tact-tracing at the sti outpatient clinic in amsterdam the netherlands.

drexler5 p. lemey11clinical and epidemiological virology department of microbiology and immunology ku leuven rega institute for medical research leuven belgium 2department of biology evolutionary ecology group university of antwerp antwerp belgium 3institute of vertebrate biology academy of sciences of the czech republic studenec czech republic 4ecology evolution and genomics of infectious disease research group institute of integrative biology university of liverpool liverpool uk and 5institute of virology university of bonn medical centre bonn germanyhepatitis c virus hcv is considered to be a major public health problem infecting 3 of the human population and causing acute and chronic liver disease.

poljak11institute of microbiology and immunology faculty of medicine university of ljubljana ljubljana slovenia 2institute of pathology faculty of medicine university of ljubljana slovenia and 3department of radiation oncology institute of oncology ljubljana sloveniaduring one of our previous works we investigated the integra- tion of a low-risk human papillomavirus' hpv genetic material into the human genome we aimed to elucidate whether the integration events had helped facilitate the manifestation of cancer in an individual with a hpv11-positive sinonasal squa- mous cell carcinoma.

although the bulk of the breakpoints yielded through the three different topologies did overlap to some degree a great deal of breakpoints varied greatly between the approaches.the cervico-vaginale microbiota in chlamydia trachomtais notified women a case-control study at the sexually transmitted infection outpatient clinic in amsterdamcharlotte van der veer1 s.m.

cervico-vaginal samples and clinical data were collected for all women.

the cvm was characterized for 93 women of whom 52 were ct positive and 41 ct negative.

