bbb function was described as normal in early pd  but abcb1 function in advanced treated pd patients has not yet been explored in detail .may chronic application of pd drugs influence abcb1 transporter functionexperimental findings on dopamine agonists i.e.

the underlying pathophysiology of pd probably results from multi factorial causes which predispose for pd onset alone or in combination.

in this regard it is noteworthy that the abcb1 function weakening verapamil is well known as onset of idio- pathic pd onset facilitating or pd syndrome inducing com- pound .

moreover changes of concomitant drugs and titration of pd drugs themselves are frequent in the daily clinical routine of management of pd patients.

these phenomena oftenpro'scon'sappear with high dosing of pd drugs in advanced pd stages.

to date drugs are often used in combination with levodopa or dopamine agonist without con- siderations on the putative exhaustion of the compensation potential of the abcb1 transporters system in the clinic.conclusionthere is an important role of abcb1 in the drug treatment of pd but not in terms of inhibition of this efflux transporters system for elevation of pd drug disposition and their sympto- matic efficacy.

experimental findings suggest that abcb1 modulation at the bbb level may improve symptomatic drug effects but will they influence the etiology or progression of parkinson's disease pd  parkinson's diseasethis second most common chronic neurodegenerative disease is characterized by a smoldering disease process with an individually variable appearance of predominant motor vege- tative and psychopathological symptoms.

evidence accumu- lates that certain genetic or environmental factors and exposure to exogenous and endogenous toxins predispose for pd onset .

this event cascade induce a decrease of abcb1 expression and -function .bodyaccumulation of xenobiotics and diminution of detoxification processes are linked to onset and progression of pd.

it is far from clear whether neuronal death features in pd such as protein mis- folding alpha synuclein enrichment etc.

therefore mao-b inhibition is looked upon as 'neuroprotec- tive' in pd.

in the past a lot of effort has been undertaken to demonstrate a delay of progression of the neurodegenerative process in pd patients with these agents .

this delaying or protective effect got lost sooner of later once they were applied together with other pd drugs and thus hypothetical toxin accumulation due to a consecu- tive chronic impairment of abcb1 function.

they were tested in pd patients on a chronic regimen with levodopa or dopamine agonists.expert opinionabcb1 is an efflux pump linked to protection at the brain level.

pd drugs and xenobiotics are abcb1 substrates.

