calculations and statisticsorganic loading rate-olr g vs l-1 d-1total ammonium nitrogen-1.95 - 0.13.3-3.84.3-6.06.5-8.08.5-10the fan concentration was calculated by the following equationtan g nh -n l-1 p1 was used as the baseline before acclimation strategy with addition of nh4cl.fan tan1101and measured tan levels and the calculated fan levels for both re- actors are depicted in an e-supplement file.analysesphysicochemical analysests vs tkn and tan were measured according to .

first even though tan levels were increased 1.6-folds to 10 g nh4-n l-1 the fan levels were stable 800-850 mg nh3-n l-1 e-supplement file throughout the experiment due to the lower ph along with the am- monia increase c. this supports the hypothesis expressed by many researchers that fan is the major toxic form of ammonia .

overall the current study using protein-rich microalgae as primary substrate has shown for the first time that a successful continuous ad acclimation process to extremely high ammonia levels is possible.microbial community dynamicsalpha diversity a based on chao 1 bias-corrected index decreased alongside with the increase of ammonia levels in both re- actors.

acclimation to extremely high ammonia levels in continuous biomethanation process and the associated microbial community dynamicshailin tian ioannis a. fotidis enrico mancini laura treu ahmed mahdymercedes ballesteros cristina gonzalez-fernandez irini angelidakia department of environmental engineering technical university of denmark bygningstorvet bygning 115 dk-2800 kgs.

lyngby denmarkb department of agronomy food natural resources animal and environment dafnae viale dell'universita 16 35020 legnaro padova italyc department of agricultural microbiology faculty of agriculture zagazig university 44511 zagazig egyptd biotechnological processes for energy production unit - imdea energy 28935 mostoles madrid spaine biofuels unit - research center for energy environment and technology ciemat 28040 madrid spaing r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f o keywordsmethaneammonia inhibition microbial community syntrophic acetate oxidizer methanosarcinaa b s t r a c t acclimatized anaerobic communities to high ammonia levels can offer a solution to the ammonia toxicity problem in biogas reactors.

indicating strong hydrogenotrophic methanogenic activity at extreme ammonia levels  7 g nh -n l-1.

overall this study demonstrated for the first time that ac- climation of methanogenic communities to extreme ammonia levels in continuous ad process is possible by developing a specialised acclimation ad microbiome.introductionanaerobic digestion ad is a sustainable technology that can pro- duce biogas and nutrient-rich bio-fertilizer from a broad variety of re- sidual biomass e.g.

acclimation of microbial consortia to high ammonia levels could provide a practical and cost-effective method to digest protein-rich substrates .

additionally a recent research showed that fast and efficient acclimatization of anaerobic consortia to high am- monia levels is possible in batch and fed-batch reactors  .

lack of successfully acclimatizing the processtherefore the main aim of the present study was to use for the first time cstr reactors fed with protein-rich microalgae 3rd generation biomass as the main substrate to successfully acclimatize methano- genic consortia to extremely high ammonia levels  7 g nh -n l-1 overcoming the microbial washout effect.

the acclimation strategy was im- plemented with stepwise increase of tan concentration using ammoniachloride 0.5 g nh -n l-1 each step up to 10 g nh -n l-1 both44to extremely high ammonia levels could probably be attributed to the washout effect by which inhibited microorganisms not growing fast enough at a specific retention time were washed out from the reactor .

previous microbial community assessment studies during different acclimation processes to high ammonia levels have reported con- troversial results.

on one hand there are studies indicating that the acclimation process to high ammonia levels caused a shift from acet-iclastic to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis inside the reactor and the feedstock in the influent bottle.

associated aceticlastic pathway has been found to be predominant at high ammonia levels .

in- terestingly both reactors in the present study had a stable performance at extreme ammonia levels contradictingchallenging this theoretical threshold.

