We opine that the results obtained reinforce the view that rather than being devoid of life the Atacama Desert is a microbial treasure trove in the search for the next generation of bioactive natural products.The purpose of this paper is to report the remarkably high diversity of actinobacteria in the Atacama Desert and highlight its exceptional significance for biodiscovery campaigns.

This hypothesis is given credence by recent reports that members of rare bac- terial taxa became dominant in spring sediment microcosm experiments following exposure to environmental stressorsand are resuscitated in a variety of ecosystems following rewetting of dry soils.The results of this study commend several future research imperatives among which we highlight the fol- lowing 1 develop innovative isolationcultivation techniques to enable whole organism physiology of desert microorganisms to be determined 2 evaluate the viability and metabolic activity of desert microbiomes using for example microcosms  DNA stable isotope probing which to date has not been utilized in desert ecology and ribosomal tag pyrosequencing 3 apply functional genomics to explore ecological traits in desert micro- organisms the genome of Modestobacter caceresii recently isolated from the extreme hyper-arid Yungay region of the Atacama Desert contains 110 genes that are associated with stress responses including those involved in heat and cold shock responses osmotic stress and carbon starvation and 4 develop the biotechnological potential of this huge reservoir of desert biosynthetic dark matteraccess to which has become greatly facilitated by genome and metagenome mining as evidenced by the discovery of new antibacterialanticancer ansamycins synthesized by a novel strain Streptomyces leeuwenhoekii isolated from a hyper-arid Atacama Desert soil.MethodsSample collection and research landscape.

As a first step in such an approach specifically to actinobacterial diversity in the Atacama Desert we have carried out community profiling based on 454 pyrosequencing.

Our choice of this particular platform in part was based on its high classification efficiency and evidence that deep pyrosequencing of 16S tags is well-suited for distin- guishing site specific similarities and differences among rare bacteria.The principle objectives of this study were to determine how diverse actinobacterial communities are in the Atacama Desert and how big a resource this presents for biotechnology exploitation and to dissect such diversity in terms of actinobacterial rare and previously undetected dark matter .

With the exception of the CHX1 value which appears to lie near the boundary between dominant and uniform community profiles all other Atacama Desert communities surveyed here show dominance see Taxonomic diversity below.Rank-abundance distributions.

The Atacama Desert Technical resources and the growing importance of novel microbial diversity.

Life at the hyperarid margin novel bacterial diversity in arid soils of the Atacama Desert Chile.

Extremophiles 19 171-181 doi2015.Casamayor E. O. Triado-Margarit X.  Castaneda C. Microbial biodiversity in saline shallow lakes of the Monegros Desert Spain.FEMS Microbiol Ecol 85 503-518 doi2013.Stach J. E.  Bull A. T. Estimating and comparing the diversity of marine actinobacteria.

Abiotic factors shape microbial diversity in Sonoran Desert soils.

Life sciences and space research 5 187-203 1966.Busarakam K. Novel actinobacterial diversity in arid Atacama Desert soils as a source of new drug leads PhD thesis Newcastle University 2014.Schafer J. Jackel U.  Kampfer P. Development of a new PCR primer system for selective amplification of Actinobacteria.

