The relative expression le-vels were defined as the ratio of the maximum expression level.Analysis of propazine and its metabolitesAfter soils sterilized and unsterilized were incubated with 10 mg kg-1 of propazine for 1 5 7 9 and 13 d at 25degC propazine withits metabolites in soil were detected at 1 5 7 9 and 13 d respectively.The extraction method of propazine and its metabolites in soil were established according to the method of with somemodification.

In addi- tion the highest expression of three genes was shown on day 7 which was just the beginning of the rapid propazine degradation A and .Tracking propazine metabolites and degradation pathwaysIn order to investigate the processes and pathways of propazine degradation protonated M  H of propazine and its metabolites in soil were characterized by high resolution MS analysis.

To figure out the mechanism of propazine biodegradation in soil we identified a special microbial community responding to propazine from soil which shows the particular de- gradation of propazine residues.

The objective of the study is to provide a better understanding of degradation capability of identified microbial community for propazine in soil and a way to minimize propazine residues in the soil.Materials and methodsPropazine 97.3 purity and ametryn 99.0 purity were pro- vided by Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Science China.

The spiked recovery of propazine in soil was shown in Table S2.The propazine metabolites in soil were measured by a triple TOFtm 5600 MS MS system AB SCIEX USA coupled to a UHPLC system Shimadzu Japan with a controller CBM20A double pump LC20ADXR an autosampler SIL20AXR and a column oven CTO20A.

The significant difference at p  0.05 among the means was calculated by one-way analysis of variance.ResultsPropazine degradation SMBN and SMBC in soilTo investigate the effect of soil microbes on the degradation of propazine propazine was detected in sterilized and unsterilized soils in time-dependent manner.

The full scan mass spectra of soil samples with propazine were used to analyze the potential propazine derived metabolites.

About 94 of the applied propazine was degraded within 11 days of incubation when soil was treated with 10 mg kg-1 propazine as the initial concentration.

Five degradation products hydroxyl- methylated- dimeric- propazine ammeline and ammelide were characterized by UPLC-MS2 revealing a biodegradation of propazine in soil.

A dynamic biodegradation study on propazine in the soil was conducted by tracking the propazine con- centration the soil enzyme activity composition of microbial com- munity and degrading genes.

