50e60 root hairsmm but the gir1-1 gir2-1 double mutant plants developed more than twice as many root hairs 130 root hairsmm and this elevated root hair frequency phenotype was comparable to that exhibited by the gl2-1 mutant 120 root hairsmm.

I. Interaction with the repressor GLABRA2 and regulation of root hair developmentRenhong Wu Vitaly CitovskyDepartment of Biochemistry and Cell Biology State University of New York Stony Brook NY 11794-5215 United Statesa r t i c l e i n f o Article historyReceived 5 May 2017Accepted 15 May 2017Available online 17 May 2017KeywordsRoot hair development GL2-Interacting proteins Arabidopsisa b s t r a c t Plants use specialized root outgrowths termed root hairs to enhance acquisition of nutrients and water help secure anchorage and facilitate interactions with soil microbiome.

15 root hairsmm vs. 60 root hairsmm D. The moderate expresser GIR1-OE3 plants produced 35 root hairsmm D suggesting correlation of the GIR1 effect with the extent of its over-expression.Based on the functional redundancy of GIR1 and GIR2 trans- genic expression of GIR1 should genetically complement the gir1-1 gir2-1 mutant to a near wild-type phenotype.

As the root matures and elongates root hairs emerge and also mature and we observed virtually no GUS reporter activity in this mature zone of the root Fig.

GIR1 is expressed in the meristematic and elongation zones of the root and GIR12 loss-of-function mutant gir1-1 gir2-1 develops increased root hair density whereas gain-of-function of GIR1 represses root hair development.Interestingly although both GIR1 and GIR2 interact and most likely function with GL2 this functionality is more narrowly tissue- specific than that of GL2 itself.

In Arabidopsis single-layered root epidermal cells differentiate into hair and non-hair cells based on the position-dependent cues epidermal cells termed H cells located between underlying cortical cells differentiate into root hair cells whereas epidermal cells termed N cells positioned directly over single cortical cells differentiate into non-hair cells .

One of the major regulators of this process is GLABRA2 GL2 a transcriptional repressor that functions to suppress root hair differentiation as well as to initiate leaf trichome development e. To date most of our knowledge about the GL2-mediated pathway for regulation of root hair development is derived mainly from the events that precede the actual involvement of GL2 and regulate its activity .

However the double mutant gir1-1 gir2- 1 plants exhibited excessive root hair formation comparable to that observed in the gl2-1 mutant whereas in the GIR1-OE1 and GIR1- OE3 plants root hair was sparse A.

These phenotypes were then quantified by measuring linear density of root hairs along the entire seedling root.

Scale bars 14 20 mm.confirmed the negative regulatory effect of GIR1 on root hair development C reducing the average linear density of root hair to approximately one quarter of that observed in the wild-type plants i.e.

