multiple mag peptides are recognized by circulating t and b lymphocytes in polyneuropathy and multiple sclerosis.

increased numbers of t cells recognizing multiple myelin basic protein epitopes in multiple sclerosis.

multiple cerebral gliomas in multiple sclerosis.

 department of neurology neuroimmunology university of regensburg regensburg germanyedited bybjorn tackenberg philipps university of marburggermanyreviewed byanne kathrin mausberg essen university hospital germanypavan bhargava johns hopkins school of medicineusacorrespondence robert weissert specialty section this article was submitted to multiple sclerosis and neuroimmunologya section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 22 january 2017accepted 08 march 2017published 23 march 2017citation weissert r 2017 adaptive immunity is the key to the understanding of autoimmune and paraneoplastic inflammatory central nervoussystem disorders.

8336.doi there are common aspects and mechanisms between different types of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis ms neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders nmosds and autoimmune encephalitis ae as well as paraneoplastic inflammatory disorders of the central nervous system.

in ms the target molecules are mainly myelin- and neuronaxon-derived proteins in nmosd mainly aquaporin-4 expressed on astrocytes and in ae various proteins that are expressed by neurons and axons.keywords t cell b cell major histocompatibility complex human leukocyte antigen multiple sclerosis neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders autoimmune encephalitis paraneoplastic diseaseintroductionvarious autoimmune and paraneoplastic disorders of the central nervous system cns share many immunological similarities.

the reasons why tolerance is broken in autoimmune diseases are multiple and can differ from paraneoplastic diseases .

there are also b cells which do not require t cell help in autoimmunity but these do not seem to be of major importance in cns autoimmunity and cns paraneoplastic diseases as far as one knows to date -.endogenous factorsendogenous factors that contribute to the induction of autoim- munity or paraneoplastic diseases are multiple.

low vitamin d levels as well as low sun light exposure have been shown to contribute to susceptibility to multiple sclerosis ms also independently of other factors -.

therefore different conformations of an antigen can be seen be the immune system in a neoantigenic fashion and lead to autoimmunity .specific diseases multiple sclerosisin ms the target of the autoimmune response which seems to be predominantly t cell driven is mainly directed against proteins of the myelin sheath which is produced by oligodendrocytes  .

a prototype is the anti-n-methyl- d-aspartate receptor nmda receptor encephalitis in which the nmda receptor is the target molecule of the immune responsetable 1  human diseases and autoantigens main cellular expression and cellular compartment of expression as well as involved immune responses as presently known.a astrocytes ae autoimmune encephalitis c cytosol cs cytoskeleton e endosome es extracellular space ga golgi apparatus l lysosome m mitochondria ms multiple sclerosis n neurons n nucleus nd not determined nmosd neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder o oligodendrocytes p peroxisome pm plasma membrane u ubiquitous v vacuoles  positive findings - negative findings.it has been shown that antibodies are most important in this type of diseases and that these antibodies can lead to altera- tion of cellular function with consequences on behavior   or tissue destruction by complement .

the pivotal role of the adap- tive immunity in autoimmune and paraneoplastic diseases of the cns allows directed immune interventions to modulate t and b cell responses.author contributionsrw outlined the subject of the review searched for analyzed and interpreted the literature wrote the manuscript and agreed to be accountable for all aspects of the work.referencesriedhammer c weissert r. antigen presentation autoantigens and immune regulation in multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune diseases.

clin rev allerg immunol 2012 422135-44. doweissert r. the immune pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis.

curr opin immunol 2009 216626-33. doclaes n fraussen j stinissen p hupperts r somers v. b cells are multi- functional players in multiple sclerosis pathogenesis insights from thera- peutic interventions.

b cells in multiple sclerosis connecting the dots.

