root colonization and rhizosphere competence isthus a critical prerequisite for the successful use of pgprs as biocontrol and plant growth-promoting agents .the rhizosphere is rich in nutrients due to the accumula- tion of plant exudates containing amino acids and sugars that provides a rich source of energy and nutrients for col- onizing bacteria this forces the bacterial community to colonize the rhizoplane and rhizosphere .

to date members of the genus bacillus are preferred for preparing bioformulations with benefi- cial impact on plant growth and health especiallyrepresentatives of the b. subtilis species complex are known for their beneficial action on plants especially b. amyloliquefaciens and b. subtilis these bacilli stimulate plant growth 1 directly by increasing nutri- ents through the production of phytohormones sidero- phores organic acids involved in p-solubilisation andor fixation of nitrogen  and 2 indirectly by producing antagonistic substances or by inducing the plant resist- ance against pathogens here we found that plant root-colonizing b. subtilis subsp.

plant growth promotion suppression of plant diseases and rhizosphere competence colonization and survival on plant roots by pgpr especially bacilli have been considered as critical requisites for the develop- ment of commercial products .

at 14 days after sowing plant fresh weight and the amount of pts-394 on the root surface were mea- sured as previously described .the colonization and plant growth promotion of pts-394 in potsthe dynamic colonization of pts-394 on the tomato rhizoplane and its plant growth-promoting ability were investigated by pot experiments and the gfp-labeled strain pts-394g was used for colonization analysis.

otus operational taxonomic units pca principal component analysis pgpr plant growth promoting rhizobacteria tetra tetra-nucleotide signatures ypgmedium yeast peptone glucose mediumacknowledgmentsauthors wish to thank all the staff of the rice disease and biocontrol of plant disease laboratory institute of plant protection jiangsu academy of agricultural sciences.fundingthis work was supported by jiangsu academy of agricultural innovation funds cx 15 1044 the national natural science foundation of china nsfc 31201556 and the natural science foundation of jiangsu province bk2012373.availability of data and materialsthe majority of the data is included in the manuscript and additional files.

the colonizing capability of pgpr strains has been investigated using gfp labeling and transposon-mediated random mutagenesis ap- proaches in pseudomonas and bacillus strains in particular 0. bacterial traits such as chemotaxis motility attach- ment growth and stress resistance all appear to contribute to the colonization competence of pgprs rhizosphere competence is essentially a process of niche competition between pgprs and other microbes present in the vicinity of plant roots in which resource partition- correspondence 1institute of plant protection jiangsu academy of agricultural sciences nanjing jiangsu province 210014 chinafull list of author information is available at the end of the articleing competitive exclusion and co-existence can all play a part.

use of plant growth- promoting bacteria for biocontrol of plant diseases principles mechanisms of action and future prospects.

2013641807-38.fan b chen xh budiharjo a bleiss w vater j borriss r. efficient colonization of plant roots by the plant growth promoting bacterium bacillus amyloliquefaciens fzb42 engineered to express green fluorescent protein.

at 30 days after treatment with pts-394 the fresh weight of the root and the plant height were measured in order to evaluate the growth- promoting effect of pts-394.rhizosphere soil collection and dna extractionduring the pot experiment described above rhizosphere soil from untreated and pts-394-treated pot-grown to- mato plants was collected from three plants at 1 3 7 9 and 14 days after treatment.

.impact of pts-394 on bacterial members of the rhizosphere microbiotadetermination of the composition of the bacterial com- munity in vicinity of plant roots was performed by meta- genome sequencing see methods.

the relativeabundance and variation in the composition of these 19 groups is presented in additional file figure s1.impact of pts-394 on eukaryotic members of the rhizosphere microbiotapresence of eukaryotic groups in vicinity of plant roots was determined by using 18s rrna sequences in a simi- lar way as described for bacteria.

similarly independent of its mode of applica- tion applying b. amyloliquefaciens bnm122 to soy bean plants did not shift the composition of rhizosphere bacter- ial community in a measurable extent  suggesting that inoculation of crops with different representatives of the genus bacillus has no durable impact on the bacteria living in vicinity of plant roots.

the suppressing effect of pts-394 on plant pathogen fusarium oxysporum in the rhizosphere is a typical example additional file figure s3.

200040143-56.nihorimbere v cawoy h seyer a brunelle a thonart p ongena m. impact of rhizosphere factors on cyclic lipopeptide signature from the plant beneficial strain b acillus amyloliquefaciens s499.

these results are in accordance to those found for the rhizosphere bacteriome and indicate that i pts-394 had a transient influence on composition of the eukaryotic members of the rhizosphere microbiome but ii the community recovered to its original state 14 days after treatment.

