however the exact mechanisms explaining the obesity-cancer link are not elucidated.this review aims to discuss 1 the recent key mechanisms and actors underlying the link between adipose tissue metab- olism and cancer and 2 the unequivocal common mecha- nisms connecting gut microbes to adipose tissue metabolism and eventually cancer development.adipose tissue metabolism and fat storageadipose tissue is a complex organ which is composed of dif- ferent cell types.

finally trans- ferring the gut microbiota from obese mice into germ-free mice reproduces the phenotype of fat mass accumulation and altered adipose tissue metabolism strongly suggesting a direct link between the presence of specific microbes in the gut and the development of adipose tissue  .on top of these physiological processes numerous evi- dence suggests that gut microbes contribute to the onset of low-grade inflammation and an altered regulation of lipogen- esis and adipogenesis processes i.e.

briefly tams support tumor progression by growth factors and ros production increased angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis and tissue infiltration and by creating an immunosuppressive environment.gut microbes regulate adipose tissue metabolism a link with cancerall the processes regulating adipose tissue metabolism and described in the first part of this review have also been linked with gut microbiota activity.

this review highlights the different mechanisms linking the gut microbiota with adipose tissue metabolism and how bioactive lipids and adipose tissue metabolism may play an important role on adipogenesis and gut barrier function.cani pd amar j iglesias ma poggi m knauf c bastelica d et al.

white adipose tissue in transgenic and dietary obese mice indeed show re- duction in the interstitial partial oxygen pressure and similar observations were made between adipose tissue of obese and lean humans .fat cells and cancerbesides the adipose tissue other adipocyte-rich organs are suggested to create microenvironments that are conducive for tumorigenesis and metastatic progression .

the adipose tissue metabolism is profoundly affected during obesity and metabolic disorders where the different cells composing this tissue are secreting cytokines adipokines and lipid mediators that are triggering key metabolic processes devoted not only to reverse hypoxia but also to expand the adipose tissue for further fatty acid storage.

this review aims to discuss the recent key mechanisms and actors underlying the link between adipose tissue metabolism and cancer and the unequivocal common mechanisms connecting gut mi- crobes to adipose tissue and eventually cancer development.

this key mechanism explains how gut microbes and eventually gut barrier function interfere with numerous factors regulating fat mass development.among the metabolic systems involved in the regulation of this gut barrier and adipogenesis it has been shown that endocannabinoids ecbs plays a major role for review .

importantly in- sufficient angiogenesis blocks adipose tissue accumulation thereby resulting in relative hypoxia and contributes to the production of many factors from both adipocytes and other cells composing the adipose tissue  fig.

in the next part of this review we will describe how the adipose tissue and its specific product may directly contribute to cancer development.the adipose tissue microenvironment favors tumor initiation and progressionadipocytes indeed represent a significant source of lipids cytokines and adipokines and their presence in the tumor microenvironment can affect cell signaling and metabolism .

hypoxia in adipose tissue a basis for the dysregulation of tissue function in obesity br j nutr.

httpsdoi.org10.1007s40139-017-0154-6adipose tissue metabolism and cancer progression novel insights from gut microbiotabenedicte f. jordan1  florian gourgue12  patrice d. cani 2published online 24 october 2017 the authors 2017. this article is an open access publicationabstractpurpose of review obesity is strongly associated with the development of several types of cancers.

it is indeed established that gut bacteria participate not only to shape our immunity but also control the regulation of glucose energy and adipose tissue metabolism via several mechanisms including inflammation  .

1 hypothetical working models of interactions between adipose tissue metabolism gut microbiota and cancer progression.

it has also been demonstrated that the production of apelin by the adipose tissue is directly regulated by both lps coming from the gut and ecbs .

