relevant to vaccine development the role of the human microbiome in inducing beneficial systemic and mucosal immune responses has become increasingly evident with probiotics posited to have a potential role as novel vaccine adjuvants  figure .figure 2. intestinal microbiome dysbiosis compromises the effectiveness of vaccine antigens secondary to systemic consequences of a chronic inflammation of the intestinal tract.

however no effect was reported for lactococcus lactis or lgg on the numbers of vaccine specific iga igg and igm antibody secreting cells 7-days post-vaccination .table 2. clinical studies investigating the effects of probiotics on vaccine responses in adults.summary of probiotic adjuvant effects to vaccinesprobioticsmethodvaccine strainbiological effects.

a plausible posit is that probiotics can improve vaccine responses by encouraging the intestinal microbiome to restore eubiosis that restores intestinal immunological homeostasis.

who reported a significant increase in serum antibody responses to antigens administered orally and systemically in mice treated with probiotics .figure 1. vaccine epithelial barrier function and intestinal homeostasis.

vaccine 2010 28 2577-2579.  kukkonen k. nieminen t. poussa t. savilahti e. kuitunen m. effect of probiotics on vaccine antibody responses in infancy--a randomized placebo-controlled double-blind trial.

the intestinal bacteria whether pathogenic or commensal interact with the intestinal mucosal lymphoid system through prrs that are expressed on specialized intestinal epithelial m cells and dendritic cells.

probiotics are reported to improve intestinal microbial profiles by balancing and promoting homeostasis in the microbial community following perturbing events that can trigger intestinal microbial dysbiosis as well as intestinal epithelial cell dysbiosis a gut barrier abnormality such as the administration of antibiotic therapy .

viral-specific iga antibodies observed in 2-5-year-old infants that were administered bifidobacterium breve strain bbg-01 for 4-weeks in response to oral cholera vaccine .table 1. clinical studies investigating the effects of probiotics on vaccine responses in children.summary of probiotic adjuvant effects to vaccinesprobioticsmethodvaccine strainbiological effectincrease in rotavirus-specific igml.

acidophilus atcc4356parenteral tetanus vaccineoral cholera vaccineantigen in probiotic group  early life effect first 6-months improved immunogenicitysignificantly lower responders and higher serum-lps specific iga in probiotic group and no difference in the vibriocidal antibodies similar immunogenicity responses possible effect on intestinal microbiomeno difference in vaccine specific igg antibody titres.

moreover a similar effect was observed for the tetanus antigen but there was no such effect observed for the probiotic group on haemophilus influenza type b vaccination.in response to hepatitis b vaccination in allergy-prone infants formula-fed supplemented with bifidobacterium longum bl999 and lactobacillus rhamnosus lpr or a control formula without probiotics in the first 6-months of life in new-borns there was no reported significant trend for the probiotic formulation to increase hepatitis b virus surface antibody responses in the infants that received hepatitis b hexavalent diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis combination vaccine .

furthermore cd4 t cells activation are compulsory for most antibody responses while antibodies exert significant influences on t cell responses to intracellular pathogens .the intestines of humans is the anatomical site for the most complex and extensive collection of microscopic entities that includes bacteria archaea microbial eukaryotes and viruses collectively termed as the microbiome .

2.8 108 for 26-weekmmrv vaccinehep b vaccine at 1-month anddtpahepb vaccine at 6-monthsreached protective igg antibody titres in 3 month post-vaccination period in probiotic group improved immunogenicitygroup treated with probiotics showed a trend towards increased antihbsag in infants given probiotic for six months early life effect first 6-months improved immunogenicitytable 1. cont.summary of probiotic adjuvant effects to vaccinesprobioticsmethodvaccine strainbiological effect5 x 109 cfu5 x 109 cful.

intestinal homeostasis supports the vaccine-induced production of antigen-specific antibodies via the presentation of vaccine antigen by migrating dendritic cells to b cells in the mucosa associated lymphoid tissue.

probiotics can mediate immunological effects directly through their interaction with intestinal immune cells and epithelial cells or indirectly through modulation of theintestinal microbiome .

0.8 g galacto-oligosaccharides newborns for first 24-weekdtwp vaccinehib conjugatehigher frequency of hib-specific igg antibody response and a trend for higher hib-specific igg gmt  improved immunogenicity1 dtp  diphtheria pertussis and tetanus hib  haemophilus influenza type b dtap  diphtheria pertussis and tetanus pcv7  pneumococcal conjugate vaccine mmrv  measles mumps rubella varicella hepb  hepatitis b dtpa  diphtheria pertussis and tetanus dtwp  diphtheria pertussis and tetanus l.  lactobacillus b.  bifidobacterium p.  propionibacterium ascs  antibody secreting cells ig  immunoglobulin cfu  colony forming units tt  tetanus toxoid q.d.

