the admitting diagnoses to the icu included trauma n 6 upper gastrointestinal bleeding n 1 acute myocardial infarction n 1 abdominal mass n 1 and a subdural hematoma n 1. eight of the 10 patients left the icu before day 7. three of the participants received antibiotics betweenfigure 1. distribution of fungal microbiome in collected samples.

324 278-282a the authors 2016 reprints and permission richard r. watkins md ms12 pranab k. mukherjee phd3 jyotsna chandra phd3 mauricio a. retuerto bs4 chrissy guidry md5 nairmeen haller phd6 charudutt paranjape md5 and mahmoud a. ghannoum phd7abstracta prospective exploratory study was conducted to characterize the oral mycobiome at baseline and determine whether changes occur after admission to the intensive care unit icu.

we found that icu admission is associated with alterations in the oral mycobiome including an overall increase in candida albicans.keywordsmycobiome critical care candida albicanshealth care-associated infections hais pose a major risk for hospitalized patients including those admitted to intensive care units icus.

for example the yeast pichia decreases in the mouth of hiv-infected individuals with a cor- responding increase in candida colonization suggesting an antagonistic relationship between these 2 fungi.8patients are routinely admitted to the icu with a wide range of symptoms and diagnoses.9 accordingly these patients vary in their overall health status including the condition of their oral cavity.

the length of patient stay in the icu depends on a number of factors such as the severity and nature of the acute illness responsible for the admission age underlying medical1 department of internal medicine northeast ohio medical university rootstown oh usa2 division of infectious diseases akron general medical center akron ohusa3 department of dermatology center for medical mycology university hospitals case medical center case western reserve university cleveland oh usa4 oharaactg mycology unit department of dermatology case westernreserve university cleveland oh usa5 department of surgery akron general medical center akron oh usa6 department of research akron general medical center akron oh usa 7 department of dermatology center for medical microbiology case western reserve university school of medicine university hospitals case medical center cleveland oh usareceived october 16 2015 and in revised form november 30 2015.accepted for publication december 30 2015.corresponding authorrichard r. watkins division of infectious diseases akron general medical center 224 w. exchange st. suite 290 akron oh 44302 usa.email conditions including those that cause immunosuppression and the treatment administered by the health care team eg anti- biotics.

the impact of care in the icu on the oral mycobiome is currently unknown.

the aim of this study was to characterize the changes that occur in the oral mycobiome by comparing the fungal community on admission to the icu with that at dis- charge from the icu.methodswritten informed consent was obtained from all study partici- pants.

the participants were recruited according to a protocol 12039 approved by the institutional research review board at akron general medical center.oral rinse samples were obtained from 10 participants who were admitted to the icu at akron general medical center between february 5 2013 and january 16 2014. the partici- pants were all from the akron area and on standard western diets.

inclusion criteria were 18 years of age nothing by mouth on day 1 exception for oral medicines ability to provide consent or could get consent from an authorized representative and directly admitted to the icu.

a standardized data collection sheet was used to record clinical parameters including age sex admitting diagnosis underlying medical conditions medications interventions that could change the oral flora eg surgeries or procedures duration of icu stay and hospital stay diet and if the patient developeda nosocomial infection during his or her hospital stay.oral rinse has been previously used to detect the presence of oral fungi.10 oral samples were collected at least 1 hour after a meal at approximately the same time 9-11 am to avoid con- tamination of samples with extraneous components and to stan- dardize the impact of variation in salivary flow rates.6 the samples were obtained by having the participants swirl with 15 ml of a phosphate-buffered saline wash solution in their mouth for 1 minute and then expectorate the fluid into a 50-ml centrifuge tube.

this process was repeated on days 4 and 7 if applicable of the icu stay.

if a patient moved out of the icu after day 1 their subsequent locations in the hospital eg gen- eral medical ward were recorded and oral rinse samples were obtained.

a frequency of different fungal species at days 0 and 2. b principal cluster analysis pca showing lack of clustering in analyzed samples.days 1 and 7. most had comorbid medical conditions and received oral medications during their hospital course.upon entering the icu 23 fungal species were observed compared to 13 at day 7 with a mean a diversity index ofand 1.9 respectively figure 1a.

between admission to the icu and day 7 there was a 2-fold increase in c albicans figure 2b.

only 3 of the 10 parti- cipants received antibiotics during their hospital stay and their oral flora did not differ significantly at baseline and underwent similar changes compared to the other 7 parti- cipants p 14 .24.discussionthe results of our analysis show icu admission causes signif- icant changes in the oral mycobiome.

