aerobic granular sludge inoculated microbial fuel cells for enhanced epoxy reactive diluent wastewater treatmentkai cheng  jingping hu  huijie hou bingchuan liu qin chen keliang pan wenhong pu jiakuan yang xu wu changzhu yang college of environmental science and engineering huazhong university of science and technology luoyu road 1037 wuhan 430074 pr chinah i g h l i g h t s aerobic granular sludge was incorporated into mfcs to form a hybrid system.ags-mfcs shortened the startup time from 13 d to 7 d compared to mfcs without ags.superior performance for epoxy reactive diluent wastewater treatment was achieved.the high efficiency is possibly due to the synergic effect of both mfc and ags.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c t a r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 22 october 2016received in revised form 30 december 2016 accepted 31 december 2016available online 4 january 2017keywordsaerobic granular sludge microbial fuel cells recalcitrant organic pollutants biodegradationindustrial wastewatera b s t r a c t microbial consortiums aggregated on the anode surface of microbial fuel cells mfcs are critical factors for electricity generation as well as biodegradation efficiencies of organic compounds.

power genera- tion behaviors of both types of mfcs demonstrated that the addi- tion of erd wastewater showed obvious impact on bacterial activities while the ags-inoculated mfcs appeared to be affected to a milder extent.wastewater treatment efficiencycod removal was greatly enhanced with ags inoculated mfcs when erd was used as the substrate.

a erd wastewater and b synthesized waster 1 gl sodium acetate.scheme 1. proposed mechanisms of rapid ags-mfc startup by facilitating biofilm formation as well as synergetic biodegradation of toxins by mfc biofilm anode with ags granules during erd wastewater treatment 1 ags adsorbs a certain amount of toxins in the solution forming a protective layer to prohibit the direct attack of toxins towards the biofilm anode 2 ags degrades toxins into more biodegradable components that could penetrate the ags layer to the biofilm surface 3 bioelectricity generation by electrogenic biofilm anode converting carbon source to electrons.microorganisms can be defined in terms of external and internal bioavailability.

what's more the microbial consortia were more functionally related along the car- bon digestion chain which would benefit the microbial growthsimilar voltage outputs were obtained by both types of mfcs at their stable stages with 405 - 10 mv and 404 - 16 mv for ags- mfcs and dw-mfcs respectively when sodium acetate was used as substrate b. however distinguished differences on volt- age outputs were observed when erd wastewater was added into both types of mfcs.

when the mixture of erd wastewater and synthesized wastewater sodium acetate was used as the influent sodium acetate facili- tated the wastewater treatment by serving as carbon source of microorganisms as well as co-metabolism reagent between elec- trogenic biofilm and ags granules.here in this research adding sodium acetate as the co-substratefor erd wastewater treatment didn't affect the effluent cod in a dramatic way for ags-mfcs while a slight overall increase of efflu- ent cod was noticed for dw-mfcs with less sodium acetate lower effluent cod with 10-50 erd vs. higher effluent cod with 50- 100 erd b showing that a higher sodium acetate concen- tration led to a better final water quality in terms of cod when domestic wastewater was used as the inoculum.

no obvious differences on maximum power densities were observed when sodium acetate was used as the substrate with 408 - 26 mwm2 and 404 - 4 mwm2 for ags-mfcs and dw- mfcs respectively a. power densities of both types of mfcs were reduced when erd was used as the substrate with a 14 decrease for ags-mfcs and 29 decrease for dw-mfcs due to the toxicity of erd compounds a. ags-mfcs showed maximum power densities of 347 - 14 mwm2 whichk.

during the start-up ags inoculated mfcs ags-mfcs were fed with 28 ml medium solution while mfcs without ags were fed with 14 ml medium and 14 ml domestic municipal wastewater dw-mfcs from tangxun lake municipal wastewater treatment plant in wuhan china.

ags-mfcs didn't show dra- matic advantages on sodium acetate combustion compared to dw- mfcs however superior advantages on erd wastewater treatment were demonstrated due to the combination of ags's high toxicity tolerance its optimized microbial population on biofilm and mfc anode providing readily available electron acceptor.

previous study showed that it took over 100 d in forming a microbial system that could degrade sulphamethoxazole to 3-amino-5-methylisoxazole due to the direct inhibition of the antibiotics on microbial activity   and still the anode biofilm may not be able to compete with the dense and highly functionally packed ags granules when exposed to shock toxic contaminants.ags-mfcs also demonstrated superior power generation capa- bilities when erd was used as substrate compared to dw-mfcs.

ags holding layers of functional microbial communities that work synergistically during carbon source digestion is similar to domestic wastewater in the way of providing abundant microbial sources for mfcs.

for erd wastewater treatment different proportions of erd wastewater was mixed with 1 gl sodium acetate synthetic wastewater to achieve erd concentrations from 10 to 100 and added into both types of mfc sequentially.the influent sodium acetate in startup period was changed whenever the voltage output dropped below 50 mv.

however sharp deterioration of voltage outputs were noticed in dw-mfcs with continuous increase of erd concentra- tions in the influent c. voltage decreased from around 417 mv to 204 mv when erd concentration was increased from 0 to 80 a 51.1 drop and the variance of the 3 replicates of the dw-mfcs also became large 2.8 vs. 13.6 with influent erd of 10 and 80 respectively.

when changing the substrate from sodium acetate to erd ags-mfcs kept the same resistance 193 x with sodium acetate vs. 194 x with erd how- ever dw-mfcs showed a substantial increase of the internal ohmic resistance 188 x with sodium acetate vs. 235 x with erd which might be another reason leading to the deterioration of the power generation in the dw-mfc systems.

no obvious voltage drop was noticed with 10 erd addition for both ags-mfcs and dw-mfcs showing a consid- erable toxicity tolerance of both mfcs at lower erd wastewater levels.

2. a startup of both dw-mfcs and ags-mfcs b stable power generation of ags-mfcs using 1 gl sodium acetate as carbon source c voltage generation of dw- mfcs with increased concentrations from 10 to 100 of erd wastewater mixed with 1 gl sodium acetate d voltage generation of ags-mfcs with increased concentrations from 10 to 100 of erd wastewater mixed with 1 gl sodium acetate.fig.

