in av the transition of the healthy lactobacillus-dominated microflora to vaginal dysbiosis is accompanied by symptoms of inflammation introital and vaginal redness stinging and burning sensations the presence of sticky yellow vaginal discharge and dyspareunia .

however wet mount microscopy of smears of women with div also show increased numbers of parabasal cells as is the case in av indicative of insufficient estrogen impregnation of the vaginal mucosa even in the presence of high estrogen serum levels.while most studies of vaginal acidification have focused on the role of lactobacilli host epithelial cells may significantlycontribute to vaginal acidification as well .

reported that micro- scopic and culture findings of vaginal infections such as the presence of candida g. vaginalis or trichomonas in the absence of lactobacilli and heavy growth of aerobic vaginitis- associated bacteria such as e. coli klebsiella s. aureus and enterococci were present in vaginal secretions in 14 of 2264 of patients with high grade sil hsil versus 2974 39 of patients with lsil and 23 with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance ascus and assumed a causative role for bacterial vaginal infection in the develop- ment of hsil .

also other clinical studies re- ported good clinical efficacy of dqc in treatment of aerobic bacterial vaginal infections .in ugandan women similar satisfactory improvement in the vaginal microflora notably av was maintained for up to 1 month after a 6-day treatment course with vaginal rifaximin a non-absorbable broad spectrum antibiotic and dqc .a randomized open-label cohort study of treatment with nifuratel 500 mg intravaginally for 10 days showed goodfig.

it is characterized by abnormal dysbiotic vaginal microflora containing aerobic enteric bacteria variable levels of vaginal inflammation and deficient epithelial maturation.

this balance can transform into a disturbed state named 'abnormal vaginal microflora' avf or 'dysbiosis' resulting in conditions such as bacterial vaginosis aerobic vaginitis or vaginal candidiasis .the microflora in av is composed of commensal aerobic microorganisms of intestinal origin .

symptoms can be present for a long period of time and fluctuate in terms of severity.upon speculum examination the vaginal mucosa and the vestibule is variably red and inflamed and in case of severe av ecchymotic bleeding points and erosions can be encountered.severe av is indistinguishable from desquamative inflam- matory vaginitis  and both are usually chronic conditions characterized by severe vaginal enantema and purulent discharge.

compared with the normal vaginal microflora these aerobes increased by three-to fivefold and were associated with inflamed vaginal mucosa and with evidence of local cytokine-mediated inflammation .

however although this method amongst others enables investigating the composition of the vaginal microbiome it is not developed as a diagnostic tool.despite the evidence of low vaginal estrogen suggested by the presence of parabasal or immature epithelial cells determination of its serum levels is not clinically relevant .

how- ever other mechanisms may also be involved as outlined below.indeed besides competitive exclusion through adherence to vaginal epithelial cells two other general strategies have been proposed to explain how lactobacilli inhibit growth of other microorganisms in the vaginal niche in premenopausal women 1 competition for nutrients and 2 production of antimicrobials such as bacteriocins hydrogen peroxide h2o2 and lactic acid .

production of h2o2 on the other hand may select for lactobacilli strains harboring defective prophages  rendering these strains more resis- tant to cell lysis and becoming more stable thereby reducing the likelihood of transition to the abnormal vaginal micro- biome state.the concentration of vaginal interleukin il-1b is related to the lactobacillus grade .

although sialidase activity is considered a marker for bv it is also produced by at least some av-associated species such as s. agalactiae.the role of local estrogen levelsa vaginal smear of normal vaginal fluid contains only mature epithelial cells.

thus it is likely that host epithelial cells in concert with lactic-acid-producing bacteria contribute to vaginal acidification and create an environment that is more selective for lactic acid bacteria lactobacilli streptococci and yeasts.another important issue involved in the vaginal defense system is the kallikrein klk-related peptidase.

it is however difficult to compare these data becausethe authors relied on nugent scoring of gram stains.treatment of avtreatment of av may include antibacterial antiseptic and antibiotic hormonal non-steroidal anti-inflammatory andor probiotic therapy and can be prescribed as local or systemic treatment see .antiseptic therapytwo studies showed that vaginal treatment with dequalinium chloride dqc resulted in clear reduction of the clinical symptoms of av reduction in the presence of relevant facultative pathogenic microorganisms in vaginal cultures and was well tolerated.

one to 2 days following completion of treat- ment the authors found a stronger reduction in vaginal leu- cocytes stronger reduction in isolation of enterobacteriaceae 97 vs. 76 and less vaginal mucosa burning and itching in the group treated with kanamycin compared to the meclocycline-treated group .

