we present details on the assays that provided the greatest peak separation for snps found on each branch table 2. of particular interest to this study was the phylogenetic placement of isolates from omani livestock all 34 of these omani isolates are part of the clade on the assay branch 2 figure 1. the finding that omani livestock samples all came from a distinct branch in the b. melitensis phylogeny indicates that these animals all contain relatively closely related isolates from a single lineage.snp analyses indicate that all of our b. melitensis isolates from omani camels belong to a distinct clade that also contains isolates originating in africa nigeria chad tanzania.

twenty-hour individual broth cultures 2 x 109ml were pelleted by centrifugation 7500 rpm for 10 min and genomic dna was extracted and purified using qiagen dneasy blood and tissue kits hilden germany following the manufacturer's protocol for gram-negative bacteria.table 1  characteristics of 27 brucella melitensis isolates collected from livestock in dhofar governorate oman.biotyping indicated that all 27 samples were biovar 1. seven additional b. melitensis isolates from blood samples from goats were also collected from saham in the al batinah north governorate in 2010 but were not biotyped.a sub-set of mlva profiles derived from geographically diverse b. melitensis isolates causing human infection was generated at the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention cdc and used in the analysis to understand the distribution of b. melitensis genotypes in the region.

2016. thus snp analysis indicates that omani livestock isolates are part of a group of b. melitensis that is related to isolates from africa and distantly related to most other isolates from the middle east.

interestingly the african clade isolates are more closely related to isolates from the americas clade than the e. mediterranean clade in this rooted tree a pattern not seen in mlva gyuranecz et al.

2017.using mlva genotyping the vntr diversity we observed in these 15 camel isolates divide into 3-6 distinct lineages depending on clustering criteria figure 2. use of all 15 mlva loci gave similar overall patterns data not shown.all camel isolates from oman except for one highly similar to a human isolate from qatar q7 are closely related to samples from human patients from egypt typically differing from each other by only 1-3 vntr mutations indicating that highly related strains circulating across the region in both livestock and humans.

our mlva results also support the snp analyses that the omani camel isolates have greatest similarity to b. melitensis isolates from north africa.

omani camel isolates are related to isolates originating from humans in egypt sometimes separated by only one vntr repeat.

the two snp assays specific for branch 2 can quickly identify isolates that are part of this unique african lineage allowing for a determination of the spread of this clade.we emphasize that the african clade is a phylogenetic assignment and not a geographic one and that not all isolates from africa will be a part of this clade.

2006 b. melitensis isolates from the united arab emirates from camels cattle and a goat had genotypes from the e. mediterranean clade but also contained isolates from four camels and a gazelle from the african clade gyuranecz et al.

 1 2 faith m. walker 2  brandy d. rannals 2  3 4  kevin p. drees 1 2  rebekah v. tiller 5  alex r. hoffmaster 5  4  paul keim 2 and 31 department of molecular cellular and biomedical sciences university of new hampshire durham nh united states2 pathogen and microbiome institute northern arizona university flagstaff az united states 3 department of clinical medicine and surgery university of agriculture faisalabad pakistan 4 animal health research center ministry of agriculture and fisheries muscat oman 5 national center for emerging and zoonotic infectious diseases centers for disease control atlanta ga united statesedited byaxel cloeckaert institut national de la recherche agronomique inra francereviewed bythomas a. ficht texas am university college stationunited states menachem banaikimron veterinary institute israelcorrespondence jeffrey t. foster muhammad saqib specialty sectionthis article was submitted toinfectious diseases a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 22 june 2017accepted 29 december 2017published 15 january 2018citation foster jt walker fm rannals bd hussain mh drees kp tiller rv hoffmaster ar al-rawahi a keim p and saqib m 2018 african lineage brucella melitensis isolates fromomani livestock.

we genotyped b. melitensis isolates from omani camels using whole genome snp assays and vntrs to provide context for regional brucellosis cases.

this lineage is genetically distinct from most genotypes from the arabian peninsula and from isolates from much of the rest of the middle east.

in analyses of genotypes from throughout the region omani isolates were genetically most closely related to strains from brucellosis cases in humans and livestock in north africa.

2011. to determine the causative species bacterial culturing from milk blood or tissues of infected animals is performed to recover bacterial isolates.

tissues or bodily fluids were collected and isolates of b. melitensis were recovered from camels goats sheep and cattle in the dhofar governorate of oman an area with the highest brucellosis prevalence in the country el tahir and nair 2011. in 1996 a brucellosis control program that implemented both vaccination and culling of infected animals was initiated in the dhofar region.

