Lin A. L. Pulliam D. A. Deepa S. S. Halloran J. J. Hussong S. A. Burbank R. R. et al.

Rao A. V. Bested A. C. Beaulne T. M. Katzman M. A. Iorio C. Berardi J. M. et al.

Sha W. da Costa K. A. Fischer L. M. Milburn M. V. Lawton K. A. Berger A. et al.

Emerging evidence shows that reduced brain metabolic and vascular functions occur decades before the onset of cognitive impairments and these reductions are highly associated with low-grade chronic inflammation developed in the brain over time.

Future studies conducting comprehensive and integrative characterization of brain aging including crosstalk with peripheral systems and factors will be necessary to define the mechanisms underlying the shift from normal aging to pathological processes in the etiology of AD.Keywords aging MRI brain metabolism neurovascular function gut microbiome cognition anxiety Alzheimer's diseaseINTRODUCTIONAdvancing age increases the risk factor for developing dementia with imaging and biomarker data suggesting that the pathophysiological processes of Alzheimer's disease AD begin more than a decade prior to the diagnosis of dementia      .

Failure to maintain brain metabolism causes dysfunctional cellular energy status and nucleotide biosynthesis    leading to cognitive impairment and brain volume atrophy  .

To achieve this we used metabolomics for brain metabolite assessment 16s ribosomal RNA rRNA gene amplicon sequencing to analyze the gut microbiome neuroimaging to examine brain vascular functions and behavioral testing to determine memory and anxiety.

We hypothesized that age-related deleterious changes would be exhibited in the brain and gut effecting brain metabolic vascular and cognitive functions which may increase the risk for developing AD.MATERIALS AND METHODSAnimalsYoung 5-6 months and old 18-20 months male C57BL6N mice were acquired from the National Institute of Aging Colony.

Data are mean - SEM.significantly increased iNOS levels in the brain of old mice compared to that of young mice  17 increase p  0.02.We found that two of the brain metabolites related to gut microbiota were also significantly different between young and old cohorts.

To promote healthy aging and prevent AD it will thus be critical to manage low-grade chronic proinflammation over time.In future studies it is important to determine mechanisms linking the brain and gut in the context of brain aging including pathways involved in SCFAs neurotransmitters vagus nerve activity and immune system function.

