The composition alpha diversity of the microbiome at the three ages demonstrated unique OTUs at each age but generally did not distinguish one age-related community from another Figure 1C.The OTUs identified in the 16S survey were organised into categories based on the observed abundance across the ages Figure 1D further described in Supplementary Materials.

Based on Spearman correlations these two OTUs were also some of the most connected OTUs based on their positive correlation with other OTUs across the ages Figure 2B Supplementary Figure 1.

The tabulated entries for the entire list of statistically different MFC's areavailable in the Supplementary Materials Supplemen- tary Materials S2.xlsx.To help focus the analysis the MFCs were put into the same 18 categories previously used for the OTUs in Figure 1 Figure 4B 4C and Figure 1D.

Abbreviations SU - Statistically Up SD - Statistically Down Cat - Category 8M - 8 months 18M - 18 months and 24M - 24 months.Given the possible role of microbes in altering lipid and inflammatory status we looked at the correlations of the lipid species with the microbial members OTUs - Figure 6D MFC's - Supplementary Figure 5 and serum protein levels Figure 6E.

To investigate the potential associations between the microbiome and the host we analysed the correlations details in materials and methods between the physiological measurements and the OTUs significantly correlated with age Figure 3B.

Using aged Wistar rats of ages 8 18 and 24 months subsequently referred to as 8M for adult 18M for adult-pre-sarcopenic and 24M for adult- sarcopenic respectively similar framework as our previous work 20 we determined the ecological states of the microbiome at the various ages identified potential metabolic functions of these states and integrated this analysis with the biochemical and physiological phenotypes Figure 1A.Gut microbial diversity in aged ratsThe gut microbiome is a complex ecosystem that reflects the contribution of multiple environmental such as diet drugs and pathogens and host-related immunity factors.

Abbreviations SU - Statistically Up SD - Statistically Down Cat - Category 8M - 8 months 18M - 18 months and 24M - 24 months.We considered the following key observations 1 analysis of the aging microbiome identified a diet-related ecology specifically associated with the transition at 18M to the sarcopenic phenotype 2 the OTUs characterized at the 18M correlated with observed Vitamin B12 and folate levels and 3 the MFC analysis identified candidate molecular mechanisms including pathogenesisand dietary metabolic function associated with the sarcopenic phenotype.

OTU 0914 Lactonifactor the only OTU found in category 9 was also well connected but negatively correlated with a number of OTUs including OTUs 0499 and 0809.

The other OTUs identified were similar to the lipids identified Category 15 and 18 OTUs.

Sciatic response amplitude positively correlated with LPC 205 and LPC 203 both decreased in 18M-24M and negatively correlated with PC 374 and SE 204 both increased in 18M-24M Figure 6C.

