we conclude that there is still a strong need for more in-depth analyses of the changes in the microbial composition of the pulmonary microbiome during mechanical ventilation and with the development of vap.keywords ventilator-associated pneumonia vap microbiome preventionsubmitted jul 10 2017. accepted for publication jul 21 2017. doi 10.21037atm.2017.08.05view this article at ventilator-associated pneumonia vapthe incidence of vap is estimated to be around 10 in a high risk population of critically ill patients who are mechanically ventilated for more than 48 h 1. it is unclear if vap is responsible for an increase in mortality 2 but it is strongly associated with an increase in icu-length of stay morbidity and healthcare costs 13. the optimal strategy to decrease the impact of vap is three-folded i prevent when possible ii early and targeted treatment when pneumonia develops and iii withholding antibiotics from those patients that develop symptoms but are not infected.over the last decade major improvements have been made in the prevention of vap with great cost-effectiveness 4. preventive measures have been targeted against the two pathophysiological principles of vap development micro-aspiration of bacteria that accumulate above the endotracheal tube oral hygiene semi-recumbent position cuff pressure and suctioning of above the cuff and the introduction of pathogens from the environment hand hygiene bacterial filters and minimal manipulation of the tubing.

positive pressure ventilation also hampers mucociliary clearance and the innate immune response is frequently disturbed in critically ill icu- patients 21. indeed one study comparing patients that developed vat to those that developed vap found that the complement response was severely hampered in thosepatients progressing to pneumonia 22. this might also put the higher risk of vap of neurosurgical patients into a perspective as they frequently have a hampered cough response and altered immune response 23.regional growth conditions in the lung can be the consequence of any condition that affects the lung heterogeneously.

finally chronic pulmonary diseases such as copd are associated with an altered respiratory microbiome in spontaneously breathing patients and it may play a role in the development of exacerbations 29-31. alterations in the pulmonary microbiome and increased microbial loads might also be a cause for dysbiosis induced vap pneumonia developing by selective pressure on the existing microbiome towards the selection of aannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 22 november 2017page 5 of 7single bacterial species that continues to cause pneumonia but there is currently no evidence for this statement in ventilated patients.implications for preventionprevention of vap mainly focuses on the prevention of immigration of bacteria into the lung.

first the bacterial load in the gut is extremely high under healthy circumstances 108 copiesml while the bacterial load in the lung is extremely low as compared to the rest of body exterior 104 copiesml 13. furthermore it is uncertain if the bacteria in a healthy lung do reproduce or are just passing by 11. thus under normal circumstances the lung has no resident microbiome that is resistant to invading microbes.

this might explain why a ventilation strategy with a higher positive end-expiratory pressure decreases the risk of vap 24. acute respiratory distress syndrome ards is characterized by protein rich pulmonary edema which contain high level of amino acids products of glycolysis and lipids that may form a substrate for bacterial metabolism 25-27. empiric clinical evidence supports these experimental findings as patients with ards are at greater risk for vap 28. community-acquired pneumonia is another risk factor for vap that may be explained through regional growth differences the infected part of the lung is damaged and collapsed resulting in regional conditions that may favor one pathogen.

longitudinal studies with daily cultures of endotracheal aspirates suggest that in the majority of the patients the trachea is colonized with causative pathogen at least 1-2 days before pneumonia develops 3839. however colonization does frequently not progress to pneumonia.

a parallel sampling and sequencing of these anatomical parts may permit identification of bacterial contamination and of specific bacterial population in deeper samples.pathophysiologymicrobiome research has shown that the lungs of healthy subjects are not sterile 10 in contrast to conventional wisdom of less than a decade ago 11. the existence of distinct microbial communities within the body changes the perspective for many inflammatory and infectious diseases 10. much research on microbial communities in disease has been performed in the gut 12. there are two important differences between the gut and the lung that result in caution when translating findings from gut microbiome research to the respiratory system.

in contrast analysis of bacterial microbiota can also be performed based on certain conserved regions in the genome which allows for the generation of a phylogenetic tree which described the proportion of each bacterial species or phyla in a sample figure 1.phylogenetic sequencesmicrobiota analysis is based on sequencing of specific regions of the dna genes encoding the 16s ribosomal rna rrna subunit 6. this is made possible by the presence of regions that are conserved throughout the bacterial kingdom within these genes which allows pcr amplification using universal primers.

however in patients who developed vap pseudomonadales including pseudomonas species and acinetobacter species increased to a greater extent than in patients that did not develop vap.

this was irrespective of the development of colonization in the control group which suggests that an increase in opportunistic bacteria such as pseudomonas is associated with vap even if another pathogen is causing the pneumonia 19.elimination is also hampered in intubated and mechanically ventilated patients.

intubated patients developing tracheobronchitis or pneumonia have distinctive complement system gene expression signatures in the pre-infection period a pilot study.

positive-end expiratory pressure reduces incidence of ventilator-associated pneumonia in nonhypoxemic patients.

ventilator-associated pneumonia and icu mortality in severe ards patients ventilated according to a lung-protective strategy.

airway microbiomefunctionalityfigure 1 16s rrna phylogenetic sequencing and metagenomic sequencingoperational taxonomic unitsbut fail to explain why patients who develop vap and ventilator-associated trachea-bronchitis vat carry the same pathogens 1. this suggests that there are either undiscovered pathogen factors that influence pathogenicity or that there are host or environmental factors that influence the development of vap.in this review we will discuss recent advances in molecular biology which allow for the culture-independent evaluation of the bacterial flora in the human body.

towards an ecology of the lung new conceptual models of pulmonary microbiology and pneumonia pathogenesis.

