microbiome comparisons between the 2 groups of cr asthma patients treated or not treated with acid suppression medications were performed individually for each taxa using the 2-part test in explicet 2.8.4 software  boulder colo.by subgrouping cr asthmatics into patients treated with acid suppression medications or not on acid suppression medications we found that cr asthmatics treated with acid suppression medications had unique alterations in their airway microbiome with an increase in percentage of sequences for phylum firmicutes p 5.0134 .

therefore the expansions of streptococci may occur due to various factors that is aerodigestive exchanges due to gerd the direct response to acid suppression medications andor due to the changes in bacterial environment that provide favorable conditions for streptococci growth in the airways.862 letters to the editorj allergy clin immunolseptember 2017in conclusion our study demonstrates expansion of streptococci in the airways of cr asthmatics taking acid suppression medica- tions.

r. martin has received institutional grants from medimmune for other works has received consultancy fees from astra- zeneca teva pharmaceuticals pmd healthcare medimmune and genentech has received grants from chiesi farmaceuitci spa and the national heart lung and blood institute and has received travel expenses from respiratory effectiveness group.

in large population studies the use of acid suppression drugs has been asso- ciated with the development of community-acquired pneumonia often of streptococcal etiology.importantly streptococcus spp had been reported to be able to tolerate an acidic environment better than other microorganisms.to date there are a lack of studies about the contribution of gerd and acid suppressor medications on airway microbiome composition in asthma disease severity and response to corticosteroid treatment.our group recently evaluated airway microbiome in bronchoalveolar lavage samples bal of asthmatic patients identified clinically as corticosteroid resistant cr or corticoste- roid sensitive based on responses to oral prednisone treatment.

a. sperling has received a grant from the national institutes of health grant no.

the rest of the authors declare that they have no relevant conflicts of interest.references..... .....available online march 28 2017.airway microbiome and responses to corticosteroids in corticosteroid-resistant asthma patients treated with acid suppression medicationsto the editorpatients with refractory difficult to treat asthma often have gastroesophageal reflux disease gerd.studies to date empha- size the complexity of interactions between the respiratory and gastrointestinal system.

we found that 6 of 15 cr asthmatics from this group had been using ppis n 5 3 or h2 blockers n 5 3. these patients were categorized post hoc as patients treated with acid suppression medications.

thefig 1. changes in the airway microbiome composition of cr asthmatics treated with acid suppression medications.

distribution of major bacterial phyla based on 16s ribosomal rna rrna sequencing data of bal samples of cr asthmatics on and not on acid suppression medications is provided.j allergy clin immunol volume 140 number 3letters to the editor 861fig 2. effects of different streptococci on primary bronchial epithelial cells activation and response to corticosteroids in vitro.

analysis of streptococcus sequences revealed that the predominant species of genus streptococcus in cr patients on acid suppression medications were s mitis present in 6 of 6 patients and s pseudopneumoniae present in 2 of 6 cr patients.

the bacterial factors responsible for differential activation of bronchial epithelial cells by s mitis and s pseudo in comparison to s oralis need to be defined but likely they are related to the viru- lence factors produced by these bacteria.the reason for the expansion of streptococci in patients on acid suppression medications requires further investigation.

we therefore suggest that comprehensive evaluation of aerodigestive interactions in severe asthma should include the po- tential role of acid suppression medications ppis and h2 blockers and their effects on the esophageal and lower airway microbiome as it relates to corticosteroid response.elena goleva phdaj.

ul1 tr000430 to the institute for translational medicine of the university of chicago.disclosure of potential conflict of interest s. r. white has received grants from the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases grant no.

b. laxman has received grants from the national institute for allergy and infectious diseases and the office of research on women's health grant no.

e. t. naureckas has received a grant from the national institute of al- lergy and infectious diseases.

