the average age of the subjects was 4.4 years range 3.7-4.9 years and the mean age was higher in the healthy children than in the children with asthma or rhinitis 4.2 - 0.5 vs. 4.4 - 0.4 vs. 4.6 - 0.3 respectively p  0.001. atopic indices including total ige levels and allergen sensitization to mites and food were significantly higher in children with asthma and rhinitis than in the healthy controls.

significantly higher abundance of proteobacteria was found in children with rhinitis than in the healthy controls 20.1 vs. 16.1 p  0.009. bacterial species richness chao1 index and diversity shannon index were significantly reduced in children with mite sensitization but not in those with food or ige sensitization.

early sensitization to food has been identified as a risk factor for developing allergic airway diseases whereas sensitization to inhalant allergens appears to be more specific to the development of rhinitis and asthma in early childhood .

at the phylum level a significantly higher prevalence of proteobacteria was found in children with rhinitis than in the healthy controls 20.1 vs. 16.1 p  0.009. furthermore the abundance of members of the genera haemophilus neisseria and moraxella of the phylum proteobacteria in children with rhinitis was significantly increased.bacterial richness and diversity categorized by atopic indices.

we sought to evaluate relationships among airway microbiota serum ige levels allergic sensitization and their relevance to rhinitis and asthma.

compared with healthy children without mite sensitization the mite-sensitized children with rhinitis and asthma showed significantly lower chao1 and shannon indices.

moraxella and leptotrichia species were significantly found in the interaction of mite sensitization with rhinitis and asthma respectively.

although asthma and rhinitis are frequently associated with atopy with pref- erential sensitization to aeroallergens their clinical manifestations present at quite different airway levels.

however few studies have focused on the association between microbiota composition especially in the airways and allergen sensitization and allergic airway diseases such as atopic rhinitis and asthma in early childhood.a detailed understanding of the complexity of airway microbial profiles during early childhood will likely provide much needed clinical insights into this aspect of airway diseases.

however the chao1 and shannon indices in the mite-sensitized children with rhinitis and asthma were significantly lower than those in the healthy children without mite sensitization.beta diversity statistics using the principal coordinate analysis pcoa and non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds revealed no significant differences in the microbial communities cluster patterns with regard to food ige sensitization and allergic airway diseases.

.microorganisms associated with rhinitis and asthma over mite sensitization.

airway micro- organisms associated with mite sensitization for rhinitis and asthma was studied in a linear mixed model for repeated measures.

only significant p values obtained by the mann-whitney test are shown.table 3. microbial profiles identified in the interaction of mite sensitization with rhinitis and asthma.

all p-values  0.05 which is in bold are significant.found in rhinitis and asthma interacting with mite sensitization respectively.

was significantly associated with sensitization to house dust mites but not rhinitis or asthma.

