specifically alcohol and its metabolites promote intestinal inflammation through multiple pathways.that inflammatory response in turn exacerbates alcohol-induced organ damage creating a vicious cycle and leading to additional deleterious effects of alcohol both locally and systemically.this review summarizes the mechanisms by which chronic alcohol intake leads to intestinal inflammation including altering intestinal microbiota composition and function increasing the permeability of the intestinal lining and affecting the intestinal immune homeostasis.

understanding the mechanisms of alcohol-induced intestinal inflammation can aid in the discovery of therapeutic approaches to mitigate alcohol-induced organ dysfunctions.key words alcohol consumption alcohol use abuse and dependence chronic alcohol use organ damage gastrointestinal gi tract liver metabolites gut-derived inflammation intestinal inflammation intestinal microbiotathe gastrointestinal gi tract asthe first line of contact with anything ingested into the body is at particular risk for damage by toxins.

2004.alcohol-induced bacterial overgrowth also may increase the risk of inflamma- tion because intestinal bacteria can independently metabolize alcohol producing excess acetaldehyde in the colon which increases production of proinflammatory alcohol metabolites zhong and zhou 2014.alcohol-induced intestinal hyperpermeabilitythe intestinal barrier regulates the pas- sage of materials between the gi tract and the bloodstream allowing for the absorption by the blood of key nutrients and preventing the absorption of nox- ious substances.

although the majority of alcohol metabolism occurs in hepatocytes the enzymes involved in the oxidative metabolism of alcohol also are present in the intestinal mucosa cederbaum 2012 and intestinal bac- teria also produce acetaldehyde in the gi tract.

2015 and disruptions of the immune system of the intestinal mucosa cook 1998.alcohol and intestinal microbiotathe intestine houses more than 500 bacterial species and achieves bacterial homeostasis when the ratio between good bacteria and pathogenic bacteria is appropriately balanced.

2009. this section discusses evidence supporting alcohol's rolein altering intestinal microbiota.bacterial overgrowthstudies in animals and humans confirm that alcohol increases intestinal bacteria canesso et al.

for example a study in mice found that alcohol inhibits the intestine's immune response for clearing hazardous bacteria sibley and jerrells 2000 and other studies find that alcohol suppresses intestinal mucosal immune cell activity cook 1998. additional studies find myriad ways that alcohol affects mucosal immunity including the followingby reducing the amount of anti- microbial molecules intestinal cells secrete which leads to bacterial overgrowth schnabl and brenner 2014by suppressing the signaling molecule interleukin-22 which negatively affects antimicrobial peptides e.g.

2014. together the evidence on circadian rhythm suggests a looping cycle where circadian disruption promotes alcohol- induced intestinal inflammation and alcohol disturbs circadian rhythm which may further propagate intestinal hyperpermeability and inflammation.dietvarious studies show that nutrition can modify alcohol-induced gut inflamma- tion and subsequently extraintestinal organ damage.

some find fats propagate alcohol's effects on the intestine and some find they attenuate alcohol's harmful effects.the contrast likely reflects the varietyalcohol's effect on immunity and inflammationalcohol can induce intestinal inflammation through a cascade of mechanisms that subsequently lead to inflammation and organ dysfunction throughout the body in particular in the liver and brain.one mechanism is by increasing bacterial loads and the permeability of the intestinal wall see figure allowing bacteria to leak through leading to local and systemic effects by affecting mucosal immunity and via endotoxin release respec- tively.

evidence that chronic alcohol exposure promotes intestinal oxidative stress intestinal hyperpermeability and endotoxemia prior to development of alcoholic steatohepatitis in rats.

alcohol intestinal bacterial growth intestinal permeability to endotoxin and medical consequences summary of a symposium.

2015. this alcohol-induced intestinal inflammation may be at the root of multiple organ dysfunctions and chronic disorders associated with alcohol consumption including chronic liver disease neurological disease gicancers and inflammatory bowel syn- drome.

this review summarizes the mechanisms by which chronic alcohol intake leads to intestinal inflammation.

these mechanisms include alcohol's influences on intestinal microbiota on the integrity of the barrier between the intestine and the rest of the body and on immune function within and outside the gi tract.

although there may be large gender racial and interindividual variationsin alcohol's effect on the gi tract depending on differences in alcohol absorption distribution and elimination they are not the focus of the current review.alcohol metabolism and the gutonce consumed alcohol is absorbed mainly in the upper intestinal tract by diffusion and then enters the liver via the portal vein.

