halobacteriovorax inoculation also altered the microbiome but to a lesser degree than v. coralliilyticus and halobacteriovorax were never detected after inoculation.

although v. coralliilyticus has not been shown to cause disease in the coral m. cavernosa we believe that v. coralliilyticus serves as an interesting model to investigate the interactions and effects of bacterial predation on aprey taxon accession number50 killing ratein liquid media hourspredation by halobacteriovorax double layer assayhost given that it is a well understood bacterium and is consumed by our model predatorhalobacteriovorax a member of the coral core microbiome .we first evaluated if vibrios can be preyed upon by coral-associated halobacteriovorax by conducting a series of predation assays in liquid and solid media.

to further encourage vibrio coralliilyticus to affect the host andor microbiome all coral cores including the controls and halobacteriovorax challenges were taken from common garden tank at time zero scored with a file to mimic tissue damage and inoculated in the beakers by transferring the sterile media control v. coralliilyticus or halobacteriovorax cells using a sterile q-tip adwin scientific schaumburg il usa.the 48 coral cores were divided into 4 treatments for the main experiment providing 12 cores per treatment.

however the disproportionate impact of the v. coralliilyticus was not observed in samples challenged with the predator halobacteriovorax suggesting that this is not a generalizable response to the wounding and addition of any kind of bacteria.halobacteriovorax as a possible top down control of opportunists we have previously cultivated halobacteriovorax from multiple-species of corals and used long-term microbial time series data to show that despite its low abundance it is a core member of the microbiome of several coral genera .

in a similar fashion to phages halobacteriovorax thus mediates top-down control of pathogens by preventing initial invasion of the host.microbiome manipulation validates previous network analysis predictionsa small but growing body of research suggests halobacteriovorax naturally occur and regularly interact with members of the coral microbiome.

open accessalien vs. predator bacterial challenge alters coral microbiomes unless controlled by halobacteriovorax predatorsrory m. welsh stephanie m. rosales jesse r. zaneveld jerome p. payet ryan mcminds steven l. hubbs and rebecca l. vega thurber1 department of microbiology oregon state university corvallis or usa2 department of biological sciences university of washington bothell bothell wa usa these authors contributed equally to this work.abstractcoral microbiomes are known to play important roles in organismal health response to environmental stress and resistance to disease.

we challenged reef-building coral with v. coralliilyticus in the presence or absence of halobacteriovorax predators and monitored microbial community dynamics with 16s rrna gene profiling time-series.

rhodobacterales increased from 6.99  0.05 sem to a maximum mean relative abundance of 48.75  0.14 sem in the final time point and cytophagales from 0.001 to 3.656. halobacteriovorax predators are commonly present at low-abundance on coral surfaces.

based on the keystone role of predators in many ecosystems we hypothesized that halobacteriovorax predators might help protect corals by consuming foreign or ''alien'' gram negative bacteria.

simultaneous challenge with both v. coralliilyticus and predatory halobacteriovorax eliminated the increase in v. coralliilyticus ameliorated changes to the rest of the coral microbiome and prevented the secondary blooms of opportunistic rhodobacteraleshow to cite this article welsh et al.

peerj 5e3315 doi subjects bioinformatics ecology marine biology microbiologykeywords balos halobacteriovorax vibrio coralliilyticus microbiome bacterial challengeintroductioncoral reefs have experienced sharp declines in coral cover from environmental factors  temperature induced bleaching  and disease   with some areas of the caribbean experiencing as much as 80 coral loss over the past several decades .

increasingly viruses and phages are recognized as also playing a regulatory role in the holobiont by controlling microbial populations   .we have recently described how the predatory bacteria halobacteriovorax also likely influences the diversity and dynamics of the microbial community in the coral surface mucus layer through consumption of a broad range of bacterial prey .

halobacteriovorax spp.

halobacteriovorax are the marine component of a group of delta-proteobacteria known as bdellovibrio and like organisms balos.

for example we highlighted potential interactions of halobacteriovorax and other members of the coral holobiont usingco-occurrence network analysis of an in-field experimental time series of three coral genera across three years several treatments and range of temperature conditions.

