2014 and a suite of two to 72 species microcosms comprising isolates from water-filled tree holes foster and bell 2012. these natural biofilm sys- tems mimic the species composition of the environment more closely than do model engineered biofilm systems.experimental multispecies biofilm model systems 45defined engineered multispecies biofilm systemssuch biofilms have generally been designed to achieve1 high reproducibility 2 short experimental time- frames 3 coexistence of all member species 4 the ability to track individual population dynamics and 5 the capacity for genetic manipulation and the application of general 'omics' approaches fig.

additionally the culture conditions used in the laboratory may not reflect the environments of the selected species in terms of temperature optima and range of variation nutrient source uv exposure etc.thus domesticated strains may no longer behave in the same way as their wild counterparts palkova 2004.defined natural multispecies biofilm systemsto overcome limitations associated with the use of labo- ratory strains in multispecies biofilm systems organisms that are isolated directly from the environment of interest can be adopted instead.

s. rhizophila m. oxy- dans and p. amylolyticus formed low amounts of biofilm on their own while x. retroflexus was the only species capable of significant biofilm formation on its own.

giv- en that some defined model biofilm communities show cooperative behaviours in terms of biofilm biomass pro- duction as well as enhanced stress tolerance and metabolism it is likely that these more complex commu- nities show similar or perhaps even greater levels of benefits for the community.there are nonetheless challenges associated with these naturally established multispecies communities fig.

2010.undefined engineered multispecies biofilm model systemsthe in situ studies of native communities such as amd and microbial mats offer the most direct relevant infor- mation regarding biofilm community ecology and physiol- ogy.

2014. in those studies the granular biofilm development was classified into a five-step process resembling the typical surface- associated biofilm formation.

and wolcott r. 2009 effects of biofilm treatments on the multi-species lubbock chronic wound biofilm model.

periasamy s. mukherjee m. xie c. kjelleberg s. and rice s.a. 2014a biofilm develop- ment and enhanced stress resistance of a model mixed- species community biofilm.

environmental microbiology 2017 191 42-53doi10.11111462-2920.13594minireviewall together now experimental multispecies biofilm model systemschuan hao tan1 kai wei kelvin lee1 mette burmolle2 staffan kjelleberg13 and scott a. rice131the singapore centre for environmental life sciencesengineering nanyang technological university singapore.2section of microbiology department of biologyuniversity of copenhagen copenhagen denmark.

3the school of biological sciences nanyang technological university singapore.summarystudies of microorganisms have traditionally focused on single species populations which have greatly facilitated our understanding of the genetics and physiology that underpin microbial growth adaptation and biofilm development.

metabolomics has also been successfully employed to investigate biofilm development orphan and house 2009 louie et al.

2014a b. these biofilm communities assemble as a consequence of interspecies interactions which not only dictate community structure and organization but also function elias and banin 2012 rendueles and ghigo 2012 burmolle et al.

2014. there are many different approaches and methods that can be used for studying biofilm formation and development ranging from relatively simple microtitre based assays coupled with staining for example crystal violet to the highly sophisti- cated sequencing batch reactors used for the undefined complex biofilms described below.

2014 tolker- nielsen and sternberg 2014. importantly the system should allow one to set definitions for the interactions understudy for example what constitutes synergy or antagonism and should take into consideration whether one needs to quantify the relative proportions of species in the community individual versus overall activity etc.experimental multispecies biofilm model systems 43ultimately studies of such microbial consortia should translate into a better more ecologically relevant under- standing of how communities function in their native envi- ronment.

this review will summarize the current state of the art in studies of several such experimental multispe- cies biofilm systems fig.

