.here we assess the potential competitive interactions be- tween microbial mat communities from lake hoare and lake chad to determine the competitive hierarchy between mats and the role of allelopathy in those competitive outcomes.materials and methodsfield samplingmicrobial moat mats from lake hoare and lake chad and the prostrate mat from lake hoare were sampled during the aus-tral summers of 1992 and 1993. a tethered scuba diver surveyed the benthos of lake hoare at a depth of 20 m for the percent cover of aerobic and anaerobic prostrate mats the former dis- tinguished by its smooth texture and colored 'tissue' while the latter had a coarse texture and a blackened 'tissue' wharton parker and simmons  and for potential competitive inter- actions with other mat ecomorphologies i.e.

after 2 weeks the mat material was reweighed and subse- quent mat cultures for competition experiments utilized the best growth conditions achieved with a combination of reduced nutrients and enhanced irradiance.subsamples of the moat mats from lake hoare and lake chad and the deep mat from lake hoare were freeze dried weighed and extracted in a 11 mixture of dichloromethane methanol dcmmeoh.

a. the cores lake chad moat mat lcmm lake hoare moat mat lhmm and lake hoare deep mat lhdm were buoyant weighed and placed into 1l erlenmeyer flasks as monocultures n  5 each under optimized incubation conditions to assess growth rates over 14 days.

5figure 4. antimicrobial activity of lake chad and lake hoare moat mats lcmm and lhmm respectively and lake hoare deep prostrate mat lhdm extracts against intact lhdm.

histograms with different letter groups are significant by repeated measures anova.figure 3. competitive co-culture of lake chad and lake hoare moat mats lcmm and lhmm respectively and lake hoare deep prostrate mats lhdm.

lake hoare has a surface area that is an order of magnitude larger than lake chad 1.77 km2 vs 0.173 km2 and a maximum depth that is five times greater 31 m vs 6 m. both lakes are covered by 3-5 m of permanent ice with seasonal meltwater moats around their edges.

intact microbial mats were also collected by hand from the moats of each lake depth 20 cm and placed into discrete 75 l coolers containing lake water.

a chi-square analysis with a null hypothesis of no difference between control and treatment disks was used to demonstrate the allelopathic ac- tivity of the microbial mats.dna extractionsamples of lake hoare microbial mat material that had been col- lected in the austral summer of 1991 from the surface of lake hoare and represented uplifted columnar mat material that had ablated through the permanent ice wharton parker and simmons  were 'freeze-dried' by the cold desert conditions placed in nalgene bottles and frozen -20c until extraction.

'tyrosol' concentration 0.29 from lake chad and an- other bioactive compound 4s8re-1-chlorotridec-1-ene-48- diol concentration 0.01 from lake hoare fig.

this divergence in mat communities within a lake suggests that mats from dif- ferent niches within a lake would experience significant stress outside their niche e.g.

however our results now provide signif- icant evidence for biotic processes   competition controlling antarctic dry valley lake communities.specifically transects at depth in lake hoare demonstrate a segregation of mat ecomorphologies only 7 of 50 quadrats con- tained two mat ecomorphologies and 3 of these instances repre- sented the presence of 'transient' subducted moat mat material.

we observed direct contactclose contact betweenfigure 5. antimicrobial activity of pure compounds from the lake chad left 'ty- rosol' and lake hoare right 4s8re-1-chlorotridec-1-ene-48-diol moat mats lcmm and lhmm respectively tested against intact lhdm.

moreover comparisons of shallow moat mat and deepaerobic prostrate mat microbial mats from lake chad and lake hoare indicate the moat mat constituents from separate lakes have more in common than do shallow and deep mats from the same lake.while this project did not address competition for a specific resource e.g.

that has resulted in a contiguous lake chad and lake hoare spaulding et al.

future studies on the microbial mat communities of the antarctic dry valleys should consider biotic interactions as a process that drives the ecology of these unique ecosystems.supplementary datasupplementary data are available at online.acknowledgementsdale anderson introduced ms to the dry valley lakes and pro- vided logistical support at the lake hoare field camp while sup- port in the dry valleys which provided access to lake hoare for mpl was provided by michael lizotte.

