2017 may 10 215 559-560. doi10.1016j.chom.2017.04.015.allied commensal forces against vancomycin-resistant enterococcibrayon j. fremin1 and ami s. bhatt121department of genetics stanford university stanford ca 94305 usa2department of medicine hematology stanford university stanford ca 94305 usaabstractin this issue of cell host  microbe caballero et al.

in 1988 uttley et al.

reported the first cases of vancomycin-resistant enterococci 55 resistant strains were isolated from 22 hospitalized patients in the uk uttley et al.

1988. the finding was presciently deemed worrying and what was then a curious but concerning discovery is now one of the leading nosocomial health threats in the world cetinkaya et al.

while early work suggests that antibiotics downregulate intestinal regiiia and thus potentiate colonization a growing body of evidence suggests that a loss of commensal microbes upon antibiotic exposure also plays a direct role in modulating the colonizing ability of vre brandl et al.

2008. in this issue caballero et al.

the first is the isolation of a 17-strain mixture of clostridial strains capable of enhancing the abundance of intestinal regulatory t cells by kenya honda and colleagues atarashi et al.

2013. the second by the lab of eric pamer identifiedfremin and bhattpage 2clostridium scindens as sufficient to improve clostridium difficile-associated diarrheal symptoms in a mouse model buffie et al.

finally there was the much-publicized commercial development of a defined consortium of microbes by seres therapeutics for application in c. difficile-associated diarrhea khanna et al.

indeed while the initial phase 1b study of the ser-109 defined consortium for c. difficile-associated diarrhea was promising khanna et al.

still an abundance of preclinical data supports the potential utility of this approach in c. difficile-associated diarrhea-affected patients and it appears that a follow-up larger phase ii study named ecospor iii is being planned though at the time of publication it was not yet registered on clinicaltrials.gov.in previous work by the pamer group fecal microbiota transfer fmt was shown to effectively clear vre in a mouse model ubeda et al.

2013 just as it has been exceedingly effective in treating human colitis induced by another type of low-diversity-associated opportunist clostridium difficile van nood et al.

2013 youngster et al.

in the gut microbiota were protected against vre colonization and bloodstream infections suggested translatability of this finding ubeda et al.

2013. building upon this set of observations now caballero et al.

