trypsin activity and body weight showed a significant correlation in the male mice data not shown r  0.739 p  0.006. to make sure that the reduction of this gut enzyme does not depend on reduced synthesis per se we analyzed trypsin activity and sum of trypsinogentrypsin activity in pancre- atic homogenates supplementary figure 3. both enzymatic activities were indistinguishable between 5xfad male mice and wild type littermates at the age of nine weeks.potential role of ens-derived ab in trypsin deficiencythe transgenes in the 5xfad mice al3pp ps1 are under control of the thy1 promoter 28.fig.

1c p  0.535 for male wild type versus 5xfad all other p  0.999.decrease in fecal trypsin amount in early pathological stages of 5xfad micedifficulties in gaining weight could be caused by reduced food intake as well as by hyperactivity offig.

p  0.01.impact of fibrillized ab on trypsin migration in sds acrylamide gel and enzymatic activityit has been described that fibrillary al3 is able to complex trypsin in a sds-stable manner 41. this might retain formed complexes at the border of stack- ing and separation gel during sds polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and explain reduced detection of trypsin in 5xfad mice in our experiments.

several recent studies report for example an altered bacterial community in stool samples derived from children with autism 10 11. changes of the microbiota such as small intesti- nal bacterial overgrowth a malabsorption syndrome have also been found in parkinson's disease patients 12. such changes are accompanied by altered bac- terial metabolite amounts for example short chain fatty acids 13. interestingly in parkinson's dis- ease intranuclear alpha-synuclein depositions not only occur in the cns but also in the gastric myenteric and submucosal plexuses 14. for other psychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia epilepsy or sleep disorders a potential correlation has yet not been deciphered in detail 15.alzheimer's disease is the most prominent cns disorder of the aging population and it has already been speculated that pathogenic microbes or alteredmicrobiota composition might contribute to this neu- rodegenerative disease summarized in 16.one of the hallmarks of alzheimer's disease the al3 peptides that derive from proteolytic process- ing of the amyloid-l3 protein precursor al3pp has been demonstrated to be deposited in intesti- nal tissue already decades ago 17. in ad patients as wells as healthy controls al3pp immunoreac- tivity was located in enteric ganglia from the esophagus throughout the transverse colon while mucosa or smooth muscle were not labeled 18. in the tgcrnd8 ad mouse model al3 plaque-like structures in the gut have been described accom- panied by reduced thickness of longitudinal as well as circular muscle layer and decreased contraction potential 19.patients already diagnosed with alzheimer's disease-related dementia show rapid weight loss associated with faster disease progression 20- 22.this may result from forgetfulness on food intake or impairment of odor recognition by degeneration of olfactory cortex neurons which is an early event in ad e.g.

therefore the 5xfad model definitely comprises gastrointestinal expression of the transgenic human al3pp.furthermore we investigated whether al3 pep- tides might interfere with gut function binding of the neurotoxic peptide to trypsin has been previously described in in vitro experiments 41. we could not verify formation of such sds-stable complexes nev- ertheless pre-formed fibrils in high concentration reduced tryptic activity by 40. this has also been reported by chauhan and colleagues who described a fibril-specific inhibition of trypsin by al3 peptides to 50 of control 53. an impact of al3 on digestionand resorption of food components might be plau- sible because a co-localization of the peptides with chylomicron-apob in small intestine enterocytes of the mouse has been reported 54.we also analyzed potential changes of fecal micro- biota due to the 5xfad genotype.

values represent the mean weight of four consecutive daily measurements sem unpaired student's t-test ns p  0.05 p  0.05 p  0.01. c pups were weighed six days after birth.

values of p  0.05 were considered statis- tically significant.resultstransient body weight reduction in male 5xfad miceonset of al3 production has been described in 5xfad mice as early as at the age of 1.5 months 28.therefore first pathological effects can be expected at this young adult stage.

this decreased body weight persisted to an age of nine weeks 6 dif- ference to wild type p  0.023 and disappeared at 18 weeks of age p  0.606. in female mice we did not detect this transient phenotypic difference between the 5xfad model mice and wild type lit- termates e.g.

4a b while anal- ysis of the colon revealed no statistically significant hal3pp mrna content for 1 month p  0.664 for 8 months p  0.091 all other gut tissue specimen showed elevated signals above background in 5xfad mice independently of age.

6c the amount of firmicutes was increased in the 5xfad model mice from 34 to 49 p  0.003 while bacteroidetes were decreased from 61 to 46 p  0.003 in comparison to the wild type littermates.

3c p  0.044 trypsin activity was decreased to about 50 in 5xfad mice as com- pared to wild types.

p  0.359 age of six weeks.although general daily food intake did not dif- fer between wild type and 5xfad mice we wanted to further analyze molecular components of feed- ing behavior namely carbonic anhydrase vi gustin cavi and the protease trypsin.

byanalyzingthefecalmicrobiomeofthe 5xfadmice as compared to their wild type littermates we recog- nized an increased firmicutes bacteroidetes ratio at the age of nine weeks a time point where trypsin defi- ciency was still detectable ratio of 34.161  0.56 in wild type as compared to 49.246  1.07 in 5xfad animals p  0.002. interestingly a high fir- micutes to bacteroidetes ratio is found in obese mice as well as humans 57 58. this might be inter- preted as a reaction in regard to imbalance of digestive protein break-down.

for trypsin it has been shown that it reduces the secretion of the hormone cholecystokinin which regulates meal patterns in mice cck 37 38. the fecal trypsin amountwas diminished in young 5xfad animals to about 40-50 of control fig.

nev- ertheless no change in trypsin activity and trypsin production in pancreatic tissue from the 5xfad mice could be observed.

