il1rn--mice colonized by lactobacil- lus bifidus rapidly develop arthritis andshowed that the onset of arthritis was dependent on toll-like receptor tlr activation by l. bifidus .

br j nutr 80suppl 1147-171mcculloch j lydyard pm rook ga 1993 rheumatoid arthritis how well do the theories fit theevidence clin exp immunol 921-6peltonen r nenonen m helve t hanninen o toivanen p eerola e 1997 faecal microbial flora and disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis during avegandiet.

br jrheumatol 3664-68malin m verronen p mykkanen h salminen s isolauri e 1996 increased bacterial urease activity in faeces in juvenile chronic arthritis evidence of altered intestinal microflora br j rheumatol 35689-694eerola e mottonen t hannonen p luukkainen r kantola i vuori k et al 1994 intestinal flora in early rheumatoid arthritis.

arthritis res ther 41vaahtovuo j munukka e korkeamaki m luukkainen r toivanen p 2008 fecal micro- biota in early rheumatoid arthritis.

acta med scand 184395-402severijnen aj kool j swaak aj hazenberg mp 1990 intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis induction of chronic arthritis in rats by cell wall fragments from isolated eubacterium aerofaciensstrains.

arthritis rheumatol 29220-226sundqvist t lindstrom f magnusson ke skold- stam l stjernstrom i tagesson c 1982 influence of fasting on intestinal permeability and disease activity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

kang  y. cai  x. zhang  x. kong  j. sumedical faculty kunming university of science and technology kunming yunnan chinaaltered gut microbiota in ra implications for treatmentintroductionrheumatoid arthritis ra is a relatively common autoimmune disease character- ized by progressive joint disorder signif- icant pain and functional disability.

elevated levels of anti- bodies against gut bacteria and food havebeen observed in people with a wide va- riety of forms of inflammatory arthritis  .

thus certain lactobacillus species may induce arthritis .

other research has suggested that the peptidoglycan struc- ture of cell walls of l. casei plays a key role in inducing arthritis .

furthermore col- lagen-induced arthritis-susceptible hu- man leukocyte antigen hla-dq8 mice treated with collinsella aerofaciens revealed the ability of c. aerofaciens to induce arthritis with enhanced incidence and severity.

further re- search showed that cell wall fragments from eubacterium aerofaciens strains in- duced chronic arthritis in rats sharing several histopathological features with ra  .

its cell walls have potent arthropathic prop- erties and the resulting arthritis shares several histopathological features with ra.

in con- clusion the most likely hypothesis is that the p. copri-defined microbiota can thrive in a proinflammatory environment and may aggravate inflammation.lactobacillus bifidusprevious research has testified that the colonization of certain gut microbiome species may have an influence on the development of autoimmune arthritis.

presence of endogenous tlr4 ligands in ra joints drives the sponta- neous production of cytokines by ra synovial tissue.segmented filamentous bacteria the kbxn mouse model had strongly attenuated autoimmune arthritis under germ-free gf conditions with re- ductions in serum autoantibody titers splenic autoantibody-secreting cells ger- minal centers and the splenic t helper 17 th17 cell population .

