finally there were 26 sbs samples in- cluded in this study seven in the asymptomatic group 14 in the pnald group and five in the clabsi group and there were no replicat- ed samples from one patient in each group .the antibiotic use of each sbs patient at the time of sample collection during pn except one sample without a record was classified as fol- lows 1 no use no antibiotics received before sample collection n  2 2 re-use patient had taken antibiotics before and after a pause and was re-using at the time of sampling n  7 3 using pa- tient was continually using antibiotics until the time of sampling n  5 and 4 used patient had received antibiotics previously but was not taking them at the time of sampling n  11. for samples labeled as re-use or using days of continuous antibiotic exposure when the sample was collected were also recorded .seven healthy infants aged 4-10 months were randomly recruitedfrom the community in yangpu district shanghai by contacting their parents or guardians during the period when we collected the samples from infants with sbs.

significantly higher level of proteobacteria but lower levels of actinobacteria were harbored in the pnald group p b 0.001 p  0.014 and clabsi group p b 0.001 p  0.005 compared with the asymptomatic group.

the top three bacterial families in the con- trol group were bacteroidaceae 31.3 enterobacteriaceae 17.7 and76.3 of total otus in the pnald group and 94 in the clabsi group.

veillonellaceae 7 was the third most predominant bacterial group in the pnald group and gammaproteobacteria 3.1 in the clabsi group.

the results indicated that at the phylum level bacteroidetes were enriched in the control group whereas firmicutes and actinobacteria were enriched in the asymptomatic group and proteobacteria in the clabsi group.

clabsi central line-associated bloodstream infection pnald parenteral nutrition-associated liver disease sbs short bowel syndrome.the level of acetate in the control group was significantly higher than in the three sbs groups while there was no difference in acetate level among the three sbs groups b. propionate and butyrate levels were similar among the three sbs groups and control group p 0.583 for propionate p  0.775 for butyrate b. the total scfa level in the three sbs groups was also similar to that in the control group data not shown.composition of bas in sbs was unchangedtwenty-six of the 40 species of bas were detected both conjugated and unconjugated primary and secondary bas .

the diversity of microbio- ta in the asymptomatic group was similar to that in the control group as evaluated by shannon index and the number of species.

in the control group firmicutes was the most abundant bacterial phylum 41.6 followed by bacteroidetes 38.7 and proteobacteria 18.2. similarly firmicutes remained the most abundant bacterial phylum in the asymptomatic group 64.6 while the proportion of proteobacteria was enlarged and accounted for 28.2 of the total otus and the proportion of bacteroidetes was de- creased to 2.8. in contrast proteobacteria was the most abundant in the pnald 75 and clabsi 92.7 groups followed by firmicutesfig.

p b 0.05 compared with control group by q testp b 0.05 compared with asymptomatic group by q test.clabsi central-line-associated bloodstream infection pnald parenteral nutrition-asso- ciated liver disease.in both groups.

the results showed that although overlap was not observed in samples from the asymptomatic group and control group they showed some closefig.

in the clabsi group the representative genera were not found.siga calprotectin propionate and butyrate were similar among the four groupsthe level of siga in the control group was 29569.9 - 23584 mgkg.

b acetate level in the control group was higher than in the three sbs groups while propionate and butyrate levels were unchanged in the three sbs groups compared with the control group analyzed by nonparametric friedman's m test followed by q test.

gasliquid chro- matography hewlett packard minnesota mn usa was performed to analyze fecal samples and 40 bas were tested using a method validated by our group .

age mainly contributed to changes in bacteroidetes and proteobacteria while pn was associated with actinobacteria and firmicutes.bacterial diversity between subgroups of patients with sbs and controlsspecies richness and diversity estimations were calculated for each group .

the level of richness of bacteria in all three sbs sample groups was decreased compared with the control group as estimated by chao 1 estimator.

