bmc gastroenterology 2017 1774doi 10.1186s12876-017-0629-2alteration of gut microbiota in association with cholesterol gallstone formation in miceqihan wang1 long jiao2 chuanqi he2 haidong sun1 qu cai1 tianquan han1 and hai hu2backgroundgallstone disease is one of the most common gastrointestinal diseases in us and european coun- tries  with incidence around 10-15 among adults in chinese han population its incidence increases close to western countries in recent years almost 90 of the gallstones found at cholecyst- ectomy were of cholesterol type  formation of cholesterol gallstone is a complex process through the interaction of genetic and environmental factors  supersaturation of biliary cholesterol due to either hyper-secretion of biliary cholesterol or decreased bile acids is believed to be prerequisite for the gallstone formation - correspondence equal contributors2institute of gallstone disease center of gallbladder disease shanghai east hospital tongji university school of medicine 150 jimo road shanghai 201200 chinafull list of author information is available at the end of the articlegut microbiota play important roles in regulating the enterohepatic bile acid recycling process through modifying bile acid composition and pool size and consequentially influencing intestinal cholesterol ab- sorption gut microbiota could profound change the physical characteristics of the bile acids - such regulation is also crucial for cholesterol metabolism because conversion of cholestrol into bile acids is a key step to get rid of excess cholesterol in the body  intestinal cholesterol absorption rate is much regulated by the hydrophobicity of bile acid composition as well .

such changes in gut microbiota may contribute to the metabolic disorders of cholesterol and bile acid which were significant factors contributing to the formation of cholesterol gallstone.abbreviationsace abundance-based cover-age estimator bsh bile salt hydrolases ca cholic acid dca deoxycholic acid ld lithogenic diet lda linear discriminant analysis lefse lda effect size lps lipopolysaccharide pcoa principal coordinate analysis rdp ribosomal database project spf specific pathogen freeacknowledgementsnone.fundingthis work was supported by the national natural science foundation of china grant nos.

compared with primary bile acids secondary bile acids have different critical mi- cellar concentration and lower solubility in aqueous solution on the other hand cholic acid ca and deoxycholic acid dca have strong antimicrobial activity the gut microbiota may act as an energy harvest organ in digestion and metabolism of macromolecularc the authors.

high fat diet or western diet which con- tained high cholesterol only with no cholic acid in- creased in firmicutes and a ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes in mice - however in the pres- ence of cholic acid we observed a profound decrease in firmicutes.

199944435-8.sayin si wahlstrom a felin j jantti s marschall hu bamberg k angelin b hyotylainen t oresic m backhed f. gut microbiota regulates bile acid metabolism by reducing the levels of tauro-beta-muricholic acid a naturally occurring fxr antagonist.

7alpha-dehydroxylation of cholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid by clostridium leptum.

200529625-51.berr f schreiber e frick u. interrelationships of bile acid and phospholipid fatty acid species with cholesterol saturation of duodenal bile in health and gallstone disease.

two weeks after adaption to the environment the mice were randomly assigned into two groups 8 micegroup fed with either litho- genic diet containing 1.25 cholesterol  0.5 cholic acid ld group or chow diet 0.02 cholesterol chow group for 56 days.

this may in turn lead to a higher level of 7a-dehydroxylase in intes- tinal and increase secondary bile acid levels which are known to be related with higher biliary choles- terol secretion and favor gallstone formation.

investigated the alterations in the gut microbiota after administration of cholic acid alone in rats.

they found that feeding with a diet containing 0.5 gkg or 2 gkg cholic acid for 10 days could increase firmicutes and decrease bacteroidetes.

while in our study the gut microbiota profile was affected by both cholesterol and higher concentra- tion of cholic acid 5 gkg for longer period 56 days.

the difference response of gut microbiota in response to cholic acid might be due to the dif- ferences in dose and length of exposure.

200515391-8.midtvedt t. microbial bile acid transformation.

197920325-33.shao d wang y huang q shi j yang h pan z jin m zhao h xu x. cholesterol-lowering effects and mechanisms in view of bile acid pathway of resveratrol and resveratrol glucuronides.

