digestive and liver disease 49 2017 331-337review articlealtered molecular signature of intestinal microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome patients compared with healthy controls a systematic review and meta-analysishai-ning liuhao wuyu-zhuo chenyan-jie chenxi-zhong shentao-tao liua department of gastroenterology zhongshan hospital of fudan university shanghai chinab shanghai institute of liver diseases zhongshan hospital of fudan university shanghai chinaa r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c t article historyreceived 19 june 2016accepted 9 january 2017available online 21 january 2017keywordsintestinal microbiota irritable bowel syndrome meta-analysis systematic reviewbackground many studies have reported significant changes in intestinal microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome ibs patients based on quantitative real-time pcr analysis.aims we aimed to review the alterations in intestinal microbiota.methods an online search up to june 9 2016 was conducted.

based on the advantages of q-pcr we retrieved studies using q-pcr performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of the differential expression of the intestinal microbiota in ibs and discuss the potential implications.methodssearch strategywe retrieved reports from pubmed web of science and chi- nese biomedical literature database cbm up to june 9 2016. the search strategy was ibs or irritable bowel syndrome and q- pcr or q-pcr or real-time and microbiome or microbiota or flora.

the exclusion criteria were as follows1 failure to provide expression data for the microbiota 2 dupli- cate data reported in other studies 3 animal studies intervention studies letters and reviews.quality assessmentthere is currently no gold-standard quality assessment tool for laboratory studies thus we constructed a new assessment tool based on a diagnostic test we screened for the fol- lowing eight criteria 1 the study population was described including the inclusion and exclusion criteria setting and loca- tions where data were collected 2 the diagnostic standards were described 3 the technical specifications included the materi- als and methods involved how and when measurements were taken and cited references for index tests and reference stan- dards 4 methods for calculating test reproducibility if performed were described 5 the clinical and demographic characteristics of the study population e.g.

studies were scored according to each applicable criterion as 1 yes 2 no or unclear.data extractiontwo reviewers independently extracted the following data from all eligible studies 1 basic characteristics of the studies includ- ing name of the first author year of publication country of origin sample size mean age male ratio and diagnostic criteria 2 exper- imental methods including fluorescent dye q-pcr instrument 3 the target species of the primers which were extracted from the included studies and their primary references 4 the effect size of microbiota including mean or median standard deviation or quartile and p values.fig.

finally 13 articles met our inclusion criteria after remov- ing animal studies intervention studies letters and reviews  a total of 360 ibs patients and 268 healthy controls were included with sample sizes ranging from 6 to 77. the charac- teristics and experimental methods of the 13 studies are presented in methodological quality assessmentwe assessed the selected studies using the eight criteria men- tioned above.

an irritable bowel syndrome subtype defined by species-specific alterations in faecal microbiota.

review article evidence for the role of gut microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome and its potential influence on therapeutic targets.

world journal of gastroenterology 2014202482-91.taverniti v guglielmetti s. methodological issues in the study of intestinal microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome.

altered profiles of intestinal microbiota and organic acids may be the origin of symptoms in irritable bowel syndrome.

analysis of the fecal microbiota of irritable bowel syndrome patients with 16s rdna real-time pcr.

fecal microbiota in patients with irritable bowel syndrome compared with healthy controls using real-time polymerase chain reaction an evidence of dysbiosis.

luminal and mucosal-associated intestinal microbiota in patients with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome.

microbial community analy- sis reveals high level phylogenetic alterations in the overall gastrointestinal microbiota of diarrhoea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome sufferers.

lower bifidobacteria counts in both duodenal mucosa-associated and fecal microbiota in irritable bowel syndrome patients.

distinct microbial populations exist in the mucosa-associated microbiota of sub-groups of irritable bowel syndrome.

