the high palatability of caf influences the mechanisms of satiety and the reward system 7 blunting the natural homeostatic control of energy intake and inducing hyperphagia and therefore exacerbated food consumption mimicking the mechanisms that lead to obesity in humans under the so-called western diet 89. therefore the different effects of diet-induced mets have been widely explored by means of the caf rodent model either at the physiological psychological or molecular level and the effects of different dietary interventions 10-12.during the few last years a growing body of evidence has shown that the response to a given diet depends on the gut microbiome of the host among other factors such as the genetic background 13-17. in fact different studies have highlighted important differences that exist in the gut microbiota among subjects from around the world with extremely different diets 16. the exact mechanisms are still under debate but it has been widely demonstrated that the gutmicrobial community is shaped by diet and at the same time plays a key role in the transformation and absorption of nutrients by the host such as fibers fatty acids or amino acid- derived molecules among others as well as endogenous metabolites such as bile acids 1318. therefore the microbiota determine how different key nutrients and bioactive molecules exert their signaling actions through modulation of hormones and other receptors.

however to date no specific microbiome fingerprint for obesity has been identified 23.the clear effects of caf on different components of mets and the role of gut microbiota in obesity and its derived pathologies prompted us to hypothesize that caf can alter the gut microbiome of healthy rats and that these changes may be associated with some physiological alterations related to mets caused by this specific diet.

also hepatic lipid accretion was associated with changes in microbiota highlighting the relevance of gut microbiota homeostasis in the adipose-liver axis.conclusions overall our results suggest that caf feeding has a profound impact on the gut microbiome and in turn that these changes may be associated with important features of mets.introductionthe incidence of metabolic syndrome mets is growing among developed and developing societies due to the increasing prevalence of obesity among all population groups 12. different preclinical models have been developed in order to study the mechanisms involved in the progression of this complex condition as well as to define effective treatments 34. in this regard the cafeteria diet caf-fed rodent has emerged as a valuable model because it develops the main features of mets i.e.

our objective was to assess the effects of caf on gut microbiota and their associations with different components of mets in wistar rats.methods animals were fed a standard diet or caf for 12 weeks.

with the exception of the microbiome analysis described above the rest of the statistical analyses were conducted with r commander software for windows 32.resultsrats fed a caf for 12 weeks developed obesity and metabolic syndromeas expected caf was associated with hyperphagia resulting in a two-fold increase in energy intake table 1. this was mainly due to a five-fold and a two-fold increase in lipid and carbohydrate intake respectively.

our association study highlights the relevance of the microbiota on this adipose-liver axis a putative link that has been explored by other authors 42. nevertheless more research is needed to clearly define the extent to which the microbiota affect this complex system.we have demonstrated that caf modifies dramatically the host microbiome.

a pls-based methodology was used to reveal associations between gut microbiota characterized by 16s rdna gene sequencing and biochemical nutritional and physiological parameters.results caf feeding resulted in obesity dyslipidemia insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis.

in agreement with this point of view our results suggest that caf-induced obesity leads to poorer alpha diversity.a remarkable number of genera 15 out of 40 associated with physiological and biochemical alterations in our study were changed by caf in the direction described by previous works intended to identify the changes that obesity and its related alterations induce in gut microbial communities summarized in supplementary table 2. these positive matches reinforce our findings and support the approach used herein to assess the cross talk between the gut microbiome and host metabolism.

at the same time the microbiota are a source of signaling metabolites including lipopolysaccharide lps a product of gram-negative bacteria that has been described as a key trigger of inflammation and its derived alterations 1319. the gut microbiome has gained much attention in obesity research 131820-22. studies in both preclinical models and human volunteers have shown that obesity and mets are associated with decreased gut microbial diversity and changes in the equilibrium of certain microbes at different taxonomic levels 1723. thus fluctuations in the population of four major phyla i.e.

despite the observation that initial obesity was related to increased firmicutes abundance and decreased bacteroidetes to firmicutes ratio 21-23 further studies have been unable to detect such changes in different human cohorts 2334-36. moreover our results agree with a recent study describing adecrease in firmicutes phylum in rats with obesity induced by different obesogenic diets 37. similarly obesity has been associated with decreased bacteroidetes 3839 but again we have not found evidence consistent with this previous observation.

caf animals presented enlarged pale livers with a higher lipid content than their counterparts table 1. analysis of plasma parameters table 1 revealed a clear hypertriglyceridemia accompanied by significantly increased free fatty acids and a statistical tendency towards increased glycemia in caf animals.

after analysis 15962 otus were detected and their changes between std and caf groups were quantified supplementary table 2. of these otus 5046 31 presented statistically significantdifferences when assessed by means of the false discovery rate with q-values under 0.05. analysis of the 27 phyla detected figure 1a revealed that caf induced a decrease in firmicutes q0.0003 but not in bacteroidetes q0.11 relative to the std-fed animals.

despite the increase in predominant phyla in animals fed caf the alpha diversity calculated either as the shannon index simpson index or observed otus figure 1b was significantly lower q0.002 in the caf group relative to the std group.

on the one hand it has been proposed that scfa might represent a salvage pathway of energy derived from non-digestible carbohydrates since scfa can be used as precursors of fatty acids by different tissues 52. even though in our experiment caf animals presented a decrease in firmicutes a reduction in scfa derived from fermentative bacteria would not have a relevant impact on energy balance since the energy provided by these metabolites is irrelevant when compared to the exacerbated energy intake induced by the hyperphagia associated with caf.

changes in gut microbiota were also associated with the different physiological effects of caf mainly increased adiposity and altered levels of plasma leptin and glycerol consistent with altered adipose tissue metabolism.

