as it is believed that mucosa-associated microbiota is more relevant to the pathogenesis of ibd than fecal microbiota we studied the association between intestinal mucosal fungi and intestinal inflammation in this study and uncovered a potential link between the intestinal fungi and ibd pathogenesis.in conclusion this study confirms an alteration of mucosal fungal community in uc patients compared with hs and puts forward the hypothesis that several specific fungal genera andor species play important roles in intestinal inflammation.

however the fungal shannon biodiversity index values were similar between the two groups figure 1c.taxonomy of the intestinal mucosal-associated fungal microbiota in uc patients and hswe analyzed the gut fungal microbiota in the mucosal samples from uc patients and hs based on its1-2 rdna sequencing.

pls- da score plots figure 2b and heatmaps figure 2c based on the core otus supplementary table 1 revealed that the colonic mucosal fungal community in the hs and uc patients could be classified into two different clusters which suggested that fungal compositions in uc patients were different from that in hs.shifts in the fungal communities in inflamed intestinal mucosatwo dominant phyla ascomycota and basidiomycota accounted for more than 99 of the population in all of the samples figure 3a-3b.

in addition the proportions of cladosporium nigrospora and sporobolomyces were similar between the two groups figures 4 and 5.correlation between intestinal fungal composition and mucosal inflammatory statuswe evaluated the intestinal fungal composition at the phylum and genus levels and analyzed its correlations with several mucosal inflammatory cytokines il-ib tnf-a inf-g il-6 il-17a and il-23 and baron and mayo scores in uc patients.

increased abundance of bacteria belonging to the bacteroidetes and proteobacteria phyla and decreasedabundance of bacteria belonging to the firmicutes phylum have been observed in ibd patients 5. growing evidence have suggested the hypothesis that intestinal dysbiosis result in the immune impairment associated with ibd 5 6. in addition to bacteria gut microbiota including fungi viruses bacteriophages and archaea also colonize the gastrointestinal tract and some of these communities are also markedly shifted in ibd 7 although their compositions have not been thoroughly examined.the fungi are a group of eukaryotic organisms that colonize the gut of mammals 6. although the number of fungi in the gut is much lower than that of bacteria the volume of a typical fungal cell is much larger than that of a typical bacterium approximately 100-fold larger 8. further fungi can provide many unique metabolic materials to bacteria 8. several studies have reported close relationships between intestinal fungi and human intestinal bowel disease.

of many immunocytes 22. these receptors further trigger the phagocytosis respiratory burst and intracellular signaling pathways causing the release of multiple pro-inflammatory cytokines following activation by the intestinal fungi 22 23. several pro-inflammatory cytokines il-ib tnf-a inf-g il-6 il-17a and il-23 24 are up-regulated in the gut of uc patients and were considered to be significantly associated with the severity of uc figure 6. thus we further investigated the association between intestinal fungi and mucosal pro-inflammatory cytokines as well as the clinical baron and mayo scores.the fungal composition is not significantly correlated with the intestinal inflammation at the phylum level.

when the fungi are studied at the genus and species levels we found that the genera wickerhamomyces mainly wickerhamomyces anomalus and penicillium were positively associated with the expression of tnf-a and il-17a respectively figure 7. two genera nigrospora mainly nigrospora sp casmbsef 29 and sterigmatomyces were positively associated with the clinical baron index andor mayo score figure 7. however sporobolomyces was negatively correlated with the expression of il-6 and the trametes was negatively correlated with the intestinal il-1b level and clinical baron score figure 7.figure 7 correlation between intestinal fungal composition and intestinal inflammatory status.

our previous studies showed that the fecal fungal microbiota is significantly different from its mucosal counterpart 12.in this study in order to investigate whether there is dysbiosis of the fungal microbiota in uc patients we analyzed the fungal microbiota of the colonic mucosa in both uc patients and hs using high-throughput sequencing technology.

after further exploration of the global structure of the fungal microbiota at the otu level 94 otus were identified in the hs whereas only 81 were found in uc patients reveling a tendency for lower diversity of the fungal microbiota in the inflammatory gut compared with that in the normal gut 16. the pls-da figure 2b and heat-map figure 2c based on the 19 core otus otus present in more than 33.3 of the uc andor hs mucosal samples revealed a marked separationfigure 2 fungal compositions vary in colonic mucosa between healthy subjects hs and uc patients.

the baron and mayo scores of uc patients were evaluated and the correlation between intestinal fungal composition and intestinal inflammatory status was analyzed.introductionulcerative colitis uc a major type of inflammatory bowel disease ibd 1 is a chronic inflammatory disorder that is limited to the colon and rectum.

in addition the association between intestinal fungi and intestinal inflammation was assessed to uncover the link between the fungal microbiota and ibd pathogenesis.resultscharacteristics of the study participantsin this study we collected mucosal samples from 14 uc patients 6 females and 8 males and 15 normal healthy controls 7 females and 8 males.

spearman correlation analysis was used to analyzethe correlation between intestinal fungal composition and intestinal inflammatory status.

the baron and mayo scores and the concomitant medications for uc patients are summarized in table 1. the detailed clinical characteristics of the uc patients and controls are summarized in table 2.quantification and diversity of the fungal microbiota in uc patients and controlswe used 18s rdna primer-amplified fragments to quantitatively analyze the fungal contents in the gut.

research paperalterations in the mucosa-associated fungal microbiota in patients with ulcerative colitisxinyun qiu1 jingjing ma1 chunhua jiao1 xiaqiong mao1 xiaojing zhao1 meijiao lu1 kai wang2 and hongjie zhang11department of gastroenterology first affliated hospital of nanjing medical university nanjing jiangsu 210029 china2institute of apicultural research chinese academy of agricultural sciences beijing 100093 chinacorrespondence to hongjie zhang email keywords ulcerative colitis intestinal fungi mucosal-associated microbiota mucosal inflammation high-throughput sequencingreceived june 08 2017accepted october 28 2017published november 20 2017copyright qiu et al.

however studies on the fungal composition in the gut especially adhering to the intestinal mucosa of uc patients is limited.results the number of fungi decreased significantly in inflamed mucosa compared with that in hs mucosa.

