Demographic disease nutritional and diabetic status of controls and patients with CP.correlation of Clostridium with serum vitamin B12 r  -0.38 0.041 and positive correlation of Shigella with plasma endotoxin level r 0.53 p 0.003.DiscussionIn this study we have shown significant association of intestinal dysbiosis with host metabolic functions includ- ing diabetes in patients with CP.The CP patients with DM had a significantly longer disease duration and higher degree of malnutrition compared to the CP patients without diabetes.

However the microbial taxonomic and functional abnormalities that were observed our patients with CP and diabetes were also observed in CP without diabetes though at a lesser magnitude but significantly higher than controls.

We believe these patients did have pancreatogenic diabetes since diabetes developed at a younger age mean27.7 yrs with a consistent lag period after the onset of CP and the C-peptide levels were low.

Of note CP and secondary diabetes develops earlier in India compared to that seen in the west.Treatment of CP is currently restricted to palliation of pain supplementation of pancreatic enzymes and control of diabetes.

OPENReceived 12 October 2016Accepted 26 January 2017Published 03 March 2017Altered intestinal microbiota in patients with chronic pancreatitis implications in diabetes and metabolic abnormalitiesSai Manasa Jandhyala1 A. Madhulika2 G. Deepika3 G. Venkat Rao4 D. Nageshwar Reddy5 Chivukula Subramanyam1 Mitnala Sasikala1  Rupjyoti Talukdar15Intestinal dysbiosis and its functional implications in chronic pancreatitis CP have not been elaborately studied.

We evaluated the taxonomic and functional alterations in intestinal microbiota in 30 well- characterised patients with CP 16 without 14 with diabetes and 10 healthy controls.

The patients with CP and diabetes had significantly longer disease duration and greater degree of malnutrition.There was increase in plasma endotoxin concentrations from controls to CP non-diabetics to CP diabetics.

We also observed increase in the FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio in CP patients without and with diabetes.

Our results have important implications for future studies exploring mechanistic insights on secondary diabetes in CP.Chronic pancreatitis CP is characterised by abdominal pain reduction in digestive enzyme secretion pancre- atic exocrine insufficiency and endocrine dysfunctiondiabetes DM.

Individual comparisons of diversity indices between healthy controls CP with and CP without diabetes are shown in Supplementary Table S3.

