2014. women undergoing surgery for stress urinary incontinence have been shown to have increased urinary bacterial diversity and this diversity has been shown to be affected by hormone status there were differences between premenopausal women and postmenopausal women with or without current exogenous hormone use body mass index and the symptoms of stress urinary incontinence thomas-white et al.

they were enrolled at the endocrinology department of the first affiliated hospital school of medicine zhejiang university from june 2015 to january 2016. written informed consent was obtained from the participants prior to enrollment and approval for the study was obtained from the ethics committee of the first affiliated hospital reference number 295. the following exclusion criteria were applied a urinary tract infection uti in the previous month antibiotic use in the previous 3 months inability to complete the questionnaire menstruation urinary incontinence known anatomical abnormalities of the urinary tract e.g.

in the dmhlp cohort the levels of 15 and 29 genera were positively correlated with triglyceridestable 1  characteristics of the dm dmht dmhlp and dmhthlp cohortsa.a dm diabetes mellitus hlp hyperlipidemia ht hypertension na not applicable.b independent t-test and pearson's chi-square test were used to test for significant differences p  0.05 in each variable between the four cohorts.c the population with urinary tract infections over the previous year and positive for nitrites came from general population who have not been diagnosed with urinary tract infection in the last month and had not been previously diagnosed with urinary incontinence.represents a significant difference between the dm and dmht cohorts y represents a significant difference between the dm and dmhthlp cohorts represents significantdifference between the dmht and dmhlp cohorts and th represents a significant difference between the dmhlp and dmhthlp cohorts.table 2  richness and diversity estimators in the dm dmht dmhlp and dmhthlp cohortsa.a ace abundance-based coverage estimators dm diabetes mellitus hlp hyperlipidemia ht hypertension otu operational taxonomic units.b the operational taxonomic units otus were defined based on a similarity threshold of 97 independent t-test was used to test for significant differences p  0.05 in each variable between the four cohorts.

the aim of this study was to characterize the urinary microbiota in women with type 2 diabetes mellitus only and those with diabetes plus hypertension andor hyperlipidemia and to explore whether the composition of the urinary microbiota is affected by fasting blood glucose blood pressure and blood lipids.

the insights from this study could be used to develop microbiota-based treatment for comorbid conditions including urinary tract infections in those with diabetes.keywords type 2 diabetes mellitus hypertension hyperlipidemia lactobacillus proteobacteria urinary microbiotaintroductionthe number of people around the world with diabetes has risen from 108 million in 1980 to 422 million in 2014 world health organization 2016. type 2 diabetic mellitus t2dm accounts for approximately 90-95 of cases of diabetes rubino 2008. up to 75 of the adult population with diabetes has hypertension and approximately 52.8 of those with diabetes have hyperlipidemia de sereday et al.

2012.the occurrence of t2dm may also be associated with changes in urinary microbiota profiles as having diabetes can change the microenvironment of the urinary tract in which bacterium live.

2016 which can cause high levels of proteinuria gordillo and spitzer 2009. thus the co- occurrence of hypertension andor hyperlipidemia with t2dm can affect the composition of urine which can then affect the microenvironment of the urinary tract and consequently alter bacterial growth.so far no study has explored the relationship between the urinary microbiota and comorbidities in those with t2dm.

we speculate that the composition changes in urine caused by comorbid hypertension hyperlipidemia and urinary tract infections in female t2dm patients can alter the urinary microbiota profile.

we have found that some nutrients intake were weak or mild positively or negatively associated with urinary microbiota r  0.7 p  0.05 tables s6 s7.discussionhypertension appears to increase urinary bacterial diversity as those in the dmht and dmhthlp cohorts had larger numbers of reads andor otus compared to those in the dm and dmhlp cohorts.

we would enroll participants who has the same amounts of food and supplements intake in our future study to rule out the effects of food supplements and medicine intake on urinary microbiota.conclusionsthis is the first study to investigate the association between urinary microbiota profiles and comorbid hypertension and hyperlipidemia in those with t2dm.

therefore it is important to further investigate the mechanisms behind the association of urinary microbiota with hypertension hyperlipidemia and urinary tract infections as this may be useful for developing microbiota-based treatment to control hypertension hyperlipidemia and bladder infections in those with diabetes.author contributionsll ww yx and fl conceived and designed the study.

2016. does the urinary microbiome play a role in urgency urinary incontinence and its severity front.

2014. interplay between bladder microbiota and urinary antimicrobial peptides mechanisms for human urinary tract infection risk and symptom severity.

2014. the female urinary microbiome a comparison of women with and without urgency urinary incontinence.

2015. the female urinary microbiome in urgency urinary incontinence.

