5-fu treatment remarkably decreased the relative abundance of firmicutes proteobacteria and cyanobacteria at phyla level in feces p  0.05 or p  0.01. however 5-fu increased thefigure 4  5-fu activated nf-kb and mapk signaling pathways in colonic tissues.

more information about gut microbiota in cecumcontents and feces could be found in supplementary data tables s1-12.disturbed gut microbiota was involved in body weight loss and colon shortening in 5-fu induced colonic mucositisas shown in figure 7a from day 4 fecal transplantation significantly rescued the body weight loss of mice induced by 5- fu treatment p  0.05. furthermore at day 7 fecal microbiotatransplantation prevented the shortening of colon induced by 5- fu treatment figures 7bc p  0.01. in another experiment to assess the effect of fecal microbiota on 5-fu induced colonic mucositis the vancomycin-pretreated mice were transplanted with feces from control and 5-fu group mice respectively.

taken together our study demonstrated that gut microbiota was actively involved in the pathological process of 5-fu induced intestinal mucositis suggesting potential attenuation of 5-fu induced intestinal mucositis by manipulating gut microbiota homeostasis.keywords gut microbiota 5-fluorouracil intestinal mucositis inflammatory chemokinescytokines fecal transplantationintroductiongastrointestinal microbiota plays an important role in the maintenance of human health figlewicz 2008 zhao 2013 patel et al.

2009 to induce mucositis the 5-fu group mice were intraperitoneally administered with 5-fu 50 mgkg once daily for 3 days.

both 5-fu group and 5-fufeces group mice were injected intraperitoneally with 5-fu 50 mgkgday for 3 days.

meanwhile severe diarrhea was found in 5-fu group mice from day 5 to day 7 figure 1b p  0.001. at day 7 severe bloody stool was found in 5-fu treated mice figure 1c.

by contrast the colon length of 5-fu treated mice was significantly shortened figures 1ef p  0.001 and the cecum of 5-fu treated mice seemed to be smaller figure 1e.

moreover 5-fu treatment injured mucosal epithelium and disrupted crypt-villus structures which was accompanied with enhance cellular infiltration he staining and neutrophil mpo staining infiltration figures 1gh.5-fu altered inflammatory cytokine and chemokine profilesalthough previous studies exposed the alteration of several inflammatory factors in 5-fu induced intestinal mucositis justino et al.

in terms of mrna expression of the cytokineschemokines 5-fu treatment induced the mrnafigure 1  5-fu induced mucositis and colon shortening in mice.

however in terms of tight junction proteins 5-fu decreased mrna and protein expression of occludin p  0.001 p  0.001. but 5-fu increased the protein level of jam-a and zo-1 p  0.001 and p  0.01.5-fu activated mapk and nf-kb pathway signalingmapk and nf-kb pathways are closely associated with inflammation park et al.

as shown in figure 4 5-fu enhanced the phosphorylation of erk12 jnk p38 mapk ikb and nf- kb as well as the protein expression of inos in the colon p  0.001 or p  0.01. moreover 5-fu treatment increased the expression of activated nf-kb in the intestinal epithelial cells figure 4e.

sequencing of 16s rrna gene v3-v4 region of gut microbiota showed that 5-fu greatly decreased the community richness of microbiota in both feces and cecum contents compared with the controls figure 5a p  0.001. it significantly decreased the shannon diversity in cecum contents but not that in feces of mice figures 5bc p  0.01. unweighted unifrac pcoa analysis demonstrated that there was a significant difference between control and 5-fu treated mice regarding beta-diversity at otus level figures 5de.

these results implicated that disturbed gut microbiota contributed to the induction of intestinal mucositis in 5-fu treated mice.discussionalthough previous studies have indicated that gut microbiota plays an important role in 5-fu induced gastrointestinal mucositis stringer et al.

2012. in agreement with the report in our study enhanced phosphorylation of nf- kb and mapk pathway molecules were also found in colonic tissue of 5-fu treated mice indicating their active participation in regulating expression of tight junction proteins and colonic proinflammatory cytokineschemokines in the pathogenesis of 5-fu induced colonic mucositis.disturbed gut microbiota in either diversity or abundance has been found to play an important role in the pathological development of inflammatory bowel diseases juste et al.

7455. doi disturbed homeostasis of gut microbiota has been suggested to be closely associated with 5-fluorouracil 5-fu induced mucositis.

