Gram-positive cocci and methanogenic archaea such as Methanobrevibacter smithii and Methano- sphaera stadtmanae.23The initial colonization of infant microbiota is deter- mined by several factors that is physiology and anatomy of the intestinal tract bile salts peristalsis pH and im- munomodulation.4 In addition the composition of micro- biota is dependent on the mode of delivery vaginal delivery vs. caesarean section feeding regime breast- feeding vs. formula feeding and exposure to antimicro- bials.56 The microbiota at birth is less diverse and the phyla Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria are predominant but as the age progresses with the intake of solid food the mi-crobiota gets diversified and other phyla such as Firmicutesand Bacteroidetes also appear.7Perturbation in the intestinal microbiota may occur due to changes in diet diseases i.e.

Since C. perfringens is a member of resident microbiota this was expected as this supports the findings of Samb-Ba et al.35 showing that C. perfringens is the most commonly found bacterium in individuals between 5 and 20 years of age with 32.7 and without 53.5 diarrhea.difficile however was rarely found in either of the evaluated groups Table 2.

The ad- ministration of antimicrobial agents decreases bacterial colonization and dramatically modifies intestinal micro- biota as a consequence antibiotic-resistant microorganisms may increase in numbers and this disturbance can occasion antibiotic-associated diarrhea.8-10The exposure of intestinal microbiota to antimicrobials can reduce its microbial diversity to a variable extent depending on antibiotic spectrum dosage duration of treatment route of administration and the pharmacokinetic and pharmacody- namic properties of the drug.1112 However the microbiota is relatively resilient and returns to the original state within several weeks postantibiotic therapy but sometimes the re- silience may not be complete and depending on the indi- viduals may result in an altered microbiome.13-15The consequence of exposure to antibiotics is the emer- gence of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria in the commensal1Anaerobe Laboratory Department of Microbiology Institute of Biomedical Sciences University of Sao Paulo Sao Paulo Brazil.2Campinas State University Campinas Brazil.3Faculty of Medicine Institute of Children University of Sao Paulo Sao Paulo Brazil.These authors contributed equally to this work.56species.

Microorganisms and Species-Specific 16S rRNA Gene-Targeted Oligonucleotides Used in This StudyStrains used to the standard curve construction B. fragilis ATCC 25285 B. vulgatus ATCC 8482 P. distasonis ATCC 8503 P. merdae ATCC 43184 C. perfringens ATCC 13124 C. difficile VPI 10468 Bifidobacterium bifidum ATCC 1696 E. coli ATCC 25922 and M. smithii ATCC 35061.Invitrogen and 1 ng DNA.

E. coli C. perfringens M. smithii and phylum Firmicutes levels in control girls compared with the antibiotic-treated girls  p  0.05 there was difference infragilis C. perfringens and phylum Firmicutes levels between control and antibiotic-treated boys.

90859-904.Jernberg C. S. Lofmark C. Edlund and J.K. Jansson.

98229-238.Rousseau C. F. Levenez C. Fouquray J. Dore' A. Col- lignon and P. Lepage.

by Million et al.24 In this study PCR showed much more sensitivity than culture to detect differ- ences in B. fragilis C. perfringens and E. coli.The species of genus Bifidobacterium are commonly found in the intestinal microbiota.

This obser- vation was similar to that reported by Nakano et al.32 and Boente et al.33The Clostridium species by interacting with other mem- bers of microbiota play a crucial role in intestinal homeo- stasis such as in biosynthesis of essential nutrients vitamins K and B12 bile biotransformation and carbohydrate deg- radation.34 In this study Clostridium butyricumClostridium beijerinckii were found in both antibiotic-treated 25.8 and control 26.6 children and C. perfringens 26.6 was more prevalent in the children without antibiotic therapy.

The aim of the current study was to evaluate the impact of antibiotic therapy on intestinal microbiota of children between 3 and 12 years of age.

