since rumen microbiota plays a key role in adaptation to a new ration we hypothesized that the effects of a transition from a tmr- to a pasture-based ration observed in other performance rumen and metabolic variables would also be mirrored in the different rumen archaea and bacteria communities.

2016a.sample collectionsample collection took place at three points in time at the beginning of the trial tmr-only wk1 during the transitional period pg being 4-6 days on a full-grazing ration wk 5 and at the end of the trial pg being 6 weeks on a full-grazing ration wk 10. all animals were sampled within 3 days of the particular week between 0730 and 1430 h. firstly a sample of approximately 200 g rumen solid content was collected at the height of the rumen fistula aperture pool sample of grab- samples collected from cranial to caudal in the upper half of the rumen fiber mat.

a large part of the rumen prokaryote species remained unaltered upon transition to pasture and exhibited a strong host influence supporting the hypothesis that the rumen microbiota consists of a core and avariable microbiota.

however further data on time required for adaptation of rumen microbiota during the gradual transition from a tmr to a pasture-based ration and the prokaryotes playing a key role during this nutritional change are lacking.aside the particle- and liquid-associated a third rumen bacterial community has been described.

this was also mirrored in the development of different other rumen increase of vfa absorption capacity and rumen papillae surface area performance stabilization of milk yield and increase in bw and metabolic serum non-esterified fatty acid concentrations variables.

thereafter a 250 ml rumen fluid sample wascollected from the ventral site of the rumen saccus ventralis using a manual pump.

subsequently the total rumen content was evacuated transferred into insulated barrels and the rumen was washed twice 2 x 10 l water 39c.

the rumen papillae were then collected at the most ventral site of the ventral rumen sac saccus ventralis 5 cm adjacent to the pila coronaria ventralis using a biopsy forceps lloyd-davis biopsy forceps 35 cm zepf instruments tuttlingen germany.

regarding rumen microbiota research different authors have noted that future studies should focus on the characterization of the functional properties of the rumen microbial ecosystem aside the different microbial species morgavi et al.

we observed alterations in different production metabolic and rumen variables all pointing toward a decreased rumen fermentation activity in the first weeks on a full-grazing ration due to a decreased dmi.

however in future trials weekly or even daily sampling should be involved to monitor microbial changes in the rumen upon a ration change more closely and to investigate the delay with which metabolic and production variables follow alterations in the rumen microbiota.similar to de menezes et al.

since the comparisons are performed within sample types these results are not affected by the different dna extraction protocols.the effect of the individual cowdifferent studies have shown that the cow itself as an individual has a significant influence on its rumen microbiota most likely through behavioral and physiological processes such as rumination salivation absorption and passage of vfa in the rumen thereby controlling the ruminal chemistry sadet-bourgeteau et al.

288 85-91. doi hackmann t. 2015. time required for adaptation of rumen fermentation and the rumen microbiome.

95 5024-5034. doi russell j. b. and rychlik j. l. 2001. factors that alter rumen microbial ecology.science 292 1119-1122. doi sadet s. martin c. meunier b. and morgavi d. p. 2007. pcr-dgge analysis reveals a distinct diversity in the bacterial population attached to the rumen epithelium.

rumen microbiota adaptability is a key feature of ruminant survival strategy.

