chinae-mail key words gastritis microbiota prevotella nitric oxidecancer 56. gastric cancer develops from a multifactorial multistep inflammatory process progressing through the stages of superficial gastritis atrophic gastritis intestinal metaplasia and dysplasia before the development of gastric cancer 7. at the atrophic gastritis stage the secretion of essen- tial substances such as hydrochloric acid pepsin and intrinsic factor are impaired resulting in a neutralized stomach envi- ronment.

in turn many other bacterial species can colonize the new environment leading to gastric microbiota overgrowth as the gastritis progress and low acid production 89. atrophic gastritis is considered to be an antecedent to intestinal meta- plasia and gastric cancer 1011 thus exploring the bacterialfactors that propel the progress of atrophic gastritis may be helpful for elucidating the mechanisms underlying gastric cancer development.in previous studies infection with h. pylori was reported to closely correlate with the other bacteria present in stomach 12 and clinical observations have found that atro- phic gastritis without h. pylori is more likely to develop into gastric cancer than cases with h. pylori an observation that has been supported by animal studies.

pylori infection status 8. moreover other research has shown that feeding germ-free transgenic mice with artifi- cial microbiota accelerated the occurrence of cancer 6. noticeably a study by engstrand and lindberg found that the changes in the microbiota in individuals with atrophic gastritis resemble those seen in gastric cancer 5. thus the absence of h. pylori in atrophic gastritis may play a crucial role in gastric carcinogenesis thus the alterations in the composition of gastric microbiota and its interaction with host cells require further studies.however there has been little study on the characterization of the absence of h. pylori in the progress of gastritis.

all the analysis of microbiota were performed as described in materials and methods.to 1. in healthy individuals the gut microbiome functions as a symbiont that can offer protection from invading pathogens and prevent tumorigenesis 13. however this commensal community exists in a careful balance that if disrupted enters dysbiosis and can contribute to host disease processes including the development of cancer 14-18. the stomach harbors a large number of bacteria and especially at the atrophic gastritis stage the neutralized stomach can be colonized by many other bacterial species in addition topylori 4. a study by engstrand and lindberg found that gastric microbiota overgrowth with the progress of gastritis to severe atrophic gastritis which had low acid produc- tion and no h. pylori present.

to explore the role of the bacteria absence of h. pylori in gastric carci- nogenesis in the current study we compared the microbiota of clinically collected h. pylori-free gastric fluids from 30 patients with non-atrophic gastritis n and 22 patients with severe atrophic gastritis s. we estimated the bacterial loads in the n and s groups by colony counting in culture agar as well as by measuring the concentration of the extracted dna.

the results showed a significant increase in bacterial load in patients with atrophic gastritis in comparison to non-atrophic gastritis.

in the current study we investigated the variation in gastric micro- biota using gastric fluids from 30 patients with non-atrophic gastritis n and 22 patients with chronic atrophic gastritis s. our results suggest that the microbiota in gastric fluids might influence gastric epithelial cell physiology and gastric carcinogenesis.materials and methodspatient samples collection and cell culture.

gastric fluids newly extracted from 30 non-atrophic gastritis and 22 atro- phic gastritis patients by endoscopy were obtained from qilu hospital of shandong university jinan china.

compared with non-chronic gastritis the bacterial load in chronic atrophic gastritis was significantly increased suggesting that there was an association between the amount of bacteria and the severity of the gastritis.diversity of gastric microbiota.

3b-d the chao 1 value of the microbiota in atrophic gastritis was similar to that in non-atrophic gastritis n group339.82 s group340.72 p0.9749 fig.

shannon's and simpson's diversity indices in atrophic gastritis 4.70 and 0.88 respectively were slightly lower than those in non-atrophic gastritis 4.96 and 0.93respectively.

although the most predominant phylum varied between individuals only one phylum bacteroidetes was enriched in the non-atrophic gastritis group and had significant difference to the atro- phic gastritis groups p0.013 fig.

b the chao 1 c and d shannon's and simpson's diversity indices in atrophic gastritis were not statistically significant different to that in non-atrophic gastritis.

they also discovered that the changes in the microbiota in individuals with atrophic gastritis resembled those seen in gastric cancer 5. thus ithas been postulated that some microbial species colonizing the stomach may further promote gastritis genotoxic damage and the progression to gastric cancer 61920 though there is considerable variation in the most abundant bacterial species between individuals.the stomach plays an important role in maintaining gastro- intestinal health acting as a barrier against ingested infectious disease agents of the lower gastrointestinal tract 21. a previous study found that there was no statistical significant difference between the operational taxonomic units otus of gastric fluid and mucosa and the mean of the otus was higher in gastric fluid than that in mucosa.

a phylum bacteroidetes was enriched in the non-atrophic gastritis group and had significant difference to the atrophic gastritis groups.

