found that an axenic mouse model of ad without gut microbiota exhibited a drastic reductionof cerebral af3 amyloid pathology when compared to controls with intestinal microbiota which suggests a microbial involvement in the development of ad pathology 27. in addition friedland proposed the potential pathways of molecular mimicry involving the gut microbiota in the initiation and development of neurodegenerative diseases 28. more mechanis- tic studies are needed to elucidate the molecular basis underlying the association between gut microbiota alteration and ad.moreover in addition to the concept of gut micro- biota as a potential therapeutic target as discussed in many studies 29 30 it has been proposed that gut microbiota alteration in ad will help better eluci- date the pharmacology of many agents.

however for the appps1 mice by comparing the shannon and simpson indices from the 3- 6- and 8-months old groups shannon 6.125.59 and 5.39 p  0.01 simpson 0.97 0.95 and 0.94 p  0.02 it was found that the alpha diver- sity of the appps1 mice microbiota decreased with increased age while this trend was not observed in the wt mice groups.figure 4 shows the 20 most abundant bacte- rial families in the gut microbiota of appps1 and c57bl6 mice in the 3- 6- to 8-months old groups.

further comparative analysis found a new species cori- obacteriaceae significantly more abundant in 6- and 8-month-old appps1 mice than that in the age-matched wt mice at the family level and ruminococcus being significantly abundant in wtmice than in appps1 mice at the genus level.in addition to explore the effect of age we com- pared the gut microbiota abundance in the three groups of appps1 mice.

in comparison prevotella abundance in wt mice was significantly higher than appps1 mice.the newly emerged concept of bidirectional microbiota-gut-brain axis in recent years should mainly account for the association between the gut microbiota alteration and ad 21 22. increasing evi- dence supports that gut microbiota may exert effects on the central nervous system via neural neuroen- docrine and neuroimmune mechanisms 23-26. harach et al.

in view of the expected high concentration of polyphenolic compounds in the gut tract after sup- plementation it was previously proposed that gut microbiota regulation by polyphenols may account for an important pathway underlying their therapeutic benefits 31.in conclusion this is the first study on the composi- tion of the whole fecal microbiome of ad transgenic mice which suggests that histological and behav- ioral manifestations of appps1 mice correlate with the specific gut microbiome state.

with the aim to keep as many microbiota taxa as possible for meaningful comparisons we then identified the gut microbiome taxa with mean abundance all higher or lower in the three groups of appps1 mice than the age-matched wt mice groups with significant difference p  0.05 respectively at the family and genus levels with the threshold of mean relative abundance 0.0001. it was found that helicobacter- aceae and desulfovibrionaceae mean abundance in appps1 mice was significantly higher than that in wt mice at the family level 2.13 versus 0.09 and0.47 versus 0.12. at the genus level odoribacter andfig.

more human studies are warranted to explore the potential of gut microbiota as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic target for ad.keywords 16s ribosomal rna alzheimer's disease appps1 mice gut microbiotaintroductionas the most common form of dementia among the elderly alzheimer's disease ad is expected to have rising prevalence with the aging demograph- ics of human society worldwide 1-3. the clinical features of ad including progressive loss of mem- ory cognitive function and behavior impairment1these authors contributed equally to this work.correspondence to prof. hong-fang ji shandong provincial research center for bioinformatic engineering and technique school of life sciences shandong university of technology zibo 255049 p.r.

86 5332782220 e-mailmake this chronic disease a great threat to human health and quality of life 4-8. despite tremendous efforts devoted to ad drug discovery in the past decades there is presently no agent exhibiting pro- found disease-modifying effects.in recent years an exponentially increasing num- ber of studies have shown that alterations in the gut microbiota are associated with numerous dis- eases including not only gastrointestinal diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease and irritable bowel syndrome but also many metabolic diseases such as obesity diabetes and chronic liver diseases 9-14. thus gut microbiota has been proposed to be an attractive target in preventing and treatingissn 1387-28771735.00 c 2017 - ios press and the authors.

pharmacol ther 130 202-212.vassallo g mirijello a ferrulli a antonelli m landolfi r gasbarrini a addolorato g 2015 review article alcohol and gut microbiota - the possible role of gut microbiota mod- ulation in the treatment of alcoholic liver disease.

the present study aims to compare the gut microbiota in appps1 transgenic mice of ad and c57bl6 wild-type wt mice by pyrosequencing the v3 and v4 regions of the bacterial 16s ribosomal rna genes.

the 3- 6- and 8-month-old appps1 and wt mice were used to explore the effects of age on the gut microbiota.

in this study we conducted comparative analyses on the gut microbiota of appsweps1de9 appps1 mice a well-established mouse model of familial ad and that of wild-type wt c57bl6 mice.

although a possible link between gut microbiota alteration and ad has been proposed 17-20 no previous study has com- pared the composition of the whole fecal microbiome between appps1 and wt mice.

in the present study through pyrosequencing the v3 and v4 regions of the bacterial 16s ribosomal rna genes we compared the gut microbiota in appps1 transgenic mice of ad and wt mice.

third the microbiota diversity of appps1 mice decreased with increased age.

