the expression levels of the target genes in the control samples were set to 1.impact on selenium concentrationdecreased selenium levels were detected in the sbp2 and selenop gene-silenced ticks but the result was only statistically significant for the selelnop knockdowns p 0.04 d. the selenium level decreased in the sbp2- and selenop-silenced ticks to 0.073 mgg and 0.053 mgg respectively from 0.105 mgg in the dslacz ticks d.impact on tick microbiota colonizationthe abundance of r. parkeri was unchanged in the gut tissues and salivary glands of the sbp2 and selenop knockdown ticks a. the fle load remained unchanged in the sbp2 knockdown ticks but increased significantly in the selneop-silenced gut tis- sues p 0.01 while the salivary gland load remained unchanged p 0.09 b. the cmm load increased significantly in the sbp2-silenced gut tissues p 0.009 and the selenop-silenced gut tissues p 0.01 but remained unchanged in the salivary glands c. however the overall bacterial load estimated via 16s rrna gene analysis showed significantly increased levels in the sbp2- p 0.01 and selenop-silenced midguts p 0.02 d. intriguingly the total bacterial load significantly increased in thewe functionally characterized tick sbp2 and selenop using a reverse genetics approach rnai in a. maculatum a known vector of r. parkeri.

se- lenium concentration changes were also observed in i. scapularis and a. americanum c. selenium concentrations in the partially fed i. scapularis ticks showed an approximate 7-fold in- crease whereas a. americanum showed a 5-fold increase c compared with the unfed controls.sbp2 and selenop silencingimpact on the tick selenoproteomea significant depletion of sbp2 transcript levels 93 in midguts and salivary glands 90 was achieved in the partially blood fed ticks a. the selenop selenos selenok thioredoxin reductase txnrd2 selenon selenot and msrb1 selx tran- script levels were depleted in the ticks when sbp2 was knocked down while sephs2 and selenoo transcripts were significantly upregulated and eefsec and selenom remained unaffected a. interestingly catalase expression levels remained un- changed despite significant upregulation of superoxide dismutase cuzn-sod in the sbp2 knockdown tissues a.the selenop transcript levels were depleted by 96 and 97 in both tick midgut and salivary glands respectively upon gene silencing b. a significant increase in sephs2 sbp2 and cu zn-sod transcript levels was observed in the selenop-silenced midgut tissues b. selenoo and txnrd2 were also signifi- cantly upregulated in tick salivary glands b. selenos tran- scripts in both tick tissues mrsb1 selx in midguts and catalase in salivary glands were all significantly depleted following selenop knockdown b.immunodetection of sbp2 and selenop in the knockdownsthe selenop antibody cross-reacted with a tick protein of z30 kda in both the non-treated and irrelevant dsrna-lacz- treated ticks while no cross reactions occurred with the dssbp2 or dsselenop-treated ticks b. the anti-sbp2 antibody being polyclonal did not yield single bands but produced three bands of varying intensities from 58 to 100 kda across the samples c. the three intense bands from the no-treatment controls were fainter in the dslacz knockdown except for the 58 kda one.

the selenium concentrations increased after the blood meal in both rp- about 3-fold and rp larva about 7-fold p 0.016 a. there were no unfed nymphal tick samples but in adults after the blood meal both rp- 2-fold and rp 1.3-fold males showed increased selenium concentrations b. the selenium levels in the blood-fed fe- male ticks increased by 7-fold in the absence of r. parkeri p 0.0004 and 16-fold when infected p 0.0004 compared with the unfed control b. the maximum selenium concen- tration in ticks reached 0.3 mg per g in the adult female ticks.

on the n-terminal side up to the poly histidine region of sequences represented by black borders with many his- tidine residues only one selenocysteine residue was observed.blood meal and pathogen-induced tick gene expressionthe transcriptional activity of sbp2 became depleted after a blood meal in midgut tissues and salivary glands except for the midgut tissues at 8 days post infestation dpi which had a similar transcriptional level to that of the unfed stage a. the tran- scriptional activities of selenop and selenophosphate synthetase sephs2 diminished after the blood meal in the slow and fast feeding stages bec whereas in the midgut tissues selenop was up regulated 3-fold in the slow feeding stage but diminished later b. contrastingly the transcriptional activity of sephs2 was up regulated 40 fold in the midgut tissues of the fast feeding stage c. the transcriptional expression of sbp2 selenop and sephs2 were estimated in the r. parkeri-infected tick tissues to assess the tick response to pathogen infection d. in both tissue types sbp2 expression was upregulated significantly during the r. parkeri infections with a 2-fold increase in the midgut tissues p  0.005 and a 5-fold increase in the salivary glands p  0.005. similarly the presence of a rickettsial infection increased selenop expression by 2- and 6-fold in the midgut and salivary gland tissues p  0.05 respectively whereas the sephs2 transcript level increased 3-fold in the midgut tissues d.blood meal and pathogen induced selenium concentrations in tickswe did not observe significant differences in the selenium levels between the rp and rp-ticks except in eggs p 0.009 whereas the selenium level increased significantly after a blood meal in allfig.

d bacterial load in midguts and salivary glands in the dsrna-injected ticks as determined by 16s rrna analysis.depletion of selenop and this correlated with the significant depletion of selenop and sbp2 and in the selenop-silenced ticks b. the selenop epitope recognized in ticks further confirmed the presence of this protein in ticks but we cannot rule out the possibility that the ticks may contain an incomplete sequence.

functional characterization of sbp2 a gene that plays a critical role in selenoprotein synthesis and selenop a gene known to play role in selenium transport yielded important information about their effects on tick fecundity pathogen replication trans- ovarial transmission and the overall selenium concentration inside ticks.computationally we showed the presence of sequence conser- vation in tick sbp2 and selenop and their respective homologs in vertebrates and invertebrates using multiple sequence alignments and the phylogenetic relationships among them figs s1e4.

importantly the selenium level in the immature and mature tick stages increased significantly after a blood meal but the selenium level decreased in ticks after the sbp2 and selenop knockdowns.

transcriptional gene expression for a sbp2 b selenop and c sephs2 was estimated in unfed ticks slow feeding 4- day ticks and fast feeding 8-day ticks in adult female a. maculatum.

likewise tick selenop along with tick sbp2 maintains tick selenium levels via their roles in selenoprotein synthesis.competing intereststhe authors have declared that no competing interests exist.acknowledgementswe thank dr. paul r copeland for the generous gift of sbp2 and selenop antibodies.

sec incorporation requires the presence of complex machinery comprising sec-trna elongation factor eef- sec sec insertion sequence secis-binding protein 2 sbp2 selenophosphate synthetase 2 phosphoseryl-trna kinase secp43 sec synthase and a cis-acting stem-loop structure known as thesecis element in the 30-untranslated region .at both the cellular and physiological levels the functional role of selenium has yet to be investigated in blood-sucking arthropods such as ixodid ticks.

the reduction of r. parkeri levels in sbp2- and selenop- deficient tick salivary glands was likely compensated for by higher level of symbionts such as cmm fle and others thus resulting in an increased bacterial load in the sbp2- and selenop-silenced tick salivary glands .depletion of sbp2 selenop and selenium possibly caused the reduced egg laying we observed in the ticks lower fecundity a result similar to that reported for drosophila feeding on a selenium- deficient diet .

simi- larly two other bands except the one at 58 kda remained faint in the sbp2 and selenop knocked-down tick tissues c. the gapdh protein level across the tick tissues was lower in the dssbp2-and dsselenop-injected female ticks than in the no- treatment and dslacz-injected females d.impact on oxidative stresscontrary to our expectations we did not see an increase in lipid peroxidation for r. parkeri p 14 0.19. likewise no lipid peroxida- tion was detected after silencing tick sbp2 p 14 0.09 and selenop p 14 0.35 fig.s5.selenop-silenced salivary glands p 14 0.03 d.3.4.6.

a progressively higher de- mand for selenoproteins occurred in the tick gut tissues via increased expression levels of sephs2 and sbp2 after selenop depletion.the protective functions of sbp2 and selenop against oxidative and lipid peroxidation provides a redox balance in ticks  .

we propose that arthropods like ticks may be controlled using a conserved motif in sbp2 or selenop as a vaccine target.in conclusion our data provide important insights into the role of sbp2 in tick selenoproteome synthesis tick fecundity repro- ductive fitness egg development and transovarial transmission ofr.

selenium levels across a embryonic and immature stages of blood fed and unfed uf ticks b adult fed and uf male and female amblyomma maculatum ticks with th or without - rickettsia parkeri infection before and after a blood meal.

