proponents of probiotics cite studies revealing a decreased incidence of surgical site infections decreased anastomotic leaks decreased inci- dence of c. difficile increased gut activity and decreased incidence of ventilator associated pneumonia.

surgeons should evaluate the patient's risk for aki and discuss this risk with the patient avoid renal insults maximize cardiac output maintain euvolemia avoid fluid overload use an aki care bundle since early detection and management of aki will improve outcomes and recognize that chronic kidney disease and proteinuria are risk factors.peri-operative glycemic controlhyperglycemia increases the risk of surgical site infection increases the length of stay and morbidity and mortality.

among the options of no prep mechanical prep or oral and mechanical oral and mechanical reduced the ssi rate by approximately 50 with only a 3 incidence of c. difficile infection.

dr. zmora cautioned placing too much weight on population- based data sets andor outcome-based research such as that reported in the acs nsqip 2012 where mechanical bowel prep plus oral antibiotics were associated with decreased surgical site infection and anastomotic leak as compared to no prep.

miralax with oral neomycin and met- ronidazole are recommended as erythromycin causes nausea and re- duced compliance.tips for reducing methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus mrsa surgical infectionsmrsa infections should be categorized into community acquired versus hospital acquired because hospital acquired mrsa infections are much more drug resistant than those infections that are community acquired.

fmt has a 90 success rate in treating refrac- tory c. difficile infections and has an outstanding safety profile.thromboembolic diseasedoacs and noacs refer to direct oral anticoagulants and novel oral anticoagulants respectively.

physicians who suffer from burnout encounter increased medical errors decreased quality and safety for patients and decreased patient satisfaction.

there is no consensus on training prior to surgery but there is a window of opportunity as the av- erage time prior to elective surgery is approximately 30 days.oral antibiotic bowel prep improves colorectal surgical outcomesrecent studies have shown higher rates of oral antibiotic bowel preparation is associated with lower surgical site infection ssi re- duced stay in hospital and reduced readmissions after colon surgery.

for patients at risk a pre-operative blood glucose prior to surgery in the holding area should be obtained.

he cited heavily from his 2003 annals of surgery article which reported his randomized controlled trial comparing mechanical bowel prep with no mechanical bowel prep.

an observational study demonstrat- ing the relevance of the individual microbiome noted an increased risk of clostridium difficile in patients who occupied the hospital room of a preceding patient who received antibiotics.

there remains an increased risk of gi bleeding with dabigatran as compared to warfarin but it is equivalent in the preven- tion of venous thromboemboli and pulmonary emboli.

these direct xa inhibitors are effective against deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli without an increased bleeding risk.

in obese people low molecular weight heparin affords better venous thromboembolism prophylaxis than unfractionated heparin without increased bleeding risk.

mrsa infections are challenging in mrsa high risk popula- tions those presenting to the hospital from a nursing home patients taking antibiotics immunosupressed patients and those with a prior staphylococcal infection.

