to assess differences in the way that each strain responded to treatment we queried for genes that changed significantly in response to treat- ment in only one strain .in response to blood feeding transcript abundance of 279 genes changed significantly in rock strain female midguts but not in sing strain females rock-specific changes while 422 genes changed significantly in sing strain females but not in rock strain females sing-specificgenes showing significant changes in transcript abundance in response to blood feeding or bacterial re-introduction in either rockefeller or singapore female midguts.

this is in stark contrast to sing strain females who maintain very high midgut microbial loads over time.culture independent method confirms lower midgut bacterial load in rock strain females compared to sing strain femaleswhile our live bacteria enumeration assays clearly show lower bacterial loads in the midgut of rock strain females culture dependent methods exclude detection of many microbes.

the fact that this phenomenon is so much more pronounced in sing strain compared to biological process gene ontology terms enriched for genes showing transcript abundance changes in either rockefeller or singapore in response to blood feeding or bacterial reintroduction.rock strain females suggests that sing females may perhaps respond more effectively to cellular stress after a blood meal.in response to bacterial ingestion transcript abundance of 50 genes was altered significantly in rock but not in sing strain females while transcripts of 69 genes were altered significantly in sing but not in rock strain females .

in brief the rockefeller rock strain was isolated from the caribbean in the 1930s  the orlando strain was isolated from orlando florida usa prior to 1940  the waco strain was isolated from waco texas usa in 1987  the bangkok strain was isolated from bang- kok thailand in 2011  and the singapore sing strain was isolated from singapore singa- pore in 2010 .

in summary our results indicate that female midgut bacterial load differs significantly among strains of a. aegypti both before and after blood feeding.midgut bacterial load significantly differs between rock and sing strains over timein order to test whether the differences in female midgut microbial load between the two most disparate strains rock and sing persists over time we repeated the same experiment as in the single time point bacterial load analysis shown in for these two strains but analyzed the midgut microbiota at 24 48 and 72 hours post blood feeding .

this is particu- larly true for rock and sing strain blood fed samples which shared the highest degree of similarity of all the samples unifrac  0.207. high similarity in composition suggests that differences in midgut bacterial load obtained using culture independent qpcr-based studies  are less likely to be due to differences in species-specific bacterial proliferation espe- cially among blood fed females and more likely to be due to general proliferation of the total midgut microbiome.

consistent with our findings using the live bacteria enumeration method our qpcr-based assays also showed that in both sucrose and blood fed treatments rock strain females had lower relative 16s dna copies compared to sing strain females sucrose fed pstrain  0.018 blood fed pstrain  0.011.using both culture-dependent and-independent methods we have shown significant dif- ferences in female midgut bacterial load between strains of a. aegypti.

however further work is necessary to address the influence of mosquito genotype on the midgut microbiota in the field and any consequent implications for vector competence.composition of rock and sing strain midgut microbiota using culture dependent and independent methodsthe differences we detected in bacterial load between the mosquito strains could potentially be attributed to 1 a universal effect on bacterial load in which the bacterial population as a whole proliferates more in some mosquito strains than in others 2 a species-specific effect on bacterial load in which only certain bacterial species differentially proliferate or 3 an effect on composition of the midgut in which different bacterial species colonize certainmosquito genotypes.

a larger proportion of rock strain sugar fed females had undetectable microbiota than sing strain sugar fed females while for blood fed females the difference between strains in the number of individuals with undetectable midgut bacteria is less extreme .

this pattern is likely attributable to the general absence of entobacteriaceae in rock strain sucrose fed females as well as the high abundance of flavobac- teriaceae in sing strain blood fed females .overall the culture-independent data suggest that the composition of the midgut micro- biome is quite similar between strains and especially within feeding treatments.

the increase in bacterial load after blood feeding has been shown in anopheles gambiae to be facilitated by a peroxidasedual oxidase system in the midgut which promotes formation of a crosslinked layer of proteins in the midgut lumen immediately after blood feeding .

sample names for each treatment are as follows rockefeller strain sucrose  gd.sms.rocksuc.mg.mar3.pooled rockefeller strain blood fed  gd.sms.rockblood.mg.mar3.pooled singapore strain sucrose  gd.sms.

we prepared samples from midguts of females of each strain that had been either maintained on 3 sucrose given a sterile blood meal 12 hours earlier or given a blood meal containing a cocktail of commonly isolated midgut bacteria12 hours earlier .

for count data strain was a significant predictor of bacterial load p  0.0237 and we also detected a significant interaction between feeding status and time post blood feeding p  0.0060. for presenceabsence data we detected a significant interaction between strain and feeding status p  0.0390. time post blood feeding was not a significant predictor for presenceabsence data.

cyanobacteria are presented at the phylum level as reads could not be classified accurately below this level.rock blood  0.406 rock sucrose vs. sing blood  0.448 suggesting that sucrose fed rock females have a midgut microbiome that is comparatively more dissimilar from either blood fed sample than any other pairwise comparison.

