addi- tionally this pathogen has a highly complex genome with widespread aneuploidy  the variation in mucosal inhibition between different b. dendrobatidis isolates dem- onstrated here may be linked to differential phenotypic or genotypic traits associated with these isolates as has been suggested in other studies .overall most b. dendrobatidis isolates showed reduced growth in the presence of mucosomes from both species .

mucosomes were challenged against eight b. dendrobatidis gpl isolates using an in vitro spectrophotometer assay method adapted from bell et al.

it has previously been shown that individual bacteria isolated from amphibian skin also show variation in their ability to inhibit across a range of b. dendrobatidis isolates - suggesting that the bacteria or their metabolites within the mucosome play a role in determining inhibition of a given isolate of b. den- drobatidis.

batrachochytrium dendrobatidis isolates were selected that appear in different parts of the b. dendrobatidis gpl phylogenetic treereceived 14 june 2017 accepted 25 october 2017author affiliations 1school of environment and life sciences university of salford salford uk 2unit for environmental sciences and management north-west university potchefstroom south africa.correspondence rachael ellen antwis keywords chytridiomycosis microbial symbionts pathogen susceptibility fungal pathogens innate defences mucosome skin products.abbreviation gpl global panzootic lineage.000570 a 2017 the authors bytable 1. batrachochytrium dendrobatidis isolates used in the studyo'hanlon pers.

almost all b. dendrobatidis isolates were inhibited when challenged with mucosome fromdelalandii with the exception of two isolates that showed negligible growth or inhibition south africa 1a and uk2 .

there were significant differences in a. delalandii mucosome inhibition among b. dendrobatidis isolates kruskall-wallace chi-squared21.686 d.f.7 p0.003 and a dunn post hoc analysis indicated significant differen- ces among a number of isolates .

the dunn pairwise comparisons  show that uk1 was significantly different to all other isolates of gpl with the exception of south africa 1b which was sig- nificantly different to the spain and sardinia isolates.together these results show that the growth of different iso- lates of b. dendrobatidis gpl varies significantly in the presence of amphibian mucosomes and that there is some variation in mucosome inhibition between host species across the range of isolates.

the authors would like to thank prof trent garner for provision of some batrachochytrium dendrobatidis isolates and valuable comments on a draft of this manuscript.conflicts of interestthe authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest.ethical statementthis study was approved by the biodiversity and conservation ecology scientific committee and the animal research ethics committee nwu-00013-10-s4 of north-west university and conducted under research permit 028 nw-11 issued by the department of economic development environment conservation and tourism north west provincial government republic of south africa.referencesberger l roberts aa voyles j longcore je murray ka et al.

amphibian chytridiomycosis is caused by fungal chytridio- mycetes of the genus batrachochytrium of which two have been identified to date b. dendrobatidis and b. salamandri- vorans .

amietia delalandii are not known to be experienc- ing chytridiomycosis-related declines in the wild although populations are infected with low levels of b. dendrobatidis 38.8  prevalence b. dendrobatidis genomic equivalents5.0 n464 .

the average inhibition percentage wascalculated for each individual across the six replicates and the eight individual frogs of each species acted as replicates for a given host species in subsequent analyses.overall most b. dendrobatidis isolates were inhibited in the presence of mucosomes from both species .

a mann-whitney u test indicated significant differences in mucosome inhibition between the two species for the uk1 isolate of b. dendrobatidis w20 p0.015 but there were no significant differences between host species for all other isolates all p0.05.

the overall model for differences in growth of b. dendroba- tidis isolates in the presence of p. adspersus mucosome was significant kruskall-wallace chi-squared21.596 d.f.7 p0.003.

see for statistically different pairwise comparisons.various b. dendrobatidis isolates.

almost all isolates were different to 2-4 other isolates with no discernible rela- tion to geographical origin of isolate.

