The attST produced significant increases of Alistipes and undefined Lactobacillus while GOS increased Christensenellaceae and Lactobacillus reuteri.

The microbiome structural changes induced by both treatments resulted in a faster clearance after a Salmonella challenge.IMPORTANCE With an average annual incidence of 13.1 cases100000 individuals salmonellosis has been deemed a nationally notifiable condition in the United States by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC.

The supershedder phenotype can be induced by antibiotics ascertaining an essential role for the gut microbiota in Salmonella transmission.

The two serotypes most commonly associated with foodborne illness in poultry foods are S. enterica serovar Typhimurium and S. enterica serovar Enteritidis accounting for approximately 40 to 60 of all reported Salmonella infections  .

The infection proceeds via two main stages invasion and systemic infection.

The objective is to condition the chicken immune system to decrease the levels of Salmo- nella associated with the animals consequently reducing the transmission of poten- tially pathogenic strains to human populations.

The immune response is the main determinant of Salmonella levels in the colon as immunosuppression of the infected mice does not induce suppershed- ding.

The difference in the microbiota of broilers versus layers may be related to the diet .

The prebiotics inulin fructo-oligosaccharides FOS and mannan-oligosaccharides MOS have been shown to confer a protective effect in chicks during the first few days postinfection reducing the colonization by and shedding of Salmonella   .In the present study we tested the hypothesis that the live attenuated Salmonella strain attST or prebiotic galacto-oligosaccharides GOS could improve resistance to wild-type Salmonella via modifications to the structure of the chicken gut microbiome.RESULTSScope of the study.

The other main phylum characterizing the early cecum microbiome was Firmicutes of the family Clostridiaceae uncharacterized.

