insulin resistance improved 6 weeks after the fmt but at 12 weeks nosignificant effect was observed anymore on metabolic parameters and fecal microbiota composition vrieze et al 2012.the reason why fmt has such variable efficacy is probably due to the stability and resilience of the gut microbiota.

cdi patients who have been treated multiple times with antibiotics have most of their bacterial diver- sity wiped out fmt effectively repopulates this vacated space with a stable and healthy bacterial community girotra et al 2016. in contrast fmt recipients with metabolic syndrome were obese but otherwise healthy individuals with a stable and diverse fecal microbiota.

commentaryan evaluation of the therapeutic potential of fecal microbiota transplantation to treat infectious and metabolic diseasesalbert k groen12  max nieuwdorp134fecal microbiota transplantation fmt has had a long history in medicine for treating a number of human diseases.

however fmt's breakthrough as the method of choice for the treatment of persistent clostridium difficile infection cdi came only after a double-blind randomized trial van nood et al 2013 which demonstrated 94 effi- cacy of fmt compared with 31 after conservative treatment with vancomycin.mt as a treatment modality has also been tested in a range of other diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease ibd irritable bowel syndrome obesity and metabolic syndrome as well as neurological and psychological disorders although most reports of the latter category are merely anecdotal.

e-mail department of pediatrics university medical center university of groningen groningen the netherlandsdepartment of internal medicine vumc diabetes center free university medical center amsterdam the netherlandswallenberg laboratory university of gothenburg gothenburg swedendoi 10.15252emmm.201607035  published online 9 november 2016embo molecular medicinean evaluation of the therapeutic potential of fecal microbiota transplantationalbert k groen  max nieuwdorpopportunity to characterize donor feces prior to application.moreover in most studies published so far the effects of fmt on human physiology were associated with bacterial composition.

as early as during the 4th century bc fmt was used in china to treat patients with food poisoning and diarrhea.

it was not until the late 1950s that fmt garnered interest again when the first reports about its use to treat fulminant enterocolitis appeared in the scientific literature.

reports about using fmt to treat ibd patients show considerable heterogeneity in terms of clinical effect moayyedi et al 2015 whereas efficacy in patients with metabolic syndrome was tran- sient.

further investigation of why fmt failed to engraft novel species or change the gut microbiota in these naive patients confirmed that their bacterial community is largely resilient to accepting new members in their midst.

this gated community makes exceptions only for donor strains that are closely related--as identified via single nucleotide variants--to species that are already present in the patient's intestine li et al 2016.the regulatory factors that control a person's fecal microbial composition are not understood yet.

clearly the study by bashan and colleagues requires validation because of the potentially major conse- quences for engraftment with fecal micro- biome-based probiotics.

if the influence of the host can really be ignored it should be possible to develop generic procedures and products to manipulate microbiota composi- tion which would simplify probiotic therapy enormously.another explanation for the differences in the efficacy of fmt to treat various diseases is the tremendous variation in experimental protocols.

standard operation procedures for fmt are therefore urgently needed.

with the intro- duction of metagenomic analysis it has become clear that in addition to bacteria the fecal microbiota contains a considerable amount of viruses fungi and phages as well as intact shedded colonocytes.

although bacte- ria clearly dominate the gut population it cannot be excluded that other components such as viruses and mirnas influence host physiology liu et al 2016.to our knowledge there have been no well-documented serious adverse events after fmt reported since its rejuvenation in 1958. however the lack of randomized well-controlled and well-documented stud- ies does not exclude that such events have occurred.

