the plates were visualized for acid production colour change and in par- allel imaged under uv to visualize gfp tagged endophyte cells.to test whether acid production by 3f11 was affected by the bioavailability of p in growth medium 3f11 coated seeds were grown on rock p and soluble p containing media described earlier.

the primary form of p in volcanic rock is alkaline rock p calcium phosphate compounds a highly insoluble p source.normally the main mechanism to solubilize alkaline rock p calcium phosphate or apatite rock phosphate is through acidification-.

the effect of low p on root growth and root hair elongation has been shown to be local and not based on the global plant status of p. these data suggest that the plant signaling machinery to low p is compatible with microbes acting locally within the root system to acclimate to low p patches in the soil.endophyte 3f11 is most similar to enterobacter asburiae.

ij representative confocal microscopy images showing colonization of gfp-tagged 3f11 cells on annual ryegrass root systems 7 days following seed- inoculation and growth on either i rock p or j soluble p showing the difference in the extent of colonization.as the confocal images suggested that root systems colonized by endophyte 3f11 had unusually long root hairs root hair length and density were quantified.

the endophyte maintained its targeting ability in two evolutionary divergent hosts suggesting that the host recognition machinery is conserved.phosphorus p is the second most limiting macronutrient for plants because much of the world's soil p reserves are rock p which is insoluble.

were coated onto seeds of the p hyperaccumulating annual ryegrass model system and plants were grown on rock p as the sole p source fig.

and reduced the ph of standard insoluble p liquid media national botanical research institute's phosphate growth medium nbrip from 6.7 to 5.1. to determine if strain 3f11 could perform this activity in planta the microbe was surface coated onto seeds of annual ryegrass and the germinated roots were placed on rock p medium containing bromocresol purple the surrounding media acidified fig.

combined these results demonstrate that endophyte 3f11 secretes acids and following seed coating can col- onize the surface and possibly sub-surface of root cells where it secretes acids to solubilize p regulated by p bioavailability in the rhizosphere.colonization of root hair cells and root hair extension.

c annual ryegrass plants from 3f11 coated seeds grown on rock p containing medium as the sole p source.

however 3f11 inoculation significantly increased the average root hair length p  0.0001 in two independent trials of annual ryegrass plants grown on rock p fig.

.to confirm whether 3f11 cells similarly localized to root hairs in corn gfp-3f11 cells were coated onto corn seeds and grown on insoluble p as the sole p source.

i-k effect of endophyte 3f11 on root hair length of annual ryegrass growing on media containing rock p as the sole p source.

rh indicates root hairs.combined these results suggest that in a p-insoluble rhizosphere bacteria 3f11 has the potential to target root hairs promote their growth and acidify the rhizosphere in order to solubilize rock p for uptake by a larger root hair surface.discussionfor crops the inability to solubilize rock p is a significant challenge.

these results suggest that 3f11 promotes p uptake around root hairs by a dual mechanism acidification to solubilize rock p which is then taken up by a greater root hair surface area.

as noted above endophyte 3f11 was able to promote root hair length when plants were grown on rock p. in general long root hairs are well known to be involved in p scavenging and improved yield under low p as they increase the absorptive epidermal surface area-.

