equation-based network   Bayesian network    relevance network   CoNet network     and random matrix theory RMT-based network  .

A RMT- based network can automatically identify the threshold for network construction   using 16S rRNA gene sequencing data creating a molecular ecology network that is objective rather than subjective    .The aim of the present study is to evaluate the relationship between soil microbiome and plant health and to reveal which microbes may play a role in inhibiting bacterial wilt disease.

The importance of soil microbes in controlling of plant disease is well recognized and soil microbiome links to plant disease in many ways stimulating production of plant growth hormones competing with pathogens for nutrients production of compounds e.g.

Among soil microbial properties microbe diversity showed the strongest effects negatively 0.4545 on plant disease infection followed by microbial community composition negatively0.3082 and molecular ecology network complexity negatively 0.2972.In summary the present study offered an integrate view of the relationship between soil bacterial community and plant health.

82179.doi The soil microbial communities play an important role in plant health however the relationship between the below-ground microbiome and above-ground plant health remains unclear.

This study provides new insights into our understanding the relationship between the soil microbiome and plant health.Keywords tobacco wilt disease plant health soil microbial community microbial community composition molecular ecology networksINTRODUCTIONSoil borne pathogens attack crops and causing huge yield losses.

Because controlling plant pathogens by microbes is a sustainable and chemical-free approach disease- suppressive soils with beneficial microbes have been developed for biocontrol of plant diseases     .

Actinomycetes promising tools to control plant diseases and to promote plant growth.

The rhizosphere microbiome significance of plant beneficial plant pathogenic and human pathogenic microorganisms.

Bacillus and Actinobacteria could act as network key taxa thus reducing the chance of plant soil-borne pathogen invasion.

