these metabolites are chemically and in many instances functionally distinct from the dietary form and such features highlight their bioactivity .maximum levels of phenolic metabolites in plasma are reached 1-2 h after consumption in the case of conjugated metabolites derived from the absorption in the small intestine and between 6 and 24 h for metabolites produced by the gut microbiota.

at the systemic level potential cardio- and neuro-protective effects of polyphenols have been described as well as a beneficial role in the prevention of some types of cancer diabetes inflammatory diseases and metabolic disorders -.it is accepted that a two-way interaction between polyphenols and gut microbiota exists so that not only is the gut microbiome involved in the metabolism of wine polyphenols but also the phenolic compounds and their microbial metabolites may impact on gut microbiota and induce prebiotic-like effects on bacteria.

the advent of promising dietary approaches linked to wine polyphenols beyond the gut microbiota community and metabolism are also discussed.keywords wine polyphenols flavonoids gut microbiota microbial phenolic metabolites inter-individual variabilityintroductionamong polyphenol-rich food wine--and in particular red wine--has attracted great interest from the scientific community especially since different epidemiological and randomized clinical intervention trials such as the international monica monitoring of trends and determinants in cardiovascular disease study  and more recently the predimed prevencion con dieta mediterrenea project  revealed that moderate wine consumption as part of a healthy diet and a lifestyle is associated with protective effects against relevant chronic diseases.

they undergo degradation by gut microbiota releasing ellagic acid which is further metabolized to give rise to urolithin a and its monohydroxylated analogue known as urolithin b .the main phenolic metabolites found in urine and plasma after intake of wine polyphenols are glucuronides sulphates and methylated derivatives of flavan-3-ols such as anthocyanins and flavonols as well as metabolites derived from their microbial catabolism mainly phenolic acids that can also be found in conjugated forms for a review see .

reviewan integrated view of the effects of wine polyphenols and their relevant metabolites on gut and host healthcarolina cueva 1 irene gil-sanchez 1 begona ayuda-duran 2 susana gonzalez-manzano 2ana maria gonzalez-paramas 2 celestino santos-buelga 2 begona bartolome 1and m. victoria moreno-arribas 1instituto de investigacion en ciencias de la alimentacion cial csic-uam.

nyman m. saarela m. watzl b. contribution of diet to the composition of the human gut microbiota.

found that whereas quercetin aglycone possessed higher antioxidant activity than each of the individual conjugated metabolites the pool of metabolites showed higher antioxidant capacity than that of the individual metabolites or quercetin isorhamnetin and their glycosides.

planta med.2004 70 1103-1114.  monagas m. urpi-sarda m. sanchez-patan f. llorach r. garrido i. gomez-cordoves c. andres-lacueva c. bartolome b. insights into the metabolism and microbial biotransformation of dietary flavan-3-ols and the bioactivity of their metabolites.

celeb g. galleano m. fraga c. biochemical actions of plant phenolics compounds thermodynamics and kinetic aspects wiley hoboken nj usa 2010.duenas m. gonzalez-manzano s. gonzalez-paramas a. santos-buelga c. antioxidant evaluation of o-methylated metabolites of catechin epicatechin and quercetin.

indeed the study of the effects of wine polyphenols on the gut microbiota needs a multidisciplinary approach that takes into account the complexity of the human microbiome and its metabolic function variability among different population groups and coexistence with other bioactive dietary components.the aim of the present review is to compile the updated information on the metabolism and mechanisms of action of wine polyphenols in the human body at both local and systemic levels with particular emphasis on their impact on gut microbiota composition and functionality and the inter-individual variability associated with their metabolism and further physiological effects.

recently the use of polyphenols together with probiotics and prebiotics the so-called three p for gut health has been proposed as a new strategy for modulating the composition and metabolic activity of gut microbiota .

recent scientific evidence suggests that wine polyphenols exert their effects through interactions with the gut microbiota as they seem to modulate microbiota and at the same time are metabolized by intestinal bacteria into specific bioavailable metabolites.

showed that the main gut microbial metabolites of resveratrol are dihydroresveratrol 34t-dihydroxy-trans-stilbene and 34t-dihydroxybibenzyl lunularin.ellagitannins these compounds are the main class of hydrolysable tannins present in wines.

actually in the particular case of ellagitannins individual metabotype stratification has been proposed according to their ability to produce urolithins the specific polyphenol-derived gut microbiota metabolites .

therefore population stratifications according to their capacity to metabolize polyphenols seems not only to correlate with the concentration andor functionality of the gut microbiota involved in the production of these metabolites but also to disease biomarkers.interactions with host cellssome authors have suggested that wine polyphenols could have an effect on the immune andor inflammatory bowel response as several studies with cellular models have revealed .

