duncan wadsworth1 raffaele argiento2 michele guindani3 jessica galloway-pena4 samuel a. shelbourne5 and marina vannucci1backgroundthe human microbiome is defined as the collection of microorganisms including bacteria viruses and some unicellular eukaryotes that live in and on our bodies  research on the microbiome has grown exponentially in the past few years and it has been argued that the micro- biota can be regarded as a second indeed just the human gut microbiome is estimated to be com- posed of approximately 1014 bacterial cells i.e.

we evaluate the performance of our model first on simu- lated data where we provide comparisons with methods developed for microbiome or similar type of data.

one distinctive characteristic of the microbiome data is their overdispersion while some taxa e.g.

multidimensional scaling to summarize abundances and are sometimes employed to link the microbiome data with available clinical covariates and phylogenetic information in those approaches the choice of the distance metric is often crucial.

similarly develop a struc- ture constrained version of sparse canonical correlation analysis that integrates compositionalized microbiome data phylogenetic information and nutrient information.

however the use of a constrained optimization approach does not allow to fully characterize the uncertainty in the selection of the significant associations which is of particular impor- tance especially when dealing with high-dimensional and highly-correlated data.here we propose a probabilistic modeling approach which both flexibly takes into account the typical features of microbiome count data and also allows for straight- forward incorporation of available covariate informa- tion within a dm log-linear regression framework.

with respect to modeling approaches as in our frame- work allows the study of associations between multi- variate microbiome data and multivariable predictors.

we also illustrate our method on data obtained from the human microbiome project  to investigate the association between taxonomic abundances and metabolic pathways inferred from whole genome shotgun sequencing reads.

it is known that the combination of environmental and host genetic factors shape the composition of the gut micro- biota and these interactions appear to have a significant effect on several biological mechanisms which may be related for example to the individual immunity and bar- rier defense as well as metabolism and diet the approach has been implemented in a user-friendly r code which has been made publicly available see the licensing section.methodswe describe our bayesian variable selection approach for the analysis of microbiome data and their association with a set of available covariates in the context of dm log-linear regression models.dirichlet-multinomial regression with variable selection let yi  yi1 ...  yij  indicate the vector of counts rep- resenting the taxonomic abundance table obtained fromthe ith patient with yij denoting the frequency of the jth microbial taxon for j  1 ...  j and i  1 ...  n. fur- thermore let x  x1 ...  xp indicate a n x p matrix of measurements on p covariates.

then we write the prioron the bpj's asvides an overview of the proposed integrative modeling approach with reference to the application to the human microbiome project data we describe later.mcmc algorithmwe implement a stochastic search markov chain monte carlo mcmc algorithm for posterior inference that employs a gibbs scan to sample the non-zero regression coefficients we encourage an efficient sampling by employing a component-wise adaptive metropolis algo- rithm as described below.

more specifically we consider two methods which have been specifically employed for the integrative analysis of microbiome data the penalized approach of chen and li and the false discovery rate-corrected pair-wise correlation tests considered in in addi- tion we consider the factorized maximum a posteriori map bayesian lasso of a recently proposed gen- eral statistical method for conducting variable selection in multivariate count-response regression.

the five number sum- mary of the 25 geweke z-scores was -3.43 -1.06 -0.63 0.71 1.98.inferring associations between taxonomic abundances and metabolic pathwayswe demonstrate our approach on publicly available data obtained from the human microbiome project hmp website from which we use 79 samples from healthy individuals.

forhave illustrated the performance of our method using publicly available data on taxonomic abundances and metabolic pathways inferred from whole genome shotgun sequencing reads which we obtained from the human microbiome project website.

another important aspect of microbiome data which is receiving attention from researchers is the heterogene- ity in community structure across samples as this can be an indication of the existence of enterotypes this can be addressed within our modeling frame- work by employing bayesian nonparametric models that would allow to cluster selected associations across parti- tions of the samples.

20124867402215-1. mcmurdie pj holmes s. waste not want not why rarefying microbiome data is inadmissible.

