demonstrated the transfer of a plasmid carrying an esbl gene from avian to human e. coli in both the presence and absence of cefotaxime at transfer rates with the same order of magnitude as we report here.plasmid transfer rates are classically measured in vitro using pure cultures of donor and recipient at high cell densities .

furthermore bacterial diversity measured by adonis analysis comparing cefotaxime ctx-treated vessels with nontreated vessels using the weighted unifrac beta diversity indicated that there were significant changes to the bacterial community after cefotaxime was administered p  0.001 and r2  0.134 .

such models have been used to investigate the impact of antibiotics on proliferation of clostridium difficile in a human gut model  the transfer of amr gene-harboring plasmids from avian e. coli to a limited number of human e. coli clones in a human gut model  the production of metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids in human chicken and pig microbiota   and the impact of dietary elements on human microbiota  .in this study we report the development of an in vitro chemostat system that aims to approximate the chicken cecal microbiota and use it to demonstrate the effect of infection of the chicken with a multidrug-resistant mdr salmonella and ensuing antibiotic administration.

to identify statistically significant changes in the bacterial communities the 16s rrna metagenomic data from all four experiments were analyzed using qiime and structured to allow comparison by experiment number timetable 1 significance in differences between alpha and beta diversity indices for the variables experiment time point salmonellainoculation and cefotaxime administrationpoint cefotaxime administration and salmonella inoculation.

bacterial com- munity profiles obtained by culture-independent methods showed that salmonella inoculation resulted in no significant changes to bacterial community alpha diversity and beta diversity whereas administration of cefotaxime caused significant altera- tions to both measures of diversity which largely recovered.

the chao1 and shannon alpha diversity indices were calculated using qiime and significant differences p  0.05 for the categorical variables were calculated in graphpad prism using the mann-whitney two-tailed test cefotaxime administration and the kruskal-wallis test time point salmonella inoculation and experiment number.

we also evaluated the impact of cefotaxime administration on plasmid transfer and microbial diversity.

snps were filtered using the quality thresholds of minimum coverage equal to 4 minimum proportion of raw sequences agreeing with the snp call equal to 80 and samtools snp quality score of 150. a maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree using the snps located within regions present for all the strains was constructed using raxml .the antimicrobial resistance amr gene content of the isolates was assessed using seqfinder as described previously .

bacterial counts were analyzed using graphpad prism version 6.04 graphpad software inc.. plasmid transfer rates via bacterial conjugation were calculated using the endpoint method of l. simonsen et al.

plasmid transfer rates for experiment 4 were calculated by using the endpoint bacterial enumeration method  with day 8 counts and ranged from 2.2 x 10-9 to 6.4 x 10-10.all presumptive salmonella isolates n  13 recovered from rambach agar plates were verified as salmonella by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry maldi-tof ms and were pcr positive for the pifm3844 plasmid and the blactx-m1 gene it harbors table s5.

an important aspect of this study was to determine whether the presence of a zoonotic pathogen in the chicken ceca harboring an mdr plasmid results in transfer and proliferation of this plasmid in commensal bacteria that may result in a significant increase in the reservoir of resistant bacteria and their possible transfer through the food chain to affect humans.

to compare the commensal e. coli present in the chicken cecal content to transconjugants recov- ered by culture and to determine whether pifm3844 had transferred into one or more different e. coli clones we performed whole-genome sequencing on 39 isolates from experiments 3 and 4. isolates were recovered from plates with cefotaxime n  28 or without cefotaxime n  11. the maximum likelihood tree based on core genome single nucleotide polymorphisms snps showed nine subclades of e. coli which we have called clones due to the high sequence similarity in the core genome between members of a clone and these clones represent different e. coli present in the chicken microbiota in the two experiments .

the development of in vitro gut models that enable the coculture of human and microbial cells shows promise but to date only cultures containing one or two bacterial species have been assessed   and their capacity to maintain the complex microbiota of the gut remains unreported.the multidrug resistance plasmid pifm3844 transferred to seven of the nine e. coli clones identified in the chicken microbiota considerably more than the two strains reported by a. smet et al.

for example administration of cefotaxime to the model resulted in signifi- cant decreases in alpha diversity an effect commonly reported for antibiotic adminis- tration and observed in vivo in chickens administered penicillin  tetracycline  or streptomycin  in rats administered cefotaxime  and in humans administered antibiotics including beta-lactams .

we used an in vitro chemostat system to approximate the chicken cecal microbiota simulate colonization by an mdr salmonella pathogen and exam- ine the dynamics of transfer of its mdr plasmid harboring several genes including the extended-spectrum beta-lactamase blactx-m1.

