cerniglia.1 these authors contributed equally to this work.2 present address applied bioresources research division freshwater bio- resources utilization bureau nakdonggang national institute of biological re- sources nnibr 137 donam 2-gil sangju-si gyeongsangbuk-do 37242 republic of korea.the human gastrointestinal gi tract is composed of complex microbial communities which play an essential role in maintaining human health and are part of the human gastrointestinal tract ecosystem now collectively called the human intestinal micro- biome.

eantimicrobial susceptibility of anaerobic bacteriaan in vitro study to assess the impact of tetracycline on the human intestinal microbiomeji young jung    youngbeom ahn   sangeeta khare  kuppan gokulan silvia a. pineiro  carl e. cerniglia  a division of microbiology national center for toxicological research u.s. fda jefferson ar usab division of human food safety center for veterinary medicine u.s. fda rockville md usaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 18 september 2017 received in revised form22 december 2017accepted 27 december 2017available online 30 december 2017 handling editor andrew bruce onderdonkkeywordstetracyclinehuman intestinal microbiome in vitro culture test system pyrosequencingbacteroidestetracycline resistance genesa b s t r a c t the human intestinal microbiome a generally stable ecosystem could be potentially altered by the ingestion of antimicrobial drug residues in foods derived from animals.

data and the scientific published literature on the effects of antimicrobial residues on the human intestinal microbiome are reviewed by national regulatory authorities as part of the human food safety evaluation of veterinary antimicrobial agents used in food-producing animals.

although the human intestinal microbiota is generally stable within healthy individuals over time a variety of external pertur- bations and lifestyle changes such as type of dietary intake and human medicinal drugs exposure can alter the microbiota composition and functions in the intestine .

among human medicinal drugs antibiotic use is one of the major influences which can perturb the composition of the microbiota e. antibiotics at therapeutic dosage levels have a profound effect on the microbiota and their overuse is linked with an increase in antibiotic-resistant bacterial pathogens .the use of antibiotics in food-producing animals may result in more than negligible residue concentrations of antimicrobial drugs in edible tissues e. regulatory authorities such as the eu- ropean medicines agency ema the united states- food and drug administration us fda and international committees like the joint food and agriculture organizationworld health organiza- tion faowho expert committee on food additives jecfa establish safe levels of antibiotic exposure by determining accept- able daily intakes adi for human consumption.

recently cerniglia and collab- orators provided an update discussion on the current assessment of the safety of veterinary antimicrobial drug residues in food with regard to their impact on the human intestinal microbiome dis- cussing the availability of new information .tetracycline a member of a family of broad-spectrum polyke-tide antimicrobials is used in both human and veterinary medicine.

the codified adifor the united states is 25 mgkg bwday .the main objective of this study was to investigate the effects of low residue concentrations of tetracycline on the human intestinal microbiome through the analysis of bacterial community compo- sition and quantification of resistance genes in human fecal sam- ples using an in vitro batch culture system.

metagenomic approaches using high-throughput sequencing have proved to be powerful tools in the analysis of the microbiome in the human gut e and have been used to analyze the impact of antibiotics on the human intestinal micro- biota .

the collection and use of human fecal samples was approved by fda's research involving human subjects committee rihsc14e061t.in vitro culture conditions of fecal microbiota and samplingfor the in vitro batch culture of the fecal slurries anaerobic fermentation medium was prepared by a slight modification of the method of kim et al.

the genus bacteroides including anaerobic gram-negative non-spore forming and rod-shaped bacteria are one of the dominant bacte- rial groups in the human colon  and they are involved in many important metabolic activities in the human colon such as hy- drolysis of polysaccharides carbohydrate fermentation andutilization of nitrogenous substances .

the methodological approaches combining high- throughput sequencing qrt-pcr and bioinformatic analysis will be useful tools in the next phase of screening more human fecalspecimens for the effects of low residue concentrations of antibi- otics including tetracycline on the human intestinal microbiome.

in this study we determined if tetracycline at low residue concentrations could impact the human intestinal microbiome structure and the resistance-gene profile following acute and subchronic exposure.

the effects of 0.15 1.5 15 and 150 mgml of tetracycline after 24 h and 40 days of exposure in 3 human fecal suspensions collected from three individuals a b andwere investigated using in vitro batch cultures.

results were variable with either no change or minor changes in total bacterial 16s rrna gene copies after exposure of fecal samples to tetracycline because of the inter-individual variation of human gastrointestinal tract microbiota.

despite the inherent variability of the intestinal microbiota observed among or within individuals this pilot study contributes to the knowledge base of the impact of low residue concentrations of tetracycline on the human intestinal microbiome on the potential for antimicrobial resistance.published by elsevier ltd.introduction corresponding author.

