p value  0.05  p value  0.001.c4.03.5novemberd2.e081.e088.e073.02.54.e072.0site a site b site c site d0.e00site a site b site c site daugust novembercomparison of microbiota composition in octopuses at the phylum levelthe compositions of microbiota in samples collected in august and november were compared at the phylum level a. bacteroidetes was the predominant phylum 40.4 followed by tenericutes 23.8 proteobacteria 18.2 and spirochaetes 11.6 in the august samples.the relative abundance of proteobacteria was higher 63.5 whereas those of bacteroidetes 18.6 tenericutes 11.3 and spirochaetes 0.001 were lower in the november samples than the august ones p  0.05. the differences of microbiota were also compared among samples from different sites at the same sampling time b. in august samples the relative abundance of bacteroidetes was highest inab100augustnovember90augustnovember80706050403020100site a site b site c site dsite a site b site c site dphylumothers actinobacteria nitrospirae verrucomicrobia spirochaetes tenericutes firmicutes bacteroidetes proteobacteriafig.

this result indicated that the amounts of dominant bacteria in octopus microbiota were high in samples from site c. for november samples the highest diversity of microbiota was detected in site a 4.1 - 0.5 and the lowest was in site d 2.5 - 0.4 p  0.05. the highest bacterial load in octopus was found in samples of site b 7.08 x 107 copiesg and the lowest was found in site d 5.39 x 106 copiesg.

analysis of the bacterial microbiome in the small octopus octopus variabilis from south korea to detect the potential risk of foodborne illness and to improve product managementjin-jae lee tae-yoon kim sang ho choi bong-soo kima department of life science multidisciplinary genome institute hallym university chuncheon gangwon-do 24252 republic of koreab department of agricultural biotechnology center for food safety and toxicology seoul national university seoul 08826 republic of koreaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords small octopus microbiotawhole metagenome foodborne illnessa b s t r a c t the small octopus octopus variabilis is a popular seafood in many countries including south korea.

the diversity of microbiota in small octopuses was higher in august samples 5.8 - 0.9 than in november samples 3.2 - 0.7 p  0.001. for august samples the highest diversity of microbiota was detected in site d 6.2 - 1.0 and the lowest was detected in site c 5.2 - 1.1.however the quantified bacterial amounts were found to be differentfrom the calculated diversity d. the highest amount of bacteria was found in samples from site c 1.18 x 108 copiesg and the lowest was found in site a 5.83 x 106 copiesg.

the small changes in diversity and bacterial amount in site a compared to the other sampling sites might have been due to the small changes in seawater temperature between august and november dtm  6.1 degc in site a whereas dtm  8.3 degc in other sites.

further studies are needed to better understand the relation of these genera with geochemical factors in sampling locations and the pathogenicity of potential pathogens in the microbiota of small octopuses in august.shifts of microbiota composition in small octopuses infected with v. vulnificus over storage timewe used metagenomics analysis to investigate the effect of v. vul- nificus infection on the indigenous microbiota in octopus samples.

the bacterial cells obtained from each sample were diluted in 255 ml ofbuffered peptone water 10 g peptone 5 g sodium chloride 3.5 g dis- odium phosphate 1.5 g potassium dihydrogen phosphate with ph 7.2 and stored at -80 degc before metagenomic dna extraction.artificial infection of vibrio vulnificus on small octopusthe influence of v. vulnificus infection on the indigenous microbiota of small octopuses during storage was analyzed by artificially infecting octopuses with v. vulnificus and stored in sterile containers at 27 degc room temperature and 4 degc.

however the small octopus was obtained from the highest consumed sites and seasons and the shifts of indigenous microbiota in artificial infection experiment were analyzed with 32 small octopus samples from the same sampling site and season.

5. comparison of a the number of observed operational taxonomic units otus b the shannon diversity index and c the amount of bacteria in non-infected small octopuses stored at 4 degc 4 degc ni blue circle v. vulnificus-infected octopuses stored at 4 degc 4 degci red circle non-infected octopuses at 27 degc rtni blue triangle and infected octopuses stored at 27 degc rti red triangle.

results in this study can extend our under- standing of food poisoning by small octopus and help to manage pro- ducts according to information of microbiome.materials and methodssample collectiona total of 40 small octopus samples were collected from four dif- ferent sites in november 2015 relatively low temperature of seawater16.7 - 0.7 degc and august 2016 relatively high temperature of sea- water 25.7 - 2.2 degc .

these results also suggested that the environment influences the microbiota in small octopuses.comparison of microbiota composition in octopuses at the genus levelthe relative abundances of frequently detected genera  1 of total microbiota in at least one sampling site were compared using heatmap analysis .

therefore it is necessary to analyze the effects of vibrio infection on indigenous microbiota in small octopus before consumption.in this study we investigated the microbiota of small octopuses collected from different sampling sites in august and november using the miseq system with the 16s rrna genes.

p value  0.05  p value  0.01  p value  0.001.potential risk of changes in the microbiota during storage for food processing of small octopus products.conclusionsthe microbiota of the small octopuses collected in august and november from different sampling sites in korea was analyzed.

these results in present study could not be generalized the microbiota and the changes of the indigenous microbiota by v. vulnificus infection in the small octopus due to the relatively small number of samples and selected sites.

the microbiota of the small octopus was influenced by the sampling region since small octopus inhabit marine sediments such as tidal flats where organic compounds accumulate from nearby regions.

