analysis of overlap of non-hp ub and non-hp nb revealed the higher composition of streptococcus pseudopneumoniae s. parasanguinis and s. oralis in hp- cancer groups than the others only in the body p  0.030 but not in the antrum p  0.123.conclusions higher diversity and higher composition of s. pseudopneumoniae s. parasanguinis and s. oralis in hp- cancer group than the other groups in the body suggest that analysis of microbiota from body mucosa could be beneficial to identify a role of non-hp bacteria in the gastric carcinogenesis.j cancer prev 201722115-125key words microbiota helicobacter pylori antrum mucosa body mucosaintroductionhuman is constantly exposed to pathogenic microorganisms such as bacteria viruses and fungi.

hp helicobacter pylori con control.table 2. comparison of species frequency of gastric antrum and body mucosal samplesantrum body table 2. continuedantrum body phylumspecieshp-hp-hphphp-hp-hphpvalues are presented as mean percent.

additionally the grades of neutrophils and monocytes infiltration were significantly different between hp  cancer group and the others antrum p  0.046 p  0.184 body p  0.013 p  0.162 respectively.gastric antrum versus body mucosathe means of reads and otus were lower in gastric antral mucosa samples than gastric body mucosa samples fig.

hp helicobacter pylori nb nitrosating or nitrate-reducing bacteria ub urease-producing bacteria con control p  0.05 compared to hp- control p  0.05 compared to hp- cancer.the proportion of non-hp-ub and non-hp-nb was higher in the hp- cancer group than in that of the hp cancer group especially body mucosa antrum p  0.053 p  0.121 body p  0.053 p  0.051 respectively fig.

bacterial infection has been linked to cancer through two mechanisms 1 chronic inflammation and 2 production of carcinogenic metabolites such as hp infection.23gastric acidity is a barrier to bacterial overgrowth.2425 the bacterial colonization in stomach increases under the condition such as acid-reducing drug atrophic gastritis and gastric surgery.1025 in addition decreased gastric acid secretion is responsible for an increased risk of infection.20 the antrum and body of stomach are distinct niches for microbial colonization owing to differential ability to secrete gastric acid.26 thus comparison of gastric microbiota between gastric antrum and body will be useful.

however there was little difference in gastric microbiota between antrum and body in normal control group except prevotella.27 similarly our results also showed that hp- cancer group showed high proportion of streptococcus phylum firmicutes in both gastric antrum 41.3 and body 49.5. however the proportion of streptococcus sp.

the aim of our study is to investigate the difference of human gastric microbiota between antrum and body according to disease control vs. gastric cancer and hp status.

methods each antrum and body biopsy was collected from 12 subjects at seoul national university bundang hospital.

twelve subjects consisted of hp-negative control n  2 hp-negative cancer n  2 hp-positive control n  3 and hp-positive cancer n  5. the analysis was focused on non-hp urease-producing bacteria ub and non-hp nitrosating or nitroreducing bacteria nb between antrum and body.results gastric body samples showed higher diversity compared to gastric antrum mucosa samples but there was no significant difference.

these differences were more pronounced in the body p  0.051 and p  0.081 respectively.

our previous studies revealed that gastric microbiota were different according to hp infection status and presence or absence of gastric cancer in gastric mucosa by using a pyrosequencing method.11-13 we also conducted a research which suggested that gastric mucosa could be more effective than gastric fluid in the detection of meaningful gastric microbiome.11on the other hand gastric antrum and body are different in terms of acid secretion.

acid secretion depends on activation of the gastric h k-atpase termed as the acid or proton pump.14 this enzyme was found uniquely in gastric parietal cellswhich are located at oxyntic gastric gland of the body.

on the contrary to the usual concept hp is neutralophiles.15 that it in the case of subjects with high acid-secretion hp escapes from body and settles in the antrum leading to antrum-predominant gastritis.16 however when hp succeeds in the colonization it begins to dominant in the stomach resulting in decrease of microbiota diversity.

from this background we made a hypothesis that gastric microbiota could be different between in the antrum and in the body.

although we found a minor role of non-hp bacteria in the gastric carcinogenesis inthe antrum12 the microbiota analysis from body could be different.

