Together these results suggest that some of the therapeutic effects of Acarbose-induced modulation of the gut microbiota are related to bacterial BA metabolism and therefore BA signalling.DiscussionThis study compared the effects of two antidiabetic drugs on the gut microbiota plasma BAs and their relations with clinical outcomes in a clinical trial-based cohort.

However takentogether our results clearly point to the importance of Acarbose- induced changes in the composition of the gut microbiome and the observed alterations in BA profiles.With the increased attention on the metabolic significance of BA signalling the discovery of an Acarbose-gut microbiota-BA axis may aid the identification of novel modalities for therapeutics intervention targeting the gut microbiome or plasma BAs.

The implication of gut microbiota-plasma BA axis underlying ther- apeutic effects of Acarbose is further supported by the finding of more pronounced changes in plasma BA composition and clinical benefits of Acarbose treatment in patients where the baseline microbiomes belonged to an enterotype-like cluster driven by Bacteroides Cluster B vs. those belonging to an enterotype-like cluster driven by Prevotella Cluster P.In conclusion our results suggest that the differential ther- apeutic responses are related to distinct abilities of the microbial communities in the two microbiome clusters to metabolise BAs and more importantly our findings demonstrate that stratifica- tion of patients according to baseline gut microbiota composition may provide a tool for selecting medication strategy and pre- dicting antidiabetic metabolic benefits.MethodsTrial design.

TC total cholesterol LDL low-density of lipoprotein cholesterol TG triglycerides HDL high-density of lipoprotein cholesterol IL6 Interleukin 6 CDCA chenodeoxycholic acid CA cholic acid PBASBA the ratio of primary BAs vs. secondary BAs UnconBAConBA the ratio of unconjugated BA species vs. conjugated BA species TCA taurocholic acid TCDCA taurochenodeoxycholic acid DCA deoxycholic acid 12aOHnon-12aOH the ratio of 12aOH vs. non-12aOH BA species UDCA ursodeoxycholic acid LCA lithocholic acid TLCA taurolithocholic acid GLCA glycolithocholic acid TDCA taurodeoxycholic acid GDCA glycodeoxycholic acid GUDCA glycoursodeoxycholic acid TUDCA tauroursodeoxycholic acid ABA sum of all measured plasma BAs GCDCA glycochenodeoxycholic acid TaurineBA taurine-conjugated bile acids GCA glycocholic acidrank-sum test P  0.05 between groups Fig.

The relative abundances of genes encoding enzymes involved in bacterial BA modification including BA deconjugation BA transport hydroxysteroid dehydrogenation and 7ab dehydroxylation were thus calculated and compared between pre-treatment and post-treatment sam- ples Supplementary Table 8.

The relative abundances of baiE encoding BA 7a-dehydratase the rate-limiting enzyme for 7a- dehydroxylation and baiI encoding BA 7b-dehydratase were significantly decreased after Acarbose treatment while the baiG encoding BA transporter and genes encoding 7b-Hsdh 7b- hsdh showed significant enrichment after Acarbose treatment paired Wilcoxon rank-sum test P  0.05 Fig.

It is possible that the significantly reduced level of FGF19 which conveys the main inhibitory intestinal BA signal for hepatic BA neo-synthesis  or an altered intestinal BA reabsorption after Acarbose treat- ment may contribute to the discrepancy between the UnconBA ConBA ratios in plasma and faecal samples.

Interestingly 58 out of the 69 mOTUs that exhibited significant changes in relative abundance in response to Acarbose treatment also correlated with Acarbose-induced alterations in plasma BA composition GEE adjusted for age sex and BMI q  0.05 Supplementary Data 1 pointing to a tight link between Acarbose-dependent alterations of the gut microbiota and plasma BA composition.Many of the Acarbose-induced species have been classified and used as probiotics and the increase in the relative abundance correlated with improvements in metabolic parameters GEE adjusted for age sex and BMI q  0.05 Supplementary Fig.

To explore the possible impact of Acarbose on gut bacterial BA metabolism we performed functional annotations of genes using a manually built reference library which includes 1011 annotated amino acid sequences mapped to 16102 genes implicated in bacterial BA metabolism Supplementary Table 8.

The notion that similar changes in BA composition and correlations between metabolic traits and plasma BAs after both Acarbose treatment and gut reconstruction surgeries despite differences in populations sample size and follow-up time points to the importance of BA signalling in metabolic control in T2D treatments.Acarbose treatment led to increased abundances of speciespossessing high Bsh activity mainly B. longum L. gasseri and reduced abundance of the SBA producers B. plebeius B. vulgatus dorei and C. bolteae.

