Using culture methods Finegold et al reported finding 9 Clostridium species in the stool of autistic children that were not found in fecal samples from healthy subjects.

Our data confirmed earlier observations by Son et al who could not find significant difference in diversity or overall microbial composition between ASD children with their neurotypical siblings however identified several low-abundance taxa at the genus level that were associated with ASD.We detected no difference in frequency of lactase deficiency between autistic subjects with GI symptoms and controls with GI symptoms and slightly higher frequency in sucrase and maltase deficiency in the last group.

In addition Desulfo- vibrio species and Bacteroides vulgatus were present in signifi- cantly higher numbers in stools of severely autistic children The stool of children with autism also contained lower abundances of Bifidobacterium species and the mucolytic bacterium Akkermansia muciniphila Kang et al reported a less diverse microbiome in the stool of autistic individuals than in unaffected people with lower levels of Prevotella Coprococcus and unclassified Veillonellaceae.

In another study Williams et al found that Sutterella was a major com- ponent of the mucosal microbiota in more than half of children with autism and GI dysfunction but was absent in neurotypical children with GI dysfunction.In contrast to the fecal and ileal microbiome the compo- sition of the duodenal microbiome in individuals with autism is not well characterized.

The positive correlation between disaccharidase activity and Clostri- dium species is interesting to compare with previous observations that lactose and human milk neutral oligosaccharides are associated with proliferation of Clostridia in the lower intestine Low disaccharidase activities particularly lactase have been reported in children with ASD These observations are sup- ported by Williams et al who found that the microbial dysbiosis in the ileum of children with ASD was associated with host deficiencies in mRNA expression levels of lactase sucrase-iso- maltase maltase-glucoamylase and sugar transporters SGLT1 and GLUT2.

for philanthropic support and the Autism Research Institute for supporting the biorepository.REFERENCESBuie T Campbell DB Fuchs GJ et al.

Med Hypotheses 199851 133-44.Finegold SM Molitoris D Song Y et al.

Appl Environ Micobiol 200470 6459- 65.Parracho HM Bingham MO Gibson GR et al.

J Med Microbiol 200554987-91.Finegold SM Dowd SE Gontcharova V et al.

Anaerobe 2010 16444-53.Wang L Angley MT Gerber JP et al.

