however post-heterologous-fmt samples analyzed using pac- bio were considerably more alike than when analyzed using illumina similar to taxonomic characterization.figure 2. distribution of genera in samples characterized using pac- bio sequel a and illumina b platforms.

a-fmt - patients received autologous fmt h-fmt - patients received heterologous fmt with donor material.ynd not determined.community a diversity characterized using the shan- non index  tended to be higher among samples sequenced using pacbio technology but differences between platform were not significant anova p d 0.082. similarly when a-fmt and h-fmt samples were grouped differences in diversity between treatment groups did not differ p d 0.064 and 0.149 for illumina and pacbio data respectively.

blast results were imported into megan   and a lowest common ancestor lca algorithm was used to assign a taxonomy to each sequence.for pre-fmt samples 12 smrt cells were used on the rsii system producing 73237 reads and 93055558 bases with a n50 ccs read length of 1373. post-fmt samples were sequenced on the rsii system using 45 smrt cells and generated 905267 reads comprising 662421070 bases and at n50 ccs read length of 739. in contrast the sequel system was used for rhode island clinical samples.

both pre- and post-fmt samples were examined using the rsii platform and sequel results were compared against illumina sequencing data from samples collected at 2 and 8 weeks after fmt was administered.

nevertheless new bioinformatic tools coupled with the pacbio sequel plat- form with multiplexed samples hold promise in provid- ing unparalleled species-level resolution of microbiota in complex communities.disclosure of potential conflicts of interestno potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.figure 4. species composition of samples characterized using the pacbio sequel platform.

than was observed in autologous fmt samples.taken together these results suggest that pacbio has the sensitivity and accuracy to determine species level resolution of microbial taxa present in fecal samples to a degree not possible using other technologies.

notably very low abundances of genera within the firmicutes a phylum typically prevalent in fecal communities were observed when samples were characterized by pacbio.ordination of samples by principal coordinate analysis revealed similar separation of autologous fmt and heterologous fmt samples between plat- forms  in agreement with results described previously for the larger study cohort.

a-fmt patients received autologous fmt h-fmt patients received heterologous fmt.resolution of communities at the species level revealed a greater shift in community composition among autologous fmt samples than was observed in heter- ologous fmt samples  where autologous fmt samples were characterized by fluctuations in abun- dance of species predominantly within the genus bac- teroides.

structure func- tion and diversity of the healthy human microbiome.nature 2012 486207-14 gilbert ja meyer f jansson j gordon j pace n tiedje j ley r fierer n field d kyrpides n et al.

j biomed biotechnol 2012 2012251364.caporaso jg lauber cl walters wa berg-lyons d huntley j fierer n owens sm betley j fraser l bauer m et al.

this bacterium pro- duces a devastating and often fatal colitis that affects nearly 500000 people per year in the us.traditional antibiotic treatment using antibiotic therapies may be effective but recurrence is seen in approximately 20- 30 of cases due to the disruption of the native micro- biota which may lead to continual infection.we have pioneered the use of fmt to treat this disease with success rates of 96.we now understand that restoration of normal intestinal function after fmt is due to replacement of healthful gut microbiota primarily those species within the firmicutes and bacteroidetes that fill all available niches as well as an increase in secondary bile acids that limit c. difficile spore germination and vegetative growth.despite these advances however specific species that may be important for this functional restoration are unknown in large part due to the limited taxonomic resolution of the illumina-based sequencing technologies we have used to examine gut recolonization.such limitation has led to the generation of often limited correlations and a lack of functionally based hypothe- ses aside from those based on data obtained using predictive software such as picrust.to overcome these limitations we examined the potential use of third-generation pacbio rsii- and sequel-based sequence analyses of the microbiota from feces of patients receiving fmt to cure cdi.

ccs circular consensus reads were generated using default parameters in the smrt link 3.1.1 application pacific biosciences menlo park ca and reads were aligned against the refseq genomic database using blastn.

this technology will ultimately be limited by read length maxima and long processing times due in part to the large number of sample reads produced per run.key to understanding microbiomes and thus the underlying microbial ecology of any system is the tax- onomic resolution possible using a given technique.

samples characterized by sequel were taken from rhode island subject rs05 female age 60 further described in a recent randomized clinical trial.briefly for pacbio sequencing smrtbell libraries were prepared using smrtbell template prep kit 1.0 as described previously   .

by all methods pre-fmt communities showed high relative abundances of gammaproteobacteria deter- mined by microarray to consist primarily of the gen- era enterobacter escherichia lactobacillus raoultella and veillonella among 3 patient samples.in a sepa- rate sample characterized using rs ii technology the genera klebsiella citrobacter and veillonella predo- minated in the pre-fmt community and species-level classification revealed high abundances of klebsiella oxytoca pseudomonas aeruginosa and e. coli .figure 1. species distribution among pre- and post-fmt samples characterized by pacbio rsii technology.in contrast the community composition post-fmt appeared to depend on the technology used sequenc- ing next-generation or pacbio revealed expansions of both firmicutes and bacteroidetes whereas micro- array characterization showed greater expansion of the clostridia with lower abundances of bacteroi- detes.

