these included a significant increase in the genera escherichia ruminococcus r. gnavus cetobacterium actinobacillus and enterococcus and a significant decrease in the genera faecalibacterium co- prococcusprevotellaandroseburia.comparisons between cd and uc patients revealed a greater abundance of the genera escherichia ruminococcus r. gnavus clostridium cetobacterium peptostreptococcus in cd patients and the genera faecalibacterium blautia bifi- dobacterium roseburia and citrobacter in uc patients.

comparison of the microbial communities between cd and uc patients revealed that the genera escherichia ruminococcus r. gnavus clostridium cetobacterium and peptostreptococcus were significantly more abundant in cd patients and the genera faecalibacterium blautia bifidobacterium roseburia and citrobacter were signifi- cantly more abundant in uc patients fig.

when com- paring the microbial composition between cd and uc patients potentially inflammatory microbes such as the genera escherichia and ruminococcus r. gnavus were more abundant in cd patients and potentially protective microbes such as the genera faecalibacterium blautia bifidobacterium and roseburia were more abundant in uc patients.

cd and uc may be distinguishable from the mucosa-associated microbial community structure.keywords mucosa-associated microbiome  16s rrna ibdintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd including ulcerative colitis uc and crohn's disease cd is a group of chronic intestinal disorders of multifactorial etiology -.

b all indices for a-diversity were significantly lower in uc and cd patients than in non-ibd controls although there were no significant differences between uc and cd patients.

c cd patients demonstrated the highest unifrac distances bonferroni test for multiple comparisons thereby indicating that the microbial differ- ences between cd patients and non-ibd controls are more marked than those between uc patients and non-ibd controls.we did not collect samples directly from active lesions since the mucus layer in such sites is reduced in thickness or is absent.

the abundance of the phylum firmicutes was significantly reduced in cd patients compared to uc patients and non- ibd controls although there was no significant difference between uc patients and non-ibd controls.

a comparison of cd and non-ibd controls b uc and non-ibd controls and c uc and cdstructure in patients with severe clinical activity might be influenced and disturbed by various factors such as wash-away force by watery diarrhea bleeding with serum anti-microbial proteins and increased secretion of anti-microbial peptides.one advantage of endoscopic sampling is the ability to collect multiple samples from different anatomical sites in the same patient.

a and supplementary table 1 comparison of the microbial changes between cd patients and non-ibd controls showed a significant increase in the abundance of 15 genera and a significant decrease in 40 genera in cd patients.

when comparing cd patients with non-ibd controls the proportion of genes responsible for ubiquinone and other terpenoid-quinone biosynthesis glutathione metabolism nitrogen metabolism ion-coupled transporters and lipopolysaccharide biosynthesis proteins was significantly increased in cd patients.

in this study we investigated the mucosa-associated microbial community in patients with inflammatory bowel disease ibd using endoscopic brush samples.methods a total of 174 mucus samples from 43 patients with ulcerative colitis uc 26 with crohn's disease cd and 14 non-ibd controls were obtained by gentle brushing of mucosal surfaces using endoscopic cytology brushes.

there was however a significant difference in microbial structure between cd uc and non-ibd controls.

the difference between cd and non-ibd controls was more marked than that between uc patients and non-ibd controls.

a-diver- sity was significantly lower in uc and cd patients than non-ibd controls.

the study was registered at the university hospital medical infor- mation network center umin 000024743.patients and sample collectiontwenty-six patients with cd 43 patients with uc and 14 non-ibd participants were enrolled.

