these results indicate that the dysbiosis in tsod mice led to a loss of type and quantity of scfas which may have a role in the development of metabolic syndrome in this mouse model.discussionto investigate the hypothesis that alterations in the gut microbial community may contribute to the sponta- neous development of metabolic syndrome in tsod mice we analyzed the gut microbiota and plasma scfa profiles in 24-wk-old tsod mice.

in this study we analyzed the gut microbiome and plasma scfa profiles in 24-wk-old tsod mice that had already developed insulin resistance and nash.resultsanalysis of the gut microbiome in tsod mice.

given that these pathological manifestations in tsod mice are closely related to low-grade inflam- mation we hypothesized that alterations in gut microbiota and plasma scfa profiles in tsod mice may affect a host's immune system and induce inflammation which would underlie the development of metabolic syndrome in tsod mice.

thus tsod mice may be useful for analyzing the effects of novel therapeutic agents especially those that modulate gut microbiota for the prevention and treatment of metabolic syndrome-associated hcc.the gut microbiota was reportedly significantly affected by obesity in humans and in animal models.

these data suggest that the tsod mouse is a useful model for metabolic syndrome and can manifest the characteristics of the obesity-specific gut microbiome.also among the major bacterial families we found two families in the phylum firmicutes--clostridiaceaeand erysipelotrichaceae--that showed significant increases in 24-wk-old tsod mice table .

inasmuch as the gut microbiome in tsod mice favored firmicutes species which mainly produce butyrate and did not favor bacteroidetes species which primarily produce acetate and propionate alterations in the scfa profiles in tsod mice seemed to roughly reflect the altered firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio of the microbial community.

gut dysbiosis an imbalance of gut microbiota has been implicated in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome but its mechanisms are unknown.

short-chain fatty acids scfas are the main fermentation products of gut microbiota and a link between the gut microbiota and the host's physiology.

gut dysbiosis is defined as qualitative and quantitative changes in gut microbiota metabolic activity and local distribution.

metabolic profiling reveals a contribution of gut microbiota to fatty liver phenotype in insulin-resistant mice.proc natl acad sci usa 103 12511-12516 2006.abu-shanab a.  quigley e. m. the role of the gut microbiota in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

openreceived 24 august 2017accepted 6 november 2017 published xx xx xxxxanalysis of the gut microbiome and plasma short-chain fatty acid profiles in a spontaneous mouse model of metabolic syndromekazuchika nishitsuji1 jinzhong xiao2 ryosuke nagatomo3 hitomi umemoto4yuki morimoto5 hiroyasu akatsu6 koichi inoue3  koichi tsuneyama5male tsumura suzuki obese diabetes tsod mice spontaneously develop obesity and obesity-related metabolic syndrome.

here we investigated a correlation among gut dysbiosis scfas and metabolic syndrome in tsod mice.

we thus concluded that gut dysbiosis and consequent disruptions in plasma scfa profiles occurred in metabolic syndrome-affected tsod mice.

we also propose that the tsod mouse is a useful model to study gut dysbiosis scfas and metabolic syndrome.metabolic syndrome comprises a combination of obesity-related metabolic alterations that increases the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease.

because micro- biota in fecal samples is widely accepted as a surrogate for gut microbiota we collected feces from 24-wk-old tsod male mice and tsumura suzuki non-obesity tsno mice controls and we analyzed the taxonomic compositions of the microbiota by using 16s ribosomal rna rrna gene sequencing of dna extracted from the fecal samples.

