a longitudinal study of woman followed-up during pregnancy and postpartum showed that the cervicovaginal microbiota composition is modi- fied at six weeks postpartum with increased bacterial diversity and decrease in l. crispatus moieties.based on this information we hypothesize that postpartum hiv-positive women have a highly diverse cervi- covaginal microbiota which could be associated with an increased risk for developing persistent hpv infection and consequently cin.

in a longitudinal study with samples collected over a 16-week period women with highly diverse or l. iners-dominated cervicovaginal microbiota were more likely to be hpv-positive while a microbiota dominated by l. gasseri was associated with more rapid clearance of hpv infection.the high diversity of cervicovaginal microbiota is strongly correlated with local inflammation and it is also thought to increase the risk for hiv acquisition.

addionally our results are consistent with a study that analyzed the microbiota from an hiv-negative women cohort with normal cytology which showed a persistent and highly diverse microbiota in the postpartum period of samples collected for up to one year after delivery.

openreceived 10 july 2017accepted 23 november 2017 published xx xx xxxxanalysis of the cervical microbiome and potential biomarkers from postpartum hiv-positive women displaying cervical intraepithelial lesionsgislaine curty1 raquel l. costa 1 juliana d. siqueira1 angela i. meyrelles2 elizabeth s. machado3 esmeralda a. soares1  marcelo a. soares 1the cervical microbiota composition and diversity of hiv-positive women in the postpartum period is unknown.

however the profile of such microbiota in hiv-infected women in the postpartum period remained largely unknown.in this study we identified four csts in postpartum hiv-positive women which for the sake of definition in previous reports have been named csts iii iv-a iv-b.1 and iv-b.2.

the vaginal microbiota human papillomavirus infection and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia what do we know and where are we going next microbiome 4 58 2016.ravel j. et al.

the association of uterine cervical microbiota with an increased risk for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia in korea.clinical microbiology and infection 21 1-674 2015.brotman r. m. et al.

interplay between the temporal dynamics of the vaginal microbiota and human papillomavirus detection.journal of infectious diseases 210 1723-1733 2014.anahtar m. n. et al.

in the current study we report the first data on the cervical microbiota of hiv-positive women in the postpartum period.

consistentwith previous studies of hiv-negative cohorts hiv-positive women present a stable cervical microbiota of high-diversity in the postpartum period.

therefore our study aimed to evaluate the postpartum cervical microbiota profiles of hiv-positive women displaying diverse cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.resultssociodemographic and clinical baseline characteristics.

here we demonstrated that the cervical microbiota com- munities of hiv-positive women at postpartum are stable generally presenting a high diversity of bacteria and a lack of l. crispatus dominant types.

the frequency of hpv-negative women was significantly higher at 12 months than at 6 months postpartum 8 versus 37. however the frequency of hpv-positive women with lesions lsil hsil was higher at 12 months compared to six months postpartum table .microbiome community diversity.

in the present study we showed that hiv-positive women with hpv infection at 12 months postpartum presented a higher frequency of cervical premalignant lesions than at 6 months postpartum.

our data are in agreement with previous reportsand suggest that hiv-positive women present a stable community of high-diversity bacte- ria in the postpartum period that is not altered by cin status hpv infection or time postpartum.

