this is in line with reports of a much greater role of gut microbiota on health and reactivity of our immune system and also that the food can influence the diversity of gut microbiota within short periods of time .we also observed differences in isolated primary cell stress response depending on acute stress levels animals were exposed to just before starting of the experiments.

animal nutrition and breeding conditions modify the physiology of isolated primary cellsirina milisav  blazv banicv  dusan suput a university of ljubljana faculty of medicine institute of pathophysiology zaloska 4 si-1000 ljubljana sloveniab university of ljubljana faculty of health sciences ljubljana sloveniaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 2 august 2016accepted 26 february 2017a b s t r a c t animal primary cell cultures are widely used in biomedical research to investigate cell metabolism dis- eases and to devise novel treatments.

our preliminary data imply that changes in animal nutrition and stress levels initiated up to minutes before the cell isolation could alter the cell stress response of cultured primary hepatocytes after isolation leading to differences in sensitiv- ity of apoptosis triggering.

similar results were reported by wu and coworkers  from the human study where shifting from a diet high in fat and low in fiber to a diet low in fat and high in fiber caused notable changes in the gut micro- biota within one day.

.clemente jc ursell lk parfrey lw knight r. the impact of the gut microbiota on human health an integrative view.

the human gut virome inter-individual variation and dynamic response to diet.

the effect of diet on the human gut microbiome a metagenomic analysis in humanized gnotobiotic mice.

as physiological responses of models seem to highly depend on the breeding conditions microbiome nutrition and stress levels should be systematically recorded and taken into account to ensure that the experimental models better resemble human phys- iological responses.discussionthe human body contains ten times the number of bacteria compared to its own cells and ten times more viruses than bacteria .

the consequence is that they have lower variability of their microbiota than would their wild type counterparts.upon studying apoptosis triggering in primary rat liver cells hepatocytes we have observed the quantitatively different cell responses that correlated with the animal batch andor modifica- tion of their diet.

acute and chronic corresponding author at university of ljubljana faculty of medicine institute of pathophysiology zaloska 4 si-1000 ljubljana slovenia.e-mail address i. milisav.stresses can also change cell and organ physiology.

it was reported that stress was common in caged mice .these factors have to be taken into consideration especially when investigating stress responses as they can alter cell signaling and gene expression which can influence the physiological responses of the models we're investigating.

altered gene expres- sion can have long-term effects on cell processes which are reflected in applicability fitness and limitations of the model used.

variation in these conditions may be detected as changes in the cell stress responses and stress adaptations.0306-9877c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.milisav et al.

medical hypotheses 102 2017 16-1817this has been underappreciated until now probably because the understanding of influence of microbiome and of the stress levels of the animal on distant organ physiology is just emerging.empirical data and evaluation of the hypothesiswe observed considerable differences in experimental results when studying apoptosis triggering during cell adaptation to stress in primary hepatocytes .

as the consequence the ani- mals were more resistant to general anesthesia and sometimes we had to use more anesthetic to ensure complete analgesia and hypnosis before cell isolation.

