instead overlapping systems of both formal and provisional schemes are currently in use which both facilitate and limit the study of individual microbes and communities as well as the reconstruction of ancient microbial genomes and microbiota.valid species names and microbial systematicsdespite the difficulty of defining what a microbial species is methods for granting valid microbial species names are outlined by the international code of nomenclature of bacteria set forth bythe international committee on systematics of prokaryotes icsp  98 186. this code governs all microbial taxonomic assignments at and below the linnaean rank of class 141 however only the rank of species has a formal definition a species is a category that circumscribes a preferably genomically coherent group of individual isolatesstrains sharing a high degree of similarity in many independent features comparatively tested under highly standardized conditions 179 p. 1044 see also 162. the icsp requires all new taxa to be published in the international journal of systematic and evolutionary microbiology and minimal standards for the description of new species have been established by icsp subcommittees 51. these standards include a isolation of the new species in pure culture b 16s rrna gene sequencing to establish phylogenetic position c morphological description d  chemotaxonomic characterization to establish genus affiliation e explanation of the genotypic and phenotypic basis for species differentiation and  f  deposition of the type strain in at least two permanently established culture collections in two different countries 84. genome sequencing is not currently required for the establishment of new microbial species nor is genome sequencing alone sufficient to establish a new species.

similar challenges face other microbial groups that are resistant to isolation in pure culture making them difficult to discuss and study 21 50. additionally such a standard could never be applied to ancient microbes effectively shutting the door to the possibility of discovering and naming extinct species.as a consequence of the high bar set by the icsp for obtaining a valid species name compar-atively few microbial species have been officially named and validated--15974 as of 2014 141 compared with the 645000 for which there is currently 16s rrna gene sequence evidence otus clustered at 99 in the silva ssu ref nr 99 database release 128  152 204. as a result most microbial taxa are currently nameless but not necessarily unknown.the challenge of how to devise a functioning nomenclature scheme for such a situation is clearly illustrated by the taxon table maintained by the human oral microbiome database homd a public scientific resource that curates an up-to-date list of human oral microbes 27. as of november 2016 the homd included 687 species-level oral taxa of which 335 had both a valid species name and at least one sequenced genome 36 had a valid species name and no sequenced genome 88 had no valid species name but at least one sequenced genome and 228 had no valid species name and no sequenced genome.

microeukaryotes and viruses are thus beyond the scope of this review even though noteworthy achievements have been made in the successful genetic characterization of potato late blight evolution 116 205 barley stripe mosaic virus 176 spanish influenza strains 189 early simian immunodeficiency virus 150 and seventeenth- and eighteenth-century smallpox strains 12 42.although species annotations are routinely applied to microbial taxa there is relatively little consensus on what a microbial species actually is 2 40. unlike ernst mayr's birds microbes adhere to few if any of the tenets of the biological species concept 35 72 117 and although many microbial species concepts have been proposed none have been widely accepted 2. this is largely because although microbes reproduce asexually by binary fission at a cellular level they also exchange genetic information horizontally--including across taxonomically divergent groups.

nevertheless even with full-length 16s rrna gene sequences taxonomic assignment can be problematic for some microbial groups figure 1. for example gut bacteria belonging to the family enterobacteriaceae are generally poorly resolved by 16s rrna sequences with the clinically distinctive genera escherichia salmonella shigella and klebsiella es- sentially forming one 16s rrna gene sequence cluster figure 1a whereas other groups such as the oral genera porphyromonas and tannerella are monophyletic and can be easily distinguished on the basis of 16s rrna sequences alone figure 1b.finally unlike most microbial genes the number of 16s rrna gene copies per genome is highly variable ranging from 1 to 5 in archaea and from 1 to 15 or more in bacteria 3 102. microbial rrna rrn genes are typically colocated into an operon and operon copy number is associated with microbial habitat and lifestyle 102 180. operon copy number is only weakly correlated with taxonomic ranks of genus and higher and in some cases copy number even varies within species 190. among archaea 60 of taxa have a single rrn operon but among bacteria 60 of taxa have three or more copies and up to seven copies are commonly found 3. although 16s rrna gene copies may undergo homogenization through gene conversion 68 different sequences are observed within a single species and even within a single genome.

supplemental appendix 1 provides the specific parameters used in tree construction.simultaneous pcr amplification and pooled sequencing of all 16s gene copies on a genome 90. the combined effects of multiple rrn operons per genome and different 16s rrna gene sequences per operon result in systematic skewing of relative taxonomic abundance and overestimation of microbial diversity in mixed microbial communities 190. the ribosomal rna operon copy number database rrndb maintains updated annotated lists of rrna operon copy numbers 180.other widely used methods for defining species boundaries include multilocus sequence anal- ysis and multilocus sequence typing which are similar to the method described above but rely on a panel of usually seven to ten core genes rather than focusing on a single gene 60 146 as well as genome-wide average nucleotide identity which compares the sequences of all orthologous genes in the complete genomes of species pairs 87 160. average nucleotide identity is in some ways simply a methodological update of the dna reassociation approach in which a 95-96 average nucleotide identity is roughly equivalent to a 70 dna reassociation value 87 160 however it therefore also suffers from the same problem that complete genomes are required either from cul- tivated isolates or from genomes painstakingly assembled in silico from deep-sequenced shotgun or sequence-enriched metagenomic data sets making it difficult to apply in general but especially in the context of microbial archaeology.when assigning taxonomy to metagenomic data many popular tools use a combination of core gene-focused and whole-genome data and such an approach is favored in emerging taxonomic tools such as the metagenomic intra-species diversity analysis system midas pipeline 129 which seeks to characterize strain-level differences in mixed microbial communities.

those found in 1-20 of strains and in 1 of strains are called dispensable and unique genes respectively and they are more common than accessory genes 122 183.the nonvertical transfer of dna among microbes serves as a mechanism to increase genetic diversity beyond that introduced through mutation alone and it plays a major role in microbial evolution 34 132. this fundamental process however complicates attempts to define species boundaries and to trace the evolutionary history of microbial lineages and it has led some to argue that no natural classification system can be described for microbes because their evolutionary relationships are web-like rather than tree-like 10 39. however not all taxa freely exchange genetic information 191 and not all genes transfer easily or frequently 202 203. for example monomorphic pathogens that reproduce primarily by clonal expansion show little evidence of recombination over broad timescales 1 203 and core housekeeping genes that are informational in nature rarely transfer or recombine 99. consequently the ancient genomes of monomorphic pathogens such as m. leprae and m. tuberculosis are easier to reconstruct than those of commensal taxa such as h. pylori or t. forsythia 13 112 170 196. despite the messiness of microbial phylogenies 66 however microbes generally behave as ecologically coherent entities at the levels of species genus family and order as currently defined by 16s rrna gene sequence cutoffs 148.the power and pitfalls of namesnames are powerful entities that allow microbial taxa to be discussed and analyzed in a meaningful way.

this scheme however is limited to microbes of the human oral cavity and is not generalizable to other microbiomes such as those of the human gut soil or ocean.alternatively as of march 2017 genbank 11 131 contains 14022 sequenced microbial genomes and maintains a taxonomy common tree of 23653 named and candidatus microbial species 993 archaea and 22660 bacteria that does not follow a single taxonomic treatise but rather attempts to incorporate phylogenetic and taxonomic knowledge from a variety of sources 127. by taking this pragmatic approach they are able to utilize a diverse range of existing phenotypic genetic and genomic microbial data in a common phylogenetic framework 165.taxonomy versus phylogenyalthough species names are practical entities that allow microbial taxa to be discussed and analyzed in a meaningful way they can also be misleading.

the discovery of such microbial mating systems earned the 1958 nobel prize in physiology or medicine for molecular biologist joshua lederberg 82 who incidentally later went on to popularize the term microbiome in 2001 101.at the heart of the microbial species problem is a tension between methods-based and methods- free species definitions in part reflecting philosophical differences in the fields of microbial sys- tematics and evolutionary biology.

the number of bacterial cells is estimated at 1030 108 and microbes are thought to make up half of the earth's total biomass 175. estimates ranging from millions to a trillion microbial species have been proposed 108 166 in stark contrast with current estimates of just over 8 million eukaryotic species 123. suffice it to say that relatively few of these microbes have been characterized genetically or otherwise.rather than providing definitive answers a variety of techniques have been developed to com- putationally approximate the taxonomic composition of a given microbial community from hts data an approach known as metataxonomics 113. establishing reliable methods for accurate taxonomic assignment and placement of dna sequences within a phylogenetic tree is a necessary first step in most modern and ancient microbial analyses.

here we present the outcomes of this meeting and outline a series of precautions and best practices for the emerging field of microbial archaeology.research directions in microbial archaeologyresearch directions within the growing field of microbial archaeology can generally be divided into two paths pathogenomics and microbiome studies.

first targeted pcr typically requires long 100 base pairs well-preserved dna templates which are not characteristic of the vast majority of authentic adna fragments 64 181 second ancient samples typically require a large number 35 of pcr cycles for suc- cessful target amplification which makes this approach particularly sensitive to background and environmental contamination third cloning and sanger sequencing do not allow efficient inves- tigation of template damage patterns in order to authenticate adna sequences fourth targeted pcr is particularly susceptible to amplification biases including both off-target and skewed pcr amplification as well as taxonomic dropout and finally the experimental replicability of studies using these techniques is generally low and the results have proven to be difficult to indepen- dently authenticate or validate 57 64 199 207. such problems reached a critical point in 2005 when a prominent review of adna research summed up the field of microbial archaeology as the microbial problem and largely dismissed it as a discipline 200.the advent of hts technologies in the mid-2000s presented a powerful solution to the inherent shortcomings of conventional pcr-based approaches and this new technology has dramatically influenced the field of microbial archaeology.

given that only a small fraction of microbial taxa can currently be cultivated using known techniques 147 193 this definition is poorly suited to the identification of most microbial species.

several large-scale publicly available 16s rrna gene databases are available each of which contains more than 1 million aligned reference sequences the ribosomal database project rdp 3356809 sequences 30 greengenes 2013 release 1262986 sequences 37 and silva ssu ref 1922213 sequences 152 the last of which contains entries for more than 645000 distinct bacterial taxa as defined by a 99 identity clustering cutoff for otu assignment the number of database entries is reported as of december 1 2016.as a highly conserved gene however the 16s rrna gene generally contains insufficient se- quence diversity to differentiate between closely related taxa such as different bacterial strains of the same species and rrn operon copy number variation contributes to skewed estimates of taxonomic abundance and diversity 180 190. additionally a relatively large number of reads covering the rrna locus is needed for a reliable taxonomic classification and although this is easily achievable using an amplicon approach only a small proportion 0.2-0.6 of shotgun microbial adna reads typically map to the 16s rrna gene which is simply a function of the relatively short length 1540 base pairs of the multicopy four-copy average gene compared with the average size of a microbial genome 1-3 mb.

6253-70achtman m wagner m. 2008. microbial diversity and the genetic nature of microbial species.

y. pestis for example is a close relative if not sub- species of y. pseudotuberculosis 25 a soil bacterium that has also been found in the gastrointestinal tracts of nematodes and insects 55 209 and those of birds and mammals 53 109 as well as on improperly washed vegetables 81. likewise a majority of the nearly 200 named mycobacterium species and thousands of unnamed ribosomal phylotypes are soil inhabitants 22 45 76 with the pathogenic m. tuberculosis complex m. leprae m. ulcerans m. avium and a few others making up a minority of species that regularly infect humans.

