since in recent years oxidative stress has been associated with an altered gut microbiota the effects of probiotics on intestinal flora composition are also elaborated.keywords oxidative stress antioxidant probiotic signaling pathway gut microbiotaintroductionoxidative stress refers to elevated intracellular levels of oxygen radicals that cause damage to lipids proteins and dna .

additionally recent evidence obtained by our research group also demonstrated that probiotic bacillus amyloliquefaciens sc06 ameliorated the h2o2-induced ipec-1 oxidative stress by decreasing ros levels and regulating nrf2 expressions  table .nfkbthe first eukaryotic transcription factor shown to respond directly to oxidative stress was nfkb .

athletes exposed to oxidative stress might benefit from the ability of lactobacillus rhamnosus to increase antioxidant levels and neutralize the effects of reactive oxygen species .modes of action of probiotic bacteria in antioxidationduring the past decades studies have demonstrated that different probiotic bacteria strains could exert antioxidant capacity in different ways.

2013 92 956-965.  asemi z. zare z. shakeri h. sabihi s.s. esmaillzadeh a. effect of multispecies probiotic supplements on metabolic profiles hs-crp and oxidative stress in patients with type 2 diabetes.

nutrition 2012 28 539-543.  pompei a. cordisco l. amaretti a. zanoni s. matteuzzi d. rossi m. folate production by bifidobacteriaas a potential probiotic property.

2005 2 121-127. kullisaar t. songisepp e. aunapuu m. kilk k. arend a. mikelsaar m. rehema a. zilmer m. complete glutathione system in probiotic lactobacillus fermentum me-3.

2011 62 1097-1103.  wang y. wu y. wang y. fu a. gong l. li w. li y. bacillus amyloliquefaciens sc06 alleviates the oxidative stress of ipec-1 via modulating nrf2keap1 signaling pathway and decreasing ros production.

it is believed that excessive amounts of ros can cause genomic instability  leading to a variety of chronic diseases including atherosclerosis arthritis diabetes alzheimer's disease neurodegenerative diseases and cardiovascular diseases -.however it is worth noting that in addition to oxidative stress when maintained at proper cellular concentrations ros are important for cell signaling roles .

luo l. wolfarth a. scharer c. ardita c. reedy a. keebaugh e. neish a. lactobacilli modulate epithelial cytoprotection through the nrf2 pathway.

hencenutrients 2017 9 521 doiwith the increasing popularity of probiotic bacteria we set out the antioxidant properties of probiotic bacteria and underscore their mode of action in this review.reactive oxygen speciesexcept for anaerobic organisms oxygen is essential for all animals and plants.

probiotic bifidobacterium is also a very commonly used probiotic bacterium.

moreover probiotic mixture vsl3 could inhibit nfkb and induce heat shock proteins in colonic epithelial cells  table .table 1. summary of antioxidant signaling pathways mediated by probiotic bacteria.speciessignaling pathwayhostreferencesbacillus amyloliquefaciens sc06clostridium butyricum miyairi 588nrf2-keap1-areipec-1 cell line ratslactobacillus plantarum cai6 sc4micelactobacillus plantarum fc255micebacillus lbp32raw 264.7 macrophages vsl3colonic epithelial cellslactobacillus rhamnosus ggcaco-2 cell linemapkmitogen-activated protein kinases mapks includes four subfamilies the best characterized of which are the extracellular regulated protein kinases erks c-jun n-terminal kinase jnks and p38-mapk these can be activated by a variety of stimuli .

additionally the gsh level and biosynthesis of gsh were also enhanced in rats treated with probiotics in order to reduce oxidative stress in experimental acute pancreatitis .antioxidant signaling pathway mediated by probiotic bacterianrf2-keap1-area well-studied system for transducing exogenous stimuli into eukaryotic transcriptional responses is the nrf2-keap1-are pathway.

in recent years both in vivo and in vitro reports have indicated that probiotic bacteria could protect against oxidative stress through regulating the nrf2-keap1-are pathway.

in a very recent study in parallel with the improved intestinal endotoxemia probiotic supplementation consisting of bifidobacterium infantis lactobacillus acidopilus and bacillus cereus increased the levels of these anaerobic bacteria but decreased the abundance of escherichia coli and enterococcus in the fecal sample of rats fed a high-sugar and high-fat diet .conclusionsthe past few years have witnessed a tremendous growth in our knowledge concerning the beneficial effects of probiotics especially those important in mediating responses to oxidative stress.

