moreover the highest prevalence of e. coli strains showing mdr was distributed into the phylogenetic group a 3474 45.9 followed by groups b1 1674 21.6 b2 1374 17.6 and d 1174 14.9. most esbl-producing e. coli strains belonged to phylogenetic groups a 310 30 and b1 410 40.virulence gene profiledistribution of virulence genes associated with dec was examined and the result is shown in table 2. of 103 e. coli strains none of the strains were positive for bfpa est stx1 stx2 inve and daad genes.

furthermore 13 of the mdr e. coli strains belonged to phylogenetic group b2 suggesting that these strains might have a potential virulence capacity and could pose a risk to public health.furthermore virulence gene profile analysis indicated that indeed 18 e. coli strains carried one or two virulence genes associated with dec table 2. among 11 virulence genes tested asta was most prevalent and some of the strains carried eae eaf elt and eagg in addition to asta.

radioactivity was visualized by the bas fla-3000 system ge healthcare tokyo japan.phylogenetic characterizationphylogenetic group of e. coli strains was determined by using a multiplex pcr as reported previously .detection of virulence genes for diarrheagenic e. colia total of 103 e. coli strains were analyzed for the presence of virulence genes associated with diarrheagenic e. coli dec including eae e. coli-attaching and effacing bfpa bundle-forming pilus eaf enteropathogenic e. coli adherence factor elt heat-labile enterotoxin est heat-stable enterotoxin eagg plasmid of enteroaggregative e. coli asta enteroaggregative e. coli heat-stable enterotoxin 1 stx1 shiga toxin 1 stx2 shiga toxin 2 inve and daad by colony hybridization assay using respectiveprobe labeled with a-32p-dctp perkin elmer as described previously .resultsantimicrobial susceptibilitya total of 103 e. coli strains including 73 from urban districts and 30 from suburban district were successfully isolated from 103 healthy adults in ho chi minh city vietnam and further analyzed for their antimicrobial susceptibility to 13 different drugs including amp ctx caz ipm nal cip gen kan str fos tet sxt and chl.

there was no significant difference in rate of mdr of e. coli strains isolated from healthy adults in urban 5473 74.0 and suburban districts 2030 66.7.esbl characterization and its genotypesince 51 5 and 11 e. coli strains were resistant to amp alone amp and ctx amp ctx and caz respectively these strains might produce esbl.

moreover among the 5 strains harboring both blactx-m and blatem genes 3 strains carried these genes on the same plasmid data not shown.phylogenetic characterizationwe further examined the 103 e. coli strains for phylogenetic group.

the results of antimicrobial susceptibility in this study are in accordance with a previous study of healthy children in filabavi near hanoi vietnam except for cip  in which only 6 antimicrobials such as amp cip chl nal tet and sxt were examined and the isolated e. coli strains were resistant to amp 65 tet 74 chl 40 nal 27 and sxt 68. however1 of the e. coli strains isolated in filabavi were resistant to cip  although 15.5 strains were resistant to cip in this study.

one e. coli strain was collected from each sample and used for further analysis.determination of antimicrobial susceptibilityantimicrobial susceptibility of the e. coli strains against ampicillin amp cefotaxime ctx ceftazidime caz imipenem ipm nalidixic acid nal ciprofloxacin cip gentamicin gen kanamycin kan streptomycin str fosfomycin fos tetracycline tet trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole sxt and chloramphenicol chl was examined by disk diffusionmethod  on mueller-hinton agar becton dickinson and co. sparks nv u.s.a. using commercially available disks becton dickinson and co.. charaterization of e. coli strains as susceptible intermediate resistant or resistant was based on the size of the inhibition zones according to the clinical and laboratory standards institute clsi guidelines .

as shown in table 1 most of the e. coli strains were resistant to str 80.6 tet 67.0 amp 65.0 sxt 48.5 and nal 43.7 although all e. coli strains were susceptible to ipm.

moreover five ctx-m-positive e. coli strains additionally possessed blatem genes but none of the strains were positive for the blashv genes.

analysis of genotype for the blactx-m genestable 1. antimicrobial resistant e. coli strains isolated from healthy adults fecal samples n103a ampicillin b cefotaxime c ceftazidime d imipenem e nalidixic acid f ciprofloxacin g gentamicin h kanamycin i streptomycin j fosfomycink tetracycline l trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole m chloramphenicol.table 2. characteristics of e. coli strains isolated from the fecal samples of healthy adults carrying esbl andor virulence genesisolate idplacephylogeneticgroupvirulence geneaantimicrobial resistance phenotypeb-lactamase geneslocation ofblactx-me33district 3andbamp-ctx-cazblactx-m-1 blatemplasmida eaea e. coli-attaching and effacing eaf enteropathogenic e. coli adherence factor elt heat-labile enterotoxin eagg plasmid of enteroaggregativee.

however asta was most prevalent and detected in 15 strains followed by eaf n5 elt n3 eagg n2 and eae n1 indicating that some of the e. coli strains isolated fromhealthy adults are potentially virulent to human.

besides 8 7 and 3 e. coli strains harboring virulence genes belonged to the phylogenetic groups a b1 and d respectively table 2. furthermore 2 out of these 18 e. coli strains harboring virulence genes were isolated from healthy adults in suburban districts.discussionemergence of antimicrobial resistant bacteria has been increasingly recognized as a serious problem in the world.

surprisingly 72 of the e. coli strains were mdr and furthermore 42 of the e. coli strains were extensive mdr.

notably the majority of mdr e. coli strains in this study belonged to phylogenetic group a 3474 strains.

on the other hand there are several reports regarding association of e. coli containing only asta among various virulence genes for dec with a few outbreaks all over the world  indicatingmdr e. coli having dec-associated virulence genes in particular asta-positive mdr e. coli strains might be harmful to human.in conclusion most of the e. coli strains isolated from healthy adults in ho chi minh city vietnam are mdr including extensive mdr.

