Despite E. gallinarum has not been associated with gallstone-induced obstructive AP in patients a retrospective analysis of 56 cases of bacteremia caused by E. casseliflavus or E. gallinarum found these pathogens to be associated with biliary tract disease .The present study provides evidence that the meropenem- induced fast mortality of AP mice is associated with the translo- cation of pathobionts such as E. gallinarum.

gallinarum infectionEnterococcus gallinarum FMC012174 was isolated from the blood of the AP mice that were pre-exposed to meropenem.

E. gallinarum was positive for the VanC1 gene Figure S4 in Supplementary Material  and showed low resistance to vancomycin MIC  6-8 ugmL intermedi- ate resistance to meropenem zone of inhibition  16 mm and high resistance to clindamycin ceftriaxone and streptomycin zone of inhibition  0 mm but E. gallinarum was sensitive to ampicillin zone of inhibition  30 mm.

gallinarum-recolonized Mice show increased Disease severity following aPTo investigate the existence of a possible link between E. gallinarum and the severity of AP the intestinal microbiota of mice were sup- pressed with a cocktail of broad-spectrum antibiotics  and repopulated with a fecal or E. gallinarum suspension .

Taken together these results indicate that E. gallinarum is sufficient to exacerbate the severity of AP.To determine if isolated E. gallinarum induces sepsis in naive mice Wt animals were challenged with these bacteria and the survival rates were analyzed.

Since E. gallinarum could induce cellular activationthrough a TLR26-dependent pathway  and since this recep- tor plays a pivotal role in mortality during severe sepsis  we challenged TLR2-deficient mice with E. gallinarum.

gallinarum is sufficient to induce severe disease in AP mice.Enterococcus gallinarum promoted lethality in naive mice through a TLR2-dependent mechanism.

Together with the spread of E. gallinarum into the bloodstream the mero- penem pretreatment of AP mice also increased E. gallinarum in the small intestine.

Early mortality was associated with the translocation of MDR strains mainly Enterococcus gallinarum into the blood stream.

Induction of AP in mice with guts that were enriched with E. gallinarum recapitulated the increased mortality rate observed in the meropenem- pretreated AP mice.

