four distinct niches representing gut placenta maternal oral and infant oral microbiota were present in the pca analysis demonstrating the critical role of the varying physicochemical characteristics of the different sites in defining bacterial composition r  0.88 p  0.001. when comparing the bacterial community distances between the niches there was less distance between the bacterial communities of the maternal and neonatal oral microbiota compared to the placental and gut microbiota p  0.0001 1b.

bacterial source tracking analyses were also used to examine the similarity of the maternal oral and gut microbiota as well as the placental microbiota to the infant's oral microbiota.

these analyses showed that the neonatal oral microbiota profile is comprised principally of maternal oral microbiota 65.35 and otus of unknown environmental origin 31.56. neither pla- cental 3.09 nor maternal gut otus 0 were prominent in the neonate oral microbiota 1c.

the cohort was divided into two groups based on similarity of the infant oral microbiota to the maternal oral microbiota the high-similarity group which had a similarity above the median similarity of 92.8 median 98.8 iqr 95.6-00 n 19 and the low similarity group which had a similarity below the median of 92.8 median 22.0 iqr 5.7-55.4 n 17 and supplementary table 1.although taxa assigned to the firmicutes and proteobacteria phyla were the most prevalent members of the neonatal oral microbiota supplementary figure 3 in both similarity groups they could be clearly differenti- ated from each other.

d proportion of maternal oral microbiota blue and unknown source of environment grey in each neonates oral microbiota using bacterial source tracking.different family level phylotypes were detected in the neonatal oral microbiota r  0.52 p  0.001 supplementary figure 5. the high-similarity group was significantly enriched with the families gemellaceae and streptococcaceae and the order lactobacillales.

two distinct neonatal oral microbiota profiles were observed one strongly resembling the maternal oral microbiota and one with less similarity.

disruption of microbiota transmission from mother to infant has been associated with obe- sity type i diabetesasthmaand neurodevelopmentlater in life.identifying pioneer colonizers is essential to elucidate the early stages of microbiota development.

despite the obvious influence of the mother's oral microbiota on most of the neonate profiles we still observed diversity across the cohort with respect to the degree of overlap between a mother's and infant's oral microbiota profiles.

infants oral microbiota was subdivided into 2 groups based on high similarity in taxonomy group 1 n 19 or less similarity group 2 n 17 to their corresponding maternal oral microbiota.

the source of the initial neonatal microbiome and the factors dictating initial human oral microbiota development are unknown.

expression of five antibiotic resistance genes of the b-lactamase class was analysed in the infant oral microbiota samples by qpcr.

the neonatal oral microbiota was 65.35 of maternal oral 3.09 of placental 31.56 of unknown and 0 of maternal gut origin.

the presence of bacterial communities in meconium amniotic fluid placenta fetal membranesand the fact that the maternal microbiota is needed to shape offspring's immune system all point to a host-microbial interaction in utero.

optimal infant intestinal establishment begins with oral inoculation by maternal microbiota highlighting the importance of the oral-systemic connection in infants.the first microbial colonizers of the oral cavity in the first day of life stimulate changes in the oral cavity that favour the growth of subsequent specieswith species from the genus streptococcus predominating the initial oral microbial load.

the acquisition of the first microbial colonizers may be altered by multiple maternal and infant factors which may result in differences in oral microbiota development.

