the composition of the gimb is associated to the degree of ''colonisation resistance'' which is altered after an antibiotic exposure thereby increasing susceptibility to colonisation by path- ogenic bacteria .new diagnostic testsbroad antimicrobial coverage to ensure adequate treat- ment and optimal survival in critically ill patients is acknowledged as a major argument for antibiotic overuse in the hospital setting resulting in continuous pressure towards selection of resistance  .rapidity and acuity of microbiological diagnosis may impact significantly on as and antibiotic consumption.

however it seems to be a promising diagnostic approach to reduce antimicrobial resistance by 2050.how to fight antimicrobial resistance in the future at the present time antibiotics are the primary anti- infective solution for patients with known or suspected mdr bacteria in the icu.

moreover eligobiotics could also be used to vaccinate susceptible bacteria against resistance genes thereby teaching the former how to recognise and degrade bacteria when they meet.

finally it is likely that novel mechanisms of resistance that occur in response to selection by existing or new anti- biotic classes are likely to emerge and even disseminate globally perhaps in a manner similar to plasmid-mediated colistin resistance provided by mcr-1 gene .staphylococcus aureus and particularly methicillin- resistant s. aureus mrsa remains a cardinal cause of hcais worldwide.

unlike mrsa for which resistance remains uncommon linezolid resistance or daptomy- cin non-susceptibility is becoming an important consid- eration when treating patients.

how to effectively control this organism remains unclear.future perspectives to limit the spreadof antimicrobial resistance from now to 2050the evolution of the numerous and diverse micro- and macro-level resistance determinants makes it verychallenging to predict what the situation will be in 2050 .

.antimicrobial resistance in 2050in the last decade antibiotic stewardship as and infec- tion prevention and control ipc measures have been unable to prevent the rapid spread of resistant gram-neg- ative bacteria gnb in particular carbapenem-resistant pseudomonas aeruginosa and other non-fermenting gnb extended-spectrum b-lactamase esbl-produc- ing and carbapenem-resistant enterobacteriaceae cre notably due to carbapenemases.

there are cur- rently several promising avenues available to fight antibi- otic resistance table .the intestinal microbiota is the battlefield of the war against mdrin our battle against mdr bacteria our intestinal micro- biota could be our best ally provided that it remains unal- tered.

interestingly our intestinal microbiota is resistant to the sustained colonisation by exogenous bacteria including the mdr ones which is referred to as colo- nisation resistance cr  .

so the potential for oral administration or inter- nal use may be hamperedefflux pump inhibitormolecules to inhibit the active protein pump in the bacterial cellthe major advantage of efflux pump inhibitors is the possibility for slower develop-ment of resistance by the target bacteria.

as a consequence antibiotic exposure has potentially a dual side effect on the microbiota alteration of cr and selection of resist- ant bacteria over the susceptible ones which together pave the way for the intestinal acquisition and expansion of mdr bacteria -.

nonetheless further studies aimed at identifying the precise bacterial strains and specific functions associated to the clearance of mdr bacteria will be the prerequisite to designing a bacterial consortium capable of eradicating mdr bacteria from the git.

they can either stay in the chromosome of their host their dna being replicated along with that of the bacteria lysogenic cycle or they can replicate in the cytoplasm of the bacteria make dozens of virions and lyse the bac- terial cell in order to disseminate and infect other sur- rounding hosts in an exponential fashion lytic cycle .

hence bacteria located at locations deep in the body and intracellular bacteria may barely be accessible to phages even though a precise injection of phage may be possible in some cases.

intensive care med 2017 431464-1475doi 10.1007s00134-017-4878-xantimicrobial resistance in thenext 30 years humankind bugs and drugs a visionary approachmatteo bassetti1 garyphallia poulakou2 etienne ruppe3 emilio bouza4567 sebastian j. van hal8 and adrian brink910c 2017 springer-verlag gmbh germany and esicmintroductionseveral factors contribute to the high incidence of sepsis in the intensive care unit icu and to the associated poor patient outcomes.

