aureus KCTC-1621 cells treated with jineol at MIC further confirmed its inhibitory potential against the tested pathogens suggesting its role as an effective antimicrobial to control foodborne pathogens.Keywords antimicrobial effect jineol foodbrone pathogens scanning electron microscopyINTRODUCTIONFoodborne illnesses caused by foodborne pathogenic bacteria affect a huge number of population world-wide.

In the USA foodborne pathogens have been reported to be the cause of 75 of the foodborne disease outbreaks involving 68 of all reported cases of foodborne illness  .

Among several studied foodborne pathogens to some extent Escherichia coli O157H7 and Staphylococcus aureus are known to be causative agents of foodborne diseases.

The development of resistance of foodborne pathogens in the commercial antibiotics and the emergence of new strains are widespread concerns  .Staphylococcus aureus possess the ability to produce enterotoxins as well as contributes in hospital-acquired diseases and food-poisoning thus considered a serious foodborne pathogen among others  .

This can be encountered by the phenomenon that the hydrophilic thick cell wall of Gram-negative bacteria made by lipopolysaccharide has ability to block and avoid the accumulation of jinol in the target cell membrane than the single membrane cell wall structure of Gram-positive bacteria which might be more permeable to the jineol  .The jineol shows the variable MIC and MBC value against the both the foodborne pathogens and the similar reports have confirmed antibacterial efficacy of quinoline alkaloid derivatives in MIC assay which found to elicit significant antibacterial effects against various foodborne pathogenic bacteria with varied MIC and MBC values  .

Also isoquinoline alkaloids isolated from the rhizome Coptis chinensis were found to exhibit a remarkable inhibitory effect in MIC assay against various pathogens including S. aureus and E. coli  .The exposure of jineol to pathogen for 160 and 200 min completely inhibited the growth of both the tested pathogens.

8552. doi This study was undertaken to assess the antibacterial potential of 38- dihydroxyquinoline jineol isolated from Scolopendra subspinipes mutilans against selected foodborne pathogens Escherichia coli O157H7 and Staphylococcus aureus KCTC-1621.

Development of natural alternative means as safe antimicrobials is essential in combating serious foodborne pathogens which pose significant threat to humans  .

E. coli O157H7 has the ability to produce Shiga toxin thereby causes bloody diarrhea and sometimes kidney failure  .Consumers the food industry and the regulatory authorities are concerned about the safety of food from the contamination by foodborne pathogens  .

Additionally in Canada a worth of approximately500 million dollars is imposed on the treatment of diseases caused by foodborne pathogens surviving on meat or meat- products  .

