only 25 of the patients had a charlson comorbidity index of 0 and the majority of isolates came from patients in the interval 2 61.5. isolates with reduced antimicrobial susceptibility and isolates with no growth of b. fragilis group bacteria generally came from patients with a higher charlson index than susceptible isolates albeit this was a non-significant trend.it was not possible to extract data on antimicrobial exposure from the department of intensive care however it is assumed that treatment with antibiotics at the department of intensive care would be continued as patients were discharged to ordinary wards.

the amount of samples equals the amount of patients in the study.table 1characteristics of the patients in the cohort by resistance profile of isolated b. fragilis group bacteria.charlson index 1-217 2518 3420 27charlson index 239 5722 4240 53a non susceptible patients who had at least one isolate that was intermediate susceptible or resistant.b susceptible patients where no isolates were intermediate susceptible or resistant.c no growth patients where no b. fragilis group bacteria were isolated from faecal sample.antibiotics 28 11 5 and 1 were intermediate susceptible or resistant to clindamycin piperacillin-tazobactam meropenem and metronidazole respectively .three strains resistant to metronidazole were isolated b. fragilis mic 8 mgl b. ovatusxylanisolvens mic 24 mgl and par- abacteroides distasonis mic 8 mgl.

fragilis group bacteria with 23 of the patients being from the department of oncology 36 from the department of infectioustable 3patient antimicrobial exposure per isolate.diseases and 41 from the department of haematology.of the 122 patients with samples growing b. fragilis group bacteria 78 64 patients had previously antimicrobial therapy whilst the total was 65 87 of the 75 patients with samples without growth p 0.0006. of these 75 59 47 had receivedpiperacillin-tazobactam 24 32 had received meropenem 30 40 had received metronidazole and two 3 had received clindamycin.

median ages were higher for patients with non-susceptible isolates than for patients with susceptible isolates or with samples with no growth of b. fragilis group bacteria.

patients with a non-susceptible isolate or a sample with no growth of b. fragilis group bacteria displayed a tendency to have a higher charlson comorbidity scores compared to patients with susceptible isolates .a total of 359 isolates from 122 samples were identified asb.

the objectives of this study were to 1 investigate the distribution of species and the occurrence of reduced antimicrobial susceptibility in the b. fragilis group from patients treated at departments with a high level of antibiotic use 2 to determine the prevalence of the carbapenem resistance gene cfia in b. fragilis in this patient group and 3 to determine the association between previous antibiotic treatment and reduced susceptibility to clindamycin meropenem metroni- dazole and piperacillin-tazobactam in the b. fragilis group in the patient group.

applying a definition of non- duplicate isolates as isolates with different species identification andor different antimicrobial susceptibility seventy-four patients would have possible duplicates of isolates in our data data not shown.

isolates with reduced susceptibility and samples without growth of b. fragilis group bacteria generally came from patients with a higher charlson index than samples with suscep- tible isolates.

the objectives of this study were to 1 investigate the distribution of species and the occurrence of reduced antimicrobial susceptibility in the b. fragilis group from patients treated at departments with a high level of antibiotic use 2 to determine the prevalence of the car- bapenem resistance gene cfia in b. fragilis in this patient group and 3 to determine the association between previous antibiotic treatment and reduced susceptibility to clindamycin meropenem metro- nidazole and piperacillin-tazobactam.consecutive faecal samples n 14 197 were collected from patients at the departments of haematology oncology and infectious diseases at odense university hospital denmark.

non-duplicate isolates within a sample were defined as isolates with different species identifica- tion or same species with different susceptibility patterns than other isolates from the same faecal sample.data sources and statistical analysisdata on antibiotic exposure were extracted from the region southern denmark hospital medicine administration database and the odense pharmaco-epidemiological database oped .

fragilis 18. of the tested isolates 134 37 isolates from 69 patients showed reduced susceptibility to one or more of the fourfig.

of the 102 clindamycin resistant isolates from 53 patients two patients had received clindamycin prior to the collection of the sample .

of the 17 isolates from seven patients with reduced susceptibility to meropenem 13 76 orig- inated from patients exposed to meropenem.

it cannot be ruled out that the patients might have been treated with metronidazole outside the region of southern denmark but it is unlikely as there is little patient transfer outside of the region.in this study 102 isolates from 53 patients were observed to be clindamycin resistant.

the proportion of b. fragilis belonging to division ii cfiath was 5.3. previous exposure to meropenem was associated with reduced susceptibility to meropenem p14 0.001.in conclusion antimicrobial resistance is prevalent and the distribution of species appears to be affected in the b. fragilis group from patients receiving broad-spectrum antibiotics with meropenem exposure being associated with meropenem resistance.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionthe anaerobe bacteroides fragilis group bacteria represent one of the largest groups of bacteria in the human gut microbiota.

