.antibiotic resistance rate of air-borne bacterial pathogens antibiotic resistance range of 7.5 up to 87.5 was detected among gram-positive isolates of which cons showed a high level of resistance for chloramphenicol 68.1 and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole 66.7. s. aureus isolates depicted 87.5 resistance to chloram- phenicol and 28 38.9 were mrsa isolates.

though isolates were not identi- fied from patients in this study the role of contaminated indoor air could be pathogenic if contact is established with patients it is pertinent that their presence should be controlled.abbreviationsdr delivery room icu intensive care unit mdr multi drug resistant ot operation theatre tmp-sxt trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole wsutrh wolaita sodo university teaching referral hospital.authors' contributionsfs conceived the study fs ar ya and fw participated in the design of the study and performed the statistical analysis fs fw interpreted the data fs obtained ethical clearance and permission for study fw supervised data collectors fs fw drafting the article or revisiting it critically for important intellectual content.

cons andtable 2 multi drug resistant pattern of airborne gram positive bacterial isolates in wsutrh november-march 2015max maximum number of resistance pattern min minimum number of resistance patterntable 3 multi-drug resistance pattern of airborne gram negative bacterial pathogens in wsutrh from november- march 2015bacteriaquantity antibiotic patternno classp.

showed resistant for trimethoprim-sulfamethoxa- zole 77.5 and ampicillin 70. eight isolates in this study were vancomycin-resistant enterococci vre.gram-negative bacterial isolates showed resistance ranging from 15.4-87 of which acinetobacter spp.

eighty per- cent of e. coli isolates were having multi-drug resistancetable 1 antimicrobial resistance pattern of airborne bacterial pathogens of nosocomial importance in wsutrh novem- ber-march 2015amk amikacin amp ampicillin amx amoxicillin amo-cla amoxicillin-clavulinic acid cf cefoxitin cro ceftriaxone cfz ceftazidime cph cephalothin caf chloramphenicol cip ciprofloxacin da clindamycin dox doxycycline ert erythromycin cn gentamicine imp imipenem nor norfloxacin pen penicillin tmp-sxt trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole van vancomycin nd not doneof which 11.1 of the isolates depicted mdr pattern of ampicillin  amoxicillin-clavulanic acid  cepha- lothin  ciprofloxacin  trimethoprim-sulfamethoxa- zole table .discussioncons and s. aureus identified in this study is in line with previous findings conducted in ethiopia   nigeria  kashmir  nepal  and iran .

a higher num- ber of resistances to effective antibiotics like ceftazi- dime 23.1 and imipenem 38.5 to acinetobacter are a major public health problem since their disclosure could possibly lead to a therapeutic impasse in the hospital.higher levels of p. aeruginosa resistance were noticed for tmp-sxt 69.2 gentamicin 61.5 and ceftriaxone 61.5 which is comparable with the study conducted in ethiopia  of which 95 62.5 and 58.2 resistance were detected on tmp-sxt gentamicin and ceftriaxone anti- biotics respectively.conclusions and recommendationhigher prevalence airborne bacteria of clinical concern cons s. aureus enterococci spp.

imi- penem ceftazidime and ciprofloxacin resistance p. aer- uginosa isolates with the rate of resistance 38.5 23.1 and 76.9 were also isolated respectively table .mdr pattern of gram-positive airborne bacterial pathogensseventy-five percent of all bacterial pathogens were multi-drug resistant mdr of which 74.6 were gram positive and 84 were gram negative.

this could be due to the use of active air sampling in taiwan hospital and difference in ward and number of patients attended in reference to khartoum hospital as compared and e. coli is one of the commonest causes of urinary tract infections 35 prevalence in the study set- ting where e. coli accounts 31.4 and is commonly pre- sent in appendix abscess peritonitis cholecystitis septic wounds and bedsores bacteraemia and endotoxic shock particularly in surgical or otherwise debilitated patients .pseudomonas aeruginosa prevalence 5.3 in this study is relatively comparable with other similar study in north ethiopia  but much less than 28  and 52  reported previously which could be due to thedifference in methodology sampling place or magnitude of nosocomial infection in specific localities.

high level of airborne bacteria in the hospital is an alarming call since these settings are places where actual surgical procedures severely sick and post-surgical reha- bilitated patients are admitted and delivery services are handled.antibiotic resistant infections add considerable and avoidable costs to the health care system of which it adds 20 billion usd in excess direct health care cost with addi- tional costs to low society of productivity as high as 35 billion usd .thirty-nine percent of mrsa prevalence in the current study is higher than 26.6  18.1  and 7.7  reported in ethiopia which could be explained by differ- ence in sampling site where most of the resistant isolates in the current study were identified in the intensive care unit where repeated exposure to antibiotics is admin- istered.

the emer- gence of resistance to antimicrobial agents is a global public health problem particularly in pathogens causing nosocomial infections which contributed to the morbid- ity mortality increased health care costs resulting from treatment failures and longer hospital stays  .the emergence of multi-drug resistant mdr strains in a hospital environment particularly in developing countries is an increasing infection control problem pre- sented a challenge in the provision of good quality patient care associated with high frequency of hospital acquired infections of which emergence and reemergence of dif- ficult-to-treat nosocomial infections in patients with increased antibiotic resistance rate  .frequently encountered mdr bacteria methicillin- resistant s. aureus cephalosporins and extended spec- trum beta-lactamase producing enterobacteriaceae ceftazidime-resistant p. aeruginosa imipenem-resistanta.

high prevalence of mrsa strains from the environment 39 could become the main factors for 51 resistance rate from clinical isolates.seventy 70 and 75 resistance prevalence for ampicil- lin and penicillin g enterococci spp.

showed the highest rate of resistance with a minimum resistance of 61.5 this could pos- sibly be due to the bacterial ability to resist many anti- biotics or could possibly be due to selective pressure or abusing of the drugs in the hospital where 86.6 prevalence were recorded for commonest antibiotics like ciprofloxacin and gentamicin.

in this study has a great implication since these antibiotics are preferable in the treatment of enterococcal infections  and the growing incidence of infections is a great concern due to multidrug resistance.

effective and new antibiotics like ceftazidime and imi- penem resistance for the study area in the hospital air could be projected to the patients and could pose major problem for antibiotic stewardship programs.

seventy-three 73.6 cons became mdr of which two isolates depicted pan- resistance.

