Microbiol.2002 178 180-192.Li M. Wang B. Zhang M. Rantalainen M. Wang S. Zhou H. Zhang Y. Shen J. Pang X. Zhang M. Wei H. Chen Y. Lu H. Zuo J. Su M. Qiu Y. Jia W. Xiao C. Smith L. M. Yang S. Holmes E. Tang H. Zhao G. Nicholson J. K. Li L. Zhao L. Symbiotic gut microbes modulate human metabolic phenotypes.

Kynurenine was detected in plasma by LC-MS and in urine only by NMR .Differential Plasma and Urinary MetabolomesAmong the four compounds showing differential abundance in both plasma and urine 3-phenyllactic acid and 4-hydroxyphe- nylacetic acid from phenylalanine metabolism were found at lower levels in AB pigs while nicotinamide and residual mannitol showed higher levels in AB pigs.

N- Acetylation of phenylalanine is a conjugation pathway catalyzed by N-acetyltransferases and shared by both mammals and bacteria for example in E. coli K12.The reduced N-acetyl-L- phenylalanine level in the urine of AB pigs may result from decreased bacterial formation and lower intestinal permeability as indicated by the lower ratio of lactulose and mannitol.Catabolites of tryptophan in plasma from two different pathways were differentially affected in AB piglets B.Kynurenine 3-hydroxykynurenine and nicotinamide from the kynurenine pathway and N1-methylnicotinamide a metabolite of nicotinamide showed increased levels in AB pigs whereas 5- hydroxyindoleacetic acid 5-HIAA from the serotonin pathway decreased  .

In plasma three and one metabolite were found with higher and lower level in AB pigs respectively while all five metabolites identified in urine had higher levels in AB pigs.

Bacterial overgrowth in the small intestine increases the blood level of cholic acid while germ-free mice had a lower serum level of total bile acids than conventional ones.Thus the relative difference in bile acids between AB and the untreated pigs found here can be attributed to several factors intestinal inflammation and overgrowth of intestinal bacteria in the untreated pigs andthe attenuation of the gut microbiome in AB pigs.

2009561-1731.UPLC-qTOF MSTwenty-two heparin-treated plasma samples AB n  10 untreated n  12 and 13 urine samples AB n  7 untreated n  6 were applied to LC-MS analysis following the protocol previously reported.In brief protein in the plasma samples was removed using the Sirocco Protein Precipitation Plate Waters Milford MA USA.

Hypoxanthine was also detected in a peak together with 1-methylnicotinamide at higher urinary level in AB pigs .Metronidazole ampicillin and other AB-related metabolites were only observed in the AB pigs .

The spectra were accumulated at 300 K urine or 310 K plasma employing the noesygppr1d pulse sequence with presaturation of the water resonance during the relaxation delay and mixing time with an acquisition time of 2.66 s urine or 1.83 s plasma a recycle delay of 4 s 32 scans and a spectral width of 20 ppm urine or 30 ppm plasma which resulted in 65536 complex data points.

This underscores the need for further inves- tigation of metabolic and developmental consequences of antibiotic treatment in preterm neonates.ASSOCIATED CONTENTS Supporting InformationThe Supporting Information is available free of charge on the at DOI .Chemical standards used for metabolite verification of metabolite annotation in LC-MS number of features at different analytical steps in LC-MS-based approach antibiotics and their metabolites in plasma and urine detected by LC-MS antibiotics and their metabolites in plasma and urine detected by NMR unannotated features in plasma and urine detected by NMR compounds putatively annotated at level 2 by LC-MS- based approach compounds putatively annotated at level 3 by LC-MS-based approach NEC incidence scores and microbiological data of sample selections PCA score plots of NMR data AUTHOR INFORMATIONCorresponding AuthorE-mail .

EDTA-treated plasma AB n  10 untreated n  11 was mixed with equal volume of buffer containing 20 D2O 0.1 TSP 0.04 NaN3 and 1.5 molL KH2PO4 with pH adjusted to 7.4.The one-dimensional 1H NMR spectra of the urine and plasma samples were acquired on a Bruker Avance-III 600 Spectrometer equipped with a SampleJet Bruker Biospin Rheinstetten Germany operating at a proton frequency of600.13 MHz 14.1 T using a double-tuned TCI probe cryoprobe with 5 mm sample tubes.

