in a recent multicentre study involving 121 patients using procalcitonin pct as a guide to terminating antibiotic treatment it was demonstrated that antibiotic treatment can safely be withdrawn on day 5 even in severe patients provid- ed that the focus is controlled showing a 50 reduction in the duration of antibiotic treatment10.regarding empirical treatment figure 1 we must bear in mind that any proposed antibiotic treatment regimen should cover anaerobic microorganisms.

among the most relevant factors are the following the origin of the peri- tonitis perforation of upper gastrointestinal tract the type of peritonitis tertiary peritonitis in patients with multiple rein- terventions severe acute pancreatitis high degree of severity apache 25 points septic shock prolonged paralytic ileus total parenteral nutrition prolonged antibiotic treatment pro- longed stay in intensive care unit presence of catheters andor drainage systems and administration of gastric therapy pro- ton pump inhibitors anti-h28.earliness duration and antibiotic treatmentantibiotic treatment is more effective when started early as well as when it is adapted to the sensitivity of the iai patho- gens.

there is sufficient evidence in the literature to support the use of empiric antifungal therapy in patients with secondary peritonitis of nosocomial origin and tertiary peritonitis since the prognosis of these patients wors- ens with the isolation of candida in peritoneal fluid17.the antifungal treatment of choice in critically ill patients with candida peritonitis should be established by the admin- istration of an echinocandin in the following cases presence of haemodynamic instability previous treatment with azoles existence of fluconazole-resistant candida isolate peritoneal fluid or need of renal replacement therapy.

the choice of antibiotic requires consideration of the source of the infection safety or toxicity of the antibiotic interaction with other drugs administration guidelines as well as the microbi- ological variability and patterns of intrinsic resistance of each hospital or critical care unit.

while we wait for new antibiotic combinations to become available in our centres optimisation of antibiotic treatment as well as a rational use of it is required.referencessolomkin js hemsell dl sweet r tally f bartlett j. evaluation of new anti-infective drugs for the treatment of intraabdominal in- fections.

in this regard rapid enteric colonisation by bacteria resistant to the antibiotic received has been observed in patients receiving third-genera- tion cephalosporins or piperacillin-tazobactam.the main species of enterococcus spp.

another risk factor for p. aeruginosa colonisationinfection in critical patients is previous antibiotic treatment.

cohort studies in patients with severe sepsis have shown that for every hour that the initiation of appropriate antibiotic treatment is delayed mortality increases by 7.69.the choice of an effective empiric treatment for iai re- mains a challenge.

tigecycline in high dos- es has been included in combined antibiotic regimens for the treatment of secondary peritonitis in critically ill patients with favourable clinical outcomes15.

combined antibiotic treatment guidelines that include tigecycline are an alternative to car- bapenems not only because of their activity but also to avoid the spread of carbapenemases that may compromise the fu- ture activity of carbapenems.empiric treatment against mrsa is recommended in hos- pitalised patients or those in long-term healthcare facilities colonised by mrsa or those at risk of infection due to priorantibiotic exposure.

2010482456-9.tellado jm sen ss caloto mt kumar rn nocea g. consequenc- es of inappropriate initial empiric parenteral antibiotic therapy among patients with community-acquired intra-abdominal infec- tions in spain.

procalcitonin-guided therapy may reduce length of antibiotic treatment in intensive care unit patients with secondary peritonitis a multicenter retrospective study.

this term is used to describe infections in those patients who regularly use the healthcare system because of underlying conditions patients who have had recent hospital admissions are living in care homes at- tending day hospitals those who have previously taken anti- biotics or are receiving haemodialysis.

this definition implies that patients will need initial treatment with broader-spec- trum antibiotics than patients with community-acquired in- fections due to the presence of microorganisms with a higher degree of resistance to antibiotics.the so-called core or essential microorganisms of iais are enterobacteriaceae escherichia coli and klebsiella pneumoni- ae and bacteroides spp.

erratum to epico 3.0. recommendations on invasive can- didiasis in patients with complicated intra-abdominal infection and surgical patients with icu extended stay rev iberoam micol.

