at 27 d after start of the 5-day antibiotic administration no significant differences were observed in diversity of cecal microbiota in antibiotic-exposed chickens compared to the unexposed chickens.in the jejunal microbiota no significant differences indiversity due to antibiotic administration were observed data not shown.effect of antibiotics on avian gut development3073figure 3. principal response curves prc indicating the effect of antibiotic administration during 5 d at 15 to 20 d post hatch on microbial composition in jejunal and cecal content in groups of 6 chickens.

rda was performed focusing on inter-sample correlation and the monte carlo permutation test was applied as imple- mented in canoco 4.5 to decide whether antibiotic administration had statistically significant influence on3072wisselink et al.figure 2. effect of an antibiotic administration during 5 d at 15 to 20 d post hatch on microbiota diversity in ceca from groups of 6 chickens at 6 16 and 27 d after start of the administration.

chickens not exposed to antibiotics were taken as control.in addition to the overall diversity of the micro- biota multivariate analysis revealed changes in micro- bial composition in jejunal and cecal content in both antibiotic-exposed groups especially during the admin- istration of antibiotics d 6 after start of administra- tion but also after the antibiotic administration was stopped d 16 after start of administration whereas no significant changes between control and either of the ex- posed groups could be observed at 27 d after the start of the exposure to antibiotics fig.

to get insight into the dynamics of the intestinal microbiota and gut morphol- ogy and immunology after antibiotic administration 6 chickens from each group were sacrificed at the fol- lowing time points immediately after completion of the antibiotic administration d 6 midway d 16 and at the end of the experiment d 27. the intestinal seg- ments were removed from the chickens.

american registry of pathology washington d.c.geurts l. v. lazarevic m. derrien a. everard m. van roye c. knauf p. valet m. girard g. g. muccioli p. francois w. m. de vos j. schrenzel n. m. delzenne and p. d. cani.

.effect of antibiotics on avian gut development3077some significant changes at 5 or 16 d after antibiotic administration were seen in the intestinal immunologi- cal development as a response probably associated with a change in microbiota because cytokine mrna ex- pression either in the duodenum or jejunum was up- or down-regulated.

effect of an antibiotic administration during 5 days at 15 to 20 d post hatch on cytokine expression in the jejunum from 6 chickens.chickens not exposed to antibiotics were taken as control.the antibiotics most probably due to the specific im- mune programming process during early life.

the fact that the effect on immune parameters was seen at 16 d after start of the 5-day antibiotic administration how- ever points towards an indirect effect that followed the initial change in microbiota composition.

before and at 6 16 and 27 d after start of the administration of antibiotics the composition of the microbiota in the jejunum was determined using a 16s ribosomal rna gene-targeted dna microarray the chickchip.

administration of antibiotics in chickens and in pigs during early life leads to an al- tered microbiota composition and diversity in the gut and affects the expression of numerous immune-related genes in the gut mucosal tissue for a longer period of time mulder et al.

this is under- lined by findings of others that changes in microbiota composition of egg-laying hens in response to antibiotic therapy and antibiotic withdrawal were quite rapid and could be observed within 24 h after the change in ther- apy status videnska et al.

administration of antibiotics was via drinking water for 5 d and the d administration was started was defined as d zero.

although the microbiota were different in both antibiotic groups both aberrant constellations affected the immune system.there is also a possibility that there is a direct effect of antibiotics on the intestinal tissue niewold .

asm press washington d.c. mulder i. e. b. schmidt m. lewis m. delday c. r. stokes m. bailey r. i. aminov b. p. gill j. r. pluske c. d. mayer and d. kelly.

331156-1164.schokker d. a. j. m. jansman g. veninga n. de bruin s. a. vastenhouw f. m. de bree a. bossers j. m. j. rebel and m.a.

