but few systematical studies focus on the relationship among bas 5-ht microbiota and gut motility.germ-free mice model has been used in several stud- ies which were interested in the relationship between gut microbiota and motility.

d.gut microbiota regulate contractility of proximal colonic muscleas antibiotics-treated mice had a decreased fecal out- put and delayed intestinal transit it raised the possibility that commensal microbiota might affect the spontaneous contraction of intestinal smooth muscle.

for example stool consistency was suggested to be negatively correlated with species rich- ness of gut microbiota in humans which indicated that the fecal parameter such as water content was affected not only by gut motility but also by gut microbiota rich- ness .

j transl med 2017 1513doi 10.1186s12967-016-1105-4journal of translational medicineantibiotics-induced depletion of mice microbiota induces changes in host serotonin biosynthesis and intestinal motilityxiaolong ge1 chao ding1 wei zhao2 lizhi xu3 hongliang tian1 jianfeng gong1 minsheng zhu2 jieshou li1 and ning li1backgroundthe human gastrointestinal tract is a diverse microbial community which is composed of hundreds of microbial species .

studies have focused on the role of gut micro- biota on host physiology which show the microbiota affect gut motility tissue regeneration in particular of the villi gut-associated lymphoid tissue galt matu- ration and intestinal barrier function .

alterations in the composition of gut microbiota may lead to dysfunc- tion of motility which might be one of the pathogenic factors in slow transit constipation stc  .the germ-free animals are used in many studies to show the influence of gut microflora on gut motor func- tion.

the antibiotics- treated method has been used to prove the reversibility of microbial effects on host 5-ht and gut motility .the present study was designed to evaluate whether depletion of gut microbiota by antibiotics could influencegut motility and whether this effect was mediated by reg- ulating host serotonin metabolism.methodsanimals and antibiotics treatment protocolall procedures were conducted according to model animal research center and were approved by the experimentation ethics review committee of nanjing university.

after 4 weeks with antibiotics treatments the average number of operational taxo- nomic unit otu of mice decreased significantly from 383.4 - 23.4 to 74.9 - 3.1 p  0.01. taxonomically after antibiotics treatments the abundance of intestinal microbiota decreased significantly in all levels as shown in fig.

at phylum level only proteobacteria accounted for more than 0.5 of all the microbiota in mice treatedwith antibiotics.

on the contrary in spf mice without antibiotics actinobacteria 0.6 bacteroidetes 27.4firmicutes 53.0 proteobacteria 12.3 teneri- cutes 0.8 and verrucomicrobia 5.4 accounted for more than 0.5. in addition the species richness chao decreased from 354.3 - 42.9 to 98.3 - 15.1 p  0.01 and a diversity shannon decreased from 4.0 - 0.4 to 0.5 - 0.1 p  0.01.depletion of gut microbiota affects fecal parameter and weight of cecumafter 4 weeks with antibiotics treatments mice had a significant tendency toward decreased in weight when compared to control every week fig.

.gut microbiota modulate metabolites and host colonic serotonin levelselisa was used to measure the colonic 5-ht levels.

the results showed that microbiota depletion by antibioticsfig.

2 effects of microbiota depletion by antibiotics on mice body weight a defecation frequency b fecal water content c and length of fecal pellets d. data are presented as mean - sem.

.discussionthe interactions between the composition of the micro- biota and gut motility are bidirectional which indicates that the microbiota play an important role in gut motor function and the gut motor function affects the diver- sity of microflora in the gastrointestinal tract .

here we found that the depletion of microbiota by antibiot- ics treatments was associated with gut motility and its relationship might be related to 5-ht biosynthesis in the colon.

