the fecal bacteria load in the abx group showed sig- nificant decrease compared with that of the control group b. meanwhile the serum lps showed statistical decrease after abx treatment c. abx treatment triggered disruption of the taxonomy structure of gut microbiota severely which was repre- sented by obvious changes in the fraction of the gut bacteria at phylum levels d. the rarefaction curve of abx treated sample was also distant below control sample e.gut microbial dysbiosis compromises host immune defense upon tumor challengeto testify the potential roles of abx on the tumor growth ani- mals were subjected to abx treatment 14 days before tumor challenge and animals receiving water without abx served as control.

3 in abx treatment compared with the control.orally supplemented lps rescues the immune surveillance on tumor in abx miceoral supplementation of lps in abx treated mice contributed to the decrease of tumor growth which was comparable with control group a. the serum lps reduction was recovered to the level of control in lps supplemented group b. similarly the infiltration of cd11c mhc11 and cd11b mhc11 in the tumor of abx treated mice with lps was rescued to the level of the control groups c and d. similarly the mrna levels of th1 cytokines in tumor were also rescued e. moreover the mrna expression of il1 il10 a f480 cd11b cd11c and mhcii in ileum tissues showed significant decrease in the abx group compared with the control group.

as in spleen proportion of cd11c mhcii and cd11b mhcii apcs also showed reduc- tion in the abx group compared to that of the control group d and e. in vitro elispot assay revealed the ifng secreting cells count per 106 splenocytes showed decrease in abx group compared to that of the control group f. t-cell proliferation was reduced in the abx group compared to the control group in thepresence of tumor cells however in the absence of tumor cells no statistical difference was identified in the t cell proliferation be- tween the abx group and control group g. real-time pcr showed the mrna level of th1 cytokines i.e.

after abx treatment the decreased apcs frequency and co-stimulatory function were observed in abx treated mice and it can be restored by oral administration of lps in gut microbiota disrupted mice.materials and methodscell linesb16f10 melanoma cell line was purchased from cell bank of type culture collection of the chinese academy of sciences shanghai institute of cell biology chinese academy of sciences shanghai china.

the proportion of apcs cd11c mhcii dendritic cell and cd11b mhcii macrophage showed significant decrease in tumor infiltrating leucocytes from the abx group compared to the control group respectively b and c. also the proportion of cd4th and cd8th t cells decreased in tumors of abx group supplementary fig.

a tumor growth curve of antibiotics treated with abx abx with lps and control.

meanwhile the rare- faction curve showed significant decrease in bacterial species in abx disrupted microbiota indicating that broad-spectrum abx treatment dramatically decreased gut bacterial loads and depleted more than half of its strains.

therefore decrease of serum lps after abx treatment was mostly contributed by the decrease in this two phylum.previous study indicated that antibiotic treatment shortened mean survival time of mice with more numerous and larger tumor metastatic foci in the lung  in line with that study our data showed an increase in tumor growth and a shortened palpable tumor latency when b16f10 melanoma cells were implanted sub- cutaneously after two-week abx treatment.

administration of a broad spectrum antibiotics combination antibiotics cocktail abx was applied to induce gut microbiota disruption in c57bl6 mice before b16f10 challenge.

tumor volume was evaluated by the multiplication of the lengths of the major and minor axes.for the antibiotics treatment c57bl6 mice were treated with a broad spectrum antibiotic combinations abx treatment 1 gl ampicillin 500 mgl vancomycin and 1 gl neomycin sulfate in drinking water antibiotic-containing water was changed twice a week.

for tumor challenge experiments abx was given either two weeks before tumor challenge or right after it.

animals treated only with drinking water were served as control.fecal sample collection and bacterial diversity analysisfecal sample was collected from each mice to determine the bacterial load in the abx group and normal control respec- tively.

cells were counted with a hemocytometer in 0.4 trypan blue solution.cells were stained with pe anti-mouse cd3 clone 17a2 biolegend san diego ca usa fitc anti mouse cd4 cone rm4-5 biolegend pe anti-mouse cd8a clone 53e6.7 biolegend pe anti-mouse cd11c clone n418 biolegend pe anti-mouse cd11b clone m1 70 biolegend fitc anti-mouse mhc ii clone 28-14-8 biolegend pecy5.5 anti-mouse cd80 clone 16-10a1 biolegend pecy5.5 anti-mouse cd86 clone gl-1 biolegend for 30 min and then applied to facs analysis.tumor mixed lymphocyte reactionto test the influence of abx on the cellular immune function in spleen cancer cells subjected to 30 gy irradiation were set as stimulator cells.

p  0.05 was considered to be statistically significant.resultsabx induces gut microbial dysbiosis in the micevolume enlargement was observed in the cecum of mice sub- jected to abx treatment compared to the control a which represented a feature of germ free mice after disruption of gut microbiota.

significant elevation was noticed in the tumor size and weight in abx group compared to the control group b 2c and 2e.

