this finding verified to a certain extent that ermf might act as a representative arg for the chinese population.distribution of arg resistance mechanism categories in different countriesamong the 507 arg subtypes detected in this study 486 subtypes were classified into five mechanism categories based on the card database including 312 subtypesbelonging to antibiotic inactivation 110 subtypes to antibi- otic efflux 36 subtypes to antibiotic target alteration 16 to antibiotic target replacement and 12 to antibiotic target pro- tection supporting information table s5.

antibiotic inactivation antibiotic target alteration and antibiotic efflux were the dominantreceived 5 june 2017 revised 22 november 2017 accepted 22 november 2017. for correspondence.

2016. the rapid development and dis- semination of args has resulted from antibiotic abuse and misuse to a large extent and the bacteria carrying out antibiotic resistance can persist in the human gut for years even after short-term antibiotic intake hu et al.

2013. antibiotic consumption is con- sidered to be the major reason underlying the emergence of antibiotic resistance and differences in the antibiotic resistomes of individuals in these three countries could be attributed to the differential selective pressures of antibiot- ics.

s5 antibiotic inacti- vation antibiotic target alteration and antibiotic efflux were the dominant resistance mechanism categories in all of the populations not only in terms of subtype numbers but also by arg abundances.

notably all six arg mechanism categories were present in the populations from the 11 different countries except for germany which did not contain the category of 'antibiotic target replacement'.iterestingly the abundance ratios of the antibiotic target alteration category was significantly higher in asian and european populations than that in north american and latin american populationsmann-whitney test p value 5 0.01. moreover the arg subtypes carrying out antibiotic target protection had the highest abundance ratios in canadian american german icelandic and japanese people whereas the abundance ratios of the antibiotic efflux category were highest in latin american swedish and austrian people.

2005 the antibiotic resistance genes database ardb liu and pop 2009 the comprehensive antibiotic resistance database card mcarthur et al.

while antibiotic resistance is an ancient phe- nomenon antibiotic consumption is the main reason for emerging resistance as well as for increases in the acquisi- tion development and spread of the resistome wright 2007 forslund et al.

in addition to the effect of differential antibiotic selective pressures the gut microbiota composi- tion could also structure the antibiotic resistome forsberg et al.

first depending on the host bacterium tetracycline resistance genes could have other functions signal tracking or hydrophobic protein trans- port that are not directly related to antibiotic resistance which could contribute to their dominant abundance in human guts martinez 2008 dantas and sommer 2012. on the other hand tetracycline resistance genes are also an intrinsic and ancient phenomenon for some microorganisms which was verified by the occurrence of diverse genes encoding tetracycline resistance in beringian permafrost formed 30 000 years ago far before modern clinical antibiotic use d'costa et al.

in addition the antibiotic target protection category mainly included tetracycline resistance type and the antibiotic efflux category dominantly consisted of multi- drug resistance type supporting information table s5.

4department of civil and environmental engineering northwestern university evanston il usa.summarythe human gut microbiota is an important reservoir of antibiotic resistance genes args.

a metagenomic approach and network analysis were used to establish a comprehensive antibiotic resistome catalog and to obtain co-occurrence patterns between args and microbial taxa in fecal samples from 180 healthy indi- viduals from 11 different countries.

procrustes analysis revealed that microbial phylogeny structured the antibiotic resistome.

however the human gut micro- biota is also considered to be a reservoir for antibiotic resistance genes args which have posed tremendous threats to public health during the last few decades laxmi- narayan et al.

