Inhibition in the degradation of pesticides in soils has been observed during the application of chloramphenicol   however this is not an antibiotic of agricultural use.According to our results despite the deceleration in the mineraliza-tion process the disposal of wastewater containing the antibiotics combined in the Agry-Gent Plus r formulation could proceed in this biomixture without jeopardizing the elimination of chlorpyrifos.Removal of fungicides in the biomixture during co-application of antibioticsThe effect of the antibiotics was evaluated on the simultaneous removal of four fungicides at a relevant dose of 10 mg kg-1 that could be found in a biomixture used for the disposal of antibiotic-rich wastewater.

As for carbendazim the antibiotics did not affect the net effect of the degrading microbial communities adapted after the first application of metalaxyl.In the cases of the triazoles tebuconazole and triadimenol noevidence of removal was achieved in the biomixture even in the absence of the antibiotics C D. These compounds exhibit long half-lives in soil ranging from 47 d in the field to 365 d under laboratory conditions for tebuconazole and 65 d to 137 d for triadimenol .

Antibiotics do not affect the degradation of fungicides and enhance the mineralization of chlorpyrifos in biomixturesHumberto Castillo-Gonzalez Marta Perez-Villanueva Mario Masis-Mora Victor Castro-Gutierrez Carlos E. Rodriguez-RodriguezCentro de Investigacion en Contaminacion Ambiental CICA Universidad de Costa Rica 2060 San Jose Costa RicaA R T I C L E I N F O Keywords Pesticides Antibiotics DegradationBiopurification systems BiomixtureA B S T R A C T The use of antibiotics in agriculture produces residues in wastewaters.

We assayed the effect of two commercial formulations of antibiotics used in agriculture one containing kasugamycin KSG and the other oxytetracycline plus gentamicin OTCGTM on the biomixture performance.

On the contrary OTCGTM depressed the respiration of the biomixture and the initial mineralization rate of 14C-chlorpyrifos nonetheless the antibiotics did not decrease overall mineralization values.

These findings reveal that wastewater containing these antibiotics do not affect the performance of BPS.

These components include a humic substance-rich material usually peat or compost to increase pesticide retention a lignocellulosic substrate to potentiate the activity of ligninolytic fungi   and soil ideally pre-exposed to the target pesticides which provides adapted microbial populations with degrading capacity .Besides pesticides pest control in agriculture employs antibiotics for the prevention of bacteria-related diseases in crops.

The correct disposal of such wastewater is essential to avoid the inadequate release of antibiotics in environmental compartments.

Given the mode of action of antibiotics the presence of these compounds in the environment may cause deleterious effects on non-target microorganisms related to the affecta- tion of bioprocesses such as nitrification iron reduction   biogas production  sulfate reduction degradation of organic matter in sewage sludge  and the Anammox process .

In addition concern has arisen on the role of environmental exposure in the development of antibiotic resistance by human and veterinary pathogens  .Only a few antibiotics are currently used in the agricultural industry.

