the cumulative body of scien- tific evidence that demonstrates the beneficial effects of probiotics on health andadvances in applied microbiology volume 98issn 0065-2164c 2017 elsevier inc.all rights reserved.1disease prevention has made probiotics increasingly important as a part of human nutrition and led to a surge in the demand for probiotics in clinical applications and as functional foods.the ability of probiotics to promote health is attributed to the various beneficial effects exerted by these microorganisms on the host.

although much has been documented about the ability of probiotics to promote host health there is limited discussion on the above mentioned effects of probiotics on pathogens.

although much is known about the ability of probiotics to promote host health there is limited literature available on the aforementioned effectof probiotics on pathogens.

the following section of chapter will therefore focus on the ability of probiotics to directly modulate the infectious nature of pathogens and the underlying molecular mechanisms .antibiosis effects of probioticsamong the different desirable characteristics the ability to produce antimi- crobial products provides the probiotics with a competitive advantage over other pathobionts.

the mechanisms of antibiosis of probiotics are listed in .lactic acid and acetic acids are major antibacterial organic acids produced by probiotics depending on the nutrient substrate and their metabolic pro- file.

interestingly in vitro studies have also shown the potential of yeast probiotics like saccha- romyces boulardii in inhibiting the attachment of e. histolytica trophozoites to erythrocytes .furthermore degradation of carbohydrate receptors by secreted pro- teins production of receptor analogs and the induction of biosurfactants are other mechanisms by which probiotics prevent pathogen adherence.

this ability of probiotics to exert coloniza- tion resistance and competitively exclude pathogens is being utilized in the development of designer probiotics for controlling infections.antiinvasion effectsinvasion of host epithelial cells is an important prerequisite for a pathogen to establish a successful infection.

antivirulence properties of probiotics in combating microbial pathogenesissurendran nair m.a.

ample evidence is documented to support the potential application of probiotics for the prevention and treatment of infections.

health benefits of probiotics include prevention of diarrhea including antibiotic- associated diarrhea and traveler's diarrhea atopic eczema dental carries colorectal cancers and treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.

however probiotics also exert a direct effect on invading microorganisms.the direct modes of action resulting in the elimination of pathogens include inhibition of pathogen replication by producing antimicrobial substances like bacterio- cins competition for limiting resources in the host antitoxin effect inhibition of virulence antiadhesive and antiinvasive effects and competitive exclusion by compe- tition for binding sites or stimulation of epithelial barrier function.

therefore this chapter will focus on the ability of probiotics to directly modulate the infectious nature of pathogens and the underlying mechanisms that mediate these effects.introductionaccording to the world health organization globally 18 million people die annually from infectious diseases .

probiotics are harmless live microorganisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer both well-being and health benefit on the host .

the supplemented beneficial flora can thus act as prebiotics and stimulate the growth of part of the gut microbiota.this chapter will provide a summary of various virulence mechanisms in pathogens and insight into the direct modes of action of probiotics in combating microbial infections.

additionally research demonstrating the mechanistic basis of probiotics' antivirulence property will be included.mechanisms of bacterial pathogenicityin differentiating between pathogenic and nonpathogenic microbes early investigators identified certain components that confer upon them the capacity for causing disease.

