identification of four infants with potential methicillin resistant s. aureus mrsa or s. epidermidis mrse carriage along with high abundances and prevalence of both s. aureus and s. epidermidis species across the dataset could indicate a significant reservoir for amr transfer between the species as well as highlight the seeding of the infant gut microbiome from an early stage.focus on s. aureus species detectednext we wanted to understand the relationship of the s. aureus species within the meca positive as well as negative samples as the premature infants overlapped in time and so could harbour closely related strains.

recent studies have shown that the initial seeding of the infant gut microbiome is influenced by the microorganisms in the immediate environment and whilst colonisation by bacteria with amr genes has been demonstrated  comparatively far fewer studies have investigated the gut microbiome of infants fewer still preterm healthy infants.

although we found no correlation between diversity and antibiotic exposure with infants treated with either no antibiotics including during pregnancy to up to 8 days of antibiotic administration effects such as relatively small sample size as well as day of life of sample and normal gut development are biases to this finding which is contrary to other studies within infants .

in total we identified a non-redundant set of 172 species across all samples see for complete dataset.prevalence of antimicrobial resistancebefore focusing on individual amr genes we measured the a-diversity shannon- weaver index within each sample and although a small sample set compared this to3200400depth of coverage bp1437aglyblafos flqmlsphetettmtsampleq87 q26 q175 q89 q83 q219 q216 q142 q189 q117 q19the known antibiotic exposure of the preterm infants .

the cycling conditions were as follows 95 c for 3 min followed by 30 cycles of 98 c for 20 s 53 c for 30 s and 72 c for 30 s followed by a final extension of 72 c for 4 min.

computational s. aureus sequence typing st was also performed using srst2  under default scoring parameters and using the s. aureus mlst schema downloaded on 18-04-16 from pubmlst.org.

paired end pe sequencing was performed on the nextseq using a v2 300 cycle high output reagent kit illumina and on the miseq using the v3 600 cycle reagent kit illumina.prior to sequencing the complete dataset three libraries from three infant faecal samples were sequenced as part of separate multiplexed miseq runs generating a mean 8.3 million pe reads and 5.0 gbp sequence yield per sample.

after library amplification the negative extraction control and one preterm infant faecal sample required 8 pcr cycles owing to very low starting pre-pcr biomass dna concentration 0.1 ngul therefore these samples were excluded from downstream analysis leaving faecal samples from eleven premature infants.shotgun metagenomic sequencinglibrary insert size and quantity was assessed for each sample by bioanalyser and qpcr as described previously .

premature infants were recruited to the study at the imperial college healthcare national health service trust neonatal intensive care unit nicu at queen charlotte's and chelsea hospital between january 2010 and december 2011.sample collectionalmost every faecal sample produced by each participant between recruitment and discharge was collected by nursing staff from diapers using a sterile spatula.

secondly the methods used here were inherently restricted to identification of known amr genes found within the argannot database used in this study which contains those genes involved in acquired resistance only therefore chromosomal mutations such as those conferring resistance to rifampicin as well as novel resistance genes would have been missed leading to potential underrepresentation of resistance in this study.conclusionsthe healthy preterm infants sampled within this study harboured multiple amr genes representing a potential reservoir for later disease onset.

correlations and t -tests were performed within r v 3.2.5  .notes.three miseq replicate samples paired reads were merged during qc therefore read number represent single reads.signifies replicate samples.resultsthe healthy preterm metagenomeusing shotgun metagenomic sequencing we have captured an early snapshot of the antimicrobial resistance landscape within the gut microbiota of eleven premature infants who did not have proven sepsis or necrotizing enterocolitis.

in total over 1600 alleles were searched for and notable amr genes not detected included those involved in carbapenem andantibiotic typenumber of identified genes within classvancomycin resistance the latter of which was administered to three preterm infants prior to sample collection .

here we report on the gut composition and amr diversityfor eleven healthy but premature infants.

dna from one faecal sample did not complete library preparation see below clinical characteristics of the remaining eleven infants and faecal sample metadata are presented in .dna extraction and shotgun library preparationdna extractions were performed as described previously  but with the following modifications dna extracts were prepared from approximately 200 mg of faeces which were re-suspended in 10x volumeweight filtered 1x phosphate-buffered saline pbs with addition of 11 volumevolume 2 2-mercaptoethanol diluted in 1x filtered pbs.

relative abundance tables were combined using the packaged metaphlan script-- mergemetaphlantables.py.identifying antimicrobial resistance genespresenceabsence testing of amr genes within the samples was performed on unassembled reads.

