We prepared pectin-derived oligosaccharides apple APDO and citrus and polygalacturonic acid-derived oligosaccharides using alkaline hydrolysis by hydrogen peroxide and analyzed them by Fourier Transform Infrared spectrometry.

A comparative analysis showed that APDO has the most prominent bacteriostatic effect.

This might be at least partially related to the higher capacity of APDO to produce CO2- which specifically targets proteins and appears to have a longer lifetime and larger diffusion radius in biological systems compared to HO.IntroductionIntestinal tract appears to be the main site of beneficial actions of dietary pectin and pectin derivatives.

Pectin apple and citrus and polygalacturonic acid-derived oligosaccharides APDO CPDO and PGDO respectively were examined for their redox activity in hydroxil radical OH-generating system and for the effects on proliferation ofE.

Samples were prepared by adding FeSO4 0.2 mM to solutions containing spin-trap DEPMPO 5-diethoxyphosphoryl-5-methyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide Enzo Life Sciences International Plymouth Meeting PA USA 5 mM and H2O2 1 mM with or without APDO CPDO or PGDO 15 mgmL.

All experiments were performed in phosphate buffer saline pH 7.4 that was prepared using ultrapure MilliQ 18 MO water.Effects on E. coli and S. aureusBacterial strains E. coli ATCC 25922 and S. aureus ATCC 25923 were obtained from American Type Culture Collection and grown in a stan- dardized medium without control or with APDO CPDO or PGDO 100 mgmL.

standard error and were taken to be statistically dif- ferent if p  0.05.Results and discussionFTIR spectra of apple pectin and APDO exhibited intense broad band of stretching vibrations of hydrogen bonded hydroxyl groups 3600-3200 cm-1 .

Gray Simulation of signal of DEPMPOOH adduct B Fenton system  APDO 15 mgmL Gray Simulation of signal of DEPMPOCO2 adduct C Fenton system CPDO D Fenton system  PGDO.band at 1229 cm-1 that corresponds to in-plane bending vibrations of OH groups from COOH.

In the presence of APDO CPDO and PGDO the formation of DEPMPOOH adduct in Fenton reaction was completely inhibited whereas the adduct with CO2- .

In other words APDO CPDO and PGDO produced CO2- when exposed to HO.

