doi 10.1007s12010-017-2618-xapplicability of microaerobic technology to enhance btex removal from contaminated waterspaulo igor m. firmino 1  raquel s. farias1  amanda n. barros1  patricia g. c. landim 1  gervina b. m. holanda1  elisa rodriguez 12  alexandre c. lopes1  andre b. dos santos 1received 12 july 2017  accepted 26 september 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstract as the addition of low concentrations of oxygen can favor the initial degrada- tion of benzene toluene ethylbenzene and xylenes btex compounds this work verified the applicability of the microaerobic technology to enhance btex removal in an anaerobic bioreactor supplemented with high and low co-substrate ethanol concen- trations.

thus it is necessary to assess microaerobic processes in btex degradation principally with anaerobic inocula operated under microaerobic conditions.hence the main objective of this work was to verify the applicability of the microaerobic technology to enhance btex removal in an anaerobic bioreactor supplemented with high and low co-substrate ethanol concentrations.

high concentrations of ethanol adversely affected btex removal especially benzene under anaerobic and microaerobic conditions.although bacterial community richness decreased at low concentrations of ethanol in general the bioreactor microbiota could deal with the different operational conditions and preserved its functionality during the whole experiment.acknowledgements the authors would like to thank conselho nacional de desenvolvimento cientifico e tecnologico - cnpq process 4812702010-8 coordenacao de aperfeicoamento de pessoal de nivel superior- capes process pnpd 30222010 and fundacao cearense de apoio ao desenvolvimento cientifico e tecnologico - funcap process 078.01.0009 for the research grants and financial support.compliance with ethical standardsdisclosures the authors indicate no potential conflicts of interest.referenceskhodaei k. nassery h. r. asadi m. m. mohammadzadeh h.  mahmoodlu m. g. 2017.international biodeterioration and biodegradation 116 234-242.corseuil h. x. gomez d. e. schambeck c. m. ramos d. t.  alvarez p. j. j.

additionally most likely the structural configuration of granular sludge in which strictly anaerobic archaea in the granule core are protected from oxygen by probable facultative or microaerophillic fermentative bacteria in outer layers seems to be a key feature to guarantee the applicability of microaeration to anaerobic bioreactor and enhance btex degradation.in period iv still under microaerobic conditions when high ethanol concentrations were applied cod removal efficiency increased significantly table .

despite experimental measurements of biogas production at low ethanol concentrations were not possible due to technical limitations calculated theoret- ical biogas generation and the lack of damage of archaeal populations due to the operational conditions suggest that the methanogenesis process continued to occur even at a low ethanol concentrations.

2002. research in microbiology 153 621-628.gieg l. m. fowler s. j.  berdugo-clavijo c. 2014. current opinion in biotechnology 27 21-29.mchugh s. o'reilly c. mahony t. colleran e.  o'flaherty v. 2003. reviews in environmental science and biotechnology 2 225-245.bell t. newman j. a. silverman b. w. turner s. l.  lilley a. k. 2005. nature 436 1157-1160.haig s. j. quince c. davies r. l. dorea c. c.  collins g. 2015. mbio 6 e00729-e00715.wittebolle l. marzorati m. clement l. balloi a. daffonchio d. heylen k. de vos p. verstraete w.  boon n. 2009. nature 458 623-626.baloch m. i. akunna j. c. kierans m.  collier p. j.

in benzene degradation batch experiments with aerobic cultures adapted to low oxygen concentrations observed that under microaerobic conditions the further oxidation of phenol--a less recalcitrant compound produced from the initial benzene hydroxylation by mono-oxygenases--to catechol by aerobic pathways only happens when adequate amounts of oxygen are available.

in fact phenol is considered one of the possible key intermediates of the initial anaerobic benzene degradation .therefore in the present study it is likely that the addition of low oxygen concentrations has facilitated the initial activation of btex compounds which is usually considered the rate- limiting step of the anaerobic degradation process especially for benzene  .

nevertheless a remarkable reduction in thechromatographic signal peak areas of all compounds particularly for benzene was observed under microaerobic conditions when compared to anaerobic ones which contrasts the hypothesis of stripping by microaeration and indicates that most likely aromatic hydrocarbons were removed by a biological process rather than a purely physical process.finally even for the high efficiencies achieved under microaerobic conditions it is important to mention that a post-treatment is required to remove residual concentrations of cod and some btex compounds such as benzene in order to meet the quality standards established by environmental legislations.

however high concentrations of ethanol adversely affected btex removal especially benzene under anaerobic and microaerobic conditions.

therefore these results reinforce the hypothesis that the presence of high concentrations of an easily degradable substrate such as ethanol affects negatively the aromatic hydrocarbons removal even under microaerobic conditions.regarding the microaeration impact at high co-substrate concentrations periods i and iv once more no significant difference was found in toluene removal efficiency since as mentioned above it is considered a relatively less recalcitrant hydrocarbon under different redox conditions.

hence although it was not possible to achieve the same btex removal performance of period iii in general the addition of small amounts of oxygen from atmospheric air facilitated the aromatic compounds removal.it is important to mention that the oxygen transfer by injection of small bubbles of atmospheric air to the liquid is not efficient because probably the residence time of the bubbles in the system would not exceed 2 s. therefore the oxygen dissolution in the liquid in microaerobic bioreactors might mainly happen through the air present in the bioreactor headspace gas-liquid interface thus the biogas residence time in this section is very important .

in this work evenness and consequently the presence of func- tionally redundant species on the community species which can perform the same function instead of richness or diversity seemed to be a key ecological parameter to maintain func- tionally as previously observed by other authors -.in period iii when microaerobic conditions at low ethanol concentrations were imposed rr and h recovered values similar than those observed in period i from 4 to 81 and from 1.9 to 3.3 respectively and foevenness remained at medium values from 40 to 33 table .

the bioreactor was fed with a synthetic btex-contaminated water  3 mg l-1 of each compound and operated at a hydraulic retention time of 48 h. the addition of low concentrations of oxygen 1.0 ml min-1 of atmospheric air at 27 degc and 1 atm assured high removal efficiencies  80 for all compounds under microaerobic conditions.

however either batch or continuous-flow microaerobic btex degradation experiments found in literature have used only aerobic cultures adapted to low oxygen concentrations -.

