thus it remains unresolved whether muc7 genetic variation is in- deed associated with protection against asthma.here to better address the question of disease associationof muc7 pts-repeats we resolved the haplotype architecture of the locus and investigated genetic variation of muc7 in humans from a more fundamental evolutionary perspective.

we now focus our investigation on how muc7 variation has evolved within the human lineage and how it may affect disease susceptibility.resultscopy number variation of muc7 pts repeats evolved recurrently in humansdiscovering and genotyping the copy number of short repeat segments using short read sequences is challenging due to alignment and assembly errors  .

this suggests that muc7 pts-repeat copy number variation evolved independently in at least two different branches of the human phylogenetic tree indicating recurrent evolution of these variants.to test whether recurrence indeed shaped muc7's genetic variation we directly sequenced five-copy haplotypes from haplogroups g and e as well as six-copy haplotypes.

first we considered a scenario with no introgression and where all the variation in observed sum- mary statistics can be explained by drift and variation of mutation and recombination rates in the genome.

we conclude based on these results that balancing selection in the form of heterozygote advantage with different s and h values cannot explain the observed variation as well as the introgression model.last to test which of the above-described scenarios explain muc7 genetic variation in a collective and comprehensive manner we conducted a principal component analysis of all summary statistics for all simulation results.

as such further studies are needed to clarify the impact of muc7's genetic variation on human coloniza- tion by specific commensal and pathogenic bacteria and its broader biomedical relevance.our results suggested that the copy number variation of highly o-glycosylated muc7 pts-repeats has recurrently evolved in the human lineage.

testing whether such complex adap- tive forces helped maintain muc7 genetic variation in humans is complicated due to the recurrent nature of genetic variation in this locus as well as the presence of introgressed haplotypes.

thus our results contrib- ute to the emerging notion that functional variation intro- gressed from an african hominin population into modern humans and has been maintained among contemporary african populations.collectively our study exemplifies how combined locus- specific and genome-wide approaches can shed light onto the evolutionary history and functional implications of complex recurrent structural variation.

we recently documented the adaptive evolution of muc7 subexonic copy number variation among primates.

yet the evolution of muc7 genetic variation in humans remained unexplored.

here we found that pts-repeat copy number variation has evolved recurrently in the human lineage thereby generating multiple haplotypic backgrounds carrying five or six pts- repeat copy number alleles.

instead we revealed a significant association of muc7 haplotypic variation with the composition of the oral microbiome.

furthermore based on in-depth simulations we conclude that a divergent muc7 haplotype likely originated in an unknown african hominin population and introgressed into ancestors of modern africans.key words cnv structural variation human evolution recurrent mutation abc simulation saliva mucin microbiome.introductionmuc7 encodes one of the most abundant proteins in human saliva .

traditional gwas assess copy number variation associations only through interrogating tag single nucleotide variants that are in high linkage disequilibrium with haplotypes carry- ing particular copy number variations.

as such it is plausible that the genotyping platforms used in those gwas studies were unable to accurately tag the copy number variation in muc7 alleles  .

