Current evidence is conflicting as to whether temporary stenting after balloon dilatation offers any extra benefit and a randomised multicentre European trial is in progress to address this issue .Antibiotics such as quinolones should be administered in the setting of acute cholangitis related to a DS and prophylactic antibiotics such as low-dose ciprofloxacin are sometimes re- quired in the clinical setting of recurrent cholangitis.

This article is an open access publicationAbstractPurpose of Review Cholangiocarcinoma is a devastating un- predictable complication of large duct primary sclerosing cholangitis PSC which occurs in 5-15 of patients.

Regular surveillance should be targeted at this selected high-risk group of PSC patients.Keywords Primary sclerosing cholangitis .

CholangioscopyIntroductionPrimary sclerosing cholangitis PSC is a rare progressive cholestatic liver disease characterised by inflammation stricturing and obliterative fibrosis of the biliary system ulti- mately leading to biliary cirrhosis portal hypertension and eventually hepatic failure in the majority of patients .

Thus there is clearly an unmet need to identify subgroups of PSC patients at particular high risk of developing cholangio- carcinoma where heightened surveillance may be helpful inidentifying cholangiocarcinoma at an early treatable stage.Dominant Strictures in PSCPatients with large duct PSC may develop progressive jaundice worsening of their liver biochemistry or symptoms of cholangitis prompting investigation for a dominant stricture DS.

The variant CD14-260CT polymorphism was associated with the development of DS and an increased risk of cholangitis.

Presence of this genotype in PSC has been strongly associated with episodes of cholangitis fungobilia and the incidence of dominant stenosis .The Effect of Dominant Stricture on Prognosis and the Risk of CholangiocarcinomaThe presence of a DS has been associated with a worsened long-term prognosis.

The explanation for the high rate of malignancy is probably related in part to chronic inflammation secondary to biliary obstruction as cholangiocarcinoma also develops in patients with secondary sclerosing cholangitis.

In addition one must bear in mind the risks posed in employing ERCP in the patient with PSC not least including the risk of intro- ducing bacteria and the possibility of invoking recurrent cholangitis .Fluorescence in situ hybridisation FISH analysis has been advocated as increasing the sensitivity and specific- ity of cytological analysis.

Primary sclerosing cholangitis.

