the ph change over time of each of the differentially treated bio- films is shown in figure 2.the ph of untreated biofilms nega- tive control remained stable at the start- ing ph of 7 throughout the experiment when maintained in cdm.

biofilms that were exposed to sucrose at time 0 expe- rienced a rapid and sustained drop to ph 4.5 while treatment with arginine alone increased the starting ph to a final ph of8.

we next explored the effect of arginine on ph dynamics by pretreating biofilms with 75 mm arginine followed by the addition of sucrose 15 mm after 0 6 20 or 48 h. ph was measured at each time point and biofilms were collected for 16s sequencing and targeted arginine quantification and supernatants were prepared for metabolomic analysis.

treatment with only sucrose led to a sustained ph drop from 7 to 4.5 while biofilms treated with sucrose after 6 20 or 48 h of preincubation with arginine exhibited a recovery to higher ph.

the dynamics of dental plaque ph were first described over 80 y ago stephan 1940 when stephan observed that dental plaque universally undergoes a rapid drop in ph when exposed to a sugar source followed by an eventual recovery to neutral.

ph was measured by pipet- ting 20 ml of each sample onto ph indicator strips.

ph was measured by pipetting 20 ml ontocolor-changing ph strips.

arg  l-arginine 75 mm suc  sucrose 15 mm.pretreatment with arginine prevents ph drop induced by sucroseusing the biofilm model as described above we tested whether treatment with 75 mm arginine could inhibit a ph drop induced by sucrose.

the addition of sucrose after 6 h of preincubation with arginine resulted in an initial ph drop followed by an increase to a final ph of 8. the addition of sucrose after 20h arginine pretreatment did not result in a sustained drop in ph.arginine is actively metabolized during treatmentwe investigated the extent to which thebiofilm and the retention over time while the biofilms were incubated in cdm.

there is evidence that arginine uptake and metabolic pathways are reg- ulated by ph burne and marquis 2000. the arginine-only biofilms rose to a sustained ph of 8 fig.

in general biofilms in which protection from the sucrose-induced ph drop occurred clustered sepa- rately from the biofilms in which ph protection did not occur.

dispar and streptococcus anginosus were dramatically increased in the protected biofilms 18 vs. 0.2 and 4.5 vs. 0.08 respectively.discussionan effective caries prevention needs to be able to protect against the ph drop induced by the influx of carbohydrates that occurs during meals by allowing for a quick recovery to shorten the amount of time enamel is exposed to demineralizing condi- tions nascimento and burne 2014. clinical studies with argi- nine-containing dentifrices have shown caries protection as well as an increase in plaque ph acevedo et al.

biofilms in which protection from the sucrose-induced ph drop occurred clustered separately from the biofilms in which ph protection did not occur this correlates with the amount of time the biofilms were incubated in arginine prior to sucrose exposure.

the plaque com- munity adapts to changing ph acidic conditions shift the com- munity in the favor of acid producers and acid-tolerant species while a higher ph favors a community with less cariogenic potential.

the changing ph gradually modifies the community and eventually the acidogenic organisms may no longer be present in large enough numbers to maintain the low ph when sucrose is added.

