g. wolf1  g. parthasarathy2  j. chen3  h. m. o'connor4  n. chia35  a. e. bharucha2  h. r. gaskins161division of nutritional sciences university of illinois at urbana-champaign urbana il usa2division of gastroenterology and hepatology department of medicine mayo clinic rochester mn usa3division of biomedical statistics and informatics department of health sciences research mayo clinic rochester mn usa4clinical research and trials unit center for clinical and translational science rochester mn usa5microbiome program center for individualized medicine rochester mn usa6carl r. woese institute for genomic biology university of illinois at urbana- champaign urbana il usacorrespondenceadil e. bharucha division of gastroenterology and hepatology mayo clinic rochester mn usa.email funding informationno funding declared.abstractbackground differences in the gut microbiota and breath methane production have been observed in chronic constipation but the relationship between colonic microbi- ota transit and breath tests remains unclear.methods in 25 healthy and 25 constipated females we evaluated the sigmoid colonic mucosal and fecal microbiota using 16s rrna gene sequencing abundance of hydrog- enogenic fefe fefe-hyda and hydrogenotrophic methyl coenzyme m reductase a mrca and dissimilatory sulfite reductase a dsra genes with real-t ime qpcr assays breath hydrogen and methane levels after oral lactulose and colonic transit with scintigraphy.key results breath hydrogen and methane were not correlated with constipation slow colon transit or with abundance of corresponding genes.

201729e13056.httpsdoi.org10.1111nmo.13056c 2017 john wiley  sons ltd  1 of 91  introduction considerable evidence exists which highlights associations be- tween the colonic microbiota and chronic constipation.1 colonic mucosal and fecal microbiota differ between constipated patients and healthy people.2-4 breath methane which is derived from intestinal methanogenesis is increased in constipated patients5 associated with slow colon transit and with altered colonic microbiota.24an earlier study suggested that breath hydrogen and methane excretion after lactulose ingestion were proportional to the pro- duction of these gases measured with whole-body calorimetry.7 however more recently breath methane excretion was not an accurate marker of colonic methane production in healthy peo- ple and irritable bowel syndrome ibs patients nor was it asso- ciated with the clinical features or colonic transit in ibs.8 indeed several aspects of microbial carbohydrate fermentation limit the utility of using breath gases to assess the abundance or activity of hydrogen-producing hydrogenogenic microbes or intestinal gas production.9 firstly preformed gas in hard stools may be re- leased in response to treatment with a laxative8 thereby affecting the accuracy of breath tests.

breath gases do not directly reflect the abundance of target genes contributing to their production.keywords breath hydrogen breath methane constipation genes hydrogen lactulose methane microbiome microbiota transitabbreviations 99mtc technetium-99m bmi body mass index fc functional constipation gc geometric center ge gastric emptying ibs irritable bowel syndrome.neurogastroenterology  motility.

the abundance of the methanogenic gene mcra and the hydrogenogenic gene fefe-hyda were respectively not correlated with breath methane and hydrogen production perhaps because breath methane and likely also hydrogen are not accurate markers of colonic methane and hydrogen produc- tion.8 furthermore the abundance of the methanogenic gene mcra or the hydrogenogenic gene fefe-hyda may not reflect their activity.36the colonic mucosal abundance of hydrogenogenic and hydrog- enotrophic genes was associated with the overall composition of the colonic mucosal microbiome evaluated with unweighted and weighted analyses.

associations between hydrogenogenic genes and breath hydrogen production and separately hydrogenotrophic genes and breath meth- ane production were assessed after adjusting for methane production and hydrogen production respectively.

breath hydrogen and methane concentrations were measured with model sc quintron gas chromatograph quintron instrument company milwaukee wi usa and summarized as area under the curve auc.a positive breath test was defined by an increase in breath hydrogenand methane exceeding 20 ppm over baseline.15  gi and colonic transit by scintigraphycolonic transit was measured by asking participants to ingest a methacrylate-coated delayed-release capsule containing indium-111 111in adsorbed on activated charcoal particles.4 the delayed-release coating dissolves in the alkaline ph of the terminal ileum releasing 111in in the cecum.

relationship between breath tests and other parametersbreath methane excretion was numerically greater in constipated subjects than in controls at all timepoints figure 1. however breath hydrogen and methane excretion auc were not different p.20 be- tween patients and controls.

taken together these observations suggest that breath methane and hydrogen excretion is not a useful measure of the abun- dance of hydrogenogenic and hydrogenotrophic genes in humans.the abundance of hydrogenotrophic and hydrogenogenic genes was significantly correlated in both colonic mucosa and feces.

breath methane production was not associ- ated with constipation or colonic transit.conclusions  inferences corroborating our earlier findings with 16s rrna genes colonic mucosal but not fecal hydrogenogenic and hydrogenotrophic genes were more abundant in constipated vs. healthy subjects independent of colonic transit.

all statisti- cal analyses were performed in r-3.0.2 r development core teams vienna austria.3  results  participant characteristicsthe results of symptoms diet colonic transit breath hydrogen and methane excretion and phylogenetic assessment of the colonic and mucosal microbiome with 16s rrna gene techniques in these par- ticipants have been published.4 this paper focuses on the results of functional genes and their relationship with other characteristics in this cohort.of the 25 patients 13 had symptoms of fc six had ibs-c and six had mixed ibs with predominant constipation.

no other associations between these genes and diet colonic transit and breath methane or hydrogen excretion were significant.

associations between the abundance of fecal fefe-hyda and breath hydrogen production remained nonsignificant even after adjusting for methane production and separately for abun- dance of individual hydrogenotrophic genes.

conversely associations between the abundance of individual hydrogenotrophic genes and breath methane production remained nonsignificant even after ad- justing for hydrogen production and separately abundance of fecal fefe-hyda.

no other associations between the fecal abundance of these genes and diet colonic transit and breath methane or hydrogen excretion were statistically significant.

one explanation is that only a subset of healthy individuals approximately 30 in our population produce methane at quantities detectable in breath32 which is lower than the corresponding proportion 53 in a study from spain.33 the abundance of individual hydrogenogenic genes was not significantly associated with breath hydrogen production even after adjusting for its utilization i.e.

