samples designations are lean or obese strain le or ob respectively-day of the study 0 or 60-individual rat number 1-16. panel b displays the averaged bacterial phyla within each of the sample groups lean day 0 obese day 0 lean day 60 and obese day 60.the species level additional analysis of these akkermansia sequences identified them as from the species akkermansia mucinophila.fewer bacterial groups were identified as elevated in the lean zucker rats.

the lean and obese zucker rats used in the study were generated by breeding a heterozygous female and heterozygous male so the lean and obese rats come from the same colony however the lean and obese rats were not siblings.

obese mice showed higher levels of firmicutes and correspondingly lower levels of bacteroidetes than their lean counterparts whether the obesity was genetically predisposed  or diet-lefse analysis identifying statistically significant differences in intestinal microbiota constituents of lean and obese zucker rats on day 60. the histogram shows the linear discriminant analysis lda scores for bacterial classifications that are significantly elevated in either the lean red or obese green groups.

research articleassessment of gut microbiota populations in lean and obese zucker ratsreza hakkak123 soheila korourian4 steven l. foley5 bruce d. erickson51 department of dietetics and nutrition university of arkansas for medical sciences little rock arkansas united states of america 2 department of pediatrics university of arkansas for medical sciences little rock arkansas united states of america 3 arkansas children's research institute little rock arkansas united states of america 4 department of pathology university of arkansas for medical sciences little rock arkansas united states of america 5 national center for toxicological research us food and drug administration jefferson arkansas united states of america abstractopen accesscitation hakkak r korourian s foley sl erickson bd 2017 assessment of gut microbiota populations in lean and obese zucker rats.

at the outset of the study the lean rats exhibited much lower ratios of the firmicutes to bacteroidetes phyla than the obese rats but after 60 days this ratio in the lean rats exceeded that of the obese.

illumina sequencing was performed on the v3-v4 region from individual rats at day 0 and day 60. the rats were designated as members of the lean day 0 le-0 lean day 60 le-60 obese day 0 ob-0 or obese day 60 ob-60 groups.for the individual fecal samples the numbers of quality-filtered sequencing reads averaged 291531 per sample and ranged from 124247 to 441653 .

the average ratio of firmicutes bacteroidetes was much lower 1.48 in the feces from lean rats day 0 compared to day 60 6.51 while these ratios were much closer in the obese rats 4.65 on day 0 and 4.93 on day 60. the obese rats at day 0 had a much higher ratio of bacteroidetes and firmicutes to actinobac- teria 31.64 and 147.23 compared to the rats at day 60 8.51 and 41.96 respectively.while comprising a small percentage of the total bacterial sequences present in the fecal samples the proteobacteria tenericutes and verrucomicrobia phyla were present in greater sequence counts and alpha diversity metrics for individual rat fecal samples.sample id is formatted as lean or obese-day of sample collection-individual rat number.

in the obese samples the predominant bacteroidales families bacteroidaceae and s24-7 showed little change between day 0 and day 60 5 and 11 reductions respectively while the lean samples showed reductions in the bacteroidaceae s24- 7 and paraprevotellaceae families of 42 71 and 95 respectively by day 60 .there are several bacterial groups that stand out as present in significantly different propor- tions in the lean and obese zucker rats at 60 days-as identified by linear discriminant analysis .

as a group the greatest calculated diversity was found in the day 0 lean rats with an average shannon index of 7.12 - 0.52 while the lowest diversity was observed in the day 60 lean rats shannon index 6.33- 0.35. statistical analysis indicated that there were no signifi- cant differences in the alpha diversity of the bacterial populations in the different test groups .

for the zucker rats in this study on day 0 the lean rats had much higher levels of bacteroidetes and lower firmicutesbacteroidetes ratios than the obese rats but by day 60 the ratios were similar for both lean and obese animals.these results contrast with a simplistic association of high firmicutesbacteroidetes ratios with obesity that has been often reported.

exam- ined the microbial communities of 6 sets of fafa obese fa lean and  lean male zucker rats that were housed together one of each strain in each set for 10 weeks in cages rather than the single cages as we used in this study.

similar to the present study there was an increase in rumincoccaceae among both lean and obese rats an increase in bifidobacteriaceae seen in obese rats in the current study and a reduction of bacteroidaceae seen in the lean rats in the current study as the rats aged.

obesity has been linked to changes in the intestinal microbiota but the composi- tion of the bacterial populations in lean and obese zucker rats has not been carefully stud- ied.

lean and obese female zucker rats n  16 were fed an ain-93g- like diet for 8 weeks.

this shift was associated with reductions in the bacteroidaceae s24-7 and paraprevotellaceae families in the lean rats.

