a subset of specimens were centrally extracted and replicated or triplicated into 96-sample aliquot sets that were shipped to handling laboratories each 96-sample aliquot set contained 53 raw samples and 43 centrally extracted samplessupplementary table 2. fifteen laboratories carried out extraction andor 16s amplicon sequencing and the raw sequence data were re- blinded and distributed for processing to nine bioinformatics labora- tories supplementary table 3. all data were deposited at the hmp data analysis and coordination center dacc were pooled for integrated analysis.data generation protocols were not prescribed instead handling and bioinformatics laboratories recorded their protocols using standardized forms and supplementary data sets 2 and 4. handling laboratories each received one or more blinded copies of the 96-aliquot set and processed them within a small number of fixed constraints.

all aliquots in the set were assigned blinded identifiers before distribution such that handling laboratories received no information linking aliquots either to replicates or to specimens of origin.sample handling and bioinformatics protocolsfrom these aliquots handling laboratories generated a total of 215 m sequence reads spanning 2250 samples aliquot-laboratory combina- tions supplementary data set 5. handling protocols included nine different extraction kits predominantly mo-bio carlsbad ca and most incorporated a bead-beating homogenization step and supplementary data sets 2 and 3 and for detailed protocols.

omnibus tests for differences among specimen type handling laboratory and bioinformatics laboratory are all significant at kruskal-wallis p  0.05 pairwise wilcoxon tests for the effects of most individual handling laboratories are significant while those of most bioinformatics laboratories are not supplementary table 6.showing little effect and others differing substantially primarily based on this single handling protocol variable supplementary note 5 and supplementary fig.

finally one laboratory deposited data after data sets were redistributed yield- ing a total of 14 handling laboratories' data which were distributed for bioinformatic analyses all raw data are available at the dacc.each sample-handling laboratory deposited demultiplexed fastq files containing the resulting data at the dacc which were then re- blinded for distribution to bioinformatics participants.

otu qc most often included feature or row qc that is removal of otus below an abundance or prevalence threshold some laboratories also performed sample or column qc to omit samples with too few reads supplementary note 2.taxonomic profilesthe combination of read-level qc and otu assignment yielded an average of 40 m reads per sample handling laboratory and 35000 - 43700 readssample for a total of 15749 filtered samples each sam- ple being a unique combination of aliquot handling laboratory and bioinformatics laboratory supplementary table 4. these comprised 11991 human-derived samples 2033 control artificial communities and 1725 chemostat-derived samples used for subsequent analysis all combined otu analyses excluded two laboratories that provided only open-reference otu calls without mergeable greengenes identifiers bl-5 and bl-7.

samples from identical specimens within each laboratory without varying any parameters to identify which laboratories were most internally consistent  2 beta-diversity comparisons of replicate samples between laboratories varying only the bioinformatics  or handling laboratory to identify which laboratories agreed with each specimen type's consensus readout  3 alpha-diversity of all stratified samples within laboratory to identify which performed more complete extractions inducing higher diversity or inflated positive-control diversity inducing lower diversity and 4 beta-diversity across all samples varying only one parameter at a time bioinformatics laboratory extracter sequencer or specimen .

ab distributions of within- and between-sample alpha and beta diversities respectively stratified by sample type n  2033 for artificial communities n  11991 for human- derived samples and n  1725 for chemostat samples and by handling a or bioinformatics laboratory b. raw data including sample sizes are included in supplementary data set 7. bray-curtis dissimilarities within laboratories are computed only between technical replicates handled and extracted identically between-laboratory distributions compare only replicates from the same originating specimen as processed by one laboratory to all others.

the results we present here set the scene for the next phase of addressing variability in microbiome studies.methodsmethods including statements of data availability and any associated accession codes and references are available in the .note any supplementary information and source data files are available in the .acknowledgmentsthe authors are grateful to the many additional laboratory members and scientists who contributed to the microbiome quality control project baseline study particularly during the sample handling and data generation processes.

see supplementary data set 3 for per-lab labora- tory protocol details.as a follow-up to the main set of mbqc bioinformatic experiments and protocols the complete data set was re-processed centrally using mothur v1.39.3 x 64 linux which was recorded in supplementary data set 3 as bl-10.

we expand on many previous studies that have evaluated aspects of microbiome data generation protocols although typically neither in the context of population epidemiology nor across multiple laboratories full list in supplementary data set 1 supplementary note 1.we report the baseline mbqc-base results in which we eval- uate the variability in taxonomic profiling of the gut microbiome1division of cancer epidemiology and genetics national cancer institute bethesda maryland usa.

raw data including sample sizes are included in supplementary data set 8. sample handling had a greater overall effect on distance from truth and showed greater variation than did bioinformatics some effects were specific only to locally or centrally extracted samples and appeared to be driven by contamination of only these respective sample subsets supplementary figs.

chimeric reads represented another1-5 of mismatched reads across all laboratories although this rate did not vary monotonically with number of pcr thermal cycles supplementary data set 2. interestingly read-level error rates did not correlate with handling laboratories' diversity averages.

12. although factors such as pcr re-extraction and database representation 16s versus whole genome all prevent perfect correlations between amplicon and metagenomic data this experiment supported the expected ground truth and further confirmed the variability of laboratory and bioinformatics protocols when reading out even these low-complexity communities.finally raw reads deposited by each handling laboratory before any bioinformatics were analyzed to assess the potential causes of artifacts supplementary fig.

bar length indicates the magnitude of average differences in abundance contributed by each laboratory a or variation contributed by different specimens or by noise b.  p  0.001. all parameters were tested using a likelihood ratio test with benjamini- hochberg-yekutieli fdr correction across all outcomes.top 100 ids genus pseudomonas 7 and family enterobacteriaceae 6 supplementary note 6.multivariate quantification of variationas a final joint quantification of the multiple aspects of variance among both sample handling and bioinformatics protocols we fit two mixed effects models to the transformed abundances of the four major gut phyla actinobacteria bacteroides firmicutes and proteobacteria supplementary table 8 supplementary fig.

labels indicate stratification by sample handling laboratory a specimen type b bioinformatics laboratory c or subject d. major contributors to between-sample diversity thus include biological origin handling protocol differences and bioinformatics protocol variables supplementary fig.

