overall our results sug- gested that although ph n 5.0 aw n 0.94 and shelf-life n 5 days of all semi-hard tested cheeses do satisfy the regulated criteria offor growth of l. monocytogenes  however on edam and gouda the pathogen do not managed to grow during storage at 7 degc.effect of initial indigenous microbiota on l. monocytogenes growththe impact of varying initial levels either of starter culture or in- digenous spoilage microbiota on pathogen growth was evaluated by purchasing commercial packages of cheeses on different dates in rela- tion to production and expiration date namely close to the production date approximately at the middle of their shelf-life and close to the ex- piration date.represents the effect of varying tvc population referred as batches on l. monocytogenes growth in mascarpone cream on camembert and mozzarella soft and on halloumi semi-hard cheeses during storage at 7 degc.

three major clusters of cheeses the- oretically representing different classes of risk were identified based on the levels of l. monocytogenes during storage and after exposure to sgfi cheeses showing high survival and  presence of l. monocytogenes after 120 min in sgf combined with high logarithmic increase of the pathogen during storage ii cheeses showing low survival and high  presence after 120 min in sgf combined with low logarithmic increase of l. monocytogenes during storage and iii cheeses with low survival and low  presence after 120 min in sgf combined with low logarithmic increase of l. monocytogenes during storage.

1.2-1.7 log cfug during storage at 7 degc for 20 days a. contrary to mascarpone the low initial ph of cottage 5.03 - 0.00 was possibly the major restricting factor for l. monocytogenes growth since both cheeses showed similarities in the low initial levels of indigenous microbiota p  0.05 and the significant reduction of aw p b 0.05 during storage  b c d. however previous studies have reported growth of l. monocytogenes maximum 2.0-3.0 log cfug in cottage during storage at 7 degc coming in agreement with the  according to which cottage may support the growth of l. monocytogenes based on its aw and ph  .

thus considering the variability of types and levels of intrinsic parameters on cheeses which makes the re- sponse of the pathogen also variable there is a need to expand the existing predictive models for l. monocytogenes growth on the surface of cheeses and especially on semi-hard cheeses to account for the im- pact of additional intrinsic factors such as food structure-related de- terminants and competition with background microbiota that influence the behaviour of the organism.simulated gastric fluid experimentsthe enumeration results on cottage mastelor and gouda support- ed survival of l. monocytogenes during storage at 7 degc highlighted that surviving populations of the pathogen and its  ratio of positive samples after enrichment with non-quantifiable l. monocytogenes have not been significantly p  0.05 affected by storage time beginning middle or end of storage after which gastric challenge took place i i and i. with regard to cottage the constantly low ph of the ho- mogenate sgf  cheese from 1.74 - 0.07 to 1.91 - 0.04 p  0.05 during sgf challenge was probably the main responsible factor for the low 120 min days 0 and 10 or zero 120 min day 20 positive sam- ples of l. monocytogenes after the enrichment i. on the other hand the homogenates of mastelor and gouda showed significant ph increase p b 0.05 during the simulated gastric challenge mastelorfrom 1.94 - 0.19 to 2.61 - 0.12 gouda 2.09 - 0.05 to 2.83 - 0.12resulting in more time-extended survival of the pathogen expressed either in surviving populations or  ratio of positive samples after en- richment i and i compared to cottage i. howev- er other crucial factors related to composition of mastelor and gouda such as ca.

on anthotyros and manouri the in- creased acidity during storage at 7 degc was manifested as a significant drop of ph from 6.72 - 0.01 to 4.84 - 0.00 p b 0.05 and from5.71 - 0.07 to 5.11 - 0.33 p b 0.05 respectively due to lab growth likely inhibited l. monocytogenes growth  a and c. thus although the initial ph and aw values indicated that both cheeses satisfy the requirements of for supporting growth of l. monocytogenes the relative fast decrease of ph to levels close to 4.8-5.1  along with the high competition probably inhibited growth of the pathogen.

the objectives of the present study were to assess i the survival or growth potential of l. monocytogenes on various cheeses dur- ing storage ii the effect of initial indigenous microbiota on pathogen growth in comparison to expected growth curves retrieved by existing predictive models and iii the impact of habituation onin cheeses surfaces on the subsequent acid resistance during simulated gastric digestion.

2-fold lower  moisture compared to cottage  potentially protected pathogen during storage andor permitted a persistent survival of l. monocytogenes dur- ing subsequent acid challenge .regarding mascarpone camembert and halloumi supported growth of l. monocytogenes during storage at 7 degc the enumeration and enrichment results showed that the survivors and  positive sam- ples after enrichment respectively were significantly increased p b 0.05 with storage somehow following the pattern of increased acid resistance during transition from early exponential middle of stor- age to early stationary phase of growth end of storage ii ii and ii.

monocytogenes to survive gastrointestinal simulation are limited .considering the above the objectives of the present study were i to assess the ability of various cheese types for potential growth or survival of l. monocytogenes during storage ii to evaluate the effect of initial in- digenous microbiota on pathogen growth in comparison to expected growth curves retrieved by existing predictive models and iii to exam- ine the impact of habituation onin cheeses on the subsequent acid re- sistance during simulated gastric digestion.materials and methodsl.

thus taking into account the above clustering mascarpone camembert and halloumi were characterized as cheeses of high risk red cluster when exposure tosgf for 120 min carried out close to the middle and the end of storage mascarpone and camembert or throughout storage halloumi since they showed increased survival and  presence combined with high growth of l. monocytogenes during storage.

each strain was grown separately in tryptic soy broth supplemented with 0.6 wv yeast extract tsbye lab m limited united kingdom for 24 h attable 2values of ph and aw average - standard deviation of studied cheeses purchased close to their production date inoculated with 100 cfug or cm2 of l. monocytogenes and stored under vacuum or aerobic conditions at 7 degc.cheesepha a ph and aw values during storage uppercase letters for each cheese having different letter are significantly different p b 0.05.b beginning of storage day 0.c middle of storage cottage - day 10 mascarpone - day 8 ricotta - day 8 mozzarella - day 10 camembert - day 10 anthotyros - day 8 manouri - day 8 mastelor - day 14 halloumi - day 8 edam and gouda - day 26.d end of storage cottage - day 20 mascarpone - day 16 ricotta - day 15 mozzarella - day 21 camembert - day 20 anthotyros - day 16 manouri - day 15 mastelor - day30 halloumi - day 18 edam and gouda - day 48.52a.e.

the variables that were taken into consideration were i the values of aw and ph of each cheese during storage prior to sgf challenge ii the storage days in which sgf challenge was performed iii the logarithmic increase of the pathogen and tvc during storage expressed as the enumerated populations prior to sgf challenge iv the ph increase after 120 min of sgf exposure calculated as the difference of ph value120 min and ph value5 min and v the survival enumeration and  presence enrichment after 120 min of sgf exposure.in order to group cheeses according to their potential risk of l. monocytogenes cumulatively posed by increasing in numbers on cheese during storage and withstanding the gastric acidity during simulated passage to the stomach cottagemascarpone mastelorcamembert goudahalloumi principal component analysis pca was performed xlstatr v2013 addinsoft france.

cheeses which supported growth of l. monocytogenes enabled higher survival in gastric acidity along their shelf-life compared to cheeses which did not support growth.

the solution was autoclaved and cooled to ap- proximately 37 degc followed by addition of 3.0 gl pepsin  400 units- mg protein sigma-aldrich co. usa from porcine stomach mucosa and ph adjustment to 1.5 hcl.to test the effect of simulated gastric environment on l. monocytogenes originating from the surface of different cheeses on standard time points see below the whole content of each package was removed placed into a plastic stomacher with filter bag interscience france in which 10-fold according to weight volumesof pre-warmed sgf at 37 degc were added and homogenized for 30 s. the time points of simulated gastric digestion exposure were selected ac- cording to growth curves of pathogen day 0 close to exponential phase and close to early stationary phase on cheeses supporting growth of l. monocytogenes.

two cheeses per category were selected based on their ability to support survival or growth of l. monocytogenes during storage at 7 degc according to the preceding storage trials.

were determinate on pseudomonas selective agar lab m limited united kingdom with cetrimide-fucidin-cephaloridine supplement cfc lab m limited unit- ed kingdom agar and incubated at 25 degc for 48 h yeasts and molds were determined on rose bengal chloramphenicol agar rbc lab m limited united kingdom incubated at 25 degc for 96 h. catalase and oxidase tests were also performed where was judged as necessary.the ph values of cheese samples were recorded at every sampling by using a digital ph meter ph 526 metrohm ltd. switzerland while water activity aw was monitored by a digital aw meter hydrolab rotronic switzerland at the beginning the middle and the end of storage.effect of initial indigenous microbiota on l. monocytogenes growthof the cheeses evaluated in the previous part a sub-total of cheeses which supported growth during storage at 7 degc i.e.

