after 4 days of incubation of am strain and sc cultures the residual concentration of phenanthrene was significantly lower than in con whereas after 4 days of incubation con degraded 34 of the phenanthrene supplied and am strain and sc degraded more than 75 and 99 respectively.concentration of phenanthrene and 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid hna in am con and sc in phenanthrene-supplemented cultures.

am in phenanthrene cultures to understand the interac- tions among the microorganisms present in the natural consortium during phenanthrene degradation as a sole carbon and energy source in liquid cultures.

the a phenanthrene and b 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid hna concentrations in am con and sc cultures growing in lmm with phenanthrene as a sole carbon and energy source during 15 days of incubation.

a comparative 2-de analysis of con was performed to ana- lyze the protein expression profile at different times during phenanthrene degradation in lmm supplemented with 200 mg.l-1 of phenanthrene as a sole carbon and energy source.the soluble protein fractions were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis in a ph range of 4-7 and a molecular weight range of 6.5-200 kda.

also a synthetic consortium was constructed and phenanthrene degradation and micro- bial counts were compared to those obtained in con.after 15 days of incubation degradation of the supplied phenanthrene was higher in the synthetic consortium sc than in am strain and in con  and con was the one with the lower pah elimination.

stump and colleagues  reported that competition between a generalist and the processing chain may not maximize final compound productionwhich in our case could be phenanthrene metabolites and hence phenanthrene degradation .pah degradation genes were found in the scaffold obtained from con by the functional metagenomics approach and s1p3 showed a significant similarity with a genome fragment from burkholderia sp.

am genome.considering the metagenomic results the fact that in con the yellow colonies decrease after 7 days of incubation  and that phenanthrene degradation remained constant at the same point of the incubation time  it could be argued that in con the strainbelonging to burkholderiales order is involved in the first steps of the phenanthrene degrada- tion pathway.

in the contaminant degra- dation assay the defined consortium not only achieved a major phenanthrene degradation percentage  95 but also showed a more efficient elimination of the intermediate metab- olite.

the opposite behavior occurred in the con culture where the lowest phenanthrene degradation and the highest hna accumulation were observed which suggests the pres- ence of positive and also negative interaction in con.

our results show the presence of negative interactions between bacterial populations found in a natural consortium selected by enrichment techniques moreover the synthetic syntrophic processing chain with only one microorganism with the capability of degrading phenanthrene was more efficient in contaminant and intermediate metabolite degradation than a generalist strain sphingobium sp.

am which belongs to the latter order was the only one with the ability to degrade phenanthrene as a sole carbon and energy source.

we used a metagenomic and metaproteomic approach to understand cultured and uncultured bacterial behavior in con and additionally taking into account our previous knowledge we designed a synthetic consortium sc with all of the strains isolated from con to study the degrading potential and to compare it with the natural consortium.materials and methodsisolation of a natural microbial consortium and construction of a synthetic consortiumfrom a chronically pah-contaminated soil from mosconi neighborhood coordinates s 34 52'31' w 57 55'10' near la plata city argentina no specific permissions were required for this field location because it did not involve endangered or protected species a phenan- threne-degrading bacterial consortium con was obtained by culture enrichment technique in lmm with 2000 mg l-1 of phenanthrene as detailed in previous research .five different strains were isolated form con using culture-dependent methods  and were used to construct a synthetic consortium sc these strains were sphingobium sp.

am was conducted in triplicate in lmm supplemented with 200 mg.l-1 of sterile phenanthrene as a sole carbon and energy source.

the statistical analysis of the phenanthrene degradation data were per- formed by a parametric one-way anova test using the sigmaplotsigmastat software pro- gram spss inc. chicago illinois usa.microbial enumerationsheterotrophic cultivable bacteria and pah degraders were determined at 0 4 7 and 15 days of incubation.

total dna was extracted from a culture of con in lmm with 200 mg. l-1 of phenanthrene as a sole carbon and energy source after 2 days of incubation.

