The count of Lactobacillus was expressed as the sum of the counts of six subgroups L. casei subgroup L. gasseri subgroup L. plantarum subgroup L. reuteri subgroup L. ruminis subgroup and L. sakei subgroup and two species L. brevis and L. fermentum.Measurement of Fecal Organic Acids and pHThe fecal concentration of organic acids was determined by using methods described previously  .

When subdivided by gender the count of Enterobacteriaceae was found to be negatively correlated P 0.045 with the frequency of yogurt consumption Supplementary Table 2A.Among lactobacilli L. gasseri subgroup P  0.001 and L casei subgroup P0.005 counts had a positive association withthe frequency of yogurt consumption whereas L. sakei subgroupTABLE 2  Fecal microbiota organic acids and pH in healthy Japanese young adults n  293.

In male subjects Enterobacteriaceae Staphylococcus and L. sakei subgroup correlated negatively with yogurt consumption whereas in females L. casei subgroup and succinic acid shared a positive association with yogurt consumption  the entire results are summarized in Supplementary Table 4.

Briefly the minimum detection limit log10 cellsg feces for various bacterial clades analyzed in here were as follows 5.0 for Clostridium coccoides group Clostridium leptum subgroup Bacteroides fragilis group Bifidobacterium Atopobium cluster and Prevotella 2.4 for Clostridium perfringens Lactobacillus Lactobacillus gasseri subgroup L. reuteri subgroup L. ruminis subgroup L. plantarum subgroup L. sakei subgroup andL.

In the present study also yogurt consumption was found to be associated with increase in Lactobacillus especially L. gasseri subgroup and decrease in Enterobacteriaceae and Staphylococcus male only counts thereby corroborating that the consumption of yogurt andor probiotics could enhance the intestinal population level of Lactobacillus while reducing that of Enterobacteriaceae and Staphylococcus.Several previous cross-sectional studies on people having broad backgrounds have demonstrated significant association of microbiota with dietary elements such as fat carbohydrates   vegetarian diet   and an agrarian diet which is rich in fruits and legume fiber  .

Briefly significant differences were confirmed in total bacteria P 0.013 Bifidobacterium P 0.046 fecal pH P 0.007 total organic acids P 0.030 succinic acid P 0.007 and formic acid P 0.034 along with insignificant differences in L. gasseri subgroup P 0.052 acetic acid P 0.078 and isovaleric acid P 0.058 Supplementary Table 3.The GLM-based assessment of linear relation between microbiota and yogurt consumption frequency demonstrated positive associations for Lactobacillus and L. gasseri subgroup in both male and female subjects.

In addition the yogurt-microbiota correlation was also found to differ significantly according to the host gender yogurt consumption associated negatively with L. sakei subgroup Enterobacteriaceae and Staphylocossus counts in males whilstsharing a positive association with L. casei subgroup count and succinic acid concentration in female subjects.

While the association with L. gasseri subgroup was consistent in both male P 0.007 and female P  0.001 subjects L. casei and L. sakei subgroups showed significant correlation only in female P  0.001 and male P  0.001 subjects respectively.

A Lactobacillus B L. gasseri subgroup C L. sakei subgroup D L. casei subgroup E Enterobacteriaceae F Staphylococcus and G succinic acid.

Hence it had already been nearly 3 months since the students have experienced a major change in their life circumstances and routine.Subjects were asked to provide fecal specimen and answer a questionnaire about their habitual frequency of yogurt prebiotics hereafter collectively referred to as yogurt consumption over the last 2 months by selecting one of the following four options1 1-2 3-5 or 6-7 days in a week dwk.

