recent studies have shown that the european microbiome is dominated by the bacteroides enterotype whereas the african microbiome was dominated by the prevotella enterotype.we observed associations between neovascular amd and microbiome composition at the taxonomical levels of bacterial genera and species.

to describe the functional profile of the intestinal microbiome the hmp human microbiome project unified metabolic analysis network humann was used.

furthermore twins have more comparable microbiome compositions than unrelated individuals suggesting that genetics may influence the microbiome composition.

the complement system may provide a link between host genome and microbiome and remains an area of active investigation.our study suggests that the intestinal microbiome may play an important role in the development of neovas- cular amd and may constitute a link between nutrition and development of this common disease.methodsstudy design and recruitment.

nat methods 9 811-814 doi 10.1038nmeth.2066 2012.human microbiome project c. a framework for human microbiome research.

openreceived 26 september 2016accepted 12 december 2016published 17 january 2017association of the intestinal microbiome with the development of neovascular age-related macular degenerationmartin s. zinkernagel12 denise c. zysset-burri12 irene keller23 lieselotte e. berger1 alexander b. leichtle4 carlo r. largiader4 georg m. fiedler4  sebastian wolf12age-related macular degeneration amd is the most frequent cause of blindness in the elderly.

to investigate whether compositional and functional alterations of the intestinal microbiome are associated with amd we sequenced the gut metagenomes of patients with amd and controls.

these findings suggest that modifications in the intestinal microbiome are associated with amd inferring that this common sight threatening disease may be targeted by microbiome-altering interventions.age-related macular degeneration amd 1a is the leading cause of severe visual impairment in the elderly population of industrialized countries.

intestinal microbial organisms and their genomes collectively termed microbiome play a major role in the digestion of food and in this way influence the global metabolism of their host.

the intestinal microbiome forms a complex ecosystem of up to 100 trillion microbes and shows substantial diversity of gut communities among individuals.

however changes in microbiome composition can potentially modulate or alternatively stress host metabolism and may act as sources of inflammation and disease.

recent findings have identified the intestinal microbiome as a contributor to metabolic diseases such as atherosclerosis which is associated with lipid accumulation and inflammation in the arterial wall.

furthermore a recent report has sug- gested that the intestinal microbiome may trigger autoimmune response in the eye through activation signals to retina specific t cells.

given the link between amd and diet the composition of the intestinal microbiome may also influence amd development and progression.

this link has recently been substantiated in an animal model where alterations in the intestinal microbiome have resulted in exacerabation of choroidal neovascularization a hallmark of neovascular amd.

