a 2008 meta-analysis showed that bacterial vaginosis was associated with a 1.6 times increased risk of hiv acquisition a study of 174 rwandan sex workers showed a strong association between the structure of the vaginal microbiome and hiv status in a study of at-risk women in kenya bacterial vaginosis and herpes simplex virus 2 infection were the two strongest risk factors associated with hiv acquisition over a 20-year period bacterial vaginosis is known to be more common in african-american women motivating studies of associations with hiv infection in contrast a study of the vaginal microbiome in 64 women in chicago showed no differences associated with hiv infection another study comparing vaginal micro- biota in women from rwanda and the united states together with hiv status found modest differences forboth geographic site and infection status thus reported associations between hiv status and structure of the vaginal microbiota have varied with cohort and geographical location.here we study the vaginal microbiome in women sampled at two hospitals in chicago - stroger hospital of cook county and northwestern memorial hospital nmh that serve quite different socioeconomic groups one relatively affluent nmh and the other less advantaged stroger hospital of cook county 1a.

the median income of patients at stroger hospital of cook county hospital was inferred to be between 1 and 25 000 whereas that of those from nmh was between 75 000 and 100 000.the hiv status of the women in these two cohorts is shown in 1a-c. a total of 71 of 128 55 women included in this study from stroger hospital of cook county were hivth whereas 19 of 50 38 of the nmh women were hivth.several clinical measures differed between the two hospital cohorts  1. the vaginal ph was higher in the stroger hospital of cook county cohort than in the nmh cohort p  0.001 1. the average nugent score an indication of bacterial vaginosis was also higher in the stroger hospital of cook county cohort than in the nmh cohort p  0.001 supple- mental table 1 similar to previous observations the average nugent score was higher in older women p  0.001.several clinical parameters differed between hivand hivwomen within each cohort 1. the cd4th cell counts did not differ between hospitals mean of 516 versus 561 cellsml and were well above the aids- defining threshold of 200 cellsml.

a total of 19 of the 21 women who switched bacterial vaginosis status were from stroger hospital of cook county whereas only two were from nmh 4 fisher's exact test p 0.007. both nmh women switched from being bacterial vaginosis-negative to positive 11 of the 19 58 stroger hospital of cook county women switched from bacterial vaginosis-negative to positive.the propensity to switch states was next queried relative to sample metadata.

self-identified african-amer- ican women were diagnosed with bacterial vaginosis more frequently fisher's exact test p 0.00112 odds ratio or 3.48 consistent with previous literature african-american women were also more likely to be hivth fisher's exact test p 14 0.00014 or 14 3.77.we then asked whether there was a positive association between bacterial vaginosis and hivth.

although bacterial vaginosis has previously been associated with hiv transmission most of the women studied here became hivth many years before our test for bacterial vaginosis thus implicating additional mechanisms linking hiv infection and bacterial vaginosis.copyright c 2017 wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.aids 2017 31895-904keywords bacterial vaginosis cervical mucus cervicovaginal mucus lentivirus microbiome transmissionadepartment of microbiology school of medicine university of pennsylvania philadelphia pennsylvania bdepartment of cellular and molecular biology feinberg school of medicine northwestern university and ccore center stroger hospital of cook county chicago illinois usa.correspondence to frederic d. bushman department of microbiology school of medicine university of pennsylvania 3610 hamilton walk philadelphia pa 19104-6076 usa.e-mail received 7 september 2016 revised 20 december 2016 accepted 16 january 2017. issn 0269-9370 copyright q 2017 wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.895copyright c 2017 wolters kluwer health inc. all rights reserved.introductionas the human microbiome comes to be better under- stood interest has shifted to understanding differences between human populations and associations with disease.

analysis of the vaginal microbiome showed notable associations between high diversity states high ph and bacterial vaginosis as inferred from nugent scores paralleling previous studies previous studies have differed on associations between hiv status and bacterial vaginosis here we found that hiv status was correlated with bacterial vaginosis status.our most unexpected finding came from the longitudinal analysis in which switching of bacterial vaginosis status turned out to be associated with self-identified african- american race though this was not detectably linked to hiv status.

for women with the highest viral loads 1000 copiesml there was a trend toward higher diversity p 0.188. for women with cd4th cell counts below 200 cellsml there was no significant difference in shannon diversity comparison of samples with 200 versus 200 cellsml yielded p 0.8256. thus the most hiv-affected women were not detectably different though our power to detect differences was low due to the small numbers.global analysis of patient metadata and bacterial measurementsgiven the large amount of patient metadata collected we were able to carry out a global investigation of associations between patient information and bacterial measure- ments including proportion of lactobacillus sum of proinflammatory genera and shannon diversity 3. we converted variables such as hiv status presence of anfig.

rates of bacterial vaginosis were higher among african-american women and hivth women.

unexpectedly african-american women were more likely to switch bacterial vaginosis status between sampling times switching was not associated with hivth status.conclusion the influence of hiv infection on the vaginal microbiome was modest for this cohort of well suppressed urban american women consistent with effective antiretroviral therapy.

b contingency table showing the frequency of bacterial vaginosis status switching compar- ing african-american women with other women in the study.opportunistic infection and oral steroids into binary variables.

self-identified african-american women were found to switch bacterial vaginosis status more frequently 4b fisher's exact test p 0.015. this was found to account for the greater frequency of switching in the comparison between hospitals because the stroger hospital of cook county cohort included a higher percentage of african-american women.

in both cohorts shannon diversity was higher for the hiv women but the range was quite wide so the p value only trended toward significance p 14 0.186.associations of bacterial vaginosis hiv and race these data showed an association between bacterial vaginosis hiv and race.

eighty-two women provided at least two samples with a known bacterial vaginosis status for several samples excluding instances when the examining physician categorized the bacterial vaginosis state as 'indeterminate'.

the timing between samples was comparable in women from both hospitals.to investigate longitudinal dynamics we thus compared the frequency of switching between bacterial vaginosis and non-bacterial vaginosis states.

finally the fact that patients were well cared for limited the number of patients with low cd4th cell counts and high viral loads which would have been useful to compare with other studies that reported larger differences in the vaginal microbiota associated with hiv infection.bacterial vaginosis has been associated with de novo hiv infection in previous work in contrast most of the women studied here had been hiv for many years but still a positive association between hiv and bacterial vaginosis was detectable.

