if common underlying risk factors can lead to gut and cen- tral nervous system pathology then it is logical to consider relationships between gi symptoms and core or associated behavioral symptoms in asd.based upon clinical experience we hypothesized that severe constipation would be associated with more promi- nent rigid-compulsive symptoms in asd.

we used the questionnaire on pedi- atric gastrointestinal symptoms--rome iii to assess fc symptoms in 108 children with asd.

increase or decrease repetitive behavior or gastro- intestinal symptoms including serotonin reuptake inhibi- tors atypical antipsychotics psychostimulants alpha agonists and constipation medications.assessment of gastrointestinal symptomsgi symptoms were assessed using the questionnaire on pediatric gastrointestinal symptoms-rome iii qpgs- riii baber et al.

was used to assess rigid-com- pulsive symptoms and other repetitive behavior symptoms.

first data were only available from a single point in time preventing us from understanding whether changes in func- tional constipation symptoms predict changes in rigid- compulsive symptoms or vice versa.

this sug- gests that gi symptoms could help to identify a subgroup of children who may share a common pattern of asd symptoms.

similarly associations between gi symptoms and measures of autonomic function were much more mod- est than the behavioral symptoms observed here fergu- son et al.

more research is needed to understand the mechanisms underlying these associations.keywords developmental  gut  enteric  medical comorbidity  obsessive compulsive disorder  serotonin  microbiome1 department of psychiatry vanderbilt university nashville tn usa2 interdisciplinary neuroscience program the thompson center for autism and neurodevelopmental disorders university of missouri columbia mo usa3 departments of pediatrics psychology and psychiatry vanderbilt university nashville tn usa4 department of gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition nationwide children's hospital columbus oh usa5 biostatistics center massachusetts general hospital boston ma usa6 institute for the developing mind's developmental neurogenetics children's hospital los angeles los angeles ca usa7 departments of neurogenetics pediatrics neuroscience pharmacy psychiatry pathology and psychology keck school of medicine university of southern california los angeles ca usa8 department of pediatrics division of pediatric gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition columbia university new york ny usaintroductionwithin the diagnostic criteria for autism spectrum disor- der considerable variability can be seen in presentation of core symptoms particularly in the repetitive behavior domain american psychiatric association .

in addition to variability in behavioral and cognitive symptoms a num- ber of medical problems are more common in asd than in the general population and may offer clues to dissect the considerable heterogeneity within this behaviorally defined disorder mattila et al.

.gastrointestinal gi symptoms are fourfold more preva- lent in asd than in the general population with constipa- tion as the most commonly reported symptom aldinger et al.

in the absence of more detailed data on gi symptoms we operationalized severe constipation as co-occurring reports of constipation with soiling or9 interdisciplinary neuroscience program the thompson center for autism and neurodevelopmental disorders departments of radiology neurology and psychological sciences university of missouri columbia mo usa10 department of psychiatry and sackler institutefor developmental psychobiology columbia university new york ny usa11 new york state psychiatric institute new york ny usa12 new york presbyterian hospital center for autismand the developing brain 1051 riverside drive mail unit 78 new york ny usadiarrhea suggestive of overflow encopresis which itself was not directly ascertained within the as-atn data set peters et al.

children with constipation alone without other co-occurring gi symptoms also showed significant asso- ciation with clinician diagnosis of ocd.

specifically this study examined the associations between functional constipation and measures of rigid-compulsive behavior as well as with verbal ability and other measures of symptoms in the repetitive behavior domain including sensory sensitivity  aversion.methodsparticipantsstudy procedures were approved by the institutional review boards at vanderbilt university and the uni- versity of missouri.

sensory symptoms were evaluated using caregiver report on the sensory over-responsivity inven- tory sensor schoen et al.

the primary behavioral outcome measure was the compulsive behavior subscale of the rbs-r. secondary outcome measures included the ritualistic behavior and sameness behavior subscales of the rbs-r bonferroni corrected significance thresh- old p  0.017. tertiary outcome measures included the other three subscales of the rbs-r tactile sensitivity aversion symptoms as assessed by the sensor and the five subscales of the abc bonferroni corrected signifi- cance threshold p  0.004. fisher's exact test and one-way analysis of variance were used to compare categorical and continuous characteristics by qpgs-riii diagnosis group respectively.

