lifetime mj use correlated inversely with prevotellabacteroides ratio p  0.05 mt function p  0.0027-0.0057 and flanker inhibitory control and attention p  0.041. prevotella abundance correlated posi- tively while bacteroides abundance correlated inversely with mt function across all participants p  0.0004-0.06. prevotella abundance also correlated positively with scores of fluid cognition flanker inhibitory control and attention list sorting and dimension change card sort in mj users but not in non-users interaction-p  0.018-0.05. similarly mt function correlated positively with scores of jun panee1 department of cell and molecular biology john a burns school of medicine university of hawaii 651 ilalo street bsb 222 honolulu hi 96813 usa2 department of medicine john a burns school of medicine university of hawaii 1356 lusitana street uh tower 7th floor honolulu hi 96813 usafluid cognition and flanker inhibitory control and attention in mj users but not in non-users interaction- p  0.0018-0.08. these preliminary findings suggest that mj use is associated with alterations of gut microbiota and mt function which may further contribute to cognitive defi- cits.

therefore the lower mt function in those with greater bacteroides abun- dance might also be mediated by propionate production.thc or cannabis effects on pbmc mt oxygen consumption and cognitive functionalthough our mj users as a group had higher mt atp produc- tion than nonusers those who had greater lifetime mj use had lower atp production.

recently cannabinoid cb1 receptor was found in neuronal mitochondria mt membrane where it mediated the inhibitory effect of d9-tetrahydrocannabinol thc on mt respiration and energy production benard et al.

mt share some common structure and function with bacteria and microbiota can interact with host cells through regulating mt biogenesis saint-georges-chaumet and edeas .

therefore chronic mj use may be associated with altered abundances of prevotella and bacteroides which in turn may affect systemic mt function and cognition.we carried out a pilot study in a small cohort of subjects as a first step to examine the possible relationships among mi- crobiota composition mt respiration and cognitive function in the context of chronic mj use.

atp production was used as the primary measurement of mt function and basal andmaximal respiration rates were considered as the secondary measurements of mt function.

d. meanwhile mt maximal respiration rate correlated with the abundance of log-prevotella r  0.54 p  0.035 data not shown but not with that of bacteroides.greater log lifetime mj use was associated with lower mt atp production r  -0.72 p  0.0057 fig.

3 kg their mt atp production was higher than the mean value of nonusers while heavier mj users had lower mt atp production than the mean value of nonusers fig.

however regardless of mj use status mt function positively correlated with the abundance of prevotella but inversely correlated with that of bacteroides.these findingsprovide a preliminary framework for further explorations of the possible relationships between mj use gut microbiota mt func- tion and cognitive function.mj use dietary patterns and prevotellaprevotella and bacteroides are two dominant and antagonistic genera of phylum bacteroidetes with the former associated with plant-based diet high in fruits and fiber and the latter associated with animal-based diet high in protein and fat ley .

future studies should evaluate butyrate levels in mj users to determine whether they have lower levels that might contribute to the cognitive deficits.possible relationships between mt function and microbiotaprevotella abundance as a marker of greater plant-based food intake correlated positively with mt atp production and bas- al respiration across all participants.

plant-based foods typically contain higher levels of antioxidants than an- imal food products which may explain why higher levels of prevotella associated with higher dietary intake of plant- derived antioxidants may provide protection against oxida- tive stress and lead to greater mt function.conversely the inverse correlations between bacteroides abundance and mt activities may be related to relatively lower levels of antioxidants in animal food prod- ucts.

notably many of these in vitro studies used supraphysiological doses of cannabinoids which is consistent with our observation that heavier mj use was associated with lower systemic mt function.in our relatively small sample although mj users and nonusers had similar cognitive performance at the group level significant correlations between measures of mt function and cognitive performance were found only in the mj user group.

both mitochondrial mt dysfunction and gut dysbiosis also affect cognition.

we examined whether cogni- tion is related to peripheral blood mononuclear cells' pbmcs mt function and fecal microbiota in chronic mj users.

nineteen chronic mj users and 20 non-users were eval- uated using the cognition battery in nih toolbox their mt function for atp production and basal and maximal respira- tions were measured in pbmcs using the seahorse xfe96 analyzer and the abundances of prevotella and bacteroides associated with plant-based and animal product-based diet respectively were calculated from stool microbiota analysis.

