and the epithelium metabolism network including metabolism of cofactors and vitamins metabolism of other amino acids lipid metabolism energy metabolism xenobiotics biodeg- radation and metabolism amino acid metabolism carbo- hydrate metabolism glycan biosynthesis and metabolism fig.

promotion of primary bile acid biosynthesis by gpr87 and hdac1 probably enhances glu- cose metabolism and energy expenditure via the bile acid signaling pathway all the abovementioned changes in the epithelium metabolism of the mc group will improveenergy supplements for the animal.

these re- sults suggest that epithelium homeostasis is maintained by gpr and hdac co-regulation mechanisms.our analysis of the epithelium metabolism network has revealed that in the mc group the changed expressions of gpr1 87 89a and hdac1 possibly enhance energy me- tabolism by promoting the expressions of seven genes re- lated to mitochondrial respiratory chain function.

furthermore our data sug- gest the gpr87 and hdac1 play more important roles in the ruminal epithelium than other members of the respect- ive families.according to our epithelium growth network in the mc group gpr1 89a and 155 might promote cell prolifera- tion and differentiation via the mapk sphingolipid insulin and oxytocin signaling pathways.

microbiome 2017 5123doi 10.1186s40168-017-0341-zassociations among dietary non-fiber carbohydrate ruminal microbiota and epithelium g-protein-coupled receptor and histone deacetylase regulations in goatshong shen12 zhongyan lu3 zhihui xu12 zhan chen12 and zanming shen3backgroundevidence continues to increase implying that the gastrointestinal gi microbiota is the critical con- tributor to host health and gi homeostasis the dysbiosis of gi microbiota leads to the pathogenesis of a diverse range of diseases affecting host growth and metabolism.

as for hdacs the upregulation of hdac 4 5 6 and 10 was correlated to the downregulation of five neigh- bors that regulated the cell apoptosis survival prolifera- tion and differentiation via modulation of 14 signaling pathways.in the epithelium metabolism network the upregulation of gpr1 87 and 89a expression was correlated to the upregulation of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide de- hydrogenase subunits 2 4 and 4l nd2 4 4l h trans- porting adenosine triphosphate synthase atp5h and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide dehydrogenase 1 alpha subcomplex 4 ndufa4.

these two kinds of enzymes modulated the xenobiotic biodegradation and metabolism of the rumen epithelium.

all of these enzymes regulate glycan biosynthesis and metabolism in the rumen epithelium.

the enhanced capability of amino acid metabolism by the epithelium might increase ketone synthesis provid- ing more energy for the animal.

our results suggest that the regulation of gprs and hdacs in epithelium metabolism have major effects via the modulation of the expression of related enzymes.

members of clostridiumiv are well known to be the major butyrate- producing bacteria in the animal gut 4. a previous study has shown that the depletion of butyrate-producing bac- teria is a common feature in patients suffering from inflam- matory bowel diseases ibd and colorectal cancer crc despite limitations we speculate that butyrate- producing bacteria play an important role in the promotion of epithelium growth and metabolism via the modulation of the expression of gpr1.

for example global gene expression profiling in a study of bovine rumen epithelium cell cultures has shown that exogenous butyrate promotes the expression of genes associated with cell growth signal transduction and immune responses  by dietary intervention and ruminal butyrate infusion our in vivo investigations have demonstrated that scfas promote the expression of genes involved in epithe- lium growth and scfa transport .the ability of scfas to modulate physiological pro- cesses of the epithelium is well known to depend on two major mechanisms in monogastric animals.

by the simultaneous measurement of the re- sponses of rumen microbiota and epithelium to dietary modulation we have gained better insights into the nature of diet-microbiota-host interactions.methodsanimalssix male goats boer x yangtze river delta white aged 4 months 17.97 - 0.84 kg were randomly allo- cated into two groups and received either a diet of 65 hay plus 35 concentrate containing 30 nfc mc group n  3 or a diet of 90 hay plus 10 con- centrate containing 15 nfc lc group n  3 additional file table s1.

on the phylum level the diversity of bacteroidetes and firmicutes in the mc group was significantly higher than that in the lc group p  0.05. the diversity of synergistetes in the mc group was significantly lower than that in the lc group additional file fig.

all of these enzymes were related to the oxidative phosphorylation of energy metabolism.

