because membrane cholesterol is required for vaginolysin to functionand because hmg-coa reductase inhibitors statins affect not only serum levels of choles- terol but membrane levels as well we hypothesized that statins might affect the vaginal microbiome.methodsto investigate the relationship between use of the statins and the vaginal microbiome we analyzed 16s rrna gene taxonomic surveys performed on vaginal samples from 133 women who participated in the vaginal human microbiome project and who were taking statins at the time of sampling 152 women who reported high cholesterol levels but were not taking statins and 316 women who did not report high cholesterol.

because prior studies suggest that the vaginal microbiome changes following menopause resulting in lower proportions of lactobacilli we divided the cohorts into pre- and postmenopausal based primarily on self- report of the few women who did not report menopausal status their menopausal status was predicted based on the average age of 51 years for menopause in the u.s.. the trend of higher rates of cst i and lower rates of cst iv among aa women taking statins remained however the only comparisons that were still significant were numbers of cst i among pre- menopausal aa women taking statins versus those with normal or high cholesterol but not taking statins p  0.0177 and p  0.0217 respectively and numbers of cst iv among pre- menopausal aa women taking statins versus those with normal cholesterol and not taking statins p  0.0305.statin use is associated with decreased abundance of g. vaginaliswe used linear discriminant analysis lda effect size lefse to determine whether specific bacterial taxa were significantly associated with statin use.

to examine the effect of statins on the cytolytic effect of vaginolysin the cholesterol-dependent cytolysin cdc produced by gardnerella vaginalis we assessed the effect of simvastatin pretreatment of vk2e6e7 vaginal epithelial cells on vaginolysin-mediated cytotoxicity.resultsthe mean proportion of g. vaginalis among women taking statins was significantly lower rel- ative to women not using statins.

results for individual ldh assays were compared using one-way analysis of variance anova with tukey post-test for com- parison of individual groups.resultsstatin use is associated with vaginal community state typewe analyzed the 16s rrna survey profiles of vaginal swabs from 72 aa and 61 ea women who were using statins at the time of sampling 83 aa and 69 ea women who reported high cholesterol but were not taking statins and 160 aa and 156 ea women who did not report high cholesterol and were not taking statins.

stacked bar plots showing vaginal microbial community profiles from 316 women who did not report high cholesterol and who were not taking statins 152 women reported having high cholesterol but who were taking statins and 133 women who were taking statins.

the chart on top compares vaginal microbiota from women with high cholesterol who were not taking statins to women taking statins and the lower chart compares vaginal microbiota from women with normal cholesterol who were not taking statinsto women taking statins b. boxplot of g.vaginalis proportions in subjects grouped based on ethnicity and sub- grouped based on statin use and normal versus high cholesterol with whiskers that extend to the highestlowest value within 1.5 times the interquartile range outliers beyond the whiskers are plotted as points.

women using statins had higher mean proportions of lac- tobacillus crispatus relative to women with normal cholesterol levels and higher levels ofcompeting interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.lactobacillus jensenii relative to women with high cholesterol but not taking statins.

we used a system of categorizing community state types cst that was similar to what has been published previ- ously  and found that cst i l. crispatus was significantly more common among aa who were taking statins users relative to those who were not taking statins regardless of whether they reported normal fisher test p  0.0042 or high cholesterol p  0.0297 .

illustrates that according to lefse the proportion of g. vaginalis was significantly lower in statin users 8.3 relative to non-statin users with either normal 15.6 wilcoxon p  0.026 or high cholesterol information about study participants.parameters listed in the table were self-reported.1statin use or non-use was confirmed by medical record abstraction.2a small number of women did not report menopausal status and among this group menopause was predicted based on age 51 years.16.7 p  0.047. in contrast the proportion of l. jensenii was greater in statin users 3.9 relative to those who reported high cholesterol but were not taking statins 2.9 p  0.011 whereas the proportion of l. crispatus was higher in statin users 23.9 relative to those who did not report high cholesterol 14.7 p  0.013 and were not taking statins.

and reveals a negative association between statin use and colo- nization by g. vaginalis relative to aa women with normal cholesterol levels who were not using statins p  0.0083 and aa women with high cholesterol who were not using statins p  0.0439.microbial community profiles of women grouped by statin use.

this may be because the number of women in the postmenopausal group was too small to achieve sufficient statistical power.in addition to the association between vaginal cst and statin use we found that the mean proportion of g. vaginalis was lower in the vaginal microbiomes of women who used statins relative to those of women who were not using statins.

for example there may exist behavioral differences between women with high cholesterol who are not using statins and women who are using statins such as likelihood of seeking healthcare.

statins are significantly less effective at reducing ldl in aa women suggesting that there may be a differ- ence in cholesterol metabolism or in the effect of statins in this group.

statins are pharmacologic agents that inhibit hmg-coa reductase an enzyme required for mevalonate synthesis.

consequently statins reduce cholesterol synthesis and lower serum cholesterol which reduces the risk for cardiovascular disease.

