.together these data show that 1 in vitro bacterial anti- gens control hepatic mirna expression in a dose-dependent manner and 2 in vivo hepatic mirna expression is asso- ciated with liver triacylglycerol content during gut microbiota dysbiosis.hepatic mirna expression is significantly associated with liver triacylglycerol content and with firmicutes and b. acidifaciens relative abundance during metabolic adaptation to hfd feeding in micethe hepatic expression of mir-181a mir-666 and mir-21 was studied in our model of metabolic adaptation to hfd.

.in summary these data identify that firmicutes proteobacteria and b. acidifaciens of the gut microbiota cor- relate with hepatic triacylglycerol content during metabolic adaptation to hfd feeding in mice.bacterial antigens drive hepatic mirna expression in vitrogut microbiota dysbiosis can drive liver disease  mirna are known modulators of liver pathophysiology  and the gut microbiota modulates mirna expression .

since the severity of hepatic disease is characterised by specific microrna mirna signatures and the gut mi- crobiota is a key driver of both hepatic disease and mirna expression we analysed the expression of three hepatic mirna and studied their correlation with hepatic triacylglyc- erol content and gut microbiota.methods two cohorts of c57bl6 4-week-old wild-type wt male mice n  62 and n  96 were fed an hfd for 3 months to provide a model of metabolic adaptation.

conclusionsinterpretation we propose the involvement of hepatic mirna liver triacylglycerols and gut microbiota as a new triad that underlies the molecular mechanisms by which gut microbiota governs hepatic pathophysiology during met- abolic adaptation to hfd.keywords gut microbiota .

hence based on the adaptation of both mice and microbes to a fatty environment a divergent metabolic phenotype may arise as we also recently reported with regard to cardio-metabolic adaptation to hfd in mice .from a molecular perspective mirna represent promising molecules that may link gut microbiota dysbiosis to metabolic outcomes.

thus we further confirm our previous findings from an analy- sis of hepatic gene expression during metabolic adaptation to hfd in mice reinforcing the reproducibility of the animal model used in this study .specific bacterial groups in the gut microbiota are associated with hepatic triacylglycerol content during metabolic adaptation to hfd feeding in micewe previously demonstrated that a specific gut microbiotathat bacteroidetes showed a non-significant correlation with liver triacylglycerol content fig.

doi 10.1007s00125-017-4209-3associations between hepatic mirna expression liver triacylglycerols and gut microbiota during metabolic adaptation to high-fat diet in micevincent blasco-baque123  berengere coupe 4  aurelie fabre12  sandra handgraaf 12 pierre gourdy 12  jean-francois arnal 12  michael courtney4 carole schuster-klein5  beatrice guardiola5  francois terce12  remy burcelin12 matteo serino 126received 1 september 2016  accepted 14 december 2016  published online 19 january 2017 the authors 2017. this article is published with open access at springerlink.comabstractaimshypothesis despite the current pandemic of metabolic diseases our understanding of the diverse nature of the devel- opment of metabolic alterations in people who eat a high-fat diet hfd is still poor.

therefore we tested whether liver triacylglycerol content was associated with both gut microbiota and hepatic mirna expression in a mouse model of metabolic adaptation to an hfd.

.in summary hepatic mirna expression is associated with both variations in liver triacylglycerol content and specific taxa of the gut microbiota during metabolic adaptation to hfd fig.

5 hepatic mirna expression analysis and correlation with liver triacylglycerols and gut microbiota during metabolic adaptation to hfd in mice.

with regard to mirna expression there was less variation in mir-181a expression between models suggesting this mirna did not undergo metabolic adaptation and that there was no link with liver triacylglycerol levels fig.

this evidence sug- gests that during the adaptation to hfd hepatic mirna expression follows a different pattern of regulation.

importantly we recently showed that the microbial rig-i-like receptor signal- ling pathway is one of the most upregulated pathways during cardio-metabolic adaptation to hfd in mice  corroborat- ing its implication in this phenomenon.in conclusion we propose a new triad linking gut microbi- ota hepatic mirna expression and liver triacylglycerol con- tent.

no data samples or animals were excluded from this study.animal model for metabolic adaptation to hfd an initial cohort of 62 and a second cohort of 96 c57bl6 4-week-old wild-type wt male mice charles river l'arbresle france were fed an hfd 72 fat corn oil and lard 28 protein and 1 carbohydrate safe augy france for 3 months .

multivariate analyses were performed using the spearman correlation coefficient and p values were adjusted using the benjamini-hochberg correction available at  accessed 12 november 2016. a string analysis was performed to study the network of genes targeted by mir-21 these genes were identified using the software mirtarbase  accessed 20 june 2016 .resultshepatic triacylglycerol content correlates with metabolic adaptation to hfd feeding in micewe aimed to investigate the effect of diabetogenicnon- obesogenic hfd in hepatic steatosis.

