the third common vaginal dysbiosis parallel with bv and mf is aerobic vaginitis av that has been defined as an aerobic counterpart of bv .the aim of this study was to assess the effects of bv mf and yeast infection on genital hpv infection the predictors of bv and their outcomes in the asymptomatic woman.materials and methodsthe finnish family hpv study is a prospective cohort study conducted at the turku university hospital and university of turku as previously described  .

heavy smoking 20 cigarettes per day was linked with bv p  0.016. also history of being treated for genital warts p  0.003 was associated with the bv diagnosis.discussionthe most important findings of the present study were 1 mf and yeast infection were linked with prevalent hpv infectionbv was associated with hpv persistence and 3 smoking and history of genital warts were positively associated with bv.

in the longitudinal setting bv predicted hpv per- sistence implicating that treatment of asymptomatic bv in women with cervical hr-hpv infections might be justified.keywords bacterial vaginosis .

bv is of clinical significance being associated with adverse reproduc- tive outcomes such as increased risk for sexually transmitted diseases std  .mixed flora mf has been speculated to be a transient phase between normal flora and bv.

the present study focuses on mf bv and yeast infection and their impact on the outcomes of genital hpv infections prevalence persistence as well as on the predictors of bv.

in addition hayison criteria were used for defining bv as follows grade i normal flora lactobacillus morphotype only grade ii mf or intermediate flora reduced lactobacillus morphotype with mixed bacterialmorphotypes grade iii bv mixed bacterial morphotypes with few or absent lactobacillus morphotypes .

furthermore bv was significantly associated with hpv persistence p  0.024 or 2.15 95 ci 1.13-4.08while no such link was found between yeast infection andtable 2the bacterial vaginosis tagged in bold italic bacterial vaginosis bv and human papillomavirus hpv status of the 40 women who had bacterial vaginosis at any follow-up points during the studymo monthsat the time of delivery only hpv testing but no pap test was donehpv persistence.

our purpose was to study the prevalence of mixed flora mf bacterial vaginosis bv and yeast infection in women with known hpv outcomes during the 72-month follow-up fu.

conventional pap smears were scored for mf bv and yeast infection.

bv was detected in 12.2 40 329 mf in 57.4 189329 and yeast infection in 22.9 73329 of the women.

bv but not yeast infection was a significant covariate of hpv persistence p  0.024 or 2.15 95 ci 1.13-4.08. mf and yeast infection were associated with prevalent cervical hpv infection.

since the cofactors in hpv persistence are not fully elucidated there is an interest in the impact of vaginal microbiome on hpv per- sistence -.bacterial vaginosis bv is a common condition charac- terized with high load of anaerobic micro-organisms and their byproducts damaging vaginal epithelium and degrading the protective cervical mucosa -.

in bv anaerobic bacteria disturb the normal balance of vaginal flora causing a 1000 times higher load of bacteria than found normally.

mf consists of bacteria often associated with bv but in addition contains a significant amount of lactobacilli .

mf was detected in 57.4 189329 bv in 12.2 40329 and yeast infection in 22.9 73329 of the women.

