analysis of gut micro- biota in coronary artery disease patients a possible link between gut microbiota and coronary artery disease journal of atherosclerosis and thrombosis vol.

as shown in table  diversity of the chd patients' microbiota was significantlyabundance of reads in chd patients accounting for 56.12 in total which was lower than that in the controls 60.92100806040200chdsamplecontrolbacteroidetes firmicutes proteobacteria fusobacteria actinobacteria verrucomicrobia tenericutes cyanobacteria acidobacteria euryarchaeota synergisteteschloroflexi candidatedivisiontm7 planctomycetes lentisphaerae gemmatimonadetes thaumarchaeota elusimicrobia nitrospiraechlorobi otherfigure 3 the intestinal flora distribution of total sample on phylum classification in chd patients and healthy controls.

decreased bacterial diversity characterizes the altered gut microbiota in patients with psoriatic arthritis resembling dysbiosis in inflammatory bowel disease arthritis and rheumatology vol.

reduction in diversity of the colonic mucosa associated bacterial microflora in patients with active inflammatory bowel disease gut vol.

dinakaran a. rathinavel m. pushpanathan r. sivakumar p. gunasekaran and j. rajendhran elevated levels of circulating dna in cardiovascular disease patients metagenomic profiling of microbiome in the circulation plos one vol.

obesity and car- diovascular disease pathophysiology evaluation and effect of weight loss an update of the 1997 american heart association scientific statement on obesity and heart disease from the obesity committee of the council on nutrition physical activity and metabolism circulation vol.

genco s. offenbacher and j. beck periodontal disease and cardiovascular disease epidemiology and possible mecha- nisms the journal of the american dental association vol.

afterreads in chd patients andreads in controls was obtained.reads corresponding to 38 phyla 90 classes and 584 genera were detected in chd patients whereas 40 phyla 99 classes and775 genera were detected in controls.

d chd patients c healthy controls.table 3 analysis of diversity index between chd patients and healthy people.indexchd groupcontrol grouphigher than that of the controls.

figure the class bacteroidia belonging to phylum bacteroidetes was significantly decreased in the chd patient group compared with the control group 56.18 versus figure b. the class clostridia with the highest abundance of reads in the phylum firmicutes accounted for 34.98 of the total reads in chd patients and was higher than that in the controls 30.60 figure unifrac and bray-curtis distance matrices of the 16s rrnathroughput sequencing the present study demonstrated that diversity and the gut microbial composition were differentbetween chd patients and healthy controls.diversity is important to maintain ecosystem stability and performance.

unweighted unifrac separates the chd patients blue and control microbiota red.were increased in chd patients compared with the con- trols.

we aimed to explore the impact of gut microbiota in coronary heart disease chd patients through high-throughput sequencing.

figure a. the phylum firmicutes had the second highest abundance of reads accounting for 37.06 of total reads in chd patients and was higher than that in controlsdiscussionchd is a complex multifactorial disease influenced by numerous genetic and environmental factors.

have found a parallel reduction in proteobacteria level in cardiovascular diseases patients in comparison withmay first cause periodontal disease which further triggers chd.

sekirov s. l. russell l. caetanom antunes and b. b. finlay gut microbiota in health and disease physiological reviews vol.

