the complexity of ad pathogenesis and the possibility of clo- nal diversity among s. aureus could be one explanation of why the connection between gut flora and eczema development has not been fully established.staphylococcus aureus is often found on the skin in ad mostlyon inflamed skin11 and flares of ad are associated with s. au- reus sags.4 in this issue of the bjd nowrouzian et al.12 report on their observational study in which they looked more clo- sely at commensal s. aureus strains in the gut microbiome dur- ing the first 18-month postpartum period along with concomitantly registered development of ad and allergy signs.

authors of the current study have previously suggested that commensal s. aureus in the gut microflora carrying combina- tions of sags stimulate and educate the immune system and thus modify the development of ad.13 in the current study12 there was found to be a negative correlation between ad development and the occurrence of certain adhesins and sags supporting the idea that the composition of the gut micro- biome perhaps specific s. aureus strains in early childhood has an impact on ad and allergy development.

expanding the use of the cdasi to nondermatologists will undoubtedly increase the number of rigorously designed studies that include a focus on skin outcomes and will thereby serve to enhance the data available to guide treatment of the frequently refractory cutaneous manifestations of dm.conflicts of interestnone declared.atopic dermatitis and gut microbiotadoi 10.1111bjd.15276during the past decades we have learnt that the interplay between the environmental microflora and the immune sys- tem is essential for educating the immune system and thus for our survival.12 this interplay takes place at the barriers of the body skin lung and gut.

it has been described that a lower diversity of the gut flora or an imbalance in the composition of the gut microbiome are associated with development of allergy.3 in a similar way it has been shown that a greater diversity of skin commensals improves the function of the immune system while a decreased diversity is associated with1division of dermatology university ofarizona tucson az u.s.a.2department of dermatology brigham and women's hospital harvard medical school boston ma u.s.a.e-mail httpsorcid.org0000-0002-9192-4465d.j.b.

flare-ups of atopic dermatitis ad when colo- nized with superantigen sag-producing staphylococcus aureus.4 although much interest has focused on the connection between the gut microbiome and the development of allergy we still today do not understand the relationship.establishment of the microbiome of the gut mucous mem- branes and skin starts immediately following birth or even298 commentariesbefore5 and the mode of birth either vaginal or by caesarean section affects the newborn's initial microbiota.

allergol immu- nopathol madr 2016 44177-88.marrs t flohr c. the role of skin and gut microbiota in the development of atopic eczema.

superantigens and adhesins of infant gut commensal staphylococcus aureus strains and association with subsequent development of atopic eczema.

the results open the door for more mechanistic study designs as there is a rapid development of techniques for identifying and classify- ing microbes.conflicts of interestnone declared.bjoeurrksten b. disease outcomes as a consequence of environmentalinfluences on the development of the immune system.

melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer remain significant health and economic cost burdens in many countries.12 how- ever skin cancer incidence is now decreasing in younger age

the intrarater reliability for cdasi activity was excellent for all physicians indicating reproducibility when used by an individual exam- iner while intrarater reliability of damage scores was excellent only for dermatologists and rheumatologists.

the results from this study6 extend the use of this instrument to nondermatologists and represent a meaningful step towards ensuring the inclusion of skin disease outcomes with respect to treatment response in all future dm-centred investigations whether led by dermatol- ogists or not.

this and other similar efforts7 provide a platform for the systematic evaluation of novel and repurposed therapies for rare autoimmune and inflammatory diseases that involve the skin.

j allergy clin immunol 2008 121129-34.a criteria-validated sun-exposure questionnaire to evaluate skin cancer prevention campaignsdoi 10.1111bjd.15135 linked article .

when used by dermatologists the cdasi provides valid and reliable measures of cutaneous disease activity and damage that are sensitive to change over time making it a suitable instrument for longitudinally moni- toring cutaneous disease in individuals with dm.2-5in this issue of the bjd tiao et al.6 assessed the reliability of the cdasi when used by dermatologists rheumatologists and neurologists the latter two groups representing specialists who also routinely care for patients with dm and participate in dm clinical trials.

the inter-rater reliability of cdasi activity between dermatologists and rheumatologists was good indicating that the two physician groups scored dm cutaneous activity similarly.

