We noted striking differences in the composition of the bile acid pool across the four experimental groups which is interesting given that differences in bile acid composition can alter secretion of intestinal hormones including Glp1 most likely mediated through differences in indi- vidual bile acid affinity for Fxr and Tgr5 .

20175143.Sepe V Renga B Festa C D'Amore C Masullo D Cipriani S Di Leva FS Monti MC Novellino E Limongelli V Zampella A Fiorucci S. Modification on ursodeoxycholic acid UDCA scaffold discovery of bile acid derivatives as selective agonists of cell-surface G-protein coupled bile acid receptor 1 GP-BAR1.

Plasma levels of bile acid species were measured in 3-week-old mice by high-performance LC tandem MS and quantified using deuterium-labeled standards Total plasma bile acid levels were measured in 11-week-old mice using a col- orimetric kit Diazyme Laboratories Inc. Poway CA No.

We concluded that effects of UDCA on insulin sensitivity were independent of adipokines.Effects of UDCA treatment on bile acid pools and metabolismBile acid modulation of gluconeogenic responsesand insulin sensitivity suggests a robust effect on he- patic metabolism.

6c and 6d.Cyp7a1 the rate-limiting enzyme for bile acid syn-thesis was reduced by UDCA in both the C and UN groups PANOVA  0.0004 3f whereas ex- pression of Cyp7b1 an enzyme involved in alternative pathway bile acid synthesis was significantly increased in C  UDCA but not in UN  UDCA PANOVA  0.004Pinteraction  0.02.

Together these data demonstrate that expression of messenger RNAs encoding key regulators of bile acid metabolism and responsiveness is differentially induced by UDCA depending on prenatal nutritional status.Effects of prenatal undernutrition and UDCA supplementation on microbiota configurationGiven that the gut microbiota can influence bile acid metabolism weight gain and insulin resistance we ex- amined effects of UDCA treatment on microbiota con- figuration in both C and UN offspring.

We did however note a significant increase in expression of Shp a nuclear receptor co- repressor known to repress bile acid and cholesterol metabolism  in UDCA-treated UN but not control mice raising the possibility that differences in Shp- mediated repression of bile acid signaling might un- derpin the diminished responsiveness to UDCA in UN mice.

Regardless of prenatal nutritional group UDCA supplementation resulted in down- regulation of Cyp7a1 the rate-limiting enzyme in bile acid synthesis consistent with previous reports By contrast we found that hepatic expression of other en- zymes involved in bile acid synthesis e.g.

Levels of 6- or 7-hydroxysteroid or oxysterol intermediates will need to be measured to confirm that increased expression of Cyp7b1 is accompanied by demonstrable increases inenzymatic activity.Given the key role of the gut microbiota in bile acid metabolism and thus bile acid signaling 51 we examined temporal changes in gut microbiota compo- sition in response to prenatal undernutrition and post- natal UDCA treatment.

First UDCA has minimal affinity for the bile acid re- ceptors FXR and TGR5 so we cannot assess whether the resistance to metabolic improvements that we noted in prenatally undernourished mice is related to bile acid signaling through these pathways.

