oat contains two unique steroid glycosides avenacoside-b ave-b and ave-a which are the primary components in oats 22-25. our recent study revealed that ave-b and -a present high concentrations in oat bran ob products with total content of ave-b and -a vary from 304 to 443.0 mgkg 26. however no studies have explored di- rectly to the bioavailability and biotransformation of oat aves which are essential for determining whether they can be used as the exposure biomarkers for wg oat intake.

this study investigates the potential of oat unique components avenacoside-b ave-b and -a ave-a as exposure biomarkers of oat intake.methods and results an in vivo study performed in mice and an in vitro batch fecal fermen- tation study were used to investigate the potential metabolic routes of ave-b and -a. twelve healthy volunteers were recruited in the human urinary pharmacokinetic study each partici- pant received a single dose of oat bran as breakfast 48 h urine samples were collected at baseline and after treatment period and ave-b and -a were quantified by lc-msms.

2 and 3 in colour.rye intake no exposure biomarkers were developed for wg oat intake.daily consumption of wg oat avena sativa l. has been shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease obesity and diabetes and improve lipid profiles and liver functions 12-16. similar with other cereals beyond the fibers oat contains diverse phytochemicals including avenanthramides 17 steroidal saponins 18 phenolic acids 19 20 tocols 21 and flavonoids 18. whether phytochemicals in oat can be used as exposure biomarkers to reflect oat intake is still largely unknown.

conclusion oat ave-b and -a have great potential to be used as specific exposure biomarkers to reflect oat intake.keywordsavenacosides  exposure biomarkers  gut microbiota  metabolism  oat intakeadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived february 23 2017revised april 10 2017accepted april 24 2017introductionepidemiologic studies have emphasized that increased con- sumption of whole grain wg food is associated with reduced risk of several chronic diseases such as cardiovascular dis- ease certain types of cancer and type 2 diabetes 1-4. one of the major problems in nutritional epidemiologic studies of wg consumption is the lack of tools to estimate the intake of various food constituents accurately and objectively 5 6. traditional self-assessment approaches especially using thefull correspondence shengmin sang laboratory for functional foods and human health center for excellence in post-harvest technologies north carolina agricultural and technical state university north carolina research campus suite 4222 unc nutrition research building 500 laureate way kannapolis nc 28081 usae-mail ssangncat.edu food frequency questionnaires are challenging and remain one of the key weaknesses of this type of research 6. to- ward a better understanding of the health beneficial effects of various wgs biomarkers for their exposure and biological effects are needed 7 8.ideally a specific exposure biomarker should be unique to a particular cereal or group of cereals.

the mean total urinary recovery of ave-b and -a was 2.52 and 2.26 respectively calculated from the ingested aves.discussionthe aim of this study was to investigate the metabolism of oat aves in mice and humans and by the human gut mi- crobiota and to determine the urinary pharmacokinetics of oat aves to explore their potential as exposure biomarkers of wg oat intake.

in the healthy status they con- tribute nutrients and energy to the host via the fermentation of indigestible dietary components in the large intestine and a balance is maintained with the host's energy metabolism and immune system 29. oat ave-b and -a consist of nuati- genin as a furospirostanol backbone on which glc and rha are attached while intestinal bacteria have shown diverse degly- cosylating activities thus we speculated that deglycosylation metabolites could be the major metabolites of oat aves in in vitro fecal batch incubation models and this speculation was confirmed in this study as shown in fig.

in the case of oat intake it is possible to use the combination of these two aves with avenanthramides as well as other unique oat phytochemicals as the exposure biomarkers to reflect oat in- take.

research articleavenacosides metabolism and potential use as exposure biomarkers of oat intakepei wang junli yang aaron yerke and shengmin sanglaboratory for functional foods and human health center for excellence in post-harvest technologies north carolina agricultural and technical state university north carolina research campus kannapolis nc usascope exposure biomarkers used for objective estimation of whole-grain wg intake are essential for epidemiologic studies of wg consumption however up to now no exposure biomarkers were developed for wg oat intake.

deglycosylation metabolic route was identified as the major metabolic path for ave-b and -a. urinary ave-b and -a concentrations increased rapidly after oat ingestion reached their maximum excre- tion rates ermax fairly simultaneously within 5 h then decreased gradually.

ave-c -b and -a with purity 95 were isolated from ob in our lab 26. ave-b and -a were dissolved in dmso and ad- ministered to mice by oral gavage 200 mgkg respectively.

the lods were 0.015 and0.003 nm for ave-b and -a respectively and the loqs were0.20 and 0.05 nm for ave-b and -a respectively.

2 however only trace amount of their metabolites was detected in some of the urine samples collected at specific time intervals data not shown.figure 2. extracted ion chro- matograms of ave-b a and ave-a b in human urine sam- ples collected from one of the 12 subjects after a single intake of ob breakfast.figure 3. ms2 and ms3 negative spectra of authentic ave-b.mass spectral properties of oat avesthree reference ave standards ave-c -b and -a were an- alyzed by lc-ms in this work.

the fragmentation patterns of aves determined here were further confirmed by using authentic ave-c and -a data not shown which would be useful for identification of oat aves and their metabolites.structure elucidation of metabolites m1 and m2metabolites at retention times of 28.4 and 28.7 min were iden- tified as ave-a m1 and ave-c m2 from ave-b treatedmouse urine and fecal samples by comparing their mass spectra fig.

to test this hypothesis stool sam- ples collected from the 12 healthy volunteers were processed into fecal slurries and pooled together which was then used for the in vitro batch fecal fermentation study of oat ave-b and -a. both ave-b and -a were progressively degraded over 24 h after incubating with pooled human gut microbiota m1-m5 which were determined as the metabolites of ave-b in ave-b treated mice were identified as the metabolitesof ave-b by human gut microbiota by comparing their retention times and tandem mass data.

samples were incubated at 37degc under anaerobic conditions and harvested at 0 2 4 8 and 24 h time points.0.120.090.060.03table 1. pharmacokinetic parameters of ave-b and -a in human urine samples after a single intake of ob containing 11 mg of ave-b and 27 mg of ave-aapk parametersave-bave-a ermax umolh0.03 - 0.020.10 - 0.05tmax h4.17 - 1.344.33 - 1.16t12 h6.22 - 2.104.55 - 1.54auc0-t umolh0.23 - 0.120.57 - 0.32auc0-oo umolh0.24 - 0.130.58 - 0.330.000510152025recovery percentage of auc0-toral dose2.52 - 1.302.26 - 1.28time hfigure 7. urinary pharmacokinetics of ave-b and -a in human urine after a single intake of ob containing 11 mg of ave-b and 27 mg of ave-a.

