Novel treatments could try to first elim- inate the protective outer layer and then target the metabolic cross-feeding of the inner layer to disrupt the overall biofilm structure by targeting specific metabolic pathways particular to the corresponding phenotypes.Integrated multi-species model of a human gut communityWe used BacArena to model the multi-species community of the human gut .

All simulations were performed using pFBA to generate the flux distribu- tions of each individual.Integrated multi-species model of the human gutA model for the human gut was assembled using seven recently reconstructed genome-scale metabolic models of human gut bacteria .

In this study we combine both techniques into the R package BacArena   to generate novel biological insights into Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilm formation as well as a seven species model community of the human gut.

For our P. aeruginosa model we found that cross-feeding of fermentation products cause a spatial dif- ferentiation of emerging metabolic phenotypes in the biofilm over time.

In the human gut model community we found that spatial gradients of mucus glycans are important for niche formations which shape the overall community structure.

To model metabolic interactions within microbial communities different COBRA-based approaches have been developed .

First approaches modeled bacterial communities by combining the reconstructions of single microbes into a metabolic model where metabolites can be exchanged and community growth is maximized using FBA  .

Accordingly complex dynamics arise as emergent properties of locally interacting individuals -.In this study we develop and apply BacArena a community modeling tool which extends the integration of FBA and individual based modeling proposed by MatNet to model multi- species communities.

Essentially we model populations as aggregations of heterogeneous indi- viduals that have their own metabolism and interact spatially as well as temporarily according to biologically relevant rules e.g.

In particular we applied BacArena to model Pseudo- monas aeruginosa biofilm formation on the level of metabolic phenotypes.

