2006.certain plant root-associated bacteria show beneficial effects on plant growth and are thus defined as plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria pgpr kloepper et al.

also p. fluorescens might inhibit the growth of other pathogenic soil microbes by scavenging iron or producing phenazine-type antibiotics or hydrogen cyanide compounds which are antagonistic to other soil microbes haas and defago 2005.improvement of plant growth conditionspgpr promote plant growth promotion.

in conclusion our results indicated that l-s60 treatment improved the availability of essential minerals including nitrogen phosphorus and potassium during the seedling process.table 2  a list of the top 50 abundant genera in l-s60 treatment group and the control group.taxonl-s60 groupcontrol groupp-valuediscussionbacillus species are well-studied plant growth promoting rhizosphere bacteria likely or primarily due to their capacitiesto produce antibiotics or plant hormones and to form biofilms on the root surface of the plants idris et al.

production of the root exudates changes dramatically during the growth of the plant in that much higher amounts of exudates are released into the rhizosphere often at the initial growth phase baudoin et al.

2015.the roles of rhizosphere microbial communities in plant growth and health have been studied by various types of methods including both culture-dependent and independent approaches kaiser et al.

pgpr has now been increasingly applied in vegetable seedling factories and demonstrated great efficacy in plant growth promotion and disease prevention dobbelaere et al.

2008. although studies about the impacts of the pgpr on the rhizosphere microbial communities and the plant growth have been performed using different methods ali et al.

potassium availability impacts the growth and development of plant meena et al.

strain rmb7 exhibiting plant growth promoting and broad spectrum antifungal andreote f. d. carneiro r. t. salles j. f. marcon j. labate c. a. azevedo j. l. et al.

presumably the higher presence of agrobacterium will lead to more available potassium in the seedling substrate which was we have observed in our study when we measured the potassium availability upon l-s60 treatment figure 7.phosphorus is another kind of major essential macronutrients for plant growth and development rodriguez and fraga 1999. but the concentration of phosphorus in soil that is bioavailable to plant is extremely low.

the findings in this study provided evidence for the beneficial effects of plant growth-promoting rhizosphere bacteria on the bacterial community composition and growth conditions of the vegetables during plug seedling.keywords next-generation sequencing b. amyloliquefaciens l-s60 bacterial community cucumber plug seedling growth conditionintroductioncucumber cucumis sativus l. is one of the major vegetables grown in china.

the maximum increases in seedling shoot height stem diameter leaf area and fresh weight during the entire plug process were 106.3 at day 20 21.1 at day 25 101.4 at day 20 and 71.0 at day 25 respectively figure 2. our data indicated that l-s60showed strong growth promoting activities on the cucumber seedlings.l-s60 application did not alter the overall diversity of the rhizosphere microbial communitythe rhizosphere micrbiota is known to greatly influence plant growth and health.

284 204-212. doi idris e. e. iglesias d. j. talon m. and borriss r. 2007. tryptophan- dependent production of indole-3-acetic acid iaa affects level of plant growth promotion by bacillus amyloliquefaciens fzb42.

16 546-558. doi rodriguez h. and fraga r. 1999. phosphate solubilizing bacteria and their role in plant growth promotion.

73 5261-5267. doi zahir z. a. arshad m. and frankenberger w. t. 2004. plant growth promoting rhizobacteria applications and perspectives in agriculture.

