articleopenbacillus subtilis utilizes the dna damage response to manage multicellular developmentkevin gozzi1 carly ching1 srinand paruthiyil1 yinjuan zhao12 veronica godoy-carter1 and yunrong chai1introductionbiofilms are bacterial multicellular communities ubiquitously present in nature and are a primary cause of hospital- acquired infections.the gram-positive soil-dwelling bacterium bacillus subtilis is a model system for biofilm studies.examples of biofilms in b. subtilis are floating pellicles at the air-liquid interface in liquid cultures structurally complex colonies on solid surfaces and plant root-associated biofilms in the rhizosphere.-biofilm formation is a multicellular developmental life cycle in which genetically identical bacterial cells differentiate and adopt phenotypically distinct cell types likely to increase the fitness of the entire community.

this strategy might be evolutionarily advantageous for b. subtilis which usually establishes symbiotic mutualism with its plant host.thus this mechanism may allow b. subtilis to evaluate the safety of the environment such as a plant root host.this finding in b. subtilis may seem counter intuitive since biofilm formation has been shown to be a defense mechanism to protect bacteria from environmental stresses.-however upon severe dna damage bacteria may have to make a fight or flight decision either enforce the biofilm for protection or degrade the biofilm in order to escape.

in b. subtilis the matrix consists of exopolysaccharides protein fibers tapa and tasa and a hydrophobin bsla.signals for induction of b. subtilis biofilm assembly derive from either the environment such as plant- released polysaccharides and surfactin-like molecules  or from cellular metabolic activities such as serine starvation or acetate.

in conclusion our results suggest that strong ros accumulation is associated with induction of the ddr in a subpopulation of cells in the b. subtilis biofilm.to determine whether ros accumulation influences biofilm development in b. subtilis we tested the effect of hydrogen peroxide h2o2 and the ros-generating chemical pyocyanin pcn on biofilm robustness.

antibiotics if needed were applied at the following concentrations 10 mg ml-1 of tetracycline 1 mg ml-1 of erythromycin 100 mg ml-1 of spectinomycin 20 mg ml-1 of kanamycin and 5 mg ml-1 of chloramphenicol for transductions and transformation in b. subtilis and 100 mg ml-1 of ampicillin for e. coli dh5a transformations.strain constructionthe insertional sdaerm and lexaerm deletion mutants bke25690 and bke17850 respectively were purchased from the bacillus genetic stock center bgsc  and introduced into ncib 3610 via spp1 phage-mediated transduction to generate ycn025 and ycn020dna damage inhibits b. subtilis biofilm formation k gozzi et al5respectively.

the purified pcr product was cloned into the ecori and hindiii restriction sites of a plasmid pyc121 which bears a promoter-less gfp gene gfp-mut2 flanked by the amye sequences.the resulting plasmid was cloned into and then purified from e. coli dh5a and introduced by transformation into the b. subtilis laboratory strain py79 using a standard b. subtilis transformation protocol.

here we are interested in understanding the influence of both endogenous and exogenous ros on bacillus subtilis biofilm development.

in b. subtilis oxidative dna damage leads to formation of single-stranded dna which is bound by reca the multi-function recombinase to form reca-nucleoprotein fila- ments whose co-protease activity promotes auto-proteolysis of lexa the ddr master repressor.thus dna damage leads to induction of lexa repressed genes such as ynea which encodes a protein antagonist to the cell-division protein ftsz causing elongated cells with arrested cell division.

subtilis.

c. furthermore when we simultaneously probed ros1department of biology northeastern university boston ma 02115 usa and 2college of forestry resources and environment nanjing forestry university nanjing 210037 chinacorrespondence yunrong chai received 10 august 2016 revised 20 january 2017 accepted 30 january 2017dna damage inhibits b. subtilis biofilm formationk gozzi et al2fig.

1 ros accumulation triggers the dna damage response ddr in a subpopulation of cells in a b. subtilis biofilm.

b. subtilis ncib 3610 cells collected from 0 24 and 48 h biofilm pellicles were treated with a superoxide-specific dye and observed under fluorescent microscopy.

b. subtilis ycn036 cells containing the pynea-gfp ddr reporter were collected from 24 48 and 72 h pellicle biofilms and observed under fluorescent microscopy green cells.

e ros negatively impacts b. subtilis biofilm development.

in the top panels the b. subtilis 3610 biofilm pellicles treated with catalase 1 mg ml-1 was more robust than the one without treatment.

