to prevent superfluous energy expenditure chemical signaling guides ehec through thebiogeography of the gi tract 28. virulence may exploit available signals and metabolitesmany adaptive conditions are employed to prone the pathogens against their competitors.the role of other metabolites in bacterial pathogenesisethanolamine ea is an abundant nitrogen and carbon source in the intestine and alsoserves as a signal for pathogenic bacteria such as ehec and s. typhimurium to activatevirulence gene expression 120 121. the resident microbiota does not metabolize eaefficiently however ehec and s. typhimurium both utilize ea as an important nitrogen sourceto promote their expansion in the gut and as a signal to control virulence gene expression.19several ehec virulence genes are induced by ea via the expression of the eutr factor an eareceptor.

qsec also may activate the responseregulator qsef which stimulates expression of shiga toxin genes production but it is able torepress the expression of fuskr.the cognate sensor fusk is activated by fucose andphosphorylates fusr to inhibit lee expression 28 98 105 129. the regulation of operon eutis also implicated eut encodes for eutr transcription factor which recognizes the presence ofethanolamine ea and vitamin b12 to modulate virulence gene expression.

2. the kdpde system is regulated by potassium concentration while the rrkdpe is phosphorylated by the histidine kinase kdpd 107. qsec phosphorylates both kdpeand qsef activating lee and shiga toxin expression 105.the qsee sensor kinase senses epine sulfate and phosphate 62. qsee onlyphosphorylates its cognate rr qsef 98 108. qsef affects the expression of shiga toxin 67and the small rna glmy 109 110 that works in concert with glmz to post-transcriptionallyregulate lee and espfu an effector necessary for ae lesion formation expression in ehec330109 110.ehec and c. rodentium share the qsebc and qseef systems that sense epi and neand have similar regulation of their virulence genes 95. both adrenergic hormones activatevirulence in c. rodentium via the qsec and qsee sensors.

bacterial acid resistance systems allow them to survive severalhours at low ph ranging between 2.0-6.0 during the passage through the human stomach 22.high tolerance to bile is another critical characteristic for gi bacteria as the bile in the smallintestine is detrimental to bacterial survival 23. bacteria employ multiple systems to be able tosurvive including efflux pump systems that secrete toxic compounds in parallel theseorganisms may also trigger changes in bacterial membrane permeability to avoid the excess ofsome ions.

829mol microbiol 801516-1529.830 129. njoroge j sperandio v. 2012. enterohemorrhagic escherichia coli virulence regulation831by two bacterial adrenergic kinases qsec and qsee.

ehec uses breakdown products from commensal bacteria such as mucin-derived sugars togain a competitive advantage during intestinal colonization 115. sugar availability influencesthe microbiota composition and the expansion of bacterial pathogens 114. expression of thelee in ehec is inhibited during glycolytic metabolism 116. conversely ehec growth withina gluconeogenic environment activates expression of the lee genes 116. this sugar-dependentregulation is achieved through two transcription factors kdpe and cra 116. the glucoseconcentration in the environment triggers kdpe phosphorylation by the kdpd histidine sensorkinase.

cra also known as frur uses sugar fluctuations to activate or inhibit expression of itstarget genes 116 117. in addition to regulating expression of the lee cra and kdpe alsoregulate catabolic and osmotic stress 116 117. these regulatory mechanisms provide a finetuning to the bacterial cells to adapt themselves to environmental fluctuations related to different18concentrations of carbon sources available and change their basic metabolism as well asvirulence expression.fucose is an abundant carbohydrate in the gut ehec employs the fuskr system toexploit fucose as a signal and compete against commensal e. coli for intestinal colonization.bacteroides thetaiotaomicron an abundant member of the microbiota is able to grow in mucinand produces multiple fucosidases that harvest fucose from the mucus increasing fucoseavailability in the intestinal lumen.

enteric foodborne pathogenssuch as enterohemorrhagic escherichia coli ehec and salmonella enterica serovartyphimurium or the surrogate murine infection model for ehec citrobacter rodentium are allexamples of microorganisms that modulate expression of their virulence repertoire in response tosignals from the microbiota or the host such as autoinducer-3 ai-3 epinephrine epi andnorepinephrine ne.the qsebc and qseef two-component systems shared by thesepathogens are involved in sensing these signals.

we review how these signaling systems senseand relay these signals to drive bacterial gene expression specifically to modulate virulence.

d-serine can act aseither a carbon source or to modulate a set of stress-dependent genes in e. coli differentpathotypes and consequently modulate gene expression of unique virulence factors 87.13other bacterial interactions may be very important during ehec pathogenesis.

the qsec qsee and qseec mutantsare attenuated during murine infections 95. qsec and qsee also sense epi and ne in theintestine of mice as shown in infectious studies with dopamine-hydroxylase dbh-- knockoutmice unable to produce epi and ne 95.16qsec and qsee also regulate virulence expression and pathogenesis of s. typhimuriumin swine and mice 92-94. qsec regulates flagella motility and expression of the sifa gene94.

wealso review how bacteria chat via chemical signals integrated with metabolite recognition andutilization to promote successful associations among enteric pathogens the microbiota and thehost.keywords chemical signaling enterobacteriaceae escherichia salmonella intestinalmetabolites.383commensals and pathogens in the gutthe large and diverse bacterial community in the human gut also plays importantfunctions in the physiology of the intestine.

these metabolites are an important energy source that aid host cell differentiation andnutrient absorption by the colonic epithelium 3 18 20.mice fed with acetylated starch have increased bacterial acetate levels in the fecesleading protection against an initial ehec colonization 21. moreover ehec co-infected micewith bifidobacterium longum that have a subset of carbohydrate transporters can produceenough acetate via bacterial sugar metabolism to promote host defenses against entericpathogens 21 details are going to be further discussed during this review in the metabolitesinfluencing ehec pathogenesis section.the challenge of gi tract colonizationenteric bacteria face many challenges in colonizing the gi tract.

2 15 19. bacterial entericcommunity is a complex system and suffers constant exposure to threats such as potentialpathogens.enterics maintain a successful homeostatic community but the resident microbiota maybe manipulated by bacterial pathogens such as ehec.

ais act ashormone-like molecules 89.the ai-3-epinpehrinenorepinephrine inter-kingdom signaling systemamong these qs signaling systems the bacterial ai-3 molecule has been shown to bepresent in different bacterial species 90 and has a key role in inter-kingdom signaling.

