's findings underscore the potential unforeseen consequences of using antibiotics in livestock production and call into question our current methods for classifying whether or not a veterinary drug has relevance to human health.KEYWORDS agriculture antibiotic antibiotic resistance antimicrobial carbadox health policy hog livestock mobile elements pig stewardship swinentibiotic resistance has finally captured the attention of the public and policymak- ers around the world.

Paradoxically and relevant to the question of whether carbadox should be considered medically impor- tant some of the transferred genes coded for resistance to antibiotic classes that are commonly used in human medicine including tetracyclines aminoglycosides and beta-lactams.

These two drugs ceftiofur and enrofloxacin are never used in human medicine but bacteria that evolve resistance to these drugs are also resistant to their human medicine analogs ceftriaxone and ciprofloxacin respectively.

These reports have been accompanied by heated policy debates where stakeholders have sought to define antibiotic applications into categories such as necessary versus unnecessary or therapeutic versus nontherapeutic and have tried to categorize antibiotics by their relative importance to human medicine .

That began to change with a number of high-profile reports that described the emerging antibiotic resistance crisis in terms that the general public could understand and highlighted the potential risks of using antibiotics in food animals  .

Using carbadox in swine production may help prevent some bacterial infections but it may also lead to the emergence of bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics used in human medicine.medically important.

COMMENTARYBacterial Whack-a-Mole Reconsidering the Public Health Relevance of Using Carbadox in Food AnimalsMilken Institute School of Public Health George Washington University Washington DC and Division of Pathogen Genomics Translational Genomics Research Institute Flagstaff Arizona USAABSTRACT Carbadox is an antibiotic used to control dysentery and promote growth in swine in the United States however the drug also causes tumors and birth defects in laboratory animals.

Beyond these shared analogs there are those that belong to antibiotic classes that are used exclusively in food animals including iono- phores and the quinoxaline-di-N-oxide carbadox.

Despite this and because the drug has no analogs in human medicine it is not considered medically important and can be used in livestock without veterinarian oversight.

To their credit some companies have released policies that specifically limit the use of antimicrobials belonging to the same classes that are used in human medicine.

