The natural microbiota that characterizes this popular Colombian fermented milk is unknown although several culturing studies have previously been attempted.

The bacterial ecosystem of SC samples wasrevealed to be composed of lactic acid bacteria belonging to the Streptococcaceae and Lactobacillaceae families the proportions and genera varying among manufacturers and region of elaboration.

The high environmental humidity greater than 74 together with the high microbial load in raw milk as well as the inoculation from the containers and the surrounding air favours this natural fermenta- tion.

The final product is an acidic soured and salty fermented-milk with a creamy consis- tency o.Until now very little information has been available about the microbiota inhabiting this particular Colombian fermented dairy0740-0020c 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.130K.E.

The pH of the milk before and after fermentation was measured and the time taken for fermentation 12 h for P1 24 h for P2 and 16 h for P3 was considered when the isoelectric point of the caseins was reached around pH 4.6 causing the coagulation of the milk.

USA after incubation at 37 oC for 48 h. The most probable number MPN of total coliforms and Escherichia coli was also evaluated in Fluorocult LMX broth Merck using 3 tubes of media for three different dilutions of each sample of study.

The MPN was determined using the corresponding table .Finally a portion 10 - 0.5 g of the fermented SC samples ob- tained from the three manufacturers 2 batches each was lyophi- lised in a Labconcor Kansas City MO.

The grown cultures were preserved at 80 oC in each specific medium with 20 glycerol and lyophilised in skimmed milk reconstituted at 11 and sent to IPLA-CSIC in Spain.In order to obtain DNA for bacterial identification the isolates were cultured in liquid media MRS or M17L and 1 mL of each overnight culture was processed using the GenElutetm Bacterial Genomic DNA Kit Sigma-Aldrich Sigma Chemical Co. St. Louis MO.

The pH of the samples after fermentation ranged from 3.8 from P1 to 4.4 from P2.

The overall bacterial load of the final products was significantly lower in SC samples from P1 from the Caucasia region.

