pyrosequencing of bacterial com- munities associated with pinus muricata roots has also provided some evidence that bacterial communities in the roots were affected by fungal species identity nguyen and bruns 2015. however many other studies have failed to demonstrate any significant effect of the ectomycorrhizal fungi colonizing plant roots on the bacterial communities associated with them izumi et al.

significance levels of planned pairwise comparisons of bacterial abundance associated with roots colonized by piloderma sphaerosporum with and without n addition as urea are shown in red.kruskal-wallis p  0.001 p  0.01 p  0.05.bacterial microbiomes of ectomycorrhizal pinus sylvestris roots 4743bacterial microbiomes of roots colonized by s. variegatussuillus variegatus colonized roots in soils from all three soil horizons and nmds ordination was used to visualize bacterial community structure associated with these roots supporting information fig.

between 1748 and 2388 clusters were distinguished per treatment representing 54-64 of the expected species richness suggesting that more sampling was necessary to achieve saturation table 1. species richness rarefaction curve and bacterial diversity chao1 index showed that in the b horizon bacterial otus were significantly p  0.05 reduced from 2388 to 1748 otus following n application table 1. in the o horizon bacterial diversity was increased by n addition but there was no statistically significant effect of n on the diversity associ- ated with roots in the e horizon table 1.bacterial microbiomes of ectomycorrhizal roots growing in o e and b horizon soilspinus sylvestris roots colonized by different ectomycorrhi- zal fungi in the o e and b horizon soils harboured statistically distinct anosim p 5 0.0001 bacterial com- munities irrespective of n addition supporting information fig.

this could be due to qualitative or quantitative changes in the pattern of carbon supply to mycorrhizal roots growing in this horizon.the bacterial communities associated with roots colo-nized by many individual fungi were not significantly different following n addition in the o and e horizons how- ever bacterial communities associated with roots colonized by p. sphaerosporum were significantly altered fig.

comparison of the bacterial com- munities associated with roots colonized by the other four fungi following n addition however revealed that neither the difference between m. bicolor and m. variabilis nor the difference between p. fallax and p. sphaerosporum was sta- tistically significant data not shown.the addition of n had no statistically significant effect on the composition of bacterial communities associated withroots colonized by p. fallax however there was a highly significant anosim p 5 0.0004 effect of n addition on the composition of bacterial communities associated with roots colonized by p. sphaerosporum fig.

2013. in the present study we distinguished separate effects of soil from different horizons and of different ectomycorrhizal fungi on the bacterial microbiomes associated with p. syl- vestris roots since clear differences between roots colonized by different fungi were present within the same soil horizon in unfertilized systems table 2.collection of the soil took place 3-4 weeks before the microcosms were set up and this disturbance coupled with subsequent homogenization may have resulted in mineralization of the easily available organic matter fractionpumpanen et al.

distribution of ectomycorrhizal roots collected from o e and b microcosms with or without n additions and used for fungal and bacterial microbiome analyses is described in supporting information table s4.dna extraction and pcr amplificationdna extraction and bacterial pcr amplification were per- formed according to the methods described by marupakula et al.

bacteria in the genera acidi- capsa dyella and rhodanobacter were significantly more abundant in roots growing in soil from the o horizon than in roots growing in soil from the e and b horizons whereas flavisolibacter and bradyrhizobium appeared to be more abundant in roots growing in soil from both mineral hori- zons and steroidobacter was significantly more abundant in roots growing in soil from the b horizon.

when n was added to the mycorrhizal systems the statistically signifi- cant differences between communities associated with roots colonized by different fungi largely disappeared how- ever the bacterial communities associated with roots colonized by p. sphaerosporum were statistically distinct from those associated with roots colonized by s. variega- tus and m. bicolor table 2.fig.

since roots and fungi can supply plant-derived c directly either as exudates or via mycorrhizal or saprotrophic fungi to the soil ecosystem fungal mycelia and roots are important niches for bacterial colonization and appropriate sites in which to sample bacterial communities in relation to environmental changes.

3a.anosim analysis revealed that the bacterial communities were statistically distinct from each other both in the pres- ence p 5 0.0389 and absence p 5 0.0001 of n addition although the statistical separation was much stronger in the absence of added n. bonferroni-corrected pairwise comparisons npmanova of the bacterial com- munities associated with root tips colonized by the different ectomycorrhizal fungi table 2 suggest that the community composition was distinct in all cases in the absence of added n except for bacteria associated with roots colo- nized by m. bicolor which were not statistically distinct from those associated with roots colonized by s. variegatusp.

2017 using qpcr and illumi- navr miseq high-throughput sequencing have shown that bacterial communities of mycosphere soils differed from soils uncolonized by mycorrhizal mycelia and that bacterial communities of ericoid roots were more similar to each other than to those of pine roots.

4. in the absence of n addition 76 2533 of bacterial genera showed significant variation in abundance with respect to the dominant ectomycorrhizal fungus colonizing the roots whereas the effect of different fungi on bacterial abundance was only significant in 27 933 of the bacterial genera following n addition fig.

2011. changed c allocation may influence bacteria associated with individual mycorrhizal roots but the effects of different4738 s. marupakula et al.n regimes on bacterial colonization of individual ectomy- corrhizal roots have so far not been investigated since effects of n fertilizationdeposition are usually evaluated in soil.

these authors were able to show strongly significant effects of different ectomycorrhizal fungi on bacterial com- munities associated with root tips in the organic horizon but no roots growing in the mineral soil horizons were investigated.previous studies of mycorrhiza-bacteria interactions in boreal forests have not explicitly considered different soil horizons in spite of the fact that boreal forest podzols are highly stratified and have both organic and mineral soil horizons with markedly different physicochemical charac- teristics lundstroeurm et al.

