we and others have previously demonstrated that human pluripotent stem-cell-derived human intestinal organoids hios closely resemble immature intestinal tissue       and recent work has established gastrointestinal organoids as a powerful model of microbial pathogenesis at the mucosal interface    .in the current work we used hios as a model immature intestinal epithelium and a human- derived non-pathogenic strain of e. coli as a model intestinal colonizer to examine how host-microbe interactions affected intestinal maturation and function.

collectively these studies shed light on how microbial contact with the immature human intestinal epithelium can lead to modified function.resultspluripotent stem-cell-derived intestinal epithelium transcriptionally resembles the immature human intestinal epitheliumprevious work has demonstrated that stem-cell-derived human intestinal organoids resemble imma- ture human duodenum   .

recent reports suggest a multifactorial etiology by which immature intestinal barrier function predisposes the preterm infant to intestinal injury and inflammation following post- partum microbial colonization       .

e daily proportion of hio cultures with no culturable e. coli in the external media following e. coli microinjection n  48 or pbs microinjection n  8.figure 1 continued on next pagefigure 1 continuedthe following figure supplements are available for figure 1figure supplement 1. pluripotent stem-cell-derived intestinal epithelium transcriptionally resembles the immature human intestinal epithelium.

collectively these results suggest that e. coli coloniza- tion is associated with a rapid burst of epithelial proliferation but that relatively few of the resulting daughter cells are retained subsequently within the epithelium.the transcription factor sox9 is expressed by progenitor cells in the murine intestinal epithelium   and several epithelial subtypes are derived from a sox9-expressing progenitor population in the mature intestinal epithelium ab0.60.40.20.50.40.30.20.124487296time post-microinjection h  pbs  e. colicdfigure 3. bacterial colonization results in a transient increase in epithelial proliferation and the maturation of enterocytes.

taken together these results indicate that association of the imma- ture intestinal epithelium with e. coli promotes robust mucus secretion through an nf-kb-dependent mechanism and that hypoxia alone is not sufficient to recapitulate e. coli-induced mucus production.nf-kb signaling is required for the maintenance of barrier integrity following bacterial colonizationhaving established that the immature intestinal epithelium in hios  can be stably associated with non-pathogenic e. coli  resulting in broad changes in tran- scriptional activity  and leading to elevated production of amps  and epithelial mucus secretion  we hypothesized that these changes in gene and protein expression would have functional consequences for the immature epithelial barrier.

reduction of luminal o2 concentration occurs in the neonatal gut    possibly as a result of the con- sumption of dissolved o2 by the anaerobic and facultative anaerobic bacteria that predominate in the intestinal microbiome in early life     and the mature intestinal epithelium is hypoxic relative to the underlying lam- ina propria due to the close proximity to the anaerobic luminal contents   .

nds normal donkey serum pbs phosphate buffered saline.transparent reporting formmajor datasetsthe following dataset was generatedauthorsyear dataset titledataset urldatabase license and accessibility informationhill dr2017 rna-seq of human intestinal organoids colonized with e. coli and other immature intestinal tissues publicly available at the accession no e-mtab-5801the following previously published dataset was usedauthorsyear dataset titledataset urldatabase license and accessibility informationfinkbeiner s spence jr2014 transcriptional profiling of human pluripotent stem cells and and derived tissues publicly available at the accession no emdatabanke- mtab-3158referencesaagaard k ma j antony km ganu r petrosino j versalovic j.

nature genetics 2525-29. doi  pmid aurora m spence jr. 2016. hpsc-derived lung and intestinal organoids as models of human fetal tissue.developmental biology 420230-238. doi  pmid balimane pv chong s. 2005. cell culture-based models for intestinal permeability a critique.

tools and resourcesbacterial colonization stimulates a complex physiological response in the immature human intestinal epitheliumdavid r hill1 sha huang1 melinda s nagy1 veda k yadagiri1 courtney fields2 dishari mukherjee3 brooke bons2 priya h dedhia4 alana m chin1 yu-hwai tsai1 shrikar thodla1 thomas m schmidt3 seth walk5 vincent b young2jason r spence161division of gastroenterology department of internal medicine university of michigan ann arbor united states 2division of infectious disease department of internal medicine university of michigan ann arbor united states 3department of microbiology and immunology university of michigan ann arbor united states 4department of surgery university of michigan ann arbor united states 5department of microbiology and immunology montana state university bozeman united states 6department of cell anddevelopmental biology university of michigan ann arbor united statesfor correspondence youngvi umich.edu vby spencejrumich.

here we demonstrate that the epithelium of human pluripotent stem-cell-derived human intestinal organoids is globally similar to the immature human epithelium and we utilize hios to investigate complex host-microbe interactions in this naive epithelium.

learning more about how a healthy newborn intestine becomes colonized and responds to this colonization may help medical professionals to better care for normal infants and those who are at risk of intestinal disease.

but it has been difficult to study because there is not much newborn intestinal tissue available for scientific research.

although the composition of the neonatal intestinal microbiome varies between individuals organisms within the genera escherichia are domi- nant early colonizers   and non-pathogenic e. coli are widely prevalent and highly abundant components of the neonatal stool microbiome     .

these analyses compared hios consisting of epithe- lium and mesenchyme to whole-thickness human intestinal tissue which also possessed cellular con- stituents lacking in hios such as neurons blood vessels and immune cells .

