the nob community abundance was also shown to be affected by the pharmaceuticals feeding c. gene nxrb used to estimate the nob abundance was detected in the range of 104 gene copies per ul of genomic dna on phase i and its abundance on phase ii and iii wasrelatively lower about 103 gene copies per ul of genomic dna.the bacterial community established within granules plays a crucial role in the biological removal processes which can be disrupted due to the presence of micropollutants e.g.

a dna based analysis of the bacterial community was per- formed combining dgge fingerprinting and barcoded pyrosequencing as well as qpcr to quantify specific bacterial groups.ags bacterial community structure analysis by pcr-dggedgge analysis of 16s rrna gene fragments was used to investigate ags bacterial community changes throughout the three phases .the dgge profiling revealed structural differences along bioreactor operation.

concerning the equitability index e there were no significant differences over the operational period p  0.05. very similar values ranging from 0.79 to0.89 data not shown were found indicating that there was an almostuniform distribution of species abundance within the ags during the whole operation.ags bacterial community composition by 454-pyrosequencingthe bacterial community of the ags-sbr was analyzed by 454 high- throughput pyrosequencing to evaluate whether there were significant shifts in the composition of the bacterial communities throughout bioreactor operation.

castro i. henriques.received 10 july 2017 received in revised form 18 september 2017 accepted 20 september 20170147-6513c2017elsevierinc.allrightsreserved.bacterial community  .for this reason understanding the effect of the environmental contaminants frequently present in wastewaters such as pharmaceu- ticals on the ags microbial community is crucial for this technology implementation.

ags microbiome changed over time but a core community was maintained probably ensuring the accomplishment of the main biological removal pro- cesses.introductionthe aerobic granular sludge ags technology has been successfully applied for the treatment of industrial and domestic wastewaters  .

abundance of targeted bacterial genes in agsthe relative abundance of pao aob nob and total bacteria was assessed on different days of each phase to understand the impact of the feeding with pharmaceuticals on the abundance of key microorganisms .

this combined with the eps protective matrix at the granules surface will avoid the penetration of the toxics protecting the bacterial community .the analysis of the bacterial community composition within gran-ules by 454-pyrosequencing also revealed that a dynamic population was present over time probably because of the adaptation to the changes in the living environment.

con- cerning the aob community after the beginning of the load of phar- maceuticals gradual changes were found on the abundance of amoa gene which was used to estimate the aob population size.

a more detailed analysis revealed that bacterial community on day-42 was dominated by flavobacterium genus from the bacteroidetesphylum which relative abundance reached 50 of the total populationfig.

the ags bacterial community structure and composition were accessed combining dgge finger- printing and barcoded pyrosequencing analysis.

the ags microbiome at both phylum and class levels varied over time and after stopping pharmaceuticals feeding the bacterial community did not return to its initial composition.

dgge analysis gave a first overview on the compositional patterns and dynamics while pyrosequencing allowed deeper insights into the structure of bacterial community within ags.

1. bacterial community structure within ags over time analyzed by dgge profiling of 16s rrna gene fragments.

3. heat map of the top 10 most abundant otus within ags bacterial community.

4. venn diagram showing the distribution of specific and common otus within the ags bacterial community throughout bioreactor operation.

