using our method the activities of microcolonies attached to pillar tops can be compared with cells embedded in a thin matrix the biostrings and characterized side-by-side a. for example future live-cell studies on bacterial cells on top of pdms micropillarscompared with their neighboring biostrings can reveal phenotypical differences between solid-surface-associated and matrix-associated cell colonies in a highly controlled environ- ment a. generally surface-anchored s. aureus cells grow into porous nonhomogeneous shaped biofilms on flat surfaces b. the suspended s. aureus cells on our pdms platform showed a more homogeneous radial growth from nanostring structures into micrometer-thick rod-shaped structures.

s. aureus cells were fixed using 2.5 glutaraldehyde for 2 h and air-dried in a fume hood for 12 h. the pdms samples were then coated with a 10 nm layer of gold and inspected using a field emission scanning electron microscope zeiss leo 1550.associated contents supporting informationthe supporting information is available free of charge on the at doi .optical images of pdms platforms of varying micropillar surface coverage sem image of platforms where bacteria were fixed in solution before plating on pdms microposts and adhesion patterns of bacteria plated onto pdms microposts after 1 or 4 h incubation author informationcorresponding authore-mail .orcidfrank x. gu notesthe authors declare no competing financial interest.referenceshutchison j. b. rodesney c. a. kaushik k. s. le h. h. hurwitz d. a. irie y. gordon v. d. single-cell control of initial spatial structure in biofilm development using laser trapping.

hexagonally arranged arrays of pdms micropillars were fabricated using a soft-lithography technique as shown in a. the fabricated structures were inspected using scanning electron microscopy sem b. the liquid repellent properties of these platforms were evident from the displacement of saline solution from areas in the center of the platforms that contained micropillars when the platform was immersed into the solution c. to gauge the wettability of the pdms platform by saline and nutrient broth solutions which are commonly used for s. aureus culture ortable 1. summary of measured contact angle values for saline and nutrient broth solutions on pdms platforms with surface coverage percentages ranging from 19 to 33 and calculated theoretical values for r f th and thath is the young's contact angle on a flat surface thc and thw are the cassie-baxter and wenzel contact angles respectively r is the roughness factor and f represents the area fraction of the liquid-solid interface.figure 2. formation of s. aureus colonies on hydrophobic pdms micropillars.

modeled the dewetting mechanisms of hexagonally arranged pdms micropillar arrays and showed that the alignment of dna nanowires on top of micropillars ishighly dependent on the direction of dewetting as well as the arrangement of the micropillars.additionally increasing either the incubation time  a or the initial concentration of s. aureus cells in the saline solution before plating cells b allowed the control of the number of s. aureus cells attached to the top surfaces of micropillars and embedded within biostrings suspended between micropillars as shown in .

we concluded that in addition to the wetting properties ofhydrophobic pdms micropillars the formation of networks depended on biological processes namely the active adhesion of bacteria on pillar tops and the formation of thin biofilms at the bottom surface of the solution which was not achievable with inactive bacteria.the proposed mechanism of biostring formation is depicted in a. during the 1 h incubation of bacterial solution on pdms micropillars s. aureus cells adhere to the solid surfaces that are available to them specifically the flat pdms surface and the top surfaces of micropillars.

these studies used wetting dewetting characteristics of pdms micropillars to deposit and suspend highly ordered arrays of dna nanowires on top of micropillars.- to test this we fixed s. aureus cells in solution and plated these dead cells onto pdms micropillar platforms and aspirated the samples after 1 h incubation.

due to their exceptional wetting properties micropatterned hydrophobic surfaces have been used for a variety of applications including macroscopic fabrication of one-dimensional nanostructures such as aligned dna or micellar nanowire arrays.- our method takes advantage of the wetting properties of pdms micropillars as well as the adhesion and biofilm formation of s. aureus cells on surfaces to produce nanostrings and rods of s. aureus cells.results and discussionwetting properties of pdms micropillars by bacteria culture media.

in this study we propose a simple and low-cost physiochemical method pertaining to both physiology and chemistry for patterning s. aureus cells and controlling the architecture ofmicrocolonies of s. aureus cells on polydimethyl siloxane pdms hydrophobic micropillars.

furthermore such biostrings were observed on pdms micropillar arrays of various surface coverages 27- 33 however a higher number of biostrings were obtainable on platforms with higher surface area coverage of micropillars .next we examined whether the formation of biostrings of s. aureus was due to active adhesion and activity of s. aureus cells or purely a physicochemical phenomenon resulting in a mere deposition of cells during the dewetting process by mechanisms similar to some previous studies.

cracking of the bacteria film and clustering of micropillars seen for 24 h incubation times are likely caused while drying thesamples for imaging.storage the shape and contact angles of droplets of saline and nutrient broth were measured on a control flat pdms as well as micropatterned pdms samples as shown in d. the contact angle of broth on the flat pdms sample 107deg - 4deg was considerably lower than that of saline 115deg - 3deg  d indicating more repellence between the saline solution and the flat pdms surface.

both side-view and top-view sem images and top view optical images indicated the adhesion of bacteria to the pillar tops as well as the flat pdms surfaces at 1 and 4 h incubation times with a higher density of adhered cells for longer incubation times of 4 h as expected b. however after 24 h of incubation bacterial cells fully covered the pdms platform indicating that the solution penetrated into the surface asperities after 24 h and created a fully wetted condition.

s. aureus cells in a saline solution were plated on the pdms platform as shown in a and incubated for 1 4 or 24 h. as predicted by wetting studies adhered bacterial cells only remained on the top surface of micropillars when the sample was aspirated after a 1-4 h incubation time b as the saline solution likely did not penetrate between micropillars during this time frame.

specifically methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus remains one of the most dangerous and prevalent causes of infection which can occur both in health care settings such as medical devices or joint implants and in the wider community causing complications such as food born illnesses.-s. aureus is a gram-positive non-motile spherical coccus bacterium with a diameter of 500 nm which forms grape-like clusters onor horizontal gene transfer-or long-range communica- tions between spatially separated microcolonies throughquorum sensing.in addition these complex communication methods between bacterial cells have allowed them to rapidlyreceived october 17 2016accepted january 3 2017published january 3 2017c 2017 american chemical society675doi figure 1. pdms micropillar platform fabrication and characterization.

the stock solution of s. aureus cells was diluted 10-fold or 5-fold in saline for low- or high-density cell patterning respectively.for each experiment the pdms platforms were placed inside a petri dish and 4.5 ml of the diluted s. aureus solution was added until the solution covered the entire platform a. the platforms were then incubated at 37 degc for 1 4 or 24 h. subsequently the samples were aspirated to remove bacterial solution and either imaged immediately using optical microscopy or prepared for sem analysis.

d biostrings of s. aureus cells connecting three adjacent micropillars and forming a network of s. aureus cells.

