we isolated c. perfringens strains and performed pcr analysis for the main c. perfringens toxin genes alpha beta beta2 epsilon iota and c. perfringens enterotoxin gene.

autistic subjects also harbor statistically significantly p 14 0.015 higher counts of beta2-toxin gene- producing c. perfringens in their gut compared to control children and the incidence of beta2-toxin gene-producing c. perfringens is significantly higher in autistic subjects compared to control children p 14 0.014. alpha toxin gene was detected in all c. perfringens strains studied.

the significance of enterotoxin-positive c. perfringens in healthy subjects is not clearly understood however it cannot be ruled out that some healthy subjects may serve as a reservoir for toxin-positive c. perfringens and therefore may be more prone to developing c. perfringens- associated diseases particularly in case of damaged intestinal mucosa impaired immunity or dysbiosis.c.

c. perfringens can be pre- sent in the gut microbiota of humans and animals alike without the host individual displaying any negative signs or symptoms.this study examined the presence of c. perfringens andc.

after centrifugation at 13000g for 5 min at room temperature the supernatant fluid was removed and used in the pcr reaction.toxin gene pcrwe performed pcr analysis for the main c. perfringens toxins to detect the genes for c. perfringens alpha-toxin cpa beta-toxin cpb beta2-toxin cpb2 iota-toxin ia and enterotoxin cpe us- ing primer pairs as shown in .

significance reported for any analysis was defined as p 0.05. spearman's rank correlation coefficient was calculated between c. perfringens cfug and beta2-toxin gene-producing c. perfringens cfug.resultswe performed quantitative selective anaerobic culture from stool specimens of 33 autistic children and 13 control children .

all tested c. perfringens harbored c. perfringens alpha toxin gene 26 autism samples and 5 control samples harbored genes for beta2-toxin and 3 autism and 1 control sample harbored genes forc.

the pcr analysis for clostridial toxins of c. perfringens isolates revealed that autism samples had statistically significantly p 0.014 higher incidence of c. perfringens beta2-toxin gene .

perfringens cell count obtained from stool samples of the autistic children was 6.55 104 cfug dry weight and1.48 103 cfug dry weight from normal control children p 0.015. c. perfringens cfug and the cfug of beta2-toxin gene- producing c. perfringens were moderately positively correlated spearman corr 14 0.7125 .discussiongastrointestinal symptoms are increasingly reported in autistic children e. published data suggests that an alteration in colonic microbiota contributes to autistic symptoms .

in the present study we found that samples from autistic subjects have statistically significantly higher counts of the species c. perfringens p 0.031 compared to samples from control subjects with mean counts of over 105 cfug.generally a low percentage 1e5 of c. perfringens isolates from healthy human fecal microbiota produce enterotoxin .

1 mw marker 2e12 c. perfringens beta2-toxin 12 14 atcc 3626 13 mw marker 14e16 c. perfringens entero-toxin cpe 16 14 atcc 14809.fig.

2. spearman's rank correlation of c. perfringens cfug and the cfug of beta2-toxin-producing c. perfringens presented in log 10 scale blue 14 autism red 14 control log value th 100. spearman's corr 14 0.7125 showing moderate positive correlation.

our results indicate that autistic subjects with gastrointestinal disease harbor statis- tically significantly p 14 0.031 higher counts of c. perfringens in their gut compared to control children.

c. perfringens enterotoxin gene was detected from three autistic and one control subject.

clostridium perfringens is a clinically impor- tant clostridium species within clostridium cluster i. c. perfringens are anaerobic gram-positive and spore-forming bacteria which are common in many different microbiota and are found in soil marine sediment decaying vegetation and in the intestinal tract of humans and other organisms.

