To develop a community level understating of how microorganisms colonize and move through the hospital environment we mapped microbial dynamics between hospital surfaces air and water to patients and staff over the course of one year as a new hospital became operational.

Staff hand microbial communities were significantly more similar to the microbiota of built hospital surfaces than were patient hands likely as a result of greater staff mobility within the hospital.

This may be due to regularLax et al.Page 3cleaning of the hospital floors or more likely the diversity of other individuals walking throughout the hospital who were not sampled in this study.To investigate the degree to which the microbiota of individual patient rooms varied over the year we calculated the variability of the core microbiome Figure 3A.

Immediately following the introduction of staff and patients the hospital microbiome became dominated by human skin-associated bacteria.

However outside of a small number of studies limited to ICUs and neonatal care rooms12-14 no detailed longitudinal culture-independent analyses of the hospital microbiome have beenperformed15.Here we present a yearlong microbial survey of the microbiota associated with the patients staff and surfaces of the newly constructed Center for Care and Discovery University of Chicago.

Sampling began 2 months prior to the hospital becoming operational on February 23rd 2013 and continued for nearly a year post-opening.

We collected 6523 microbialLax et al.Page 2samples from multiple sites Table S1 in 10 patient care rooms and two nursing stations across two hospital levels.

Environmental conditions including temperature humidity illuminance CO2 concentrations and infrared doorway beam breaks were continuously monitored16-17.A soon as the hospital became operational the floor and nursing station surfaces saw a significant increase in the relative abundance of the human-skin associated genera Corynebacterium Staphylococcus and Streptococcus and a decrease in Acinetobacter and Pseudomonas which dominated pre-opening samples Figure S1ABC Figure S2.

Pre-opening room and station floor samples had highly similar microbial communities but were dissimilar to other surfaces while post-opening floor samples had a greater degree of similarity to all surfaces Figure 1B.To determine the strength of microbial interaction between different hospital surfaces we calculated the degree to which samples taken from two different surfaces on the same day and in the same room or building level resembled each other using a method we term PC space correlation Figure 2.

The strongest observed correlations were between the hand microbiota of hospital staff and their personal cell phones and pagers r  0.52 and 0.50 respectively which has been observed previously18-19.

