Thus AC could have an important role in regulating the mode of growth of B. pertussis during infection in addition to its multiple roles in modify- ing host responses summarised in.Therefore it appears that the contribution of AC-affecting toxins to the life cycle of patho- genic bacteria may be considerably more complex and involve behaviours far and beyond the offensive playing defensive immune modulation functions altering the mode of growth and aiding in niche establishment and bacterial dispersal to new sites of colonisation or infection.Host cell membrane destruction Asymptomatic carriage and niche establishmentThe haemolytic capability of bacteria was one of the first true virulence factors identified for bacteria and the major mechanism through which this occurs is the formation of pores in the host cell membranes causing them to lyse.

However from an evolution- ary perspective as the bacteria rarely transmit from an invasive infection to another person these infections represent a dead end for the bacteria and so the selective advantage the toxins confer to the bacteria during invasive disease is if anything negative .Consideration of SSTIs does provide some explanation for the long-term benefit of produc- ing toxins however it requires us to merge our appreciation of offensive and defensive activi- ties if the cell types killed by the toxins are the cellular components of host immunity then they can be simultaneously offensive and defensive.

Whilst it's tempting to think that the lysis of immune cells might facilitate the ability of S. aureus to colonise the nose the exogeneous destruction of cells and tissue would result in the triggering of inflammatory processes which is neither a feature associated with carriage of S. aureus nor conducive to long-term colonisa- tion of this niche.

In addition to killing leukocytes which enables the bacteria to survive the onslaught of the immune system S. aureus SSTIs are notori- ous for the amount of purulent material that is produced and this feature has been shown in many studies to be directly affected by toxins -.

There are several recent papers that show that once taken up by phagocytes S. aureus pore-forming toxins such as alpha toxin facilitate escape from the phagosome enabling the bacteria to enter the cytoplasm and replicate and establish an intracellular niche .

We have shown that during invasive disease this subversion allowed S. aureus to sur- vive inside phagocytes  and speculate toxins may be functioning in a similar manner dur- ing colonisation potentially facilitating the carriage status and the bacteria's long-term survival and ongoing transmission.Surfactant-like toxins Niche establishment and providing a competitive edgeA second class of toxins that attack host cell membranes are the surfactant-like phenol-soluble modulins PSMs which to date have been found to be expressed only by staphylococcal spe- cies.

It is therefore interesting to note that in vitro the surfactant effect of PSMs on the environment surrounding the bacteria has been shown to con- tribute to the ability of S. aureus to move across agar surfaces in a process referred to as sliding .

While for many bacteria there is a tangible benefit to producing toxins in that they directly contribute to their replica- tion and transmission to new hosts   there are several for which it is not clear how causing disease symptoms is of any selective advantage to the bacteria.

A Phagocytosis of invading bacteria is followed by fusing of the phagosome to the lysosome resulting in destruction of the bacteria.

Whilst this sliding activity may be solely an in vitro phenomenon that the expression of the PSMs is highly density dependent provides a potential explanation for how this might assist in the early colonisation of the nasal cavity as it could potentially facilitate the spreading of the bacteria across the lining of the nasal cavity once an optimal density at their initial attachment site has been reached.Protein synthesis-inhibiting toxins Modulating the immune responseThe inhibition of protein synthesis has catastrophic effects on host cells and is a pathogenic approach adopted by several bacteria.

