however the mechanisms by which bacterial endophytes attach on plant surfaces remain relatively unexplored .entry of bacterial endophytes into the host plantbacterial endophytes initially attach to the root surface also called rhizoplane and explore the potential entry sites to access the internal plant tissues.

many genes involved in bacterial chemotaxis and secretion systems were found in bacterial groups colonizing the brachypodium rhizosphere and may be expressed during the colonization of roots by these endophytes .colonization cycle of bacterial endophytes in the host plantbacterial endophytes are capable of colonizing different seed parts including the embryo.

in addition to vertically transmitted endophytes alien endophytes new cohorts of endophytes accrue in the plant endosphere during plant growth.

further improvements in these techniques could possibly allow the identification of individual species or strains or a putative functional unit in a bacterial community that is critical for interaction with host plants and subsequent growth-promotion.poplar endophytes and their colonization efficiency in crop plantsto illustrate the methodology used in studying plant colonization by endophytes we provide here an example of cross-species colonization of poplar tree endophytes with the monocot grass maize.

bacterial endophytes reside in the internal plant tissues which may be a favorable environment for n-fixation that minimizes competition with other microbes in the rhizosphere as well as possibly providing a microaerobic environment that is necessary for nitrogenase activity -.the use of bacterial endophytes in agriculture has immense potential to reduce the environmental impacts caused by chemical fertilizers especially n fertilizers.

however the mechanisms used by bacterial endophytes to mitigate abiotic stress remain unclear.recruitment of bacterial endophytes by host plantsthe rhizosphere is defined as the soil-root interface where complex interactions take place between the plant and surrounding soil microorganisms .

overall molecular mechanisms by which plants select specific bacterial endophytes over others remain largely unknown .attachment of bacterial endophytes to the host plant surfacethe attachment or adhesion of bacterial cells to the plant surface is considered the first step of the colonization process.

the mobility of bacterial cells accompanied by the synthesis of cellulolytic enzyme may help endophytes to spread to aerial plant parts including leaves and stems .in leaves bacterial endophytes have been observed in the intercellular spaces of mesophyll and xylem tissues and substomatal areas.

one possible hypothesis is linked to the observation that intracellular colonization by endophytes is associated with a bombardment of the colonizing endophytes by intracellular hydrogen peroxide.

the specificity of this adaptation is supported by a change of shape of the intracellular endophytes of switchgrass to an l-form lacking a cell wall as well as the fact that many of these endophytes are not currently culturable .

classic microbiology methods relying on culturing the endophytes including fluorescent tagging may be difficult to implement in the study of these intracellular endophytes.

the hypothesized colonization cycle of bacterial endophytes in different growth stages of host plant is summarized in figure .figure 1. hypothesized colonization cycle of bacterial endophytes in the host plant.

2015 methods used in colonization studiesplating studies to determine the number of colony forming units cfu of endophytes within the plant in addition to microscopy based techniques used to visualize individual bacterial cells andor microcolonies as well as modern genomic sequencing-based approaches are all common techniques used to investigate the colonization of inoculated or indigenous bacterial endophytes in plants.

the cfu count of bacterial endophytes from surface sterilized above ground and below ground tissues are used as an estimate of the internal populations of endophytes in the host plant .

furthermore it has been shown that these endophytes colonized rice and maize plants effectively and resulted in greater biomass under nutrient limited conditions .in this review we present a novel example of a study of colonization by endophytes using a poplar endophyte.

