irrigation solution was a 14 strength hoagland saline nutrient solution with a salinity of 10 average salinity in lima river estuary.after an acclimation period of two weeks vessels with p. australis 6 vessels and with non-vegetated sediment 6 vessels were spiked with a cu saline solution resulting in a sediment cu concentration of 270 mg g-1 a concentration corresponding to the erm effects range- median value which is the sediment quality guideline that indicates the pollutant concentration above which it is frequent to occur adverse biological effects in marine and estuarine sediments   to half of these vessels the respective microbial consortium see section .

non-vegetated sediment was dominated by the phylum bacteriodetes 10 the family desulfo- bacteraceae 10 and non-identified orders of the classes gammapro- teobacteria 9 epsilonproteobacteria 6 and deltaproteobacteria 5 whereas rhizosediment was dominated by non-identified orders of the classes deltaproteobacteria 18 and gammaproteobacteria 11 the family desulfobacteraceae 8 and phylum acidobacteria 5. the microbial consortia produced as control from non-vegetated sediment and rhizosediment were both dominated by the same bac- terial groups namely the genus sporolactobacillus respectively 82 and 72 and acetobacter 9 and 18 and the order clostridiales 6. in the presence of cu the two consortia evolved differently as the consortium obtained from the non-vegetated sediment was dominated by the genus lactococcus 46 raoultella 25 bacillus 12 and acinetobacter 11 whereas the consortium obtained from rhizosedi- ment was dominated by the genus gluconacetobacter 77 bacillus 17 and dyella 3.microcosms experimentthe microcosms experiment was assembled to evaluate firstly if autochthonous microbial consortia resistant to cu could increase p. australis phytoremediation potential to remediate sediments con- taminated with this metal being this the aim of a parallel study .briefly obtained results showed that an increase of metal levels in the medium clearly lead to an accumulation of cu not only in below- ground structures but also in plant stems indicating metal translocation .

complementarily the consortium and the sediment used for its production were characterized by next generation sequencing using the pyrosequencing platform 454. the microbial consortium resistant to cu obtained from non-vegetated sediment was dominated by the genus lactococcus 46 raoultella 25 bacillus 12 and acinetobacter 11 whereas the one obtained form rhizosediment was dominated by the genus gluconacetobacter 77 bacillus 17 and dyella 3. results clearly showed that after two months of experiment cu caused a shift in the bacterial community structure of sediments an effect that was observed either with or without addition of the metal resistant mi- crobial consortium.

non-vegetated sediment cubes similardimensions were simultaneously collected.estuarine water and rhizosediment and non-vegetated sediment were also collected into plastic sterile containers for the development of the microbial consortia and for initial microbial communities' char- acterization.vessels were kept for 2 months in a greenhouse placed outdoors exposed to natural light and temperature conditions being watered through an automatic irrigation system regulated to mimic the natural floods that occur in salt marshes.

control consortia without cu addition were prepared in parallel to understand the effect of the enrichment process on the bacterial community.for each type of sediment p. australis rhizosediment and non-ve- getated sediment six slurries were prepared each with 60 ml of se- diment 120 ml of estuarine water and 3.5 ml of a 4 mol l-1 glucose solution.

at the end four different mi- crobial consortia were obtained rhizosediment with cu addition rhi- zosediment control sediment with addition of cu and sediment control.vessels dismantlingafter 2 months vessels were dismantled.

in this work 4 types of microbial consortia were developed two from rhizosediment and non-vegetated sediment exposed to cu and two from rhizosediment and non-vegetated sediment without exposure to cu.

for the autochthonous microbial consortia cur and cus represent consortia produced from respectively p. australis rhizosediments and non-vegetated sediment to which cu was added controlr and controls represent consortia produced from respectively p. australis rhizosediments and non-vegetated sediment without cu addition control.

numbers represent replicate samples.table 2percentage of sequences of the most abundant taxa abundance  2 present in the initial sediments non-vegetated sed and p. australis rhizosediment rhizo and microbial consortia cu r and cu s represent consortia produced from respectively p. australis rhizosediments and non-vegetated sediment to which cu was added cont r and cont s represent consortia produced from respectively p. australis rhizosediments and non-vegetated sediment without cu addition control.

it should be noted that the sediment used was doped with cu because cu natural levels in selected sediment were low.

for instance in authors works   the microbial consortia were obtained through sediment slurries exposer to a high amount of a metal to select microorganisms resistant to that metal the sediment being from the rhizosphere of different salt marsh plants j. maritimus and p. australis.

all works showed promising results but more studies should be carried out to help choosing the most suitable approach.in the present work since the microbial consortium was obtainedfrom a slurry of a sediment not previously exposed to high levels of cu the sediment was doped with cu for the experiment this auto- chthonous bioaugmentation process might be used to remediate newly contaminated estuarine sediments for instance after a contamination event and not only for long term impacted areas.conclusionsresults clearly showed that after two months of experiment cu caused a shift in the bacterial community structure of sediments an effect that was observed either with or without addition of the metal resistant microbial consortium.

bacterial communities present in the autochthonous microbial consortium resistant to cu added to the medium and in the sediment at the be- ginning and at the end of the experiment were characterized by arisa.

both these studies used microbial consortia obtained by exposing the respective rhizosphere sediment to selected metals obtaining a slurry enriched in metal-resistant micro- organisms.

however understanding the behaviour of the microbial communities in the process of bioaugmentation and their role in improving metal phytoremediation is very important to fully validate the application of this biological technology.this study aimed to characterize the bacterial community dynamicassociated with the application of autochthonous bioaugmentation in an experimentation which showed that p. australis rhizosphere micro- organisms could increase this salt marsh plant potential to phytor- emediate cu contaminated sediments .experiments were carried out in controlled conditions in a system that simulated the natural estuarine environment namely the tidal regime with sediments and plants with sediment attached to their roots collected from an estuary.

