clustering was based on bsahn software following the unweighted pair group method algorithm upgma.phospholipid fatty acid analysis of the aged landfill leachate microbiotaplfa analysis of the mixed microbial population of the aged landfill leachate was performed by extracting membrane lipids through the implementation of the bligh and dyer method  and methyl esterification ntougias et al.

landfill leachate is a wastewater formed inside a san- itary landfill site and is considered an important environmen- tal issue due to the recalcitrant nature of the organic matter fernandes et al.

landfill leachate contains several or- ganic and inorganic groups of pollutants with broad variation in their chemical structures depending on the age and the nature of the wastes present in the landfill the climate factors humidity and rainfall rates and the selected landfilling tech- nique di iaconi et al.

by proceeding the sta- bilization process through landfill site maturation recalcitrant humic and fulvic compounds of high molecular weight and low biodegradability remain in the soluble fraction of the landfill leachate thus resulting in bod5cod values below0.1 di iaconi et al.

at this stage the stabilized leachate is characterized by low bod5 high ammonium concentration and an increasing toxicity which further compromises the biological processes bashir et al.

.despite the fact that some research has been carried out in the past decade on the treatment of mature landfill leachate regarding the appropriate method for carbon and nitrogen re- moval yapsakli et al.

identification of their closest rela- tives was performed through blast search and sequence alignment was conducted by clustal omega sievers et al.. mega6 tamura et al.

on the contrary strains wa68 and lb8 could not catabolize anyone of the organic substrates tested as the sole carbon and energy sourcetable 2phylogeny of bacteria isolated from the aged landfill leachate analyzedotus isolatesaccession no.closest phylogenetic strainsimilarity isolation nichereferencelb12 ll3 kx354298-kx354299 bacillus flexus ifo15715t99.7feces and soilpriest et al.

at this stage humic substrates appear to be among the major organic compounds identified in the landfill leachate kjeldsen et al.

sofias 12 67100 xanthi greeceintroductionsanitary landfilling under control conditions is a commonly applied method for the disposal of solid wastes in urban area hassan and xie  lema et al.

in young landfills the dissolved organic fraction consists mainly of volatile fatty acids and the cod in many cases can exceed 10000 o2 mgl kjeldsen et al.

kjeldsen et al.

christensen et al.

cortez et al.

kjeldsen et al.

