carbon ni- trogen in lake ecosystems mladenov et al.

studies of the re- sponses of bacterial communities to nutrient conditions are crit- ical to understanding how climate change potentially affects mi- crobial communities in alpine lakes pearce  tranvik et al.

.since most alpine lakes are usually oligotrophic numer- ous studies of alpine lake ecosystems have concentrated on assessing the importance of nutrient availability on bacterial community composition and diversity perez and sommaruga  logue et al.

liu et al.

the empirical evidence suggests that freshwater species richness in oligotrophic lakes depends on nutrient availability rather than on species-area relationships logue et al.

observations from field surveys also indicate that bacteria from different taxonomic groups may have diverse re- sponses to specific dissolved organic substrates kirchman et al.

elifantz et al.

moreover a large body of literature based on nutrient enrichment experiments demonstrates that the actinobacteria alphaproteobacteria and betaproteobacte- ria are dominant bacterial groups in oligotrophic lakes pearce et al.

pearce et al.

a recent study concludes that in- creasing total nitrogen tn gradients induce a significant non- linear response of bacterial community assemblages from pro- teobacteria to cyanobacteria in plateau freshwater lakes cao et al.

this area is influenced by the westerlies yao et al.

from 1961 to 2009 the mean an- nual temperature was 0.7c and the mean annual precipitation was 127 mm liu et al.

the lake area is about 10 km2 and it has a shallow lake basin with an average water depth of 15 m and a maximum depth of 20 m liu et al.

duplicate 100 ml aliquots were col- lected to measure dissolved organic carbon doc and tn as previously reported liu et al.

bacterial abundance was measured with flow cytometry beckman coulter epics altra ii using sybr green i molecular probes nucleic acid stain at a final concen- tration of 1 part in 1.0 x 104.dna extraction bacterial 16s amplification and illumine miseq sequencingcommunity dna was extracted from sediments using asource of nutrients to support downstream bacterial commu-fastdnaqrspin kit mp biomedicals santa ana ca follow-nities hood et al.

