reprinted from walker 14 with permission.inflammation of the intestine 16 leading to diseases such as inflammatory bowel diseases.in a like manner colonizing bacteria prime t-helper cells subsets th1 th2 th17 and treg to activate a balanced immunologic response and to evoke on intestinal immune homeostasis rather than inflammation 17. these stimulated t-helper cells produce a balanced humoral and cellular immune response in- cluding an appropriate t-regulatory reaction leading to immune tolerance.a major component of intestinal protective function is the capacity to de- velop oral tolerance to commensal bacteria and innocuous antigens.

in a recent experimental study for example the absence of breast milk-induced polymeric iga given to newborn rodent pups affects the intestinal microbiota and predisposes to a greater access of gram-positive organisms to the mucosalbarrier 8. in addition intestinal bacteria induced by breastfeeding can stimu- late enterocyte genes that both promote intestinal development and immune protection 9. furthermore recent studies have suggested that breast milk has its own microbiome consisting in part of commensal bacteria found in mother's intestinal tract 10. to what extent the ingestion of breast milk bacteria influ- ence the ultimate composition of the infant's intestinal microbiota has not yet been determined.other studies have suggested that diet can influence gut colonization at vari- ous periods throughout life.

since intestinal bacteria influence gut metabolic and immunologic function the fluctuations in bacterial coloniza- tion at the time when immune homeostasis is developing has a profound effect on the infant's general health and the prevention of disease expression later in life.an example of this process is the development of immune tolerance.

immune tolerance to innocuous antigens and commensal bacteria is the absence of a sys- temic immune response to their stimulus and thus an absence of autoimmune disease states.

a normal balanced initial colonization during the newborn period is necessary toactivate oral tolerance and to prevent the expression of allergic and other im- mune-mediated diseases later in life 18. thus normal initial colonization of the neonatal gastrointestinal tract is necessary for the development of appropri- ate intestinal immunoprotective function and the prevention of disease.dysbiosisdysbiosis the abnormal colonization of the intestine with less species diversity and altered phyla can unfortunately commonly occur with the initial coloniza- tion of the newborn intestine 19. thus dysbiosis provides colonizing bacteria which either fail to activate the needed immunoprotective function or actually stimulate a distinct immune response an imbalance in lymphocytes or the up- regulation of immune cells which favor inflammation.

an experimental study has shown that when com- mon probiotic organisms bifidobacteria or lactobacilli are grown in either high- carbohydrate- saturated and unsaturated fat- or protein-containing media a differential proliferation of the probiotic bacteria can occur as well as a differen- tial stimulation of specific bacterial genes 11. in addition a recent study com- paring the microbiome of children living in a primitive village in africa with that of children in a city in a developed country florence italy showed a striking difference in their microbiomes suggesting that diet a complex carbohydrate diet with no animal fat or protein africa versus a standard western diet includ- ing processed foods italy had a strong influence on the composition of intes- tinal colonizing bacteria 12. although not specifically studied it is known that the disease burden between these 2 patient populations differs dramatically sug- gesting that the influence of diet on microbiome content may in turn impact on long-term health.

finally a recent large clinical study suggested that long-term modifications in diet carbohydrate vs. fat affect 5 the individual's enterotype functional clusters of bacteria expression of intestinal bacteria 13.immunologic consequences of normal colonizationevidence exists that during a full-term pregnancy components of mucosal im- mune function in the fetuses can develop.

basel c 2017bacterial colonization of the newborn gut immune development and prevention of diseaseallan walkermucosal immunology and biology research center massgeneral hospital for children charlestown ma and division of nutrition harvard medical school boston ma usaabstractwe now know that the fetus does not reside in a sterile intrauterine environment but is exposed to commensal bacteria from the maternal gut which cross the placenta and in- filtrate the amniotic fluid.

why is this im- portant cross talk with colonizing bacteria in the developing neonatal intestine helps in the initial adaptation of the infant to extrauterine life particularly in acquiring immune homeostasis and provides protection against disease expression e.g.

oral tolerance develops only with bacterial colonization 3 which also defines appropriate immunologic responses to stimuli including the nature of the t-helper cell subset response and other immunologic cellular subsets 4. as new studies are reported regarding the association between intestinal coloni- zation and host defense we have come to appreciate the importance of appro- priate initial colonization and immune homeostasis.normal intestinal colonization - symbiosiswe now know that the human fetus does not reside in a sterile environment 5. experimental and clinical evidence exists to suggest that the human fetus is ex- posed to bacteria in utero.

evidence is provided that colonizing bacteria activate the appropriate expression of intestinal defenses including compo- nents of the mucosal barrier as well as both innate and adaptive immune re- sponses including oral tolerance.

factors in breast milk affect the composition of intestinal microbiota by stimulating pioneer bacteria which are essential in the activation of intestinal immune defenses such as polymeric iga production.

ann nutr metab 201363suppl 28-15.artis d epithelial-cell recognition of com- mensal bacteria and maintenance of immune homeostasis in the gut.

reprinted from walker 14 with permission.table 2. microbial colonization and immunologic adapta- tion to the extrauterine environmentprotective enterocyte barrier functions innate immune responsesadaptive immune responses polymeric iga secretion balanced t-helper cell responses oral tolerancee.g.

this exposure to colonizing bacteria continues at birth and dur- ing the first year of life and it has a profound influence on lifelong health.

