the bacterial communities from stations s1-2 were characterized by the presence of pioneerpopulations while the bacterial community from station s4 could be considered at a secondary stage with a majority of pioneer bacterial populations competing with invader bacterial populations well adapted to the environmental conditions and mineral resources.

these bacterial populations can be considered as pioneer species possibly exhibiting high grow rates but due to the fumaroles natural extreme conditions a more structured bacterial community could not be established.at stations s1 and s2 two fumaroles 2 m apart cos- mopolitan bacterial genera were also detected such as for example massilia sp.

overall the paricutin volcano showed low bacterial diversity and its prokaryotic diver- sity was characterized by the impossibility of amplifying archaea-related sequences.keywords extreme environments  bacterial communities  t-rflp  16s rrna geneintroductionvolcanism may be defined as the manifestation at the sur- face of a planet or satellite of internal thermal processes through the emission of solid liquid or gaseous products francis  herrera and cockell .

in contrast the bacterial 16s rrna gene was efficiently amplified in all samples allowing the analysis of bacterial diversity.

.the characterization of bacterial communities inhabitingdifferent fumaroles around the volcano allowed hypotheses to be formulated on bacterial colonization processes.

it is likely that the more structured bacterial communities were observed at station s5 dominated by few bacterial populations and at station s3 exhibiting many low abundant populations.

we characterized the physical-chemical parameters of and bacterial com- munities t-rflp and 16s rrna gene libraries inhabit- ing fumarole niches of the paricutin volcano located in michoacan mexico.

the most abundant bacterial populations confirmed by t-rflp and 16s rrna gene libraries were related to members of firmicutes and proteobacteria phyla including sequences associated with thermophiles andsulfate reducing bacteria.

in the present study we ana- lyzed the bacterial diversity in several fumaroles showing different physical-chemical characteristics.

the bacterial diversity was characterized using culture-independent methods terminal restriction frag- ment length polymorphism t-rflp and 16s rrna gene library analyses.

the comparison of structures and com- position of the bacterial communities between the diverse fumarole stations led to the determination of specific bac- terial populations according to the physical-chemical conditions.materials and methodssampling site and chemical characterizationthe paricutin volcano supplementary fig.

the bacterial 16s rrna gene was amplified with 8f and 907r primers 5'-agagtttgatcctggctc ag-3' and 5'-gcccccgtcaattcmtttragttt-3'respectively lane  in a ptc 200 thermo-cycler mj research as described in guyoneaud et al.

were unsuccessful we thus focused our study on bacterial diversity.

the bacterial community structures were clustered according to their position on the volcanic cone.

first bacterial com- munities from stations s1 and s2 at the base of the cone constituted a cluster driven by sulfur phosphorus and air temperature.

