2.core microbiota associated with ice wormsin order to identify dominant bacterial otus that were consistently associated with ice worms we first listed otus for which the frequency in a sample was 0.1. these otus were then sorted into four groups i otus dominant in both harding and byron worm samples designated as core otus ii otus dominant in harding worm samples onlyiii otus dominant in byron worm samples only iv other dominant otus which did not fit into groups i to iii but were included in the 10 most abundant otus see the legend to fig.

among these bacteria enriched in ice worm samples mollicutes arcicella and herminiimonas phylotypes were abundantly and consistently detected in the ice worm samples these phylotypes constituted the core microbiota associated with the ice worm.

the other core otus were frequently and abundantly detected in both ice worm and glacier surface samples.the majority of otus that were only dominant in either the harding or byron worm samples were also abundantly recovered from their corresponding habitat glacier surface samples but were less abundantly detected in the other glacier surface samples fig.

core otus otus accounting for 0.1 of sequences in five or six of the harding worm samples and also in nine or more of the byron worm samples including dna and rna samples.

the mean number with sd of the observed otus in each sam- ple category was as follows 79-16 harding worm dna 546-350 harding worm rna 101-44 byron worm dna 1105-583 byron worm rna 230-160 harding surface dna 757-297 harding surface rna 116-30 byron surface dna and 810-274 byron surface rna.

entomoplasmatales otu23265 and arcicella otu19485 contributed to the grouping of byron worm samples and the harding worm-specific lachnospiraceae otu742 correlated with the grouping of harding worm samples.

thus the observed number of otus as well as the chao1 species richness estimate and reciprocal simpson's diversity index were higher in rna samples than in dna samples in any of the worm or glacier surface samples table s1.

procedures were described in detail previously 27.nucleotide sequence accession numbersdatasets of 16s rrna reads sequenced in this study have been deposited in ddbjemblgenbank under the accession number dra005157.resultstaxonomic composition and species richness of bacteriathree and six sets of the ice worm samples each set con- taining five individual worms from harding and byron designated as harding wormbyron worm respectively were subjected to 16s rrna amplicon sequencing.

bar10 mm.lachnospiraceae and ruminococcaceae bacteria in the mammalian gut are more specialized for the degradation of plant-derived recalcitrant substrates such as cellulose than clostridiaceae bacteria 4. since algal cells are one of the main food sources of ice worms 17 27 lachnospiraceae members may play an important role in the digestion of algal polysaccharides in the ice worm gut.several rickettsiales and parachlamydiaceae otus were also almost exclusively detected in the ice worm samples.

alternatively these bacteria might proliferate in the ice worm body by infection from ingested eukaryotic organisms it has been reported that certain members of the rickettsiales or parachlamydiaceae can be horizontally transferred from their original hosts to phyloge- netically distinct host organisms by ingestion or mucosal infection 26 39 43.it is notable that arcicella otu19485 and herminiimonas otu17386 which belong to glacier-indigenous lineages were greatly enriched in the ice worm samples.

arcicella and herminiimonas are both aerobic and heterotrophic bacteria the former utilize various carbohydrates 7 and the latter utilize organic acids as carbon sources 15 20. arcicella species potentially feed on mucus and excrement secreted by the ice worm and herminiimonas species although their localization remains unknown may incorporate metabolites produced by the host or other bacterial species.marked differences in otu compositions between the harding and byron ice worm samples were largely attribut- able to differences in bacterial community structures between the harding and byron glacier surfaces fig.

due to the harsh survival conditions of the ice worm its populations have been geographically isolated among habitat glaciers 9 10. thus bacterial lineages that specifically inhabit the ice worm body might also be isolated and exhibit different taxonomic compositions in the respective glaciers.an analysis of the 16s rrna transcript in addition to the gene sequence can provide information on active bacterial species 5 36. interestingly dominant otus in the rna samples of the ice worms were affiliated with both glacier- indigenous and ice-worm-specific bacterial lineages fig.

the separation of clusters in the nmds plot was correlated to otu abundance by calculating spearman's correlation coefficient with mothur v1.37.0 29.in each of the 16s rrna otus recovered from the ice worm samples differences in abundance between dna and rna samples were statistically tested in r v3.2.2 using the deseq2 package with the negative binomial wald test 23. if the adjusted p value was less than 0.05 we considered the otu abundance to be significantly different between dna and rna samples.phylogenetic analysisnearly full-length 16s rrna gene sequences obtained in our previous study 27 were aligned using arb 24 with manual cor- rections.

for example entomoplasmatales and mycoplasmataceae sequences were abundantly detected in ice worm samples whereas only a few were recovered from the glacier surface samples.

3. however several otus such as otu742 lachnospiraceae otu9924 parachlamydiaceae otu3927 entomoplasmatales and otu18119 rickettsiales were specifically detected in either the harding or byron worm samples but were almost never found in any of the glacier surface samples.

