21 359-366.Oliveira P. S. S. G. Souza G. B. Campos D. C. da Silva D. S. Sousa S. P. Arau'jo L. P. Ferreira V. M. Santos A. T. Amorim A. M. Santos et al.

Other pathogens present in the metagenome B. nigrifluens R. pick- etti S. marcescens E. rhapontici and E. percicina were not de- tected among the transmitted bacteria.The majority of bacteria present in the gut might not have been detected in the feeding experiment for several reasons including the fastidious nature of certain bacteria strains preventing culture under lab conditions the inability to grow on soybean agar and LB me- dium and bacteria not being present in the saliva or on the mouth- parts but located in the gut itself.In summary some bacteria transmitted by redbanded stink bug feeding B. atropheus Acinetobacter spp.

A. Gabal S. A. Abdelaziz A. G. Ibrahim and A. E. Mohamed.

Thus the three individuals in this study con- tained 74 51 of 69 species of the total estimated species richness .The species richness per sample was the highest in the RBSB 9 50 species and the lowest in the RBSB 14 13 species and .

Nevertheless the majority of southern green stink bugs transmitted only one bacteria species with a maximum of four species  which is consistent with what we found in our redbanded stink bug study .Most transmitted bacteria belonged to the genus Staphylococcus.

The species richness of RBSB 9 is 2-3.8x higher than that of the other samples and thus RBSB 9's bacteria composition com- prises most if not all species found in the other samples.Only 7 of the 51 putative species Enterobacter hormaechei Pseudoxanthomonas mexicana Brevundimonas diminuta Holospora sp.

Four bacteria matched two strains of S. aureus one bacterium matched S. epidermidis and S. xylosus each.

Sequences with  97 similarity were assumed to belong to the same bacteria species.Illumina-Based 16S rRNA Gene Metagenome Sequencing of the Uncultured Gut Bacteria Community of Redbanded Stink BugThree redbanded stink bug individuals RBSB 6 9 and 14  that transmitted various bacteria strains in the previous experiment were taken from the -80 0C freezer and thawed for culture- independent bacteria metagenome analysis.

belong to the core taxa of the lettuce rhizosphere  where they are likely involved in denitrification and nitrite reduction  .Several species among the bacteria gut community of the red- banded stink bug are known as gut bacteria from insects and other animals including the bovine rumen and human gut and might ben- efit insect digestion and nutrition.

67 889-892.Harris A. K. N. R. Williamson H. Slater A. Cox S. Abbasi I. Foulds H. T. Simonsen F. J. Leeper and G. P. Salmond.

