CLA production strategy in Yarrowia lipolytica and inMortierella alpina.DHAP dihydroxyacetone phosphate G3P glycerol-3- phosphate LPA lysophosphatidic acid PA phosphatidic acid DAG diacylglycerol TAG triacylglycerol FFA free fatty acids.G3PD G3P dehydrogenase SCT glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase PAP PA phosphohydrolase DGA acyl- CoADAG acyltransferase TGL triacylglycerol lipase ACOT Acyl-CoA thioesterase FAA fatty acyl-CoA synthe- tase FAS fatty acid synthase PAI polyunsaturated fatty acid isomerase.

ReviewBacterial conjugated linoleic acid production and their applicationsBo Yang He Gao Catherine Stanton R. Paul Ross Hao Zhang Yong Q. ChenHaiqin Chen Wei Chena State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology Jiangnan University 1800 Lihu Avenue Wuxi 214122 Chinab School of Food Science and Technology Jiangnan University 1800 Lihu Avenue Wuxi 214122 Chinac National Engineering Research Center for Functional Food Jiangnan University 1800 Lihu Avenue Wuxi 214122 Chinad Teagasc Food Research Centre Moorepark Fermoy Co. Cork Irelande APC Microbiome Institute University College Cork Cork Irelandf College of Science Engineering and Food Science University College Cork Cork Irelandg Beijing Innovation Centre of Food Nutrition and Human Health Beijing Technology and Business University BTBU Beijing 100048 ChinaA R T I C L E I N F O KeywordsConjugated linoleic acid Bacterial CLA-producersCLA bioconversion mechanism Microbial cell factoriesA B S T R A C T S Conjugated linoleic acid CLA has been shown to exert various potential physiological properties including anti- carcinogenic anti-obesity anti-cardiovascular and anti-diabetic activities and consequently has been con- sidered as a promising food supplement.

The first process is from LA to monoenoic acid followed by the process from monoenoic acid to stearic acid .

However when the gene was cloned into var- ious expression systems no CLA was produced although recombinant Bacillus subtilis produced a fatty acid with the same molecular weight as a hydroxylated linoleic acid derivative at the expense of linoleic acid .

This finding suggests that the two hy- droxyl fatty acids are intermediates in CLA production starting with hydration of linoleic acid to 10-hydroxy-octadecenoic acid and sub- sequent dehydrating isomerization of the hydroxyl fatty acid to CLA.Furthermore hydroxyl fatty acids when used as substrate were con- verted to CLA by L. acidophilus.

10-hydroxyl-cis-12-octadeneic acid 10-oxo-cis-12-octadeneic acid 10-oxo-trans-octadeneic acid are detected which is considered as the intermediates during the iso- merization of LA into CLA.

Furthermore the advances and potential in the heterologous expression of CLA genetic determinants will be presented.IntroductionConjugated linoleic acid CLA refers to a group of positional and geometric isomers of linoleic acid C182 c9c12 with conjugated double bonds.

Corresponding authors at School of Food Science  Technology Jiangnan University 1800 Lihu Avenue Wuxi Jiangsu 214122 China.E-mail addresses H. Chen W. Chen.1 Contribution equally to this study.Received 8 June 2017 Received in revised form 29 August 2017 Accepted 6 September 20170163-7827c2017ElsevierLtd.Allrightsreserved.Table 1High CLA-producing strains.a Represent the results is expressed as mg CLA content per gram lipid.b Means that soy oil is used in the hydrolyzed form.c Represents the reaction occurs in the skim milk.c9t11-CLA and t9t11-CLA producersRumen bacteriaRumen bacteria can bio-hydrogenate some unsaturated fatty acids to trans-vaccenic acid or stearic acid with CLA as intermediate .

CLA could also be accumulated at a level of up to 2700 mgl by L. plantarum JCM1551 with ricinoleic acid 12-hydroxy- cis-9-octadecenoic acid as the substrate .

Linoleic acid could be converted into different hydroxyl fatty acids such as 10-HOE 1013-diHOA and 13- hydroxy-cis-9-ocatadecenoic acid 13-HOE.

