research articlebacterial diversity in buruli ulcer skin lesions challenges in the clinical microbiome analysis of a skin diseasechloe' van leuvenhaege1 koen vandelannoote1 dissou affolabi2 franc oise portaels1 ghislain sopoh3 bouke c. de jong1 miriam eddyani1 conor j. meehan11 mycobacteriology unit department of biomedical sciences institute of tropical medicine antwerp belgium 2 laboratoire de re'fe'rence des mycobacte'ries cotonou benin 3 institut re'gionale de sante' publique cdtub allada benin these authors contributed equally to this work.

2017 bacterial diversity in buruli ulcer skin lesions challenges in the clinical microbiome analysis of a skin disease.

however ade- quately studying the human microbiome in a clinical setting can prove difficult when investi- gating a neglected tropical skin disease due to its rarity and the setting.methodologyprincipal findingsusing 16s rrna sequencing we determined the microbial composition of 5 bu lesions 3 non-bu lesions and 3 healthy skin samples.

the totality of microorganisms and their collective genetic material present on the skin is called the skin microbiome.

with molecular techniques such as 16s rrna metagenomic sequencing this bias is reduced yielding a more precise overview of the bacteria present within the ulcers and their relative abundances.the totality of microbes present on the human skin is referred to as the skin microbiome .

additionally since the microbiome dif- fers between body sites sufficient samples should be taken from the same site on different patients and controls for proper comparisons.in this pilot study we compared the microbial population associated with bu andnon-bu skin samples from patients with ulcers of different etiology collected in benin and healthy skin samples from similar body sites collected from the same bu endemicarea and from public datasets to look for shifts in the microbial diversity associated withm.

this is not a problem restricted to bu as similar numbers would be required for other neglected tropical skin diseases such as yaws up to 20000 cases per year in some countries  and even more prominent skin diseases such as cutaneous leishmania- sis 70000-1.2 million cases per year  and leprosy 250000 cases per year  for which a previous microbiome study was undertaken but with no matching non-leprosy lesions or local healthy controls .

editor olivier neyrolles institut de pharmacologie et de biologie structurale francereceived april 4 2017accepted july 6 2017published july 27 2017copyright c 2017 van leuvenhaege et al.

in addition to ensuring a wide yet comparable spread of ages samples from contralateral unaffected skin are needed to control for genetic differences for specific body sites with diverse ecology and bacterial distribution and to compare with as healthy skin controls.

studies comparing healthy skin and psoriatic lesions with skin biopsies as a sampling method had 10-15 patients per sample group .

public library of science 2008 3 e2719.pmidfahle'n a engstrand l baker bs powles a fry l. comparison of bacterial microbiota in skin biopsies from normal and psoriatic skin.

such skin microbiome analysis requires large sample sizes and lesions from the same body site in many patients both of which can be difficult for a rare dis- ease.

under normal conditions resident and transient bacteria within this microbiome will increase the resistance of the skin against pathogens through immunomodulation.

guidelines have been put forward for the clinical analysis of skin microbiome samples.

while the size of this study is small it does highlight some of the pit- falls and difficulties associated with undertaking such tropical skin disease microbiomestudies.methodssample overviewthis microbiome study was nested within a study on ex vivo rna expression and differential diagnosis of bu.

