terrestrial effluent carrying large volumes of cold fresh water to coastal systems has the ability to impact and shift dolphin the microbial community structure and ren- ders dolphin skin more susceptible to skin lesions and the potential for microbial penetration leading to disease .

the goals of this study include the following 1.characterizing microbial composition vari- ability between hosts bottlenose dolphin within a geographic region southern california 2 characterizing microbial composition variability of host bottlenose dolphin between ecotypes coastal versus offshore 3.contributing to the ongoing effort to identify distinct microbial communities associated with bottlenose dolphin ecotypes that can aid in the assessment of health 4.identifying microbial communi- ties associated with dolphins that can also serve as indicators for ocean and human health particularly coastal dolphins that share overlapping recreationalfood sources with humans.materials and methodssample collectionskin biopsy samples were obtained from six free-ranging common bottlenose dolphins off southern california between 2008 and 2010. standard protocols for projectile biopsy sam- pling were followed to obtain skin and blubber samples from large research ships or small boats conducting research in the southern california bight .

1 the 20 most abundant bacteria accounted for 64 of total bacteria recovered fromtop 20 most abundant bacteria recovered from coastal dolphinscoastal dolphin skin samplesguanmclmasaspifrioetdeogbeancutesroiafacinetopbsaecutderomonasenterobacter caiterroobmacotnearsdechloromonascorynebacteriumpropionibacteriumunocflsatsrseipfiteodpgheyntaus geobacillusstreptococcusparacomcceutshylobacteriumof the coastal dolphin population is smaller  500 than that of the offshore population  1000 and the related variance in their respective microbiomes may simply reflect this differ- ence.

because the prevalence of skin lesions on cetaceans appears to be on the increase   the role of bacteria and their contribution to health maintenance have become of increasing research interest.long-term studies on common bottlenose dolphins tursiops truncatus have identified a variety of causes lead- ing to skin lesions including potentially infectious pathogens e.g.

nature 409507-510apprill a robbins j eren am pack aa reveillaud j mattilla d moore m niemeyer m moore kmt mincer tj 2014 humpback whale populations share a core skin bacterial commu- nity towards a health index for marine mammals plos one 93. harzen s brunnick b 1997 skin disorders in bottlenose dolphins tursiops truncatus resident in the sado estuary portugal.

the current study uses ribosomal dna as a marker to identify bacteria found on the skin of coastal and offshore bottlenose dolphins off of southern california.

the unique microbial communities recovered from these dolphins suggest a greater microbial diversity on the skin of offshore ecotype bottlenose dolphins while microbial populations associated with the coastal ecotype include species that are more closely related to each other and that suggest exposure to communities that are likely to be associated with terrestrial runoff.keywords microbiome .

thus studies on the skin of bottlenose dolphins are applicable to the growing scientific and socioeco- nomic interest in ocean and human health  .the current study employs molecular biology and geno- mics techniques on samples from coastal and offshore ecotype bottlenose dolphins off southern california.

there were four females 3 coastal and 1 offshore ecotypes and two males 2 offshore ecotypes.nucleic acid extractionbottlenose dolphin skin samples 25 mg were homogenized and genomic dna gdna was extracted via a purelink pro 96 genomic dna kit invitrogen--k1821-04a.

anosim shows a statistically significant distinction per ecotype coastal vs. offshore p value  0.001389.discussionthis study provides a catalog of the skin microbiome of coast- al and offshore bottlenose dolphins off southern california.

counter to this line of reasoning however our results show that coastal bottlenose dolphins display much tighter clustering in regard skin microbiome while offshore dolphins carry a greater variance of microbial populations.

these results should continue to strengthen the linkage between pop exposure and organismal health as well as prompt follow-up studies on sources of oil input and disturbance to marine and coastal ecosystems in addition to the impact on bioremediation.the importance of this work is in its demonstration that microbiotas on the skin of wild bottlenose dolphins can be assessed and inventoried.

as a marine sentinel species that shares a habitat overlapping with human recreational activities as well as some aspects of human diet studies focusing on the skin of bottlenose dolphins have the potential to provide insight regarding ecosystem integrity and human health.acknowledgements the authors gratefully acknowledge an award to djg from the bureau of ocean energy management through their coastal impact assistance program administered by the mississippi department of marine resources that supported cdr.

or in the case of coastal dolphins sample collection location n  3. three 3 samples were collected from coastal ecotype dolphins and three 3 from the offshore ecotype table .

coastal dolphins additionally are exposed to contaminants and toxins related to coastal urbanization and near shore pol- lution .

