lps reduced the rt of the avian virus in water compared to the rt of virus in the water control by 58 rt of virus in water rtwater  4.2 days rt of virus in water containing lps rtlps  1.8 days and to a greater extent by 66 for the human h1n1 rtwater  3.0 days rtlps  1.0 day.

a stability of a human h1n1 wsn-gfp virus after incubation for 1 h at 48degc with heat-killed gastrointestinal tract bacterial isolates normalized to a water control n  4. b a wst-1 assay was performed to assess the cytotoxicity of the heat-killed bacteria to mdck-siat1-cmv-pb1 cells in the absence of virus after incubation overnight together n  2 to 4. c to test whether the reduction in stability observed was due to the bacteria affecting susceptibility of the host cells to infection mdck-siat1-cmv-pb1 cells were pretreated with diluted heat-killed s. enterica or water for2h at 37degc prior to infection or were infected immediately with a mixture of virus and 1 mgml of s. enterica cells or water n  3. data are represented either as the data for individual replicates or the means plus standard errors of the means sem error bars.

we found that lps significantly reduces the freeze-thaw stability of the human h1n1 pr8 virus by 34-fold compared to the stability of virus in the water control p  0.001 whereas the avian h3n8 virus was not significantly affected .

our results demonstrating that the sub- type and host origin of a virus also influence its susceptibility to lps raise key questions about the fitness of viruses in reservoir hosts their potential to transmit to humans and the importance of bacterial-viral interactions in viral ecology.keywords bacteria environmental microbiology influenza lipopolysaccharide microbiome virologynfluenza a virus iav is a global threat infecting 5 to 10 of adults and 20 to 30 of children globally every year  and infections in humans and highly pathogenic iav outbreaks in livestock substantially burden the economy  .

additionally lps binding to mouse mammary tumor virus mmtv resulted in increased immune evasion and transmission of the virus  .

our method of heat inactivating the bacteria prior to incubation with iav may be denaturing proteins and enzymes that would otherwise interact with the virus or that may be damaging the cell wall of the bacteria such that the virus is exposed to cytoplasmic bacterial products that would not happen normally.

a stability of a human h1n1 wsn-gfp virus and an avian h3n8 virus after incubation for 1 h at various temperatures with lipopolysaccharide lps n  3. b output titers of h1n1 wsn-gfp and h3n8 across a range of input titers from tissue culture cells either i pretreated with lps or water control and then infected or ii infected immediately after mixing the viruses with lps or water n  4. bdl below detectable limit.

across a range of virus titers tested the addition of lps did not reduce the expected titer in our system for both scenarios  suggesting that the reduction in infectivity observed was due to lps interacting directly with the virus rather than the tissue culture cells mounting an antiviral response.

all of the strains tested had significantly reduced stabilities in water containing e. coli lps compared to the water control after incubation at 48degc for 1 h  suggesting that lps appears to have a universaleffect of reducing the stability of influenza viruses.measurements of relative stability of each virus in water containing lps compared to the relative stability of each virus in the water control lpswater stability did not follow a normal distribution p  0.05 by the shapiro-wilks test and were tested with a nonparametric kruskal-wallis h test.

the one avian h3 virus propagated in mdck cells displayed reduced susceptibility to lps and the one human h3 virus propagated in eces displayed increased susceptibility indicating that the propagation hosts are not entirely responsible for our observed results.our data suggest that subtype and host origin of iav influence the ability of theap2 passage 2 mdck madin-darby canine kidney cells ece embryonated chicken eggs.b1 and 2 are used here to differentiate the two human h1 viruses in this experiment.fig 5 bacterial lipopolysaccharide affects the integrity of the viral envelope but does not affect aggregation.

influenza a virus iav has a broad host range comprises many subtypes and uti- lizes different routes of transmission including the fecal-oral route in wild birds.

furthermore using a receptor binding assay and transmission electron microscopy we observed that lps binds to and alters the morphology of influ- enza virions suggesting that direct interaction with the viral surface contributes to the observed antiviral effect of lps on influenza.importance influenza a virus iav transmitted primarily via the fecal-oral route in wild birds encounters high concentrations of bacteria and their products.

all past pandemics of iav in humans and outbreaks in livestock have origins in viruses that previously circulated among wild aquatic birds which are the natural reservoir for the virus .

in wild birds the virus transmits primarily via the fecal-oral route .

as a result iav encounters multiple environments including the following environments i the gas- trointestinal gi tract inside the host ii the feces in which the virus is shed and iiiseptemberoctober 2017 volume 2 issue 5 e00267-17msphere.asm.org 1fig 1 summary of the indirect and direct interactions of bacteria and lipopolysaccharide on pathogenic viruses.

