here we compare the bacterial communities inhabiting the rhizosphere and root surrounding soils of three spontaneous plant species with a non-vegetated bulk soil from a site heavily contaminated with chlorinated persistent organic pollutants and heavy metals demonstrating that both the soil fraction and the plant species cooperated in the selection of a specific bacterial assemblage in the root-associated soils.

since in vitro screening alone is not always sufficient to evaluate the actual pgp potential of bacterial strains   this result is encouraging for further in vivo tests with plant species selected for rhizoremediation trials considering that these bacteria are also well adapted to the heavy pollution of the sin caffaro soil.conclusionin this work we reported that three spontaneous plant species selected in the strongly pcb-polluted soil of a historical contaminated site differentially affected the composition of the bacterial community in the root-associated soil fractions.

proteobacteria dominated also the rhizospheres with gammaproteobacteria 26 and alphaproteobacteria 9 as the main proteobacteria-classes while in s fraction the actinobacteria was the dominant phylum 30.moving from the root-associated fractions r and s to the non-vegetated bulk soil a strong reduction of the actinobacteria phylum was observed in the bacterial communities from an average of 33 in r to an average of 6 in b supplementary table 5. an opposite trend has been observed for acidobacteria bacteroidetes verrucomicrobia and gemmatimonadetes phyla that were enriched in the non-vegetated bulk soil and strongly limited in r and s fractions supplementary table 5. finally while firmicutes bacteria were enriched in r 7 respect to the other two fractions 1 chloroflexi were more prevalent in s 10 respect to r 7 and b 4. difference in taxa enrichment and selection were observed also according to the plant species in both r and s fractions supplementary table 7. the ms and cn bacterial communities in r fractions were dominated by gammaproteobacteria 52 and actinobacteria 50 respectively determining a higher dominance index value 0.32 and 0.28 in these communities respect to the dg one 0.15 while dg hosted a more equally distributed bacterialcommunity with evenness index of 0.62. an opposite trend has been observed in the s fraction where dg was dominated by actinobacteria 37 while ms and cn presented several taxa equally distributed within the bacterial communities evenness0.72 and 0.69 respectively supplementary table 7.the bpha gene was detected by means of qualitative pcr using different primer sets in the metagenomes of all b s and r samples.

considering only the r and s soil fractions associated to the three plant species m. sativa ms c. nigrescens cn and d. glomerata dg the bacterial population assemblage was significantly driven by both plant species and soil fraction  permanova f112  4.72 p  0.001 and permanovaf212  3.21 p  0.05 respectively supplementary table 2bbut not by their interaction permanova f217 1.67 p  0.05 supplementary table 2b.

prior to perform the statistical analysis we verify that the data were not over-dispersed using permdisp for the factor fraction f118  3.61 p  0.21 and the factor plant f215 9.36 p 0.06. the shared otus among different fractions and plant species have been defined by venn-diagram analysis using the software available at diversity indexes were calculated using past   and their statistical difference was evaluated with the analysis of variance considering the index as response variable and fraction and plant as explanatory categorical variable see above for details.

however the spread of bpha gene in the bacterial microbiota of the sin caffaro soil indicated an intrinsic pcb attenuation potential in this site regardless of soil fraction or plant species suggesting a stronger role of edaphic conditions rather than vegetation.isolates potential for rhizoremediationthe root system of plant growing on other pcb polluted sites was shown to host pcb metabolizing bacteria    .

the results showed that the recruitment of specific bacterial communities in the root-associated soil fractions was driven by both soil fractions and plant species explaining 21 and 18 of the total bacterial microbiome variation respectively.

quantification of the individual factors' contributions to the observed bacterial community variations determined by permanova of bray- curtis showed that the two factors fraction and plant species equally contributed to determine the observed bacterial microbiome variation explaining 21 and 18 of the variation respectively supplementary table 3 followed by the interaction of these two factors 11. for the three fractions not significant differences have been retrieved considering the otu richness but among the rhizosphere the ms and cn plants presented a lower number of otus .

despite that the quantification of bpha gene with primers 512f and 674r was possible only for two replica of the cn rhizosphere bpha16s rrna ratio cn r2 0.56 0.03 cn r3 0.50 0.08 and one replica of the dg s bpha16s rrna ratio dg s2 0.08 0.004 showing the highest bpha16s rrna gene ratio in the cn rhizosphere.identification of rhizosphere biphenyl-utilizing bacterial isolatesone-hundred sixty-five bacterial strains have been isolated from the rhizosphere of the three plant species ms cn dg in mineral medium supplemented by biphenyl as unique carbon source hence considered as potential biphenyl degraders.

a second analysis was conducted exploring difference of the microbial assemblage among plants and fractions using the factor plant three levels m. sativa c. nigrescens and d. glomerata and the factor fraction two levels rhizosphere and root surrounding soil both as a fixed and orthogonal and their interaction fraction plant.

statistical analysis was performed by a pairwise comparison between each bacterial strain inoculated with the negative control using student's t-test.resultsdiversity and degradation potential of bacterial communities associated to non-vegetated and root-associated soil fractions in the sin caffarothe b-diversity of bacterial communities colonizing non-vegetated bulk soil b and root-associated soil fractions rhizosphere r and root surrounding soil s in the sin caffaro was significantly different  permanova f2183.48 p 0.0007 supplementary table 2a.

chemosphere 40 943-949. sylvestre m. 2013. prospects for using combined engineered bacterial enzymes and plant systems to rhizoremediate polychlorinated biphenyls.

methods 7 335-336. cardinale m. ratering s. suarez c. zapata montoya a. m. geissler-plaum r. and schnell s. 2015. paradox of plant growth promotion potential of rhizobacteria and their actual promotion effect on growth of barley hordeum vulgare l. under salt stress.

j. soils sediments 13 925-931. ma y. prasad m. n. v. rajkumar m. and freitas h. 2011. plant growth promoting rhizobacteria and endophytes accelerate phytoremediation of metalliferous soils.

1.89. oslo university of oslo.hernandez m. dumont m. g. yuan q. and conrad r. 2015. different bacterial populations associated with the roots and rhizosphere of rice incorporate plant-derived carbon.

