in the case when a model involves latent or miss- ing data one can employ data augmentation techniques pro- posed by tanner and wong 1987. the main idea of data augmentation method is that instead of working with the intractable posterior density th  it is convenient to work with th o  where o is the missinglatent data in the model.

bayesian inference via pgdafor  1 ...  1 the distribution of the observed data conditional on the lvs    is 1      bayesian inference for lv model with mixed nbg1  16and zinb responsesthe data in our model contain the observed nb or zinb count1 1g  1  exp1 outcomes  the direct fixed effect covariates   thewhere  0    - log.indirect fixed effect covariates   the kinship coeffi- cient related matrices  and the random effect design matrixfor  1  1 ...   we introduce a set of indicator vari- .

notice that the param- eter estimates for the structural zero part are less accurate than those for the count data part in zinb responses table 2 which is consistent with prior observations on the studies of univariate count response with zero inflation lambert 1992. this is not surprising given the discrepancy between the infor- mation provided by counts in the count part and the binary data in the structural zero part.

our method also performs well on the estimations of most of the random effects but is less accurate for the variance of serial random effect on thedic comparisons on model selectionsto examine the performance of dic in selecting the most appropriate models we compare the dics of the true model with different scenarios of model misspecifications on the data distributions under simulation 2. the misspecified models misspecified distributions are indicated in bold we have investigated include the fitting of zinb nb zinbnb zinb zinb or nb nb nb distributions to the data corresponding to the misspecifications of 1 2 and3 respectively.

typical data in microbiome studies are the taxonomic counts that are nonnegative and often overdis- persed with excess zeros xu paterson turpin  xu 2015. the zero inflation of microbiota abundance is due to the fact that some of the operational taxonomic units otus are sub- ject specific and are detected only in a fraction of the samples.

this hierarchical classification struc- ture implies a multivariate nature of microbiome data.

how- ever there is a paucity of multivariate methods for analysis of such data.

it not only can improve the power of test but also allows for making infer- ence about the dependence structure within the cluster.a common way of modeling multivariate count data is to use the multinomial model.

however the multinomial model does not model the overdispersion of count data which is often observed.

to allow for overdispersion dirichlet multi- nomial dm regression chen  li 2013 and logistic nor- mal multinomial regression xia chen fung  li 2013 were proposed for modeling microbiome data.

these meth- ods are based on the underlying assumption that the data are generated by sampling from the community and the proba- bilities of a given read being from each taxon sum to one.

family members thus impose further com- plexity to the multivariate modeling of the count data.

in the context of22  1  1 ...   microbiome studies manifest variables can be the observed counts of the multiple taxa within a certain hierarchical clus- 1 ...  ' are count data following zinb distribu- tion w1 ithter which inform the lv that represents the underlying con- ceptual traits of this taxonomic cluster.

to deal with more gen-eral situations of microbiome data we extend their method20with probability  with probability 1- to accommodate mixed negative binomial nb and zero-where 0 represents the structural zero.inflated nb zinb variables as a feasible solution for mod-let  1 ...   and   1 ... eling multiple count outcomes.

we adopt a polya- gamma data augmentation pgda technique proposed by polson scott and windle 2013 to the bayesian lv model.

