2013 zhang and davies 2016. microbial biotechnology can be of use in different disciplines that can contribute to more sustainable poultry and other animal species production in the futuredefining the microbiota composition and microbial functional pathways in the chicken's intestinal tract and their relation with intestinal health and perfor- mance.insight in microbial community organization and char- acterization of the functional activities of these communi- ties is a key topic nowadays and essential to understandsustainable broiler production 1009how microbiota-host interactions drive intestinal health and function.

beneficial microbial signals from alternative feed ingredients a way to improve sustainability of broiler productionfilip van immerseel1 venessa eeckhaut1 robert j. moore2 mingan choct3 and richard ducatelle1 1department of pathology bacteriology and avian diseases faculty of veterinary medicine ghent university merelbeke belgium.2school of science rmit university bundoora vic.australia.3school of environmental and rural science university of new england armidale nsw australia.summarymore sustainable broiler meat production can be facilitated by the increased use of cheap by-products and local crops as feed ingredients while not affect- ing animal performance and intestinal health or even improving intestinal health so that antibiotic usage is further reduced.

2017. in addition research on the modes of action of these products and on underlying microbiota- or host-related functions involved in intestinal health has led to a better under- standing of the intestinal ecosystem in health and dis- ease stanley et al.

all these above-mentioned ideas need coordinated approaches that combine classi- cal microbiology analytical chemistry but also high- throughput sequencing and bioinformatics.summarizing more sustainable broiler meat produc- tion can be facilitated by the increased use of cheap by-products and local crops as feed ingredients while not affecting animal performance and intestinal health or even improving intestinal health so that antibiotic usage is further reduced.

2015. because of concerns about antibiotic resistance and driven by legislation and consumers' perception and demands nowadays the use of antimicrobials is decreasing in some cases leading to an increase in intestinal health problems.the move away from antimicrobials has led to increas- ing concerns about gut health that may be compromised by bacterial diseases enteritis dysbiosis and poor digestibility and result in poor growth performance of birds.

2016 there is a clear need to further investigate microbial taxa that are over- or underrepresented in the gut of chickens in specific experimentally induced or field cases of intestinal health problems.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology microbialbiotechnology 10 1008-10111010 f. van immerseel et al.relation to intestinal health havenaar 2011 russell et al.

therefore knowledge of the relation- ship between the taxonomic and functional microbiota composition and intestinal health is required and the relationship between the feed sources the substrates present and the breakdown by enzymes and microbial networks can be crucial because this can form the basis for development of tailored feed-type specific solutions for optimal digestion and animal performance.conflict of interestthe authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.referencesamerah a.m. romero l.f. awati a. and ravindran v. 2017 effect of exogenous xylanase amylase and pro- tease as single or combined activities on nutrient digestibility and growth performance of broilers fed corn soy diets.

poult sci epub ahead of print doi havenaar r. 2011 intestinal health functions of colonic microbial metabolites a review.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology microbial biotechnology 10 1008-1011butyricicoccus pullicaecorum reduces feed conversion and protects from potentially harmful intestinal microorganisms and necrotic enteritis in broilers.

to achieve this knowledge of the relationship between the taxonomic and func- tional microbiota composition and intestinal health is required.

drivers for the continuous improvements in performance param- eters include genetic selection for high-performing chicken lines technological developments in hatching and housing conditions feed optimization and manage- ment practices that support intestinal health.

2014. not only breakdown of substrates but also the end metabolic products that are produced during fermen- tation are of utmost importance as these metabolites for example short-chain fatty acids steer intestinal health russell et al.

as an example isolating and evaluating the behaviour of specific species in intestinal health models or studying their behaviour in vitro e.g.

this can add information on the functionality of a microbiota that is linked with intestinal health and ideally with per- formance.a particular challenge in determining the contributionof gut microbiota to poultry productivity is understanding the metabolic potential and role of species within the microbiota that have not been cultured and character- ized.

