2008 at the end of the 8-week period high fat fed rats exhibited whole body insulin resistance figure 2. in fact the decrease in plasma glucose concentration induced by a given dose of insulin was lower and the increase in plasma insulin induced by a given dose of glucose was higher in high fat fed rats compared to low fat fed rats figure 2. in both tests the treatment with 1x1010 cells of b. indicus hu16 was protective against the development of insulin resistance figure 2.eight weeks of high fat diet also elicited a significant increase in systemic inflammation markers lps and tnf-a as well as an increase in oxidative damage of plasma lipids and hepatic necrosis table 4. these metabolic derangements were prevented by the administration of a daily dose of 1x1010 cells of b. indicus hu16 table 4. oxidative stress was enhanced by eight weeks of high fat feeding in whole liver tissue and at the mitochondrial level table 4 but in this case the treatment of high fat fed rats with 1x1010 cells of b. indicus hu16 was protective table 4.eight weeks of treatment with hu16 cells did not affect the gut microbiota of high fat-fed ratsthe majority of the samples from high fat fed animals treated group 3 circles or not treated group 2 diamonds with hu16 cells clustered together while samples from two rats of each group were arranged separately figure 3. the mann-whitney u test performed on the pca scores did not identify any statistically significant difference between the two groups.

the cumulative change in plasma glucose after insulin injection assessed through the measurement of area under the curve indicated that after 4 weeks of dietary treatment high fat fed rats had already developed insulin resistance figure 1. the same effect was evident also in high fat fed rats treated with hu16 spores while those that had received hu16 cells exhibited a glucose response to insulin very similar to that of low fat fed ratsand were therefore protected by the diet-induced insulin resistance figure 1.since only cell-treated rats showed an improvement in glucose homeostasis compared to high fat fed rats the dietary treatment was continued up to 8 weeks only for low fat-fed group 1 high fat-fed group 2 and high fat-fed rats receiving b. indicus cells group 3.cells of bacillus indicus hu16 did not affect obesity markershigh fat dietary consumption sustained the development of diet-induced obesity as shown by 1 the significant increase in body weight and body lipids with a concomitant decrease in body water table 3 2 the altered plasma lipid profile with a significant increase in triglycerides cholesterol and nefa table 4 and 3 the increased deposition of triglycerides in the liver table 4. all these obesity markers were not affected by the daily treatment with 1x1010 cells of b. indicus hu16 table 3 and 4.figure 1. plasma glucose levels a and area under the curve auc b during insulin tolerance test after 4 weeks of dietary treatment in rats fed low fat diet high fat diet high fat diet  spores and high fat diet  cells.

denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis showed that the oral administration of hu16 cells did not significantly affect the gut microbiota of high fat-fed rats suggesting that the observed beneficial effects are not due to a reshaping of the gut microbiota but rather to metabolites produced by hu16 cells.keywords insulin resistance metabolic inflammation bacillus indicus hu16introductiondiet plays an important role in the aetiology and prevention of the risk factors for the metabolic syndrome o'keefe et al.

the composition of the two diets is shown in table 1.rats fed a high fat diet were subdivided into three groups each composed of 6 rats receiving each day by oral gavage 1 ml of a 10 sucrose solution alone group 2 or containing 1x1010 cells group 3 or 1x1010 spores group 4 of b. indicus hu16 table 2.during the treatments body weight food and water intake were monitored daily.

the mann- whitney u-test was applied to the pca scores in order to evaluate the effect of the oral administration of a daily dose of 1x1010 cells of b. indicus hu16 on gut microbiota of rats under a high fat diet.

2015. we observed by dgge analysis that the oral administration of a daily dose of 1x1010 cells of b. indicus hu16 to high fat fed rats did not significantly alter the microbial composition of the gut.

hepatic mitochondria isolated from rats fed a high fat diet showed a high degree of oxidative stress while in rats fed a high fat diet and supplemented with bacteria the degree of oxidative stress was found to be identical to that of rats fed low fat diet thus suggesting that bacterial supplementation exerts a protective role also on mitochondria.it is well established that the diet is a main factor involved in shaping the microbial composition of the gut de filippo et al.

cells of strain hu16 were able to reduce symptoms of metabolic syndrome plasma markers of inflammation and oxidative markers in plasma and liver to levels similar to those observed in rats under a standard diet.

parallel groups of animals under the same diet regimen also received a daily dose of 1x1010 cells or spores of b. indicus hu16.

1 ml aliquots each containing 1x1010 cells or spores suspended in a 10 vv sucrose solution were immediately frozen and kept at -20 degc until needed for the animal treatment.animals and treatmentsmale sprague-dawley rats 90-days old charles river italy were caged singly in a temperature-controlled room 23-1 degc with a 12 h lightdark cycle 06.30- 18.30. treatment housing and euthanasia of animals met the guidelines set by the italian health ministry.

at variance with results obtained with marine carotenoid fucoxanthin gammone and d'orazio 2015 simultaneousfigure 2. plasma glucose levels a and area under the curve auc b during insulin tolerance test plasma insulin levels c and area under the curve auc d during glucose tolerance test plasma glucose levels e and area under the curve auc f during glucose tolerance test after 8 weeks of dietary treatment in rats fed low fat diet high fat diet or high fat diet  cells.

in addition although plasma lipids were increased in high fat fed rats receiving bacterial cells this treatment abolished the increase in peroxidised lipids suggesting that thecondition of increased oxidative stress elicited by high fat diet is prevented by bacterial administration.

beneficial microbes 2017 85 823-831beneficial effects of carotenoid-producing cells of bacillus indicus hu16 in a rat model of diet-induced metabolic syndromecrescenzo1 a. mazzoli1 r. cancelliere1 a. bucci2 g. naclerio2 l. baccigalupi1 s.m.

cutting3 e. ricca1 and s. iossa11department of biology federico ii university via cintia 80126 naples italy 2department of biosciences and territory university of molise contrada fonte lappone 86090 pesche italy 3school of biological sciences royal holloway university of london bourne laboratories 4-26 egham surrey tw20 oex united kingdom  these authors contributed equally to this workabstractreceived 22 february 2017  accepted 8 may 2017c 2017 wageningen academic publishersresearch articlea well-established rat model of diet-induced metabolic syndrome was used to evaluate the effects of the oral administration of spores or cells of hu16 a carotenoid-producing strain of bacillus indicus.

hu16 cells did not affect obesity markers or the accumulation of triglycerides in the liver of treated animals.

