as reviewed by martin et al.

these shared features include plant symbiotic signaling pathways root colonization strategies and host-microbe interface formation and suggest a shared evolutionary origin martin et al.

furthermore analysis of transcriptomes and sequenced genomes of select198mycorrhiza 2018 28197-201green algae and basal land plants showed that a critical com- ponent of the amf signaling pathway a calcium- and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase predated the first land plants suggesting pre-adaptation for the symbiosis among some green algae delaux et al.

labs from china the uk germany france and the usa used gene expression and isotopic labelling studies on mutant and wild-type plants to demonstrate that amf are fatty acid auxotrophs that receive lipids from host plants in addition to sugars bravo et al.

jiang et al.

keymer et al.

luginbuehl et al.

for example a genome-wide association study was used to link differences among 94 genotypes of wheat triticum aestivum in root colonization by a mixture of several species of amf to six quantitative trait loci on three chromosomes lehnert et al.

similarly variation in the responsive- ness to amf inoculation by genotypes of maize zea mays was associated with extensive development of external hy- phae a specific group of phosphate transporters and high phosphorus uptake sawers et al.

among fungi a study of 56 amf isolates from five families demonstrated that the greatest differences in fungal morphology and growth oc- curred above the family level while the greatest differences in plant growth occurred in response to inoculation with iso- lates of the same amf species koch et al.

a meta- analysis of plant growth responses to amf provided some corroboration for these findings as plant performance was promoted by amf family richness but not by amf species richness yang et al.

a european-scale study of tuber aestivum using simple sequence repeat markers showed evi- dence of ecotypes and population expansion molinier et al.

several studies examined non-random allocation of resources to members of a common mycorrhizal network cmn in- cluding convincing demonstration that amf preferentially provide mineral nutrients to larger conspecific host individ- uals best able to provide them with fixed carbon weremijewicz et al.

pickles et al.

at an entirely different scale and with potentially far less preferential allocation 13c labeling of the canopies of 40 m tall norway spruce picea abies showed that cmns contributed to interspecific bi-directional transfer of fine root carbon between spruce and neighboring beech fagus sylvatica larch larix decidua and pine pinus sylvestris klein et al.

