Woodruff P. C. Avila L. C. Denlinger F. Holguin S. C. Lazarus N. Lugogo W. C. Moore S. P. Peters L. Que L. J. Smith C. A. Sorkness M. E. Wechsler S. E. Wenzel H. A. Boushey and Y. J. Huang.

Certain species of intestinal microbiota such as Bifidobacterium can induce apoptosis of mast cells thus preventing food allergy.Regulation of intestinal permeability to food allergensIn addition to the capacity of intestinal microbiota to pro- mote intestinal pTreg cells Clostridium species can lead to the production of IL-22 from RORgt type 3 innate lymphoid cells ILC3s and CD4 T cells in colonic LP.

Additionally comparative metagenomics during the onset of allergic disease can reveal inter-relationships among microbiota at different anatomic sites.As intestinal microbiota influences the pathogenesis ofmost allergic diseases studies on mutualistic interactions between host immune system and intestinal microbiota could reveal important regulatory mechanisms such as SCFAs which are an important links between host immune system diet and intestinal microbiota.

Hence 'hygiene hypothesis' has been introduced to propose that the imbalance towards TH2 responses due to reduced infectious burdens and subsequent reduction of TH1 responses causes allergic diseases 11.However many allergic diseases occur in the mucosal tissues harboring numerous species of the commensal microbiota and are closely associated with the compo- sitional changes of the commensal microbiota at affected mucosal tissues or in the intestine suggesting that commensal microbiota plays an important role in the pathogenesis of allergic diseases.

Tel 82-54-279-8727 Fax These authors contributed equally to this work.Abbreviations GF germ-free Ig Immunoglobulin TH T helper PAF platelet-activating factor AD Atopic dermatitis SCFAs Short-chain fatty acids CRS Chronic rhinosinusitis Treg cells Regulatory CD4 T cells CMA Cow's milk allergy IECs Intestinal epithelial cells pTreg peripheral Treg ROR RAR-related orphan Receptor ILCs Innate lymphoid cells SPF Specific pathogen-free DCs Dendritic cells MNP Mononuclear phagocytic tTreg thymus-derived Treg HDM House dust mitein recent years.

7 307ra152.Hevia A. C. Milani P. Lopez C. D. Donado A. Cuervo S.Gonzalez A. Suarez F. Turroni M. Gueimonde M. VenturaB.

It was previously reported that there were differences in lung microbiota between corticosteroids sensitive and resistant group suggesting that heterogeneity of asthma can affect lung microbiota as well 5354.Animal models for studying the role of airway micro-biota in allergic airway diseases are limited especially for allergic rhinitis or CRS but several studies by using asthma animal models revealed that the establishment of lung microbiota at early life is important for the prevention of asthma.

Several mechanistic issues for keeping allergic responses under control by intestinal microbiota still remains to be addressed but intestinal microbiota-mediated control of allergic diseases seems to be relevant to the capacity of intestinal immune system to generate tolerance rather than immunity and promote intestinal barrier functions.Intestine is the largest lymphoid organ where about 70 of immune cells in our body reside largely due to enormous antigenic burdens mostly derived from food and intestinal microbiota.

It is interesting that microbiota on the nasal cavity resembles microbiota on skin while microbiota on oropharynx resembles microbiota in oral cavity.

In this review we summarize current understanding of the relationship between commensal microbiota and allergy and revise 'hygiene hypothesis' by incorporating commensal microbiota as a pivotal contributing factor for allergic diseases.sKIN aND aIRway alleRgIC DIseases aND DysBIOsIs Of mICROBIOTaWith recent advances in next generation sequencing tech- nologies metagenomic analyses including a milestone study by the Human Microbiome Project Consortium have revealed that distinct communities of commensal microbiota exist at different mucosal tissues or even at different sites of same tissue depending on the environ- mental features 416 Fig.

