given their key role in c. difficile pathogenesis testing for the presence of toxins a and b is one of the methods used in conjunction with clinical signssymptoms to confirm c. difficile infection cdi with others including tests for c. difficile or its genes .in contrast to asymptomatic carriage of c. difficile a cdi can have varying clinical manifestations ranging from mild diarrhoea to colitis and may also include complica- tions such as toxic megacolon bowel perforation and even death  .

drugs 2017 771657-1663 doi 10.1007s40265-017-0809-ybezlotoxumab a review in preventing clostridium difficileinfection recurrenceemma d. deeks1published online 1 september 2017c springer international publishing ag 2017abstract bezlotoxumab zinplavatm is a fully human monoclonal antibody against clostridium difficile toxin b indicated for the prevention of c. difficile infection cdi recurrence in patients with a high recurrence risk.

further preclinical data indicate that damagesloughing of the gut epithelium mediated by c. difficile toxins during cdi may allow sys- temic anti-toxin antibodies such as bezlotoxumab to enter the gut and neutralize the c. difficile toxins within .despite mixed findings in animal models of cdi   bezlotoxumab administered as a single intra- venous 10 mgkg infusion reduced cdi recurrence in adults in two phase 3 trials modify 1 and 2 sect.

significantly fewer bezlotoxumab than placebo recipients in the mitt population of modify 1table 1 efficacy of a single intravenous infusion of bezlotoxumab 10 mgkg in preventing recurrence of c. difficile infection in adults receiving standard-of-care antibacterial therapy in phase 3 trials and their pooled analysis all pts received oral metronidazole vancomycin or fidaxomicin for their cdi the latter two drugs could also be used with intravenous metronidazole all endpoints were assessed during the 12-week period following antibacterial therapybez bezlotoxumab cdi clostridium difficile infection mitt modified intent-to-treat pl placebo pts patients p  0.005  p  0.001  p b 0.0001 vs. pla primary endpoint pts who had not achieved an initial clinical cure were imputed as successesb an initial clinical cure of baseline cdi i.e.

efficacy of bezlotoxumab the monoclonal antibody targeting c. difficile toxin b for pre- vention of c. difficile infection cdi recurrence in patients at high risk of recurrence or cdi-related adverse outcomes abstract no.

thus a single intravenous infusionof bezlotoxumab during soc antibacterial treatment for cdi is an emerging option for reducing cdi recurrence in adults at high risk of recurrence.introduction clostridium difficile is a spore-forming anaerobic bac-the manuscript was reviewed by j. m. blondeau department of clinical microbiology saskatoon health region and university of saskatchewan saskatoon canada c. feher department of infectious diseases hospital clinic of barcelona barcelona spain.terium responsible for most cases of infective diarrhoea in healthcare facilities  .

the infection is usually acquired via faecal-oral transmission of c. difficile spores which germinate into active cells capable of growing and colo- emma d. deeks 1 springer private bag 65901 mairangi bay 0754 auckland new zealandnizing the colon in susceptible individuals such as those whose protective intestinal microbiota has been depleted by antibacterial use  .

in the colon pathogenic strains of c. difficile secrete toxins the most well characterized1658e.

notably cdi-associated morbidity and mor- tality has increased globally in recent years due to the emergence of hypervirulent c. difficile strains particularly ribotype 027 also referred to as binap1  and a cdi that is mild or moderate can rapidly become fatal without prompt treatment .the mainstay treatment for cdi is antibacterial therapy with agents such as metronidazole vancomycin and fidax- omicin with the exact regimen and formulation depending on the cdi severity   .

recommended treatment options for recurrent cdi include the same antibacterials used for primary infections    with faecal microbiota transplantation fmt also a recommended option for per- sistent recurrence in the most recent guidelines   how- ever optimal management approaches for cdi recurrence remain unclear and the proportion of patients experiencing multiple recurrence events continues to rise .humoral immunity against c. difficile toxins plays an important role in protecting against primary symptomatic cdi and recurrence  providing rationale for the development of therapeutic anti-toxin antibodies for use in this setting.

bezlo- toxumab zinplavatm is a first-in-class fully human igg1 monoclonal antibody against c. difficile toxin b indicated in the eu  and usa  to reduceprevent cdi recurrence in adults receiving antibacterial treatment for cdi who have a high risk of recurrence.

this narrative review focuses on data relevant to the use of bezlotoxumab in this setting.pharmacodynamic properties of bezlotoxumabbezlotoxumab targets and binds to c. difficile toxin b neutralizing its activity directly half maximal effective concentration ec50 0.1 nmoll in vitro   .

bezlotoxumab binds to two epitopes within the combined repetitive oligopeptide domain of the toxin mean disso- ciation constants 19 and 370 pmoll in vitro causingpartial obstruction of some of the carbohydrate-binding pockets thought to be involved in binding toxin b to colonocytes .bezlotoxumab displays structural tolerance in its toxin b binding  and the region of its binding is conserved across known c. difficile strains  .

indeed bezlotoxumab neutralized toxin b from 81 clinical isolates of c. difficile from various countries and although its ec50 values against toxin b from ribotypes 027 and 078 were greater than those from other strains all values were considerably lower than the bezlotoxumab plasma concentrations seen up to 84 days post-infusion in clinical trials .

studies of purified toxin b preparations supported these findings with the neutral- ization potency of bezlotoxumab against toxin from strains 027 036 and 078 being lower than that from other strains ec50 130-960 vs. 1.7-5.2 ngml and correlating well with the drug's affinity for the toxins mean dissociation constants 173-300 vs. 4.4-62.3 ngml .by neutralizing c. difficile toxin b bezlotoxumab atten- uated pro-inflammatory and histological responses mediated by the toxin in vitro including the expression of tnfa and il-1b mrna andor protein in human peripheral blood monocytes and human colonic explants and damage of the epithelial tissue of colonic explants .

