ms a. the bifidobacterial strain also trended to reduce corticosterone concentrations basally in control mice compared to mice fed placebo in adulthood although differences were not statistically significant p  0.122 this could be an age-dependent down-regulation of the stress response mediated by the bifidobacteria a since this trend was not detected in juvenile mice b. physical immobiliza- tion was used as a model of acute stress to analyze whether responses varied in the different mouse groups.

pseudocatenulatum cect 7765 reduces ms-induced vulnerability to stress in adulthoodin order to test whether chronic stress induced by ms early in life had a long-lasting effect on the mouse's ability to cope with a new stressing event acute stress adult mice p41 were sub- jected to acute immobilization corticosterone concentrations were assessed before and after immobilization.

it should be noted however that only males were used in the present study in order to reduce variability in the behavioral responses since pre- vious studies indicate that ms produces stress in both male and female mice but with different intensity and performances in anx- iety tests  limiting to some extent the generalization of the main findings.intestinal dysbiosis has also been related to stress although dif- ferences varied depending on the study likely due to differences in the type of stress and experimental conditions the animal genetic background environmental factors diet contamination of animal facilities etc.

demonstrated that neonatal colonization of germ-free mice with enteropathogenic escherichia coli favored the exaggerated hpa-axis stress responses seen in germ-free mice whereas colonization with a strain of bifidobacterium infantis or specific pathogen-free feces from control animals during infancy down-regulated the hpa axis hyperactivity against restraint stress in adulthood.

pseudocatenulatum cect 7765 administration to ms mice attenuated some of the effects of the exaggerated stress response of the hpa axis in this regard it tended to reduce the increased basal corticosterone concentration in juvenile mice and signifi- cantly reduced the overproduction of corticosterone at baseline and in response to subsequent acute stress in adulthood.

serum levels of il-18 were significantly reduced in b. pseudocatenulatum cect 7765-fed ms mice compared with placebo-fed ms mice p  0.013 in which il-18 tended to increaseas a consequence of chronic stress induced by ms p  0.078 con- trol versus ms. in the small intestine ms increased ifn-c p  0.012 and il-10 p  0.025 concentrations compared to con- trol mice suggesting the induction of a th1-type stress-associated inflammatory response and the simultaneous activation of regulatory mechanisms mediated by il-10 to attenuate the inflammatory tone presumably this could partially be a secondarypostnatal day 21controlmsb.p.b.p.msa20151050p21p40b 86420corticosterone p21c800.0070.0036040200adrenaline p21de3 0.040 0.048826412000.0010.076f 1086420fig.

pseudocatenulatum cect 7765 reduced ms-induced catecholaminergic hyperactivity but induced no changes in immune markers in adulthoodmice subjected to ms during early life exhibited clear cate- cholaminergic hyperactivity in the hypothalamus in adulthood reflected in increased concentrations of da p  0.029 na p  0.004 and a p  0.016 in ms mice compared to control mice d-f. b. pseudocatenulatum cect 7765 administration to ms mice during the early postnatal period reduced all catecholamine concentrations in the hypothalamus compared to ms mice fed pla- cebo showing the most significant effects on na p  0.011 and to a lesser extent in a p  0.046 in adulthood.

corticosterone concentration in stools was determined as a marker of the response to stress as described below.corticosterone analysiscorticosterone concentrations were determined in stool sam- ples taken after ms chronic stress at p21 and before and after 3 h after applying acute stress at p41.

only statistically significant differences are shown as determined by anova p  0.050 with bonferroni's post hoc test p  0.050 the p-values of the post hoc test are shown.in the ms group compared to the control group not exposed to ms p  0.029 indicating that chronic stress during early life has long-lasting effects in adulthood and could increase sensitivity to stress triggering an over-response b. the administration of the bifidobacteria also reduced this stress marker in response to a new acute stressful event particularly in the ms group p  0.050.b.

chronic stress also appeared to reduce the ability of glucocorti- coids to downregulate the mln-induced inflammatory response.we observed that corticosterone reduced both the lps and the cona induced ifn-c secretion in mln cells from control mice whereas in ms mice the anti-inflammatory role of corticosteronewas only significant in lps-stimulated mln cells .

3. effects of b. pseudocatenulatum cect 7765 administration to mice subjected to chronic stress induced by maternal separation ms or to control mice on ex vivo production of ifn-c by mlns under different stimuli at p21.

4. effects of b. pseudocatenulatum cect 7765 administration to mice subjected to chronic stress induced by maternal separation ms or to control mice during early life until p21 in adulthood p41.

using a different animal model reported that monocol- onization of germ-free mice with b. infantis or with stools from specific-pathogen-free mice in early life also reduced the increasedtable 3blast-based taxonomy identification of otus associated with stress induced by maternal separation ms.1 ncbi-based taxonomy classification of species presented as top hits.

these effects have along-term impact on the central nervous system cns of adult mice since ms mice fed b. pseudocatenu- latum cect 7765 showed lower anxiety levels than placebo-fed ms mice as well as normal neurotrans- mitter levels in the hypothalamus.

b. pseudocatenulatum cect 7765 administration attenuated some aspects of the excessive ms-induced stress response of the hypothala mic-pituitary-adrenal hpa axis particularly corticosterone production at baseline and in response tosubsequent acute stress in adulthood.

