In this context the infant gut microbiota that displays a cluster 3 profile is associated with a lower risk of adiposity in later life .Environmental influences on gut microbiota assembly of infantsAn important external factor that influences the develop- ment of the infant gut microbiota is the mother herself.

Thus it is considered that external factors may substantially influence the infant gut microbiota although such effects may nonetheless be subtle yet impactful .Key features of the infant gut microbiotaIt has been shown that the microbiota residing in the infant gut is very different to that identified in the adult gut .

Nevertheless this process is believed to take several years and events such as hormonal changes during puberty or modifications in eating habits may affect the microbiota structure  .During gut microbiota establishment the first microbial actors that render the gastro intestinal environment fully anaerobic are facultative anaerobes which include several members of the Enterobacteriaceae family  .

Disruption of the early gut microbiota through antibiotic therapy   or having followed a dif- ferential trajectory in gut microbiota acquisition following caesarian delivery   are two events that are linked to increased adiposity in later life.

Nevertheless at 1 year of age significant phylogenetic differences are found although substantial similarities between predicted microbiota func- tions between mother and child are still present .The gestation time is another important factor in shap- ing the infant gut microbiota.

However in pre-term infants the delivery mode does not appear to influence the gut microbiota composition of the newborn  .In addition delayed gut colonization in caesarian-deliv- ered infants seems to occur for certain bacterial groups including members of the genera Bifidobacterium and Bac- teroides .Another key factor that has a marked impact on shap- ing the neonatal gut microbiota is the type of feeding for a review see .

Similarly comparisons have been made between the faecal microbiota of children from different geographical regions such as Amerindians vs Malawians and North Americans which revealed that the microbiota very much depends on the immediate environment as well as the diet .

Nevertheless as described above there are contradic- tory published data about this topic that will require addi- tional analyses.Bifidobacteria and the gut microbiota of infantsAs outlined above bifidobacteria are one of the most com- mon inhabitants of the infant gut microbiota          .

Overall the gut microbiota of infants due to dietary modifications was shown to be more stable and homogenous after weaning becoming more similar to the typical adult microbiota .Notably the switch from an infant to an adult gut micro- biota which happens as mentioned above between 1 and 2 years of age is characterized by a high abundance of B. breve although the particular reasons for this abundance are unknown .The proportional abundance of bifidobacteria in the human colon declines as the host ages Fig.

Preliminary information suggests this predictive importance of the gut microbiota with regards to gut-related diseases and particularly how early microbiota composition is linked to long-lasting effects on health and disease .

