lfd mice fed with a 10 fat-containing low-fat diet for 10 weeks hfd mice fed with a 60 fat-containing hfd for 10 weeks hfd 38 mice fed with a 60 fat- containing diet for 10 weeks in the presence of im38 1 x 109 cfumouse for 6 weeks after being fed with hfd for 4 weeks.

lfd mice fed with a 10 fat-containing low-fat diet for 10 weeks hfd mice fed with a 60 fat-containing hfd for 10 weeks hfd 38 mice fed with a 60 fat-containing diet for 10 weeks in the presence of im38 1 x 109 cfumouse for 6 weeks after being fed with hfd for 4 weeks.

lfd mice fed with a 10 fat-containing lfd for 10 weeks hfd mice fed with a 60 fat-containing hfd for 10 weeks hfd 38 mice fed with a 60 fat-containing diet for 10 weeks in the presence of im38 1 x 109 cfumouse for 6 weeks after being fed with hfd for 4 weeks.

to evaluate the anti-inflammatory effect of probiotics macrophages 1 x 106 cellswell were treated with lps 100 ngml in the absence or presence of probiotics 1 x 103 or 1 x 105 cfuml for 90 minutes for nf-kb or 24 hours for tnf and il-1b.preparation of mice with hfd-fed obesityafter 1 week of acclimation mice were randomly divided into 3 groups ld hd and hdb of 8 mice each.

hfd significantly increased the blood lps level as previously reported whereas im38 reduced hfd-induced blood lps level p  .05.im38 attenuated hfd-induced colitis in micehfd is a causative factor in the etiology of colitis .

hfd treatment significantly increased lps levels whereas im38 treatment significantly decreased hfd-induced lps production p  .05.therefore we suggested that suppression of lps-induced gastrointestinal inflammation by probiotics might decrease the occurrence of obesity and colitis.

neverthe- less the relationship among obesity colitis and gut microbiota lps has not been studied thoroughly.in the present study we found that hfd consumption increased obesity colonic inflammation and lps production in gut microbiota.

therefore further research on hfd-induced lps-producing bacteria and the precise mechanism of im38- mediated inhibition of lps production and nf-kb activation is necessary.in conclusion hfd treatment altered the profiles of gut microbiota and lps levels which are positively associated with obesity and colitis.

however when mice were fed hfd for 4 weeks and treated thereafter with im38 plus hfd for 6 weeks their whole-body and epididymal fat pad weight gains were reduced comparedfig.

p  .05 vs hfd group.with those of mice fed with hfd alone.

genomic dna was extracted from the colonic fluid of mice treated with lfd hfd or hfd  im38 and analyzed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction.

therefore we hypothesize that the use of probiotics inhibits the inflammatory response and lps production by gut microbiota will decrease the occurrence of colitis and obesity.to test our hypothesis we isolated bifidobacteria fromhuman fecal microbiota and measured their inhibitory effects on nf-kb activation in lps-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and caco-2 cells and assayed the effect of selected im38 against ecoli growth and lps production.

furthermore im38 decreased the hfd-induced il- 17 levels but increased hfd-suppressed il-10 levels.im38 reduced hfd-induced proteobacteria population and decreased lps production of gut microbiota in mice with hfd-induced obesityhfd increased the ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes and elevated lps production in the gut microbiota .

when mice were fed hfd for 10 weeks their whole body and epididymal fat pad weight gains were significantly increased compared with those of mice fed with lfd .

however germ-free mice do not become obese upon consuming hfd compared with conventional mice .

