in recurrent clostridium difficile infections fmt had a higher cure rate than standard antibiotic treatment 14 and previous reports showed that fmt might restore intestinal microbial balance in human diseases 15.to date few studies have evaluated whether fmt is effective in ibs patients 16. furthermore recent reports showed that the intestinal microbiome in the japanese population is considerably different from those of other populations 17. we already safely conducted fmt for japanese patients with ulcerative colitis 18. to clarify the efficacy of fmt in japanese patients with ibs we performed a single-arm open-label non-randomized study of fmt with metagenomic and psychological analyses.materials and methodsethicsthe ethics committee at keio university school of medicine approved the protocol 20130488 and all participants provided written informed consent.

one placebo-controlled rct of fmt in metabolic syndrome patients showed that insulin sensitivity was significantly increased after fmt 28. moreover another group performed a pilot study of fmt in 4 patients with acute graft-vs.-host disease receiving bone marrow transplantation 29. previous studies showed that changes in intestinal microbiota altered patients' psychiatric status 30 and modulation of the relationship between stress and intestinal microbiota composition altered brain functions 31. a recent study suggested that bifidobacterium counts in the gut microbiota of patients with major depressive disorder were significantly decreased compared with those of healthy volunteers 32. a randomized controlled trial was conducted on the effect of probiotics on the neurophysiological parameters of patients with autism spectrum disorders 33. there have also been some case reports of fmt for neurogenic disorders 34. our results suggested that fmt for ibs patients has the potential to improve their psychiatric status.

the metagenomic analysis in this study revealed that 1 the decreased diversity of microbiota in patients before fmt was recovered to the level of the donor after fmt and 2 the efficacy of fmt was clearly dependent on the status of increased actinobacteria phylum especially bifidobacterium genus in donor feces but not on changes in the composition of patient microbiota before or after fmt.

3b.these results suggest that fmt has a therapeutic effect for ibs patients' psychiatric status irrespective of the presence or absence of stool abnormalities but the effect may not be sustained for 12 weeks.discussionthis open-label pilot study demonstrated that fmt for patients with ibs was conducted safe and relatively effective 6 of 10 patients recovered to types 3-4 of stool score at 4 weeks after fmt.

surprisingly we also found that fmt significantly improved the psychological status after fmt irrespective of ibs responders and non-responders.this is the first study to analyze the composition of intestinal microbiota in donors and patients and the change in microbiota composition before and after fmt in ibs patients.

the therapeutic effect of fmt on patients with psychological disorders was sustained for a limited time up to 4 weeks after fmt and the abundance of bifidobacterium tended to decrease from 4 to 12 weeks after fmt online suppl.

a ham-d score of patients at baseline and at 4 and 12 weeks after fmt in 8 patients left in responders n  5 and right non-responders n  3. b ham-a score of patients at baseline and at 4 and 12 weeks after fmt in 8 patients left responders n  5 and right non-responders n  3. c gastrointestinal symptoms evaluated in ham-a of patients at baseline and 12 weeks after fmt in 8 patients left responders n  5 and right non-responders n  3.

the diversity of patients 4 weeks after fmt increased significantly compared with patients before fmt and that of responding patients was significantly higher than non-responder patients.

psychiatric status was assessed using the hamilton rating scale for depression ham-d and hamilton anxiety rating scale ham-a respectively bywell-trained psychologist andor psychiatrist in a blinded manner 22 23. the study procedure is shown in figure .fecal sample collectionfecal samples were longitudinally collected from patients at weeks 0 4 and 12 after fmt and from donors on the day of fmt.

figure shows that the abundance of bifidobacterium in patients did not recover to the levels of donors at 4 weeks after fmt in responders while the abundance of bifidobacterium in donors was significantly higher than in patients at baseline p  0.02. there was no significant difference among the 3 groups in the non-responders.changes in the abundance of bifidobacterium demonstrated an upward trend after fmt in responders but were not seen in non-responders online suppl.

2c.these results indicated that the abundance of the genus bifidobacterium in donor feces was related to the therapeutic efficacy of fmt but the increase in bifidobacterium in patients did not correlate with the therapeutic efficacy of fmt.fmt improved psychiatric status and abdominal symptom in both responders and non- responderspatients with ibs often suffer from psychiatric symptoms 24. thus ham-d before and at 4 and 12 weeks after fmt was assessed.

the number of enrolled patient was small but sufficient for the first registered trial to evaluate the efficacy of fmt in addition to the safety profile in ibs patients.in this study we attempted to extend the application of fmt for intractable intestinal diseases.

surprisingly the ham-d score was decreased in 7 of 8 patients at 4 weeks after fmt irrespective of whether they responded to fmt.

notably bifidobacterium-rich donor feces may stimulate minor strains of the patient microbiota growth that were undetectable before fmt to increase their diversity after fmt.

a comparison of 7 fecal bacteria at the phylum level in effective donors n  6 ineffective donors n  4 and all patients n  10. b abundance of actinobacteria in donors and patients before and at 4 and 12 weeks after fmt in responders n  6 and non-responders n  4. c comparison of the top 7 fecal bacteria at the genus level in effective donors n  6 ineffective donors n  4 and all patients n  10. d abundance of bifidobacterium in donors and patients before and at 4 and 12 weeks after fmt in responders n  6 and non-responders n  4. average otu abundance is shown for each group.

