a p-value of less than 0.05 was used as significant in all cases.resultslipopolysaccharide induces cell shedding from small intestinal villi in a dose-dependent mannercaspase-3 is activated in iecs during their extrusion from the tips of small intestinal villi similar to previous reports we found that control c57 bl6 mice receiving ip pbs injection showed low levels of cell shedding as evi- denced by low level expression of cleaved caspase-3 cc3 in the epithelial cell layer a. recent studies have demonstrated that following ip injection of mice with lps isolated from escherichia coli 0111b4 a potent cell shedding response is induced similar to that observed in relapsing ibd patients in agreement with these studies we found a significant increase in cc3-mediated cell shedding at 1.5 h post-injection of 1.25 mg kg21 lps not only at the villus tip but also along the shoulders and sides of the villus b. effects of lps on the cell shedding response were found to be dose-dependent in agreement with previous observations data not shown.bifidobacterium breve modulates lipopolysaccharide-induced cell sheddingvarious members of the microbiota are known to promote a healthy gut  although the precise mechanisms behind this remain incompletely understood.

mice were then administered lps to induce pathological cell shedding followed by sacrifice at 1.5 h. following dosing with b. breve ucc2003 and inductionof cell shedding with lps mice showed a marked reduction in the levels of cc3-positive shedding cells compared with lps- treated control mice receiving pbs gavage ab.

control mice received oral gavage of pbs only.lipopolysaccharide injections and tissue collectionstwenty-four hours after the last doses of b. breve or pbs con- trol mice received an ip injection of 1.25 mg kg21 lps from escherichia coli 0111b4 sigma or sterile saline control and mice were sacrificed 1.5 h post-challenge with lps.

thus to determine whether the cell shedding outcome as modulated by b. breve was caused by reduced expression of tnf-a from macrophages we isolated rna and protein from whole small intestine of control and b. breve ucc2003- treated c57 bl6 mice following lps-mediated induction of cell shedding.

pbs e. taken together these data indicate that functional myd88 signalling potentially via tlr2 is required for modulating the protective effect of b. breve against cell shedding outcomes.bifidobacterium breve exopolysaccharide plays a role in modulating protection against lipopolysaccharide-induced cell sheddingrecently a number of functions modulated by bifidobacteria have been shown to be mediated through surface-associated eps including resistance to gut infection interestingly the eps gene clusters represent a relatively conserved feature of bifidobacterial genomes including those of the species b. breve in order to investigate the role of eps in modulat- ing the response against cell shedding we used a deletion mutant b. breve ucc2003-epsdel that expresses neither eps1 nor eps2 mice were stably colonized by dosing with b. breve eps-positive or eps-negative strains followed by challenge with lps electronic supplementary material figure s1.

our studies with confocal endomicroscopy of patients with ibd in clinical remission have demonstrated that those patients with high rates of cell shedding are more likely to relapse than those with low shedding rates demonstrating a causative link between barrier function and the inflammatory response .given reports of beneficial effects of certain members of the gut microbiota in ibd and potential roles of microbial dysbiosis in these diseases we hypothesized that certain health- promoting microbiota members including bifidobacterium may play a role in protecting against the cell shedding response by modulating iec function.

to determine the contribution of bifidobacteria in cell shedding we employed a well character- ized in vivo mouse model in which pathological cell shedding is induced by intraperitoneal ip administration of lipopoly- saccharide lps driving mononuclear cell expression of tnf-a and subsequent caspase-3-positive shedding cells .

we thus used epithelial- specific vil-cre myd88 knockout mice to determine whether b. breve elicits its protective effects via epithelial tlr signalling pathways.c57 bl6 myd8822 villin-cre mice i.e.

breve ucc2003-colonized mice when compared with control mice i.e.

ab iec myd88thth mice and cd iec myd8822 mice were gavaged with pbs control orb.

breve ucc2003 and b. breve ucc2003-del-colonized mice which suggests eps does not play a key role via tnf-r1.to delineate these protective luminal bifidobacterial- epithelial interactions we used epithelial-specific myd88 ko mice myd88 is a key adaptor protein downstream of microbe-tlr signalling.

furthermore we observed significant increases in iec tlr2 expression in b. breve ucc2003-colonized mice e.interestingly previous work has indicated that tlr2 may 9 enhance zo-1 associated intestinal epithelial barrier integrity  and other studies indicate that mice deficient in myd88 signalling have increased susceptibility to intestinal inflam- mation .

further evidence of an eps-specific mechanism attenuat- ing epithelial apoptosis comes from the observation that bad cycs casp4 traf5 and tnfr9 are upregulated in the intestinal mucosa of mice colonized by b. breve ucc2003-del compared with b. breve ucc2003-colonized mice.

a representative picture for each group is shown 12 mice per group two independent experiments.ac 60504030b2010005101520253035404550cell position from villus tipfigure 2. bifidobacterium breve ucc2003 protects against lps-induced cell shedding.

cell count analysis confirmed significant reduction  p  0.01 in cell shedding at the majority of positions along the length of the villus in b. breve ucc2003-treated mice c. thusb.

