lyophilized bifidobacterium species including bifidobacterium bifidum bifidobacterium longum bifidobacterium lactis and bifidobacterium breve seeking health were resuspended in pbs.

importantly recent studies have indicated that bifidobacterium species promote an- titumor response in pd-l1 blockade by augmenting dendritic cell function 6. thus it would be valuable to explore the role of bifidobacterium in the combined blockade of the ctla-4 and pd-1 pathways.

for the tumor model bifidobacterium was given at 7 and 14 d following tumor inoculation.quantification of bifidobacterium by qpcr assay.

taqman-targeted qpcr was applied using primers and probesspecific for bifidobacterium bifid forward cgggtgagtaatgcgtgacc bifid reverse tgataggacgcgacccca and probe 6fam-ctcctggaaacgggtg.the relative abundance of bifidobacterium was normalized by primers and probe targeting all bacteria all bacteria forward cggtgaatacgttc- ccgg all bacteria reverse tacggctaccttgttacgactt and probe 6fam-cttgtacacaccgcccgtc.serum cytokine measurement.

bifidobacterium can mitigate intestinal immunopathology in the context of ctla-4 blockadefeng wangab1 qian yinc liang chenc and mark m. davisbcd1acenter for microbiota and immunological diseases shanghai general hospital shanghai institute of immunology shanghai jiao tong university school of medicine shanghai 200025 china bhoward hughes medical institute stanford university school of medicine stanford ca 94305 cinstitute for immunity transplantation and infection stanford university school of medicine stanford ca 94305 and ddepartment of microbiology and immunology stanford university school of medicine stanford ca 94305contributed by mark m. davis november 13 2017 sent for review july 24 2017 reviewed by jeffrey j. molldrem and david m. sansomantibodies that attenuate immune tolerance have been used to effectively treat cancer but they can also trigger severe autoim- munity.

we then found that a commonly used probiotic bifidobacte- rium could largely rescue the mice from immunopathology without an apparent effect on antitumor immunity and this effect may be dependent on regulatory t cells.probiotics  bifidobacterium  ctla-4  immune checkpoint blockade  intestinal immunopathologyancer immunotherapy has focused on harnessing the host immune system to stimulate an antitumor response.

p  0.05 and p  0.01.has been suggested as an effective treatment for inflammatory bowel disease 11-16. indeed quantitative pcr qpcr analy- ses targeting bifidobacterium species showed that the administra- tion of vancomycin decreased the abundance of these species to an undetectable level fig.

to test whether this loss of bifido- bacterium strains or others contributed to the severe colitis we obtained a commercially available mixture of four bifidobacterium species and administered this mixture to mice via oral gavage before the induction of dss colitis.

this bifidobacterium treat- ment resulted in a 10-fold increase in the relative abundance of these bacteria in feces fig.

3a.in our ctla-4 blockade condition bifidobacterium treatmentresulted in substantially less weight loss the average weight of vancomycin-treated mice improved from 75 of their initial weight in the dss plus anti-ctla-4 group to 95 in the bifi- dobacterium group on day 8 after dss administration fig.

mice treated with both bifidobacterium and vancomycin exhibited less weight loss than control mice fig.

3b yellow and pink lines suggesting that bifidobacterium treatment ameliorated the immunopathology associated with ctla- 4 blockade by helping to rescue vancomycin-induced gut dys- biosis.

consistent with this assessment he staining of colon sections revealed that bifidobacterium treatment resulted in a reduced histopathological score with partial restoration of the colon structure and less leukocyte infiltration into gut tissue fig.

3 c and d. bifidobacterium treatment also decreased serumlevels of the inflammatory cytokines kc il-6 and cfs3 in colitic mice fig.

interestingly we found that the protective effect of bifidobacterium feeding was abrogated in regulatory t cell treg-depleted mice fig.

