openreceived 23 january 2017accepted 06 march 2017published 03 april 2017bifidobacterium in the gut microbiota confer resilience to chronic social defeat stress in micechunyangyuko fujita qian ren min ma chao dong  kenji hashimotoaccumulating evidence suggests that abnormalities in the composition of the gut microbiota may play a role in the pathogenesis of depression.

accumulating evidence suggests that the brain acts on gastrointestinal and immune functions that have inherent assistance in shaping the gut's microbial compositionand that gut microbes could affect host brain functions by producing and secreting substances consisting of neurotransmitters and metabolites.

however there are no reports showing the role of gut microbiota in stress resilience.therefore the present study was undertaken to examine whether the composition of gut microbiota in the feces of resilient and susceptible mice after csds is altered.

indeed the crosstalk between the gut and brain is predominately influenced by the gut bacteria.

although approximately 30 mice are resilient to chronic social defeat stress csds the role of gut microbiota in this stress resilience is unknown.

using 16s rrna analysis we examined the composition of gut microbiota in feces from control resilient andsusceptible mice.

however the precise underlying mechanisms of stress resilience in psychiatric disorders such as depression remain obscure.the gut-microbiota-brain axis consists of bidirectional communication between the gut and brain.

recent advancements in the alleviation of psychiatric diseases by optimizing the composition of the gut microbiota have attracted attention.

dysbiosis in the gut may be implicated in the development or exacerbation of depression.

antidepressants have pharmacological properties that exert beneficial effects by improving gut microbiota.we previously reported that neurological processes including glutamatergic and g-aminobutyric acid gaba ergic neurotransmissions brain-derived neurotrophic factor dendritic spine density peripheral interleukin-6 il-6 keap1-nrf2 system and soluble epoxide hydrolase may confer stress resilience in learned helplessness and chronic social defeat stress csds models.

feces from all mice were collected on day 12. control n 8 susceptible n 8 and resilient n 6 mice were used for subsequent analysis of composition of gut microbiota.

these results sug- gest that the intake of bifidobacterium may prevent the onset of depression-like phenotypes susceptibility in mice after csds.discussionthe major findings of this study are as follows first stress resilience after csds may be associated with the emergence of bifidobacterium in the host gut.

moreover bifidobacterium may produce short-chain fatty acids to decrease the gut ph form biological barriers and secrete anti-microbial compounds to attenuate harmful bacteria.

postnatal stress such as mother-child separation caused an altered composition of microbiota and decreased bifidobacterium levels in the gut of rhesus monkeys.

collectively these findings suggest that reduced com- position of bifidobacterium in the gut may accelerate the onset of depression.in this study we did not detect bifidobacterium in control or susceptible mice because of the detection lim- its of the assay.

