Taurocholic acid TA an amino acid-conjugated bile acid induces germination of C. difficile spores and deoxycholic acid a secondary bile acid inhibits C. difficile growth Sorg and Sonenshein 2008Fig.

The bile acids of taurocholic acid TCA cholic acid CA deoxycholic acid DCA and taurodeoxycholic acid TDCA Sigma-Aldrich were added to cultures at final concentra- tions of 0.1 0.01 and 0.001 in deionized water.

The primary bile acid CA is converted to the secondary bile acid DCA by the bacterial enzyme bile acid 7a-dehydroxylase.

TCA taurocholic acid CA cholic acid TDCA taurodeoxy- cholic acid DCA deoxycholic acid.as follows 2 min denaturation at 94degC followed by 35 cycles of 94degC for 20 sec 52degC for 30 sec and 69degC for 90 sec and a 10 min extension at 68degC.

TCA taurocholic acid CA cholic acid TDCA taurode- oxycholic acid DCA deoxycholic acid.cone 40 source offset 80 desolvation temperature 250degC cone gas flow 50 Lh desolvation gas flow 600 Lh nebu- liser gas flow 6.5 Bar.The measurement of supernatant metabolites was per- formed in positive ionization mode and MSE scan mode using the same column and UPLC conditions.

Conjugated bile acids are converted to free bile acids including cholic acid CA and deoxy- cholic acid DCA by bacterial bile salt hydrolase BSH.

CA and DCA are reabsorbed and converted to taurocholic acid TCA and taurodeoxycholic acid TDCA respectively in the liver.Buffie et al.

The analysis conditions for chro- matography were as follows mobile phase A water with 0.1 formic acid mobile phase B acetonitrile with 0.1 formic acid injection volume 10 ml.

P-value of  0.05 by t-test and two-way ANOVA with Tukey's test was considered to in- dicate statistical significance.ResultsGrowth of C. difficile with various compositions of bile acidsVegetative C. difficile ATCC 43255 and KCTC 5009 cells were treated with amino acid-conjugated bile acids TCA and TDCA a primary bile acid CA and a secondary bile acid DCA Figs.

However this growth promoting effect of Bacte- roides strains in C. difficile KCTC 5009 strain was eliminated after addition of bile acids during Bacteroides culture.Effects of cholestyramine on C. difficile inhibition by B. ovatusin the presence of bile acidsCholestyramine a bile acid sequestrant was used to confirm the inhibitory effect of B. ovatus was bile acid dependent using C. difficile ATCC 43255 Fig.

