The use of sodium hydroxide and sodium sulfite in the pulping process to dissolve lignin and hemicelluloses contributes to the excess pH and sulfate levels whereas the release of lignin and its derivatives after bleaching process elevates the COD level of the effluent Singhal et al.

Increased supply of readily metab- olizable carbon sources stimulates ligninolytic system in fungi and catalyzes the lignin degradation process Hammerli et al.

Low amount of nitrogen stimulates the production of ligninolytic enzymes and quickens lignin degrada- tion whereas reduced substrate degradation and re- strained fungal growth have been reported when excess nitrogen was added Mantovani et al.

A fungal metabolite mediates degradation of nonphenolic lignin structures and synthetic lignin by laccase.

The pulping process results in dissolved forms of lignin and other wood com- ponents called black liquor Paliwal et al.

lignin and manganese peroxidases LiP MnP and laccases Lac attack a wide range of complex com- pounds and nullify substrate diffusion limitation as com- pared to bacteria Gianfreda and Rao  Kamitsuji et al.

These enzymes play a concur- rent task in the medium attacking a wide range of pollutants through the different mechanisms such as LiP and MnP degrading lignin and phenolic and non- phenolic units by oxidative depolymerization due to high redox potential whereas Lac uses molecular oxygen to oxidize aromatic compounds Dashtban et al.

Thecompounds at RTs 9.46 10.91 and 21.18 were ter- penes which are generally produced from pulp and paper mill during the cooking of softwood chips Grant and Grant  mono-terpenoids terpene al- cohol found in higher plants and low-molecular- weight derivatives of lignin Chandra et al.

c. The low molecular weight alkane com- pounds such as 1-3-dimethyl benzene RT 6.24 2- chloro-3-methyl butane RT 9.46 heptadecane RT 19.24 phytane RT 20.45 and eicosane RT 22.38 tetracontane RT 28.45 and acidic compounds such as acetic acid RT 8.18 pentadecanoic acid RT 22.06 and 1-2-benzene dicarboxylic acid RT - 27.25 were identified in the treated effluent sample Table  which can be assigned to degraded lignin and phenolic compounds as reported earlier Raj et al.

However diisobutyl phthalate was not able to degrade by fungi which determines its recalcitrant nature and was earlier reported as a low-molecular- weight derivative of lignin Chandra et al.

