air bubbles remove bacteria from a surface when the three-phase line separating the liquid the air and the solid surface contacts the cells.the capillary action of moving air-liquid interfaces is known to cause colloidal aggrega- tionand to generate forces that tend to detach bacteria from surfaces in a broad range of environments including in the oral cavity during eating speaking drinking and swallowingin the eye and on contact lenses during blinkingand on rocks and ship hulls in aquatic systems.however previous research on biofilm detachment by air bubbles has focused on endpoint measurements to quantify the net amount of biofilm removed whereas the mode of biofilm disruption has remained unexplored.

for 4 h-old biofilms the long bubble reduced the surface coverage within patches by nearly two thirds from 31.6 -2.4 to 12.7 -0.6. for 8 h-old biofilms the reduction in surface coverage caused by the bubble was considerably smaller from 44.6 -0.9 to 38.7 -2.5 while for 12 h-old biofilms the reduction was essentially negligible from 49.5 -2.3 to 47 -2.4 and the bubble produced no visible change of the biofilm structure.

g surface coverage fraction of the surface of a hydrophobic patch covered by bacteria before black and after gray the passage of a bubble for biofilms of different age 4 h 8 h 12 h. the red curve right axis shows the fractal dimension of the cell distribution measured before top red curve and after bottom red curve the passage of a bubble.

although the evaporation of the thin liquid layer occurs regardless of the density of bacteria on the surface this mechanism only works at intermediate adhesion strengths 8 h-old biofilm on the hydro- phobic patch whereas for younger biofilms cells are swept away and for older biofilms the capillary force is insufficient to scrape cells across the surface.

however the results reported here add a new dimension to our understanding of biofilm disruption because they demonstrate that an environment in which a surface is initially uniformly colonized--which is different from the trail networks driven by twitching motility--can in fact hide an underlying structure that controls the effect of a mechanical insult on surface colonization.

biofilms account for the largest fraction of bacterial biomass on the planet and often have deleterious effects in natural industrial and medical settings.in the environment biofilms can mobilize heavy metals such as mercury and arsenic causing stream or soil contamination.in industrial processes the formation of biofilms is responsible for huge economic losses in the billions of dollars yearly resulting from biofouling and biocorrosionwhich leads to equipment clogging and damage and product contamination.in medicine biofilms represent the major source of infections associated with catheters and implanted devices.despite the importance of finding effective methods for biofilm removal in these and other applications our understanding of biofilm development and in particular of the mechanisms responsible for biofilm detachment remains far from complete.detachment refers to the release of bacterial cells or clusters from the surface of the biofilm into the bulk fluid.

over the course of a few hours p. aeruginosa cells progressively covered the surface of the hydrophobic patches.

while some bacteria attached to the surface outside of the patches most bacteria adhered onto the patches where cell adhesion was greatly favored by the substrate's strong hydrophobicity.

b. image analysis showed that holes which varied in shape but displayed no obvious asymmetry associated with the flow direction had an equivalent radius of 6.5-8 um and the surface porosity of the end-state biofilm was 68. this pattern was highly consistent among different patches within the same microchannel and among replicate experiments.

moreover a chemical analysis of the surface using scanning electron microscopy coupled with energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy semedx showed that the ots coating was stable even under high shear flows and confirmed that the holes in the biofilm resulted from the detachment of bacteria rather than the detachment of the underlying ots layer supplementary fig.

g. taken together these measurements indicate that a long air bubble largely removed 4 h-old biofilms primarily rearranged cells in 8 h-old biofilms without detaching them and had little effect on 12 h-old biofilms.imaging of the hole formation dynamics at high temporal resolution 50 frames s-1 revealed that the hole pattern resulted from the rupturing of the residual thin liquid film between the channel surface and the bubble at discrete locations.

supplementary video 1. a long air bubble traveling over a solid surface remains separated from it by a thin layer of liquid whosebiofilm disruption by an air bubble h jang et al.3a4 h8 h12 hg 6021.8401.61.4201.2104812biofilm growth time hfig.

thus the bubble would create on a flat surface a liquid film that is thinner than the thickness of a bacterium 1 um which would then quickly rupture through an evaporation-driven instability.

supplementary video 1 suggesting that--by rapidly thinning the liquid layer--evaporation can lead to the deformation of its free surface in the voids between bacteria and to its ultimate rupture.

the resulting three-phase contact line ruptures and moves radially outward from the point of rupture to minimize surface energy.

