some hypotheses have been proposed to explain the reduced susceptibility of candida biofilms to azole drugs including the reduced metabolism of biofilm cells decreased drug penetration through the biofilm matrix and increased expression of specific genes by bio- film cells especially those that encode efflux pumps.3839regarding the inhibitory activity of amphotericin b five of the eight tested biofilm-producing strains presented a reduction in biofilm metabolic activity after exposure to this drug corroborating the findings of brucker et al.40and brilhante et al.37 who reported that amphotericin b has a consistent activity against biofilms of candida spp.

the antifungal susceptibility results are shown in table 1.in order to assess biofilm antifungal susceptibility the eight biofilm-producing strains were used and mature biofilms were exposed to two antifungal concentrations 10xmic and 50xmic based on the mics obtained against each strain in planktonic form.

are resistant to antifungal drugs commonly used in clinical practice especially azole derivatives.3536 our results corroborate these observations once candida biofilms were able to tolerate higher concentrations of antifungal drugs when compared to their planktonic counterparts as demonstrated by the xtt assay which detects biofilm metabolic activity hence allowing the assessment of biofilm viability and its susceptibility to antifungal drugs.1819 in the present study only one strain of c. parapsilosis sensu stricto and one c. glabrata were inhibited by itraconazole and fluconazole while the other tested strains tolerated both azole drugs even at 50xmic.

krusei and 8 lgml against c. parapsilosis and c. guil- liermondii indicated resistance.17 for the other candida species caspofungin mic values 2 lgml indicated that the strain is not susceptible to this drug.16antifungal susceptibility of mature candida biofilmsthe method described by ramage et al.18 with modifi- cations was used to assess the inhibitory effect of the antifungal drugs on the biofilms formed by the tested strains.

sensitization of candida albicans biofilms to various antifungal drugs by cyclosporine a. annals of clinical microbiology and antimicrobials 2012 doi sarkar s uppuluri p pierce cg et al.

have been reported as the third most common etiological agent of equine keratomycosis.7c 2017 american college of veterinary ophthalmologiststhe pathogenicity of candida species is mediated by several virulence factors including the ability to evade host defenses production of hydrolytic enzymes and the ability to adhere to the host tissues especially mucous membranes and medical devices such as central venous catheters or prostheses where these yeasts can form bio- films.8 biofilms are defined as well-structured microbial communities that are adhered to a surface and embedded in an extracellular polymeric matrix.9 the advantages of living within a biofilm include protection against the envi- ronment resistance to physical and chemical stresses metabolic cooperation and joint regulation of gene expression for the associated microorganisms.10 it is important to highlight that biofilm growth is often involved in the development of candida keratitis11 and these biofilms are commonly resistant to antifungal agents thus becoming inherently difficult to treat.12therefore the aim of this study was to assess the bio- film-forming ability of candida spp.

biofilmsthe biofilms were analyzed by scanning electron micro- scopy sem according to wang et al.15 with modifica- tions.

after the addition of 100 ll of each drug the plates were further incubated at 35 degc for 48 h.the viability of the mature biofilms was assessed by the xtt assay according to sidrim et al.19 xtt is an oxi- doreduction indicator that is reduced by mitochondrial dehydrogenases of metabolically active cells to the water- soluble formazan product.

additionally two strains of c. glabrata were able to produce biofilm and were classified as weak and moderate producers corrobo- rating the findings of silva et al.8 who reported a weaker biofilm-forming ability for this species.several studies have reported that biofilms formed by candida spp.

similarly brilhante et al.37 demonstrated that c. tropicalis biofilms are not affected by very high concentrations of azole drugs.

afterward antifungal susceptibility of mature biofilms was evaluated by exposing them to 10 9 mic and 50 9 mic of the tested drugs followed by the assessment of their metabolic activity using the oxidoreduction indicator xtt.

one c. parapsilosis sensu stricto and one c. glabrata showed significant reduction in biofilm metabolic activity after exposure to fluconazole itraconazole and caspofungin but not ampho- tericin b.conclusions the results demonstrate that candida from the ocular conjunctiva of horses can pose as a risk to animal health as they are capable of forming biofilms which are commonly involved in fungal keratitis.key words antifungal susceptibility biofilm candida spp horses microbiota yeastsintroduction fungi are normally present in places where horses inhabit and are part of their corneal and conjunctival microbiota.1 the conjunctival microbiota of horses is variable depend- ing on the animal's age season of the year geographic location and presence of bacteria and fungi including candida spp.

cellsthe minimum inhibitory concentration mic for the antifungal drugs against the strains of candida in free- flowing planktonic growth was determined by the broth microdilution method as standardized by the clinical and laboratory standards institute.16 amphotericin b sigma usa itraconazole janssen pharmaceutica bel- gium fluconazole pfizer brazil and caspofungin sigma usa were prepared according to clsi guide- lines.16 amphotericin b and itraconazole were initially diluted with dmso while fluconazole and caspofungin were diluted with water.16 even though amphotericin b and caspofungin are not commonly used to treat fungal infections in animals they were tested as representatives of the polyene and echinocandin class of antifungal drugs respectively.

guilliermondii biofilms are formed by layers of blasto- conidia and pseudohyphae and c. glabrata biofilms are formed by layers of blastoconidia only fig.

1.regarding antifungal susceptibility the antifungal mics against candida strains in planktonic form were visually determined through broth microdilution.

