atf was funded by fct under project uidcec50021 2013. ll wa rp and ac were funded by cnpq and capes.fundingthis work was supported by the conselho nacional de desenvolvimento cientifico e tecnologico cnpq-brazil coordenacao de aperfeicoamento de pessoal de nivel superior capes-brazil fundacao norte-rio-grandense de pesquisa e cultura funpec fundacao de amparo a pesquisa do rio de janeiro faperj and fundacao para a ciencia e a tecnologia fct with references uidcec500212013 and excleei-ess02572012.availability of data and materialsthe datasets generated andor analyzed during the current study are available in the sra repository a table with detailed sample sra project and run codes is provided as a additional files.authors' contributionsav af and ll have made substantial contributions to conception and design jo wa and jf were responsible for acquisition of data and analysis and jo wa rp ag sa cm and ac were responsible for the interpretation of data all the authors have been involved in drafting the manuscript or revising it critically for important intellectual content all the authors have given final approval of the version to be published.ethics approval and consent to participatenot applicable.consent for publicationnot applicable.competing intereststhe authors declare that they have no competing interests.publisher's notespringer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.author details1laboratorio de biologia molecular e genomica departamento de biologia celular e genetica centro de biociencias universidade federal do riogrande do norte natal rn brazil.

bmc microbiology 2017 17168doi 10.1186s12866-017-1077-4biogeographical distribution analysis of hydrocarbon degrading and biosurfactant producing genes suggests that near- equatorial biomes have higher abundance of genes with potential for bioremediationjorge s. oliveira123 wydemberg j. araujo13 ricardo m. figueiredo2 rita c. b. silva-portela1 alaine de brito guerra1 sinara carla da silva araujo1 carolina minnicelli1 aline cardoso carlos1 ana tereza ribeiro de vasconcelos3 ana teresa freitas2 and lucymara f. agnez-lima1correspondence equal contributors1laboratorio de biologia molecular e genomica departamento de biologia celular e genetica centro de biociencias universidade federal do rio grande do norte natal rn brazil2inesc-idist instituto de engenharia de sistemas e computadoresinstitutosuperior tecnico universidade de lisboa rua alves redol 9 1000-029 lisbon portugalfull list of author information is available at the end of the articlec the authors.

the alcanivorax and escherichia genera are more abundant in water meta- genomes while streptomyces is more abundant in terres- trial metagenomes.functional comparison of terrestrial and water samples revealed that some cyclic hydrocarbon degradation path-ways namely toluene chlorocyclohexane chlorobenzene and nitrotoluene degradation are significantly more abun- dant in terrestrial metagenomes while linear hydrocarbon degradation pathways as alkane degradation and cyto- chrome p450 metabolism are significantly more abundant in water ecosystems.

2inesc-idist instituto de engenharia de sistemas e computadoresinstituto superior tecnico universidade de lisboa rua alves redol 9 1000-029 lisbon portugal.

two filters were used a minimal q-value of 0.05 and a minimum difference of proportions of 1 program defaults.resultsquality assessmentfrom the initial dataset of 71 metagenomics samples 24 samples were discarded by failing the quality assessment and 46 samples from the several biomes shown in table were used for further analysis.

at this stage of the data analysis it was not possible to guarantee a uniform number of samples per biome because for many of the projects the samples were not of acceptable quality.taxonomy annotation using refseqfor the 46 samples the metagenomes annotations were obtained by using the alignment program last to com- pare the metagenomic sequences with the refseq protein database.

the third cluster is also formed by water metagenomes but from tropical regions.these results validate the samples for consistency as the samples from the same metagenomes are in the same clusters.

3laboratorio de bioinformatica laboratorio nacional de computacao cientifica petropolis rj brazil.received 16 february 2017 accepted 18 july 2017referenceskurata n vella k hamilton b shivji m soloviev a matt s tartar a perriew.

as seen in the rarefaction curve figure additional file figure s2 the number of leaves in taxonomy reaches a plateau in all samples and this confirms the acceptable sample size of the data under analysis.biosurfdb cluster analysisusing the 46 samples a functional clustering was car- ried out examining the data obtained from a blast compared with the databases included in the biosurfdb information system using the genesis software tool.

in cluster 1 it is possible to see water metagenomes mainly samples from the atlantic and pacific oceans and grouped into distinct cluster extensions.

2004 isolated an enteric strain leclercia adecarboxylata ps4040 from soil samples collected from an oily sludge contaminated site that had had a contamination history of over 100 years which is geno- typically different from a clinical strain of l. adecarbox- ylata and showed that it can degrade other two- and three-benzene-ring pah in water metagenomes the alcanivorax hydrocarbono- clastic genus is predominant when compared to those in soil.

methane metabolism is also significantly higher in terrestrial biomes.discussionin this article we have focused on the biogeographical distribution of hydrocarbon degrading and biosurfactant producing genetic diversity in the environment.taxonomic analysis using refsequsing refseq databases the formation of clusters from water and terrestrial metagenomes are in accordance with previous studies suggesting that the principle factor influencing the microbiota is if the substrate is terrestrial or water on a second level metagenomes subjected to similar abiotic and biotic conditions such as sunlight temperature oxygen supply osmotic and redox poten- tial ph and nutrient supply should have a similar bac- terial community in their environments  therefore these factors possibly determine the formation of the clusters observed in this paper.functional analysis using biosurfdbin the functional analysis performed using biosurfdb we analyzed all the available genes involved with the hydrocarbon degradation pathways along with the genes of the biosurfactant synthesis cluster 1 in fig.

however biosurfactant produc- tion was not observed for mycobacterium  which can explain the low abundance of surfactants in our results.soil vs. water metagenomesin this study escherichia and alcanivorax genus were predominant in water metagenomes while streptomyces was shown to be abundant in terrestrial metagenomes.

2011211552-60.wood de salzberg sl.

19691633866467-8.timmis kn mcgenity tj van der meer jr de lorenzo v. 2010. handbook of hydrocarbon and lipid microbiology.leahy jg colwell rr.

