as stated by  this mechanism also can play a relevant role in non- methanogenic mixed cultures through hydrogen transfer be- tween hydrogen producers and consumers limiting sustainable hydrogen production due to homoacetogenesis.

hydrogen production occurred throughout the experimental period with an average effluent ph of only 2.8. the fb ug and uf-1 reactors presented volumetric hydrogen production rates vhpr of 95 - 69 45 - 37 and 54 - 32 mlh2 l-1h-1 respectively and h2 yields hy of 1.5 - 0.80.8 - 0.6 and 1.2 - 0.7 molh2 mol-1 sucroseconsumed respectively.

the non-necessity of adding alkalizing agents and the successful h2 production under very acid conditions demonstrated in this study open a new field of investigation in biological hydrogen production by dark fermentation towards a more sustainable and feasible technology.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionin recent years more attention has been given to the potential for hydrogen production by dark fermentation df.

the 95 confidence level was adopted for all tests.theoretical calculations of the percentage of acidified sucrose and of hydrogen yield by the different metabolic routesthe simplified stoichiometric equations equations e were used to calculate the molar ratio between sucrose consumed and acids produced sucroseacid and between hydrogen gas and acids produced h2acid.

evolutionary distances were based on the kimura model  and tree reconstruction on the neighbor-joining method with bootstrap values calculated from 500 replicate runs.results and discussionvolumetric hydrogen production rate and biogas composition shows the volumetric hydrogen production rate vhpr and effluent ph of the fb ug and uf-1 reactors.

although the ethanol-acetate pathway yields less hydrogen than the acetate-pathway equation  the hydrogen yield could be 4.0 mol of h2 per mol of sucrose consumed which is in the range achieved in the uf-2 reactor considering sucrose as substrate.

since the maximum achieved hydrogen yield with the pure culture of e. harbinense  was higher than the theoretical yield depicted in equation section  it is probable that this bacterium is able to produce hydrogen and ethanol by pathways other than ethanol-acetate fermentation.

7. proposed model to explain changes in the uf-2 reactor that led to increased h2 production.table 5comparison of hydrogen production in continuous acidogenic reactors using sucrose as substrate.reactor typeolr - gcod l-1d-1 effluent ph temp - 0c h2 in biogas -  vhpr- ml h2 l-1h-1 hy - mol h2 mol-1 sucrose ref.a the reference conditions adopted were 25 0c and 1 atm.drastic reduction or cessation of hydrogen production by dark fermentation at ph values below 4.5e4.0  .

ferraz junior  e. trably  m. zaiat a lpb department of hydraulics and sanitary engineering sao carlos school of engineering university of sao paulo usp avenida joao dagnone 1100 sao carlos sp 13563-120 brazilb ctbe cnpem rua giuseppe maximo scolfaro 10000 campinas sp 13083-970 brazilc lbe inra univ montpellier 11100 narbonne francea r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 7 april 2017 received in revised form 13 september 2017accepted 28 october 2017available online 30 october 2017keywordsacidogenic reactor acid-tolerant bacteria biohydrogendark fermentation hydrogenpha b s t r a c t biological hydrogen production was investigated in continuous acidogenic reactors fed with sucrose at 30 0c without ph control.

hydrogen is produced concomitantly with volatile fatty acids vfa through acidogenesis during anaerobic treatment and its recovery is a way of extracting additional energy in wastewater treatment plants.

the foregoing notwithstanding usual h2 yields are lower due to the utilization of the substrate in a variety of pathways that produce less or no h2 and for biomass growth also due to microbial h2 consumption.environmental ph plays a crucial role in hydrogen yields.

as reactor design and the biomass retention mechanism biofilm flocs or granules affect the biological dynamics and thus net hydrogen production different configurations of reactors were evaluated.material and methodsreactor configurations and inoculuman up-flow structured fixed-bed reactor a granular uasb reactor and a flocculent uasb reactor were used.

it was verified that higher hydrogen production was obtained at hrt between 4 and 5 h data not shown.

ethanol was determined using shi- madzu gc-2010 gas chromatograph with a flame ionization de- tector fid flow of 1.5 ml min-1 with ultra-pure hydrogen as the carrier gas injector and detector temperature of 250 0c and 280 0c respectively.total cod of the affluent soluble cod of the effluent filtered in1.2 mm membrane and volatile suspended solids vss concen- tration in the effluent were analysed according to .

despite the low ph hydrogen production occurred throughout the experimental period.punctual increases in ph accompanied by reduction of sucrose removal organic acid and h2 production were observed.

