characterization of the metabolites and metabolic profile of lhg extract in normal and t2d human intestinal tract would be helpful for understanding the efficacy and action mechanism of lhg in future research.associated contents supporting informationthe supporting information is available free of charge on the at doi .microflora in normal and t2d human fecal samples external instrument calibration the difference of metabolites between t2d and normal human intestinal bacteria a diagram for rapid identification of triterpe- noids by uplc-qtof-msms total ion chromato- grams of siraitia fructus total triterpenoids incubated in simulated gastric juice stability results of 14 mainconstituents from siraitia fructus total triterpenoids incubated in simulated gastric and intestinal juices total ion chromatograms of siraitia fructus total triterpenoids incubated in simulated intestinal juice elucidation of metabolic pathways of lhg triterpenoids by normal human intestinal microbiota information on normal and t2d volunteers metabolites of lhg extract in normal and type 2 diabetic human intestinal microbiota and the relative content percentage and area of each prototype component and metabolite in normal and t2d human intestinal microbiota author informationcorresponding authortel.

apex track peak integration was used for peak detection and the absolute peak height was limited to 20 units.figure 1. total ion chromatograms tic of control 1 using t2d human intestinal microbiota and medium a control 2 using lhg extract and dilution medium b lhg extract after biotransformation by t2d human intestinal microbiota and medium c incubated for 24 h control 3 using normal human intestinal microbiota and medium d control 4 using lhg extract and dilution medium e lhg extract after biotransformationby normal human intestinal microbiota and medium f incubated for 24 h.results and discussionstructural differentiation and characterization ofmogrosides in lhg extract.

the results of the study indicate that the metabolite classes of lhg extract in normal and t2d human intestinal microbiota are nearly the same.however oxidation and isomerization reactions of lhg extract were relatively less present in normal human intestinal bacteria as compared with those in t2d human intestinal bacteria.

onewas used in the dilution of the medium and t2d human fecal microbiota as shown in a and the other was used in the dilution of lhg extract and the medium as shown in b. the transformed lhg sample by t2d human intestinal microbiota is shown in c. comparing this with the control of medium and fecal microbiota a 10 prototype components compounds 1 6 7 10 12-15 20 and23 were identified and analyzed from b. the potential metabolites were detected from the tic of trans- formed lhg sample in comparison with the two controls a and b. a total of 19 metabolites compounds 2- 5 8 9 11 16-19 21 22 and 24-29 as shown in c were identified.

however oxidation and isomerization reactions of mogroside type compounds were less common in normal human intestinal bacteria as compared to those in t2d human intestinal bacteria.in this paper a study of in vitro biotransformation of lhg extract by t2d and normal human intestinal microbiota was conducted.

one was used in the dilution of the medium and normal human fecal microbiota shown in d and the other was used in the dilution of lhg extract and the medium as shown in e. the transformed lhg sample by normal human intestinal microbiota is shown in f. comparing thiswith the control of medium and fecal microbiota  d 10 prototype components compounds 1 6 7 10 12-15 20 and 23 were identified and 12 metabolitescompounds 2 3 8 9 16-19 24 25 27 and 29 were detected.

the differences of metabolites of lhg extracts in t2d and normal human intestinal bacteria are shown in .considering the close relationship between intestinal bacteria and t2d the metabolic difference of lhg extract in t2d and normal human intestinal bacteria was investigated first.

intestinal bacteria have a number of deconjugating enzymes such as b-d-glucosidases which promote the process of the deglycosylation reaction from glycoside compounds.consid-table 1. comparison of metabolites source and biotransformation reaction of lhg extract in normal and type 2 diabetic human intestinal microbiotaa detected - undetected.figure 2. elucidation of metabolic pathways of lhg triterpenoids by t2d human intestinal microbiota a mogroside substituted in position c-7 type saponins b mogroside substituted in position c-11 type saponins and c mogroside-type saponins.

the source of the above-mentioned metabolites and biotransformation of lhg extract in normal and t2d human intestinal bacteria are listed in .summary of metabolic pathways of lhg extracts in t2d and normal human intestinal bacteria.

structures in blue indicate major lhg triterpenoids in the original lhg extract.ering the transformation from glycosides to aglycone we proposed that b-d-glucosidases contributed to the process of deglycosylation of lhg extract in both t2d and normal human intestinal bacteria.

hence it was necessary to illuminate the biotransformation of mogrosides from lhg extract by human intestinal bacteria in the pathological state of t2d.in this paper an in vitro biotransformation study of mogrosides by normal and t2d human intestinal microbiotacalories and are also reported to have antidiabetic activity.

it was evident that theoxidation and isomerization reactions of lhg extract were more prevalent in t2d human intestinal bacteria than they were in normal human intestinal bacteria.

however the biotransfor- mation of lhg extract in human intestinal bacteria is absent because of the shortage of reference compounds and the complex structures of lhg extract.

the sample was processed in the same way as it was for the lhg extract in simulated gastric juice.study of the metabolism of the lhg sample by normal and t2d human intestinal bacteria.

it was also noted that the concentration of 11-deoxymogroside v in normal human intestinal microbiota was relatively low compared with that of t2d human intestinal microbiota.metabolic pathways of mogroside type compounds by t2dhuman intestinal microbiota were proposed as shown in c. in total 16 metabolites compounds 2 4 5 8 9 11 1618 19 21 and 24-29 were derived from original mogroside type compounds.

