The basic sequence by which this is done can be described by 'drill blast load haul dump crush grind separate process' where separation means the isolation of mineral particles of economic interest from other mineral particles and processing e.g.

The consequent cost reductions have made it economical to mine and process rock containing very small quantities of metal as low as 0.5 gtonne in the case of gold.

The purpose of this article is to describe the potential for biotechnology to remove or mitigate many of these constraints and change the way in which metals are obtained.Economic ore deposits see  are becoming more difficult to find.

The resulting tailings ponds and waste- rock dumps pose significant engineering challenges environmental concerns and financial liabilities.

The best alternative would be to produce little or no waste.To shift the current mining paradigm away from its constraints some 'Grand Challenge' questions must be asked such as 'is it possible to obtain metals with 75 less energy' or 'can we obtain metals and produce little or no waste' A different approach is needed to respond to these challenges.Bacterial processing of minerals offers an alternative for overcoming the prevailing geological physical and environmental constraints.

The mechanisms all have the same goal - to obtain energy and carbon.

The dissolution occurs naturally and produces ferrous iron and sulfate ions.

The bacteria use enzymes to oxidize the ferrous iron to ferric iron deriving energy from the electron transfer and thus increasing the dissolution rate.

The complexity of the bacterial community is most pro- nounced in heaps in which there is a large spatial variation of physical chemical and mineral- ogical conditions indicating the occurrence of niche adaptation and specialization by microbial communities for different ore types and conditions .The genetic underpinnings of the ability of extremophiles to perform quorum-sensing respond to chemical stimuli form biofilms on sulfide minerals oxidize the minerals and protect them- selves from the resulting high metal concentrations are the focus of much current industrial and academic research efforts.

The sulfides can be processed to produce saleable metal products and the sulfur has many applications in industrial processes.Bioteq and Paques use SRB-based processes to treat metal-contaminated water near mines or metal-processing facilities resulting in metal sulfide precipitates www.bioteq.ca .

