the formation of aldehyde and phenolic acid metabolites was catalysed by relevant enzymes or spontaneous cleavage which led to a combination of acn mono-mer conversion steps .of the metabolites of c3g and c3r the main primary phenolic acid degradation product observed during incubation was proto- catechuic acid a and b. the formation of the idiomatical metabolites caused by the microbial degradation of c3g occurred between 0 and 24 h of fermentation and its levels reached a max- imum concentration at 4 h and 5 h for c3g and c3r respectively.

the metabolites produced by the metabolism of acns could be further metabolized to form easily absorbed compounds such as glucuronidated sulfated or methylated conjugates .formation of microbial aldehyde and phenolic acid metabolites various aldehydes and phenolic acids were released from the metabolism of acns including main intermediate metabolites and final metabolites .

the msms parameters were as follows positive mode esi source voltage 5.0 kv capillary voltage 36 v sheath gas flow rate 40 arb aux gas flow rate 5 arb sweep gas flow rate 0 arb capillary temperature 300 degc and scan range 50-1200 mz.changes of acns and metabolitesthe percentage degradation of acns was calculated as followsq 14 a0 - ai x 100d1thwhere qi represents the percentage degradation of acns at different time points  ai is the hplc peak area of acns at different time points in the solution respectively a0 is the hplc peak area of acns at 0 h in the solution.the percent of peak area of metabolites was expressed as followsq 14 ed x 100d2thwhere qd represents the percent of peak area of metabolites at dif- ferent time points  ed is the hplc peak area of metabolites at dif- ferent time points in the solution respectively a0 is the hplc peak area of acns at 0 h in the solution.statistical analysesall experiments were conducted in triplicate.

these metabolites may appear by the presence of bd-glucosidase bd-glucuronidase and al-rhamnosidase activities of the gut flora.in a word most of the acns are not absorbed easily at the upper gi level hence reaching the intestinal flora where they are bio- transformed into their metabolites in the metabolic processes mentioned above and then the metabolites are absorbed .generally glycosylated acns were rapidly metabolized by gut microflora however the disappearance of acns during the meta- bolism did not accord with the resulting quantities of phenolic acids or aldehydes.

considering the potential effects of acn metabolites it is necessary to determine the metabolites of acns before assessing their health effects.in this research three main acn monomers cyanidin-3- glucoside c3g cyanidin-3-rutinoside c3r and delphinidin-3- rutinoside d3r which were isolated from mulberry fruits morus alba l. were employed to perform the metabolism in fresh rat fae- ces.

c3g disappeared after 6 h of metabolism while c3r and d3r were no longer detected after 8 h. the metabolism of c3g and c3r mainly resulted in the formation of protocatechuic vanillic and p-coumaric acids as well as 246-trihydroxybenzaldehyde while the main metabolites of d3r were gal- lic acid syringic acid and 246-trihydroxybenzaldehyde.

2. product-ion spectrum of the protonated molecule of the cyanidin-derived a and delphinidin -derived b chalcone pseudobase.conjugated- glucuronidated- and sulfated- metabolites are degraded into their relevant metabolites in the presence of gut microbiota.

vanillic acid has also been identified as one of the main metabolites of peonidin-3-glucoside p3g after metabolism by human intestinal microbiotaformation of other metabolitesas the metabolism continued the number of metabolites in the batch culture increased .

no p-coumaric acid metabolites were detected for d3r indicating that this phenolic acid was itself metabolized or below the detection limit.during the metabolism of c3g and c3r vanillic acid was also detected which might be caused by either the degradation of peonidin or the methylation of protocatechuic acid through the existence of catechol-o-methyltransferase .

3. formation of metabolites from a c3g b c3r and c d3r in the presence of gut microflora.

apart from these metabolites there were some other com- pounds observed at 24 h such as caffeic acid and tartaric acid for c3g and c3r as well as ferulic acid for c3r which was similar to our previous studies .

within the first 2 h c3g went through an extensive metabolism 80. after 6 h of active incubation c3g was metabolized below the limit of detection.

at 6 h with the disap- pearance of c3g p-hydroxybenzoic acid and catechol began to be observed in the media while the p-hydroxybenzoic acid and catechol formed in the media of c3r were first detected at 8 h. the amounts of p-hydroxybenzoic acid and catechol in both c3g and c3r remained at the same level.

acns and metabolites were analysed and characterized by high performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-mass spectrum hplc-esi-msms.

this research indicated that the intake of acns may result in the appearance of specific metabolites that exert a protective effect in the host physiology.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionanthocyanins acns are a subgroup of flavonoids often found in colourful fruits and vegetables which as well are potential diet- ary modulators of mechanisms for various diseases.

