taken together these data indicated that sr141716a intervention treatment in diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  sr ameliorates the compromised mucosal layer and gut leakage in diet-induced obesity dio phenotype.additionally our data showed that there was a significant reduction in lipopolysaccharide lps levels in the serum of sr141716a-treated diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd sr when compared to vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd vehicle pair-fed diet-induced obesity dio control pfsr and body weight matched-control bwm mice fig.

to investigate the particular effect of sr141716a on the gut-flora of diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  sr we conducted studies with pair-fed to sr141716a pfsr and body-weight matched controls to diet-induced obesity dio mice treated with sr141716a hfd  sr. our data indicated significant enrichment of akkermansia muciniphila otus in diet-induced obesity-treated mice with sr141716a hfd  sr when compared with both pair-fed obese pfsr and body-weight matched bwm controls.

sr141716a treatment in diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  sr resulted in a significant suppression of adipose tissue fibrosis and consequently further reduction in local adipose tissue inflammation and dysfunction supplementary figure 1ab.lighter fat pad mainly in the epididymal fat pad in sr141716a-treated diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  sr was associated with smaller liver weight when compared with vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd  vehicle pair-fed diet -induced obesity dio control pfsr and body weight-matched control bwm mice fig.

overall intervention treat- ment of diet-induced obesity dio mice with sr141716a hfd sr led to the improvement of the inflam- matory state of adipose tissue beyond its effect on diet restriction.we also observed a significant increase in both the percentage and numbers of cd4  gata3  th2 cells anti-inflammatory t cell subset following treatment with sr141716a of diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd sr in adipose tissue supplementary figure 2ab.figure 2. sr141716a attenuates local and systemic inflammation in diet-induced obesity.

the intervention treatment of sr141716a in diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd sr improved the serum metabolic parameters such as fasting blood glucose fbg triglycerides tgs high-density lipoprotein hdl low-density lipoprotein ldl homeo- static model assessment homa index when compared to vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd  vehicle and pair-fed to sr141716a pfsr.

the expression of mucus-related genes mucin2 muc2 and kruppel-like factor 4 klf4 were increased with sr141716a treatment in diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  sr when compared with vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  vehicle pair-fed to sr141716a pfsr controls and body weight-matched bwm controls fig.

rt-pcr from the isolated fecal dna demonstrated significant enrichment in a. muciniphila coloni- zation in sr141716a-treated dio mice hfd  sr when compared to vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd  vehicle pair-fed to sr141716a pfsr and body weight matched to sr141716a bwm fig.

we also assessed the changes in blood myeloid derived-suppressor cells mdscs and found a significant decrease in myeloid derived-suppressor cells mdscs following sr141716a treatment supplementary figure 2e thereby suggesting that there may be increased migration of such cells into the adipose tissue follow- ing sr141716a treatment.differential analysis of complete blood count cbc revealed significant leukocytosis in diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  vehicle when compared to sr141716a-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd  sr and lean lfd  vehicle mice.

.to examine the effect of sr141716a beyond its effect on calorie intake the pair-fed control pfsr mice werefed with the same amount of high fat diet as consumed by the sr141716a-treated diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd sr. the weight loss pattern in pair-fed control pfsr group was similar to hfd sr during the first two weeks of treatment but then pair-fed control pfsr group started to gain weight reaching body weight close to vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd vehicle by the end of the treatment fig.

consistent with previ- ous studies treatment with sr141716a of mice with diet-induced obesity dio hfd  sr transiently reduced calorie intake and induced weight loss when compared with vehicle-treated mice with diet-induced obesity dio hfd  vehicle fig.

intervention treatment of diet-induced obesity dio mice with sr141716a hfd sr demonstrated significant reduction in the ratio of macrophagesadipocytes as compared with vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd  vehicle mice pair-fed controlpfsr and body weight matched-control bwm fig.

treatment of diet-induced obesity dio mice with sr141716a hfd  sr led to lower level of il-17 mono- cyte chemoattractant protein-1 mcp-1 eotaxin and macrophage inflammatory protein-1a mip-1a when compared to vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd vehicle fig.

in the current study we noted that myeloid derived-suppressor cells mdscs were increased with sr141716a treatment in diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  sr when compared to vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd  vehicle in adipose tissue supplementary figure 2cd.

glucose tolerance test gtt and insulin tolerance test itt showed remarkable improvement in metabolic parameters in diet-induced obesity dio mice when treated with sr141716a hfd  sr as compared with vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio hfd  vehicle and pair-fed pfsr control mice fig.

in the current study we found that cb1 receptor expression was down-regulated with the sr141716a treatment of diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  sr when compared to vehicle-treated diet-induced obesity dio mice hfd  vehicle fig.

