In a comparison among the blood feces and uterus the mean 16S rRNA gene copy in feces was significantly higher P  0.01 than those in the blood and in the uterus and there was no significant difference between the blood and uterus however the mean 16S rRNA gene copy in the uterus tended to be lower P  0.07 than in the blood.

The negative correlation in total bacteria between the uterus and blood Additional file Figure S3 supports the idea of bacterial transport from the blood to the uterus via blood leukocytes but the synergism among uterine path- ogens in blood and their specific mechanisms of inva- sion of the uterus warrants further investigation.ConclusionsThe blood feces vagina and uterus have unique en- vironments and thereby unique structures of bacter- ial communities were observed depending on body sites.

Microbiome 2017 5109DOI 10.1186s40168-017-0328-9Blood as a route of transmission of uterine pathogens from the gut to the uterus in cowsSoo Jin Jeon1 Federico Cunha1 Achilles Vieira-Neto12 Rodrigo C. Bicalho3 Svetlana Lima3 Marcela L. Bicalho4 and Klibs N. Galvao15AbstractBackground Metritis is an inflammatory disease of the uterus caused by bacterial infection particularly Bacteroides Porphyromonas and Fusobacterium.

Bacteroides heparinolyticus was more abundant in the uterus on day 0 and both B. heparinolyticus and Fusobacterium necrophorum were more abundant in the uterus than in the blood and feces on day 2.

In our previous study the uterine microbiota at calving was discriminated between cows that remained healthy and cows that later developed metritis showing that the uterus begins to establish a bacterial community towards either health or disease shortly after calving Management strategies to control the source of bacterial contamination or to control the proliferation of patho- genic bacteria in the uterus such as vaccination or the use of probiotics could help prevent metritis in dairy cows.It is widely believed that uterine bacteria ascend from the vagina or through the vagina from the environment or feces when the cervix which serves as an anatomical and immunological barrier opens during parturition Pathogens associated with the development of metri- tis such as Bacteroides Fusobacterium and Porphyromo- nas are part of the normal flora of the rumen in cows and are shed in feces therefore ascending uterine contamination from the environment could con- tribute to the development of metritis.

In cows as well as in other species there is massive migra- tion of leukocytes to the uterus with impending partur- ition and into the uterus after parturition   therefore free-floating bacteria or bacteria engulfed by monocytesmacrophages could be readily transferred to the uterine lumen after calving.The blood microbiome has not been investigated in peripartum dairy cows.

This result demon- strates that despite the establishment of a bacterial com- munity the abundance of uterine microbiota was not fully developed by day 2.To assess if the microbiota from one body site affected the microbiota from another site we evaluated the cor- relations between the 16S rRNA gene copies in blood and uterus and between feces and uterus in cows that had samples from all three sites.

The lack of cor- relation is probably because of the immensely greater bacterial biomass in the gut compared with other body sites therefore transfer of bacteria from the gut to the uterus may be more related to the integrity of physical barriers such as the vulva vagina and cervix and trans- fer of bacteria from the gut to blood may be more re- lated to the integrity of the gastrointestinal epithelium.Previous metagenomic studies identified Bacteroides heparinolyticus and Fusobacterium necrophorum as uterine pathogens because these bacteria were more prevalent in the uterus of dairy cows with metritis compared with those in that of the healthy cows Therefore to determine if uterine pathogens are present in blood and feces and if they are how many of them occupy their habitats we used ddPCR for copy numbers of B. heparinolyticus and F. necrophorum Fig.

The observation of higher abundance of B.heparinolyticus in the uterus than in blood or feces at calving indicates a tropism of this bacterium for the uterus.

Blood seeps into the uterus after calving therefore we hypothesized that blood could also be a seeding source of uterine bacteria.

