here we presented data on 822 microbiome compositions from a community-based sample together with a novel analysis method called esabo based on the entropy shift of pairs of--binarized--abundance vectors under boolean operations.histogram of abundance values extracted from the 822 microbiome compositions see  for the two high-abundance phyla bacteroidetes and firmicutes as well as the three phyla with the highest degree k in the network of positive interactions shown in  namely tenericutes k  16 acidobacteria k  16 and spirochaetes k  14. the abscissa displays the count number of samples in which a relative abundance 1. .

this is seen i in the simulation model we employ to calibrate and test our method section method for testing the analysis method using simulated data ii in the computational technique we use to distin- guish between cooperative and competitive interactions sections boolean abundance analysisand analysis of simulated data as well as in iii the possibility to treat some of the properties of the binarized abundance vectors analytically section background.for the simulation model we construct random graphs of positive and negative interac- tions simulate time courses starting from random initial abundance patterns and thus obtain a set of attractors i.e.

furthermore we analyze networks with the same number of positive and negative interactions m  m-.examples of normalized pair probabilities pdijthmindpdith pdjthth with k l 2 0 1 for six links of the network from  three positiveklklinteractions lhs and three negative interactions rhs.even on the level of the pair probabilities pdijth the difference between positive and negative interactions is clearly seen.

8 lowly co-abundant by z-score pairs of nodes as listed in table f and c and a fairly more extensive list of mutualistic and highly co-abundant pairs of phyla shown in tables de and f. in the supporting information .co-abundance networks positive and negative interactionsfrom the co-abundance data and their respective esabo scores we can extract a network of significantly mutualistic links between species  and a corresponding network of mutu- ally inhibiting links .network of mutualistic interactions pairs of microbes where the boolean operation and leads to a high entropy shift compared to 1000 randomizations.

the histogram for negative interactions is clearly centered at negative z- scores while the positive interactions are predominantly in the positive range even though some values are in the negative z-score range as well.

the method called entropy shifts of abundance vectors under boolean operations esabo evaluates the information content of pairs of binary abundance vectors when combined via boolean operations.

values are given for the ten positive and ten negative interactions of the network from .intended to produce 'data' which are in all aspects similar to the true microbial abundance data.

however their detection is more challenging as network reconstruction methods based on abundance tend to priorize interactions involving the high-abundance species.in this work we present and analyze a comparatively large dataset consisting of 822 sam- ples and introduce a new network inference method based on boolean networks.

phylogeny based alpha-diversities faith pd and beta-diversities weighted and unweighted unifrac were calculated with fasttree produced maximum-likelihood tree and mothur.histogram of z-scores of entropy shifts obtained with the esabo method boolean and applied to simulated binary abundance patterns from 20 species interaction networks consisting of 15 nodes and 15 positive and negative interactions respectively.

in contrast we identify only a handful of negative links and a large body of positive links.while our raw data confirms the negative correlation between bacterioidetes and firmi- cutes as reported in  and other work here we look at all interactions with a method designed due to the binarization to focus on low-abundance species.it should be noted that when looking at such microbial interactions on a microscopic level the situation is more involved than a single interaction network can reveal.

itprediction qualities as a function of the number of links m  m- a positive interactions and b negative interactions and as a function of the noise level in the data c positive interactions and d negative interactions.

now the and operation shifts the g entries into the a field see  which means that the abundance entry for j1 is shifted to 0  d. conversely the or operation shifts the b entries such they are added to the d entry such that the abundance entry for j1 is shifted to b  g  d.hence the and operation always leads to an increase of the abundance whereby the or operation leads to a decrease or to no change.boolean co-abundance patterns and logical operations.

.. then the esabo score for operation op of species i with respect to spe- cies j is defined as the z-score compared to a null model of shuffled abundance vectors of the entropy of abundances after pointwise application of a boolean operation xi op j -bdithop bdjthd1thwhere the z-score is obtained from comparison to an ensemble of xi op j -bdithop bdjthd2thwhere bdjth for each fixed j is an abundance vector randomly reshuffled in k. the entropyh  -i pi ln pi in physics with prefactor kb or in shannon theory of information with base 2 of any normalized set of probabilities pi is a measure of uncertainty.

the multitude of positive and negative influences acting upon each microbial population and affecting the abundance pattern will impede the link-by-link inference of such microbial interactions.

a noise level p means that p percent of entries in a binarized abundance vector are substituted by a random choice of 0 and 1. we observe that the predic- tion quality remains rather high up to noise levels of 20 percent p  0.2 see .with the inclusion of simple binary noise we can verify that the reconstructed links are robust against detection errors in the data an issue that can be expected to be of much higher relevance in the case of low-abundance species than in the high-abundance regime.as seen in and there are occasional 'outliers' in the z-score distributions positive interactions with a large negative z-score.

