1-3 and 5 in colour.1introductionepidemiological studies indicate that colorectal cancer crc is the third most common cancer and a frequent cause of cancer death worldwide 1. many factors such as the envi- ronment obesity 2 and diet-such as low fruit and vegetable consumption as well as high intake of red meat-increase the incidence of crc.

taken together this study suggests that bs extract has great potential to suppress colon tumorigenesis.keywordsazoxymethane  boswellia serrata  colorectal cancer  dextran sulfate sodium  inflammationadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived november 8 2016revised february 14 2017accepted february 15 2017correspondence min-hsiung pane-mail abbreviations aom azoxymethane akt protein kinase b bs boswellia serrata cox-2 cyclooxygenase-2 crc colorec- tal cancer dss dextran sulfate sodium erk 12 extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 12 gsk33 glycogen synthasekinase 33 he hematoxylin-eosin inos inducible nitric ox- ide synthase ibd inflammatory bowel disease mapk mitogen- activated protein kinase nf-kb nuclear factor-kb no nitric oxide pcna proliferating cell nuclear antigen pi3k phospho- inositide 3-kinasecolour online see the article online to view figs.

the main active compounds in bs resin extract are the boswellic acids a group of pen- tacyclic triterpenes which are used to treat a variety of in- flammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis ulcera- tive colitis and bronchial asthma 18. in previous studies antioxidant anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor properties of boswellic acids have been reported 18-21. otherwise in vivostudy have shown that oral administration of 50-200 mgkg acetyl-11-keto-3-boswellic acid inhibit colon cancer progres- sion in the orthotopic mouse model 21. we considered that bs extract is a potential chemopreventive agent on colon cancer through suppression of inflammation-related path- ways.

cancer statistics 2009. ca cancer j. clin.

gut 2013 62 933-947.rhodes j. m. campbell b. j. inflammation and colorec- tal cancer ibd-associated and sporadic cancer compared.

2014 20 18121-18130.azca' rate-peril m. a. sikes m. bruno-ba' rcena j. m. the intestinal microbiota gastrointestinal environment and col- orectal cancer a putative role for probiotics in prevention of colorectal cancer am.

mapk in colon cancer suppres- sion of colitis-associated tumor initiation but requirement for cancer cell survival.

in this study we investigated the chemopreventive effects of dietary bs extract and its impact of gut microbiota on azoxymethanedextran sulfate sodium aomdss-induced colitis-associated colon cancer in mice.methods and results male icr mice were injected with aom and 2 dss via drinking water.

in addition patients with inflammatory bowel disease ibd including ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease are also at a significantly increased risk of developing crc 3 4.chronic inflammation has been generally shown to cor- relate with the initiation of colon cancer 4 5. in an ani- mal model oral delivery of dextran sulfate sodium dss to mice was shown to directly injure the intestinal epithelial- ium resulting in severe colitis as characterized by weight loss and bloody diarrhea 6. dss possesses powerful tumor- promoting properties that are attributed its ability to in- duce inflammation in the colonic mucosa 7. inflammation is characterized by upregulation of certain mediators such as inducible nitric oxide synthase inos cyclooxygenase- 2 cox-2 and interleukins 8. additionally these proin- flammatory cytokines are modulated by transcription factors including nuclear factor-kb nf-kb and mitogen-activated protein kinases mapks.

microbial dysbiosis induces dysregulation of immue responses that promotes tumor- genesis 11. recent studies have supported that butyrate- producing bacteria and probiotics can be successfully used to manage food allergies ibd and even crc through an enhancement of mucosa barrier function and a reduction of intestinal inflammation 12 13. hence increasing butyrate- producing bacteria may aid in lowering crc occurrence.uncontrolled cell proliferation is known to be a hall- mark of cancer.

however the protective role and mechanisms of bs extract in inflammation-associated colon tumorgenesis is still unclear.the present study was aimed to evaluate the effects of bs extract on carcinogen azoxymethane aom and proinflam- matory reagent dss-induced colitis-associated colon cancer in icr mice.

statistical significance p  0.001 compared with the aomdss-treated group.effects of bs extract on aomdss-induced clinical signs and histopathological evaluation in vivoto study the efficacy of bs extract on alleviating infla mmation-associated colon cancer the aomdss carcino-genic model in icr mice was used.

1b p  0.01. based on these results bs extract were shown to pro- vide effects that alleviated colitis-associated cancer and tumor development.figure 4. dietary bs extract changed the taxonomic compo- sition of colonic bacterial com- munities in each group.

5. otherwise our results for the first time has demonstrated that the ben- eficial effect of bs extract on attenuating microbial dys- biosis in aomdss-induced colon cancer.

2009 59 225-249.bardou m. barkun a. n. martel m. obesity and colorectal cancer.

