hundreds of studies on mindfulness have been published in the past few years and almost all have reported positive findings 7. although these therapies benefit many patients their efficacy may be exaggerated by the large number of studies with small samples sizes and very varying definitions of response 8. many studies of these therapies have used designs that exaggerate the effect size of the interventions 910. few if any of the studies are designed with the capacity to compare efficacy with a true placebo response.

this review assesses the potential usefulness and limitations of the paradigm.methods a selective literature review was conducted to evaluate the current knowledge in clinical and preclinical brain-gut-microbiota interactions as related to psychiatric disorders.results most published studies in the field are preclinical and there is so far a lack of clinical studies.

preliminary studies in psychiatric populations support the view of a dysbiosis in some conditions but studies are often small scale and marred by potential confounding var- iables.

to date we have no well-conducted studies in clinical populations although there are some studies in healthy volunteers.

of the 142 articles on the gut microbiota and the brain 111 were reviews and 31 were experimental studies of which only 4 were human studies.

preclinical studies support the view that psychobiotics bacteria which when ingested in adequate amounts have a positive mental health benefit might be of use in treating some patients with mental health difficulties.

the mecha- nisms of signal transmission are complex and not fully elucidated but it is clear that they include neural endocrine immune and metabolic pathways 16-18. preclinical studies have implicated the vagus nerve as a fundamental neural route of communication between gut microbes in the periphery and centrally mediated behavioral effects as illustrated by the elimination of central lactobacillus rhamnosus effects after full truncal vagotomy 19. interestingly it has been demonstrated that individuals who underwent a full truncal vagotomy for treatment of peptic ulcer disease have a decreased risk for certain neurological disorders such as parkinson disease when they enter old age 20. the gut microbiota also regulates central neurotransmitters such as serotonin 5-ht by altering levels of precursors for example bifidobacterium infantis has been demonstrated to elevate plasma tryptophan levels and thus influence central 5-ht 21. tryptophan is the precursor of 5-ht and the human brain has limited storage capacity therefore requiring a continual replenishment from the intestine.

the authors conclude that further studies are necessary to elucidate the temporal and causal re- lationships between gut microbiota and depression and to evaluate the suitability of the microbiome as a biomarker.

in our study de- pressed patients had elevated cortisol output together with decreased fecal microbial richness and when rats were given a humanized mi- crobiota from depressed patients as opposed to healthy controls they developed a depressive phenotype from a behavioral and im- mune perspective 30.anxiety disordersthere are no published studies exploring the gut microbiota in any specific anxiety disorder.

color image is available only in online version www.psychosomaticmedicine.org.infection especially respiratory tract infection with group a b-hemolytic streptoccus 31. no studies of probiotics in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder have been undertaken although a rodent study suggests that l. rhamnosus might be effective 32.lyte et al.

the oxytocin recep- tor knockout mouse in behavioral tests has major deficits in social behavior 41 and small-scale studies in humans have shown that that intranasally administered oxytocin positively impacts social behavior.

an analysis by mayer and colleagues 12 concludes that there is a shortage of large comprehensive studies of the mi- crobiome in autism and one can only agree with this assessment.

furthermore the issue of which comes first is fundamental are these microbiota changes epiphenomenal induced by unusual diets seen in many individuals as a product of obsessional ruminations or are they core to the disease pathophysiology many studies to date fail to adequately address the heterogeneous aspect of this disorder.

future studies will need to do so if progress is to be made.

given this fact there has been recent focus on the microbiota in the disorder although no large-scale studies have yet been published.toxoplasma gondii the protozoa is known to cause major changes to the gut microbiota 47 and is an established environ- mental risk factor for schizophrenia 48. in mice it can radically alter behavior patterns resulting in reckless behavior in the presence of predators.

