future directions include investigations as to whethergut microbiota produce melatonin and as to whether variations in melatonin synthesis are evident across specific microbiota species.night-time breast milk feeding modulates the devel- opment of the infant gut gut-brain axis and immune system.variations in maternal melatonin production and content in breast milk modulate the infant gut and the susceptibility to an array of childhood and adult medical conditions as well as childhood and adult cognitive ability.the addition of melatonin would bring formula feed closer to the benefits of breast milk.premature infants would further benefit from the addition of melatonin to all feeds.the addition of choline and melatonin to formula feed would have additive or synergistic benefits especially in premature infants.the addition of melatonin to formula feed might lower sids risk.melatonin in breast milk modulates not only the immune response but also the effector path- ways involving alterations in the levels of specific trycats.the association of breast milk is mediated in part via the effects of melatonin and choline on depression susceptibility with the biological underpinnings of depression increasing the risk of a host of other medi- cal conditions.and how breast milk melatonin variations interact with the role of prenatal sleep disturbance linked to maternal stress depression and anxiety in the prena- tal period as well as postpartum depression require investigation.192 g. anderson et al.

probiotics also act to inhibit the levels of nf-kb activation 87 sug- gesting impacts on tl1a regulation.the evolution of human breastfeeding has resulted in a circadian modulation of the contents of breast milk including in the levels of breast milk melatonin 88. it is of note that many of the factors in breast milk can act to regulate melatonin suggesting that the varying breast milk constituents may differentially modulate levels of gut melatonin with relevance to bacterial swarming 38 as well as melatonin's maintenance of the gut barrier 39. for example breast milk constituents including tryptophan and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids inhibit monoamine oxidase and thereby increase seroto- nin availability as a precursor for the melatonergic path- ways 89 90. it is also notable that breastfeeding acts to attenuate the infant's hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal hpa axis response 91 which is likely to inhibit the chronic effects of cortisol that can increase monoamine190 g. anderson et al.

night- time breast milk is therefore likely to have higher antioxi- dant anti-inflammatory and immune regulatory effects 98 including as arising from the impact of breast milk melatonin in the infant's developing microbiome and gut permeability with consequences for immune system development which is significantly regulated by circa- dian factors 99. given the importance of the gut micro- biome to an array of childhood and adult-onset disorders 100 including metabolic dysregulation 101 night-time breast milk melatonin is likely to be of some importance to the etiology of a wide array of medical conditions includ- ing sids 7.many of the breast milk components that have been modeled as underpinning breastfeeding's biological ben- efits are regulated by melatonin 102 and nas 103 sug- gesting that maternal circadian melatonergic pathway activity will modulate the benefits of wider breast milk components.

these authors suggest that maternal cytotoxic t cells in breast milk are directed to the peyer's patches where they compensate for the infant's immature adaptive immune system especially against constant oral infectious risks that are evident postnatally 41. such work has provided impetus to the search for breastfeeding-driven alterations in the developing immune system in mediating human breastfeeding benefits.a multitude of immune-associated factors can be present and transferred in human breast milk including whole cells cytokines chemokines immunoglobulins igs lysozymes lactoferrin human milk oligosaccha- rides and microbiota as well as prebiotic glycans and various growth factors 42 43. these breast milk-derived factors are important due in part to their role in the infant's gastrointestinal and immune system develop- ment 44. as such alterations in the infant gut seems to be an important mediator of breastfeeding benefits.breastfeeding modulation of the gut and gut-brain axisrecent work by sordillo and colleagues in human infants revealed four underlying bacterial co-abundance groups the first predominantly composed of firmicutes lachno- spiraceaeclostridiales the second predominantly com- posed of proteobacteria klebsiellaenterobacter the third predominantly composed of bacteriodetes and the188 g. anderson et al.

the levels and ratio of these cytokines in breast milk may modulate many aspects of infant development including from their modulation of the infant's gut 61 with mater- nal intake of probiotics significantly regulating breast milk levels of cytokines and secretory iga 62. maternal gut microbiota by influencing the constituents of breast milk will therefore modulate the development of the infant gut including infantile colic and regurgitation 62 suggest- ing an across-generational gut bacteria communication.

a number of different chemokines are evident in breast milk 63.a multitude of growth factors are also evident in breast milk including bdnf glial cell line-derived neuro- trophic factor gdnf and nerve growth factor ngf 64 which along with the omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid dha show altera- tions in the breast milk of women with preeclampsia 65. preeclampsia is a risk factor for a wide array of offspring medical conditions including schizophrenia 66. levels of circulating serum bdnf in the infant positively corre- late with neurodevelopmental outcomes being proposed to contribute to the association of breastfeeding with off- spring cognition 67. dha levels also positively correlate with many markers of immune function in infants includ- ing when dha has been added to formula feed 68. both dha 69 and gdnf 70 contribute to the maintenance of the gut barrier.

over the course of development of the infant's immune system gut micro- biota eventually induce secreted iga siga 73 which given the importance of siga in the selection of beneficialand less beneficial microbiota is likely to be of some sig- nificance in the development of the gut and gut-brain axis 74. as to how these immune-regulatory factors in breast milk interact with the development of the infant's siga response and wider mucosal immunity is the subject of current investigation 75. the effects of such factors in breast milk may be even more important in premature infants 7.the neonate is highly dependent on the innate immune system in the first 6 months prior to the full maturation of the adaptive immune system which is also compensated for by increased activity of gamma-delta t cells 76 including in premature infants 77. as the adaptive immune system develops gamma-delta t cells continue to be significant modulators of gut responses including the activity levels of th1 and th17 cells with gamma-delta t cells being subject to negative feedback effects by regulatory t cells 78. consequently as well as breastfeeding modulating infant gamma-delta t cells responses breastfeeding may also epigenetically regulate the nature of gamma-delta t cell interactions with the adaptive immune system over the lifespan 79. it requires investigation as to whether this is mediated by alterations in the levels andor regulation of the tnf-like cytokine tl1a which is highly expressed in the gut 80 where it acts to regulate mucosal th1 th2 th17 and regulatory t cells 81 82 as well as gamma-delta t cells and the micro- biome 80. the induction of tl1a is via the activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b nf-kb 83 suggesting that the numerous factors that act to regulate nf-kb in breast milk including melatonin 84 dha 85 and ngf 86 may directly or via the growth of an optimized microbiome act to regulate tl1a.

overall alterations in the regulation of the melatonergic pathway will have significant impacts on the constituents of breast milk and therefore in the regulation of the infant gut and immune system.melatonin addition to formula feedthe role of melatonin in night-time breast milk and its influence on the other components of breast milk urgently requires further investigation including as to the role of the melatonergic pathways in the regulation of the infant gut and therefore on the developing gut-brain axis andg.

variation in the levels of maternal melatonin synthesis is also likely to be impor- tant to the general levels of wider breast milk circadian antioxidant and immune-associated beneficial factors as limited data would suggest 98. although highly likely to prove beneficial the addition of melatonin to breast milk would have to be investigated cautiously as it would be likely to modulate wider aspects of normal infant development.the addition of melatonin to formula feed may be most beneficial in premature infants paralleling the common addition of proteins fats and carbohydrates to breast milk for babies born preterm 107. the period to full term that is lost in premature infants would have been a period of high continuous exposure to placental melatonin perhaps indicating that all pretermer feeds should contain melatonin.

generally breastfeeding is associated with a significant decrease in an array of allergies 49. however the composition of human breast milk is a modulatory factor with infants receiving human milk with low lacto- n-fucopentaose-iii concentrations 60 mm being more likely to become affected with cow's milk allergy when compared to high lacto-n-fucopentaose-iii-containing milk 50. allergies are one means by which alterations in gut microbiota may modulate the gut-brain axis with relevance to an array of adult-onset disorders including dementia schizophrenia and bipolar disorder 51 52. chen and colleagues showed that a predisposition toward allergies increased the risk of hypertension dyslipidemia and diabetes mellitus among patients with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder 51. alterations in gut microbiota are strongly associated with the emergence of such metabolic syndrome-associated factors 53 with the adjunctive use of melatonin in the treatment of psychosis decreasing the emergence of such metabolic factors 54. as to whether these benefits of melatonin are mediated via the gut and the gut microbiome requires investigation in this patient group.

overall the specific compo- sition of breast milk is of importance to later alterations in the gut-brain axis and immune system responses.other aspects of breastfeeding may also be relevant for example some mothers with inactive secretor genes have altered human milk oligosaccharide composition and quantities in their breast milk.

in this article the overlooked role of melatonin and the melatonergic pathways in breast milk and in the regula- tion of wider breast milk components are reviewed.

the inclusion of the melatonergic pathways in the biological interactions of breast milk and gut development has sig- nificant theoretical and treatment implications as well as being important to the prevention of a host of infant- child- and adult-onset medical conditions.corresponding author george anderson crc scotland  london eccleston square london swiv 1pg ukail cathy vaillancourt inrs-armand-frappier institute and center for interdisciplinary research on well-being health society and environment cinbiose laval qc canadamichael maes deakin university department of psychiatry geelong australiarussel j. reiter ut health science centre san antonio tx usakeywords breastfeeding breast milk components gut- brain axis gut microbiota gut permeability infancy mel- atonin sudden infant death syndrome.introductionbreastfeeding is highly recommended with benefits for both infant and mother.

murine data indicates that maternal immune cells may act to compensate for the infant's inadequate adaptive immune system 41. cabinian and colleagues showed that breast milk leukocyte survival in the suckling infant can occur with most breast milk lymphocytes predominantly t lymphocytes and cytotoxic t cells establishing them- selves in specific intestinal areas called peyer's patches.

however in many non-western cultures breastfeeding is maintained until the infant is aged 1 year and above indicating that the demands on women in western culture are likely tounderpin their earlier cessation of breastfeeding rather than being an evolutionary derived process 1 8.the night-time rise in pineal melatonin increases cir- culating maternal melatonin levels which are transferred in the breast milk to the sucking infant along with nas and various melatonin metabolites 88. consequently night-time breast milk has higher levels of melatonergic pathway products that may among other effects act to entrain the infant's developing circadian rhythms.

