2015.each of these mother-infant characteristics has been described to influence the microbiota composition particularly in the smaller studies n  7-20. three of the larger studies n  133 n  90 and n  39 re- port no clear distinction in the breast milk microbiota based on stage of lactation prematurity or mode of delivery sakwinska et al.

2015. multiple components of breast milk contribute to these effects including human milk oligosaccharides which promote the growth of some microbes and lysozymes lactoferrin and antimicrobial peptides which inhibit the growth of others cacho and lawrence 2017. ad- ditionally breastfeeding is a source of a diverse range of microbes that are found both on the breast surface and within the mammary glands of lactating women fitzstevens et al.

in contrast the current study identified lgg in only3 breast milk samples collected at 10 d postpartumand none at 3 mo suggesting that breastfeeding cannot have been the source of lgg for the majority of infants who had this bacteria present in their stool samples.in previous randomized studies of maternal supple- mentation lactobacillus species have been recovered from breast milk in 12 to 53 of women after supple- mentation abrahamsson et al.

furthermore the development of atopic dermatitis was not convinc- ingly associated with individual genera or the overall composition of this microbiota.over the past 5 yr several studies have employedsequencing methods to characterize the breast milk or breastfeeding-associated microbiota and its association with mother-infant characteristics such as stage of lac- tation hunt et al.

information regarding antibiotic use and the presence of mastitis would have been particularly useful with re- spect to the observation that probiotic supplementation may promote stability of the breastfeeding-associated microbiota.another recurrent theme among some of the previoussmaller studies is the presentation of a core breast milk microbiota of between 6 and 12 otu or genera which are found in 90 to 100 of samples hunt et al.

indeed the lack of a core microbiota is consistent with the con- clusion of a recent systematic review which identified staphylococcus and streptococcus as the only genera to be repeatedly reported as dominant breast milk-related genera fitzstevens et al.

in the subgroup of 17 women with 16s rrna gene sequencing data probi- otic supplementation may have a positive influence on the stability of the breastfeeding-associated microbiota rr of stable breastfeeding-associated microbiota after probiotic supplementation 2.37 95 ci 0.94-5.97 fisher's exact p  0.050.breastfeeding-associated microbiota and atopic dermatitis in offspringfinally we considered the association between the general breastfeeding-associated microbiota and the development of atopic dermatitis.

these samples also had a greater number of observed species and diversity including more operational taxonomic units from the rothia veillonella granulicatella and methylbacterium genera.key words human milk probiotics atopic dermatitis microbiotaintroductionbreastfeeding is one of the major factors affecting the early development of the infant gut microbiota and weaning is associated with a shift in the gut microbiota toward a more adult-like composition wopereis et al.

through breastfeed- ing infants receive bioactive components that shape their microbiota while also being exposed to the breast milk and breast surface microbial communities.

a summary of these results formother-infant pairs with positive breast milk samples are presented in supplemental table s2 .breastfeeding-associated microbiota at different stages of lactationdue to low quantity and quality of bacterial dna in the breast milk samples not all samples were sequenced and fewer samples had sufficient reads to be included in further analysis.

2017. methodological differ- ences in sample collection and laboratory analysis are likely to influence the observed microbiota in our study and other published studies.our 16s rrna gene sequencing data probably repre-sent a combination of the breast milk and breast surface microbiotas because women were not provided with instructions for sterile collection.

on a technical note due to the low quantities of bacterial dna in breast milk samples future studies of the breast milk or breastfeeding-associated microbiota should consider starting with a greater volume of milk and establishing methods to maximize dna extraction from milk.in conclusion we find that maternal supplementationwith lgg la5 and bb-12 does not result in substan- tial transfer of these bacteria via breastfeeding.

we also assessed the general microbiota associ-ated with breastfeeding considered temporal trends and the relationships between the composition of the microbiota transferred during breastfeeding probiotic supplementation and atopic dermatitis.materials and methodsparticipant recruitment and sample collectionthis study analyzed 472 breast milk samples col- lected from 252 women participating in the propact trial.

these findings would also sug- gest that even if probiotic supplementation altered the breast milk microbiota the overall composition of the microbiota transferred during breastfeeding was not statistically significantly altered.

2017. culture-dependent and -inde- pendent techniques have demonstrated a dominance of bacteria belonging to the staphylococcus streptococcus and propionibacterium genera as well as the presence of lactic acid bacteria and bifidobacteria in breast milk fitzstevens et al.

