conventional mice also show high siali- dase activity interestingly the authors can readily detect free sialic acid indi- cating limited sialic acid consumption by the native commensals even when it is present in high quantities in the gut.

monitoring the levels of sialidase and free sialic acid in feces demonstrates a non-linear rela- tionship with free sialic acid levels pla- teauing at 25 of the enzyme activity.

the results reveal an imbalance that is exacerbated by antibiotics which can decrease sialic acid catabolism without a proportional impact on sialic acid production.

this fine-tuning of gene expression is especially important when studying genes whose products are either essential or toxic to the cell.to demonstrate the utility of their inducible system focustheir attention on understanding the kinetics of sialic acid release from the intestinal epithelium in the presence of sialidase producing gut commensals.

free sialic acid is a crucial nutrient that enables gut establishment by pathogens upon antibiotic treatment  .

understanding the enzyme ki- netics that regulate sialic acid liberation and its consumption by the gut mi- crobes in vivo will help in the identifica- tion of factors that govern this clinically relevant dynamic.

for this purpose the authors choose b.thetaiotaomicron a bacterium that liberates but does not utilize sialic acid using sialidase bt0455.

importantly this gene expres- sion is truly constitutive at all gut locations and under all culture conditions tested.

sequence- based studies especially of stool suffer the drawback that they lose critical infor- mation about gut biogeography which may hold important cues about bacterial functions.

for example distinct microbial signatures have been reported for mucosal versus lumen-associatedgutcommunities with nutrients microbial interactions and tolerance to various host factors thought to be key factors dictating this spatial het- erogeneity .the genetic system developed by opens the door for studying single-cell interactions and un- derstanding spatial organization of the gut microbiota.

co-gavaging results in equal abundance of the two strains in lumen and crypts however with sequen- tial introduction the strain gavaged at a later point is nearly absent from the gut lumen.

