however mice with enteritis exhibited a trend for higher p  0.073 quantities of butyrate in their feces than mice without enteritis and infected mice that were administered butyrate had higher p  0.050 concentrations of butyrate in their feces than mice administered pbs rectally.

mice that were not administered c. rodentium via gavage did not show symptoms of infection exhibit overt evidence of enteric epithelial cell hyperplasia or epithelial cell injury or show changes in mitotic activity goblet cell presence or crypt height with total average histopathologic scores of less than 1.30  0.25. in contrast all mice administered c. rodentium via gavage presented symptoms and signs of enteritis and exhibited substantially higher p  0.001 histopathologic scores  than mice without enteritis data not presented for all of the categories examined.

total scfa concentra- tions measured in feces were also higher p  0.020 in mice inoculated with c. roden- tium than in mice administered pbs via oral gavage and .fig 2 histopathologic changes in colonic tissue from mice inoculated with c. rodentium cr and rectally administered pbs bu0 or butyrate at concentrations of 80 mm bu80 and 140 mm bu140 averaged over peak and late infection.

mice with c. rodentium-induced enteritis that were administered butyrate gained weight faster p  0.002 than mice not administered butyrate at peak infection  but not at late infection or clearance p  0.53 data not presented.high butyrate concentrations decreased epithelial cell hyperplasia in mice with enteritis.

in contrast mice administered butyrate at a concentration of 80 mm exhibited a trend of increased p  0.062 expression of th2 il4 cytokines and of significantly increased p  0.050 expression of th1 ifni tnfo and th17 il22 cytokines in mice with enteritis  mice administered butyrate at concentrations of 100 mm and higher also exhibited increased p  0.050 expression of il1f.

high densities of gammaproteobacteria and enterobacteriaceae were associated with the mucosa in the distal colon of mice infected with c. rodentium compared to mice without enteritis and high densities of gammaproteobacteria were observed during late infection in mice with enteritis and administered 140 mm butyrate compared to those administered 0 mm butyrate and .

rectal administration of 140 mm butyrate to mice increased fecal concentrations of butyrate and increased food consumption and weight gain in mice infected with c. rodentium.

expression of il10 tgff and muc2 was elevated in noninfected mice administered butyrate in comparison to mice not administered butyrate.

rodentium-induced cell injury through enhanced expression of immune regulation and tissue repair mechanisms and increased the abundance of butyrate-producing bacteria in mice with enteritis.importance the study findings provide evidence that administration of butyrate in a dose-dependent manner can increase weight gain in infected mice enhance clearance of the infection reduce inflammation through altered cytokine expression and enhance tissue repair and mucus secretion.

for all treatments histopathologic changes were reduced over time p  0.005 in mice infected with c. rodentium.butyrate supplementation increased weight gain and feed consumption in mice with enteritis during peak infection.

at peak infection mice with enteritis that had been administered butyrate consumed more p  0.003 food than mice with enteritis that had not been administered butyrate .

averaged over time total pathological changes p  0.020 and epithelial cell hyperplasia levels p  0.023 were lower in mice with enteritis that had been administered butyrate at a concentration of 140 mm  than in mice not admin- istered butyrate.

increased p  0.054 mitotic activity was also observed in mice with enteritis that had been administered butyrate at 80 mm at peak infection compared to mice with enteritis not administered butyrate fig.

at peak and late infection mice with enteritis that had been admin- istered butyrate at a concentration of 140 mm exhibited increased accumulation of mucus in the colonic lumen and within goblet cells relative to mice administered pbs enemas  fig.

the adminis- tration of butyrate had no effect p  0.16 on expression of th1 ifni tnfo- th2 il4- and th17 il17a il22-associated cytokines or on expression of myd88 prg3 regiiii tff3 and tlr9 in mice without enteritis relative to mice that were not administered butyrate data not presented.

