samuel et al.demonstrated that nearly 80 of the more than 550 bacteria isolated from french substrates bigb and jub collections can individually support c. elegans growth samuel et al.

the characteristics of these effects their relevance for c. elegans fitness the presence of specific co-adaptations between microbiome members and the worm and the molecular underpinnings of microbiome-host interactions represent promising areas of future research for which the advantages of c. elegans as an experimental system should prove of particular value.keywords caenorhabditis elegans microbiome microbiota meta-analysis enterobacter gluconobacter pseudomonas ochrobactrumintroductionthe model organism c. elegans has been studied without its microbiomethe nematode caenorhabditis elegans is one of the main model species in the life sciences yet a surprisingly large percentage of more than 40 of the worm's gene repertoire is still without known function petersen et al.

2015. a likely reason is that this nematode is almost exclusively studied under highly artificial laboratory conditions using a single isolate the canonical strainn2 which shows substantial adaptations to the laboratory environment sterken et al.

frezal and felix 2015. in its natural habitat the nematode's microbiome here defined sensu lato including a gut microbial community and possibly also microbes physically associated with the c. elegans surface is likely a key determinant of life history petersen et al.

2015 in analogy to the fundamental role of the microbiota in the biology of all multicellular organisms examined to date mcfall-ngai et al.

bosch and miller 2016. until recently only very few studies had explored the interactions between c. elegans and microbes from its environment grewal 1991 grewal and wright 1992 venette and ferris 1998 avery and shtonda 2003 coolon et al.

2009 macneil et al.

2013 montalvo-katz et al.

this work has expanded our understanding of mechanism of innate immunity meisel and kim 2014 cohen and troemel 2015 dierking et al.

taking complementary approaches table 1 they explored for the first time the interactions of c. elegans with its associated community of microbes berg et al.

2016a dirksen et al.

2016 samuel et al.

we discuss the likely biological functions of the worm's microbiome and conclude by pointing to promising avenues for future research which exploit the advantages of c. elegans as an experimental and genetic model system.the c. elegans natural microbiometwo of the three c. elegans microbiome studies examined the natural microbial environments of wild c. elegans table 1 dirksen et al.

2016 samuel et al.

samuel et al.

