by cs supplementation may be also responsible for the reduction of c180 and increase of pufa as observed by the linear positive correlation with c180 and atable 1  effects of camelina seed supplementation at two dietary ether extract levels on succinate formate and lactate concentrations mm in a dual-flow continuous culture system.itemtreatment1semp- value21 ncs5 non-camelina seed inclusion at 5 dietary ee ncs8 non-camelina seed inclusion at 8 dietary ee cs5 low camelina seed inclusion at 5 dietary ee cs8 high camelina seed inclusion at 8 dietary ee.

there was no interaction of cs and dietary ee levels on the richness and diversity of ruminal bcc.effects of cs supplementation and dietary ee levels on the relative abundance of families are presented in supplementary table 5. dietary cs supplementation decreased the relative abundance of lachnospiraceae p  0.01 ruminococcaceae p  0.05 paraprevotellaceae p  0.05 and fibrobacteraceae p  0.05 but increased the relative abundance of erysipelotrichaceae p  0.01 in both liquid and solid fractions .

dietary ee at 8 decreased the relative abundance of prevotellaceae p 0.02 in the liquid fraction.effects of cs supplementation and dietary ee levels on the relative abundance of genera are presented in supplementary table 6. dietary cs supplementation decreased the relative abundance of butyrivibrio p  0.05  but had no effect on the relative abundance of pseudobutyrivibrio  in both liquid and solid fractions.

the relative abundance of prevotella p 0.02 was decreased by 8 dietary ee level in the liquid fraction.dietary cs supplementation increased the relative abundance of otus belonging to families veillonellaceae anaerovibrio selenomonas ruminantium and megasphaera erysipelotrichaceae bulleidia succinivibrionaceae succinivibrio and ruminobacter and s24-7 but decreased the relative abundance of otus belonging to families ruminococcaceae ruminococcus fibrobacteraceae fibrobacter succinogenes and lachnospiraceae butyrivibrio and pseudobutyrivibrio in both liquid and solid fractions  .effects of cs supplementation and two ee levels on the concentrations of vfa and long chain fatty acids and their correlations with ruminal bccdietary cs supplementation was showed to increase of propionate valerate and c4 and c5-branched chain vfa but decreased the concentration of total vfa and acetate in our companion study brandao et al.

the genera succinivibrio butyrivibrio pseudobutyrivibrio and megasphaera represented 4.1 3.9 2.7 and 1.9 of the total sequences across all the treatments respectively supplementary table 3.3.effects of cs supplementation and two ee levels on bacterial community compositionsthe liquid-associated and solid-associated ruminal bcc were significantly different in both composition and structure composition and abundance of ruminal bcc supplementary figure 1 and table 4. the nmds plots showed that ruminal bcc with cs supplementation were clearly separated from ruminal bcc without cs supplementation in both liquid and solid fractions p  0.01  indicating that ruminal bcc was altered by cs supplementation.

according to the  total dietary fat should not exceed 6-7 of dietary dm for lactating cows therefore it was expected that the ruminal bcc would be different between 5 and 8 dietary ee.

therefore further studies in vivo may be required to test the difference of dietary ee levels on ruminal bcc.even though no difference were found in the ruminal bcc by the two dietary ee levels we found that the relative abundance of prevotellaceae prevotella was decreased by 8 dietary ee level in liquid fraction.

the permanova was run to determine the differences in community structure and composition between the phases liquid or solid cs treatment with and without and dietary ee level low and high by using the adonis function in vegan with the benjamini-hochberg correction for multiple comparisons when necessary.factorial effects -- cs supplementation dietary ee levels and the interactions of the two -- on the community diversity and richness in both of liquid and solid phase were assessed using the mixed procedure of sas 9.4 software cary nc united states.

dietary ee levels and the interaction of cs and dietary ee levels had no effects on the concentrations of any of the short-chain organic acids.correlation analysis results between the concentrations of short-chain organic acids and the relative abundance of ruminal bacterial genera are presented on supplementary table 7.1. based on the correlation analysis the relative abundance of genera that were decreased by cs supplementation i.e.

succinivibrio and megasphaera had a linear positive correlation with the concentration of propionate and succinate p  0.01 .in our companion study dietary cs supplementation was decreased the concentrations of c180 p  0.01 and the total saturated fatty acids p  0.01 but increased the concentrations of c182 n-6 p  0.01 c182 tran-10 cis-12 p  0.01 totalunsaturated fa p  0.01 monounsaturated fa and pufa p  0.01. the concentration of c183 n-3 and erucic acid c221n-9 were much higher in the 8 dietary ee level when cs was included in the diets brandao et al.

therefore prevotella species are more sensitive to dietary fat supplementation and were reduced by greater dietary ee level 8 ee.

thus dietary cs supplementation could be energetically beneficial to dairy cows by increasing the propionate-producing bacteria and useful at suppressing ruminal bacteria associated with bh however attention should be given to avoid effects of cs supplementation on suppressing cellulolytic bacteria.author contributionsproject acquisition xd af gs and pw.

81 471-481. counotte g. h. m. prins r. a. janssen r. h. a. m. and debie m. j. a.

2 541-551. ebrahimi m. rajion m. a. adeyemi k. d. jafari s. jahromi m. f. oskoueian e. et al.

dietary ingredients and chemical compositions are present in supplementary table 1. dietary ingredients were ground to pass a 2 mm screen wiley mill thomson scientific.

