two-sided probability p val- ues 0.05 were considered significant.resultspathogenic colonization properties in c. jejuni infected conventionally colonized nod2-- micein order to investigate the role of nod2 during c. jejuni infection of mice harboring a conventional microbiota nod2-- and corresponding wt control mice were perorally infected with 109 cfu c. jejuni strain 81-176 on three consecutive days days 0 1 and 2. within 24 h following the latest infection viable c. jejuni could be detected in 60.0 of fecal samples derived from nod2-- mice with low median loads of approximately 102 cfu per g feces only fig.

slightly higher percent- ages of c. jejuni infected nod2-- mice were associated with higher commensal intestinal e. coli loads as com- pared to wt controls.microscopic sequelae and pro-inflammatory cell responses upon c. jejuni infection of conventional nod2-- mice following c. jejuni infection mice of either genotype were virtually uncompromized from their clinical aspect.

b. hence large intestinal il-6 secretion as well as tnf and il-18 mrna levels were higher in nod2-- as compared to wt mice upon pathogenic infection whereas c. jejuni induced colonic il-22 down-regulation occurred in wt mice only.translocation of intestinal commensal speciesto extra-intestinal compartments following c. jejuniinfection of conventional nod2-- micewe next addressed whether c. jejuni infection was asso- ciated with translocation of viable bacteria originating from the commensal intestinal microbiota to mln and extra-intestinal compartments.

the pathogen colonized both wt and nod2-- mice only sporadically until day 14 post infection p.i.. however the slightly higher prevalence of c. jejuni in nod2-- mice was accompanied by higher intestinal escherichia coli loads known to facilitate c. jejuni coloniza- tion.

interestingly c. jejuni induced colitis was more pronounced in nod2-- il-10-- mice as compared to il-10-- mice.

we here elucidated the role of nod2 during murine c. jejuni infection in more detail.results conventionally colonized nod2 deficient nod2-- mice and corresponding wildtype wt counterparts were perorally infected with c. jejuni strain 81-176 on three consecutive days.

b.given that elevated intestinal loads of commensal e. coli facilitate c. jejuni colonization  we next assessed fecal e. coli densities in nod2-- and wt mice imme- diately before and 14 days after c. jejuni infection.

wildtype wt white circles and nod2-- mice black circles were perorally infected with c. jejuni strain 81-176 on three consecutive days d0 1 and 2. the average number of colonic a t lympho- cytes positive for cd3 b regulatory t cells treg positive for foxp3 c b lymphocytes positive for b220 and d neutrophils positive for mpo7 from six high power fields hpf 400 magnification per animal was determined microscopically in immunohistochemically stained colonic paraffin sections at day 14 following c. jejuni infection.

whereas su and colleagues had pretreated il-10-- mice with broad-spectrum antibiotics prior c. jejuni infection we here investigated wt animals harboring a conventional microbiota.in line with our previous reports also in the present study c. jejuni infected conventionally colonized mice of either genotype were neither clinically compromized by wasting or abundance of bloody diarrhea for instance nor could microscopic sequelae such as colonic epithe- lial apoptosis be observed at necropsy - .

numbers of mice harboring c. jejuni out of the total number of analyzed animals are given in parentheses.data were pooled from four independent experiments.colonic mucin-2 mrna expression levels in c. jejuni infected conventionally colonized nod2-- mice.

innate immune responses were less distinctly induced in c. jejuni infected nod2-- versus wt mice as indicated by lower colonic numbers of neutrophils in the former.conversely adaptive immune cell counts including t lymphocytes were higher in large intestines of nod2-- as com- pared to wt mice that were paralleled by increased colonic il-6 secretion and higher tnf and il-18 mrna expression levels in large intestines of the former.

notably large intestinal mrna expression levels of mucin-2 constituting a pivotal factor involved in epithelial barrier integrity were comparable in naive and c. jejuni infected mice of either genotype.conclusion nod2 is involved in the well-balanced regulation of innate and adaptive pro-inflammatory immune responses of conventional mice upon c. jejuni infection.keywords campylobacter jejuni nucleotide-oligomerization-domain-2 nod2 in vivo infection intestinal microbiota colonization resistance il-23il-22il-18 axis pro-inflammatory immune responses bacterial translocationbackgroundhuman campylobacter infections are currently on the rise as indicated by increased prevalence and incidence rates in developed as well as developing countries  .

whereas conventionally colonized mice expell the pathogen from their intestinal tract within a few days following peroral c. jejuni chal- lenge modification of the murine intestinal microbiota by antibiotic treatment and reassociation with a human intestinal microbiota for instance results in stable path- ogenic infection and subsequently distinct pro-inflam- matory responses mimicking key features of human campylobacteriosis   c. jejuni infection was further facilitated by pathophysiological conditions associated with increased intestinal commensal enterobacterial i.e.

whether nod2 is also capable of sensing other microbial struc- tures or participates as a mere signaling partner is under current debate .in the present study we addressed the role of nod2 in c. jejuni infection of mice harboring a conventional intestinal microbiota and surveyed potential c. jejuni induced nod2 dependent pro-inflammatory sequelae and bacterial translocation from the commensal intesti- nal microbiota to extra-intestinal compartments.methodsethics statementall animal experiments were conducted according to the european guidelines for animal welfare 201063eu with approval of the commission for animal experiments headed by the landesamt fur gesundheit und soziales lageso berlin registration number g013510.

c. jejuni infection however resulted in down-regulation of colonic il-22 expression in wt animals only whereas neither il-23p19 as well-known master regulator of mucosal immune responses  nor il-18 amplifying il-22 production during intestinal inflammation  were affected upon infection which is well in line with our very recent results derived in c. jejuni infected conventional mice as well .epithelial barrier integrity is of utmost importance for limiting bacterialpathogenic spread from the intesti- nal compartment to extra-intestinal including systemic compartments with potentially fatal consequences for the host .

