23. in leukemia and hsct patients receipt of particular antibiotics such as metronidazole was associated with decreased microbial diver- sity and consequently increased intestinal domination by pathogens that commonly cause hospital-acquired and blood- stream infections 24-27. similarly it was also found that broad-spectrum antibiotic receipt specifically carbapenems was associated with loss of bacterial diversity in both the oral and stool microbiomes of patients with acute myeloid leuke- mia during induction chemotherapy which was in turn cor- related with higher subsequent infectious risk in the 90 days after neutrophil recovery 28. moreover a considerable body of evidence exists that clearly links high rates of clostridium difficile c. difficile infections in cancer patients particularly those undergoing hsct to disruption of the normal intestinal flora due to a combination of repeated use of antibiotics immunosuppression and cancer therapy 24.blockade immunotherapy and that the presence of bacteroides fragilis was critical to the antitumor effect 14. recently it has also been discovered that specific microbiota shape innate and adap- tive immune system influencing the pd-1-pd-l1 axis 15 16 although no studies have specifically shown the effects of anti- biotic treatment on the microbiota and anti-pd-l1 treatment response.in addition to influencing immunotherapy response antibi- otic-treated animals also display significantly reduced tumor regression and survival in cytotoxic therapy scenarios such as oxaliplatin-treated lymphoma-bearing mice 13. likewise viaud and colleagues observed that receipt of antibiotics with activity against gram-positive bacteria reduced th lymphocyte and lymphoma responses in mice treated with cyclophospha- mide 17. beyond animal models recently it was shown that patients being treated with cyclophosphamide for chronic lymphocytic leukemia and cisplatin for relapsed lymphoma who also received anti-gram-positive antibiotics had signifi- cantly lower overall response rate and survival 18.furthermore it is becoming increasingly clear that antimi- crobial-induced microbiome disruption is also a key factor in cancer treatment-related toxicities.

the potential dramatic impact of antimicrobials in oncology became clear when infec- tions replaced hemorrhage and leukemia itself as the leading cause of death among acute leukemia patients in the 1960s 1. by the early 1970s the development of methicillin for peni- cillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus and carbenicillin for pseu- domonas aeruginosa p. aeruginosa meant serious infections could be effectively treated even amid persistent neutropenia 2. as a result neutropenic fever became an oncologic emer- gency demanding the rapid administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics that markedly improved the outcomes of neutro- penic patients with proven infections particularly due to p. aeruginosa 3 4. eventually the high rates of morbidity and mortality associated with infections in patients with hemato- logic malignancies led to large randomized controlled trials that demonstrated that prophylactic administration of a fluo-1department of infectious diseases infection control and employee health the university of texas md anderson cancer center houston texas.

indeed from a prognostic standpoint the composition of the microbiome prior to chemotherapy has been demonstrated to be predictive of infectious outcomes for patients with acute myelogenous leuke- mia and lymphoma 28 29. similarly the diversity of the gastrointestinal microbiome at the time of engraftment following hsct is associated with risk of development of and mortality from gvhd 20 30. finally the abundance of the bacteroidetes phylum was recently correlated with resistance to the develop- ment of immune-mediated colitis in patients with melanoma treated with the immune checkpoint inhibitor ipilimumab 31. thus these data suggest the importance of developing probability indices that risk stratify cancer patients with respect to micro- biome measurements and other clinical factors such as antimi- crobial administration 32-34. predictive risk scores that incor- porate microbiome measurements would need to include factors such as diversity metrics absence of beneficial microbes or micro- bial byproducts i.e.

for example the unmet need to better distinguish c. difficile-colonized patients from patients with c. difficile colitis is leading to a mass overdiagnosis and overtreatment 37. it is highly likely that knowledge of micro- biome interactions with the host will play an essential role in answering these needs.the microbiome as a possible direct intervention tooldirect manipulation of the microbiome also offers a possibility for improving cancer therapy minimizing toxicities and mitigat- ing the impact of infectious diseases.

for example how useful are single-micro- biome measurements given the microbiome inter- and intrapa- tient variability particularly when ill although the majority of oncology patients lose microbial diversity during chemotherapy interpatient changes are highly variable with some patients maintaining a relatively preserved microbiota whereas others exhibit microbiome domination by one or two pathogens 25 28. gaining knowledge regarding the factors that drive such drastically different microbiota trajectories is essential to design- ing and targeting microbiota preservation strategies.

 perspectivecan consideration of the microbiome improve antimicrobial utilization and treatment outcomes in the oncology patientjessica r. galloway-pena1 robert r. jenq23 and samuel a. shelburne13abstractthe need to provide effective and timely antimicrobial treat- ment to cancer patients with infections is well recognized but tempered by preliminary but accumulating evidence that anti- biotic-induced microbiome dysbiosis affects cancer therapy response noninfectious toxicities and infectious complications.

given only a minority of empirically treated cancer patients are proven to have a true bacterial infection it is important to consider the potential negative consequences of extensive broad-spectrum antimicrobial use on the commensal microbiota.

we antici- pate that the emerging knowledge regarding the role of the microbiota in the health of cancer patients may cause a reappraisal of the manner in which antibiotics are used in the oncologic setting and how microorganisms are viewed by oncologists.

clin cancer res 2313 3263-8. c2017 aacr.see related commentary by fessler and gajewski p. 3229historical beneficial aspects of antimicrobials in the cancer populationantimicrobial therapy has markedly improved the outcome of cancer patients over the past 50 years.

in these patients depletion of native commen- sals by antibacterial prophylaxis and empirical treatment of neutropenic fever is compounded by mucosal barrier injury from cytotoxic chemotherapy leading to proliferation of path- ogenic bacteria translocation across disrupted intestinal epi- thelium and subsequent infection fig.

for example administra- tion of antibiotics to mice undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation hsct significantly increased the severity of ghvd and mortality 19 20. consistent with murine data investigators found receipt of antibiotics with potent anti- anaerobic activity was associated with increased gvhd risk and gvhd-related mortality following allogeneic hsct in patients 19 21. in addition fluoroquinolone receipt low microbial diversity and gammaproteobacteria domination of fecal microbiota were predictive of pulmonary complications among hsct recipients 22.antibiotic-induced microbial dysbiosis is also a crucial aspect in the cancer patient's risk for infectious toxicities.

through these types of examinations one could envi- sion the microbiome being incorporated as a baseline screening tool to predict which patients may respond better to cancer therapy are at risk for treatment-related toxicity or are at risk for infectious complications.microbiome composition measurements may also assist with optimizing the choice and duration of antimicrobials in the cancer patient with respect to maintaining beneficial commensal microorganisms.

for instance we advocate for trials to assess whether rapid de-escalation of broad-spectrum antimicrobials can be done safely in patients with negative cultures in the setting of asymptomatic febrile neutropenia.

in addition investigating the use of more narrow-spectrum antibiotics as well as shorter duration of therapy for infections are needed as it has been suggested that the number of antibiotics and total antibiotic exposure is linked with recurrent infectious complications in leukemia patients 35. moreover pharmacokinetic studies that link concentrations of antimicrobials in the intestinal lumen to effects on the microbiome are needed.

such data could be used to design interventions to minimize the off-target effects of systemically administered antimicrobials on the commensal microbiota.microbiome measurements also raise the possibility to extend antimicrobial administration in oncology patients into the arena of personalized medicine.

