3 205-207letter to the editorcan you cause inflammatory bowel disease with fecal transplantationa 31-patient case-series of fecal transplantation using stool from a donor who later developed crohn's diseasemonika fischer mohamad bittar eliseo papa zain kassam and mark smithagastroenterology and hepatology department indiana university indianapolis in usa bbroad institute massachusetts institute of technology cambridge ma usa copenbiome medford ma usaarticle history received 10 october 2016 revised 31 december 2016 accepted 11 january 2017 keywords fecal microbiota transplant crohn's disease gut microbiota stool donor transmissibleto the editordespite rigorous donor screening the possibility that transmission of chronic inflammatory disorders could occur as a consequence of fecal microbiota transplan- tation fmt remains a serious potential concern.

while our current understanding of the etiology of crohn's dis- ease emphasizes the defective recognition tolerance or elimination of microbiota the causal role of irregular gut microbiota in the development of crohn's disease is unclear.despite extensive research the chicken or egg conundrum persists do abnormal microbiota elicit and sustain an inappropriate immune response in genetically susceptible hosts or do unrelenting inflammatory processes create a pathologic milieu that selects for abnormal microbial communities promis- ing data from fmt studies in ulcerative colitis suggest that microbial alterations can induce remission in inflammatory bowel disease ibd raising the concern that unfavorable changes could also cause disease in other contexts.while there is a paucity of human data evaluating the risks of such unfavorable changes animal studies suggest that in genetically predisposed germ-free mice transfer of dysbiotic microbiota can induce terminal ileitis or colitis.we report a novel case-series of patients who received fmt for recurrent clostridium difficile infec- tions from a donor who was later diagnosed withileocolonic crohn's disease.

in crohn's disease dysbiotic gut microbiota are charac- terized by decreases in bacteroidetes and firmicutes with increases in gammaproteobacteria.

moreover when banking universal donor material consideration should be given to quarantining before usage - as practiced by stool banks - to allow for identification of latent disease and to increase the safety of fmt.disclosure of potential conflicts of interesteliseo papa mark smith and zain kassam are consultants for finch therapeutics.

fecal microbiota transplantation induces remis- sion in patients with active ulcerative colitis in a random- ized controlled trial.

treating clostridium difficile infection with fecal microbiota transplantation.

a meta-analysis of the utility of c-reactive protein erythrocyte sedimentation rate fecal calprotectin and fecal lactoferrin to exclude inflammatory bowel dis- ease in adults with ibs.

five patients had pre-existing ibd 3 ulcerative colitis 2 crohn's disease and 7 were immunocompromised .

among the pre-existing ibd patients 1 uc patient and 1 crohn's patient had significant improve- ment in clinical and endoscopic disease activity post- fmt while 3 had unchanged ibd symptoms.

fischer et al.table 1. patients on immunosuppressive medication for ibd or other conditions.type of ibdunderlying conditionimmunosuppressive medicationileal crohn'sadalimumabulcerative pancolitisadalimumabulcerative pancolitisinfliximab azathioprinecolonic crohn'sadalimumab 6-mercaptopurineulcerative pancolitisprednisone azathioprineliver transplanttacrolimusliver transplanttacrolimusstool sample was collected from the donor before his first donation and after the diagnosis of crohn's disease while already in clinical remission on adalimu- mab and from 10 recipients post-fmt.

informed consent was obtained for this case-series.orcideliseo papareferenceskostic ad xavier rj gevers d. the microbiome in inflam- matory bowel disease current status and the future ahead.

dysbiotic gut microbiota causes transmissible crohn's disease-like ileitis inde- pendent of failure in antimicrobial defence.

he was evaluated using the full-length donor history questionnaire dhq and underwent blood and stool testing per the fmt working group guidelines.

in january 2014 the donor developed bloody diarrhea with elevated fecal calprotectin of 614 mgg and was diagnosed with mod- erately severe ileocolonic crohn's with discontinuous areas of ulceration in the terminal ileum and rectosig- moid colon on colonoscopy.

stool composi- tion was compared with that of 89 healthy controls participants of the openbiome donor program.

