the human microbiome is a term that encompasses all microorganisms living in and on the human body as well as the interactions that have arisen from the co-evolution of microbial life with other microbes and with us their human hosts.

a significantly higher number of low dis- ease activity das28  3.2 probiotic group members had a moderate eular response four than did placebo group members none p  0.03. a higher number of moderate disease activity das28  3.2- 5.1 probiotic group mem- bers also had a moderate eular response four than did placebo group members one but the difference was not73 page 6 of 7curr rheumatol rep 2017 19 73significant p  0.19. however the minimum important difference in the das28 is often defined as 1.2 units  while the mean change for the probiotic group was 0.49 and for the control group 0.09 units.

curr rheumatol rep 2017 19 73 doi 10.1007s11926-017-0696-ycan probiotic supplements improve outcomes in rheumatoid arthritisannemarie schorpion1  sharon l. kolasinski1published online 2 november 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstractpurpose of review the purpose of this review is to frame the discussion of the potential use of probiotics for the manage- ment of rheumatoid arthritis ra in the historical and scien- tific context linking the human microbiota to the etiology pathogenesis and treatment of ra.

several years later the second human genome project followed hav- ing been called to specifically identify the microbial genomes associated with the human body and to use this data to fill in crucial gaps in knowledge of its potential role in normal hu- man functioning as well as in the etiology of disease .of the various microbial communities that our bodies host the largest resides in the colon.

there were no signifi- cant differences in levels of il-1a il-1b kl-6 il-8table 1summary of literature on probiotic use in human subjects with rheumatoid arthritismandel d.r.

no statistically significant change inclinical outcomes measures though tjc sjc patient and physician ga improved among probiotic usersno statistically significant improvement in inflammatory biomarkersborderline statistically significant improvement in pain scale in haq-dithough a trend towards reduction in pro-inflammatory cytokines was seen among patients taking probiotics thisreduction was generally greater among the placebo group with statistically significant difference in favor of the placebo group seen in il-15 il-17 gm-csf andmip-1a.no statistically significant difference in clinical outcomes though physician ga patient pain and haq improved more among probiotic users than within the placebo group acr-20 response was reached by 20 of probiotics users vs 7 within the placebo group.yesyes in favor of placebo group onlyalipour b.et al.

for instance in the probiotic group mean hs-crp normal 0- 3 mgl fell from 3.1 to 2.8 mgl while in the control group it rose from 2.3 to 3.5 mgl p  0.001. the mean number of tender joints was reported as zero at the start and end of the study for both groups but the mean difference was reported to be statistically significant p  0.026. placebo recipients had a mean of a single swollen joint at the beginning and end of the study probiotic recipients had a mean of zero at both time points and this difference was reported as significant p  0.034. no subject in either group had a good response measured by european league against rheumatism eular criteria.

the hs-crp fell in the probiotic group 7.27 - 6.24 to6.61 - 6.03 p  0.25 and rose in the control group 6.02 - 5.78 to 9.09 - 7.46 p  0.001 and the difference was statistically significant p  0.001. the insulin level and homeostatic model assessment b homa-b a mea- sure of beta cell function declined in the probiotic group and rose in the control group p  0.3. there were no significant changes in vas pain fasting glucose homa- estimated insulin resistance homa-ir quantitative in- sulin sensitivity check index total ldl hdl or vldl cholesterol triglycerides nitric oxide total antioxidant capacity total glutathione or malondialdehyde.

nevertheless the broad worldwide interest in enhancing our understand- ing of the beneficial role of the massive population of or- ganisms that reside on and in us will likely continue to drive the search for new ways to manipulate that popula- tion to improve human health.compliance with ethics standardsconflict of interest the authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.human and animal rights and informed consent this article does not contain any studies with human or animal subjects performed by any of the authors.curr rheumatol rep 2017 19 73page 7 of 7 73referencespapers of particular interest published recently have been highlighted asof importance of major importance1.

as the volume of data has expanded concerning the positive effects of probiotics in animal models of arthritis so has the desire to translate these benefits into human clinical practice.

20117569-78. provides both historical perspective and up to date summary of links between the gas- trointestinal tract and experimental arthritis and human disease.hunter w. oral sepsis as a cause of disease.

effects of probiotic therapy on the activity and activation of mild rheumatoid arthritis--a pilot study.

201417519-27.vaghef-mehrabany e alipour b homayouni-rad a sharif sk asghari-jafarabadi m zavvari a. probiotic supplementation im- proves inflammatory status in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

clinical and metabolic response to probiotic supplementation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial.

2011176cr347-54.vaghef-mehrabany e homayouni-rad a alipour b sharif sk vaghef-mehrabany l alipour-ajiry s. effects of probiotic supple- mentation on oxidative stress indices in women with rheumatoid arthritis a randomized double-blind clinical trial.

