36 3 73-74 2017can vitamin k synthesis altered by dysbiosis of microbiota be blamed in the etiopathogenesis of venous thrombosissuna aydin11department of cardiovascular surgery education and research hospital health science university elazig campus 23100 elazig turkeyreceived march 7 2017 accepted april 6 2017 published online in j-stage april 21 2017venous thrombosis deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism is seen in one out of 1000 individuals in the general adult population however as age advances this rate goes up to one in 100 individuals and the mortality rate stands at 30 if the etiopathogenesis of thrombosis can be clarified the rate of morbidity and mortality can be reduced.

currently the etiopathogenesis of thrombosis is explained by virchow's triad which includes i changes in blood flow deceleration of blood flow leads to the impairment of laminar blood flow being overweight being bedbound having congestive heart failure and age-related alterations ii changes in vessel walls conditions arising from traumas and inflammatory and degenerative diseases and iii coagulation abnormalities congenital hypercoagulation protein c s and antithrombin iii deficiency and acquired hyper- coagulation oral contraceptive pregnancy nephrotic syndrome systemic lupus erythematosus inflammatory intestinal disease malignancies and their treatment 2 3. although changes in blood flow and vessel walls play major roles in the etiopathogenesis of thrombosis coagulation abnormalities appear to figure more prominently in the underlying mechanism of the disease of the natural anticoagulants synthesized in the liver proteins c and s have to go through a carboxylation process involving vitamin k therefore vitamin k a fat-soluble essential vitamin plays a key role in maintaining normal coagulation.

dysbiosis or impairment of the normal composition of the microbiota has been reported to be associated with many diseases including cancer and inflammatory intestinal diseases 7 8. if the number of vitamin k-synthesizing bacteria in the microbiota increases for any reason or decreases to reduce vitamin k synthesis as a compensatory mechanism vitamin k levels will be elevated even if dietary vitamin k intake is restricted and venous thrombosis will occur.

given that the role of the microbiota in the development of venous thrombosis has not been studied yet it can be anticipated that by analyzing the amount of vitamin k originating from the microbiota mortality associated with venous thrombosis can be reduced.referencescushman m. 2007. epidemiology and risk factors for venous thrombosis.

cc-by-nc-nd 4.0 peas soybean seeds meat beef liver eggs grains and dairy products are rich in vitamin k 5 6. about 80 to 85 of vitamin k is absorbed by the terminal ileum the other the major source of vitamin k aside from the diet is microbiota a newly recognized organ in the body skin and the gastrointestinal system are the primary locations of the microbiota.

one reason why we cannot elevate the international normalized ratio despite coumadin administration in certain cases may be that the excessive vitamin k synthesized by the microbiota can be absorbed more than usual along the intestinal lymph vessels together with lipids and thus affect the coagulation cascade consequently an overall evaluation of the information above indicates that when the doses of anticoagulation medications are to be decided the possible role of the members of the microbiota in the development of venous thrombosis and whether there is an increase in the amount of vitamin k-synthesizing bacteria should be analyzed in this74s.

aydinway even after the prevention of venous thrombosis healthy microbiota transplantation can be performed if necessary to impede vitamin k of microbial origin.

there is a delicate balance between the host and microbiota based on good-neighborliness however a number of factors including dietary habits use of antibiotics and chemotherapeutics 5-fluorouracil over 5 ugml prevents the reproduction of bacteria and personal hygiene bring about changes in the populations of the microbiota to illustrate several forms of vitamin k menaquinones are synthesized by bacteroides enterobacter veillonella and eubacterium lentum which are the usual members of the microbiota intestinal microflora.

2010. virchow's contribution to the understanding of thrombosis and cellular biology.

clin med res 8 168-172. esmon ct. 2009. basic mechanisms and pathogenesis of venous thrombosis.

