Apart from in colorectal and pancreatic cancer the protein is also overexpressed in ovarian cancer osteosarcoma lung can- cer oral squamous cell carcinoma salivary gland carci- noma bladder cancer breast cancer and esophageal cancer for an overview see .

originating from the cervicovaginal microbiome or metabolome.Keywords Biomarker  Cervical vaginal fluid  Cervical cancerCervical cancer and the need for a bedside assayCurrent diagnosis of cervical cancer the need for triageConsidering cervical cancer is the fourth most common female cancer worldwide it remains a significant global problem  indicating that better screening and adequate interventions are necessary to reduce mortality.

molecules from different cervical cancer pathways cancer- vs. immune-related molecules proteins vs. methylated nucleic acids such that the assay is based on a broad series of independent recognition points.CVF as a candidate body fluid for cervical cancer screening by self-testingSelf-samplingIn 2014 Arbyn et al.

investigated the DNA methylation in vaginal fluid samples at more than 480000 CpG sites and found a DNA methylation signature for cervical and endometrial cancer which resulted in a ROC area under the curve between0.75 and 0.83.DNA methylation of miRNAMicroRNAs have not only been detected in the serum or plasma of patients who are precancerous for cervical cancer cervical adenocarcinoma and squamous cell cancer  they have also been detected in CVF.

Eur J Gynaecol Oncol 353211-218Ronco G Dillner J Elfstrom KM Tunesi S Snijders PJ Arbyn M et al 2014 Efficacy of HPV-based screening for prevention of invasive cervical cancer follow-up of four European randomised controlled trials.

Cancer 1026345-347Cuzick J Clavel C Petry KU Meijer CJ Hoyer H Ratnam S et al 2006 Overview of the European and North American studies on HPV testing in primary cervical cancer screening.

Int J Cancer 11951095-1101Saslow D Solomon D Lawson HW Killackey M Kulasingam SL Cain J et al 2012 American Cancer Society American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology and American Society for Clinical Pathology screening guidelines for the pre- vention and early detection of cervical cancer.

BMJ Open 68e011022Snijders PJ Verhoef VM Arbyn M Ogilvie G Minozzi S Banzi R et al 2013 High-risk HPV testing on self-sampled versus clinician-collected specimens a review on the clinical accuracy and impact on population attendance in cervical cancer screen- ing.

J Clin Microbiol 50123937-3943Lenselink CH de Bie RP van Hamont D Bakkers JM Quint WG Massuger LF et al 2009 Detection and genotyping of human papillomavirus in self-obtained cervicovaginal samples by using the FTA cartridge new possibilities for cervical cancer screening.

Cancer 743893-899Widschwendter A Gattringer C Ivarsson L Fiegl H Schneitter A Ramoni A et al 2004 Analysis of aberrant DNA methylation and human papillomavirus DNA in cervicovaginal specimens to detect invasive cervical cancer and its precursors.

