this assessment provides the first findings describing the gut microbiota of andean bears and its relationship to their diet.materials and methodscollection of fecal samplessamples from wild and captive andean bears were collected during a period of 2 years between 2013 and 2015. twenty- eight fecal samples from wild andean bears were collected in reserva pantano de martos guatavita colombia  together with eight fecal samples from captive andean bears housed in fundacion bioandina including four males and four females.

within these gene families four were significantly higher in wild andean bears compared with captive andean bears supplementary figure 3 and table 3.discussionthe gut microbiota of andean bears varied significantly between wild and captive individuals.

the diversity of wild bears' gut microbiota was higher than in captive bears according to mean shannon wild 4.87 1.11 vs. captivity 3.23 0.15 p-value 0.00196 anova test chao1wild 944.66 1.1 vs. captivity 19.02 1.11 p-value 0.0618 anova test and simpson wild 0.90 0.10 vs. captivity0.860.10 p-value 0.354 anova test estimates of adiversity.bray-curtis dissimilarity analysis between wild and captive individuals showed that the gut microbiota of wild andean bears has an uneven composition across samples with higher intra- group variations average similarity  74.89 contrasting withan even composition for captive andean bear samples with lower intra-group variation average similarity 96 .

interestingly it was only found one shared otu in 75 of the individuals within the wild andean bear group whereas several otus were identified in all the captive andean bear samples.table 2  changes in the relative abundance of glycosyl-hydrolase containing families within firmicutes phylum identified as present in either wild or captive animals.wildcaptivitypaenibacillaceae0.256 x 10-3clostridiaceae0.093 x 10-3ruminococcaceae8.6 x 10-40lactobacillaceae0.229.9 x 10-4lachnospiraceae0.380we observed that regardless of the geographic origin of captive individuals all of them exhibited a very similar gut microbiota with slight variations in relative abundances of microbial lineages.

within all the identified phyla for captive and wild individuals fusobacteria and actinobacteria were more prevalent in captive individuals p  0.01 and p 0.026 respectively welch's t-test and proteobacteria was more abundant in wild individuals p 0.017 welch's t-test  and supplementary table 1. also a high proportion of the unassigned bacteria contributes greatly to the differences between captive and wild individuals although these otus do not necessarily belong to the same phyla making any inference about their phylogenetic diversity and ecological role within the gut microbiota difficult.

further considerations should be taken into account for nutritional schemes improving ex-situ conservation and its potential as a surveillance tool of endangered populations of wild andean bears.keywords 16s rdna gene andean bears conservation gut microbiota host-microbiota interactions herbivory feeding ecology metagenomics tremarctos ornatusintroductionthe andean bear has a predominantly plant-based diet but there is almost no evidence suggesting adaptations for herbivory in this species   .

interestingly they were only found in wild andean bear samples and below detection levels for samples from captive individuals which could suggest that the fiber-reduced diet in captivity is modifying the ability of the gut microbiota to degrade recalcitrant substrates such as cellulose hemicellulose lignocellulose among others that are commonly found on the main resources of wild andean bears' diet.

however the andean bear which depends on more than 114 plant species consume cattle only rarely and opportunistically not as an active strategy of foraging but because of the expansion of human villages into the andean bear habitat       .this habitat degradation that andean bears are facing could have a strong effect on gut microbial diversity because habitat degradation leads to reduction of plant diversity and the availability of food plants  .

the potential impact of the gut microbiota on the andean bears' health indicates the importance of these analyses as a valuable tool into the conservation of the species.previous findings with skull morpho-mechanics show no indication of adaptations for herbivory in andean bears although their mainly herbivorous diet.

a welch's t-test was implemented using stamp   to compare the relative abundance of the predicted kegg pathways and otus for captive and wild statuses.resultswe characterized the gut microbiota of captive andean bears maintained in guasca and mesitas and wild andean bears located in pantano de martos guatavita colombia.

these core functions in the andean bear gut microbiota could be involved with detoxifying xenobiotics present in the plant-based diet of the host as it has been reported for the gut microbiota of other mammals   .

for this reason further metagenomic approaches would allow us to understand the metabolic importance of the andean bears' gut microbiota for this feeding ecology.the gut microbiota is a dynamic community.

captive bears contained a lower number of bacterial phyla n  7 compared to wild individuals n  9. proteobacteria 59.03 and firmicutes 14.03 were the phyla that contributed the most to differences between wild and captive bears overall dissimilarity  87.72. at family level enterobacteriaceae drove the main differences between the two groups 13.7. picrust metagenomics predictions suggested a similar pattern of relative abundance of gene families associated with the metabolism of carbohydrates across samples in wild individuals despite the taxonomic differences of their gut microbiota.

in contrast there was a core microbiota consisting of nine otus for 100 of captive individuals none of which were assigned to any availablesequence in the greengenes database but only one of them was assigned to pseudomonas helmanticensis using blast against the nucleotide database of ncbi 100 identity and 98.82 coverage.a simper analysis was conducted to determine which taxa explained the dissimilarities between wild and captive status contributing to the observed patterns of taxonomic composition and possibly to the functional variations that could be found between captive and wild individuals.

captive individuals have all the same assigned diet one plausible explanation why their gut microbiota displayed a very similar composition among all the individuals.wild individuals can use the habitat differentially moving through long distances and across a wide elevation gradient according to flowering fruit development seasonality and availability patterns of plants        .

