recent research also confirmed gut microbiome can rapidly respond to altered diet within 1 day   and an animal-based diet had a greater effect on the microbiota than a plant-based diet.in our previous study the effect of subjects' gut microbiota communities by the diet intervention of carbohydrate-rich meals composed principally of wheat rice and oats was investigated by the pacbio single molecule real-time sequencing technology based on 16s rrna variable region.

these findings allow modeling of human gut microbiome responding to diet change and tailor-designed prebiotics for precision microbiota manipulation.in summary this study describes the dynamic profile of gut microbiome in 26 mongolians in response to changes in staple food consumed wheat rice and oat as the sole carbohydrate for 3 weeks and revealed the impact of wheat on intestinal microbiota was the largest followed by rice and oat.

to address this another recent study    examined the effect of dietary perturbations on the gut microbiota of five inbred mouse strains and revealed the consumption of a high-fat high-sugar diet reproducibly altered the gut microbiota despite differences in host genotype.

repeated dietary shifts demonstrated that most changes to the gut microbiota are reversible which emphasize diet dominates host genotype in shaping the murine gut microbiota.

dietary alteration in the gut microbiota profile could be temporal   or irreversible  .in china the dietary habit is significantly different from the western diets chinese diet revolves around a plant-based diet such as cereal vegetable and fruit supplemented with animal-based protein such as dairy products seafood and meat.

a recent study comparing fecal microbiota profile of central asian china and japan and southeast asia indonesia and thailand speculated that non-digestible carbohydrates and meat consumption are determining dietary factors in the bacteroides-enterotype  .it is the aim of this study to investigate the effect of the three staple food grains on the gut microbial communities via diet intervention.the typical mongolian diet is characterized by a high and frequent consumption of fermented dairy products and red meat and a low level of the grain intake.

and the structure of subjects' gut microbiota communities after the diet switch was found to be different from those before the diet switch.

the second group including the species of alistipesonderdonkii bacteroides fragilis bifidobacterium adolescentis bifidobacterium breve bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum lactobacillus ruminis ruminococcus gnavus and streptococcus thermophilus and they were closely related to the carbohydrate-active enzymes of beta-glucosidase mannosidase trehalose phosphorylase fucosidase and sialidase.the linear relationship between intestinal microbial phylum and main nutrient elementsthe results above based on the impacts of changes in staple food on intestinal microbiome offered us an excellent opportunity to reveal the linear relationship between intestinal microbial phylum and main nutrient elements which was also the basic mechanism related to the interaction between the diet and gut microbiome.

the dietary fibers proteins and peptides which escape digestion by host enzymes in the upper gut are metabolized by the microbiota in the colon thus determine the microbiota in the lower reach of the gut and feces  .

the results revealed a strong correspondence between the two profiles above p  0.001 using 10000 monte carlo label permutations which also indicated a potential synergistic interaction between the bacteria and bacterial virus in human gastrointestinal tract.the functional specificity of intestinal microbiota for carbohydrate utilizationas the main component of the staple food in the present study was carbohydrate we focused on the functional specificity of intestinal microbiota for carbohydrate utilization.

accordingly we exhibited the specificity of intestinal microbiota for carbohydrate utilizing and the linear relationship between intestinal microbiota and major nutrient elements.

nevertheless inthe present study we observed the staple carbohydrate-induced change was much smaller than the inter-individual difference which indicated the complexity of the interaction between the baseline microbiota and diet change.

2015. diet dominates host genotype in shaping the murine gut microbiota.

it is commonly accepted that diet has a major influence on the gut microbial community however the effects of diet is not fully understood.

during the diet switch within a 3-week period the bacterial richness and diversity decreased apparently along the diet intervention.

