lower concentrations of tryptamine may reflectresveratrol and the gut microbiome 841table 1 effect of resveratrol on gut microbial populations in in vitro and in rodent models1model and 1 mg resveratrol  kg21  d21continueda relative decrease in firmicutes and therefore a reduction in the functional ability of the gut microbiome to produce tryptophan decarboxylases 41. likewise resveratrol treat- ment may inhibit the increase in e. faecalis occurring during a high-fat diet or in inflammatory states in rodent models thereby reducing the activity of tyrosine decarbox- ylase in producing tyramine 42. although the composition of the gut microbiome was not measured directly in the hu- man study substantial changes in the production of microbiome-associated metabolites mirrored trends found in animal studies in which resveratrol was found to modu- late the gut microbiota 40.the effect of a resveratrol supplement in combination with the dietary polyphenol epigallocatechin gallate egcg on the gut microbiota has been investigated in a single clin- ical trial conducted in 37 healthy untrained overweight and obese adults 37. dietary supplements containing 141 mg egcg and 40 mg resveratrol were consumed twice daily for 12 wk.

the integrity of proteins in the junction of cells is important in maintaining the intestinal barrier function and tight junc- tion protein upregulation has been associated with im- proved intestinal cell integrity 61. several studies have shown that resveratrol can improve cell junction integrity by upregulating the expression of intestinal tight junction proteins such as tight junction protein 2 36 and occludin 62. moreover the increase in gut permeability caused by the common mycotoxin deoxynivaenol could be arrested by resveratrol which has been shown to promote the assem- bly of tight junction protein claudin 4 63. considering the importance of the gut barrier function for immunity and in the pathophysiology of several disease processes leaky gut the role of resveratrol in contributing to the mainte- nance of an intact intestinal barrier clearly warrants further investigation.health effects of resveratrol mediated through the gut microbiotaresearch into the health effects of resveratrol or its metabo- lites that are mediated by the gut microbiota are limited to experimental animal models.

adv nutr 20178839-49 83970 is extensively metabolized by the liver intestinal tract and gut microbiota 16. a schematic description of the metabolism and disposition of resveratrol is shown in figure 1. hence plasma concentrations of free resveratrol are considerably lower than its metabolites which calls into question whether results obtained from in vitro exper- iments with the use of resveratrol can be used to elucidate the mechanisms behind improvements in human health.with the increased interest in the role of the gut micro- biome in the maintenance of human health and the patho- genesis of many diseases several mechanisms have been proposed by which resveratrol can exert its health effects through modulating the composition of the gut microbiota 17 18. in addition direct effects of resveratrol and its me- tabolites on gut integrity and barrier function have been suggested 17. broad-spectrum antibacterial activity of res- veratrol has been found in several clinically important bac- terial species including opportunistic pathogens of the digestive tract escherichia coli enterococcus faecalis and sal- monella enterica subsp.

interestingly 10 of an intravenous dose was also recovered in the feces indi- cating that resveratrol metabolites in the circulation are ex- creted back into the intestines 24 presumably via biliary secretion 23. in vitro fecal fermentation experiments have confirmed that 18.3 mg resveratroll a much higher concentration than obtainable by the diet can be almost completely degraded to metabolites by the gut microbiome of healthy volunteers within 24 h with the main metabolites including lunularin dihydroresveratrol and 34-dihydroxy- trans-stilbene produced by the gut 21.proposed mechanisms of action of resveratrol on the gut microbiomemodulation of the composition of the gut microbiota.

the specific inhibition of the mtor1 signaling pathway which reduces fat deposition and impairs adipocyte main- tenance 82 with 200 mg resveratrol  kg21  d21 may have caused the reductions in body weight and improvements in markers of glucose homeostasis in the resveratrol-treated group 33. moreover the activation of the mtor2 signal- ing pathway followed by mtor1 inhibition with resveratrol has been speculated to directly suppress the growth of obesity-associated gut microorganisms such as lactococcus clostridium cluster xi oscillibacter and hydrogenoanaero- bacterium 33.resveratrol and the gut microbiome 845impaired glp-1 signaling is also thought to play a role in obesity and type 2 diabetes development 83. modifications of the gut microbiota that are derived from the diet may affect secreted glp-1 concentrations and the consequences of the metabolic syndrome 84. in mice gut microbiota composition changes were concurrent with increases in cir- culating glp-1 concentrations in resveratrol-treated mice maintained on a high-fat diet compared with the control and high-fat diets.

the composition of the gut microbiome is complex with a common set of microbial species present in all individuals although the relative pro- portions may vary widely within a much larger set of bacte- ria fungi and archaea that make up the human gut microbiome 86. commonly used methods to analyze gut microbial composition include isolating bacteria on selective media 35 quantitative real-time pcr fluorescence in situ hybridization combined with flow cytometry 31 and the main metagenomic approaches 16s ribosomal rna-based amplicon sequencing and whole shotgun sequencing 21. in the literature that describes the effects of resveratrol gut microbiota diversity was investigated according to taxo- nomic classification levels that varied from strain to phylum.

the combina- tion of a high-fat diet and resveratrol on the bacteroidetes firmicutes ratio decreases that are associated with obesity de- velopment 38 39 and occur in response to a high-fat diet was intermediate between the high-fat diet and the control diet in one study 200 mg resveratrol  kg21  d21 could partly mitigate the effects of a high-fat diet on this ratio 31. sub- stantial changes in the composition of the gut microbiota upon 60 mg resveratrol  kg21  d21 supplementation were also observed in mice fed a high-fat diet compared with a control diet and resveratrol normalized changes in the mi- crobiota induced by the high-fat diet although in this case resveratrol inhibited the growth of bacteroides vulgatus as well as parabacteroides johnsonii and alistipes putredinis to the extent that these species were no longer detectable by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis after supplementation 32. in one study in mice with the use of a 2 3 2 factorial design standard diet standard diet and resveratrol high-fat and high-sucrosehfs diet and hfs diet and resveratrol 4 g resveratrolkg affected the gut microbiome only in mice fed the obesogenic diet resveratrol had no effect in mice fed the standard diet 34. in particular resveratrol treatment increased the bacteroidetesfirmicutes ratio decreased the relative abun- dance of turicibacteraceae moryella lachnospiraceae and akkermansia and increased bacteroides and parabacteroides in the hfs diet group only 34. in yet another mouse study similar results were found 200 mg resveratrol  kg21  d21 had marked effects on the composition of the gut microbiota and ameliorated changes caused by a high-fat diet 33. the increase in lactococcus clostridium oscillibacter hydrogenoa- naerobacterium and flavonifractor induced by a high-fat diet was partially attenuated by resveratrol treatment in this study.

trimethylamine-n-oxide tmao is a metabolite produced by a 2-step process whereby dietary l-carnitine choline and lecithin are converted to trimethylamine by the gut microbiota and host flavin-containing mono- amine oxidases are responsible for the conversion to tmao which is implicated in the development of atherosclerosis 64. in a 5-y follow-up cohort study a higher plasma tmao concentration was associated with a 4-fold increase in mortality risk in patients with stable coronary artery disease 65. circulating tmao concen- trations have been shown to predict increases in carotid intima-media thickness an early marker of atherosclerosis in healthy overweight individuals with a family history of844 bird et al.type 2 diabetes participating in a recent longitudinal cross- sectional study 66.bacteria from several families commonly found in the gut are capable of producing trimethylamine although strains within one species may differ in their ability to produce tri- methylamine 67. overall studies in rodents have indicated that resveratrol reduces the increase in bacteria of firmicutes 25 26 32 38 39 which partially modulates the catabo- lism of choline and carnitine to trimethylamine 68. in a series of experiments with the use of both standard and atherosclerosis-prone mice resveratrol treatment 0.4 in- hibited the synthesis of trimethylamine and its further con- version to tmao through gut microbiota remodeling which was associated with an increase in the bacteroidesfir- micutes ratio and potentially through the inhibition of mi- crobial trimethylamine lyase activity 29 69. moreover increases in the proportion of lactobacillus and bifidobacte- rium appeared to increase the activity of bile salt hydrolase which increased bile acid excretion and thus lowered cho- lesterol by increased endogenous bile acid production via repression of the enterohepatic farnesoid x receptor fi- broblast growth factor 15 29. in atherosclerosis-prone apoe22 mice 4 g resveratrolkg attenuated atherosclerosis both in the presence and absence of dietary choline.

glucose homeostasis glucose auc improved considerably in obese mice that received fecal microbiota transplantations from resveratrol-treated mice but there was no change from the baseline in mice receiving a fecal microbiota transplantation from mice fed the control diet which suggests that the glu- cose homeostasis improvements were caused by changes in the gut microbiota or metabolites remaining in the feces rather than resveratrol itself.in a similar study conducted in mice fed with a high-fat diet 50 of calories from fat a high-fat diet with 200 mg resveratrol  kg21  d21 or a control diet 10 of calories from fat resveratrol prevented weight gain caused by the high-fat diet 31. several changes in the composition of the gut microbiota were noted most importantly it prevented a high-fat diet-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis namely by increasing the bacteroidetesfirmicutes ratio.

preliminary studies have shown that resveratrol can modulate gut microbiota composition undergo biotransformation to active metabolites via the intestinal microbiota or affect gut barrier function.

as a basis for our review we searched the pubmed database with the use of the keywords resveratrol gut microbiota to iden- tify primary research articles that have investigated the effect of resveratrol on the gut microbiome and we support these articles with relevant background citations.

resveratrol has the potential to affect the growth of species within the gut microbiota and alter its composition as shown by changes caused by resveratrol to bacterial mono- cultures or to the relative abundance of particular micro- organisms within complex communities table 1. in vitro bacterial growth has been shown to be slowed by the addition of resveratrol at concentrations of 50 mgl for most of a panel of 43 human- and animal-origin bacteria whereas growth was stimulated for one strain of lactobacillus acidophilus 27. in the same series of experiments the mo- tility of the human pathogen proteus mirabilis was inhibited which potentially curtailed its swarming behavior and 25 of the strains were able to transform resveratrol to several metabolites including resveratroloside piceid and dihy- droresveratrol 27. the doses used in this study were several orders of magnitude higher than normal dietary intakes however the exposure of the gut microbiome to the concen- tration used is possible with dietary supplementation.

resveratrol undergoes rapid and exten- sive glucuronidation and sulfation reactions in the host liver and duodenum 44 45. moreover the gut microbiota can metabolize resveratrol as found in both in vitro fermenta- tion experiments with human fecal cultures and controlled intervention studies with healthy volunteers although with pronounced interindividual differences 21. one study of 73 men and women at high cardiovascular diseaseresveratrol and the gut microbiome 843risk found 21 different urinary resveratrol metabolites in- cluding glucuronide and sulfate conjugates of dihydrores- veratrol formed by the intestinal microbiota after the chronic consumption of 272 ml red wine or dealcoholized red wined for 4 wk as determined with the use of ultra- hplc-mass spectrometry 46. there was no difference in resveratrol bioavailability because of the alcohol content of the wine.

taken with other results that have shown that metformin atten- uated favorable effects from resveratrol supplementation on glucose control and the blood lipid profile 55 the production of metabolites other than dihydroresveratrol by the gut microbiota may be responsible for its cardiovas- cular benefits.the resveratrol metabolite lunularin also found in plants such as the common cow wheat and common celery has bioactive properties including reducing the secretion of proinflammatory mediators after an lps challenge 56. moreover it showed moderately cytotoxic effects againstliver carcinoma cells and mildly antibacterial activity against the gram-negative bacterium pseudomonas aeruginosa 57. likewise several studies have identified in vitro effects of 349-dihydroxy-trans-stilbene chemopreventive effects via the nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 pathway58 were found it was more effective than resveratrol in ameliorating insulin resistance 59 and it appeared to have cytogenetic activity comparable to resveratrol 60. the current limited research base shows that similar to re- sveratrol its gut-derived metabolites have anti-inflammatory properties may be mildly chemopreventive and could im- prove glucose control or insulin sensitivity.improved gut barrier function.

there is a complex relation between obesity diet and the composition and functionality of the gut micro- biome 18 71. studies in mice have suggested that resvera- trol can influence this relation in several ways either by directly modulating the gut microbiome to one associated with a healthy weight 31 34 or by changing the expression and activity of genes involved in weight maintenance such as fasting-induced adipose factor or the mechanistic target of rapamycin mtor known regulators of peripheral lipid and glucose metabolism as well as central energy metabolism 31 33 72. changes in gene expression related to inflammation apoptosis and mitochondrial fa oxida- tion by resveratrol may also mitigate metabolic disturbances caused by obesity 35.one study involved c57bl6n mice in a 2 3 2 facto- rial design with resveratrol and the control compared with a standard diet and an hfs diet 45 of calories from fat 17 of calories from sucrose 34. resveratrol treatment 4 gkg reduced fat mass in mice fed the hfs diet only and there was a nonsignificant decrease in body weight in both resveratrol-treated groups.

