populations increased significantly.table 4 changes in blood serum lipids and antioxidant capacity for rabbits fed different levels of carob podstable 3 apparent digestibility coefficients and nutritive values of themgdldigestible crude protein dcp9.94a 10.09a 10.28a 9.11b 0.17 0.023sem standard error of means ldl low-density lipoprotein hdl high- density lipoprotein gpx glutathione peroxidase gst glutathione s- transferase cat catalase sod superoxide dismutase tbars thiobar-sem standard error of means.c control group cp1 rabbits received 2.5 carob pods replacement cp2 rabbits received 5 carob pods replacement cp3 rabbits received 10 carob pods replacement.different letters within a row denote significant differences between treatments p  0.05.bituric acid-reactive substances.c control group cp1 rabbits received 2.5 carob pods replacement cp2 rabbits received 5 carob pods replacement cp3 rabbits received 10 carob pods replacement.different letters within a row denote significant differences between treatments p  0.05.table 5 caecal characteristics and microflora population for rabbits fed experimental dietssem standard error of means.different letters within a row denote significant differences between treatments p  0.05.c control group cp1 rabbits received 2.5 carob pods replacement cp2 rabbits received 5 carob pods replacement cp3 rabbits received 10 carob pods replacement.discussionthe utilization of carob pods in rabbits feeding at level of 5 in cp2 group enhanced the growth perfor- mance of rabbits during the whole experimental per- iod whereas at level of 10 in cp3 group it resulted in a significant decrease in the growth performance of rabbits.

dietary groups were as follows c basal diet with no supplementation cp1 basal diet  2.5 carob pods cp2 basal diet  5 carob pods and cp3 basal diet  10 carob pods.

1986. hemicellulose hc and neutral detergent soluble nds were calculated according to the equationshc 14 ndf - adfd1thnfe nitrogen-free extract ndf neutral detergent fibre adf acid deter-andnds 14 100 - ndfd2thgent fibre adl acid detergent lignin.c control group cp1 rabbits received 2.5 carob pods replacement cp2 rabbits received 5 carob pods replacement cp3 rabbits received 10 carob pods replacement.mineral-vitamin premix provided the following per kilogram of diet vitamin a 150 000 ui vitamin e 100 mg vitamin k3 21 mg vitamin b1 10 mg vitamin b2 40 mg vitamin b6 15 mg pantothenic acid 100 mg vitamin b12 0.1 mg niacin 200 mg folic acid 10 mg biotin0.5 mg choline chloride 5000 mg fe 0.3 mg mn 600 mg cu 50 mg co 2 mg se 1 mg and zn 450 mg.vein.

meat moisture and ee contents increased significantly p  0.05 for slaughtered rabbits fed ctable 2 growth performance mortality rate carcass characteristics and chemical composition of rabbits fed experimental dietssem standard error of means.c control group cp1 rabbits received 2.5 carob pods replacement cp2 rabbits received 5 carob pods replacement cp3 rabbits received 10 carob pods replacement.different letters within a row denote significant differences between treatments p  0.05.and cp1 diets compared with those fed the other diets.

the increase in inclusion rate of carob pods signifi- cantly decreased feed intake whereas carob pods at 5 in the cp2 group recorded the best value of feed con- version ratio.

in conclusion 5 of carob pods in the diet stimulated the per- formance of growing rabbits and thus it has potential as an unconventional feed resource for rabbits without any adverse effects.keywords carob pods digestibility of nutrients performance antioxidant activity caecal characteristics rabbitcorrespondence s. h. abu hafsa city of scientific research and technological applications universities and research center district new borg el-arab po box 21934 alexandria egypt.

due to the afore- mentioned attributes of carob pods and its possible incorporation as an energy supplement in rabbit feed formulation it is possible that carob pods will beneficially alter gut microflora improve feed intake and efficiency and enhance performance characteris- tics in rabbits.

significant differences between means p  0.05 were determined by tukey's honestly significant difference.resultsgrowth performanceour results indicated that the different inclusion levels of carob pods had a significant effect on the growth performance of rabbits table 2. indeed the cp2 group registered a higher fbw and dwg than the control and other carob pods groups.

mortality did not differ for the cp1 and cp2 groups during the experiment.carcass and meat analysisdietary supplementation with carob pods had an effect on rabbit slaughter weight carcass yields or organ weight percentages table 2. both slaughter weight and dressing percentage decreased signifi- cantly p  0.05 for rabbits in the cp3 group com- pared with rabbits in the control and the other carob pods groups.

2016 who reported a signifi- cant decrease in nh3-n and total volatile fatty acids tvfa concentrations in goats supplemented with carob pods 100 ghday and an increase in tvfa concentrations in goats supplemented with carob pods 50 ghday compared with other groups.

molar pro- portion  of propionic acid was insignificantly lower with carob pods 50 ghday experimental rations however acetic acid was higher p  0.05 with carob pods 50 ghday rations.

2008. future studies must be carried out to determine the nature and extent of specific components of polyphenols in carob pods with potential antimicrobial properties.conclusionresults demonstrated that the inclusion of carob pods at 50 gkg enhanced antioxidant activity and had pos- itive effect on growth performance carcass character- istics and meat quality and reduced the internal pathogens.referencesabdallah e. m. 2011 plants an alterna- tive source for antimicrobials.

doi 10.1111jpn.12651original article carob pods ceratonia siliqua l. improve growth performance antioxidant status and caecal characteristics in growing rabbitss.

h. abu hafsa1 s. a. ibrahim2 and a. a. hassan3livestock research department arid lands cultivation research institute city of scientific research and technological applications new borg el-arab alexandria egyptfood microbiology and biotechnology laboratory north carolina agricultural and technical state university greensboro nc usa and 3 animal production research institute ministry of agriculture dokki giza egyptsummarythe objective of this study was to evaluate carob pods and their effect on growth performance antioxidant activities carcass and caecal characteristics and equilibrium modification of the caecal microbiota population of growing nzw rabbits.

cholesterol low-density lipopro- tein high-density lipoprotein and triglycerides decreased significantly p  0.05 in rabbits treated with carob pods compared with the control.

