2011.inorganic n sources can alter the short-term lability of dom produced by phytoplanktonin the dark remineralization experiment more nh1-derived toc was utilized by heterotrophic bacterioplankton than no--derived toc in the first week indicating that the short-term lability of dom can be influenced by n source likely by altering phytoplankton community structure and the composition of dom that is subsequently produced.

perhaps more importantly the tim- ing of when dom was 'harvested' for the subsequent dark remineralization may be vastly inappropriate while we captured the dom during the period of peak chl a concen- trations this also allowed a long period of whole community remineralization and internal recycling with the potential for different interpretations of lability if the dom were harvested earlier or later.

carboys were incubated for 10 days and sampled daily for concentrations of inorganic nutrients total organic carbon bacterioplankton and chlorophyll a chl a as well as fluo- rescent dom composition and rates of primary production estimated using 14c-bicarbonate assimilation.seawater dilution and dom degradation experiments were then conducted using the dom produced from the grow-out experiment.

we collected water from 5 m depth inthe central north pacific and amended duplicate 20 liter polycarbonate carboys with nitrate or ammonium track- ing planktonic carbon fixation dom production dom composition and microbial community structure responses over 1 week relative to controls.

2008 but little is known of how changes in phytoplankton inorganic n source may alter the quantity quality and composition of dom pro-can be a function of the dom source nelson and carlson 2012 becker et al.

we sought to explicitly parse the dom and microbial community response to nutrient enrich- ment by contrasting whole community responses unfiltered light incubations in which production and consumption dynamics are coupled and indistinguishable and heterotro- phic microbial responses dark remineralization incubations in which we can directly associate dom consumption and transformation to microbial biomass increases c flux and associated community structure shifts.

a significant proportion of primary production is released as dissolved organic matter dom and is subsequently metabolized by osmotrophs williams 2000 primarily bacteria and archaea but also eukaryotes including coc- colithophores and diatoms kujawinski 2011. the oceanic dom pool is the largest pool of reduced carbonc 662 6 32 pg c in the ocean hansell et al.

2009 and is extremely diverse in chemical composition and structurerepeta 2015. dom composition and reactivity varies induction and alter the composition of both the microbial community and the dom produced relative to an unamended control.

1. plankton and dom dynamics in response to n enrichment.a shows mean chl a concentrations chla mg l21 in the n addition experiment.b presents carbon fixation rates mg c l21 d21 in the n addition experiment.c and d present mean bacterial cell counts left y-axis open symbols cells l21 and total organic carbon toc concentrations right y-axis closed symbols mmol l21 in the n addition experiment c and dom remineralization experiment d. whiskers are standard deviation.

heatmap colours visualize relative enrichment not abundance relative abundances arcsin-square root transformed are standardized for each taxon by subtracting the column mean and dividing by the column standard deviation colours represent different abundances for each family.ranged roughly from 0.1 to 0.3 bge could not be com- puted for the controls due to negligible change in toc table 1. initial concentrations of inorganic nutrients did not differ significantly in the dark remineralization experi- ment from those observed in at the time of sample collection or at day 10 of the grow-out p  0.05.long-term dom remineralization dynamicsby 49 days in the dom remineralization experiment changes in toc concentrations were equivalent between the nh1 and no2 sources -7.1 6 2.2 and 26.8 6 3.8 mmol c l21 respectively there was no detectable change in toc in the controls.

199934toc were removed suggesting that the semi-labile dom fractions produced by the two n-amendments were equiva- lent in bioavailability if not composition discussed aboveand that long-term dom lability is ultimately controlled byfandino et al.

beier et al.2015 suggest that dom composition and competition43these experiments and little measurable inorganic nutrient utilization during the dark remineralization phase of the experiment table 1. lastly we must emphasize that the timing of when dom is harvested can also affect short- term toc lability which can vary throughout different phases of a bloom wear et al.

in all cases the changes in amended microbial community structure were markedly different from the controls and ambient waters suggesting that n-stimulated dom produc- tion may result in short and long-term cascading shifts in community structure that may impact food web dynamics and c and energy flow.considerations for future workthis experiment details a single example of trends in dom production composition and lability and microbial commu- nity responses induced by an abrupt shift in n availability.

2015ab and nelson and wear 2014 addressed this issue explicitly showing the dramatic differences in dom lability and microbial community response to dom harvested on hourly to daily scales throughout a naturally progressing bloom interestingly many of the same organisms were enriched in dark remineralization incubations in that work.

1999 a comparison of the chemical characteristics of oceanic dom and extracellular dom produced by marine algae.

