thus the neutrophil infiltration could be inhibited by egcg owing to histamine being a kind of chemoattractant of neutrophils .effect of catechins on cell proliferation and apoptosisafter being stimulated by various factors such as cytokines bacterial components and ros cd4 t cells will proliferate and differentiate into kinds of subsets like th1 cells th2 cells th17 cells and treg cells respectively exhibiting distinct effects to regulate the progress of inflammation in ibd .

recent studies about the roles of catechins in gap junctions have mainly focused on cardiomyocytes  vascular endothelial cells to prevent cardiovascular diseases lung cells liver cells  and kidney cells  etc.

in a distinct activation pathway from th1 and th2 cells the increased number of activated th17 cells and secreted cytokines such as il-17a and il-17f in ibd patients and animals in studies have suggested that th17 cells play an important role in the development of ibd .

primary cd4 t cells from c57bl6 mice and a human leukemic cd4 t cell line of hut 78 cells and non-cd4 t cells i.e.

however on the contrary egcg could increase the activation of stat1 in ifn-g-induced cd4 t cells such as splenic cd4 t cells and hut 78 cells but it still suppressed the stat1 homodimer formation and inhibited the downstream signaling the mrna expression of the ifn-g-induced pro-inflammatory gene chemokine c-x-c motif ligand 9 cxcl9 .

then the activated cells can infiltrate proliferate differentiate and produce different kinds of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines pro-inflammatory cytokines and reactive oxygen species ros thus initiating and expanding the inflammation while resulting in widespread lesions to cells and tissues .

th1 cells the chief mediators in type 1 immunity can secrete interferon-g ifn-g the iconic product of th1 cells interleukin 12 il-12 and tumor necrosis factor-a tnf-a which in turn induce tnf-a il-6 and il-1b to release from macrophages.

the activated th2 cells and the cytokines secreted by th2 cells such as il-4 il-5 il-9 il-10 il-23 and il-25 have increased in inflamed mucosa of uc patients than in cd ones .

additionally many authors have reported that t-regulatory treg cells characterized by the expression of fork-head box p3 foxp3 il-10 and tgfb1 play a fundamental role in maintaining the gut immune-regulatory properties and inhibiting the activation of th1 th2 and th17 cells .the main problems faced by the current therapeutic strategies for ibd include limited benefits numerous side effects and the weak responsiveness to patients who take anti-inflammatory drugs -.

the monocytes which can transform to macrophages and dendritic cells play an important role in the inflamed tissue as the main effector cells in the initiation development and result of the immune-related response .

hepg2 cells the study indicated that egcg alternatively enhanced the signal transducer and activator of transcription stat 1 phosphorylation but inhibited the stat1 homodimer formation via the src pathway but not the janus kinase jak 12 pathway ultimately promoting the apoptosis of ifn-g-induced cd4 t cells and benefiting the t cell-related colitis .

while the egf can stimulate epithelial cells to proliferate the study indicated that ec could induce the proliferation of epithelial cells to recover the intestinal mucosa of colitis and reduce the relapse lesion.

upon activation by distinct pro-inflammatory stimuli the nf-kb becomes free through the phosphorylation and degradation of ikba by ikb kinase ikk then translocates to the nucleus and induces transcription of a wide range of genes  in different types of cells such as macrophages and dendritic cells figure .

it can help the epithelial cells and immune cells to resist the damage from pathogenic agents but the excessive activation of nf-kb can amplify the intestinal inflammation then damage the tissue .

in addition catechins can also regulate the infiltration and proliferation of immune related-cells such as neutrophils colonic epithelial cells macrophages and t lymphocytes helping reduce the inflammatory relations and provide benefits to ibd.

