recent studies have shown that cathelicidin peptides have protective effects on intestinal epithelial barrier function by increasing the expression of tj proteins 16 17. cathelicidin-wa cwa a novel cathelicidin peptide from snakes has been shown to exhibit strong antimicrobial activities against gram-negative enteric bacteria 18 19. additionallycwa can attenuate intestinal inflammation via immune regula- tion independently of its antibacterial activity 10 14. furthermore in weaned piglets cwa improves intestinal epithelial barrier func- tion by increasing the expression of tj proteins 10.enterohemorrhagic escherichia coli ehec is an enteric pathogen that leads to nondiarrhea mediated by intestinal epithe- lial barrier disruptions during weaning period 2. previous studies have shown that ehec infection induced the perturbation of tj proteins in c57bl6 mice and in the colon-derived cell line t84 20 21. however the effects of cwa on ehec-induced intes- tinal epithelial barrier disruption and the underlying mechanisms remain unknown.

to further compare the intestinal barrier function of the mice treated with cwa and enro we selected mice from the control ehec plus enro and ehec plus cwa groups to reinfect with ehec o157h7.

previous studies also showed that antibiotic treat- ments can alter the intestinal microbial composition intestinal mucus layer and intestinal tj protein expression as well as host susceptibility to pathogen infection 9 40-42. given the differ- ential effects of cwa and enro on the function of the intestinal epithelial barrier and microbiota we also investigated the defense of cwa- or enro-treated mice against a second ehec infection.

after centrifuging at 12000 3 g at 4c for 15 min the supernatant was collected and transferred into a gas chroma- tography vial to detect scfa concentrations by gc-8a as previously described 25. scfa concentrations were normalized to the weight of the cecal contents.bacterial transfer during second ehec infectionafter the mice had been treated as described in the animals section above six mice from the control ehec plus enro and ehec plus cwa groups were randomly selected.

p  0.01p  0.001.have shown that ehec infection altered tj protein expression and increased intestinal permeability in the intestine of mice 21. consistent with this finding we found that ehec infection decreased the protein expression of zo-1 and occludin in the jejunum of mice in this study.

we consistently found that in enro-treated mice more bacteria were present in the spleen and liver during the second ehec infection than was the case in cwa-treated mice suggesting that cwa-treated mice might have a better defense against the second bacterial infection than do antibiotic-treated mice.

injection with sterile saline ehec 5.46 mgkg cwa ehec plus cwa or 22.75 mgkg enrofloxacin enro ehec plus enro once a day for 3 d. the doses of cwa and enro were calculated based on our previous study 10. after 3 d the mice were euthanized or reinfected and the tissues were collected.

b six mice per group were randomly selected from the control ehec plus enro and ehec plus cwa groups and orally challenged by second ehec infection.

our results suggest that cwa is a potential therapy for ehec infection or other intestinal diseases.the major function of intestinal goblet cells and mucins is the formation of the mucus layers that cover the surface of the intestinalfigure 3. cwa modulated the goblet cells and mucus layer function in the intestine of ehec-infected mice.

a previous study showed that cwa in- creased tj protein expressions and improved intestinal barrier function in the jejunum of weaned piglets with clinical diar- rhea 10. additionally other cathelicidin peptides such as cathelicidin-bf increased the expression of zo-1 and occludin in the intestine of mice with dss-induced colitis 14. further- more defensins another major family of antimicrobial peptides also increased tj protein expression and intestinal epithelial barrier function in the intestine of mice 3. taken together these data suggest that cwa increases tj protein expression and im- proves epithelial barrier function in the intestine.the mechanisms of tj protein regulation are complex and in- volve many signaling pathways.

compared with the ehec group the ehec plus cwa group had an increased villous height and a decreased crypt depth in the jejunum whereas the ehec plus enro group had only a decreased crypt depth fig.

compared with the ehec group the ehec plus cwa group had increased protein expression of zo-1 and occludin in the jejunum whereas the ehec plus enro group had increased protein expression of only zo-1.

however ehec infection or ehec infection followed by enro treatment did not affect the relmb and tff3 expression in the jejunum of mice.

ehec.cwa ehec plus cwa ehec.enro ehec plus enro.with this finding previous studies have shown that antimicrobial peptides such as porcine b defensin 2 and cathelicidin-bf attenuate the dss-induced disruption of mucin expression in the intestine of mice 3 14. these data suggest that cwa modulates goblet cell function and muc-2 production in the intestine.

however no sig- nificant differences were observed between the ehec plus cwa and ehec plus enro groups with regard to intestinal morphology or il-6 production.

