at the conclusion of the ex- periment all birds were weighed and categorized sequen- tially into 3 bw groups within each sex n  4 female with low bw  fl female with medium bw  fm female with high bw  fh male with low bw  ml male with medium bw  mm and male with high bw  bh.

with respect to broiler chickens with medium bw relative abun- dances of lactobacillus vaginalis sporobacter termitidis and shigella sonnei were enriched compared with other bw groups.lefse showed that a total of five bacterial taxa determinedthe discrimination among bw groups in male broiler chic- kens table 5. increased bacterial abundance of clostridium belonged to firmicutes was linked to male broiler chickens with low bw.

in female broiler chickens we observed bac- teroidetes firmicutes proteobacteria and tenericutes with increased relative abundance but broiler chickens with high bw had only tenericutes dominantly table 4. several fir- micutes members including oscillospira anaerofilum clos- tridium hungatei and cc115 and unclassified rhizobium affiliated to proteobacteria were significantly linked to broiler chickens with low bw.

due to the diversity of metabolic path-ways found in predicted metagenome functions we narrowed pathways by selecting carbohydrate energy endocrine system lipid and glycan metabolism about nutrient metabolisms.identification of bacterial features that discriminate groupslinear discriminant analysis effect size lefse explored the bacterial features that differentiate bacterial communities of sex or bw groups in the ceca of broiler chickens segata et al.

analysis of similarity anosim represented that the division of bacterial communities by sex was statistically significant p  0.01 as well as bw p  0.01. this result shows that bacterial communities in chicken ceca vary for sex and their performance.several bacterial taxa were found to discriminate different sex broiler chicken groups via lefse segata et al.

bw based metagenome function predictions explored that carbohydrate energy lipid and glycan metabolism and endocrine system may be potential factors of weight gain table 7. in female broiler chickens we did not profile any kegg pathways that discriminate bw groups but glycan biosynthesis and metabolism lipid metabolism and carbo-hydrate metabolism were profiled in male broiler chickens.

also it is recognized that alteration in the git microbiome is closely linked with body weight bw of animals including pigs guo et al.

short chain fatty acids scfas including acetate propionate and butyrate generated by git microbiota have been related to bw changes clarke et al.

2015.the objectives of the current experiment therefore were to investigate the cecal microbiome of broiler chickens dif- fering in sex and bw via the ngs technique.materials and methodsanimals and sample peparationa total of 12 male and 12 female ross 308 broiler chickens at hatching were obtained from a local commercial hatchery yangji hatchery pyeongtaek republic of korea and were raised in wire-floored battery cages 76 x 78 x 45 cm widthx length x height placed in an environmentally controlled room.

thus it is suggested that these bacterial taxa profiled from chicken ceca regulate biological processes within the git that discriminate female and male chickens such as degrading feed components.cecal microbiome by bw in the female and male broiler chickenswithin each sex different bacterial taxa were identified de- pending on bw.

at species level bacteria identified as clostridium methylpentosum be- came enriched in the chicken ceca with low bw whereas increased abundance of unclassified faecalibacterium thatwas related to broiler chickens with high bw was identified.

2010. thus these metabolic pathways may be a candidate for further researches in weight gain and growth performance of broiler chickens.conclusionbacterial communities in broiler chicken ceca were statisti- cally significantly different by sex and bw.

microbiome that plays a vital role in animal health nutrition physiology and subsequent productive performance lan et al.

82-31-670-4707 fax 82-31-675-3108copyright c 2017 the microbiological society of koreawei et al.

2013. a variety of factors has been known to in- fluence the git microbiome of animals including geno- type turnbaugh et al.

