finally the microbiota adaptation hypothesis sug- gests that the association between the gut microbiota and crc is mainly an adaptation of the gut micro- biota as a consequence of the changed environment during crc development .the mouse represents one of the most important gut microbiota models in relation to human disease .

although age microbiota and tumorigenesis are strongly confounded no studies have yet related age and crc to the gut microbiota in mouse models.the aim of this work was to investigate the co- variation between tumor progression age butyrate and microbiota in aj min mice.

28 1352433httpsdoi.org10.108016512235.2017.1352433research articlececal microbiota association with tumor load in a colorectal cancer mouse modelline skute braten marianne sodring jan erik paulsen lars gustav snipenand knut rudiadepartment of chemistry biotechnology and food science norwegian university of life sciences as norway bdepartment of food safety and infection biology norwegian university of life sciences as norwayarticle historyreceived 28 february 2017accepted 29 june 2017keywordscolorectal cancer mouse model microbiota 16s rrna geneintroductioncolorectal cancer crc is the third most common cancer in men and the second most common cancer in women worldwide.

one hypoth- esis is that the association is due to the triggering of systemic tumorigenic conditions by key members of the microbiota as in the concept of the alpha-bug hypothesis potentially through the induction of inflammation .although mouse models have been used to inves-tigate a range of gut microbiota-associated diseases the mouse gut microbiota still remains poorly char- acterized .

furthermore mouse models have been used to exam- ine the correlation between gut microbiota and aging  as well as the role of the gut microbiota in the host's susceptibility to colonic tumorigenesis .

illumina 16s ribosomal rna rrna gene sequencing was used for the characterization of the microbiota in the cecum lumen and mucosa while gas chromatogra- phy gc was used to investigate the potential anti- tumor effect of butyrate.the aj min mouse model chosen for this study is a novel mouse model that was only recently characterized .

we chose to investigate the cecum microbiota since the cecum is the main site of fermentation and microbial- derived metabolite production with the most pro- nounced effect on mouse health  particularly related to the antitumor effect of butyrate .

therefore inflammation can be a potential trigger of crc in the aj min mouse model .regarding the association between microbiota and crc the alpha-bug hypothesis  is the most likely explanation.

thus the aj min mouse crc model could form the basis for general mechan- istic insights into how the microbiota is associated with crc development.acknowledgementswe would like to thank kari olsen and jon fredrik hansen for technical support in setting up the analyses of butyrate load.disclosure statementno potential conflict of interest was reported by the authors.orcidlars gustav snipen 861xreferencesferlay j steliarova-foucher e lortet-tieulent j et al.

the gut microbiota in mouse models of inflammatory bowel disease.

how infor- mative is the mouse for human gut microbiota research dis model mech.

the rapid renewal of the colonic epithelium also increases the risk of mutations that can lead to the development of tumors.there are three general models for explaining the association of the gut microbiota with crc.

the driver-passenger hypothesis states that the gut microbiota association with crc is mainly a succession process where bacteria that are favored by the tumorigenic envir- onment later replace the initial crc inducers .

furthermore the tumor load in the cecum is very low reducing the potential confounding effect of changed environment or physiology due to tumor progression unpublished observations.here we present evidence that tumor load is more important than age and butyrate in the association with the gut microbiota.

from our results we there- fore favor the alpha-bug hypothesis in explaining the association between gut microbiota and crc.materials and methodsan outline of samples and analyses is given in .

