3 225-237REVIEWChallenges in fecal donor selection and screening for fecal microbiota transplantation A reviewMichael H. Woodworth Cynthia Carpentieri Kaitlin L. Sitchenko and Colleen S. KraftaDivision of Infectious Diseases Department of Medicine Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta GA USA bDepartment of PathologyEmory University Hospital Atlanta GA USAARTICLE HISTORYReceived 15 September 2016 Revised 29 December 2016 Accepted 17 January 2017KEYWORDSantibiotic resistance Clostridium difficile FMT fecal microbiota transplantation gut microbial therapeutics microbiome resistome stool donor screeningIntroductionThe last decade has seen a dramatic expansion in understanding of the composition and function of the microbiota of the human gut.

Notably PCR diagnostics for symptomatic CDI may result in over diagnosis compared with toxin enzyme immunoassay EIA tests though in the case of screening this is likely an acceptable bias.Off- label rectal swab PCR testing for asymptomatic car- riers has been used in at least one study.However further clinical validation of C. difficile PCR testing is urgently needed to evaluate its use for screening of asymptomatic individuals.Similarly PCR-based multiplex panels that have been developed for rapid identification of other bacterial viral and parasitic pathogens in infectious diarrhea have been developed compared with cul- ture of loosewatery stool specimens.While most donor screening recommendations suggest stool culture antigen testing and microscopic examina- tion for ova and parasites as a means of screening for asymptomatic carriage a study to validate gas- trointestinal pathogen panels for asymptomatic pathogen colonization could potentially reducecosts to stool banking programs and improve effi- ciency of screening.Using non-toxigenic C. difficile strains as a means to outcompete toxigenic strains is being tested in clini- cal trials.Validated commercial assays testing alter- native PCR targets that identify donors colonized with non-pathogenic strains of C. difficile while ruling out asymptomatic carriage of other viral bacterial and protozoal pathogens would be a helpful inclusion cri- terion for ideal stool donors.

In addition there may be future changes in FMT regula- tion including which indications require Investiga- tional New Drug IND applications oversight of donor selection screening and stool banking practi- ces.As an example of the importance of donor selection outcomes for FMT for Inflammatory Bowel Disease IBD in particular may be sensitive to donor selection and the donor stool microbiota diversity.

J Clin Microbiol 2016 545248.Audebert C Even G Cian A Blastocystis Investiga- tion Group Loywick A Merlin S Viscogliosi E Chab'e M. Colonization with the enteric protozoa Blastocystis is associated with increased diversity of human gut bacterial microbiota.

As more is understood about the influence of the human gut microbiota basic science and clinical trial data should be rapidly incorporated to translate benefits and limit risk to patients through updated donor and stool screening for fecal micro- biota transplantation FMT.FMT is best understood as an effective inexpensive and apparently safe method for clinical enrichment of human gut microbiota to treat recurrent Clostridium difficile infection RCDI.

HIV - human immunodeficiency virus HAV - hepatitis A virus HBV - hepatitis B virus HCV - hepatitis C virus.Off-label C. difficile toxin gene polymerase chain reaction testing is most commonly recommended although off-label antigen toxin enzyme immunoassay ortoxigenic culture are also likely appropriate.inconsistently been associated with irritable bowel syndrome IBS.However the literature on this topic is inconsistent.Screening stool for potential pathogens is a criti- cally important step in reducing risk to FMT recipients.

As of September 1 2016 there are 197 clinical trials registered under the terms FMT fecal microbiota and fecal microbiota transplantation on for indica- tions as varied as primary sclerosing cholangitis non- alcoholic steatohepatitis NASH type II diabetes mel- litus irritable bowel syndrome inflammatory bowel disease hepatic encephalopathy and eradication of colonization by multi-drug resistant organismsCONTACT Colleen S. KraftDivision of Infectious Diseases Department of Pathology Emory University Hospital 1364 Clifton Rd.

Available from  Mira-Pascual L Cabrera-Rubio R Ocon S Costales P Parra A Suarez A Moris F Rodrigo L Mira A Collado MC.

A particularly striking example of the impact of donor selection was reported by Alang and Kelly in which a patient was effectively treated for RCDI but became obese after FMT from an obese but otherwise healthy donor known to the patient.Though donors are screened for malnutrition and metabolic syn- drome it may be appropriate to exclude donors for other metabolic disorders as well since studies have suggested that even some disorders not previously considered to be infectious are associated with the gut microbiome.The influence of the microbiome on nutrition and metabolic disease is suggested by proximity of the microbiota to the intestinal tract but only recently beginning to become more clear.

Fecal microbiota trans- plantation for clostridium difficile infection A systematic review.

