the level of firmicutes significantly correlated with body weight p 0.04. however there was no significant relationship between the level of firmicutes and feed intake plasma leptin concentration or pun concentration p  0.05. the levels of bacteroidetes and bacteroides significantly correlated with feed intake body weight plasma leptin concentration or pun concentration p  0.001. the level of bacteroides more strongly correlated p  0.0001 with these pa- rameters compared to the level of bacteroidetes.

the ratio of acetic acid to total scfa was stable at start of the experiment until 8 weeks which significantly increased at 14 weeks p  0.05. the ratio of propionic acid and butyric acid to total scfa were stable from 0 to 8 weeks after the start of the experiment and significantly decreased at 14 weeks p  0.05.plasma leptin and pun concentrationsplasma leptin concentration significantly increased until 10 weeks p  0.05 and then stabilized until the end of the experi- ment a. pun concentration increased until 8 weeks of growth p  0.05 and then remained unchanged from week 8e14 b.quantification of firmicutes bacteroidetes and bacteroidesthe changes in the number of firmicutes bacteroidetes and bacteroides in porcine faeces were monitored.

demonstrated scfas aretable 4correlation between the levels of firmicutes bacteroidetes and bacteroides and body weight plasma leptin and plasma urea nitrogen pun concentration.activators of gpr 41 and scfas stimulate leptin production in cultured adipocyte and whole animal of mice through the gpr41.

leptin expression and secretion were related to the mass of body fat and the size of adipocytes  and therefore leptin is considered as an indicator of body fat mass.

in swine leptin sup- pressed feed intake  and leptin mrna expression increased with age and body weight gain as shown in mouse.

similarly the levels of bacteroidetes and bacteroides in faeces correlated with body weight in pigs and humans but there was no correlation between the level of firmi- cutes and body weight .gut microbiota convert undigested carbohydrates into scfas and the scfas produced by fermentation are absorbed in the large intestine and utilized as an energy source by host animals .

plasma leptin concentrations were found to be significantly correlated with the levels of bacteroidetes and bacter- oidetes and the levels of gut microbes might be related to body fat accumulation.

all calculations were made using a commercially available computer program .resultsfeed intake and body weightfeed intake was increased p  0.05 from start of the experi- ment until 8 weeks and then it was significantly decreased p  0.05 until the end of the experiment .

body weight gradually increased from the start until the end of the experiment p  0.05 a. daily gain was almost stable from 0 to 8 weeks and more than 1 kgday although it showed a low value at 6 weeks after the start of the experiment b. then the daily gain significantly decreased at 10 weeks p  0.05 although low values were observed until 14 weeks.

the levels of bacteroidetes and bacteroides correlated with feed intake body weight and plasma leptin or plasma urea nitrogen pun concentration.

a b c dvalues not sharing common superscripts differ significantly p  0.05. data are shown as mean - se n 14 10.total scfa concentrationthe concentration of total scfa increased until 8 weeks after the start of the experiment p  0.05 and decreased at 14 weeks p  0.05 .

the level of firmicutes increased p  0.05 whereas those of bacteroides and bacteroidetes decreased p  0.05 with fattening.

furthermore the levels of bacteroidetes and bacteroides correlated with body weight and the correlation coefficient in bacteroides was higher than that in bacteroidetes.

plasma leptin and pun concentrations significantly correlated with the levels of bacteroidetes and bacteroides and the levels of faecal gut microbes changed with changes in fat accumulation and growth.

blood samples were collected from each pig via jugular venipuncture into heparinized tubes at 0900 every 2 weeks and then centrifuged at 1400 x g for 15 min at 4 0c to obtain plasma which was stored at 80 0c for determining plasma leptin and urea nitrogen pun concentrations.measurementplasma leptin concentration was determined using a radioim- munoassay kit multi-species leptin ria kit linco research st. charles mo.

