Since walnuts contain protein fat carbohydrate and fiber these macro- nutrients were adjusted in the replacement diet that contained no walnuts  using the values for walnuts found in the USDA nutrient database .

Adding walnuts to the diet increased Lactobacillus Ruminococcus and Roseburia suggesting a prebiotic role for walnuts some part of the walnut escaped assimilation in the small intestine and was fermented in the colon or events in the upper tract migrated downstream positively altering the composition of the gut microbiome.The addition of walnuts to the diet shifted the relative abundance of the inferred functional capacities of the microbial communities.

It was not the intent of this study to determine the impact of individual constituents but to examine walnuts as a whole since humans eat whole walnuts.

First Alphacel a 99 cellulose based fiber was used to replace the fiber in walnuts as it is readily available and the type of fiber present in walnuts has yet to be identified.

Based on our current understanding of these phyla shifts the increased abundance of Fir- micutes microbes seen when walnuts are incorporated continuously long-term into the diet may not be perceived as beneficial but the animals consuming walnuts had greater microbial diversity than those animals on the replacement diet.

Available online at ScienceDirectChanges in the gut microbial communities following addition of walnuts to the dietLauri O. Byerleya Derrick Samuelsonb Eugene Blanchard IV c Meng Luoc Brittany N. LorenzenaShelia Banksa Monica A. Ponderd David A. Welshbc Christopher M. TaylorcaDepartment of Physiology School of Medicine Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center 1901 Perdido St. New Orleans LA 70112bDepartment of Internal Medicine School of Medicine Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center 1901 Perdido St New Orleans LA 70112cDepartment of Microbiology Immunology and Parasitology School of Medicine Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center 1901 Perdido St. New Orleans LA 70112dDepartment of Food Science and Technology 401-D HABB1 Virginia Tech Blacksburg VA United States 24061Received 6 February 2017 received in revised form 19 June 2017 accepted 6 July 2017AbstractWalnuts are rich in omega-3 fatty acids phytochemicals and antioxidants making them unique compared to other foods.

Consuming walnuts has been associated with health benefits including a reduced risk of heart disease and cancer.

One potential mechanism by which walnuts may exert their health benefit is through modifying the gut microbiome.

This study identified the changes in the gut microbial communities that occur following the inclusion of walnuts in the diet.

Male Fischer 344 rats n20 were randomly assigned to one of two diets for as long as 10 weeks 1 walnut W and 2 replacement R in which the fat fiber and protein in walnuts were matched with corn oil protein casein and a cellulose fiber source.

