while we did not study the finished vermicompost during the ageing process after removal from the tanks the microbial communitytable 1 nutrient and chemical properties of the substrate mixture during different stages of vermicomposting of coconut leaves byeudrilus sp.parameter15th day45th day75th day105th dayvalues presented are mean - standard deviation from triplicate samplestable 2 diversity indices for the vermicompost and earthworm gut bacterial communities after normalizing for sample sizekf indices were calculated at d  0.03 using a random subsample of 250 sequences per replicate and then averaged for all replicates of a sample except for the ikf estimate as explained below.

these findings further support the use of vermicompost for improving plant productivity.linking the bacterial communities of substrate and earthworm gutone of the main objectives of this study was to examine the role of the earthworm microbial commu- nity on vermicomposting and whether the earthworm community could serve as the inoculum for the major decomposers of the vermicompost microbial commu- nity.

the coconut leaf vermicompost also contains high levels of plant-beneficial microorganisms and its application not only improves the soil microbial biomass and fertility but also significantly increases the coconut yield gopal et al.

the presence of only few shared otus sug- gested that the increase in firmicutes was due to community succession in the vermicomposting pro- cess and not direct inoculation by the earthworms.the total bacterial community composition was very different for the coconut leaf vermicompost than other substrates.

similarly com- bined application of coconut leaf vermicompost and biofertilizer also increased the chlorophyll index in the leaves of coconut palms as compared to chemical fertilizer application hebbar et al.

in comparison with the vermicompost bacterial community the earthworm gut bacterial community eb75 showed consistently lowerdiversity tables  s2 fig.

on a wet weight basis the ratio of coconut leaves to cow dung slurry was 101. two more layers of chopped coconut leaves and cow dung slurry were added to each tank above which a layer of dried grass or coconut leaves was spread as mulch.

both functional attributes would lower the levels of alkaloids in the mature vermicompost thereby suggesting an indirect mechanism for enhancement of plant growth by the vermicompost microbiome.

alpha diversity measurements revealed an increase in bacterial diver- sity till the 75th day which then declined in the mature vermicompost.

imputed metagenomics further identified specific changes in the functional capacity of the microorganisms thatwere likely to be involved during different stages of vermicomposting.materials and methodscoconut leaf vermicompost productionthe process of vermicomposting of coconut leaves using an indigenous isolate of african night crawler eudrilus sp.

specifically i on the 15th day upon completion of pre-decomposition stage just before the addition of earthworms va15 and vb15 ii on 45th day 30 days after addition of earthworms during the second stage va45 and vb45 iii on 75th day 60 days after addition of the earthworms when conversion of more than 50 substrates to vermi- compost was complete va75 and vb75 and iv on 105th day 90 days after inoculation of the worms when mature sieved coconut leaf vermicompost was ready va105 and vb105 fig.

this intrinsic error rate is very high and especially problematic for estimating the rare biosphere.description of the bacterial 16s rrna gene dataalthough dna was successfully extracted from all vermicompost samples 11 of the 12 earthworm samples yielded very little community dna and could be pcr amplified only upon cleaning and concentrating the dna using the mobio dna clean-up kit.

the results indicated that the bacterial diversity did increase as the substrates were converted to vermicompost by the earthworms and then decreased in the finished product.

in comparison culturing studies conducted earlier on mature coconut leaf vermicompost and vermicasts led to the isolation ofonly a very small fraction of genera of bacteria-- bacillus xanthomonas micrococcus arthrobacter pseudomonas flavobacterium alcaligenes and actinomycetes--actinomyces streptomycesmicromonospora nocardia and thermoactinomyces thomas et al.

it is therefore very likely that the coconut leaf vermicompost possessed a very different microbial community.the succession of dominant bacteria was also reflected in the overall change in community compo- sition during vermicomposting.

