respiratory research 2017 1829doi 10.1186s12931-017-0511-3changes in the respiratory microbiome during acute exacerbations of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosisphilip l. molyneaux12 michael j cox1 athol u. wells2 ho cheol kim3 wonjun ji3 william o. c. cookson1 miriam f. moffatt1 dong soon kim3 and toby m. maher124backgroundcurrent diagnostic criteria for acute exacerbations of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ae-ipf clearly distin- guish them from exacerbations of other respiratory dis- eases prior to the latest iteration of the guidelines diagnosis of an ae-ipf specifically required the exclu- sion of any infective trigger the exact pathogenesis however remains unknown and it is currently unclear whether ae-ipf represent an accelerated phase of the underlying fibroproliferative process or an exaggerated lung injury response to unidentified preceding or coex- istent infection there are a number of factors sup- porting a role for infection i seasonal patterns exist with increased ae-ipf occurring during the winter months ii respiratory tract infections in individuals with ipf confer a mortality risk indistinguishable from that seen with acute exacerbations iii post mortem examination in cases of confirmed infection frequently discloses diffuse alveolar damage identical to that seen correspondence equal contributors1national heart and lung institute imperial college london uk2royal brompton hospital london ukfull list of author information is available at the end of the articleduring an ae-ipf and iv immunosuppression is associ- ated with an increased rate of acute exacerbations given the limited sensitivity of culture-dependant clin- ical microbiology techniques it is plausible that many ep- isodes of apparent ae-ipf arise as the sequelae of infection while the role of viruses in ae-ipf has been extensively investigated there has been little focus on a potential role for bacteria despite recent evi- dence that bacterial burden is increased in the ipf lung and changes in the microbiome relate to disease out- comes  in order to explore changes in the bron- choalveolar lavage bal microbiota during an ae-ipf 16s rrna gene qpcr and pyrosequencing were per- formed on both stable and exacerbation samples in sub- jects with ipf.materialsstudy designpatients with ae-ipf undergoing bronchoscopy were re- cruited prospectively from the university of ulsan korea.

all analyses were per- formed with the use of spss version 21 and r  a two-sided p value of less than0.05 was considered to indicate statistical significance.resultstwenty patients with acute exacerbations of ipf and 15 matched control patients with stable ipf were enrolled at the university of ulsan in seoul korea table the patients were matched for age sex smoking history and baseline lung function.

nonetheless our observations challenge the current paradigm for ae-ipf and provide a rationale for clinical trials of prophylactic antibiotics as a strategy to prevent acute exacerbations in individuals with ipf.abbreviations16s rrna 16s ribosomal rna gene ae-ipf acute exacerbation of ipf bal bronchoalveolar lavage otus operational taxonomic unitsacknowledgementsnot applicable.fundingplm was an asmarley clinical research fellow.

the bacterial communities of the stable korean ipf subjects were found to contain streptococcus prevotella veillonella haemophilus and pseudomonas which are all commonly found in the air- ways of healthy individuals as well as subjects with asthma copd and ipf   .

control patients with stable ipf defined by the absence of acute exacerbation were recruited alongside ae-ipf patients and underwent bronchoscopy at the time of diagnosis.

specifically none of the otus demonstrated a correlation with a lower bacter- ial burden which can indicate a contaminant  and the inclusion of negative reagent controls which yielded bac- terial burden close to or below the lower limit of qpcr quantification also demonstrates that the qpcr results are not a sampling or processing artefact.unlike exacerbations of other respiratory conditions which are truly acute events the onset of an exacerba- tion in ipf is more insidious with a gradual worsening over days to weeks.

the average survival in the ae-ipf cohort was 187 -65 days compared to 568 -70 days in the controls p  0.0004. thirteen 65 of the subjects experiencing an exacerbation died in the following 60 days and six pa- tients received mechanical ventilation.all 35 samples yielded genomic dna and underwent amplification of the v3-v5 region of the 16s rrna gene.table 1 baseline characteristics of the subjectsdetails are provided for stable ipf and for ae-ipf cases.

p  0.01 were present in the stable ipf samples.

dlco carbon monoxide diffusion capacity fvc forced vital capacitythree of the samples two exacerbation samples and one stable sample yielded insufficient 16s rrna gene prod- uct to undergo pyrosequencing and were therefore ex- cluded.

a diagnosis of ipf was made according to inter- national guidelines  following multidisciplinary team discussion.

this was over four times higher than the copy number in thestable ipf subjects p  0.012 fig.

bacterial burden remained significantly associated with a diagnosis of ae-ipf using a stepwise logistic regression incorporating sex age and smoking status p  0.029 r2 0.51 and correlated strongly with disease state spear- man's r  0.45 p 0.008 indicating that total bacterial load is significantly associated with an ae-ipf.at phylum level the microbiota of the stable ipf sub- jects was dominated by firmicutes 34 proteobacteria 32 bacteroidetes 16 and actinobacteria 10. al- though the same phyla predominated in the ae-ipf sub- jects proteobacteria accounted for over 40 of the total reads p  0.12 with the percentage of reads assigned to firmicutes bacteroidetes and actinobacteria dropping compared to the stable subjects 29 14 and 6respectively fig.

han and colleagues  found both streptococcus and staphylo- coccus otus to be associated with ipf disease progres- sion.

here we do not find any significant difference in the proportion of either species between the stable and exacerbation groups.discussionae-ipf is associated with an increased bal bacterial bur- den compared to stable ipf.

the very nature of ae- ipf make them severe and unpredictable events and therefore microbiological sampling is often difficult and carries a high morbidity.

