both the clinical response rate and the clinical remission rate were better than observed following afm monotherapy but not significantly better table 4. evaluation of factors correlated with clinical response revealed that sex age mayo score at baseline disease extent and ongoing treatment did not affect clinical responses in both groups however the endoscopic sum score was associated with clinical responses in this patient population n 14 3 p 0.04 in combination therapy with afm and fmt data not shown.120  16s rdna-based microbiome analysisfrom dna libraries of 16s rdna pcr products we obtained an average of 505095 534657 592379 and 572602 reads per sample in four groups n 17 specimens per group healthy donors patients with uc before therapy patients with uc after 2 weeks of afm pretreatment and patients with uc at 4 weeks after fmt therapy respectively see table s1 supplemen- tal digital content 1 we also obtained an average of 252293 190038 219467 and 281449 reads per sample in four groups patients with uc before therapy patients with uc after a 2-week afm course and patients with uc at 4 weeks and 8 weeks after afm therapy respectively see table s2 supplemental digital content 2 ibdb395 n 16 specimens at 8 weeks posttreatment in the afm monotherapy group otherwise n 19 specimens per group.

according to previous reports the intake of multiple antibiotics produces profound effects on the intestinal microbiome compared with treatment with a single antibiotic.2122 afm therapy may enhance the effect of fmt by eradicating pathogenic bacteria and resetting the dysbiotic intestinal microbiota while minimizing the recipient microbiota facilitating the establishment of the exogenous microbiota.figure 4. a 100 stacked bar chart showing microbiota analysis at the phylum level for 19 patients with uc before undergoing afm therapy a after afm therapy b and at 4 weeks after afm therapy c.fmt may also reverse antimicrobial-associated dysbiosis involving a high proportion of proteobacteria caused by afm therapy thereby enhancing the efficacy of treatment and has- tening therapeutic responses.

hence we studied the impact of antibiotic pretreatment with amoxicillin fosfomycin and metronidazole afm therapy and fmt versus afm alone.methods afm therapy was administered to patients for 2 weeks until 2 days before fmt.

in the afm monotherapy group only colonoscopic evaluation was per- formed after afm therapy and clinical features were judged at 4 weeks after afm therapy.

in the afm mono- therapy group fecal samples were collected from patients before treatment after completing afm therapy and at 4 and 8 weeks post-afm treatment.

all authors had access to the study data and have reviewed and approved the final manuscript.resultscharacteristics of patientsin the group of combination therapy with afm therapy and fmt 21 patients were enrolled.

as shown in supplemental figure s1 supplemental digital content 3 ibdb396 afm pretreatment caused selection for enterobacter- iaceae among the proteobacteria phylum in the gut microbiota.among 17 cases treated with combination fmt and afm therapy the proportion of bacteroidetes in 14 cases recovered was 27.4 6 10.8 at 4 weeks after fmt therapy following afm.chinese herbal medicine31we also observed improvements in patients' clinical symptomsscores in all responders.

the relative abundance of bacteroidetes decreased significantly from 20.4 6 11.1 before2c and 9c did not exhibit recovery in terms of bacteroidetes abundance after 2 weeks of afm therapy through 4 weeks post-fmt therapy and clinical improvement was also not observed nonresponders.

3.a 100 stacked bar chart showing microbiota analysis at the phylum level for 19 patients with uc before undergoing afm monotherapy after completing afm therapy and at 4 weeks posttherapy is presented in figure 4. among the 19 cases treated with afm monotherapy the relative abundance of bacteroidetes decreased significantly from 9.8 6 8.2 to 0.4 6 0.7 p  0.0001 following afm therapy.

the relative abundance of bac- teroidetes observed in 6 cases 31.6 was 11.9 6 6.3 at 4table 4. comparison of clinical outcomes in patients receiving afm monotherapy versus those receiving combination therapy with afm and fmtafmweeks post-afm therapy.

5. in patients with severe clinical symp- toms based on endoscopic scores the relative abundance of bac- teroidetes did not increase and improvement of uc symptoms was not observed.no correlations between clinical aspects and the relative abundances of phyla were detected except for the recovery offigure 3. the relative abundance of bacteroidetes following combi- nation therapy with afm and fmt at 4 weeks posttreatment was significantly higher p  0.0001 than that in patients receiving afm monotherapy n 14 17 receiving combination therapy afm plus fmt n 14 19 receiving afm monotherapy.

the clinical outcomes of combination therapy with afm and fmt were better than those observed for afm monotherapy and the recovery of bacteroidetes was correlated with combined therapy only.

original articlechanges in intestinal microbiota following combination therapy with fecal microbial transplantation and antibiotics for ulcerative colitisdai ishikawa md phd takashi sasaki phd taro osada md phd kyoko kuwahara-arai phd keiichi haga md phd tomoyoshi shibuya md phd keiichi hiramatsu md phdand sumio watanabe md phdbackground fecal microbiota transplantation fmt is a potential therapeutic approach to restore normal intestinal microbiota in patients with ulcerative colitis uc which is associated with dysbiosis however treatment efficacy remains unclear.

thirty-six patients completed this assessment combination-therapy group n 14 17 afm monotherapy group n 14 19. a higher clinical response was observed after combination therapy compared with afm monotherapy at 4 weeks after treatment.

after the 2-week afm therapy the bacteroidetes composition was nearly abolished.

