therefore our findings indicate that f. nucleatum may have been responsi- ble for higher levels of these gases in the stressed group with increased production possibly being due to a direct effect of stress in stimulation of vscs production by f. nucleatum.another mechanism that could explain the increase in vscs production by f. nucleatum is the ability of s. moorei to interact with other bacteria including species of fusobacterium as suggested by other authors since these two bacteria were found to cause endodontic infection  wound infection  septic pulmonary embolization  and periodontitis .in agreement with this hypothesis s. moorei was found in higher amounts in the stressed group and presented a moderate positive correlation with the presence of f. nucleatum.

mann-whitney test  p  0.05.there was a statistically significant difference between the groups for salivary s. mooreip  0.01. for both groups the saliva samples were negative for p. gingivalis.shows the relationship between the vscs values and the amounts of bacterial in saliva spearman correlation test.there were moderate positive correlations between f. nucleatum and h2s p  0.006 f. nucleatum and ch3sh p  0.01 and s. moorei and ch3sh p  0.008 but only in the stressed group .the data obtained and  suggested that s. moorei and f. nucleatum could have been responsible for the increased vscs production in the stressed group .

here we found a correlation coefficients rs between h2s ch3sh and ch32s and the relative proportions of a. odontolyticus f. nucleatum s. mooreidenticola t. forsythia and v. dispar in the saliva of subjects from the stressed and not stressed groups.spearman's correlation test p  0.05.correlation coefficients rs between the relative proportions of s. moorei or f. nucleatum and the relative proportions of a. odontolyticusao t. denticola td t. forsythia tf and v. dispar vd for the stressed and not stressed groups.spearman's correlation test p  0.01.moderate positive correlation between s. moorei and ch3sh in stressed subjects which sug- gests that the presence of a stress condition might be important for it.

the pellets were washed and the bacterial inoculum was prepared in phosphate buffer saline pbs ph 7.7 at an optical density of 0.1 at 660 nm.the following suspensions were kept in 20 ml headspace vials and incubated at 37c for 1 h 1 s. moorei--100 ml of s. moorei inoculum  885 ml of pbs  15 ml of 33 mm l-cysteine sigma poole uk 2 f. nucleatum--100 ml of f. nucleatum inoculum  885 ml of pbs 15 ml of 33 mm l-cysteine 3 s. moorei  f. nucleatum--100 ml of s. moorei inoculum 100 ml of f. nucleatum inoculum  785 ml of pbs  15 ml of 33 mm l-cysteine.after incubation the reaction was stopped by the addition of 500 ml of 3 m phosphoric acid during 10 min.

in light of this information we suggest that s. moorei and f. nucleatum may interact participating in different steps of vscs production with s. moorei gram-positive being responsible for deglycosylation and f. nucleatum and t. forsythia gram-negative acting in subsequent protein degradation resulting in raised vscs levels in stressed subjects.

more- over s. moorei was correlated with increased production of ch3sh in the stressed group even though it is not able to produce this gas.means and standard deviations for the in vitro production of h2s ppb by s. moorei sm f. nucleatum fn and the h2s production by sm and fn when they were grown together sm  fn.

the in vitro experiment demonstrated that s. moorei increased h2s production by f. nucleatum p  0.05 anova and tukey's test.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.conclusionthe increased amount of s. moorei in saliva and its coexistence with f. nucleatum and t. forsythia seemed to be responsible for increased oral hydrogen sulfide in the healthy male stressed subjects.introductionhalitosis can be a physiological andor a pathological condition .

in the present study f. nucleatum levels were not altered but this bacte- rium showed correlations with the levels of h2s and ch3sh in stressed subjects.the concentrations of stress-related substances in saliva may be altered under conditions of academic-related chronic stress creating a favorable environment for the growth of s. moorei and its interaction with other bacteria species such as f. nucleatum resulting in an increase in vscs production in the oral cavity.

the results are shown in .the h2s production obtained for the co-culture of s. moorei and f. nucleatum was signifi- cantly higher than the h2s production values for s. moorei or f. nucleatum grown individually anova and tukey's test p  0.0001.discussionhalitosis is characterized by an emanation of malodorous compounds from the oral cavity .

different letters indicate statistically significant differences between groups anova and tukey's testp  0.05.we believe that these bacteria may be responsible for increased vscs production in stressed subjects as s. moorei and f. nucleatum were correlated with each other and with vscs produc- tion in subjects with stress.

in addition correlations were observed between oral vscs and f. nucleatum and s. moorei  and among s. moorei f. nucleatum and t. forsythia .

there were moderate positive correlations between the following pairs of vari- ables fusobacterium nucleatum and s. moorei f. nucleatum and hydrogen sulfide tan- nerella forsythia and f. nucleatum t. forsythia and s. moorei.

therefore future studies are necessary to understand the possible correla- tion of s. moorei with ch3sh.the relative proportion of f. nucleatum showed no significant difference between the stressed and not stressed groups but presented moderate positive correlations with h2s and ch3sh levels only in stressed subjects.

there was no significant difference between the groups for ch3sh production.the total bacterial counts and the relative proportions of bacterial species producing vscs including a. odontolyticus f. nucleatum s. moorei t. denticola t. forsythia and v. dispar in saliva samples of volunteers from the stressed and not stressed groups are shown in .

furthermore our results show that an increased relative proportion of s. moorei in saliva could be associated with greater vscs production in stressed healthy undergraduate students.it was reported elsewhere that s. moorei seemed to be a low vscs producer compared to other oral microorganisms and was unable to produce ch3sh .

