diabetes 2007 56 1761-1772.qin j li y cai z li s zhu j zhang f liang s zhang w guan y shen d peng y zhang d jie z wu w qin y xue w li j han l lu d wu p dai y sun x li z tang a zhong s li x chen w xu r wang m feng q gong m yu j zhang y zhang m hansen t sanchez g raes j fal- ony g okuda s almeida m lechatelier e re- nault p pons n batto jm zhang z chen h yang r zheng w li s yang h wang j ehrlich sd nielsen r pedersen o kristiansen k and wang j. a metagenome-wide association study of gut microbiota in type 2 diabetes.

data were presented as mean - sd and statistical significance was performed using the student's t-test.discussiona number of major novel findings in this study were as follows 1 rygb significantly affected the phenotypes of monocytes in obese t2d with a decrease in the inflammatory subpopula- tions of monocytes 2 in parallel with the alter- ations in the phenotypes the biological func- tions as assessed by monocyte migration and proinflammatory cytokines of the monocytes subsets were also significantly declined after rygb in the obese t2d patients 3 a significant change of gut microbiota after rygb was detected mainly with an increase in bifid- obacterium but a decrease in escherichia 4 spearman's rank correlation coefficient analy-sis revealed a significant correlation between the shift of gut microbiota and the variations in the frequencies of inflammatory monocyte sub- sets and cytokines.in agreement with a previous report our data showed that rgyb reduced the percentages of both cd14dimcd16 and cd14cd16 mono- cytes in t2d subjects 15 as well as the levels of tnf-a and il-6 the cytokines associated with insulin resistance in cd14cd16 mono- cytes 16 17. in addition we observed a reduction in the expression of tlr-4 on cd14cd16- and cd14cd16 monocytes.

although a correlation was observed between the change in gut microbiota and the alterations in phenotypes and biological func- tions of monocytes it is difficult to exclude the possibility that the variation in gut microbiota is directly resulted from rygb or other factors such as diet since rygb reduces preference for high-fat food and total caloric intake which was associated with the composition of the gut microbiota 30.in conclusion the results of our study suggest that alterations of the gut bacterial population are strongly correlated with changes in both phenotypes and biological functions of mono- cytes which in turn may contribute to the low- grade chronic inflammation in obese t2d.

indian j endocrinol metab 2016 20 523-530.kong lc tap j aron-wisnewsky j basdevant a bouillot jl zucker jd dore j and clement k. gut microbiota after gastric bypass in human obesity increased richness and associations of bacterial genera with adipose tissue genes.

int j immunopathol phar- macol 2015 28 374-383.furet j p kong lc tap j poitou c basdevant a bouillot jl mariat d corthier g dore j hen- egar c rizkalla s and clement k. differential adaptation of human gut microbiota to bariat- ric surgery-induced weight loss links with met- abolic and low-grade inflammation markers.

conclusions this study for the first time demonstrated a link between the changes in gut microbiota and alterations in both phenotypes and functions of monocytes after rygb which may contribute significantly to the low-grade chronic inflammation in obese t2d patients.keywords gut microbiota type 2 diabetes monocytes subsets chronic inflammation cytokineintroductionlow-grade chronic inflammation is character- ized by high levels of inflammatory markers such as interleukins cytokines and c-reactive protein and is considered one of the major traits in type 2 diabetes t2d and obesity 1. the molecular mechanism behind t2d-asso- ciated chronic inflammation is not well under- stood.

j clin endo- crinol metab 2014 99 2500-2509.remely m dworzak s hippe b zwielehner j aumuller e brath h and haslberger a. abun- dance and diversity of microbiota in type 2 dia- betes and obesity.

j immunol 2015 194 3917-3923.cani pd amar j iglesias ma poggi m knauf c bastelica d neyrinck am fava f tuohy km chabo c waget a delmee e cousin b sulpice t chamontin b ferrieres j tanti jf gibson gr casteilla l delzenne nm alessi mc and burcelin r. metabolic endotoxemia initiates obesity and insulin resistance.

our results showed an alteration in the distribution of monocyte subsets 6 months after rygb versus before rygb where the per- centages of both ncm cd14dimcd16 and im cd14cd16 in peripheral blood were signifi- cantly reduced p0.05 figure 1c 1d and that of cm significantly increased p0.05 figure 1e.

firmicutes and bacteriodetes phyla constitute about 90 of all intestinal gut bacte- ria 13. as shown in figure 4 the abundance of intestinal bacteroidetes phyla was significantly increased after rygb figure 4b p0.05 whereas the abundance of intestinal firmicutes phyla showed no significant difference figure 4a p0.05.although bifidobacterium is not predominating in the gut bacteria it seems to play a pivotal role in host metabolism 14. we observed a significant increase in the numbers of bifido- bacterium after rygb figure 4d p0.05.

a monocytes were initially gated based on light forward and side scatter b plots showing cd14 and cd16 expression on gated monocytes percentages of c intermediate monocytes im d classical monocytes cm and e non-classical monocytes ncm from patients before m0 and six months after rygb m6 f intracellular cytokines tnf-a and g il-6 assessed by mfi in the three monocyte subsets from patients before and after rygb.

a the percentage of tlr4 positive cells and b tlr4 assessed by mfi on the three monocytes subsets from the patients before and after rygb c the percentage of tlr2 positive cells and d tlr2 assessed by mfi on monocytes subsets from patients before and af- ter rygb.

pre- vious studies reported that tlr-4 lps crp mmp-9 and mcp-1 decreased significantly infigure 3. effects of rygb on the expression of chemokine receptors and chemokine-induced monocyte migration.a ccr2 and b cx3cr1 expressions on monocyte subpopulations from patients before and after rygb.

a b. represent correlations between the varia- tion of bacteroidetes and the alteration of cd14dimcd16 ncm and cd14cd16 im monocytes respectively from patients before m0 and six months after rygb m6 c d. represent correlations between the variation of bifidobacterium and the changes of ccr2 and cx3cr1 mfi on cd14cd16 monocytes respectively from patients before m0 and six months after rygb m6.

r denotes the spearman's correlation coefficient and the p value represents statistical significance.t2d patients after rygb 18. based on these results rygb may lead to an anti-inflammatory effect through reducing pro-inflammatory mon- ocyte subsets.

