while multiple research projects have focused on the effects of gut microbiota on the immune response of the gastrointestinal mucosa25-27 few papers have focused on the effects of the lower airway microbiota on the respiratory mucosa that it inhabits23 28-30. some of the unique challenges studying the lower airway microbiome include the technical difficulty sampling the lower respiratory tract the extremely low bacterial burden in healthy lung leading to low signal to high noise ratio and the lack of animal models to study the lung microbiome31 32. shifts in gastrointestinal microorganism composition in organ systems that contain high bacterial biomass such as the gastrointestinal tract can lead to broad observations resulting in disease states33.however the lung microbiome is a low bacterial burden organ where transient perturbationscorresponding author benjamin g. wu wu and segalpage 2of its microbiome can have dramatic effects on the diversity of its composition and the host inflammatory response to dysbiosis23.

the boundary between what and where we define as upper versus lower airways is classically defined by anatomical structures with the vocal cords being analogous to a natural 'dam' against aspiration36 37. similar to the water held by a dam the upper airways hold a high bacterial burden while lower airway microbiota has about 100 to 10000 times less bacterial burden based on 16s rrna copies32 38. microaspiration occurs in normal individuals39 and its prevalence is higher in several lung diseases including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease copd asthma obstructive sleep apnea cystic fibrosis and lung infections due to atypical such as non-tuberculous mycobacteria and typical microorganisms40-45.charlson and colleagues who in initial studies examined bronchoscopy results from six healthy patients and concluded that the lower respiratory tract resembled the microbiome of the upper respiratory tract 32. further microbiome work from cell-free bronchoalveolar lavage bal have noted that bacteria characteristic of the oral cavity is found in about 45 of relatively healthy subjects the remaining subjects had a lung microbiome that resembled the background taxa23 30. other studies have found bacteria characteristic of the oral cavity at higher prevalence although it is unclear if this is related to sample type utilized acellular bal vs. whole bal vs. airway brush or differences in cohorts32 46-48.importantly a dichotomized view of the lower airway microbiota enriched with upper airway microbes vs. not is likely an oversimplification of a more likely physiological continuum of similarity between the lower and upper airway microbiota.

most importantly host responses and medications deserve particular attention as these mechanisms remain largely unexplored in current literature in relation to their effects on the lung microbiome.the lung microbiome in disease statesmorris and colleagues studied the microbiome of healthy subjects and healthy smokers in a study of the lung microbiome 85. they found that the most common genera in both oral wash and bronchoalveolar lavage bal were microorganisms commonly found in the oral cavity prevotella streptococcus and veillonella.

thus changes in the lung microbiome that may be related to a subject having a copd exacerbation may be lost early on in the disease and the changes seen may be due to an antibiotic effect on the lung microbiome117.pragman and colleagues addressed the lung microbiome of moderate and severe copd subjects with relatively stable disease and compared them to healthy subjects.

in a dichotomized grouping of the lung microbiome two distinct lung microbiomes pneumotypes could be identified one characterized by enrichment with supraglottic predominant taxa pneumotypespt - figure 2 and another pneumotype characterized by enrichment with background predominant taxa pneumotypebpt - figure2 23. the degree of similarity with upper airway can also be used to characterize the lung microbiome where lower unifrac distance a measurement of dissimilarity based on relative abundance and a phylogenetic tree occurs in bal samples enrichment with supraglottic predominant taxa pneumotypespt however the metabolic activity of these taxa is currently unknown93 149. moreover the organization of the cohorts into these two pneumotypes figure 2 was supported by contributed phage data30.

this attenuated innate immune response in this distinct lung microbiome may therefore be an important counterregulatory mechanism present in alveolar macrophages needed to attenuate the inflammatory immune response in the lung mucosa3 30 145 147. this is in line with multiple other counterregulatory mechanisms found in other organ systems including the gastrointestinal tract3 145-147.th17 inflammatory pathway and il-17 upregulation are not the only pathways that may be upregulated in a host with lung dysbiosis.

2014 228. pubmed 25206976beck jm schloss pd venkataraman a twigg h 3rd jablonski ka bushman fd campbell tb charlson es collman rg crothers k curtis jl drews kl flores sc fontenot ap foulkes ma frank i ghedin e huang l lynch sv morris a palmer be schmidt tm sodergren e weinstock gm young vb lung hivmp.

2016 315175-184. pubmed 26757466oliver a canton r campo p baquero f blazquez j. high frequency of hypermutable pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis lung infection.

2011 5780-791. pubmed 21151003willner d haynes mr furlan m schmieder r lim yw rainey pb rohwer f conrad d. spatial distribution of microbial communities in the cystic fibrosis lung.

several questions remained unanswered 1 what other microbiota from different mucosa contribute to the cross pollination of microbes to the lower airways 2 what selection pressures do microbes suffer as they enter the lower airways and 3 how does this selection pressure change in different compartments of the lower airways.unique challenges with evaluating the lung microbiomeone particular challenge that research in the lung microbiome has yet to resolve is the microbiome signal to background noise ratio during health and early disease figure 1 31. while this might also be important in advanced disease states the signal to noise ratio is highly unfavorable in early stages of disease where there is low microbial biomass in lower airway samples.

thus the microorganisms found in the respiratory system likely reflect a highly specialized strain or species that are in constant balance with a highly immune active mucosa103 104. experimental approaches are needed to study how these factors affect the selection pressures that shape the lower airway microbiome.the lung environment ecosystem can also be thought of as a series of forward and feedback loops that suppresses or allows the underlying lung bacteria to grow88.

in a murine model of this theory poroyko and colleagues conducted a study of lipopolysaccharide lps-induced acute lung injury and studied the changes in the murine lung microbiome106.

therefore steroid-induced suppression of mait cells may be responsible for the increased risk of pneumonia in subjects with airway diseases115.unique selection pressures of the lung may have profound impact on the lung microbiome.

although the study did detect organisms found more abundant in the lung than in the oral cavity including haemophilus enterobacteriaceae and tropheryma whipplei differences in the lung microbiota between smokers and non-smokers were not found85.

other studies have also described differences in the lung microbiome of copd28 65 116.however most copd microbiome studies have focused on gold stage iv copd and samples collected from explanted lungs where other confounders such as use of inhaled steroids and frequent courses of antibiotics are commonly present and may confound the lung microbiome.

