In present study the four female golden takins demonstrated highly similar microbiota and the five golden takin males had relatively highly similar microbiota although J6 and J7 were relatively far from the other three samples which might indicate that the fecal microbiota of golden takins might also be influenced by the animal's sex.

Among these 18 genera Parabacteroides Sphaerochaeta Ruminiclostridium1 and Phascolarcto- bacterium were significantly higher in group A while theothers were significantly higher in group B. Additionally 13 of the 18 genera belonged to Firmicutes.DiscussionIn present study we first performed high-throughput sequencing to characterize the microbial community in the golden takin.

The number of species in group A was lower than that in group B Fig.

The result indi- cated that the sample J1 J2 J3 and J4 group A grouped together while the sample J5 J6 J7 and J8 group B clus- tered together Fig.

Unclassified bacteria and their func- tions in different hosts required further research.The PCA and heatmap analyses indicated that the sepa- ration was observed between the microbiota of group A and group B.

AMB Expr 2017 781DOI 10.1186s13568-017-0374-5Characterization of the gut microbiotain the golden takin Budorcas taxicolor bedfordiJun Chen1 Huanxin Zhang2 Xiaoyang Wu1 Shuai Shang2 Jiakuo Yan1 Yao Chen1 Honghai Zhang1 and Xuexi Tang2IntroductionThe takin Budorcas taxicolor is a large Himalayan ungu- late in the family Bovidae which is classified into four subspecies based on distinct differences in physical char- acteristics and geographic location including the golden takin B. t.bedfordi the Mishmi takin B. t.taxicolor the Sichuan takin B. t. Tibetana and the Bhutan takin B. t.whitei.

However the physiological mechanisms underlying sexual influence were uncertain.In conclusion we describe the predominant fecal bac- terial populations in golden takin and offered the taxo- nomic baseline for further research investigating the intestinal ecosystems in golden takins.

The golden takin and the Sichuan takin are endemic subspecies of China.

The golden takin is a type of social bovid herbivore.

The rarefaction curves tended to approach the saturation plateau while the rank abundance curves revealed a few dominant taxa and many low-abundance taxa comprising the bacterial com- munity of the golden takin Fig.

