environmental biotechnologyintroductionthiocyanate scn- is present at high concentrations in the waste-streams of gold mining and coal gasification dash et al.

through the reaction between its precursor com- pounds cyanide cn- and reduced sulphur mudder et al.

disposal and storage of scn--containing waste often results in contamination of ground- and surface-waters due to the use of unlined storage facilities kossoff et al.

although less toxic than its precursor cn- scn- can accu- mulate to concentrations toxic to plant and animal life bhunia et al.

gould et al.

the ability of somemicroorganisms to degrade scn- offers a cost-effective and scalable approach to scn- remediation.a number of microorganisms are capable of scn- degra-dation utilizing it as an energy nitrogen sulphur andor car- bon source gould et al.

the former pathway is well-characterized proceeding by twostages mediated by the action of scn--hydrolase and cos- hydrolase enzymes katayama et al.

ogawa et al.

the latter pathway is proposed to proceed via a thiocyanatecytochrome c oxidoreductase to cno- and ele- mental sulphur  s0 identified in species of the thioalkalivibrio genus berben et al.

significantly cno- formed abiotically from urea or cyanide has recently been recognized as a potentially important source of reduced nitrogen for nitrifying microorganisms palatinszky et al.

however evidence for its production in mixed scn- degrading consortia is lacking leaving its role in scn- degradation in environmental systems unresolved.microorganisms that carry out scn- degradation belong toa variety of metabolic niches gould et al.

the most thoroughly studied of these belong to the chemolithoautotrophic sulphur-oxidizing bacteria which utilize the released reduced sulphur as an energy source additionally some can utilize the nitrogen released as nh4 as a growth nutrient boden et al.

a phylogenetically diverse group of heterotrophic bacteria are also capable of scn- deg- radation primarily as a nitrogen source for growth du plessis et al.

stratford et al.

in addition scn- degrada- tion is not restricted to the domain bacteria with a eukaryotic fungus acremonium strictum also reported to degrade scn- kwon et al.

