green turtles are hindgut fermenters and as the juveniles move from the pelagic to neritic habitats they gradually become herbivorous  and thus we hypothesize that these dietary shifts likely correspond to a marked transition in their gut flora.to characterize the microbiome of the green sea turtle through this ontogenetic shift the objectives of this study were to 1 make a novel observation of what bacteria are present within the juvenile green turtle and 2 compare the bacterial communities of juvenile green turtles before and after the shift from oceanic surface-pelagic habitats to inshore bays popu- lated with sea grasses.materials and methodsstudy sitessampling of juvenile green turtles occurred within pelagic and neritic portions of the northern gulf of mexico .

we found significant variation in the juvenile green turtle bacterial communities between pelagic and neritic habitats suggesting that environmental and dietary factors support different bacterial communities in green turtles from these habi- tats.

alpha diversity of bacterial communities in juvenile green turtle cloacal samplesab.aerror is represented by - 1 sdbno significant differences p  0.05 were detected among the alpha diversity metricsbody sizeto determine if variation between bacterial communities was related to the size of the green turtles the body size of all individuals was measured as straight carapace length scl and was compared between habitat types.

this suggests that the low relative abundance of firmicutes in the green turtle cloaca resembles what has been observed in other reptiles and that the cloacal microbiome may be more influenced by habi- tat than the gut.interestingly cloacal bacterial communities of juvenile green turtles sampled for this study had a consistent level of alpha diversity and evenness between habitats.

relative abundance of bacterial taxa in a juvenile green turtle fecal and cloacal samplea.docxacknowledgmentsdisclaimer any use of trade product or firm names is for descriptive purposes only and does not imply endorsement by the u.s. government.the authors would like to thank d. catizone m. digiorgio k. gault c. gindl b. hage- dorn r. hardy t. hirama k. knight e. lane a. robydek d. seay and b. stephens for sup- port throughout the sample collection as well as s. green for assisting throughout the dna sequence analysis.author contributions conceptualization jtp fvp ts.

research articlecharacterization of the juvenile green turtle chelonia mydas microbiome throughout an ontogenetic shift from pelagic to neritic habitatsjames t. price1 frank v. paladino1 margaret m. lamont2 blair e. witherington3 scottt.

bates4 tanya soule11 department of biology indiana university-purdue university fort wayne indiana united states of america 2 u.s. geological survey gainesville florida united states of america 3 disney's animals science and environment lake buena vista florida united states of america 4 department of biological sciences purdue university northwest westville indiana united states of america current address school of earth sciences the ohio state university columbus ohio united states of america open accesscitation price jt paladino fv lamont mm witherington be bates st soule t 2017 characterization of the juvenile green turtle chelonia mydas microbiome throughout an ontogenetic shift from pelagic to neritic habitats.

green turtles chelonia mydas provide an interesting model of change in these microbial communities because they undergo a pro- nounced shift from a surface-pelagic distribution and omnivorous diet to a neritic distribution and herbivorous diet.

as an alternative to direct sampling of the gut we investigated the clo- acal microbiomes of juvenile green turtles before and after recruitment to neritic waters to observe any changes in their microbial community structure.

this is the first study to characterize the cloacal microbiome of green turtles in the con- text of their ontogenetic shifts which could provide valuable insight into the origins of their gut bacteria and how the microbial community supports their shift to herbivory.public domain dedication.

some reptiles compensate for this lack of exposure to the adult gut flora by directly ingesting feces from adults in their species group or soil from areas surrounding their nest in order to jump-start a healthy gut microflora .as with other reptiles the green sea turtle chelonia mydas lacks maternal care post-ovipo- sition.

after three to six years offshore the turtles move to neritic habi- tats such as the bays that provide a refuge for sea grasses and tunicates both of which are known to be important dietary components for developing green turtles .

searches for offshore pelagic-stage green turtles were conducted daily between the 13-18th of july 2015 from the port of venice la usa.

searches were focused on floating mats of pelagic sargassum which support communities of rafting invertebrates zoo- plankton fish and some epiphytic organisms.searches for neritic juvenile green turtles were conducted at multiple inshore locations in northwestern florida usa.

the initial sampling of green turtles took place in the coastal bays of st. joseph bay sjb and crooked island sound of st. andrews bay sab between the months of september and october 2015. sjb is 21 km in length and 8 km at the widest point while the study site in sab has a length of approximately 16 km and a width of 1.6 km.

