2017. the iso- lated psychrotrophic bacteria were inoculated on sma and cja plates and incubated at 25degc for 2 d. after incu- bation the plates were examined for clear zones around colonies.results and discussionisolation and identification of psychrotrophic bac- teriafor the isolation of psychrotrophic bacteria 12 samples of chicken meat were stored at 4degc and 10degc and the period of storage was continued until observing similar patterns of spoilage on the surface including microbiolog- ical visible and organoleptic features.

the isolates were assessed for the growth at dif- ferent temperatures and media and also evaluated for pro- teolytic activity to predict their putrefactive potential.almost all of the isolated psychrotrophic bacteria were able to grow at 10degc and 25degc but some of these bacteria did not grow at 37degc even after 5 d. this is probably due to their psychrophilic characteristics.for the assessment of proteolytic activity activity was identified by a clear zone around the colonies fig.

therefore it is essential to know the dynamics of the microbiota composition as a function of the refriger- ated storage time in order to better understand how the specific spoilage bacteria evolves in chicken meat and to develop useful preservation methods.consequently further study is needed to develop better preservation methods against these spoilage bacteria.

374 535541 2017 doi httpsdoi.org10.5851kosfa.2017.37.4.535characterization of the biodiversity of the spoilage microbiota in chicken meat using next generation sequencing and culture dependent approachhee soo lee mirae kwon sunhak heo min gon kim and geun-bae kimdepartment of animal science and technology chung-ang university anseong 17546 koreaabstractthis study investigated the psychrotrophic bacteria isolated from chicken meat to character- ize their microbial composition during refrigerated storage.

molecular identification of the isolated psychrotrophic bacteria was carried out using 16s rdna sequencing and their putrefactive potential was investigated by the growth at low temperature as well as their proteolytic activities in chicken meat.

further study is needed to develop better preservation methods against these spoilage bacteria.keywords next generation sequencing psychrotrophic bacteria spoilage proteolytic acti- vity chicken meatintroductionreceived july 7 2017revised july 13 2017accepted july 13 2017corresponding authorgeun-bae kimdepartment of animal science and technology chung-ang university anseong 17546 koreatel 82-31-670-3027fax 82-31-676-5986e-mail due to improvements in economic drivers for local communities demand for animal products and particularly meat are increasing in order to meet dietary demands.

chicken meat has a short shelf life because psychrotrophic bacteria causes spoilage or off-flavors even at cold storage conditions carrizosa et al.

2012.storage temperature however is the most important fac- tor that affects the growth of bacteria present in chicken meat.

psychrotrophic bacteria can grow at refrigerated conditions and temperature can affect various microbial growth parameters including maximum growth rate and total bacterial counts mataragas et al.

2006. doulgeraki et al 2010 reported that storage temperature can affect the spoilage potential of bacteria and that different strains of the same species do not necessarily grow at the same rates.traditionally microbial populations of meat has been analyzed by culture-dependent plating methods.

it is based on the isolation and culturing of bacteria from chicken meat and identification by 16s rdna sequencing.

this method has limitations in that not all bacteria present in chicken meat can be cultivable on the plate media used in the microbial analysis grama et al.

also ngs can discrimi- nate taxa to specific strains allowing for detailed analysis of bacteria present in meat broekaert et al.

2008.the objectives of this study were to characterize the putrefactive bacteria isolated from chicken meat during cold storage and to analyze the composition of chicken meat spoilage microbiota using ngs.material and methodspreparation of chicken meat for spoilagechicken meat was purchased commercially as whole chicken with skin and chicken breast in local markets.

inoculated plates were incubated at 25degc for 24 to 48 h. after incubation colonies were randomly selected from the most diluted plates for the isolation of psychrotrophic bacteria.

