thus the use of this enzyme inevitably results in high numbers of free amino acids.table 1total and free amino acids g100 g protein of the four bwsph a  alcalase p  protamex s  savinase f  flavourzyme and recommended amino acid require- ments of adults who 2002. branched chain amino acids are highlighted in bold font.

enhancedabbreviations bht butylated hydroxytoluene bwsph blue whiting soluble protein hydrolysate dh degree of hydrolysis dpph 1 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl eaa essential amino acids eai emulsion activity index edta ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid esi emulsion stability index faa free amino acids obc oil-binding capacity sds sodium dodecyl sulfate taa total amino acids tnbs trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid who world health organisation corresponding author at teagasc research centre moorepark fermoy county cork ireland.e-mail addresses s. egerton s. culloty j. whooley c. stanton r.p.

protein and fat analyses were performed in duplicate.total and free amino acidsfree amino acid content was determined for the bwsph according to .

amino acids were quantified using a jeol jlc-500v amino acid analyzer jeol uk ltd. garden city herts uk fitted with a jeol na high performance cation exchange column.

for total amino acid content of bwsph proteins were hydrolyzed in 6n hcl at 110 degc for 23 h and the resulting hydrolysates analyzed as per free amino acid method.molecular weight distribution profilecalibrated with standard proteins dissolved at 1 mgml in distilled water and elutes were monitored at 214 nm.

these results suggest that hydrolysis with flavourzyme yielded a high proportion of shorter di- and tri- peptides and free amino acids.the key characteristics of protein quality for health are digestibility and amino acid composition.

from the molecular weight distribution of peptides in the four bwsph it is expected they would all have a fast digestion and ab- sorption rate.total and free amino acidsas outlined above for protein quality a key characteristic to con- sider is amino acid composition.

who  world health organisation.of the 20 standard proteinogenic amino acids nine of them are es- sential amino acids eaa which the body cannot produce and therefore need to be acquired in the diet.

the amino acids alanine aspartic acid serine methionine and glutamic acid have been associated with umami flavors   while threonine glycine serine proline and alanine are important sweet tasting amino acids  .

when considering the total amino acid composition of the bwsph umami is likely to be the strongest sensory flavor experienced .functional properties of bwsphprotein hydrolysate functionality is influenced by the amino acid composition and sequence as well as the size of peptides and the charge and distribution of charges of the molecules.

characterization of protein hydrolysates from blue whiting micromesistius poutassou and their application in beverage fortificationsian egerton sarah culloty jason whooley catherine stanton r. paul rossa school of microbiology university college cork irelandb school of biological earth and environmental sciences university college cork irelandc environmental research institute university college cork irelandd biomarine ingredients ireland ltd. killybegs co. donegal irelande teagasc research centre moorepark fermoy county cork irelandf apc microbiome institute university college cork irelanda r t i c l e i n f o keywordsfish protein hydrolysates health ingredients functional properties amino acidsanti-oxidanta b s t r a c t enzymatic hydrolysis of fish proteins has been employed as a principle method for converting under-utilised fish into valuable products for the pharmaceutical and health food industries.

furthermore fish proteins are highly digestible and have excellent es- sential amino acid eaa profiles that closely approximate human dietary requirements as set by the world health organisation who.

dh  was calculated using the following equationdh an2 an1 100npbwhere an1 and an2 are the amino nitrogen content of the protein substrate before and after hydrolysis respectively and npb is the ni- trogen content of the peptide bonds in the protein substrate taken as 123.3.proximate compositionproximate composition was determined for whole blue whiting and the bwsph.

the body absorbs dietary proteins in the form of single amino acids and di- and tripeptides.

di- and tripeptides are absorbed more rapidly than that of an equivalent amount of free amino acids .

