cst i was dominated by l. crispatus cst ii by l. gasseri while cst iii by l. iners.

we named this subgroup of cst iv as cst iv-bv.the remaining samples ascribed to cst iv showed lactobacillus depletion 60 and a mixture of aer- obic and anaerobic bacteria of the genera pseudomonas brevibacterium peptostreptococcus enterococcus streptococcus propionibacterium bifidobacterium shigella.

unfortunately the lack of additional clinical and behavioural information of the enrolled women did not allow the revealing of further correlations considering cst subgroups and in particular with cst iv-bv.however we observed a very low alpha diversity in the cst iv-bv in women of the persistence group indi-cating that only a limited number of bacterial genera are likely involved in viral persistence.

lactobacillus crispatus l. gasseri l. iners and l. jensenii dominate cst i ii iii and v respec- tively while depletion of lactobacilli identifies cst iv.

this sub- group of cst iv was named cst iv-av.figure 1. alpha diversity measures.

for each sample we indicated age range yellow  26-49 andblack  50-64 age range hpv status white hpv- green hpv clearance and red hpv persistence of all enrolled women and cst groups from i to iv.we observed an increased frequency of cst iv-bv 42.9 in persistence group compared either with clearance group 7.4 or with control group 11.7. these data fig.

furthermore we observed that two women from persistence group annotated as cst iii also showed high percentage 40 of anaerobic microbial communities typical of cst iv-bv.to rule out that these data are mainly determined by the high frequency of cst-iv in post-menopausal women we repeated the analysis considering only women in reproductive age exposed to hpv infection.

the results obtained confirmed that cst iv-bv is significantly correlated to viral persistence in this group of women odd ratio 7.08 at 95 confidence interval 1.31-38.33 p 0.014.alpha diversity analysis of the cst-iv subtypes showed lower species richness in cst iv-bv compared tocst iv-av fig.

we referred this type of cst as cst iv-bv since the same bacterial communities are frequently found in women with bacterial vaginosis bv.

however the adoption of the cst classification proposed by ravelallowed us to perform a risk asso- ciation analysis and despite the limited sample size we found a significant association between cst iv-bv and the persistence of hr-hpv infection which was not dependent on the reproductive age.

a cst iv subgroup with bacterial genera such as gardnerella prevotella megasphoera atopobium frequently associated with anaerobic consortium in bacterial vaginosis bv was present at baseline sampling in 43 of women in persistence group and only in 7.4 of women in clearance group.

based on these data we consider the cst iv-bv as a risk factor for hpv persistence and we propose atopobium spp and sialidase gene from g. vaginalis as microbial markers of hpv- persistence.cervical cancer cc is one of the most common cancer in women with an estimated incidence of 485 000 new cases and 236 000 deaths in 2013 causing 6.9 million disability-adjusted life-years dalys.

cst iv is also frequent in aerobic vaginitis av.

based on taxonomic distri- bution and accordingly with previous studies we identified four major groups of microbial communities csts which were designated as cst i ii iii iv according to ravel and mitra  .

cst iv was characterized by a paucity of lactobacillus spp.

