sixteen week old birds also had more clostridium xi corynebacterium facklamia and unclassified bacteria than 6 and 10 week old birds figures 3 4 table 3 and supplementary tables 1-3. estimates of beta diversity and dispersion suggested that the highly significant differences in diversity observed between age and location groups p  0.001 are not due to the variation in homogeneity between the groups p  0.1. across the entire dataset significant p  0.001 and p  0.01 moderate r  0.67 and r  0.49 correlations were seen between the presenceabundance of campylobacter with megamonas and lactobacillus at both genus and otu level.turkey microbiome functionpicrust data illustrated a range of potential functionalities supplementary figure 1. anova of picrust data showed significant differences 0.05 in 11 kegg pathways arginine and proline metabolism cell division energy metabolism glycerolipid metabolism methane metabolism n-glycan biosynthesis nitrogen metabolism oxidative phosphorylation pentose phosphate pathway and transcription machinery in the caecal microbiome when comparing 6 to 10 and 10 to 16 week old birds all least abundant within 10 week old birds except rna polymerase and transcription machinery which were at their lowest abundance in 6 week old birds and two of these pathways pentose phosphate and oxidative phosphorylation also differed between 6 and 16 week old birds pentose phosphate pathway was significantly higher in abundance within 6 week old birds compared with 16 week old birds and vice versa for gene abundances correlating to oxidative phosphorylation figure 5a.

different superscripts are shown for values that differ significantly from each other p  0.05.tract microbiome it is apparent that 10 week old birds show the most difference in their gi tract microbiome as a whole when compared to 6 and 16 week old birds figures 3 4 table 4 supplementary tables 1-3 and supplementary figure 3. ten-week-old turkeys commonly showed less diversity based on alpha diversity indices when compared with 6 and 16 week old birds supplementary figure 3. ten week old turkeys had less alistipes jeotgalicoccus parabacteroides phascolarctobacterium and streptococcus and more campylobacter and lactobacillus than 6 and 16 week old birds.

stamp was further used to produce principle coordinate analysis pca and extended error bar plots based on these analyses.resultssequencing datapost-quality control we obtained a total of 4485560 reads of sequencing averaging at 90267readssample table 2. average sequence length was 415 bp table 2.the turkey microbiome along the gastrointestinal tractthe pca plot based on otus showed that the microbiome of 10 week old birds was quite distinct to those of 6 and 16 week old birds irrespective of gi tract location figure 1. on a phyla level and irrespective of gi tracttable 2  sequencing information on average across sampling site and age.location and bird age firmicutes predominated on average 84.5 of all sequence reads figure 2 table 3. bacteroides actinobacteria and proteobacteria were the next predominating phyla after firmicutes with an average abundance of 9.30 4.11 and 1.48 of total reads respectively figure 2 table 3. on a phylum level the main differences seen were that bacteroidetes were more abundant in the caeca and firmicutesless abundant compared with other gi tract locations figure 2 table 3. in terms of age bacteroidetes was lower in the gi tract of 10 week old birds whilst firmictues were higher compared with turkeys of 6 and 16 weeks of age figure 2 table 3. significant interactions between age and gi tract locations were also evident for the bacteroidetes and firmicutes table 3.on a familygenus level and irrespective of gi tract location and bird age lactobacillus streptococcus and clostridium xi predominated 38.2 28.1 and 13.0 respectively figures 3 4 table 4 and supplementary tables 1-3. in terms of gi tract location bacterial diversity in the small and large intestines were generally similar to each other in birds of all ages.

alpha diversity indices showed that the caecal microbiome of 6 and 16 week old birds were higher in diversity compared with 10 week old birds.sequencing the rrna gene of a gut microbiome is relatively simple and cost-effective nonetheless understanding the function of the microbiome is key for understanding interrelationships with the host.

16s rdna concentrations are most abundant within the caeca of 10 week old birds compared with 6 and 16 week old birds table 6. understanding the turkey microbiome in various locations of the gi tract and over turkey maturation is crucial in order to understand production efficiency andalso the pathogen load and risk with respect to human consumption.on a phylum level firmicutes bacteroidetes actinobacteria and proteobacteria dominated within the microbiomes of the turkeys across age and gi tract location.

we also found an increase in lactobacillus in the si in 10 week old birds compared with 6 week old birds but numbers decreased within 16 week old birds.

understanding the microbial ecology of the turkey gastrointestinal tract is essential in terms of understanding production efficiency and in order to develop novel strategies for targeting campylobacter spp.keywords turkey 16s rdna microbiome campylobacter gastrointestinal tract small intestine caecum large intestineintroductionpoultry meat represents the main source of protein for human nutrition with consumption per capita being nearly twice that of red meat foley et al.

although this hypothesis needs testing.these data highlight the complex interactions of the microbiome and the need to study the whole microbiome and not the pathogens themselves in isolation.in summary in this study we show that the turkey gut microbiome across the gi tract changes in terms of taxonomy diversity and function as the turkey matures with the main changes occuring in the caeca.

ten week old turkeys generally had less alistipes jeotgalicoccus parabacteroides phascolarctobacterium and streptococcus and more campylobacter and lactobacillus than 6 and 16 week old birds.

when assessing the effect of age 10 week old birds generally showed the greatest difference in their gi tract microbiome as a whole when compared to 6 and 16 week old birds.

2015. when assessing the effect of age on average actinobacteria bacteroidetes and proteobacteria were more abundant in the gi tracts of 16 week old turkeys whilst firmicutes were higher in abundance in the gi tract of 6 and 10 week birds compared with 16 week birds.on a genusfamily level lactobacillus streptococcus and clostridiumxi dominated irrespective of gut location and turkey age.

16s rdna concentrations were also higher in the caecum with the highest concentrations found in the caeca of 10 week old birds table 5.discussionin this study we characterized the microbiome across the gi tract of maturing turkeys with a specific focus on campylobacter spp.

the main observations from the picrust function data were that 10 week old birds differed significantly in the function of their caecal microbiome compared to birds of 6 and 16 weeks of age.in this study we also show using next generation sequencing and qpcr that the abundance of thermophilic campylobacter spp.

the caecal bacterial diversity was highest in birds of all ages figures 3 4 table 4 supplementary figure 3 and supplementary tables 1-3. alistipes anaerovorax bacteroides barnesiella blautia butyricicoccus campylobacter clostridium xivb hallela paraprevotella phascolarctobacterium pseudoflavonifractor roseburia ruminococcus slackia subdoligranulum syntrophococcus and unclassified bacteriawere significantly p  0.05 higher in the caecum compared to the small and large intestine whereas streptococcus were significantly p  0.05 lower in abundance figures 3 4 table 4 and supplementary tables 1-3. significant interactions between turkey age and gi tract location was seen for alistepes anaerovorax bacteroides barnsiella howardella megaspahaera olsenella parabacteroides pelomonas ruminococcus slackia subdoligranulum syntrophococcus and unknown bacterial genera was seen table 4. the turkey cloacal microbiota showed most similarity to the microbiota within the large intestine which is perhaps understandable given their close proximity figures 3 4 table 4 and supplementary tables 1-3. when considering the effect of turkey development on the gitable 3  bacterial phyla present within the small intestine caecum large intestine and cloaca of mature turkeys.numbers displayed are percentage sequencing reads pertaining to that genus as a proportion of the total number of reads.

in the large intestine the d-arginine and the d- ornithine pathway were significantly different in abundance when comparing 6 to 10 and 10 to 16 week old birds highest abundances found in 10 week old birds figure 5b.

