another series of sea cucumber glycosides with either an 18 16-lactone or no lactone aglycones are known as nonholostane avilov and others 1994. the monosaccharide constituents of sea cucumber saponins scss include d-xylose d-quinovose d- glucose d-3-o-methylglucose and d-3-o-methylxylose kalinin 2000. holothurin a ha and echinoside a ea are the 2 most abundant saponins in sea cucumber figure 1. ha and ea are holostanes with 4 monosaccharides and the chemical structures of the 2 saponins contain a sulfate group attached to c-4 of the first xylose residue.scss have been shown to exhibit various biological activi- ties including antimetastatic zhao and others 2011 hemolytic silchenko and others 2015 antitumor yu and others 2015b and cytostatic activities zou and others 2005. recent studies demon- strated that scss significantly inhibit the absorption of dietary fat and reduce obesity as well as decrease serum glucose and insulin levels and adipose accumulation hu and others 2010 hu and others 2012 wang and others 2014b.

direct inquiries to author yong xue and yuming wang e-mail xueyongouc.edu.cn.that scss can be absorbed in the body after oral administration in rats song and others 2016 li and others 2016 and the pharma- cokinetics and biodistribution of scss were investigated xiong and others 2014. the metabolism of scss in the gut and theqc 2017 institute of food technologistsqrdoi 10.11111750-3841.13759vol.

deglycosylation is a common reaction of many glycoside bio-active constituents by intestinal microflora such as ginsenoside kim and others 2008 marein and flavanomarein han and others 2016. in other re- searches of metabolism of saponins glycosylation wang and oth- ers 2014a dehydration wan and others 2013 and oxidation liu and others 2009 could be observed but these phenomenon were not found in this work.because there is no standard substance for m1-m6 we semi- quantitatively analyzed the metabolites using the standard curves of their parent compounds ha and ea.

in vitro biotransformation was under the 37 degc for 48 h. two different control experiments were conducted 1 incubations of the intestinal microflora in medium but lacking the scss to monitor metabolites arising from basal metabolism 2 incubations of the scss in medium but without intestinal microflora to monitor changes due to the non-microbial chemical transformation of precursor compounds of the substrate.the biotransformation mixtures were then prepared according to the method described in the literature wan and others 2013 with some modifications.

a previous study reported that ginsenosides-hydrolyzing enzymes are b-glucosidase b-xylosidase a-l-arabinofurano-sidase and a- l-rhamnosidase as the sugars attached to ginsenosides are glu- cose l-arabinopyranoside l-arabinofuranoside d-xylose andorfigure 2-the total ion chromatograms tic of control 1 using intestinal microflora and medium a control 2 using scs extract and medium b scs extract after biotransformed by intestinal microflora and medium c by hplc-hrms in negative ion mode.figure 3-msms spectrum of metabolites tested by hplc-hrms.figure 4-elucidations for metabolic pathways of sea cucumber saponins ea and ha by intestinal microflora.table 2-the concentration of ha and ea and their metabolites in urine and feces.l-rhamnose park and others 2010. we predicted that different types of glycosidases act during different steps of deglycosylation reactions of scss.

become a member and save up to 40 on registration.learn more at iftevent.orgcharacterization of metabolic pathways and absorption of sea cucumber saponins holothurin a and echinoside a in vitro and in vivoshanshan song lingyu zhang jian cao gao xiang peixu cong ping dong zhaojie li changhu xue yong xue and yuming wangintroductionsea cucumbers which belong to the holothuroidea class echinodermata phylum are a traditional marine resource for medicines since ancient times in asian countries such as china and japan dong and others 2008. currently it is one of the most important cultured aquatic species in china and many other asian countries wang and others 2012. sea cucumber has now gained considerable attention because of its multiple bioactive compositions.triterpene saponins are the most important secondary metabo- lites and bioactive components in sea cucumbers zou and others 2003. most identified sea cucumber glycosides contain lanos- tane aglycones with an 1820-lactone referred to as holostane.

the metabolism in the gut plays a pivotal role in the effi- cacy of the active food constituents ou and gu 2014 for exam- ple ginsenoside compound k transformed from ginsenoside rb1 rb2 and rc by intestinal microflora was reported to have good anti-inflammatory and antitumor effects wang and others 2011 li and others 2014b.

ha and ea were decreased after 2 h but increased to a relatively high level at 6 h. through enterohepatic circula- tion the secretion of ha and ea with bile acid into the intestine may explain these results zhang and others 2007 jin and others 2015. after 6 h the contents of m1-m3 in the intestinal tract were decreased and m4-m6 were decreased after 4 h.rat serum were collected and detected by hplc-ms after oral administration of scs extracts.

finally the obtained semifluid was lyophilized to obtain a powder state of scs extracts.in vitro metabolism of scss by mice intestinal microfloramouse intestinal microflora preparation.

the ms andmsms spectra of ha and ea tested by the hplc-hrms are shown in figure 1.metabolite identification and metabolic characteristic elucidation of scssto understand the role of intestinal microflora on the metabolism of scss in the intestinal tract in vitro experiments were carried out.

according to nomenclature rules for scss m3 and m6 were tentatively assigned as holothurin c and echinoside c. the fragment ions which eliminated 1 h2o m-h- h2o- from all metabolites were observed in the msms spectra figure 3. the metabolic pathways of ea and ha by intestinal microflora are shown in figure 4. in summary stepwise degly- cosylation was the major metabolic pathway of ha and ea inthe in vitro intestinal microflora transformation.

thus the contents of secondary scss were attributed to the enzymatic activity of the intestinal microbiota.metabolites of scss detected after oral administrationcompared with the blank samples 6 metabolites were observed based on their tics and eics.

u.s.a.. all other reagents used were of the highest grade available.scss preparationsaponins were isolated from the sea cucumber pearsonothuria graeffei using the procedure described by hu and others hu and others 2010. air-dried body walls of p. graeffei were grinded into powder and extracted 4 times with refluxing ethanol 15 wv.

it is well- known that parent compounds and their metabolites always show similar chemical structures li and others 2014a and fragmen- tation patterns wang and others 2014a.

this agrees with the results of a previous study of ginsenosides by niu and others niu and others 2012.rat urine and feces were collected from 0 to 12 h following oral administration.

