a-WWTP river after waste water treatment plant b-WWTP river before waste water treatment plant HWW hospital waste water WWTP activated sludge of waste water treatment plant SW alpine lake.recipient were also inoculated at a 21 and 41 ratio in 5 mL of LB broth and incubated for 24 h at 30 oC 100 mL of the liquid suspension obtained were spread on selective double-selective or non-selective LB agar plates and incubated at 37 oC or30 oC for 24 h. Transconjugated bacteria were plated foranother 24 h at 37 oC or 30 oC on double-selective LB agar.ResultsCharacterization of antimicrobial resistance determinants in Aeromonas spp.We recovered 231 Aeromonas strains most of them belonging to A. hydrophila and A. media species.

Southern blot analysis revealed that integrons were located on a plasmid in 12 strains belonging to A. media 5 strains A. hydrophila 3 strains Aeromonas sobria 2 strains and Aeromonas caviae 2 strains.

However we could not detect common mobile structures in these two bacterial populations and we were able to transfer antibiotic resistance through conjugation only with four Aeromonas strains.These finding therefore question the notion that coliform contamination may act as a vector for gene transfer to the naturally aquatic Aeromonas spp.

Original ArticleCharacterization of genetic determinants involved in antibiotic resistance in Aeromonas spp.

We recovered 231 Aeromonas and 250 fecal coliforms from water samplings with different degrees of pollution hospital sewage activated sludge of a wastewater treatment plant river water before and after treatment and water from an alpine lake.

Sixteen Aeromonas spp.

and 22 fecal coliforms carried intI coding for the site-specific integrase of class 1 integrons while 22 Aeromonas spp.

Integrons and transposons were mainly located on mobilizable plasmids.Our results did not detect common mobile structures in the two populations and therefore relativize the role played by Aeromonas spp.

Aeromonas are Gram-negative oxidase-positive bacilli and are ubiquitous in aquatic environments where they are exposed to the actions of micropollutants such as residual antibiotic compounds that may possibly be present .

In water Aeromonas spp.

