Characterization of Microsatellites in Pseudogymnoascus destructans for White-nose Syndrome Genetic AnalysisAuthors Kevin P. Drees Katy L. Parise Stephanie M. Rivas Lindsey L. Felton Sebastien J. Puechmaille Paul Keim and Jeffrey T. FosterSource Journal of Wildlife Diseases 534869-874.

869-874c Wildlife Disease Association 2017Characterization of Microsatellites in Pseudogymnoascus destructansfor White-nose Syndrome Genetic AnalysisKevin P. Drees13 Katy L. Parise13 Stephanie M. Rivas1 Lindsey L. Felton1 Se'bastien J. Puechmaille2 Paul Keim1 and Jeffrey T. Foster134 1The Pathogen  Microbiome Institute Northern Arizona University PO Box 4073 Flagstaff Arizona 86011 USA 2Institute of Zoology University of Greifswald Friedrich-Ludwig-Jahn-Str.

We developed a set of genetic markers to better differentiate P. destructans isolates.

We designed and successfully character- ized these 23 microsatellite markers of P. destructans for use in disease ecology and epidemiology research.

We validated these loci with DNA extracted from a collection of P. destructans isolates from the US and Canada as well as from Europe the likely introduction source based on currently available data.

2015 of P. destructans or track the spread of the fungus in the North American epizootic zone are absent.

We therefore sought to develop a set of microsatellite markers with sufficient poly- morphisms to genotype samples for epidemi- ological studies of WNS.Microsatellites 2-6 base pairs bp in length were identified in the whole genome se- quence of the type isolate P. destructans ATCC MYA-4855 GenBank accession nos.

We tested the msatcommander output of 127 primer pairs for microsatellites with length polymorphisms among a panel of haploid DNA samples extracted from pure P. destructans colonies from culture medium inoculated with bat skin swabs from throughout the North American WNS epizootic zone and from Europe Sup- plementary Table S1.

The reference sequences belonging to P. destructans 20631-21 were obtained from National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI GenBank and used to identify microsatellite loci and to design PCR primers to amplify these loci.

The number of repeat motif copies base pairs bp in the reference sequences are listed as are the size ranges bp of the PCR products obtained from analyzing a panel of P. destructans samples obtained from North America and Europe Supplementary Table S1.

