We extracted the SILAC ion chromatographic traces of these proteins and all of them showed clear UV-dependent and BA- competitive labeling by the probe c. Collectively these known examples of BA-interacting proteins in our profiling data indicate that the photoaffinity BA probes arecapturing physiologically relevant protein-BA interactions in living cells.Interestingly we also identified a set of BA-proteininteractions which are sensitive to excessive BA competition but show UV-independent probe labeling group IV in c. This suggests that covalent interactions between BA and proteins may exist in cells and will be the subject of further investigation.Considering the structural similarity between BA and cholesterol we also compared the BA-interacting proteins identified in our study with those cholesterol-interacting proteins identified in a previous study performed by the Cravatt group.

Science 1999 284 1362-1365.Kawamata Y. Fujii R. Hosoya M. Harada M. Yoshida H. Miwa M. Fukusumi S. Habata Y. Itoh T. Shintani Y. Hinuma S. Fujisawa Y. Fujino M. A G Protein-Coupled Receptor Responsive to Bile Acids.

Our chemo-proteomic profiling identified several direct interactions between BA and key proteins that are known to be involved with the development and pathogenesis of NAFLD including sterol regulatory element binding transcription factor 1 SREBF1transforming growth factor beta 1 TGFB1 and multiple subunits of NADHubiquinone oxidoreductase and cytochrome c oxidase.Further investigation on how BA binds to and affects functions of these proteins as well as those in lipid metabolism pathways may provide novel links between BA metabolism and NAFLD.BAs have been known to interplay with microbiota in the intestine to establish a healthy gut environment for the host.

many of which have been reported to be regulated by BA in a receptor-dependentmanner.-It is also satisfying to see that the bile secretionpathway is enriched as several known BA transporters are captured by our BA probes in the profiling.The top functionally enriched pathway protein processing in ER contains 44 BA-interacting proteins.

We performed the gene ontology GO analysis on these BA interacting proteins regarding their subcellular distributions a.Major subcellular organelles enriched with BA target proteins are endoplasmic reticulum 23 mitochond- rion 21 Golgi apparatus 11 nuclear envelope 5 cell surface 5 and peroxisome 4.

Immunoblotting of the enriched proteins showed that all of them can be captured by the P2 probe in a UV- dependent manner and these BA-protein interactions can be competed by excess native BA molecules by at least 1.69-fold.CONCLUSIONHere we designed and efficiently prepared a number of structurally diverse clickable and photoreactive BA probes based on the cholic acid scaffold and applied them in systematically mapping BA-interacting proteins directly in living cells.

2016 11 2908- 2914.Schulz S. Schmitt S. Wimmer R. Aichler M. Eisenhofer S. Lichtmannegger J. Eberhagen C. Artmann R. Tookos F. Walch A.

2016 156 47-56.Richter S. Richter J. P. Mehta S. Gribble A. Sutherlandsmith A. J. Stowell K. M. Print C. G. Ronimus R. S. Wilson W. R. Expression and Role in Glycolysis of Human ADP- Dependent Glucokinase.

2012 506 322-326.Ramalho R. M. Borralho P. M. Castro R. E. Sola S. Steer C. J. Rodrigues C. M. P. Tauroursodeoxycholic Acid Modulates p53- Mediated Apoptosis in Alzheimer's Disease Mutant Neuroblastoma Cells.

2012 364 131-145.Kanehisa M. Goto S. Furumichi M. Tanabe M. HirakawaM.

