3. for example both in utero and early life adversity have been shown to affect dna methylation in some cases affect- ing multiple generations 2 3. recently fumarate has also been shown to drive the epithelial to mesenchymal transi- tion a key step in tumor invasion and metastasis by in- hibiting tet ten eleven translocation-mediated demethyl- ation of an anti-metastatic mirna cluster 32. thus similar to histone methylation both one-carbon and central metabolites can chemically signal to dna methylation machinery.histone ptm states regulation by gut microbial metabolitesthe gut microbiota produces a large number and variety of bioactive metabolites 6 7 including both demonstrated and putative regulators of host chromatin as follows scfas vita- mins bile acids and compounds derived from metabolism of dietary components including polyphenols isothiocyanates and choline table 1. gut microbial community composition affects metabolic outcomes for example the number of genes within a gut microbiome richness correlates with metabolic biomarkers 40. furthermore dietary intervention has been shown to improve low gene richness and subsequent clinical phenotypes 41. in a small human cohort study consumption of either an entirely animal- or plant-based diet resulted in alterations in microbial diversity within 1 day of consumption of the altered diet and consumption of the animal-based diet increased the abundance and activity of bilophila wadsworthia 42 which has been associated with inflammatory bowel dis- ease 43. dietary additives common to westernized human diets cause gut dysbiosis and contribute to metabolic syndrome44 and gut inflammation 45. although host genetics have been shown to play a role in shaping gut microbial community composition and metabolism the effects of diet and environ- ment have been shown to exert broader effects 46 47.although the gut microbiota is necessary for proper immune system and brain development 48 49 several studies have shown that it contributes to a number of etiologies including metabolic syndrome and diabetes mellitus 50 51 obesity and adiposity 52 53 cardiovascular disease 54 55 non-alcoholic fatty liver disease 56 inflammatory bowel disease 57 and colon cancer 58. furthermore changes in microbiota compo- sition caused by antibiotic exposure early in life affect the gut microbiota and elicit long-lasting effects on host metabolic out- comes 59 60. notably the gut microbiota is also associated with therapeutic effects 61 62.there are a number of interesting and putative connections between microbial-host metabolic axes and chromatin regula- tory events however most of these studies have provided only indirect evidence or used cell culture-based models rather than whole organisms.

chemical signaling between gut microbiota and host chromatin what is your gut really sayingpublished papers in press april 7 2017 doi 10.1074jbc.r116.761577kimberly a. krautkramer1 federico e. reyss2 and john m. denu3from the wisconsin institute for discovery morgridge institute for research and the department of biomolecular chemistry university of wisconsin school of medicine and public health madison wisconsin 53715 and the ssdepartment of bacteriology university of wisconsin madison wisconsin 53706edited by ruma banerjeemammals and their gut microbial communities share exten- sive and tightly coordinated co-metabolism of dietary sub- strates.

vitamins b2 b6 b9 and b12 all play roles in sam availability and thus may affect histone and dna methylation whereas vitamins b3 and b5 may affect histone acetylation via sirtuin inhibition or hat activation respectively table 1. other dietary nutrients including cho- line betaine and polyunsaturated fatty acids pufas may play roles in histone methylation table 1.bile acids are regulators of gut microbial community compo- sition and are also regulated by the gut microbiota via microbial production of secondary bile acids that mediate both bile acid pool size and composition 72. the human secondary bile acid ursodeoxycholic acid a primary bile acid in mice also induces expression of hdac6 and decreases global histone acetylation in cultured cells table 1. finally two classes of phytonutrients that are metabolized by the gut microbiota to bioactive com- pounds have putative roles in host epigenetic regulation.

9 2423-2434daniel h. gholami a. m. berry d. desmarchelier c. hahne h. loh g. mondot s. lepage p. rothballer m. walker a. bohm c. wen- ning m. wagner m. blaut m. schmitt-kopplin p. kuster b. haller d. and clavel t. 2014 high-fat diet alters gut microbiota physiology in mice.

e-mail 4 the abbreviations used are ptm post-translational modification hat his- tone acetyltransferase hdac histone deacetylase hmt histone methyl- transferase sam s-adenosylmethionine sah s-adenosylhomocysteine lsd lysine-specific demethylase a-kg a-ketoglutarate dnmt dna methyltransferase mac microbial accessible carbohydrate scfa short- chain fatty acid pdc pyruvate dehydrogenase complex oaa oxaloace- tate acly atp citrate lyase tca tricarboxylic acid.example butyrate a major product of gut microbial fermenta- tion of undigested complex carbohydrates has been known as a histone deacetylase inhibitor since the 1970s 8. the relation- ship between scfas and a number of other microbial metabo- lites with host chromatin is detailed in table 1. in light of these relationships the gut microbiota may be a key regulator of host metabolo-epigenetic events.

although these effects were not linked to chromatin states this study presents the intriguing possibility that perhaps transgenera- tional inheritance in response to nutrient availability is mediated via gut microbiota-host epigenetic responses.a large number of microbial metabolites have been mea- sured in host circulation and other tissue compartments largely via nmr and mass spectrometry 6 7 67. these studies high- light the extensive co-metabolism that occurs between the gut microbiota and host.

thus there remains enormous potential for discovery which links commonly available foodstuffs to epi- genetic programming in health and disease.in addition to butyrate other organic acids c1 c2 c3 andc5 and branched scfas have been demonstrated to increase histone acetylation inhibit hdacs or increase expression ofolized by the gut microbiota to form bioactive compounds that may regulate host chromatin at the level of methylation and acetylation of histones as well as dna methylation table 1.although gut microbial derivatives of dietary isothiocyanates and polyphenols are potential regulators of host epigenetic machinery their bioavailability is somewhat limited and thus future studies will need to determine the relevance of these metabolites in this setting.

plos one 8 e64535-13chemical signaling between gut microbiota and host chromatin what is your gut really sayingkimberly a. krautkramer federico e. rey and john m. denuj.

nature 490 55- 60caesar r. tremaroli v. kovatcheva-datchary p. cani p. d. and back- hed f. 2015 crosstalk between gut microbiota and dietary lipids aggra- vates wat inflammation through tlr signaling.

nature 467 963-966sonnenburg e. d. smits s. a. tikhonov m. higginbottom s. k. win- green n. s. and sonnenburg j. l. 2016 diet-induced extinctions in the gut microbiota compound over generations.

cell 64 982-992ridlon j. m. kang d. j. hylemon p. b. and bajaj j. s. 2014 bile acids and the gut microbiome.

carcinogenesis 31 489 - 495druart c. neyrinck a. m. vlaeminck b. fievez v. cani p. d. and delzenne n. m. 2014 role of the lower and upper intestine in the production and absorption of gut microbiota-derived pufa metabolites.

d. barrera l. o. van calcar s. qu c. ching k. a. wang w. weng z. green r. d. crawford g. e. and ren b.

u.s.a. 111 10209 -10214cambronne x. a. stewart m. l. kim d. jones-brunette a. m. mor- gan r. k. farrens d. l. cohen m. s. and goodman r. h. 2016 biosensor reveals multiple sources for mitochondrial nad.

66 9009 -9016stadler m. b. murr r. burger l. ivanek r. lienert f. scholer a. van nimwegen e. wirbelauer c. oakeley e. j. gaidatzis d. tiwari v. k. and schubeler d. 2011 dna-binding factors shape the mouse methy- lome at distal regulatory regions.

