the analyzed dietary fiber preparations bf ebf and dbs were added at the same dose 6. the preparations contributed dietary fiber 4 and a small amount of protein 1. the experimental diets contained 1 cellulose as an additional source of fiber whereas the control diet contained 5 cellulose.

the concentrations of non-hdlbound ellagicacid mgg-3.42 -0.54a1.01 -0.09b2.80 -0.75a3.42 -0.59a0.002cholesterol were lower in the ebf group and higher in the bpaexperimental diet c control bf diet with blackberry fiber ebf diet with extracted blackberry fiber bp diet with blackberry polyphenols dbs diet with defatted blackberry seeds.

the diets were modifications of a diet recommended by the american institute ofnutritionfor laboratory rodents and differed only in that maize starch was replaced with blackberry fiber bf blackberry extracted fiber ebf defatted blackberry seeds dbs or blackberry polyphenols bp.

prior to anesthesia with sodium pentobarbitaltable 1. composition of experimental dietsshimadzu gc-2010 kyoto japan with a capillary column sge bp21 30 m x 0.53 mm sge europe ltd. milton keynes uk asaexperimental diet c control bf diet with blackberry fiber ebf diet with extracted blackberry fiber bp diet with blackberry polyphenols dbs diet with defatted blackberry seeds.50 mgkg body weight animals were deprived of feed overnight.

the concentration of ellagitannin metabolites in the cecal digesta was determined as previously described.first 0.5-1 g of frozen cecal digesta was mixedtable 2. chemical composition  of blackberry preparationsabf blackberry fiber ebf extracted blackberry fiber bp blackberry polyphenols dbs diet with defatted blackberry seeds.

see for identification corresponding to peak numbers.table 4. body weight and parameters of development of distal colon after 4 weeks of experimental feedingaexperimental diet c control bf diet with blackberry fiber ebf diet with extracted blackberry fiber bp diet with blackberry polyphenols dbs diet with defatted blackberry seeds.

in the control group ellagictable 5. bacterial enzymes' activity and short-chain fatty acid scfa in the cecum of ratsaexperimental diet c control bf diet with blackberry fiber ebf diet with extracted blackberry fiber bp diet with blackberry polyphenols dbs diet with defatted blackberry seeds.

just as in the case of raspberries blackberry press cake is mostly composed of seedsand so bf was rich in protein and fattable 7. blood lipid profile after 4 weeks of experimental feedingaexperimental diet c control bf diet with blackberry fiber ebf diet with extracted blackberry fiber bp diet with blackberry polyphenols dbs diet with defatted blackberry seeds.

in the reported experiment the various diets had a similar content of fiber from 4.6 in the bf group 4.9 in the ebf group to 5.4 in the dbs group with its main component being insoluble dietary fiber.

one of the effects of increased dietary fiber levels may be higher water content of digesta.however this was not the case in the present experiment and in the ebf and dbs groups the water content of cecal digesta declined which may indicate decreased water-holding capacity of berry fiber as compared to cellulose 5 of the control group diet.

dietary fiber and polyphenolic preparations from the native press cake a dietary fiber preparation obtained after polyphenolic extraction a polyphenolic extract and a preparation obtained from seeds defatted by supercritical co2 treatment.

chemical composition was determined using aoac methodsdry matter and ash 940.26 protein 920.152 crude fat 930.09 total dietary fiber 985.29 and insoluble dietary fiber 991.42.polyphenol content.

other studies have demonstrated that insoluble dietary fiber accelerates gut peristalsiswhereas soluble dietary fiber increases viscosity and delays transit time of the digesta.

6 h to 95 solid content.extracted blackberry fiber ebf.

the main component of bf ebf and dbs was the polysaccharide fraction determined as total dietary fiber .

