Because viruses mainly RSV HRV and influenza seem to play an important role in severe CAP they might even play a more important role in non-severe CAP.

ReviewChildhood community-acquired pneumonia A review of etiology- and antimicrobial treatment studiesGerdien A. Tramper-Stranders Department of Pediatrics Franciscus Gasthuis  Vlietland Rotterdam The NetherlandsDepartment of Neonatology Erasmus University Medical Center-Sophia Children's Hospital Rotterdam The Netherlandsa r t i c l e i n f o Article historyKeywords Pneumonia Children Epidemiology EtiologyAntimicrobial treatmenta b s t r a c t Community acquired pneumonia CAP is a leading cause of childhood morbidity worldwide.

Because of the rising antimicrobial resistance rates and adverse effects of childhood antibiotic use on the developing microbiome rational prescribing of antibiotics for CAP is important.

This review summarizes and criti- cally reflects on the available evidence for the epidemiology etiology and antimicrobial management of childhood CAP.

Larger prospective studies on antimicrobial management derive mostly from low- or middle-income countries as they have the highest burden of CAP.

For children with more severe CAP with fever a five-day oral amoxicillin course would be the first choice therapy and dosage will depend on local resistance rates.

For cases with CAP requiring hospitalization several studies have shown that narrow-spectrum IV beta- lactam therapy is as effective as a broad-spectrum cephalosporin therapy.

Especially the contribution of HiB CAP is falling quite rapidly because of widespread vaccination in the majority of LMIC.

However the HIV-epidemic has increased the incidence of childhood CAP again .Because of the large burden of pneumonia on child health and mortality the optimal management of pneumonia is a 'hot topic'.

This review will describe the available evidence for the etiology and manage- ment of CAP in otherwise healthy children beyond the neonatal period.Etiology of community acquired pneumonia in childhoodMethodsMicrobiological methods to study the etiology are culture poly- merase chain reaction PCR direct immunofluorescence antigen tests and paired serology.

