in both cohorts there were also over- weight children 14 dutch and 14 finnish children with bmi 17 and underweight children 10 dutch and 7 finnish children with bmi 14.the background variables country birth weight breastfeeding duration and total lifetime antibiotic use explained 11 of the bmi variation.

3 association between genus-like bacterial groups with infant growth from birth to 6 months and bmi at 5-6 years in the total cohort separately in the dutch nl and finnish fin children and separately in children with minimal lifetime antibiotic use minab 0-1 courses and those with several antibiotic courses maxab 1 coursesconsistently associated with later bmi in both the dutch and the finnish cohort.children with a low relative abundance of actinobac- teria and a high relative abundance of firmicutes at the age of 3 months were likely to attain a high bmi at the age of 5-6 years but only if they received several courses of antibiotics.

in children with low lifetime antibiotic use the early microbiota composition may be associated with the child's suscepti- bility to diet-induced overweight potentially involving leptin sensitivity or adipocyte programming in chil- dren with frequent lifetime antibiotic use bmi is likely to be influenced not only by diet but also by the antibi- otics the early-life microbiome may thus affect the child's susceptibility to both diet-induced and antibiotic- associated weight gain.to test these hypotheses we monitored a total of 162 children in the netherlands and finland from birth to 5-6 years of age and analysed their total faecal micro- biota at the age of 3 months using a culture- independent phylogenetic microarray.

early growth was positively associated with the relative abundance of firmicutes at 3 months correlation 0.21 0.03-0.39 p  0.02 particularly clostridia 0.20 0.01-0.37 p  0.04 and species related to strepto- coccus bovis 0.2 0.02-0.39 p  0.03.discussionwe compared the early-life faecal microbiota compo- sitions in two cohorts of healthy infants and identi- fied bacterial taxa whose relative abundances weretable 2 correlations 95 confidence interval between bacterial taxa and bmi adjusted for birth weight and duration of breastfeeding in the total cohort n  162 in children with minimal antibiotic exposure 0-1 lifetime courses n  50 and children with several antibiotic courses n  112.fig.

fxr and tgr5 signalling by bile acids tlr4 signalling by lipopolysaccharide lps angptl4fiaf signalling  and gut hormone and adipose tissue regulation by short-chain fatty acid scfa production it is thus becoming increasingly evident that the early-life microbiota are involved in long-lasting metabolic programming.we have previously discovered that the early-life use of macrolide antibiotics which strongly modifies the microbiota is a prerequisite for later antibiotic- associated increase in bmi in healthy finnish children we have also reported recently that long duration of breastfeeding is negatively associated with bmi at preschool age but only among children who did not re- ceive antibiotics before weaning i.e.

in addition the models were run separately for children with minimal antibiotic exposure 0-1 lifetime courses and those with several antibiotic courses to see if the as- sociations were present regardless of antibiotic exposure.

the only significant contributor to bmi was birth weight p  0.0005. anti- biotic use had a nearly significant positive association with bmi p  0.06.the relative abundance of the phylum actinobacteria was negatively and the relative abundance of the phylum firmicutes was positively associated with bmi table among actinobacteria the most abundant genus bifido- bacterium--particularly the species b. infantis b. pseu- docatenulatum b. longum and b. thermophilum--was negatively associated with bmi table fig.

p  0.00001. bifidobacterium and streptococcus were thedominant taxa in the intestinal microbiota of both co- horts with no significant cohort difference in relative abundance p  0.09 and p  0.44 respectively.association between early-life microbiota composition and bmi at the age of 5-6 yearsbmi distributions did not markedly differ between the cohorts see additional file and most children were normal weight bmi 14-17 according to the cdc growth charts.

however these associations varied by antibiotic exposure and were not present in the children with min- imal antibiotic exposure table fig.

among the children with minimal antibiotic exposure there was a strong positive association between bmi and bacteroi- detes particularly species related to bacteroides ovatus bacteroides vulgatus and prevotella tannerae table fig.

conversely the phylum firmicutes showed a sig- nificant positive association with bmi only among the children with a history of several antibiotic courses table fig.

antibiotic use is associated with an increase in lps-producing gram-negative bac- teria and frequent antibiotic use may thus involve recurrent lps surges similar to a high-fat diet it is possible that the host's metabolic responses to this de- pend on early-life microbial exposure.two finnish studies based on another birth cohort have noted a negative association between the relative abun- dance of bifidobacterium in infancy and later bmi .

b. pseudocatenulatum has been shown to cause changes in the expression of hepatic genes in- volved in lipid metabolism in previous dutch studies bacteroides species and particularly b. fragilis have been associated with higher bmi outcomes in later childhood we found the same association but only in the children with minimal antibiotic exposure.

dutch children generally use antibi- otics less frequently than finnish children which may explain why this association has previously not been ob- served in finnish children.

microbiome 2017 526doi 10.1186s40168-017-0245-ychildhood bmi in relation to microbiota in infancy and lifetime antibiotic usek.

