the purity of the isolated c-ia was assessed by hplc-dad-esi-ms. the amount of c-ia was estimated from the lc-uv signal at 320 nm based on the assumption that c-ia has a similar molecular extinction due to the fact that ca is the only uv-active part of the molecule c-ia.

studies on the bioavailability of c-qa compared to ca showed that the absorption of the metabolites of c-qa mainly takes place in the colon after c-qa is degraded by the microbiota whereas ca is to some extent already absorbed in the upper intestinal tract  .

3. metabolite formation of chlorogenic acid c-qa for three independent in vitro fermentations with different donors a b and c. each data point represents the mean and standard deviation of triplicates.increased within the first 7 h c. between 7 h and 48 h a further slight increase in the formation of 3-hppa was detected while the concentration of 34-dhppa fell to a certain extent and remained es- sentially constant.as already presented for the fermentation of c-qa the concentra- tion of 3-ppa in the fermentations with c-ia was nearly constant data not shown.

for fermentation b the same metabolites at the same time points were also present in the fermentation of c-qa and c-ia but the concentration of 3-hppa was already higher at 7 h in the c-qa fermentation than the concentration of 34-dhppa.

with regard to amaranth it is of interest to determine whether or not the nutritive potential of amaranth arises from those exotic phenolic acid esters such as c-ia andor their biotransformation.the aim of the present study was to determine the in vitro de- gradation of c-ia and c-qa with fecal microbiota from three different donors to investigate the biotransformation by the human gut micro- biota.

4. metabolite formation of caffeoylisocitric acid c-ia for three independent in vitro fermentations with different donors a b and c. each data point represents the mean and standard deviation of triplicates.the 'control samples ii' data not shown.in vitro fermentation of caffeoylisocitric acidas well as in the fermentations with c-qa the fecal microbiota from of all three donors was able to metabolize c-ia.

the in vitro fer- mentation of c-ia with the fecal slurry from donor c showed very si- milar behavior in metabolite formation as in the one of c-qa.the determination of 3-ppa in every fermentation and control samples at the same concentration level leads to the conclusion that 3- ppa is not a microbial product resulting from the degradation of c-qa or c-ia.

due to the similar chemical structures of c-qa to c-ia it was assumed that c-ia has also a very low absorption rate in the small intestine and fermentation in the colon is much more relevant than absorption of the initial intact compound.

by comparing the degradation of c-qa with c-ia very similar metabolite formations and time courses were determined.with regard to the consumption of amaranth c-ia can be metabo- lized by the human gut microbiota.

while free phenolic acids such as caffeic acid ca chemical structure see  are nearly completely absorbed in the small in- testine measurements of the recovery of c-qa in ileostomy effluents showed that only 30 of c-qa is taken up by passive diffusion  .

whilst in europe and america the grains or seeds of amaranth are considered as pseudo- cereals in parts of africa and asia the leaves are mainly consumed asabbreviations ca caffeic acid c-ia caffeoylisocitric acid c-qa chlorogenic acid 34-dhppa 3-34-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid hplc-esi-msms high-performance liquid chromatographyelectrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry 3-hppa 3-3-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid 4-hppa 3-4-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid 3-ppa 3-phenylpro- pionic acid qpcr quantitative polymerase chain reaction corresponding author at grindelallee 117 20146 hamburg germany.e-mail addresses m. vollmer d. schroter s. esders s. neugart f.m.

finally the hungate tubes were autoclaved.in vitro fermentations with fecal sample microbiotathree independent in vitro fermentations fermentation a b and c with the substrates c-ia and c-qa as a reference were carried out at an initial ph value of 6.5 with a final volume of 10 ml.

immediately before the incubation of the fer- mentation media with the fecal suspension was performed 100 ml of the substrate c-qa or c-ia final concentration 200 mm pre-dissolved in dmso and 14 ml vitamin solution 10 g nicotinamide 5 g p-ami- nobenzioc acid 4 g thiamine 2 g biotin 2 g pantothenate 1 g mena- dione 0.5 g cobalamine per liter filter-sterilised were added to 9.4 mlof the fermentation medium while flushing with co2.

this is related to the fact that the donors might have consumed food the day before which also contained phenolic acids.furthermore to estimate the interactions between the medium and the substrates aliquots of 9.9 ml medium were filled into hungate tubes and mixed with 100 ml of c-qa or c-ia and 14 ml vitamin solu- tion 'control samples ii'.extraction of chlorogenic acid caffeoylisocitric acid and its metabolites400 ml fermentation mixture were mixed with 15 ml of ascorbic acid solution 20 in water for adjusting the ph and as a protector against autoxidation.

the method included the following substances ca c-qa c-ia benzoic acid 3-34- dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid 34-dhppa 3-3-hydroxyphenyl propionic acid 3-hppa 3-4-hydroxyphenylpropionic acid 4-hppa 3-phenylpropionic acid 3-ppa p-coumaric acid 34-dihydrox- ybenzoic acid 3-34-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid hippuric acid me- thylhippuric acid and phenylacetic acid.

