V vehicle PE prebiotics PO probiotics C synbiotics ROS reactive oxygen specieswas associated with high blood pressure cardiac sympa- thovagal imbalance and cardiac dysfunction and these adverse cardiac effects were due to increased systemic inflammation oxidative stress and the impairment of cardiac mitochondrial function 2 prebiotics probiotics and synbiotics improved metabolic parameters by attenu- ating insulin resistance oxidative stress and inflamma- tion in obese insulin-resistant rats and decreased the impairment of cardiac mitochondrial function leading to reduced blood pressure and improved cardiac sympatho- vagal balance all of which led to improved LV function in obese insulin-resistant rats.Long-term HFD consumption is known to cause obese insulin resistance which is characterized by body weight gain visceral fat accumulation hyperinsulinemia with euglycemia and dyslipidemia   .

In ND rats we found that cardiac mitochondrial ROS production cardiac mito- chondrial membrane potential changes cardiac mitochon- drial swelling and cardiac morphology were no different among the ND-treated rats Fig.

In this study we hypothesized that prebiot- ics and probiotics improved metabolic parameters cardiac autonomic function blood pressure and cardiac function by reducing oxidative stress inflammation and attenuated cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction in obese insulin-resist- ant rats and that synbiotics provide greater efficacy on both metabolic and LV function than either single regimen therapy.Materials and methodsAnimals and dietAll experiments in this study were approved by the Fac- ulty of Medicine Chiang Mai University Institutional Animal Care and Use committee approval no.

Furthermore our data showed that cardiac 4-HNE protein expres- sion was increased in HFV rats and all interventions reduced cardiac 4-HNE protein expression in HFD-fed rats suggesting that prebiotics probiotics and synbi- otics reduced cardiac oxidative stress in HFD-fed rats Fig.

a Serum MDA b cardiac MDA c cardiac 4-HNE protein expression d cardiac SODprotein expression in ND and HFD rats after 12 weeks of treatment.p  0.05 vs. NDV p  0.05 vs. HFV.

V vehicle PE prebiotics POprobiotics C synbiotics MDA malondialdehydePrebiotics probiotics and synbiotics attenuated cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction in obese insulin-resistant ratsIn this study cardiac mitochondrial ROS production car- diac mitochondrial membrane depolarization and car- diac mitochondrial swelling were determined to enable the assessment of cardiac mitochondrial function.

a-c. Prebiotics probiotics and synbiotics had similar efficacy in attenuating cardiac mitochondrial ROS levels cardiac mitochondrial membrane depolariza- tion and cardiac mitochondrial swelling in HFD-fed rats compared to HFV rats Fig.

a Cardiac mitochondrial ROS production b cardiac mitochondrial membranes potential change c cardiac mitochondrialswelling d representative images of cardiac mitochondria.

DOI 10.1007s00394-017-1482-3Chronic treatment with prebiotics probiotics and synbiotics attenuated cardiac dysfunction by improving cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction in male obese insulin-resistant ratsWannipa Tunapong123  Nattayaporn Apaijai12  Sakawdaurn Yasom14  Pongpan Tanajak123  Keerati Wanchai123  Titikorn Chunchai123  Sasiwan Kerdphoo12  Sathima Eaimworawuthikul12 Parameth Thiennimitr14  Anchalee Pongchaidecha123  Anusorn Lungkaphin123  Wasana Pratchayasakul123  Siriporn C. Chattipakorn125  Nipon Chattipakorn123Received 16 December 2016  Accepted 4 June 2017c Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany 2017AbstractPurpose In metabolic syndrome the composition of gut microbiota has been disrupted and is associated with left ventricular LV dysfunction.

Regarding their effects on the heart of HFD-fed animals multi-strains of probiotics had been shown to reduce cardiac remodeling and led to attenuate cardiac insulin resistance in rats  .

