bat brown adipose tissue ewat epididymal white adipose tissue hfd high fat diet iwat inguinal white adipose tissue ko knockout lfd low fat diet wt wild-type.ap  0.001 wtwt - lfd versus wtwt - hfd.bp  0.001 kowt - lfd versus kowt - hfd.or insulin tolerance in the absence of hematopoietic nod1 cannot be attributed to changes in body weight or adiposity.as expected hfd-fed wtwt mice displayed elevated fasting blood glucose levels compared to lfd-fed controls but interestingly these levels were consistently lower in kowt mice e. when challenged with a glucose tolerance test wtwt mice fed hfd again showed impaired glucose tolerance which was partially but significantly alleviated in the absence of hematopoietic nod1 f. notably these ob- servations were not due to differences in insulin secretion fig- ure s3c suggesting that kowt mice have improved insulin sensitivity.

total cd11b f480 macrophage numbers were higher in hfd-fed wt wt mice as previously shown for non-chimeric wt mice   and importantly a similar elevation in ewat macrophages was observed in kowt mice a.thus ewat macrophage infiltration was not dependent on he- matopoietic nod1.

in line with reports on wt mice  ewat neutrophil counts were higher in hfd-fed wtwt mice but strikingly this infiltration was abolished in the absence of hematopoietic nod1 e. corroborating these obser- vations expression of elastase elane a neutrophil-specific enzyme reported to trigger insulin resistance   was higher in ewat of hfd-fed compared to lfd-fed wtwt but not kowt mice f. notably in the liver neutrophil infiltration was also dependent on hematopoietic nod1 figure s4.

the neutrophil chemoattractants cxcl1 cxcl2 and cxcl12 were upregulated with hfd in ewat from wtwt mice but remarkably did not change in kowt mice and a lesser phosphorylation of the nf-kb p65 subunit in ewat from kowt mice correlated with lower production of these chemokines a and 5b.

importantly germ-free mice are pro- tected against hfd-induced obesity and insulin resistance   but become insulin resistant when colonized with gut microbiota from conventionally housed mice  .

using a hek293t cell-basedreporter assay that responds to nod1 activation we observed that serum from hfd-fed mice had a higher nod1 activating capacity compared to low fat diet lfd-fed mice a revealing that hfd elevates circulating nod1 activators.

as reported for both mice and humans   the bacteroidetes to firmi- cutes ratio decreased with hfd in our wtwt mice relative to lfd-fed controls and this change was not affected by the absence of nod1 in immune cells figure s2a.

similarly both visceral epididymal white adipose tissue ewat and subcutane- ous inguinal white adipose tissue iwat expanded with hfd regardless of bone marrow genotype c  with no differences in adipocyte size between wtwt and ko wt mice d. therefore any alterations arising in glucosetable 1. nod1 chimera study endpoint tissue weightswtwtkowttissuelfdhfdlfdhfdtissue weights in mg from wtwt or kowt mice following 18 weeks of lfd or hfd.

indeed insulin tolerance tests revealed that hfd- induced insulin resistance in wtwt mice was ameliorated in kowt mice g and s3d.

further while hfd suppressed insulin-stimulated akt phosphorylation in ewat of wtwt mice insulin action was intact in the kowt mice h. collectively these results demonstrate that nod1 depletion specifically from immune cells improves glucose and insulin tolerance at the adipose tissue and whole-body level independent of changes in body weight or adiposity.hematopoietic nod1 regulates adipose tissue pro- inflammatory macrophage polarization and neutrophil infiltrationa hallmark of metabolic inflammation is a rise in adipose tis- sue immune cells during hfd or obesity.

hfd induced a marked increase in pro- inflammatory cd11c macrophages in the wtwt mice as ex- pected but notably this elevation of cd11c macrophages was lower in kowt mice b. the differential proportion of cd11c macrophages correlated with the ly6c monocyte population in adipose tissue without changes in the cd11c dendritic cell count c and 3d.

cxcl2 expression was higher in both the adipocytes and svf of hfd-fed wtwt mice but again no diet-induced increase was observed in the svf of kowt mice c. these data imply that stromal vascular cells likely immune cells are the source of neutrophil chemoattractants produced during hfd-induced nod1 activation.

by immunohistochemical detection in ewat sections cxcl1 protein colocalized with the macrophage marker f480 within adipose tissue but not with the adipocyte cell body d. notably cxcl1 was enriched in crown-like structures macrophages surrounding dying adipocytes and these structures were less abundant in the hfd-fed kowt mice than wtwt mice figures s5a-s5c.

pgn elevated cxcl1 expression and secretion in bmdm from wtwt mice however these responses were significantly reduced in bmdm derived from kowt mice a and 6b underscoring a role for nod1 in cxcl1 production by macrophages.

see also figure s5.interestingly macrophages favored a non-inflammatory phenotype in the absence of nod1 as m1 markers such as nos2 il1b and il6 were significantly lower in bmdm from ko wt mice e. moreover while tlr4 and tlr2 expression were unaffected by nod1 depletion f cxcl1 expres- sion and secretion were reduced in bmdm from kowt mice in response to the tlr4 agonist lps or the saturated fatty acid palmitate which has been proposed to signal through tlr2 and tlr4  g and 6h.

