Since then many different groups have contributed to our current understanding of the crosstalk between the circadian clock and the energy state within the cell.The circadian clock regulates mitochondrial activity through temporal regulation of mitochon- drial fission mitophagy and biogenesis to maintain respiration at times of increased bioen- ergetic demand .

SIRT1 binds BMAL1CLOCK in a rhythmic manner and promotes the deacetylation of clock proteins and histones to create a feedback loop between the redox state and the circadian clock.

SIRT1 binds brain muscle Arnt-like protein 1 BMAL1clock locomotor output kaput CLOCK in a rhythmic manner and promotes the deacetylation of clock proteinsCellular Metabolism Is Under the Control of the ClockThe circadian clock regulates cellular metabolism through the control of transcription by imposing rhythmic expression on genes that encode metabolic enzymes.

Similarly deletion of the transcriptional activators of the circadian clock in neurons of the central nervous system results in increased oxidative damage in the brain .The importance of the circadian clocks in metabolic fitness raises the question of how the circadian clock may be implicated in the development of the metabolic syndrome.

Disruption of the circadian clock of the host either by mutations of clock genes or by jetlag abolishes the diurnal oscillation in composition of the intestinal microbiota .

Given that the circadian clock controls several aspects of immunity reviewed in  the interaction between the circadian clock and the microbiome may be one of the mechanisms responsible for the gender specificity in the development of autoimmune diseases.AgingDisrupted metabolism as a result of circadian misalignment may lead to accelerated aging.

Experiments in flies show that the core clock in the central pacemaker continues to oscillate with robust amplitude in older age despite age-related changes in the expression of individual clock proteins .

Although changes in clock gene expression are still not causally linked to pathology associated with aging we note that several clock targets are relevant to much of this pathology.

Further investigation of the role of the circadian clock in aging and the metabolic syndrome is required.Concluding RemarksFurther studies to improve our understanding of how circadian misalignment predisposes to the metabolic syndrome are needed so that we can get closer to using the circadian clock as a therapeutic tool see Outstanding Questions.

ReviewCircadian Clocks and Metabolism Implications for Microbiome and AgingGeorgios K. Paschos1 1The circadian clock directs many aspects of metabolism to separate in time opposing metabolic pathways and optimize metabolic efficiency.

