though the cdc gradually increased the regulation of hand hygiene practices - particu- larly in healthcare settings it was not until 2009 that an international standard for hand hygiene practices was established by the world health organization who in the comprehensive guidelines on hand hygiene .table 1 history and hand hygieneinterest in hand hygiene dates to the middle of the nineteenth century.

pasteurwas also working on puerperal fever in 1880 he published microbiological observation and recommendations concerning the disease  which were more readily accepted by the medical establishment than semmelweis's recommendations.the who explicitly defines hand hygiene as any ac- tion of hand cleansing and then goes on to delineate many specific hand hygiene practices which include everything from soap and water handwashing to surgical hand antisepsis.

despite the evidence that certain bacterial species re- main present on the hands over time their relative abundances are variable microbial communities on people's hands are significantly affected by host factors including sex relatedness living quarters hand hygiene and even pet ownership 7 hand hygiene is still regarded as the most important practice to prevent the transmission of microbes and minimize the spread of disease however compli- ance with hand hygiene practices in healthcare settings is generally low with mean baseline rates ranging from 5 to 89 typical rates may be no better than 40 .

these clinical studies have histo- rically been performed during periods of infectious out- break in hospital settings with the assumption that bacteria on the skin are pathogenic contaminants even with the growing use of high-throughput sequen- cing there have been few cultivation-independent studies that have investigated the direct effects of hand hygiene or product use on the hand microbiota  7 1. there is great potential to further our understanding of the hu- man hand microbiota by utilizing an ecological perspec- tive in healthcare settings where hygiene practices are vital.

after conducting a thorough review of peer-reviewed literature on hand hygiene the skin microbiota handwashing and hand drying compiling over 200 papers we systematically examined both clinical and commonplace definitions of hygiene and re-evaluated the concept in the context of a modern understanding of human-associated microbial ecology.

the term most often refers to hand hy- giene which the world health organization defines as a general term referring to any action of hand clean- sing hygiene may also refer to environmental hy- giene which can mean either the cleaning of surfaces within a person's most commonly a patient's environ- ment or more broadly infrastructural changes that alter the environment in a way perceived as beneficial to human health such as the installation of water and sewage treatment facilities .

in this review we focus primarily on hand hygiene since this aspect of hygiene is most com- monly used in the modern scientific literature.despite early recognition of the importance of hand hy- giene for controlling the spread of disease table - little attention was paid to the particulars for most of the twentieth century.

it is noteworthy that most regulations and recommendations concerning hand hygiene focus on the aspect of hygiene as the act of cleaning concen- trating on the reduction in bulk microbial load rather than the reduction in transmission of infection.current research on hand hygienethe focus on bulk reduction in microbial load is apparent in the majority of studies of hygiene--even those con- ducted by clinical microbiologists -.

though previously ignored  hand drying is a crucial aspect of hand hygiene because of the significant role that residual moisture plays in the transfer of microbes between surfaces -.

1 a diversity of the hand microbiome is variable with different studies finding different dominant groups though proteobacteria and actinobacteria are common members of the hand microbiome across studies data presented from .

however these studies examined bacterial load on the hands and failed to address the identities of the spe- cies that were affected by hand hygiene practices--identity matters when most members of the microbiota are com- mensal or even potentially mutualistic.cultivation-independent studies show some similar trends hand hygiene apparently reduced bacterial diver- sity on healthcare workers' hands though pathogen car- riage on the hands was also observed .

1880601033-44.boyce jm pittet d. guideline for hand hygiene in health-care settings recommendations of the healthcare infection control practices advisory committee and the hicpacsheaapicidsa hand hygiene task force.

comparative evaluation of the hygienic efficacy of an ultra-rapid hand dryer vs conventional warm air hand dryers.

2008. available from redway k knights b. hand drying a study of the hygiene and efficiency of different hand drying methods.

a microbiological evaluation of warm air hand driers with respect to hand hygiene and the washroom environment.

