c. difficile-associated diarrhea is caused by toxigenic strains characterized by the production of toxins including enterotoxin c. difficile toxin a and cytotoxin c. difficiletoxin b. in neonates only a minority of c. difficile strains are con-sidered pathogenic.

to estab- lish a causative relationship between toxigenic c. difficile and presence of clinical symptoms detailed insight in the pre- and post-treatment composition of the intestinal microbiota preferably by means of mo- lecular microbiota detection techniques could shed light on this di- lemma.alternatively demonstration of the presence of intestinal c. difficiletoxin receptors in neonates and young infants could scientifically sup- port the hypothesis that symptomatic c. difficile infections do occur in this specific population and should therefore be the focus of future studies.clostridium testingcurrently several tests are available for the detection of toxigenic c. difficile in feces  based on culture enzyme immunoassay or polymerase chain reaction .

difficile toxin-positive children 2 days-14 years median 2 years based on severity criteria9 mild infection8 moderate infection57 severe infectionlife threateningretrospective descriptive studyeia followed by cytotoxin assay7575 positive tests3 adenovirus positive3 norovirus positive2 rotavirus positive1 enterovirus positive3075 metronidazole 3 treatment failures with solely metronidazole escalation to vancomycin5575 73 had used antibiotics one month prior to infectionkhanna et al.2013 92 children 1 month-17 years median 2.3 years 16 children  1 year with toxinogenic c.difficile diarrheapopulation based cohort studytoxin eia or pcr9292 positive tests92 metronidazole 13 failures 7 vancomycin 2 rifaximin no failures overall recurrence rate 207292 78 had antibiotics prior to infectionduleba et al.2014 64 children 3 months-16 years median 2.1 years 9 children  1 year with c. difficile diarrhearetrospective case studypcr- 6464 positive test8 rotavirus positive2 salmonella positive2 yersinia positive1 adenovirus positive1 norovirus positive1 campylobacter positive3664 metronidazole 864 vancomycin and metronidazole 664 vancomycin 164 rifaximin salmonella coinfection 1364 no treatment good response in 4951 recurrence in 3 patients6164 95 had previous antibioticssamady et al.2014 134 patients 0-18 years 28 children  1 year with c. difficile diarrhea274 controls 58  1 year with c. difficile-negative diarrhearetrospective case- control studytoxin eia- 134134 positive test- 0274 controls positive testna88134 66 c. difficile patientsand 55274 20 controls had previous antibioticsg.-a.

the subgroup oftoxigenic c. difficile strains consisted of different ribotypes with highlyvariable virulence phenotypes including the hypervirulent 027 ribo- type .although in adults and older children toxigenic c. difficile is widelyaccepted as cause of bloody diarrhea less consensus exists on the potential of c. difficile as causative pathogen of bloody diarrhea in neonates and young infants up to 2 years of age.

c. difficile testing on fecal samples was positive c. difficile toxin gene pcr testing was positive c. difficile could be cultured from feces and toxins could be demonstrated in the feces by eai.

when a diagnosis of c. difficile infection in a young8table 1studies considering symptomatic clostridium difficile infections in neonates and infantspatient groupstudy designtesttest resultstreatmentresponsecommentenad et al.1997 87 nicu patients admitted during 4-month period and tested 2-weekly for c. difficile toxin aprospective cohort study- 1752 33 without diarrhea positive for c. difficile 517 toxin positivetoxin a eia4587 52 toxin a positiveblinding broken in 3 patients all toxin a positivetreated with vancomycinfrequent foul stoolsfrequent loose green stools abdominal distention dehydrationabdominal distention bloody stools diagnosed with necno difference in previous antibiotics between toxin positive and toxin negative groupferreira et al.2003 hospitalized children 0-5 years90 with acute diarrhea91 controlsretrospective case studyccnapositive tests in244 patients 0-5 months222 patients 6-11 months124 patients 1-5 years 091 controlsnasome patients had previousantibiotic therapymorinvill et al.

although fecal transplantation in recurrent c. difficile infections in adults has been proven superior as therapy compared to prolonged antibiotic treatment studies on efficacy of this relatively novel therapeutic approach in children with recurrent c. difficile infections are currently lacking .conclusionbased on the assumption that symptomatic c. difficile infections do not occur in children below two years of age current policy of several microbial laboratories is not to test for these infections in this specific population.

we present two young infants with recurrent bloody diarrhea following antimicrobial therapy positive testing for toxigenic c. difficile and successfully treated with metronidazole and vancomycin and provide an overview of the literature on c. difficile infections in children under two years of age.

between 25 and 70 of neonates are colonized with c. difficile 781011. within this specific age group c. difficile may therefore be considered a component of the commensal microbiota.

at follow-up c. difficile pcr culture and toxin testing were negative.discussionfor considerable time it has been assumed that symptomatic in- fections do not occur in neonates and young infants although coloni- zation rate with c. difficile is very high in this specific age-group .

it was advised to look for alternative etiologies even in those infants with a positive test result for c. difficile .however reports discussing pathophysiological mechanisms on how young infants may be protected from developing symptomatic c. difficile infections have not been substantiated by robust scientific data and are merely hypothetical.

it could be questioned whether the applied study design is sufficient to allow extrapolation of findings to the general neonatal population.alternative theories regarding the observation that young infants colonized with c. difficile do not suffer from symptoms direct to the potential positive effect of maternal antibodies transferred to the child by breastmilk and the composition of the neonatal gut environment .a review of the literature yielded at least eight studies including children below one year of age that strengthen the hypothesis that symptomatic c. difficile infections do occur in neonates and infants with bloody diarrhea as the most frequently reported presenting symptom  .

to distinguish between c. difficile in- fection and colonization it is of importance to assess whether toxins or toxigenic c. difficile strains are present.

kuiper et al.idcases1020177-11table 2laboratory tests to diagnose clostridium difficile.testtargetdescriptioneia for c. difficileglutamate dehydrogenasedetection of c. difficile glutamate dehydrogenase in feces.

no distinction between toxin producing and non-toxin producing c. difficile.eia for toxintoxin a and bimmunoassay directed at toxin a and b. short turnaround time limited sensitivity.toxigenic culturetoxin producing c.difficileselective culture of c. difficile with immunoassay detection of toxins.

