the results showed that the microbial richness and diversity in piglets' feces pf significantly increased from birth to weaning 21 d. the composition and function of microbiota in the feces of piglets after birth tended to be similar to those from the slatted floor fl sow's milk sm and nipple surface sn and lacter the fecal microbial communities of piglets later during lactation were more similar to their mother's.

eanaerobes in the microbiomeco-occurrence of early gut colonization in neonatal piglets with microbiota in the maternal and surrounding delivery environmentsxue chen jumei xu erdou ren yong su weiyun zhujiangsu key laboratory of gastrointestinal nutrition and animal health college of animal science and technology nanjing agricultural university nanjing 210095 chinaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 24 july 2017 received in revised form 4 december 2017accepted 5 december 2017available online 6 december 2017 handling editor vercoe emma allenkeywordsearly colonization delivery environment microbiotanewborn pigleta b s t r a c t the early development of gut microbiota plays a fundamental role in host health so far the main origins of the first colonization in newborn piglets are largely unclear.

b principal coordinate analysis pca of microbial functional diversity across all digesta samples using the relative abundances of functional pathways.breastfeeding may enrich vaginally acquired lactic acid-producing bacteria in the baby's intestine and human milk and limit the growth of several strains of e. coli which may explain the variable abundance of lactobacillus and escherichia-shigella in suckling piglets .in the early postnatal period the piglets' gut microbiota had more shared otus with sv sm and fl and all these otus together made up all the core microbiota in the pf.

5. a venn diagram illustrating the overlap of bacterial otus at the 3 dissimilarity level for a piglets' feces pf and slatted floor fl b pf and sows' feces sf c pf and sow's vaginal mucosa sv d pf and sow's milk sm and e pf and the surface of sow's nipples sn on d 1 and h pf and sf g pf and sm h pf and sn and i pf and fl on d 7.addition sf sm sf and sn had 46 54 51 and 53 shared otus withthose in pf on d 7 which comprised 26.36 58.46 35.97 and 47.61 of reads in pf libraries respectively.

as a great exploring area to an infant sn might transfer microbiota to a piglet's gut directly or via breast milk however further studies are needed to understand the role of milk-derived microbes on the gut development and health of young animals.picrust was used to further investigate the bacterial function of all the samples and to gain more insight into the succession of piglets' gut microbiota during lactation.

although the fundamental role of infant gut microbiota in animal health has attracted many researchers to explain the development process e information on the succession of gut microbiota of the neonate during early life is limited.the earliest settlers in infant gut are facultative anaerobes namely enterobacteria enterococci and staphylococci and then an- aerobes such as bifidobacteria bacteroides and clostridia get into the immature gut and settle down .

this study suggests that microbes from the maternal and sur- rounding environments may play an important role in the microbial succession of newborn piglets after birth.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionthe colonization of gut microbita in newborn animals is mandatory for the maturation of intestinal function and immune system e. the gut ecosystem of newborn animals characterizes unstable and a drastic variation in microbial composition which affected by complicated factors including the delivery mode maternal microbiota feeding type and habitat .

samples in the fl sm sn and sv gathered together and pf samples on d 1 were close to those in sm and sn while pf samples on d 21 were close to those in sf.the association of early microbial colonization in newborn piglets with the maternal and surrounding delivery environmentsvenn diagrams were constructed to better understand the shared otus between pf samples and other environmental sam- ples .

a pca of the relative abundance of the kegg pathways represented from all samples showed that piglets' fecal samples from d 1 to d 21 were clearly distinct b. the clustering of pf on d 1 leaned towards those of the sm and sn samples while the clustering of pf on d 21 was closer to the sf samples.of the 39 gene families 31 in pf changed significantly in the abundance among the different days and 2 8 and 20 gene families had significantly different abundance between d 1 and d 7 in the microbiota of sm sf and sn respectively.

this study aimed to clarify the co-occurrence of early gut colonization in suckling pig- lets and reveal the influencing factors via comparing the microbial compositions of piglets' gut ecosystem at several time points dur- ing lactation with those in the surroundings.generally the present study found that the taxonomic groups represented within all samples were firmicutes bacteroidetes and proteobacteria which varied considerably among the days in abundance and in the number of genera belonging to them.

however from d 3 to d 21 the gut mi- crobes of pigs were mainly from an unknown environment which suggests that the microbes in the maternal and surrounding de- livery environments can only affect the gut microbial developmentof piglets in the short term.in the present study the nmds profile showed that the floor shared similar microbes to the vaginal mucus milk or nipple.

the relative abundance of genera bacteroides and unclassified christensenellaceae decreased significantly from d 1 to d 7 p  0.05 whereas unclassified bacteroidales unclassifiedprevotellaceae streptococcus and treponema increased significantly c.proteobacteria was the most predominant phylum in sm and sn samples on d 1 and firmicutes increased gradually and became the predominant phylum on d 7. genera aerococcus clostridium sensu stricto corynebacterium jeotgalicoccus moraxella psychrobacter unclassified ruminococcaceae unclassified lachnospiraceae ter- risporobacter and turicibacter significantly increased from d 1 to d 7in sn samples d. halomonas the most predominant genus in sm and sn on d 1 significantly decreased on d 7 while the relative abundance of genus staphylococcus in sm significantly increased from d 1 to d 7 e.non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds of bray-curtis similarity matrices for otu-based clustering indicated that the composition of bacterial communities in pf samples was separated according to age .

six vaginally-delivered litters of piglets each litter with 10e12 piglets born on the same day were finally used in this study.

7. the network of co-occurring otus based on a positive correlation in piglets' feces with environmental samples on d 1 a and piglets' feces with environmental samples on d 7 b. only otus with relative abundance of 20.5 are presented.fig.

this study aimed to investigate the early development of gut microbiota in newborn piglets during lactation and their co-occurrence with mi- crobes in the maternal and surrounding environments by illumina miseq sequencing of 16s ribosomal rna genes.

