to eliminate residual galactose catabolism by dexv1 we deleted galk which encodes galactokinase to obtain dexv2.hexose-specific e. coli strains in mixed-sugar mediaafter optimizing the engineered strains for growth on their specific sugar limiting growth on alternative sugars and modifying these strains to grow in the presence of repressing sugars we evaluated their growth in a mixed-sugar medium m9dgm.

2014. strains of e. coli engineered for selective consumption of the hexoses glucose galactose and mannose have not been investigated for use in microconsortia.in this work we expand the microconsortium approach for utilization of mixed-sugar media by modifying the sugar preference of e. coli mg1655 using genetic manipulations and adaptive evolution to create strains that preferentially consume only one of glucose galactose or mannose.

1967 which suggests that in the presence of alternate hexoses mannose may be metabolized through activity of promiscuous catabolic pathways.our results which are corroborated by findings in literature indicated that many of the sugar transporters in e. coli are promiscuous and deletion of the major transporters responsible for transporting a sugar is insufficient to completely abolish uptake and growth on that sugar.

optimization of glucose xylose and arabinose co-utilization has already been investigated using the micro- consortium approach of sugar-specific e. coli strains eiteman et al.growth conditionsunless stated otherwise strains were grown in lb broth amresco solon oh with shaking 250 rpm or on lb agar 1.5 at 37oc and when necessary were supplemented with kanamycin kan chloramphenicol cam tetracycline tet andor ampicillin amp at concentrations of 50 25 10 and 100 mgml respectively.

finally for the first generation mannose specific strain manv1 we deleted pgi the gene that encodes phosphoglucose isomerase as well as ptsg crr glk mglc and galp.hexose-specific e. coli strains in single-sugar mediawe first tested the growth of the first generation of sugar-specific strains and the wt in minimal media containing a single sugarm9d m9g and m9m.

additionally we expand the analysis of the microconsortium method by tracking the relative populations of all three strains show that their combined growth rate is similar or considerably higher that the the wildtype wt in multiple media and the maximum cell density exceeds that of wt in all media tested.materials and methodsstrains and plasmidsthe strains and plasmids used in this study are listed in table i.thiamine-hcl 1 mll 1000trace metals mixture teknova50 mm fecl3 20 mm cacl2 10 mm mncl2 10 mm zncl2 2 mm cocl2 2 mm cucl2 2 mm nicl2 2 mm sodium molybdate 2 mm sodium selenite 2 mm boric acid and 0.25 of the appropriate sugar d-glucose dextrose m9d d-galactose m9g andor d-mannose m9m.

wt e. coli mg1655 black diamonds and mutant derivative strains specific for growth on glucose dexv1 green triangles galactose galv1 blue squares or mannose manv1 red circles were grown in minimal media containing a 0.25 glucose b 0.25 galactose or c 0.25 mannose respectively as the sole sugar.

the netherlands springer.steinsiek s bettenbrock k. 2012. glucose transport in escherichia coli mutant strains with defects in sugar transport systems.

we show that the strains developed grow well on the desired sugar and poorly when grown on alternative sugars and can catabolize their intended sugar in the presence of repressing sugars like glucose.

4b the glucose concentration did not vary for the duration of the experiment the mannose concentration dropped 20 during 22 h of growth and galactose was fully consumed after 22 h. manv3 did not utilize any glucose or galactose when grown on m9dgm and grew well solely on mannose depleting this sugar within 13 h. the residual mannose consumption of galv3 and dexv2 was deemedinconsequential due to the much faster mannose utilization of manv3.catabolism of sugar mixtures by a microconsortiumthe strains dexv2 galv3 and manv3 were determined to be sufficiently specific for their intended substrate to evaluate their combined growth on a hexose mixture.

adaptive evolution of the dex strain was unnecessary because it grew similarly to the wton glucose and the addition of galactose or mannose to the media does not impact e. coli growth on glucose as it is the preferred substrate mcginnis and paigen 1969.wt e. coli transports and phosphorylates glucose using enzyme ii of the glucose phosphotransferase system pts eiiglc and enzyme ii of the mannose pts eiiman or transports glucose using an alternate sugar transporter such as the galactose permease galp galactose abc transporter mglbac or maltose pts malx and then phosphorylates intracellular glucose using glucokinase glk boos and shuman 1998 death and ferenci 1993 henderson et al.

e. coli transports and phosphorylates mannose tochappell and nair hexose-specific e. coli microconsortium2315biotechnology and bioengineeringfigure 5. microconsortium and wt growth on m9pine 0.37 mannose 0.28 glucose 0.1 galactose a sugar concentrations and total cell density of microconsortium culture.

after 10 subcultures strains were plated on selective media and then subcultured an additional 10 times yielding strains that were subcultured a total of 20 times  200 generations.

1959. this deletion was unnecessary in strains manv2 and manv3 which were incapable of galactose catabolism because of deletions in pgi and zwf that prevented g6p flux into glycolysis and ppp respectively.finally we removed mannose metabolism in dex and gal strains.

this should be considered when designing an anabolic pathway for production of value-added products.having confirmed that our first version of engineered strains were largely sugar-specific we focused on removing glucose- dependent transcriptional repression of gal and man strains.

