vita- min b12 deficiency is linked to anaemia developmental disorders metabolic abnormalities and neuropathy ship- ton and thachil 2015.how does the compound enter the host metabolism is this a direct product of its own microbiota an indirect supply via its food or both a host and its microbiota assemble a metabolism made of diverse pathway branches constituting a complex meta-metabolism ibrahim and anishetty 2012. metabolite precursors and by-products are synthesized via collaboration between a variety of organisms that shape the micro- biota.

2013.birdsin general reviews of their association with microbial studies vertebrates of various feeding habits cattle cetaceans reptiles or birds are known to require b12 for a variety of enzymes hanning and diaz-sanchez 2015. the question that arises again is then whether the microbiota associated with a particular host produce enough of the molecule for steady-state use or whether the host needs to complement this supply via eating meat from self-sufficient animals via their microbiota for the production of the molecule.

there was however a considerable variation between individuals as expected if there was at least some contribution of individual microbiota castle 1985. antibiotic supplementation a long used while disputable practice increases the meat yield of poultry while affect- ing microbiota especially in increasing the proportion of lactobacilli crisol-martinez et al.

2013. this may account for the generally coprophobic beha- viour of man an animal which had the opportunity to eat a substantial amount of animal food thus depending less on its own microbiota as we shall see.the role of ageas their hosts do microbiota evolve with age and b12 deficiency is often a marker of ageing in animals.

2016. in man conventional microbiological investiga- tions of the faecal microbiota showed both bacteria-spe- cific as well as a general pattern of ageing of the colonic microbiota with the last decades older than 60 years demonstrating the most profound changes.

this prompted a study that compared microbiota from humans living in traditional societies with microbiota produced in industrial countries braham 2015.looking for gene signatures is a direct way to explorethe functional capacity coded by microbiomes.

how is this conundrum solvedcobalamins as effectors of microbiota structurationwhile animals have a very limited set of enzymes where coenzyme b12 is essential this is not so for microbiota.

the reason is that we do not have proper baselines that we could use to monitor how microbiota cope with key metabolites in the hosting environment.

here focusing on animal gut microbiota we describe the fate of cobalamins - metabolites of the b12 coenzyme fam- ily - that are essential for animals but synthesized only by prokaryotes.

microbiota produce the vitamin used in a variety of animals and in algae.

by contrast the vitamin is key for structuring microbiota.

e-mail antoine.danchinnormalesup.org tel.331 4217 7981 fax 331 4217 8473.microbial biotechnology 2017 104 688-701 doi10.11111751-7915.12722introductionthe fashionable study of animal metagenomes keeps generating a huge variety of experiments that describe correlations between specific microbiota of animal origin most often human and health or longevity.

yet it is exceptional that these studies can separate between recognized effects caused by the microbiota or consequences of a common cause that acts in parallel on host health and microbe-dependent metabolite production.

1. this may establish an explicit role possibly direct but often indirect of the microbiota.

1. flow chart of microbiota metagenome studies.

