5 504-510addendumcollateral damage during antibiotic treatment of c. difficile infection in the aged host insights into why recurrent disease happensjae hyun shin and cirle a. warrenuniversity of virginia school of medicine department of medicine division of infectious diseases and international healtharticle historyreceived 2 november 2016 revised 18 april 2017 accepted 21 april 2017keywordsaging clostridium difficile infection host response humoral response microbiomeclostridium difficile infection cdi is the most com- mon pathogen to cause healthcare-associated infec- tions in the united states and is responsible for an excess cost to the healthcare system of at least 1 billion dollars annually.it is an even bigger problem for the aging population.

in cdi in humansantibody response to c. difficile has been shown to be the difference between symptomatic infection and asymptomatic colonizationas well as between recur- rence and resolution of cdi.these findings sug- gest an important role for antibody response in cdi pathogenesis.regarding the link between microbiota and anti- body response there is a paucity of data in the litera- ture so far.

antibody response the second potential mechanism for predicting cdi recurrence has been shown to be an important factor as well specifically antibody response against c. difficile toxins.although dif- ferent antibodies were shown to be important in dif- ferent studies - igm anti-toxin a igg anti-toxin a iga anti-toxin a iga anti-toxin b - they all show association between stronger antibody response and lower likelihood of recurrence.recent studies on piglet model of cdiand in humansshowed that monoclonal antibodies directed against toxin b but not toxin a were effective in preventing recurrence of cdi.

aging has been asso- ciated with decreased ability to produce high affinity immunoglobulinsand lower antibody response to vaccinesbut has not been shown to have association with antibody response to c. difficile specifically.in our study we used a mouse model of cdi to study the effect of aging on cdi specifically focusing on severity and relapse and measuring antibody response and intestinal microbiota to explore possible mechanisms of higher recurrence.

however conventional wisdom so far would suggest that microbiome mainly affects the susceptibility of the host to becoming colonized with c. difficile bacteriarather than thefigure 1. effect of treatment with vancomycin 50 mgkgday for 5 d days 1-5 after infection in clostridium difficile-infected young mice aged 2 months and aged mice aged 18 months.weight change from baseline before infection up to the day of death.

vancomycin treatment alters humoral immunity and intestinal microbiota in an aged mouse model of clostridium difficile infection.

vancomycin treatment alters humoral immunity and intestinal microbiota in an aged mouse model of clostridium difficile infection.

van- comycin treatment alters humoral immunity and intestinal micro- biota in an aged mouse model of clostridium difficile infection.

an in-vitro model of colonisa- tion resistance to clostridium difficile infection.

vancomycin treatment alters humoral immunity and intestinal microbiota in an aged mouse model of clostridium difficile infection.

humoral immune response as predictor of recurrence in clostridium difficile infection.

clin infect dis 2016 636730-4 pmid27365387 wullt m noren t ljungh a akerlund t. igg antibody response to toxins a and b in patients with clostridium difficile infection.

if an association between microbiota and humoral response can be demonstrated as suggested in this study this may explain the difference in outcome between young and aged mice and between initial and relapsed infection in our model.

clin infect dis off publ infect dis soc am 2006 426758-64 https pepin j alary m-e valiquette l raiche e ruel j fulop k godin d bourassa c. increasing risk of relapse after treatment of clostridium difficile colitis in quebec can- ada.

clin micro- biol infect 2014 20121323-8.steele j mukherjee j parry n tzipori s. antibody against tcdb but not tcda prevents development of gastrointestinal and systemic clostridium difficile dis- ease.

