a percent bacteroides in the proximal colon contents of male offspring n ll 12 lh 12 hl 10 hh 11. b percent bacteroides in the proximal colon contents of female offspring n ll 11 lh 12 hl 12 hh 10. c percent prevotella in the proximal colon contents of male offspring n ll 12 lh 12 hl 10 hh 12. d percent prevotella in the proximal colon contents of female offspring n ll 11 lh 12 hl 12 hh 10. e percent bacteroides in dam feces throughout pregnancy bm pm bb n ld 3 hd 6. f percent bacteroides in dam feces bb n ld 20 hd 19. groups are labeled as ll and hh for offspring receiving low vitamin d or high vitamin d from conception until adulthood 25 iu per kg diet or 5000 iu per kg diet respectively or switched post-weaning lh and hl.

these findings are consistent with mouse and clinical studies where increased bacteroides have been observed in response to prebiotic administration which was accompanied by higher calcium absorption.it was postulated that these benefits depend on the capacity of bacteroides to ferment dietary carbohydrates andthe subsequent production of short chain fatty acids that ultimately results in mineral accretion.as differences in their association with diet have been observed at the sub-genus level it will be important to assess if the relationship between bacteroides and bone also vary for different species.moreover it is important to point out that syntropic interactions occur within the gut microbiota including bacteroides.thus it is possible that the effect of vitamin d on this genus also modulates the activity of other microorganisms or that bacteroides modula- tion is in fact secondary to other microbial changes induced by vitamin d. it is highly likely that diet affects these microbial metabolic relationships.

bacteroides and prevotella the main genera within the bacteroidetes phylum were not specifically studied in response to vitamin d. these two genera drive the discrimination of human enterotypes 1 and 2 respectivelyand have been thus used as a proxy to study the effect of dietary interventions on the microbiota.in fact these two genera may affect host energy metabolismand in the context of a western diet high in fat and sugar have been suggested as diet and lifestyle biomarkers.in addition fecal levels of bacteroides were found to have a role in calcium absorption via their fermentation capacityand were associated with calcium content of the lumbar vertebrae in ovariectomized rats.on the other hand prevotella species have been implicated in osteomyelitis.the aim of this study was to determine if high maternal dietary vitamin d programs intestinal bacteroides and prevotella and whether these changes are associated with bone mineral content bmc and bone mineral density bmd bone strength and bone structure of male and female adult offspring in an obesogenic environment.materials and methodsanimal study and sample collectionthe study design has been published previouslyand can be found in supplementary figure s1.

where significance is set at p o0.05.resultshigh maternal dietary vitamin d programs the percent of bacteroides but not prevotella in the proximal colon contents in male but not female mice independent of the percent of dam fecal bacteroides bbin the offspring there was a maternal effect of high dietary vitamin d on bacteroides in the proximal colon contents dam diet p  o0.001 which were higher in mice from dams on high vitamin d with no change in prevotella in male offspring p40.05 at 7 months of age.

however dietaryvitamin d did not alter bacteroides in the feces of dams bb 1f p  0.998.percent bacteroides in the proximal colon contents depends on dietary vitamin d and sex whereas percent prevotella in the same region is only sex dependentcomparing the most extreme dietary intervention groups ll and hh between male and female offspring at 7 months of age revealed both a diet p o0.001 and interaction p o0.001 effect of both sex and diet on bacteroides in the proximal colon contents 2a.

however no association was found for percent bacteroides and the parameters of trabecular bone measured in female offspring of the same age p40.05 supplementary figure 2.discussionwe previously showed that maternal vitamin d programs systemic lps which negatively correlates with healthier trabecular bone structure in males but not female adult offspring in an obesogenic environment.here we found that maternal dietary vitamin d results in a greater percent of bacteroides in the proximal colon contents moreover colonic bacteroides but not prevotella were found to correlate negatively with lps and tb.sp.

two- way anova with 'dam diet' and 'pup diet' as main effects were utilized for log counts per gram of feces of bacteroides and prevotella from the proximal colon contents in male and female offspring at 7 months of age.

males on a high vitamin d diet had an approximate fivefold increase in percent bacteroides in their proximal colon contents compared with males p o0.001 and females p o0.001 on a low vitamin d diet and females on a high vitamin d diet p o0.001.

denote significance at p o0.001.proximal colon contents of male and female offspring at 7 months of age 2b p  0.001. males on a low and high vitamin d diet had a 3.7 and 14.5-fold increase respectively in percent prevotella compared with females on the same vitamin d diet.high dietary vitamin d alters vdr expression in the proximal colon of male but not female offspring at weaning but not in 7-month- old offspring fed an obesogenic dietsemiquantitative expression of vdr was demonstrated as brown staining specifically in the nuclei of enterocytes whereas goblet cells lacked specific immunoreaction consistent with the literature b. high dietary vitamin d did not alter the expression of the vdr in the proximal colon in any region of the mucosa separately including the secs iecs and becs or collectively as an average expression score in male or female mice at 7 months of age b respectively.

groups are labeled as ld and hd for offspring consuming a low or high vitamin d diet from conception until weaning 25 iu per kg diet or 5000 iu per kg diet respectively.

this was not observed in female siblings 3d p40.05.percent bacteroides in the proximal colon contents correlates negatively with circulating lps and positively with bone structure in male but not female offspring at 7 months of age fed an obesogenic dietproximal colon content percent bacteroides correlated with trabecular bone structure and metabolic parameters that we previously published supplementary table s2.

proximal colon content derived percent bacteroides negatively correlated with male offspring serum lps concentrations lps spearman r  - 0.488 p  0.018. in addition percent bacteroides also correlated with structural parameters of the lumbar vertebra a positive correlation with bvtv spearman r  0.549 p  0.015 and tb.n.

furthermore there was no effect of a high vitamin d diet on bacteroides 1b p40.05 or prevotella 1d p40.05 in the proximal colon contents in female offspring.

however only sex significantly affected prevotella infigure 2. effect of diet and sex on the percent bacteroides and prevotella in the proximal colon contents in offspring at 7 months of age in an obesogenic environment.

a sex and diet effects on the percent bacteroides in male n ll 12 hh 11 and female n ll 11 hh 10 offspring at 7 months of age between extreme dietary vitamin d intervention groups ll and hh.

