In contrast levels of cells expressing CD68 which is preferentially expressed by mucosal phagocytes especially dendritic cells and macrophages did not differ between subjects with and without diabetes C and D thus suggesting that activation of mucosal B cells may result from microbiota encroachment.Lastly considering that microbiota encroachment correlated with dysglycemia rather than obesity per se we sought to consider the possibility that microbiotaFigure 6.

Specifically IBD- prone individuals frequently display gut bacteria close to andor in direct contact with the epithelium often accom- panied by a thinner or disorganized mucus layer whereas in control subjects the dense inner layer of mucus rarely ex- hibits bacteria.Such encroaching bacteria are thought to play a role in triggering the activation of the mucosal im-mune system that characterizes IBD.Studies in mice suggest that alteration of the host- microbiota can also result in more mild forms of inflammation characterized by modest elevations in proin- flammatory gene expression that associate with metabolic syndrome.

A Distances of the closest bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells was measured in 5 high-powered fields per sample and plotted versus fasting blood glucose concentration.

B Distances of the closest bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells was measured in 5 high-powered fields per sample and plotted versus hemoglobin A1C level.

C Distances of the closest bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells was measured in 5 high-powered fields per sample and plotted versus body mass index.

D-G Distances of the closest bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells per condition over 5 high-powered field according to the diabetes mellitus D E or the obese F G status.

A Distances of the closest bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells was measured in 5 high- powered fields per sample and plotted versus cholesterol concentration.

B Distances of the closest bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells was measured in 5 high-powered fields per sample and plotted versus triglyceride concentration.

C Distances of the closest bacteria to intestinal epithelial cells was measured in 5 high-powered fields per sample and plotted versus low-density lipoprotein concentration.

Distances of the closest bacteria to in- testinal epithelial cells was measured in 5 high- powered fields per sample and plotted versus hemo- globin A1C level A B fasting blood glucose concentration C D or body mass index E F. Linear regression line was plotted and R2 and P values were determined.

