familial colorectal cancer accounts for approximately 25 of all cases and is also caused by inherited mutations although they are not classified as inherited cancers per se since they cannot be included in any inherited cancer variant .risk factorsworldwide the probability of suffering from colorectal cancer is about 4-5. furthermore many personal traits or habits are considered to be risk factors as they increase the chances of developing polyps or colorectal cancer.the main risk factor for colorectal cancer is age past the fifth decade of life the risk of developing crc is markedly increased while the onset of colorectal cancer below the age of fifty is rare apart from inherited cancers .

a personal history of colorectal cancer or inflammatory bowel disease ibd--the risk in patients with ulcerative colitis is increased by 3.7  while people suffering from crohn's disease have a 2.5 higher risk of developing colorectal cancer --are also important risks for colorectal cancer development.

one example of the combined effect of genetics and epigenetics in the colorectal cancer development process is the presence of braf mutations as well as microsatellite instability in many cimp tumours .new molecular discoveries in colorectal cancer crcinfluence of genomic aberrations on crc outcomenew genomic techniques have allowed the identification of a vast number of genomic aberrations involved in colorectal cancer.

however predictions for 2016 are not encouraging at all with 134490 new cases of colorectal cancer and 49190 deaths related to this cancer expected.aetiologymutations in specific genes can lead to the onset of colorectal cancer as happens in other types of cancer.

for instance it is thought that a sedentary lifestyle can increase the risk of developing colorectal cancer although this relationship between colorectal cancer and inactivity is not completely defined.

in this context diet is strongly linked to the risk of colorectal cancer such that unhealthy nutritional habits increase the chances of developing colorectal cancer by up to 70 .

although smoking increases crc risk a significant relationship has only been found for long-term smokers whether they have stopped smoking or not .molecular pathways of colorectal cancergenomic instability is an important feature underlying colorectal cancer.

these mirnas bind to the 3'utr regions of several mrnas thus inducing their degradation or repressing their translation consequently associating crc with deregulation of different mirnas table and figure .table 1. mirnas involved in colorectal cancer crc.inhibition of tumour growth and metastasis and induction of sensitivity to chemotherapeutic drugsmir-9tm4sf1suppression of cell migration and invasion mir-503calcium-sensing receptorinduction of proliferation migration and invasiontable 1. cont.of wntb-catenin pathwayincrease of paclitaxel chemo-sensitivityfigure 3. schematic representation of the different mirnas blue and lncrnas green involved in colorectal carcinogenesis.

gold atoms are strongly attracted to thiol and selenol groups and can therefore bind selenium-dependent proteins such as thioredoxin reductase which is upregulated in some kinds of cancers such as colorectal cancer and is directly implicated in tumour progression and survival  meaning that inhibition thereof triggers cancer cell death .inhibition of thioredoxin reductase is not the only mechanism that gold-containing drugs can use against colorectal cancer.

screening and surveillance for the early detection of colorectal cancer and adenomatous polyps 2008 a joint guideline from the american cancer society the us multi-society task force on colorectal cancer and the american college of radiology.

colorectal neoplasia differentially expressed crnde a novel gene with elevated expression in colorectal adenomas and adenocarcinomas.

du x. down-regulation of ncran a long non-coding rna contributes to colorectal cancer cell migration and invasion and predicts poor overall survival for colorectal cancer patients.

previstage tm gcc colorectal cancer staging test a new molecular test to identify lymph node metastases and provide more accurate information about the stage of patients with colorectal cancer.

colorectal cancer 2012 11 93-100.  de gramont a.d. figer a. seymour m. homerin m. hmissi a. cassidy j. boni c. cortes-funes h. cervantes a. freyer g. leucovorin and fluorouracil with or without oxaliplatin as first-line treatment in advanced colorectal cancer.

reviewcolorectal carcinoma a general overview and future perspectives in colorectal cancerines marmol 1 cristina sanchez-de-diego 12 alberto pradilla dieste 1 elena cerrada 3and maria jesus rodriguez yoldi 14departamento de farmacologia y fisiologia facultad de veterinaria universidad de zaragoza 50013 zaragoza spain i.m.

