b.effect of monocolonization of gf miceby l. plantarumnizo2877 or e. coli nissle 1917 on cyp gene expressionfirst we have observed the effect of monocolonization of gf mice by bacterial strains in comparison with gf mice fig.

spf specific pathogen-free mice with normal intesti- nal flora gf germ-free mice lacking intestinal flora gf  l. plantarum germ-free mice monocolonized by l. plantarumnizo2877 gf  e. coli nissle 1917 germ-free mice monocolonized by probiotic bacteria e. coli nissle 1917. asterisk gene expression of cyps mrna significantly different in comparison with spf mice.

differences were regarded as statistically significant when the p value was lower than 0.05.resultscomparison of cyp gene expression in gf vs. control spf micethe mrna expressions of cyps were determined in the liver of germ-free gf mice and were compared to mrna cyps of control-specific pathogen-free spf mice fig.

hence in case of this gene the monocolonization of the gf animals with bacteria did not convert the expression more closely to the state in the spfmice as it happened with the cyp1a2.increased level of cyp2e1 expression observed in the gf mice fig.

in the present study we determined the mrna expression of cyp1a1 cyp1a2 cyp2b10 cyp2c29 cyp2c38 cyp2d22 cyp2e1 cyp3a11 and 3a13 in the liver of gf mice and gf mice colonized by bacterial strainsl.

after the colonization of the gf mice with l. plantarumnizo2877 or probiotic e. coli nissle 1917 the level of cyp3a11 has remained downregulat- ed and corresponded to the gf conditions fig.

to investigate the effect of microbial colonization on messen- ger rna mrna expression of liver cytochromes p450 cyps the main drug-metabolizing enzymes we used germ- free gf mice lacking the intestinal flora and mice monocolonized by non-pathogenic bacteria lactobacillus plantarumnizo2877 or probiotic bacteria escherichia coli nissle 1917 compared to specific pathogen-free spf mice.

our results show that the mrna expression of cyp1a2 and cyp2e1 was significantly increased while the expression of cyp3a11 mrna was decreased under gf conditions compared to the spf mice.

the both bacteria l. plantarumnizo2877 and e. coli nissle 1917 given to the gf mice decreased the level of cyp1a2 mrna and normalized it to the control level.

on the other hand the coloni- zation by these bacteria had no effect on the expression of e. anzenbacherova 1 department of medical chemistry and biochemistry faculty of medicine and dentistry palacky university olomouc olomouc czech republic2 department of pharmacology palacky university olomouc olomouc czech republic3 institute of molecular and translational medicine faculty of medicine and dentistry palacky university olomouc olomouc czech republic4 institute of microbiology the czech academy of sciences novy hradek czech republiccyp3a11 mrna in the liver of the gf mice which remained decreased.

surprisingly monocolonization with chosen bacterial strains has shown a different effect on the expression of cyp2e1 mrna in gf mice.

increased level of cyp2e1 expression ob- served in the gf mice was found also in mice colonized byl.

in our study the germ- free gf mice lacking the intestinal flora and mice intention- ally colonized by probiotic bacterial strains were used to deter- mine the messenger rna mrna expression of biotransfor- mation enzymes--cytochromes p450 cyps in the liver for comparison with specific pathogen-free spf mice.materials and methodschemicalsprotease inhibitor cocktail tablets edta free complete protease inhibitor cocktail tablets were supplied by rocheprague roche cz.

.animals and experimental designfour groups of inbred balbc mice were used in our ex- periments gf l. plantarumnizo2877-monocolonizede.

the gf mice were born and housed under sterile conditions in trexler-type plastic iso- lators and fed a 50 kgy irradiated sterile pellet diet altromin 1410 altromin lage germany and sterile wa- ter ad libitum.

