this group consists of four species c. terrigena c. testosteroni c. denitrificans c. nitrativorans.

we report a case of gastroenteritis caused by this organism in a 65-year-old female with colostomy in situ.c 2017 the authorspublished by s. karger ag baselintroductioncomamonas belong to the genus comamonas family comamonadaceae which are be- taproteobacteria in the pseudomonas rrna homology group iii 1. comamonas testosteroni strains are capable of utilising testosterone 4-hydroxybenzoate acetate and lactate as their sole carbon sources but not glucose and most of the carbohydrates hence the name testos- teroni 2. comamonas species are aerobic gram-negative motile pink-pigmented oxidase- positive bacilli that grow well on routine bacteriological media.

we recommend that patients on colostomies be put on probiotic prophylaxis since such patients frequently have a history of bowel disturbances.acknowledgementthe authors are grateful to ms. shugufta akhtar laboratory technician for her work.statement of ethicsthe article was done according to the world medical association declaration of helsinki ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects.disclosure statementthe authors declare no conflict of interest.referenceslipuma j currie b peacock s vandamme p burkholderia stenotrophomonas ralstonia cupriavidus pandoraea brevundimonas comamonas delftia and acidovorax in jorgensen j pfaller m carroll k funke g landry m richter s warnock d eds manual of clinical microbiology vol 43 ed 11. washington dc asm press 2015 pp 791-812.liu l zhu w cao z xu b wang g luo m high correlation between genotypes and phenotypes of environmental bacteria comamonas testosteroni strains.

shaika farooq department of microbiology government medical college srinagar indiae-mail virulence and occasionally cause human disease 3. c. testosteroni can be found in intrave- nous catheters the respiratory tract the abdomen and urinary system and the central ner- vous system 4. here we present a case of c. testosteroni-associated bout of passage of fresh blood through a colostomy site.case reporta 65-year-old female with a 4-year history of colostomy was admitted to the emergency department of our tertiary care hospital with a bout of passage of fresh blood through the colostomy site.

biliary secre- tions are rich in fatty acids and theoretically c. testosteroni can thrive in the bile-rich envi- ronment of the gall bladder an assumption that could be investigated.this is a rare incidence of c. testosteroni being a predominant organism in primary stoolculture in an elderly women with colostomy in situ.

the high genetic pliability of comamonas species as well as their inherent ability as an environmental patho- gen to survive in various ecological niches make it a formidable candidate to cause mild but persistent infections especially in individuals with predisposing conditions.

comamonas being one of them.

bmc genomics 201516110.bayhan gi tanir g karaman i ozkan s comamonas testosteroni an unusual bacteria associated with acute appendicitis.

balkan med j 201330447-448.altun e kaya b taktakoglu o karaer r paydas s balal m seyrek n comamonas testosteroni peritonitis secondary to dislocated intrauterine device and laparoscopic intervention in a continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patient.

washington dc asm press 1998 pp 90-94.reddy ak murthy si jalali s gopinathan u post-operative endophthalmitis due to an unusual pathogen comamonas testosteroni.

j med microbiol 200958374-375.arda b aydemir s yamazhan t hassan a tunger a serter d comamonas testosteroni meningitis in a patient with recurrent cholesteatoma.

apmis 2003111474-476.ma yf zhang y zhang jy chen dw zhu y zheng h wang sy jiang cy zhao gp liu sj the complete genome of comamonas testosteroni reveals its genetic adaptations to changing environments.

appl environ microbiol 2009756812-6819.opota o ney b zanetti g jaton k greub g prod'hom g bacteremia caused by comamonas kerstersii in a patient with diverticulosis.

gnb 280. the stool cul- ture report was positive for c. testosteroni with 99 probability.

7 reported a case of c. testosteroni meningitis in a patient with recurrent cholesteatoma.

