therefore complete engraftment successful and sustained trans- fer of donor communities may not be essential for the success of fmt in resolving cdi but is likely nec- essary for rapid reestablishment of gut microbial com- munity structure and function.a preliminary feasibility study recently showed that orally-administered capsules containing frozen donor material which we term capsule fmt resulted in resolution of rcdi in 70 of patients after an initial course and 90 after follow-up courses among patients who relapsed.the authors noted that the time to resolution of symptoms by capsule fmt was significantly longer than that observed for administra- tion via colonoscopy or nasogastric tube fmt p d 0.03. the authors also suggested that although further validation was necessary capsule fmt mayrepresent a more cost-effective less-invasive treatment of rcdi.

similarly samples collected 1 to 3 weeks post-fmt were not significantly differentiated by clin- ical outcome by either analysis p d 0.062 and 0.091. among the cured patients the days and weeks time points were significantly different p  0.012 while this was not the case for patients who showed recurrence p 0.542. fecal microbiota in samples collected 1 to 2 months post-fmt were significantly differentiated from those obtained from patients who showed recurrence p  0.006 but were similar to samples taken from cured patients after one week post-fmt or samples collected 2 months post-fmt p 0.127. microbiota in samples collected 2 months post-fmt showed significant differences in b diversity from the donor pre-fmt and recurrent patient samples collected within days p  0.034.engraftment of donor communitiesdonor engraftment measured as the percent of the community attributable to donor otus using source- trackerwas positively correlated with time num- ber of days post-fmt  spearman's r d 0.547 p  0.0001. prior to fmt samples showed lowfigure 2. principal coordinate analysis of bray-curtis dissimilarity matrices constructed from otu tables of donor and patient samples r2 d 0.341.similarity to donor communities 22.6 ss 4.4 and the proportion of donor-attributable microbiota in these samples relative to those of patients who had recurrence of infection was not significantly different by post-hoc test p d 0.599 and 0.480 for days and weeks respectively.

donor similarity in samples from cured patients at any time post-fmt as measured by sourcetracker was significantly greater than pre- fmt samples p  0.006. in addition samples from cured patients taken at least one week post-fmt showed significantly greater donor similarity than that observed in samples from patients who had recurrence p  0.050. among cured patients the percentage of donor similarity among microbiota was signi cantly greater after at least one month post-fmt than that observed within days p  0.016 but was similar to that observed after a week p 0.207.the small proportion of the microbial community attributable to donors in pre-fmt samples was com- prised primarily of the genera escherichiashigella bacteroides and akkermansia .

based on the range of days post-fmt on which samples were collected and observed pat- terns in the microbiota samples were grouped as follows pre-fmt - before receiving capsule fmt days - 1 to 7 d following fmt weeks - 7 to 21 d following fmt months - 22 to 60 d following fmt and longer-term - 61c days following fmt.dna extraction and sequencingdna was extracted from 250-300 mg of fecal samples using the mobio powersoilr dna isolation kit mobio laboratories inc. carlsbad ca usa according to the manufacturer's instructions.

the efficacy of using frozen and thawed donor material has been shown to resolve rcdi symp- tomsand was recently shown to be similar in effec- tiveness to fresh donor material in a rctwith cure rates  92. furthermore fmt administered orally using frozen encapsulated donor material has shown similar results to other methods of administration.characterization of the gut microbiome of pre-fmt rcdi patients has consistently revealed in multiplecontact christopher staleybiotechnology institute university of minnesota 140 gortner lab 1479 gortner ave saint paul mn 55108.color versions of one or more of the figures in the article can be found online at .supplemental data for this article can be accessed on the .ythese authors contributed equally to the work.c 2017 taylor  francisstudies reduced relative abundances of taxa within the bacteroidetes and firmicutes concurrent with increased relative abundances of enterobacteriaceae and bacilli relative to healthy individuals.following fmt the abundances of several prominent genera increase including bacteroides as well as blautia coprococcus faecalibacterium papillibacter and roseburia in the class clostridia firmicutes similar to what is seen in healthy donors.concurrently the relative abundances of enterobacteriaceae including enterobacter escheri- chia and raoultella as well as lactobacillus and veillo- nella decrease following fmt.

interestingly after colonoscopic fmt the gut microbiome of patients resembled that of the donor inoculum within a day after which the patient microbial communities fluctu- ated in their composition likely reflective of the normal dynamic behavior of gut microbiota.the mechanisms of success of fmt are beginning to be elucidatedand in addition to restoring gut microbial ecology several studies have shown a direct association between success of fmt and the restora- tion of normal bile acid metabolism in the colon.

this was done to account for dif- ferences in the timing and amounts of samples and time periods during which samples were collected.effect of prior fmt on diversitysamples were initially evaluated to determine if differen- ces in clinical outcome cure resolution of diarrheal symptoms andor c.-difficile-toxin negative for 2 months or recurrence symptoms recurred and toxin detected or prior colonoscopic fmt affected communi- ties characterized at time points following fmt table s1.

moreover since a small propor- tion of microbiota were attributed to donors before fmt genera were further investigated among post- fmt samples from cured patients and those collected 1 month post-fmt.

fur- thermore while the microbiome of capsule fmt patients showed significant incremental shifts in com- munity composition particularly between the days and weeks following fmt it eventually had a donor- like structure at one month followed by divergence from donors in longer-term samples.

the seemingly incremental shift in community composition among time points following capsule fmt may be related to the slower resolution of symp- toms observed in the previous feasibility study.the microbiome of patients in the days following fmt remained somewhat dysbiotic with elevated relative abundances of enterobacteriaceae and verrucomicro- biaceae and was not indicative of clinical outcome at this stage.

however only samples col- lected from patients who experienced recurrence within 2 months of fmt were considered members of a recurrence group for microbiota analyses.due to the uneven nature of sample collection and collection of longer-term samples from patients who eventually experienced recurrence samples were grouped for analysis by the time period in which they were collected.

3 276-288research paperreportcommunity dynamics drive punctuated engraftment of the fecal microbiome following transplantation using freeze-dried encapsulated fecal microbiotachristopher staley byron p. vaughn carolyn t. graiziger stephanie singroy matthew j. hamiltondan yao chi chen alexander khorutsy and michael j. sadowskyyabiotechnology institute university of minnesota st. paul minnesota usa bdivision of gastroenterology department of medicine university of minnesota minneapolis minnesota usa cdepartment of food science and nutrition university of minnesota st. paul minnesota usa ddepartment of soil water and climate university of minnesota st. paul minnesota usaarticle historyreceived 17 october 2016 revised 7 february 2017 accepted 16 february 2017keywordscapsule-delivered fmt clostridium difficile cure fecal microbial transplantation 16s rrna next-generation sequencing microbial community structurebackgroundfecal microbiota transplantation fmt is an effective alternative method to treat recurrent clostridium diffi- cile infection rcdiwhich is now incorporated into standard treatment guidelines in both the united states and europe.

however investigation into the mechanisms of success of capsule fmt was not pursued and shifts in the microbiome following capsule fmt were not examined.

we hypothesized that bacterial commu- nity shifts associated with fmt using capsule-admin- istered fecal microbiota would result in potentially slower more gradual shifts in community composi- tion since time to resolution of symptoms was previ- ously observed to take longer in the initial feasibility study.bacterial communities however were antici- pated to resemble donor communities similar to stan- dard fmt after the first week post-treatment and maintain levels of engraftment over time.

sampleswere grouped as i pre-fmt ii days following fmtiii weeks following fmt iv months following fmt and v longer-term samples described more thor- oughly in methods.

