results shed light on the culturable cutaneous microbiome of snakes and probiotic members that may play a role in fighting an emergent disease.keywords dermatophytic fungi wildlife disease emerging fungal pathogens cutaneous microbiome introductionelectronic supplementary material the online version of this article   contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users.correspondence to aubree j. hill e-mail anthropogenic effects such as habitat fragmentation and climate change have been linked with an increase in newly emerging fungal pathogens contributing to significant pop- ulation declines in a broad diversity of wildlife pechmann and wilbur  lips  daszak et al.

the sections were also stained with periodic acid-schiff pas reaction or grocott's methenamine silver gms staining to look for fungal hyphae.in an attempt to isolate oo in culture scale clips and swabs from the timber rattlesnake and a piece of retained spectacle taken at necropsy from the black racer were plated on fungal culture plates containing sabouraud dextrose agar sda and incubated at 30degc.

finally to determine whe- ther a correlation existed between fungal load and the culturable microbiome in snakes that tested positive for oo fungal load was measured by plotting qpcr exponential amplification curves of swab samples against a standard curve using roche lightcycler 480 software ver.

from the timber rattlesnake samples tr087 multiple fungal co- lonies grew but swabs of these colonies tested negative for oo and genotypes of these fungal isolates were not iden- tified.

c 2017 ecohealth allianceoriginal contributioncommon cutaneous bacteria isolated from snakes inhibit growth of ophidiomyces ophiodiicolaaubree j. hill1 jacob e. leys1 danny bryan2 fantasia m. erdman1 katherine s. malone1 gabrielle n. russell1 roger d. applegate13 heather fenton47 kevin niedringhaus4 andrew n. miller5 matthew c. allender6 and donald m. walker11department of biology tennessee technological university 1100 north dixie avenue box 5063 cookeville tn 385052biology department cumberland university lebanon tn3tennessee wildlife resources agency nashville tn4southeastern cooperative wildlife disease study college of veterinary medicine university of georgia athens ga5illinois natural history survey university of illinois at urbana-champaign champaign il6wildlife epidemiology laboratory college of veterinary medicine university of illinois at urbana-champaign champaign il7present address environment and natural resources wildlife division government of the northwest territories yellowknife nt canadaabstract there is increasing concern regarding potential impacts of snake fungal disease sfd caused by ophidiomyces ophiodiicola oo on free-ranging snake populations in the eastern usa.

fifty-eight bacterial and five fungal strains were isolated from skin swabs and identified with sanger sequencing.

recently there are increasing concerns regarding potential popula- tion-level impacts of an emerging mycotic infection known as snake fungal disease sfd clark et al.

pare' and sigler  highlight the importance of genotype-based identification of fungal iso- lates alongside culture-based and pathological techniques in order to properly diagnose sfd.the cutaneous microbiome is known to serve as the first line of pathogen defense in a diverse range of verte- brate species harris et al.

the first swab was stored in a sterile dry 2-ml tube for later extraction of total genomic dna and the second swab was stored in a sterile 20 glycerol tube for later bacterial and fungal isolation.

when visible fungal hyphae grew they were isolated onto sec- ondary pda plates and grown for 2-5 days for dna extraction.

fungal species identification was accomplished using the unite ver.

plates were incubated under ambient conditions and 24-h fluorescent light for 6 days and zones of fungal inhibition recorded.

dna was extracted from samples of the fungal cultures using a commercial tissue extraction kit according to manufacturer's directions and a qpcr assay described in allender et al.

1.5 and a relate non-parametric mantel test analysis was con- ducted in primer 7. the jaccard-transformed operational taxonomic units otu matrix and fungal load matrix square root-transformed data were compared for this correlation analysis.

resultssnake cutaneous microbiomewe obtained a total of 58 bacterial and five fungal isolates from the 12 host snakes supplementary tables 1 and 2. host species possessed several microbial associations in common including strains of bacillus flexus family enterobacteriaceae and stenotrophomonas spp.

