the percentage of otus shared between pa and fl bacterial communities in the actinobacteriafigure 4. calculated mntd a and the standardized-effect sizes of mntd ses.mntd b of the fl and pa bacterial communities.table 2. mantel and partial mantel tests for the correlations between phylogenetic distance ses.betamntd unifrac betamntd and the explanatory distances geographic and environmental distance using spearman's rho for the fl and pa bacterial communities.- 0.31290.0512phylum was 48.3. actinobacteria otus specific to the pa bac- terial community were about three times higher than for the fl bacterial community table s3 supporting information.

environmental distance had no significant correlations with unifrac or betamntd forthe pa bacterial community after controlling for geographic dis- tance table .discussiona higher diversity of pa and significant differences in the community composition of fl and pa bacterial groupsone of the main objectives of our study was to determine whether fl and pa bacterial communities differed in diversity and composition.

the structure of fl and pa bacterial communities was also observed to be similar in turbid estuarine ecosystems noble bidle and fletcher  hollibaugh wong and murrell  and freshwater mesocosms riemann and winding .due to the availability of a greater amount of substrate pa bacteria are often more active than the fl bacteria grossart et al.

therefore the biogeograph- ical pattern of the fl bacterial group is much less distinct than that of the pa bacterial community.previous studies have discussed the influence of environ- mental factors on fl and pa bacterial communities lapoussiere et al.

particulate environmental factors including tss pn and pp may maintain more important effects on the differenti- ation of the pa bacterial community from the fl bacterial com- munity.assembly processes for both pa and fl bacterial communitiesour results indicate that environmental factors significantly in- fluence the community composition of both fl and pa bacte- rial groups.

the aggregated particles found in the shallow turbid conditions of taihu lake have more suitable microhabitats for the pa bacterial community in biogeochemical processes which leads to much higher growth rates for the pa compared with the fl bacterial community in the surrounding waters long and azam  grossart et al.

6suggested that fl bacteria are primarily driven by deterministic environmental factors whereas the pa bacterial community is more geographically heterogeneous compared to the fl bacte- rial community.in our study the community composition of both the fl and pa bacterial groups was strongly associated with environmen- tal factors fig.

a comparison of particle- attached pa communities with fl communities can provide a better understanding of exchanges between the two bacterial communities and shed light on their important ecological and functional processes tang et al.

.in recent decades studies of fl and pa bacterial com- munities have mainly focused on marine ecosystems zhang et al.

diversity was often found to be higher in pa relative to the fl bacterial groups crespo et al.

whether pa bacterial communities are distinct from fl bacterial communities in large and shallow eutrophic lake ecosystems remains uncertain.recently the balance between stochastic and deterministic processes has become a dominant theme in microbial ecology diniandreote et al.

the re- sults of the physicochemical analysis of the water samples col- lected from the sampling sites are shown in table s1 supporting information.dna extraction pcr amplification and pyrosequencingthe extraction and purification of fl and pa bacterial dna fol- lowed the procedures of wu et al.

com- pared to fl bacteria the pa bacteria are often larger in size thereby influencing their dispersal ability martiny et al.

tel 86 25 83787891 fax 86 25 83787891 e-mail these authors contributed equally to this work.one sentence summary comparisons between free-living and particle-attached bacterial communities in diversity their relationships with environmental factors and the assembly processes were investigated in this paper.editor cindy nakatsuabstractalthough previous studies have compared the diversity and community composition of free-living fl and particle-attached pa bacterial groups in marine ecosystems few studies have focused on the fl and pa bacterial communities in large and shallow eutrophic lakes.

a higher diversity of the pa bacterial group than that of the fl group was observed and significant differences in bacterial community composition between fl and pa groups were found analysis of similarity r  0.2425 p  0.001. moreover the two groups exhibited different relationships with environmental factors and geographic distance.

