particularly they address the following questions 1 are soil bacteria able to sense vocs produced by microbial eukaryotes and modify their behaviors in response to them 2 what is the effect of those vocs on bacterial fitness and survival 3 does the nutritional status mattersby using gc-q-tof analysis schmidt et al.

 department of plant microbe interactions max planck institute for plant breeding research cologne germanykeywords microbial interactions microbiome volatile organic compounds soil microbiologya commentary onby schmidt r. etalo d. w. de jager v. gerards s. zweers h. de boer w. et al.

2015. microbial vocs were mainly studied from the bacterial point of view acting as infochemical molecules in soil or protecting plants against pathogenic fungi and oomycetes garbeva et al.

this result suggests that vocs production by soil filamentous microbes is tightly controlled in time and in space according to soil nutritional constraints.

r 75 583. doi garbeva p. hordijk c. gerards s. and de boer w. 2014. volatile-mediated interactions between phylogenetically different soil bacteria.

although different degrees of specificity have been observed spanning along the mutualism-antagonism continuum the molecular basis governing fungal-bacterial interactions remains poorly understood.recent evidence indicates that low molecular weight metabolites such as volatile organic compounds vocs can be produced by taxonomically diverse groups of microorganisms and play important roles for long distance microbe-microbe interactions effmert et al.

2015 sharifi and ryu 2016 vocs produced by fungioomycetes can be in turn sensed by bacteria therefore modulating their ability to move figure 1. these results shed new lights into one possible mechanism used by particular soil and rhizospheric fungioomycetes to attract or repel bacterial neighbors under specific nutritional conditions.

since motility is an important trait of the bacterial root microbiota van overbeek and saikkonen 2016 it would be interesting to test whether particular rhizospheric fungi can alter endosphere colonization by specific bacteria taxa via long distance vocs emission at the rootsoil interface.interestingly schmidt and collaborators also found that the soil fungus f. culmorum affects differently swimming motility of c. pratensis reduction and s. plymuthica induction likelydue to the production of a unique terpene blend.

they found that microbial vocs emitted by particular fungioomycetes strongly affect motility of two bacterial isolates collimonas pratensis and serratia plymuthica while the other traits remain unaltered.

2012. volatile mediated interactions between bacteria and fungi in the soil.

since organic carbon is the most important factor limiting microbial growth in soil demoling et al.

their work is an open eye illustrating the complexity of the soil volatilome and its potential importance for structuring microbial communities in nature figure 1.fundingthe max planck society and the european research council.author contributionsthe author confirms being the sole contributor of this work and approved it for publication.referencescordovez v. carrion v. j. etalo d. w. mumm r. zhu h. van wezelg.

2014. impact of interspecific interactions on antimicrobial van overbeek l. s. and saikkonen k. 2016. impact of bacterial-fungal interactions on the colonization of the endosphere.

2015. however still very little is known regarding the chemical diversity of vocs produced by filamentous microbes fungi and oomycetes as well as their ecological role for fungal-bacterial interactions.

volatile affairs in microbial interactions.

