we propose that gut commensal microbiota play a role as a trigger of autoimmune uveitis and discuss potential therapeutic approaches for uveitis with our current knowledge.human microbiome and autoimmune diseaseshuman body is inhabited by a diverse microbial community and the dynamic crosstalk between the host and the micro- biota is important in maintaining homeostasis in health and disease .

although a role for gut commensals in animal models of autoimmune uveitis has been strongly supported it is not known to what extent dysbiosis in the gut might affect human uveitic disease.it is important to identify the putative microbial mimics in the commensal flora not only from mice but also in human microbiota.

4 291-293editorialcommensal microbiota as a potential trigger of autoimmune uveitisreiko horai h. nida and rachel r. caspilaboratory of immunology national eye institute national institutes of health bethesda md usaarticle history received 10 november 2016 accepted 25 january 2017keywords autoimmune uveitis autoreactive t cells commensal microbiota gut immune privilege retinaintroductionuveitis encompasses inflammatory diseases of the uveal tract and is responsible for 10-15 of severe visual handicap in the western world .

using a spontaneous autoimmune uveitis model developed in our laboratory we demonstrated that retina-specific t cells receive an activation signal in the gut from commensal microbiota-derived antigens and trigger autoimmune uveitis .

a larger study to characterize the gut microbiome in different types of uveitis is currently underway.animal studies on microbiota and uveitisa causal role for the microbiome in autoimmune disease in animal models is now well established.

importantly new unpublished data presented at conferences are beginning to support the notion that human microbiota can promote development of pathology in animal models of the corre- sponding disease validating the critical role of these models to study effects of the human microbiome.as the first gut microbiome study in human uveitis our preliminary data from a small cohort of chronic autoim- mune posterior segment uveitis patients whose disease was controlled by treatment indicated a changed microbial composition between uveitis and healthy controls.

these results also highlight the notion that uveitis is a heterogeneous disease with potentially different environmental immunologic and genetic influencing factors.thus alterations of commensal communities may contribute to disease by a combination of adaptive and innate pathways including microbial mimics of autoantigens innate microbial stimuli loss of microbiota that produce 'anti-inflammatory' metabolites such as short chain fatty acids  andor by emergence of pathogenic bacteria which may disrupt intestinal barrier and stimulate production of inflammatory mediators.future directions and potential therapeutic strategiesthe hmp and european metagenomics of the human intestinal tract project characterized the composition diver- sity and functionality of the healthy gut microbiome and clinical studies have shown associations of taxonomic abun- dance with some clinical phenotypes.

573747-3758.in support of the contribution of gut microbiota to the devel- opment of spontaneous uveitis in ref5 the requirement of gut microbiota was confirmed in the immunization-induced eau model.

clinical studies increasingly support a contributory role of changes in commensal gut microbiota dysbiosis to humanautoimmune diseases including rheumatoid arthritis ra spondyloarthritides lupus diabetes inflammatory bowel dis- ease ibd and multiple sclerosis ms and have started unra- veling associations between the relative abundance of several bacterial taxa and autoimmune diseases.

does the microbiota play a role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases gut.

gut microbial alterations associated with protection from autoimmune uveitis.

expert review of clinical immunologyissn 1744-666x print 1744-8409 online journal homepage commensal microbiota as a potential trigger of autoimmune uveitisreiko horai h. nida sen  rachel r. caspito cite this article reiko horai h. nida sen  rachel r. caspi 2017 commensal microbiota as a potential trigger of autoimmune uveitis expert review of clinical immunology 134 291-293 doi 10.10801744666x.2017.1288098to link to this article accepted author version posted online 01 feb 2017. published online 15 feb 2017.article views 1023view crossmark datafull terms  conditions of access and use can be found at expert review of clinical immunology 2017 vol.

horai et al.diabetes  and autoimmune uveitis the latter in two differ- ent models i spontaneous uveitis in r161h mice that express a transgenic t cell receptor tcr for the interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein irbp a target autoantigen in autoimmune uveitis  and ii the 'classic' uveitis model involving active immunization with irbp in complete freund's adjuvant .

our under- standing of the etiology of disease its driving mechanisms and treatment options remain limited although anecdotal evidence has linked flares of autoimmune uveitis to microbial infections in some cases .

thus antigenic mimicry by commensals may be a more frequent trigger of autoimmune disease than was hitherto appreciated.importantly commensal microbes may also affect pro- gression of uveitis once induced.

