when compared to the other diet groups mice on the gp-spi diet had lower body weight and adiposity though the food intake was similar across the groups .also mice on the gp-spi diet reduced markers of systemic inflammation as il-6 was unde- tectable and low levels of tnf-a and bacterial lipopolysaccharide was detected in the serum in comparison to the spi group.

8850. doi keywords gut microbiota polyphenols akkermansia diet obesitya commentary ondietary polyphenols promote growth of the gut bacterium akkermansia muciniphila and attenuate high-fat diet-induced metabolic syndromeby roopchand de carmody rn kuhn p moskal k rojas-silva p turnbaugh pj et al.

however levels of cholesterol triglycerides and il-1b in the serum were not significantly different from mice fed with the spi diet .so how did the gp-based diet impact the gastrointestinal tract just as observed in the serum lower expression of tnf-a and il-6 was detected in the colon.

glut2 a gene for glucose transport was also significantly lower in the jejunum tissue when compared to the mice on the spi-diet .grape polyphenol-based diet led to decreased ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes and significant increase in the relative abundance of akkermansia muciniphila in the cecal and fecal microbiota .

anti-obesity effect of capsaicin in mice fed with high-fat diet is associated with an increase in population of the gut bacterium akkermansia muciniphila.

cranberry extract-supplemented diet also led to a dramatic increase in akkermansia .

changesinthegutmicrobiotawithincreasein akkermansia were also observed .of what importance is akkermansia in the intestinal micro- biota and how does it influence diet-induced obesity and meta- bolic disorders a. muciniphila is a mucin degrading bacterium present in the mucus layer of the intestinal epithelium and may represent 3-5 of the gut microbiota in healthy adults .

research by roopchand and colleagues demonstrated that concord grape polyphenols gp led to changes in the gut microbiota and reduction in conditions associated with metabolic syndrome arising from high-fat diet hfd in mice .

however another study did not find a causal effect of firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio in relation to obesity .similarly the effects of dietary polyphenol from cranberry extract were evaluated in mice fed with high-fathigh-sucrose diet for 8 weeks .

recently it was shown that the introduction of capsaicin a dietary polyphenol led to an abundance of the genera akkermansia bacteroides and coprococcus in mice fed with hfd and a decrease in weight gain .

 microbiology and infection unit division of biomedical sciences warwick medical school university of warwick coventry united kingdomedited bystephen j. pandol cedars-sinai medical centerunited statesreviewed by francisco jose perez-cano university of barcelona spainmargarida castell university of barcelona spaincorrespondence blessing o. anonye specialty section this article was submitted to nutritional immunologya section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 08 april 2017accepted 05 july 2017published 27 july 2017citation anonye bo 2017 commentary dietary polyphenols promote growth of the gut bacterium akkermansia muciniphila and attenuate high-fat diet-induced metabolic syndrome.front.

fasting-induced adipose factor a circulating lipoprotein lipase inhibitor was significantly increased in the ileum compared to the spi diet .

furthermore a reduc- tion in body weight gain and insulin was observed in rats fed with a standard-chow diet supplemented with pterostilbene .

several studies have shown an increase in akkermansia in diet-induced obesity studies and correlates with the reduction of weight gain adiposity and improved glucose tolerance   .

potential mechanisms by which akkermansia influ- ences the host microbiota leading to these beneficial outcomes are depicted below .these and other studies suggest that dietary polyphenols play a role in the modulation of the gut microbiota that may favor positive outcomes.

