08044240. a total of 21 patients were recruited trial registration clinicaltrials.govnct01154257 june 14 2010  and after receipt of informed and written consent from patients or relatives complying with the mental capacity act 2005 these patients provided dental plaque nbl and ett samples for analyses.

of samplesdays of mv when collectedoral health statuspatients on 7 occasions forming pairs between dental plaque and nbls n  2 dental plaque and ett n  1 ett and nbl n  1 and grouping same site samples from different patients nbls n  2 and ett n  1. one cluster of 3 identical dental plaque samples p10 p14 p20 and a further 4 pairs of closely related samples from the same patient were apparent.

bacterial primers gagtttgatcntggctcag 28f and tgctgcctcccgtaggagt388r were used to generate multiple sequences of approximately 250 base pairs overlapping within the v4 region of the 16s rrna gene.table 1demographics of the 12 patients participating in this studythe initial reason for mv in 7 patients 5 8 10 14 21 24 25 was for a reduced conscious level and in the other 5 patients it was for respiratory failure as a result of pneumonia 3 20 27 or extrapulmonary sepsis 1 28. underlying cause of cardiac arrest in patient 8 was primary recurrent ventricular fibrillation postpartum normal angiogram and in patient 21 it was secondary to coronary artery disease.

alpha and beta in- dices were calculated from these datasets with mothur and r using the vegan package.resultsfrom the 12 participating patients 34 samples were obtained  with one dental plaque sample from each patient 12 etts from 10 patients and 10 nbls from 7 patients.

5. most abundant species detected in ett biofilms.dental plaque lower airway nbl and ett lumen from mechanically ventilated patients.

lewis  david w. williams a school of dentistry college of biomedical and life sciences cardiff university heath park cardiff united kingdomb university hospital of wales heath park cardiff united kingdomc school of biosciences college of biomedical and life sciences cardiff university park place cardiff united kingdomd centre for digestive and gut health imperial college london exhibition road london united kingdome dental school university of glasgow 378 sauchiehall st glasgow united kingdoma r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c t keywordsendotracheal tube biofilm dental plaque metataxonomics mechanical ventilationpurpose mechanically ventilated patients are at risk for developing ventilator-associated pneumonia and it has been reported that dental plaque provides a reservoir of respiratory pathogens that may aspirate to the lungs and endotracheal tube ett biofilms.

as such maintenance of good oral hygiene is likely to be highly important in limiting aspiration of bacteria in this vulnerable patient group.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionmechanical ventilation mv is an essential intervention in many critically ill patients and an endotracheal tube ett is a key interface in this process.

unfortunately patients receiving mv are at higher risk for nosocomial infection and of particular concern is ventilator- associated pneumonia vap .ventilator-associated pneumonia is the most prevalent hospital- acquired infection in critical care with an incidence of 9 to 24 in patients who are mechanically ventilated for longer than 48 hours .

microorganisms may also be drawn into the inner lumen of the ett where they grow as biofilms which may also serve as sources of vap-causing agents which are large- ly protected from host defense mechanisms .recent evidence has indicated that a microbial change may also occur in the dental plaque of mv patients .

should components of the oral microbiota contribute to the ett biofilm andor respiratory pathogens found to colonize the dental plaque further supporting evidence for maintaining high levels of oral hygiene in mv patients will have been provided.materials and methodscollection and processing of clinical specimensethical approval for collection of clinical samples was obtained from the research ethics committee for wales reference no.

inclusion criteria were that patients had to be older than 18 years had more than 20 teeth and anexpectation of mv with an ett for more than 24 hours.

dental plaque was obtained from all patients along with an nbl andor an ett when possible.

significantly in a recent study using real-time pcr analysis of samples from 120 patients with suspected vap these respiratory pathogens were also found to be the most prevalent in ett aspirates and bronchoalveolar lavages .

in addition it was evident that when all community profiles were compared for 4 patients p03 p24 p28 p27 the microbiome of either the ett or the nbl had the highest similarity to the dental plaque from the same patient.

for the first time metataxonomics was used to simultaneously characterize the microbiome of dental plaque etts and non-directed bronchial lavages nbls in mechanically ventilated pa- tients to determine similarities in respective microbial communities and therefore likely associations.material and methods bacterial 16s rrna gene sequences from 34 samples of dental plaque nbls and etts from 12 adult mechanically ventilated patients were analyzed.results no significant differences in the microbial communities of these samples were evident.

