2016. in this review the causality between the composition of the gut microbiota and its role in the pathogenesis of obesity and obesity-related metabolic disorders are critically described based on metagenome analysis of the microbiota microbe-microbe and microbiota-host interactions and the specific metabolites produced by microbiota and host musso et al.

the mechanisms that the gut microbiota has on metabolic homeostasis and immune responses are currently being unraveled o'hara and shanahan 2006. depending on the species and functional composition of the human gut microbiota the host can be classified as enterotypes species which represent a highly aggregated microbial community structure in multidimensional space arumugam et al.

2013. the life lines-deep project analyzed the relationship of the gut microbiota and 126 exogenous and intrinsic host factors including 60 dietary factors 18.7 of which was associated with the variation in human gut microbiota composition zhernakova et al.

it revealed a 14-genera core microbiota and sixty-nine covariates associated to microbiota variation falony et al.

the gut microbiota has been linked with a number of chronic diseases such as obesity diabetes and other metabolic diseases zhao 2013. as known obesity is an increasingly serious international health issue that can increase the risk of the insulin resistance and other metabolic syndromes frayling et al.

the results indicate that the gut microbiota can be mainly arranged as four enterotypes bacteroides prevotella rminococcus and firmicutes gill et al.

but the human gut microbiota can change rapidly for example within one day to cope with the drastic changes in diet and medical therapies as a result of disease intervention wu et al.

2011. a high-fat diet could promote changes in the gut microbiota composition as described with the replacement of the bacteroidetes enterotype by both firmicutes and proteobacteria hildebrandt et al.

understanding the roles of particular enterotypes and changes will be helpful to an intervention in the pathogenesis of obesity and related diseases and to personalize therapies.homestasis of gut microbiota-host interactionsthe diversity and specificity of human gut microbiota closely correlated to the host genotype diet and metabolites mediating this interaction nicholson et al.

the same result was also found in the gut microbiota transplanted experiment from four pairs of obese and lean human twins to germ-free mice respectivelyridaura et al.

the genes whose expression increased included a colonic goblet cell-specific gene relmb of the host and genes for bacterial chemotaxis and flagellar assembly in the gut microbiota hildebrandt et al.

2009. in the obese mice a high triglyceride-derived fatty acid intake was commonly accompanied with hyperexpression of the enzymes that digest polysaccharides and lipoproteins by the gut microbiota backhed et al.

thus n-acyl amides produced by gut microbiota could interact with gpr119 g-protein coupled receptor gpcr to regulate metabolic hormones and glucose homeostasis cohen et al.

2012. the mhc-ii-mediated protection from type i diabetes was significantly affected due to the destruction of gut microbiota homeostasis silverman et al.

these data suggest that the gut microbiota in the early stages of life may affect the formation of metabolic signaling pathways in the host cox et al.

