concerns regarding po- tential public panic and financial and other damages to the city that may be caused by sampling transportation systems may thereby detract city officials from approving microbiome surveys.however public officials should be made aware that sampling the transport system can help monitor and fight the spread of pathogenic microorganisms particu- larly during seasonal outbreaks and develop strategies that the public can adopt to improve travelers' health alleviate their concerns and promote the use of public transport.

20112520-1.agg j. how clean are your hands the answer may change how you wash. 2015. l. accessed 29 may 2017.world health organisation.

showed that individuals who supplied their microbiome from skin and stool samples as well as their genetic code could be identified with an 80 accur- acy based on their stool sample however the accuracy dropped to 30 when microbiome from other sites of the body was sampled such as skin and mouth this study and others indicate that it is potentially pos- sible to match an individual with their microbiome however the microbiome data are likely to be used in conjunction with other data such as dna profiles be- cause microbiome composition could be influenced by several factors such as cosmetics antibiotic use and general state of health another chief concern is that researchers will be able to infer information about the individual's health habits and lifestyle from their microbiome profile which may then be accessed by third parties.

in modern cities gaining infor- mation about microbial populations will enhance cities' efforts to improve public health we thereby sug- gest that microbiome studies will ultimately improve cit- ies' reputation via the public's perception of greater public health monitoring.research efforts targeted at the indoor environment where most people spend  90 of their time have sig- nificant potential to improve public health.

for instance sampling animals may put the investigator at risk for zoonotic disease transmission and wastewater is known to contain viable human path- ogens - in addition to sampling animals and wastewater taking samples from hospitals may result in exposure to antibiotic-resistant bacteria such as mrsa or pseudomonas aeruginosa yet the risk of actual infection exists mostly for immunocompromised people and not necessarily the scientists taking samples nonetheless to minimize the risk of exposure investiga- tors should adopt standard safety procedures such as not being in close proximity to potentially contaminated surfaces and animals.

similarly in europe 3.8 of general ward and 15.3 intensive care unit patients ac- quired at least one nosocomial infection during their visit in some cases patients are being advised to limit their hospital visits not only because the depart- ments are busy but because patients are at risk of contracting harmful infections - these issues have already shaped the image of healthcare facilities as incubators that facilitate the creation and spread of antibiotic-resistant superbugs and they are more acute in unhygienic institutions and those forced torelease sick patients due to overcrowded departments chiefly during seasonal outbreaks  even sinks for hand washing have been recognized in aiding the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacterial pathogens it is now widely accepted that surfaces such as door handles seats and even floors are contaminated and may facilitate the rapid acquisi- tion of antimicrobial resistance amr and transmis- sion of several pathogens such as mrsa vancomycin- resistant enterococci vre and norovirus -while microbiome hospital surveys may reinforce this image they are a crucial step to find a solution to this problem.

disruption in the gut micro- flora may cause irritable bowel disease ibd character- ized by a continuous inflammatory process in the gut even after the primary pathogen has been eradicated further investigations into how to stabilize and perhaps diversify our microenvironment may improve our quality of life bacteria are also notoriously associated with dirt dis- eases and a general state of uncleanliness and struggling with the poor public relations of bacteria can be ex- pected to hinder public microbiome initiatives at various levels.

2015. accessed 15 may 2017.callahan a. new type of baby monitors offers peace of mind but may deliver just the opposite.

for example the national institute for health and safety has a documentrecommending different types of masks based on the potential hazard and professional judgment disparaging cities and public sitessimilar to as discussed above the public's association be- tween microbiology and disease may result in a negative association for microbiome sampling sites.

the insights gained from this research may substantially alter our prior per- ceptions on microorganisms and their effect on our lives and health.

2013104274-305.moritz a. hospitals are a major health hazard natural news 2008. accessed 17 may 2017.hodgekiss a. antibiotic resistance could end modern medicine uk's chief doctor issues stark warning as study reveals most of us don't even know what term really means.

these studies have provided valuable insight about the amount and type of bacteria in our environment and their ecology source and effects on our health and behavior the vital contribution of microorganisms to our envir- onment and health calls for large-scale efforts to chart correspondence  daria shamarina and iana stoyantcheva are co-first authors.daria shamarina and iana stoyantcheva contributed equally to this work.

ra- cism and housing conditions are both associated with child health and with adult physical and mental health that poverty sanitation and infection go hand in hand have thereby contributed to the stigmatization of sensitive populations.

we also discuss how technological advances may change these assessments and provide recommendations for public engagement in future studies.

it follows that there is a well-placed concern that investigating the microbiome of a location may lead to its association with disease to the detriment of its residents.

