however only 128 of the 220 orthologous genes could be reliably annotated as essential against the deg database  whereas the remaining 92 accessory genes still coded for basic metabolic functions.pangenome analysis of the 27 novosphingobium strains  identified 21915 nonredundant nonrepetitive genes in the pangenome out of 128647 total genes.

examining the available genomes of ecologically diverse bacterial species and analyzing the habitat-specific genes are useful for understanding the distribution and evolution of functional and phylogenetic diversity in the genus novosphingobium.keywords novosphingobium core genome habitat-specific genes pangenome regulatory hubshe genus novosphingobium represents metabolically versatile members that be- long to the class alphaproteobacteria and family sphingomonadaceae .

these habitat-specific genes were annotated against the kaas server  but only 211 rhizospheric 125 contaminated soil 54 marine and 150 freshwater genes could be annotated with a kegg orthology ko identifier.

freshwater- specific gene content contain genes encoding components involved in alanine aspar- tate and glutamate metabolism and marine water-specific gene content contain genes encoding components involved in the bacterial chemotactic regulatory pathway which could be involved in nutrient acquisition in this normally oligotrophic environment.

ani whole genome based and 400 conserved bacterial marker genes could be due to the inclusion of pangenomic content in the case of the whole genome ani rather than the conserved marker genes.

the analysis revealed that the genes encoding pah and components involved in xenobiotic degradation were enriched in novosphingobium strains  among which freshwater strains showed similarity in genes encoding mono- and dioxygenases with very similar metabolic profiles while strains from the other three habitats clustered separately and .

pp1y showed the greatest number of genes coding for mono- and dioxy- genases 114 genes .

if the gene is present the number of genes is shown.table 2 continued1111111121211111111table 2 continued1111111111pound degradation and abundance of mono- and dioxygenase genes across all strains in all habitats suggest that novosphingobium represents an untapped resource for the field of biotechnology.

further the presence of essential genes in the orthologs was identified using the database of essential genes deg version 13.3 .

the genome completeness was estimated by analyzing the presence of 107 essential copy genes using the comprehensive microbial resource as a database where 107 hidden markov models hmms of essential copy genes were analyzed in all of the novosphingobium strains .pangenomic and core genomic trend analysis.

.luo h lin y gao f zhang ct zhang r. 2014. deg 10 an update of the database of essential genes that includes both protein-coding genes and noncoding genomic elements.

research articleecological and evolutionary sciencecomparative genomic analysis reveals habitat-specific genes and regulatory hubs within the genus novosphingobiumroshan kumara helianthous vermaa shazia haiderb abhay bajaja utkarsh sooda kalaiarasan ponnusamyc shekhar nagaramallikarjun n. shakarada ram krishan negia yogendra singha j. p. khuranad jack a. gilbertefg rup laladepartment of zoology university of delhi delhi indiaa school of computational and integrative sciences jawaharlal nehru university new delhi indiab synthetic biology laboratory school of biotechnology jawaharlal nehru university new delhi indiac interdisciplinary centre for plant genomics and department of plant molecular biology university of delhi south campus new delhi indiad the microbiome center argonne national laboratory argonne illinois usae department of surgery the microbiome center university of chicago chicago illinois usaf the microbiome center marine biological laboratory woods hole massachusetts usagabstract species belonging to the genus novosphingobium are found in many different habitats and have been identified as metabolically versatile.

through com- parative genomic analysis we identified habitat-specific genes and regulatory hubs that could determine habitat selection for novosphingobium spp.

using core genome analysis the enrichment of a certain set of genes specific to a particular habitat was determined which provided insights on the influence of habitat on the distribution of metabolic traits in novosphingo-mayjune 2017 volume 2 issue 3 e00020-17msystems.asm.org 1bium strains.

previous studies have investigated novosphingobium strains for their bioremediation capacity  nutrient cycling   taxonomic characterization   analysis of extracellular products  mutagenesis experiments on certain genes or gene clusters  disease conditions   and application innanoparticle formation for antibacterial activity .many novosphingobium genomes are now available in public repositories e.g.

