commonly for all primer pairs 59 bacterial features from phylum to species level were found to differ between the uncontaminated bulk soil tnt- contaminated bulk soil and non-contaminated rhizosphere samples at an lda of 2 p  0.05. supplementary figure 8 shows the most significant features with lda scores of 3.5 or higher with acidobacteriaceaesubgroup3 acidobacteriales gammaproteobacteria mizugakiibacter and rhodanobacter enriched in the tnt-contaminated bulk soil whereas nitrospira pedomicrobium and many uncultured bacteria belonging to other acidobacterial groups were significantly enriched in the non-contaminated bulk soil and clostridia clostridiales and firmicutes were more enriched in the rhizosphere soils.

this suggests the high utility of primer pair 341f785r for soil and plant-associated bacterial microbiome studies.keywords pyrosequencing 16s rrna gene sequence primers microbial communities soil explosives contaminationintroductionhigh-throughput amplicon sequencing of taxonomic marker genes has become a widely used technique to obtain information on the microbial community composition diversity and richness at high resolution in diverse environmental samples caporaso et al.

soil bacterial communities have therefore been the subject of bioremediation studies aiming to optimize bacterial community function for accelerating biodegradation and soil remediation yang et al.

the tnt-contaminated soil had an average ph of 6.1 moisture content of 66.2 conductivity of 340 us per cm cation exchange capacity of 9.2 meq per 100 g dry weight using the ammonium acetate method at ph 7 chapman1965 and 3.1 mg organic labile carbon per kg dry weight soil measured using the permanganate oxidation method culman et al.

previously primer pair 68f518r was used to amplify iron-oxidizing zetaproteobacteria in soil but it has not been extensively validated as a primer for soil microbial community characterization mcallister et al.

primer pair 341f785r detected an enrichment in the tnt- polluted soil of xanthomonadaceae gammaproteobacteria bradyrhizobiaceae caulobacteracae and alphaicluster of the rhizobiales alphaproteobacteria and chitinophagaceae bacteroidetes suggesting these taxa are quite tolerant to high tnt-concentrations 5. a higher prevalence of gamma- and alpha-proteobacteria has been reported in a hydrocarbon contaminated soil yergeau et al.

with respect to tnt-contaminated soil some of the groups detected in this study are in agreement with the results from clone libraries and dgge-analyses of tnt-contaminated soil in the uk travis et al.

the primer pairs were tested empirically on a 246- trinitrotoluene tnt-contaminated soil a non-contaminated forest bulk soil and acer pseudoplatanus rhizosphere soil habitats known to harbor diverse sets of bacteria.

additionally tnt was found to significantly alter soil bacterial community structure and change the relative abundance of several otus.materials and methodsstudy site and soil samplingsoil samples were collected from a military tnt-production facility in zwijndrecht belgium 5111'40.0''n 419'29.6''e on july 8th 2013. the soil was a loamy sand with a moderately thick litter layer and humus with undecomposed and partly degraded organic matter.

the concentration of explosives in the contaminated soil was on average 48835 mg tnt per kg dw soil 190 mg 135-trinitrobenzene 73 mg nitrobenzene 1267 mgaminodinitrotoluene and 182 mg dinitrotoluene per kg dw soil.

primer pair 341f785r detected a significant lower taxon richness in the tnt-contaminated bulk soil samples 565 - 12 compared to the non-contaminated bulk soil 622 - 5 and rhizosphere samples 641 - 14 while the other primer pairs detected only a decreasing trend supplementary table 3. on the other hand primer pair 967f1391r detected a significantly higher number of otus in the rhizosphere 456 - 4 compared to the bulk soil 427 - 17 while no statistical difference was observed for primer pairs 341f785r and 799f1193r and a significant decrease with 68f518r.phylum-level taxonomic distributionall four primer pairs detected a different number of phyla and class level taxa.

besides primer 68f518r the heatmap also showed that the tnt-contaminated soil samples clustered in a separate group from the non-contaminated bulk soil and rhizosphere sampleswith 75 jackknife support while the non-contaminated bulk soil and rhizosphere communities could not be significantly discriminated from each other npmanova p  0.26.family and genus-level pcr biasthe relative abundance of the 10 most abundant families detected differed between the primer pairs figure 3b.

the relative abundance bar charts show the 12 most dominant phyla and proteobacteria classes a and seven most dominant families b per primer pair and soil type based on pyrosequencing data of bulk soil and acer pseudoplatanus rhizosphere soil samples zwijndrecht belgium.

we showed that primer pair 341f785r performed well on 3 different soil types including explosives contaminated soil samples non-contaminated humus-rich forest soil samples and sycamore rhizosphere samples.

thethe silva ssu non-redundant database release 123 was used for the analyses which contains 597607 bacterial sequences.tnt-polluted soil harbored a bacterial community that shifted toward a higher relative abundance of the gammaproteobacteria lda  4.5 p  0.05 compared to the non-contaminated bulk soil supplementary figure 8. although different primer pairs indicated different dominant otus a few bacterial groups were commonly identified as more abundant in the tnt- contaminated bulk soil including acidobacteriasubgroup1 acidobacteriales mizugakiibacter and rhodanobacter.

