in addition the criteria to define extreme or unusual samples subjects or both need to be further explored.the inter-individual diversity b-diversity for 30 subjects 720 samples was computed by using weighted unifrac distances and visualized in  using emperor .

the taxonomic classifica- tion of the quality-processed reads was based on the closed reference clustering of sequences into operational taxonomical units otus using the uclust tool  with a sequence iden- tity level of 97. the read clusters were further assigned to taxonomies by using the ribosomal database project rdp classifier  with a confidence level of 80. the bacterial commu- nity diversity within a sample a-diversity was assessed by using the r-package vegan  .

prior to the influenza season during that year 26 subjects received the intramuscular influenza vaccine flu shot 19 subjects received the intranasal influenza vaccine flu mist and 5 subjects were not immunized .

after demultiplexing sff files raw reads were filtered to ensure read qual- ity by using the following steps terminal trimming to remove n from the 30-end of the raw reads removal of reads smaller than 200 bases or larger than 1000 bases removal of reads with a homopolymer eight bases or longer removal of reads with more than one error in the 16s primer 539r sequence read trimming to remove primer and linker sequences and sliding- window trimming with a window width of 50 bases to remove terminal sequences within the window with an average quality score below 25. chimera filtering was subsequently per- formed using the uchime algorithm by either the reference-based or de novo method .

the taxonomic classification of the quality-processed reads was based on the closed reference clustering of sequences into operational taxonomical units using the uclust tool with the sequence identity level at 97. the read clusters were further assigned to taxonomies using the rdp classifier with a confidence level of 80 .the microbial profiles obtained after this step contained various hierarchical levels of taxon-omy classification and their positions in the taxonomy were used to assess the diversity of each community.

the results were visualized by using emperor .pyrosequencing and data analysisthe resulting 16s v1-v3 amplicon libraries were sequenced by using a roche 454 gs flx system and reagents roche 454 life sciences corporation branford ct usa.

within-subject a-diversity values for 30 subjects that had a complete set of 24 swabs and at least 3000 reads per sample were computed by using the shannon entropy and averaged over each region and time point.

they could not be classified to the genus level by using the pipeline based on qiime and the rdp classifier.bacterial community diversity and variabilitywithin- and between-subject comparisons of microbiome diversity across regions and time points were conducted for 30 subjects that had a complete set of 24 swabs and at least 3000 reads per sample.

the large set of sequences for region v1-v3 of the bacte- rial 16s rdna and the comprehensive demographic information for the 50 subjects contain valuable data that could be analyzed in depth using specialized statistical tools such as vegan  and metagenomeseq  to determine the extent of association between the subject variables and microbiome profiles.

a few subjects 1 to 5 out of 36 subjects at each collection time point had taxa with an abundance of 10 which did not belong to the representative bacteria shown in the charts.

these subjects had bacterial taxa that were either absent or present only at substantially lower levels in many of the 36 subjects.

respiratory bacterial taxa were characterized at the genus level using qiime 1.8 and the ribosomal database project classifier.

the methodology which was established by using the microbial mock com- munities developed by the human microbiome project hmp has been used to obtain results comparable or superior to those of other studies .

the swabs were processed in parallel by using 96-well plates.

dneasy 96 extraction kit and qiavac 96 vacuum manifold qiagen were used in dna purification.pcr and roche 454 pyrosequencingas described previously  the purified dna samples were subjected to 16s rdna quantita- tive pcr to determine ct values using taqman universal master mix ii invitrogen carlsbad ca with 321f2 actgagayacggycca and 533r ttaccgcggctgctggc as the primersand 338p fam-actcctacgggaggcagcagt-black hole quencher as the probe.

