a decrease in put concentration was observed in the culture supernatant in the growing andor stationary phase of 7 22 b. dorei b. finegoldii p. johnsonii d. formicigenerans clostridium asparagiforme r. lactaris and eubacterium ventriosum of the 32 tested dominant human gut bacterial species b. in contrast put concentrations increased in the culture su- pernatants of 4 species 13 b. intestinalis r. obeum c. scindens and enterococcus faecalis in the growing or stationary phase b. comparing the put concentrations in the culture supernatant of growing phase to those of stationary phase the put concentration in the culture supernatant of 5 species 16 b. dorei b. stercoris r. torques anaerotruncus colihominis and en.

based on this criterion 5 16 b. ovatusfinegoldii b. xylanisolvens dorea longicatena and ruminococcus lac- taris of the 32 tested species of dominant gut bacteria contained put in the growing andor stationary phase however the intracellular put concentration in b. xylanisolvens was very low 0.56 - 0.39 nmolmg protein a.the change in put concentration was calculated by comparing the put concentration in the culture supernatant with that originally con- tained in gam 73.5 - 3.7 mm shown as a gray band in b. because there is no report proving that put is extracellularly degraded the decrease in put levels in the culture supernatant is thought to result from an uptake of put by the cultured bacteria.

furthermore polyamine biosynthesis and transport should be analyzed in dominant human gut bacterial species other than those belonging to the alistipes bacteroides and parabacteroides genera  for a comprehensive understanding of polyamine homeostasis in the human intestinal lumen.in the present study we measured polyamine concentration in the cell and culture supernatants of 32 species of dominant human gut bacteria cultured in gam at different growth phases.

the number shown before the species name indicates the order of gut microbial occupancy in a human gut microbial gene catalog .almost all the tested dominant human gut bacteria except d. for- micigenerans and co. aerofaciens contained intracellular spd a. a decrease in spd in the medium of 22 species was observed b suggesting that spd in the cell originates from spd in the medium.

6. novel polyamine biosynthetic proteins and transporters expected to exist in the tested dominant human gut bacteria.the presence of novel polyamine biosynthetic pro- teins and transporters was predicted from the changes in polyamine concentrations in the culture supernatants and cells and the presence or absence of homologs of known polyamine biosynthetic proteins and transporters.

the number shown before the species name indicates the order of gut bacterial occupancy in a human gut microbial gene catalog .out of the known spd transport proteins .discussionthe presence of novel polyamine biosynthetictransport proteins in the dominant human gut bacteria was determined by integrating bio- synthetic and transport activity for each polyamine -4 and by blastp analysis .first the presence of novel put biosynthetic proteins was estimated.

homologs of known spd biosynthetic proteins are absent from d. longicatena and d. for- micigenerans  both of these species possess potabcd homologs .a homolog of agub is possessed by all tested blautia species except in r. obeum additionally a speb homolog is found in all blautia species except in r. torques .

merdae in the growing or stationary phase b. in 3 9 species b. stercoris d. longicatena and r. torques spm concentration in the culture supernatant increased from the growing phase to stationary phase b.presence of known polyamine biosynthetic and transport proteins in tested dominant human gut bacteriathe results of blastp analysis that determined the presence or ab- sence of known polyamine biosynthetic or transport proteins in the dominant human gut bacteria are shown in .

therefore identification of new genes for polyamine biosynthesis and transport is indispensable for optimization of polyamine concentrations in human colonic lumen enabled by regulation of genes facilitating polyamine metabolism in gut bacteria.a human gut microbial gene catalog ranking the dominant mi- crobial speciesgenera in the human gut has been described  .

based on these findings we suggested strategies for optimizing polyamine concentrations in the human colonic lumen via regulation of genes responsible for polyamine biosynthesis and transport in the dominant human gut bacteria.introductionpolyamines putrescine put spermidine spd spermine spm are aliphatic amines possessing two or more amino groups.

in 4 13 species b. dorei d. formicigenerans r. torques and blautia han- senii the spd concentrations in the culture supernatant increased from the growing phase to the stationary phase b. spd concentrations in the culture supernatants of 10 31 species b. uniformis b. in- testinalis p. merdae p. distasonis r. torques r. obeum bl.

ventriosum and psudoflavonifractor capillosus of the 32 tested dominant human gut bacterial species in the growing phase andor stationary phase however the spm concentration in b. vulgatus b. xylanisolvens b. fragilis and p. merdae cells was very low 3.2 nmol mg protein a.the change in spm concentration was estimated by comparing the spm concentration in the culture supernatant of dominant human gut bacteria to that in gam 8.4 - 0.4 mm shown as a gray band in b. as with put and spd extracellular spm degradation has not been reported thus far.

the change in spd concentration was calculated by comparing thespd concentration in the culture supernatant with that originally con- tained in gam 24.6 - 1.0 mm shown as a gray band in b. as it has not been reported thus far that spd is extracellularly degraded the decrease in spd levels in the culture supernatant is thought to result from the transport of spd by cultured bacteria.

therefore it is conceivable that these 3 species possess a novel spm exporters.in the culture supernatant of some species intracellular polyamine levels did not increase despite decreased polyamine concentrations e.g.

all tested bacteroides and parabacteroides species possess homologs of potabcd but do not encode homologs of mdti and mdtj .of the known put biosynthetic proteins dorea species encodes only the agub homolog .

