PROKARYOTESComplete Genome Sequence of a Strain of Bifidobacterium pseudolongum Isolated from Mouse Feces and Associated with Improved Organ Transplant OutcomeEmmanuel F. Mongodina Lauren L. Hittlea Suvarna NadendlaaColin Brinkmanb Yanbao Xiongb Jonathan S. BrombergbInstitute for Genome Sciences University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore Maryland USAa Department of Surgery University of Maryland School of Medicine Baltimore Maryland USAbABSTRACT Here we report the complete genome sequence of Bifidobacterium pseudolongum strain UMB-MBP-01 isolated from the feces of C57BL6J mice.

The only complete B. pseudolongum genome se- quence--for strain PV8-2 GenBank accession number CP007457--was isolated from feces of an anemic Kenyan infant .Here we report the complete genome sequence of B. pseudolongum strain UMB- MBP-01 isolated from the feces of C57BL6J mice through passages and screening on Bifidus selective medium BSM agar Sigma-Aldrich St. Louis MO USA.

Among bifidobacteria Bifido- bacterium pseudolongum has been described as one of the most predominant Bifido- bacterium species in the murine gastrointestinal tract and its use in carefully designed animal studies could hold the key to identifying the host-microbiota molecular mech- anisms impacting the host.

Despite the availability of 386 Bifidobacterium whole- genome sequences in public databases source Genomes Online Database queried on 1 August 2017 there has been no complete B. pseudolongum genome sequence obtained from a mouse isolate.

The genome of B. pseudolongum strain UMB-MBP-01 consists of a 2008102-bp circular chromosome containing 52 tRNA genes and 4 rRNA operons encoding 12 rRNA genes.

The B. pseudolongum UMB-MBP-01 complete genome se- quence is available under GenBank accession number .ACKNOWLEDGMENTThis work was supported by a grant from the Living Legacy Foundation of Maryland.REFERENCESTissier H. 1900.

Bifidobacterium pseudolongum strain PV8-2 isolated from a stool sample of an anemic Kenyan infant.

