the operating principle of the lbrs involved has been further detailed by .substrate collection and experimental conditionsthree conditions were tested two reactors were inoculated with a mixture of digestate and leachate and were operated under mesophilic 37 degc or thermophilic 55 degc conditions minoc and tinoc respectively a third reactor was started up in thermophilic conditions but without specific inoculation tno inoc.

as a consequence about 7.9 of the methane is not converted into electrical power in thermophilic conditions compared to the 2.3 in a mesophilic environment.the digestion of spent cow bedding a slowly-degradable sub- strate was compared at mesophilic and thermophilic conditions.

1. comparison of thermophilic conditions with tinoc and without tno inoc solid digestate in run 1 and run 2 a specific methane production rate b vfa concentration.the peaks reached was related to the use of two different spent bedding samples whereas after 15 days the smp rates for both runs and conditions were similar.b presents the methane yield my for both temperature conditions and runs.

in mesophilic conditions the chp is operated at its pnom for a longer than in thermophilic conditions i.e.

as a consequence a better exploitation of the biogasenergy can be achieved in mesophilic conditions since gelec is thehighest at pnom whereas it decreases for lower powers.to sum up higher methane production rates in thermophilic conditions during the first days of the batch process are proved to induce on one hand the loss of a part of the biogas produced because the chp power limits are overtaken and on the other hand a poorer exploitation of the biogas's combustion power due to variable electrical efficiency.

based on this simulation it is estimated that 5.9 less electrical energy is produced in ther- mophilic conditions 1.84 106 kw helec as opposed to mesophilic conditions 1.95 106 kw helec on a annual basis.

van hullebusch j.p. steyer  r. escudie a lbe inra 102 avenue des etangs 11100 narbonne franceb naskeo environnement 52 rue paul vaillant couturier 92240 malakoff francec department of civil and mechanical engineering university of cassino and southern lazio via di biasio 43 03043 cassino fr italyd universite paris-est laboratoire geomateriaux et environnement lge ea 4508 upem 77454 marne-la-vallee franceh i g h l i g h t s spent cow bedding digestion was compared in mesophilic and thermophilic conditions.thermophilic temperature tt enhanced mainly easily-degradable matter digestion.mesophilic and thermophilic reactors reached the same methane yield after 42 days.higher biogas fluctuation at tt induced a decrease in the electricity production.the digestion of spent cow bedding at tt started easily without digestate addition.a r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 13 december 2016received in revised form 12 february 2017 accepted 15 february 2017available online 20 february 2017keywordsdry anaerobic digestion leach-bed reactor lbr thermophilic temperaturediscontinuous biogas production electric energy productiona b s t r a c t anaerobic digestion of spent cow bedding in batch leach-bed reactors lbrs was compared in mesophilic and thermophilic conditions for the first time.

methane yield at 42 days corresponded to 80 of the bmp run 1. it means that if 80 of the potential energy were recovered which seems economically important for a processtreating only spent cow bedding then thermophilic temperatures would not offer any advantage over mesophilic temperatures.in batch digesters fed with corn stover and operated at 20 ts also reported similar my in thermophilic and mesophilic conditions after 38-45 days of operation.

indeed when comparing the influence of mesophilic and thermophilic temperatures several authors agreed on the faster degradation kinetics when using thermophilic conditions to treat different sub- strates such as spent horse bedding  the organic fraction of municipal solid waste   spent cow bedding  vegetable waste mixed to wood chips   and cow dung .

in thermophilic conditions the first authors observed higher kinetics and methane yield than at mesophilic temperature while the second reported higher kinetics and a lower methane yield.

moreover no direct com- parison has been made between lbrs run in mesophilic and ther- mophilic temperatures and nor has research ever involved two specific challenges connected with this discontinuous process the start-up conditions i.e.

the solid digestates and leachates used in run 1 were sampled from two previous batches adapted to thermophilic and mesophilic conditions for over three months with two consecutive loadings.

2. comparison of mesophilic minoc and thermophilic tinoc conditions in run 1 and run 2 a specific methane production rate b methane yield c additional methane yield in thermophilic conditions.the experiment after 37 days.

because of the higher initial smp rates the my in thermophilic conditions were higher and only after about 42 days of operation the same my was reached in thermophilic and mesophilic reactors.

the additional amount of methane produced in thermophilic in comparison to mesophilic conditions is depicted in c. ini- tially the surplus was significant in both runs but it rapidly decreased to reach an average value of 27 at 13 days and 0 at 42 days.

