In summary our results provide important information for improving feed preparation for captive forest musk deer and implementing projects where captive forest musk deer are released into the wild.Keywords gut microbiota symbioses functional analysis Firmicutes Bacteroidetes forest musk deerINTRODUCTIONThe forest musk deer Moschus berezovskii belongs to the Moschidae family   and is a small ruminant unique to Asia.

At the genus level the relative abundances of Ruminococcaceae UCG-005 Eubacterium coprostanoligenes and Ruminococcaceae UCG-010 in wild forest musk deer were significantly higher compared with captive forest musk deer P  0.05 while the relative abundance of Bacteroides Alistipes and PrevotellaceaeUCG- 004 was lower in wild forest musk deer than in captive forest musk deer P  0.05.

Compared with captive forest musk deer wild forest musk deer have a wider feeding range with no dietary limitations and their gut microbiota are in a relatively natural state.

To gain insight into the composition of gut microbiota in forest musk deer under different food-source conditions we employed high-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing technology to investigate differences in the gut microbiota occurring between captive and wild forest musk deer.

To relieve resource pressure on wild forest musk deer China has attempted artificial breeding of forest musk deer since the 1950s.

However forest musk deer diseases remain a key factor obstructing the long- term development of forest musk deer breeding.

Wild forest musk deer feed on the leaves of a great variety of high-fiber plant species   while captive forest musk deer feed on leaves and high protein and polysaccharide concentrates given by artificial feeding and substantial differences exist between these two feeding methods.

The results of this research will provide a scientific basis for diagnosing diseases of the digestive system in forest musk deer and for improving feeding methods.MATERIALS AND METHODSAnimals and Sample CollectionTen healthy adult forest musk deer of similar age 3.5-5.5 years old and body size were selected from the Pien Tze Huang Forest Musk Deer Breeding Center in Baoji City Shaanxi province.

Secondly owing to the forest musk deer is a solitary animal and have strongly territoriality behavior also according to the research the home range of forest musk deer roughly between2.8 and 7 hm2 and spread along the hillside .

In the captive forest musk deer group 257 OTUs common to all forest musk deer individuals were identified.

