1 rarefaction curves for alpha-diversity metrics number of total otus a and bias- corrected form of chao1 index b calculated from 16rdna gene-based profiling analysis of the bacterial community in seawater and bivalve tissues sw  seawaterhm  m. galloprovincialis haemolymph ho  c. gigas haemolymphgm  m. galloprovincialis digestive gland go  c. gigas digestive gland dep  depurated samplesgland of m. galloprovincialis where this bacteria increased from 29 to 54 following depuration.pseudoalteromonas the dominant bacterial genus in the hemolymph of the two bivalve species was found to signifi- cantly decrease in m. galloprovincialis following depuration relative abundance in the haemolymph from 25 to 9 before and after depuration respectively while it remained fairly constant in c. gigas samples relative abundance in the haemolymph from 24 to 29 before and after depuration respectively fig.

microb ecol 2018 75495-504 doi 10.1007s00248-017-1051-6comparative 16srdna gene-based microbiota profilesof the pacific oyster crassostrea gigas and the mediterranean mussel mytilus galloprovincialis from a shellfish farm ligurian sea italyluigi vezzulli1 l. stagnaro 1  c. grande1  g. tassistro 1  l. canesi 1  c. pruzzo 1received 14 june 2017  accepted 27 july 2017  published online 12 august 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstract the pacific oyster crassostrea gigas and the mediterranean mussel mytilus galloprovincialis are two widely farmed bivalve species which show contrasting be- haviour in relation to microbial diseases with c. gigas be- ing more susceptible and m. galloprovincialis being gener- ally resistant.

.in the haemolymph bacterial diversity was higher inc. gigas than in m. galloprovincialis and was dominated by the genera pseudoalteromonas 24 and 25 relative abun- dance in c. gigas and m. galloprovincialis respectively and vibrio 24 and 14 relative abundance in c. gigas andm.

2 relative abundances of bacterial genera found in seawater and bivalve tissues by 16rdna gene- based profiling analysis sw  seawater hm  m. galloprovincialis haemolymphho  c. gigas haemolymph gm  m. galloprovincialis digestive gland go  c. gigas digestive gland dep  depurated samplesfig.

.indigenous potential pathogenic vibrio species in c. gigasand m. galloprovincialis tissuesconsidering that the vibrio genus represents a dominant group in bivalve tissues and play a role in bivalve disease the pres- ence of potential pathogenic vibrio species was investigated by real-time pcr in all samples table .

3 3d pcoa plots of beta diversity for seawater and bivalve samples calculated using principal coordinate analysis pcoa applied on bray- curtis distance matrix sw  seawater hm  m. galloprovincialis haemolymph ho  c. gigas haemolymph gm  m. galloprovincialis digestive gland go  c. gigas digestive gland dep  depurated samplesthat show different susceptibility to microbial diseases was evaluated by 16srdna gene amplification and pyrosequenc- ing.

this not only indicates that these genera are able to persist in thetable 1 real-time pcr counts of faecal indicators e. coli bivalve v. aestuarianus v. splendidus-clade v. coralliilyticus and human v. cholerae v. parahaemolyticus and v. vulnificus potential pathogenic bacteria in seawater and bivalve tissues sw  seawaterhm  m. galloprovincialis haemolymph ho  c. gigas haemolymph gm  m. galloprovincialis digestive gland go  c. gigas digestive gland dep  depurated samplesgu  genomic unithaemolymph environment and therefore to survive the antibac- terial activity of hemolymph components but also suggests that they might also contribute to bivalve antimicrobial defence for example through the production of antimicrobial compounds.

.effect of depuration on c. gigas and m. galloprovincialismicrobiotathe composition and diversity of the bacterial community were also evaluated in haemolymph and digestive gland of specimens of c. gigas and m. galloprovincialis collected after commercial depuration.

the vibrio genus also dominated the composition of the bacterial community in the digestive gland with higher relative abundance in c. gigas 36 than m. galloprovincialis 28 fig.

.a major shift in bivalve associated bacterial community structure following depuration practices regarded vibrio popu- lations that were found to significantly increase both in c. gigas and m. galloprovincialis tissues with the only exception ofc.

interestingly the bacterial community associated with the digestive gland of m. galloprovincialis was dominated by the genus desulfovibrio a bacterial genus not detected in c. gigas sam- ples that showed a relative abundance greater than 40 in these samples fig.

beta-diversity analysis also showed that the composition of the bacterial community was very similar in the haemolymph of c. gigas and m. galloprovincialis whereas differences were observed in the bacterial community compo- sition of digestive gland in the two bivalve species fig.

unfortunately mo- lecular studies investigating m. galloprovincialis microbiota are lacking and in contrast to oysters no information are currently available on the role that microbiome might play in health and disease of farmed mussel .we have recently shown that the different susceptibility to infection exhibited by c. gigas and m. galloprovincialis may depend at least in part on their different capability to kill invading microbial pathogens through the combined action of cellular hemocyte and soluble components of the haemolymph .

gigas and m. galloprovincialis respectively.discussioncomparison of c. gigas and m. galloprovincialismicrobiotain this work for the first time to our knowledge the microbi- ota structure in haemolymph and digestive gland of two con- trasting bivalve species c. gigas and m. galloprovincialisfig.

in particular the extrapallial protein ep present in serum of m. galloprovincialis mgep but lacking in c. gigas has been recently shown to work as an opsonin promoting d-mannose sensitive ms inter- actions of the bivalve pathogen vibrio aestuarianus 01032 strain and other bacteria e.g.

