over the last decade it has emerged as a potential contributor to obesityand metabolic traits 3. early gut microbiota studies suggested that firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio was higher in obese individuals 4. however later studies failed to confirm this finding 5. other studies have re- ported decreased gut microbial diversity in individuals with obesity and metabolic complications 67. interestingly abundance of certain bacterial species have recently been associated with high levels of aro- matic and branched-chain amino acids bcaa 89 both linked to obesity and insulin resistance 10.information on gut microbiota composition and function in children remains limited 1112 and its as- sociation with amino acid serum levels in childhood obesity is unknown.

adult gut microbiota composition has been linked to obesity but few studies have addressed the role of gut microbiota in childhood obesity.objectives the aim of this study is to compare gut microbiota composition in obese and normal-weight children and to associate gut microbiota profiles with amino acid serum levels and obesity-related metabolic traits.methods microbial taxa relative abundance was determined by 16s rrna sequencing in 67 normal-weight and 71 obese children aged 6-12 years.

abundance of both these species correlated negatively with phenylalanine serum levels a metabolite also found to be associated with obesity in mexican children.conclusions the study identified bacterial species associated with obesity metabolic complications and amino acid serum levels in mexican children.keywords amino acids gut microbiota mexican children obesity.introductionobesity is a major health problem worldwide.

in mexico overweight and obesity affect 72.5 of the adult population and 33.2 of school-age children 1. childhood obesity is associated with metabolic complications including dyslipidaemia and type 2diabetes and up to one-half of obese children are expected to become obese adults 2. understanding of the factors involved in the pathophysiology of this disease is therefore crucial.the adult gut microbiota is known to deeply impact host metabolic processes.

the relative abundance of bacteroides eggerthii was significantly higher in obese than in nw children q  0.004 while bacteroides plebeius was more abundant in nw than in obese children q  0.046. interestingly the relative abundance of an unclassified species of the christensenellaceae family was significantly increased in nw children but had borderline significance after fdr correction p  0.003 q  0.061 table 1. global otu level analysis showed that b. plebeius otu 187751 and christensenellaceae otu 325254 were the most enriched otus in nw children while b. eggerthii otu 178253 was the most enriched in the obese group table s6.figure 1 rarefaction curves comparing gut microbiota diversity by obesity status a insulin resistance status in the whole sample b and insulin resistance status only in obese children n  71 c p value 0.05.figure 2 gut microbiota composition in normal-weight and obese children.

first the sample size was reduced although other studies with similar sample sizes have reported significant differences in microbiota taxa of obesechildren 1112. in addition it is known that gut micro- biota analysis by 16s rrna sequencing can introduce bias by primer specificity 23. however the v4 region used here shows the greatest similarity to community profiles determined by shotgun sequencing 30. finally the functional prediction analyses of gut microbiota composition did not lead to mechanistic insights related to the pathophysiology of obesity and its complications.

hochberg false discovery rate fdr-adjusted q-values 0.05 wereconsidered significant 20. afterwards the presenceabsence of the species whose abundance was found to be associated with obesity was further tested for association with obesity using a chi- squared test with haldane's correction when appro- priate.

association with obesity was tested for the three species found to be associated with obesity in our study using mann-whitney u-tests.

1c.association of gut microbiota composition with obesity and dietthe most abundant phylum in nw and obese children was bacteroidetes 67.5 and 69.4 respectively followed by firmicutes 27.8 in nw and 26 in obese children and proteobacteria 3.4 in nw and 3.5 in obese children fig.

colour figure can be viewed at table 1 relative abundance and presenceabsence pa of bacteria species associated with obesityunclassifiedchristensenellaceae0.99118490.0017640.0610.017comparison of relative abundance between normal-weight and obese children false discovery rate corrected.comparison of presenceabsence of species between normal-weight and obese children.because associations of gut microbiota with obesity can vary with gender we performed a gender-stratified analysis of b. plebeius unclassified christensenellaceae and b. eggerthii abundances.

eggerthii abundance was significantly higher in obese children whereas b. plebeius and unclassified christensenellaceae abundance were higher in nw subjects.previous studies have related higher gut microbial diversity with a healthier metabolic status 67. although we did not find higher microbial diversity in nw than in obese children we observed lower diver- sity in children with insulin resistance regardless of their obesity status.

given the high prevalence of type 2 diabetes in the mexican population 1 this finding in children could be of epidemiological relevance and should be further analysed in longitudinal studies.associations of gut microbiome composition with obesityalthough obesity was initially related to increased firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio 4 these findings have not been confirmed in more recent studies 5. these inconsistencies could be explained by methodologi- cal differences or population differences such as host genetics geography and diet 23. the lack ofdifferences in firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio between nw and obese mexican children observed here is consistent with the findings of a previous study in chil- dren from central mexico 11. in contrast significant differences were observed at the species level asb.

eggerthii showed higher abundance in obese than in nw subjects p  0.036. thus the differential abundance of these three species is not exclusive from mexican children as it was found to be associ- ated with obesity in adults from another ethnic group.diet is known to influence gut microbiota composi- tion 3. we did not find significant dietary differences in nw and obese children however insoluble fibre in- take negatively correlated with b. eggerthii abun- dance.

this is consistent with previous findings in an animal model where a mexican pre-hispanic diet based on high-fibre grains and seeds decreased the abundance of b. eggerthii 29-fold and diminished lps circulating levels by 52 28. altogether these findings may be useful to design dietary intervention studies which could eventually lead to translational dietary recommendations in humans.associations with metabolic traits and amino acid serum levelsunclassified christensenellaceae was the only spe- cies associated with host lipid traits which is in line with other studies 7927. although further research is required this finding highlights the potential role of gut microbiota-targeted interventions for the preven- tion of dyslipidaemia.gut microbiota has been recently found to be an im- portant contributor to the increased serum bcaa and aromatic amino acid levels in obesity and its metabolic complications 89. in consistency with these studies we observed significantly higher serum levels of bcaa valine and leucineisoleucine and aromatic amino acids phenylalanine and tyrosine in obese children.

although these correlations have not been previously reported christensenellaceae family abundance was negatively correlated with isoleucine and valine serum levels in finnish adults 9.in an attempt to explore the functional role of the gut microbiota in obesity phenotypes and dietary compo- nents we inferred bacterial metabolic pathways.

