after representative sequences were selected for each otu these sequences were used for further analyses using two different approaches 1 silva   with tax4fun  and 2 greengenes  with picrust .comparison of taxonomic information using silva and greengenesin order to conduct the silva-tax4fun approach representative sequences were assigned to reference sequences in the silva database release 123. however to conduct the greengenes-picrust approach the same representative sequences were used for taxonomic assign- ments based on ribosomal database project rdp classifier   trained using the greengenes v 13.5 16s rrna database.

ob12-silva ob12 microbial mat sample analyzed by using silva ob12- greengene ob12 microbial mat sample analyzed by using greengenes ob13-silva ob13 microbial mat sample analyzed by using silva ob13-greengene ob13 microbial mat sample analyzed by using greengenes.silva database revealed pseudoxanthomonas cyanobacteria sub- sectioniii nitrosomonadaceae polaromonas sm1a02 and leptothrix while greengenes showed a1-b1 pseudanabaena comamonadaceae ellin6067 and opitutus to be represented b. a detailed list of the distribution of taxonomic groups up to genus level for the silva and greengenes databases in ob12 and ob13 samples is elaborated in supplementary material s3.comparison of predicted functional attributescomparison of the predicted metabolic functions of ob12 and ob13 showed highly abundant kegg categories between the tax4fun and picrust .

in contrast by using the grenegenes database gemmatimonadetes was found to be the second most abundant taxon followed by bacteroidetes cyano- bacteria actinobacteria planctomycetes verrucomicrobia and acid- obacteria.at the most resolvable level either family or genus a total 146 taxa were identified by the silva database and 103 taxa were identified by the greengenes database b. although there was congruency between the two taxonomic assignment strategies an additional 80 taxa were exclusively identified by silva but not by greenegenes whereas 32 taxa were identified by greengenes and not by silva.

overall our study revealed that the functional profile predicted by tax4fun using the silva database produced 14.95 higher kegg functional ids as compared to the picrust method which uses the greengenes database.

taxa such as pseudoxanthomonas planctomycetaceae cyanobacteria subsection iii nitrosomonadaceae leptothrix and rhodobacter were exclusively identified by tax4fun that uses silva database whereas picrust that uses greengenes database uniquely identified pirellulaceae gemmatimonadetes a1-b1 pseudanabaena salinibacterium and sinobacteraceae.

overall with otus clustered at a 97 sequence similarity a higher number of otus were generated in both samples using the silva database release 123 as compared to the greengenes database v.13.5.comparison of microbial diversity assigned by using silva and greengenes databasesusing both databases the relative abundances of microbial taxa in the ob12 and ob13 mat samples were determined to the most re- solvable level up to family or genus .

the nsti value validates the taxonomy-based picrust-predicted kegg func- tional categories of the microbial communities ob12ob13totalnumber of raw sequences129660 176679 306339. since the outputof the functional profiles generated by picrust was not compatible with tax4fun we have written an r script for the comparative analysesnumber of sequences after trimming and filteringprocessesnumber of otus based on greengenes v 13.5 databasenumber of otus based on silva release 123database106450 141980 248430130713362643183917423581of the taxonomy-based metabolic functional predictions of the micro- bial communities in the two mat samples supplementary materials s1.1 s1.2 and s2.shannon diversity5.2135.394-simpson diversity0.9030.944-pre-processing paired-end reads were merged by using usearch  based on overlapping regions.

of the total number of kegg categories as- signed to ob12 and ob13 297 kegg categories were not identified using tax4fun whereas 476 kegg categories were missed by picrust supplementary material s4.

subsequent assignment of functional categories through kegg also showed that picrust assigned 297 extra kegg ids whereas tax4fun recorded 476 additional kegg ids.

in this study using both greengenes and silva taxonomic databases used by the picrust and tax4fun software packages re- spectively we present the first data describing microbial community composition of the microbial mats found beneath the thick perennial ice of lake obersee antarctica.

thus by coupling the taxonomic information from these two databases using the r script we were able to obtain a more inclusive microbial profile than using either silva or greengenes alone.the predictive functional profiles of microbial communities de- termined by combining the tax4fun and picrust outputs using the r script revealed a relatively higher abundance of enzymes such as serinethreonine protein kinase acyl-carrier protein reductase   components necessary forfig.

we compared picrust and tax4fun which use 16s rrna gene-based taxonomic information and the kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes kegg database to predict functional attributes of microbial communities in lake obsersee.

similar to tax4fun picrust utilized the greengenes-labeled otu table to predict metabolic functions from the kegg database.

as com- pared to the greengenes database five additional phyla armatimo- nadetes hydrogenedentes parcubacteria tm6 tenericutes were de- tected by the silva database.

certain genomes that were observed in our study such as hydrogenedentes and parcubacteria were only found in the silva database and did not have reference genomes in the greengenes database.

