by using various bioinformatic tools we uncovered several character- istic features of microbiota corresponding to specific catego- ries of the flies host-sex-bias association of specific bacteriagangsik han and hyo jung lee contributed equally to this study.age-dependent alteration of microbiota across host species and sex and uniqueness of the microbiota of female w1118 flies.

strain- and sex- specific characteristics of microbiota composition were observedsamplingsamplingsamplingchronological age dayothers staphylococcus shigella ralstoniapropionibacterium escherichia corynebacterium leuconostoc enterococcus acetobacter lactobacillusresults and discussionwe investigated whether the microbiota in the gut is differentiated by sex and age in two commonly used laboratory drosophila species w1118 and canton s. the flies whose microbiota had been thoroughly bal- anced and stabilized with that of our rearing food con- dition standard yeast-glucose medium see b  section were used for the analysis.

however other trends of age-dependent changes in microbiota composition were not so obvious.to identify the host factors that determine microbiota com- position among different host types we used a bray-curtis dissimilarity analysis to quantify the compositional dissimilar- ity of the microbiota between two different sites .

microb ecol 2017 74207-216 doi 10.1007s00248-016-0925-3comparative analysis of drosophila melanogaster gut microbiota with respect to host strain sex and agegangsik han1  hyo jung lee 1  sang eun jeong 1  che ok jeon1  seogang hyun1received 17 october 2016  accepted 22 december 2016  published online 4 january 2017 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2017abstract microbiota has a significant impact on the health of the host individual.

these results indi- cate that despite several limitations for understanding human gut microbiota due to the difference in immune system and intestinal structure d. melanogaster can serve for an ideal model system for understanding the influence of commensal bacteria on the physiology and development of its host.several studies have examined drosophila gut microbiota using the 16s amplicon strategy the results of which have generally indicated that the fly supports a rather simple bacte- rial composition roughly comprised of a relatively small num- ber of bacterial families including the lactobacillaceae acetobacteraceae enterococcaceae and enterobacteriaceae.

recent analyses of fly gut microbiota sampled from different geographical locations and laboratory sources have demonstrated that bacterial community richness is dependent on the fly's food consumption suggest- ing that microbiota composition in the gut of adult drosophila is shaped primarily by the host's diet and nutritional environ- ment -.

as such rigorous and comprehensive descriptions of the gut microbiota of d. melanogaster with respect to factors such as host age sex and strain are absent.in this study pyrosequencing of 16s rrna genes derived from bacterial metagenomes was performed for comparative analysis of the gut microbiota of two commonly used laboratory strains of d. melanogaster w1118 and canton s based on the sex and age of the host individual.

a this analysis revealed that host sex marginally affected the composition of the microbiota in both host strains implying that other thansex-specific bacterial genera such as enterococcus overall composition of microbiota were similar between male and female hosts.

b which may be because of the uniqueness of the microbiota of female w1118 hosts see below.the effects of d. melanogaster age on microbiota compo- sition were then examined.

for this microbiota from young 95 flies remained alive in the population and middle- aged 70 flies remained alive in the population flies were compared as were microbiota from young 95 flies remained alive in the population and old 20 flies remained alive in the population flies using bray-curtis dissimilarity analyses.

c d. weak effect of host age on microbiota seen within w1118 and within female flies may again be due to masking effects caused by the uniqueness of the microbiota of w1118 female host see below fig.

the microbiota profile of female w1118 flies appears to be distinct from the other three categories of fliessamples of young flies across all four categories w1118 male w1118 female canton s male and canton s female were found to be co-segregated from the other samples indicating that youthfulness of the fly host may exert selective pressures that determine gut microbiota composition fig.

in addi- tion the pca also provided corroborating evidence of the uniqueness of the microbiota in female w1118 flies by demonstrating that the microbiota found in the samples of female w1118 flies differ significantly from the other fly categories fig.

the microbiotas of female w1118 flies were distinct from the other three categories of flies as indicated by the thin dotted circlemore influential than sex or strain in shaping unique d. melanogaster gut microbiota composition.conclusionthe complexity of the interactions between microbiota and human hosts has restricted our understanding of this relation- ship.

in this study we used pyrosequencing of the 16s rrna gene deriving from metagenomes of the microbiota in dissect- ed fly guts to provide the landscape of gut microbiota of two commonly used laboratory d. melanogaster strains w1118 and canton s in terms of their sex and age.

