these findings are consistent with earlier reports on amf associated with the roots of arabica coffee trees in yemen a higher mycorrhizal colonization was registered in site 2. this variability of the mycorrhizal intensity from one site to another can be explained by the differences in the physico-chemical properties of substrates temperature and rainfall.

ecol lett 200811 296-310.de beenhouwer m van geel m ceulemans t muleta d. changing soil characteristics alter the arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi communities of arabica coffee coffea arabica in ethiopia across a management intensity gradient.

received 8 february 2017  revised 8 may 2017  accepted 13 may 2017 doi 10.1002jobm.201700075research paper composition of the root mycorrhizal community associated withcoffea arabica in fifa mountains jazan region saudi arabiamosbah mahdhi1 taieb tounekti1 turki ali al-turki2 habib khemira11 centre for environmental research and studies jazan university jazan saudi arabia2 natural resources and environmental research institute king abdulaziz city for science and technology riyadh saudi arabiacorrespondencemosbah mahdhi centre for environmental research and studies jazan universityp.o.

the majority of obtained sequences 115 sequences were within the glomerales 25 belonged to the family claroideo- glomeraceae formerly glomus group b and the rest to the glomeracea glomus group a. two phylotypes were detected within the claroideoglomeraceae claroideoglomus 1 included 12 sequences which not clustered with publishedfigure 2 mycorrhizal frequency and intensity in c. arabica roots in two fields in fifa mountains saudi arabia.

diversity of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in the rhizosphere of coffea arabica in the republic of yemen.

coffea arabica l. arabica coffee and coffea canephora pierre ex a. froehner robusta coffee are the two species used in the production of coffee representing 70 and 30 of commercial production respectively.

arbuscular- mycorrhizal fungi amf constitute a key functional groupj basic microbiol.

a number of studies have described the relationship of mycorrhizal symbiosis with coffee .

showed that coffee have high mycorrhizal dependency especially during the seedling formation stage.

given the historical importance of coffee production in south-western saudi arabia the objective of this study was to describe the status of mycorrhizal fungi and to explore the community structure and taxon composition of amf in coffeec.

spore density was expressed as the total number of spores per 100 g of soil  assessment of amf root colonizationin the laboratory plant roots were washed with sterile water cleared by heating in 10 koh at 90 degc for 1 h bleached by immersion in 10 h2o2 for 5 min acidified in dilute hcl and stained with 0.05 trypan blue in lactophenol stained roots were checked for amf infection by examination under a compound microscope and the mycorrhizal colonization percentage were obtained by the root slide technique ninety root pieces 1 cm in length per plant were counted.

the highest coffee root mycorrhizal colonization was recorded in site 2 68.3 and 24.3 for frequency and intensity respectively compared to that of the field located in site 1 50.3 and 18.3 for frequency and intensity respectivelyfigure 1 spores number of the am fungi in the rhizosphere ofc.

smith and read showed that root colonization and plant mycorrhizal dependency are environment-dependent traits.our results show that the density of amf spores was relatively low which is common for coffee species in aridlands these low densities of amf spores may be due to the presence of species with low sporulation capacity in those environments.

mycorrhizal symbiosis 3rd ed.. new york academic press 2008.andrade sal mazzafera p schiavinato ma silveira apd.

j agric sci 2009 147105-15.abdel-fattah gm asrar a-w. arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal application to improve growth and tolerance of wheat triticum aestivum l. plants grown in saline soil.

