The isolates included in the present study obtained from a Great scallop hatchery in Norway were undoubtedly assigned to N. phycophila on the basis of their 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity indicating that this bacterial species presents a wider host and geographical distribution from the Caribbean to the North sea.The scallop isolates and N. phycophila CECT 8716T presented sev- eral differential characteristics as the temperature pH and salinity tol- erance among others.

ChemotaxonomyWhole-cell fatty acid analysis was concurrently performed on cells of five scallop isolates N. naphthovorans CECT 7132T and N. phycophila CECT 8716T grown for 3 days at 25degC on MA Difco.

These results were slightly different to those given in N. phycophila description even though the conditions and growth medium were theTABLE 1 Characteristics of five scallop isolates andNeptunomonas phycophila CECT 8716TaaAll strains were positive for the use of d-glucose fructose sucrose d-mannitol myo-inositol glycerol sodium acetate pyruvate l-serine d-alanine arginine ornithine propionic acid citric acid lactic acid succinic acid glutamic acid amino-N-butyric acid aspartic acid b-hydroxybutyric acid fumaric acid malic acid and d-saccharic acid and enzymatic activities of alkaline phosphatase and leucine arylamidase whereas they were all negative for d-xylose l-rhamnose maltose melibiose salicin amygdalin sorbitol N-acetyl-d-glucosamine glycine l-leucine lysine and threonine and the enzymatics activities of trypsin a-chymotrypsin a-galactosidase b-galactosidase a-glucosidase b-glucosidase b-glucuronidase N-acetyl- b-glucosaminidase a-mannosidase and a-fucosidase.bv indicates variable results.

Type strains of Neptunomonas naph- thovorans CECT 7132T and N. phycophila CECT 8716T were obtained from the Coleccion Espanola de Cultivos Tipo CECT and included in the study for taxonomic comparison.

Type strain of N. phycophila CECT 8716T showed different ability in the use of carbon sources being able to utilize d-ribose arabinose d-galactose trehalose d-mannose cello- biose lactose and l-histidine but not gluconic acid Table 1.According to API ZYM alkaline phosphatase and leucine arylami- dase activity was present in all isolates including type strain CECT 8716T andtrypsin a-chymotrypsin a-galactosidase b-galactosidase b-glucuronidase a-glucosidase b-glucosidase N-acetyl-b-gluco saminidase a-mannosidase and a-fucosidase activities were negative for all isolates.

Our study also demonstrated that strains belonging to N. phycoph- ila as other representatives of the genus Neptunomonas posses the genes necessary to degrade PAH compounds opening an important field of research to properly characterize the degradative pathways in this bacterial species and to determine its potential biotechnological applications.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was supported in part by project 245119 REPROSEED from KBBE-2009-1-2-11 Subprogramme of the 7th Framework Programme FP7 European Commission and grant AGL2013-42628-R AEI FEDER UE from the Agencia Estatal de Investigacion Spain.CONFLICT OF INTEREST All the authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest.REFERENCES Alikhan N. F. Petty N. K. Ben Zakour N. L.  Beatson S. A.

Phenotypic characterizationThe five scallop isolates together with the type strains of N. phycophila and N. naphthovorans were characterized by routine phenotypic tests following the methodologies described by Lemos Toranzo and Barja 1985 Romalde Toranzo and Barja 1990 and MacFaddin 1993.

The range of growth at different temperature NaCl concen- tration or pH observed for the scallop strains differed from those given for N. phycophila CECT 8716T.

Genome sequencing and annotation DNA-DNA relatedness average nucleotide identity and GC contentIn addition DNA of isolates 3CM2.5 and N. phycophila CECT 8716T were extracted with a High Pure PCR Template Preparation KitFIGURE 1 Neighbor-joining tree based on 16S rRNA gene sequence data showing the phylogenetic positions of strains within the genus Neptunomonas.

The type strain of N. phycophila CECT 8716T was described as able to grow at 40degC with an optimum of 30degC whereas the five Norwegian isolates showed a lower range of temperature to growth with an optimum of 23degC.

