the ebp pili genes described in e. faecalis com- prising of ebpa ebpb and ebpc assist in adherence and biofilm formation  the gele gene in e. faecalis en- codes for gelatinase which hydrolyses gelatin collagen casein and haemoglobin its expression is regulated by the two-component fsr system with both gele and fsr genes important in biofilm formation -.in addition to these virulence genes a number of bac- terial sex pheromone genes were also present in e. fae- calis including cad came ccf10 and cob1.

in addition to human clinical enterococci virulence genes have been identified in enterococci from non-clinical environments - with e. faecalis having a greater prevalence of virulence genes than e. faecium an observation that aligns with our study.antibiotic resistance genesenterococci can exhibit resistance to a number of antibi- otics partly due to their innate resistance to many com- monly used antibiotics such as penicillin but also due to their ability to successfully acquire resistance through horizontal exchange of args on mges in this study we screened the 21 enterococcus genomes against the resfinder and cards databases for resistance genes table genes conferring resistance to vancomycin were only found in the genomes of e. gallinarum and e. casseliflavus where the vanc operon was present.

all three e. faecium strains contained the efaa and acm genes whilst e. faecalis contained a number of virulence genes including efaa ace ebp pili genes gele and fsrb.

in the presence of heme e. faecalis ex- hibits catalase activity catalase production has been speculated to play a role in virulence in pathogenic bac- teria including staphylococcus aureus e. faecalis can be exposed to oxidative stress as part of the host defence against invasion catalase production may offer some protection against oxidation during inva- sion contributing to the virulence of e. faecalis.

use to combat oxidative stress.multi-locus sequence typing mlstmulti-locus sequence typing mlst has been used to study the population structure and evolution of e. fae- cium and e. faecalis this technique involves sequencing and analysis of housekeeping genes and as- signment of a sequence type st  5. in the current study e. faecium 11 e. faecium 12 and e. fae- cium 13 were classified as st214 unknown and st955 respectively and e. faecalis 17 as st242 table .

the acm and ace genes described in e. faecium and e. faecalis respectively are important for facilitating cell wall adhesion to host tis- sues the efaa gene found in both e. faecalis and e. faecium also plays a role in adherence to host tis- sues and is a virulence factor involved in endocarditis .

other than e. faecalis.virulence genes have mostly been characterized in e. faecalis and e. faecium with little information available on the nature of these genes in other enterococcalspecies.

other viru- lence genes were also commonly detected in e. durans such as the esp gene which is important for adhesion with the exception of e. faecalis and e. faecium virulence genes were not detected in the sequence of the other enterococcus isolates from the bovine gi tract.

it is predicted that these arrays lie dormant or that cas genes from other similar arrays may be sufficient for their activity 6. orphan crispr arrays without cas genes 4 were identified by the crisprdb in a number of genomes including two e. hirae strains and in e. thailandicus e. faecalis and e. dur- ans additional file table s4.

interestingly e. hirae6 e. durans19 and e. casseliflavus20 exhibited resistance to macrolides even though no resistance genes to macrolides matched those in either the resfinder or cards databases.we previously reported that the e. thailandicus isolate sequenced in this study exhibited intermediate resistance to erythromycin additional file table s3 al- though there were no obvious macrolide resistance genes present there were a number of genes identified as having multidrug efflux functions which may have contributed to intermediate resistance to erythromycin there is also the possibility that this phenotype was as a result of an unknown gene that codes for erythro- mycin resistance.genes conferring resistance to high concentrations of aminoglycosides were not detected in any of the genomes.

however their presence in the rumen microbiome has been reported following metagenomic analysis crispr-casclustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats crispr and crispr-associated cas genes are a type of adaptive immune response described in bacteria against in- vading genetic elements such as phage and plasmids  a crispr locus includes a crispr array flanked by vari- ous cas genes with the array comprised of short direct re- peats alternating with short variable dna sequences called 'spacers' three types of crispr-cas systems have been described distinguished by the presence of different cas genes namely cas3 for type i cas9 for type ii and cas10 for type iii .

two e. faecium strains e. faecium 11 and e. faecium 12 and an e. villorum e. faecalis and e. casseliflavus strain e. villorum 16 e. faecalis 17 and e. casseliflavus 20 respectively exhib- ited the greatest percentage of proteins assigned as phage and transposases.using the compare genomes function available in the img platform we produced an abundance profile over- view of the gene count for different cogs for all 21 en- terococcus spp.

they found cogs responsible for the metabolism cog2160 and cog3957 uptake cog4213 and cog4214 and degradation cog3940 of arabinose to be present in e. faecium and absent in e. faecalis attributing this to the in- ability of e. faecalis to metabolise arabinose .

in our study cog4677 was present in e. faecium e. durans and e. casseliflavus and absent from e. hirae e. thailandicus e. villorum e. faecalis and e. gallinarum whilst cog3479 was present in e. hirae e. faecium e. villorum and e. durans and ab- sent from e. faecalis e. thailandicus e. gallinarum ande.

sts can be assigned to a clonal com- plex cc based on their similarity to a central alleic profile  mlst analysis of the population structure of e. faecium has identified that the majority of strains associated with nosocomial infections belong to the clonal complex 17 cc17 for e. faecalis it ap- pears that two complexes cc2 and cc9 represent hospital-derived strains the sts assigned to e. faecium and e. faecalis identified in the current study have been described previously - and are notassociated with complexes of hospital-derived strains.

