in all of the 47 species isolated using culture-dependent methods and the 51 species isolated using culture-independent methods only five species were found from the same woman using both techniques .

thus culture-independent methods have demonstrated greater vaginal microbial diversity than previously recognized andhave identified under-documented species such as lacto- bacillus iners and atopobium vaginae as important constitu- ents of the vaginal microbiome worldwide .we have previously used culture methods to characterize the vaginal microbiome in mysore .

a total of 47 spe- cies representing 26 unique species were obtained using culture-dependent methods and a total of 51 species repre- senting 27 distinct species were isolated using culture-inde- pendent methods .

here we not only identified l. iners in the vaginal microflora in south indian women but we found it to be the most prevalent species when using molecular approaches.another notable strength of culture-independent methods was that it was better at detecting clinically relevant non- lactobacillus species known to be associated with bv than traditional culture methods.

one annotated species found using culture-dependent methods was classified as 'other'.to lack of growth on culture or failure during 16s rdna pcr which could be a source of potential bias in the study.despite these limitations this study is the first to molecular methods to characterize the vaginal microflora among women of reproductive age in india.

bv is a risk factor for sexually transmitted infections including hiv .while vaginal microflora were traditionally characterized using cultivation methods today cultivation-independent molecular approaches are favored because certain vaginal microflora are not amenable to culturing .

journal of medical microbiology 201766149-153 doi 10.1099jmm.0.000407comparison of culture-dependent and culture-independent molecular methods for characterization of vaginal microflorashirali pandya12 kavitha ravi2 vijaya srinivas2 smitha jadhav2 anisa khan2 anjali arun2 lee w. riley3 and purnima madhivanan24introductionthe vaginal microbiome in healthy women is predomin- antly lactobacilli which are thought to be important for maintaining normal vaginal environment and protecting against infections .

and l. iners was found to be the most common lactobacillus sp five women 38 detected using cultivation-independent methods 2 2. four of the five women harboring l. iners were healthy withrespect to bv status 2. l. jensenii and l. crispatus were also commonly isolated using culture-independent techniques each isolated from three 23 women.

only 23 of non-lactoba- cillus species found using culture-independent methods were not associated with bv.table 1. summary of species isolated among women of reproductive age in mysore indiathe table shows the total numbers of species unique species lactobacillus and non-lactobacillus species isolated using culture-dependent and cul- ture-independent techniques.

the list of bacterial species isolated from each participant using both methods is shown in table s1 available in the online supplementary material.culture methods found eight distinct lactobacillus species among the 13 women 1. lactobacillus jensenii was the most common species found in four 31 women 2 2. lactobacillus gasseri and lactobacillus reuteri were iso- lated from two 15 women each while lactobacillus crisp- atus lactobacillus mucosae lactobacillus fermentum lactobacillus ruminis and lactobacillus colehominis were iso- lated from one 8 woman each.

we have clearly dem- onstrated the utility of using molecular approaches to char- acterize vaginal microbial diversity over the traditional culturing methods previously used in this setting.funding informationdrs pandya riley and madhivanan received support from the national institutes of health global health equity scholars program r25 tw009338.acknowledgementsfor their generous assistance on this project the authors would like to thank poornima jaykrishna fazila begum savitha gowda chan- dramani meena and rani chinnappa at public health research insti- tute of india without whose support this study could not have been carried out and all women in the study for their participation.conflicts of interestthe authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest.referencesaroutcheva a gariti d simon m shott s faro j et al.

charac- terization of vaginal microbial communities in adult healthy women using cultivation-independent methods.

when using culture-dependent dark grey and culture-independent light grey methods in mysore india.overlapping sets of vaginal microbial species from the same women.

for culture-dependent processing two swabs were immediately placed in bbl port-a-cul transport tubes becton dickin- son and company and plated onto rogosa and sheep blood agar within 12 h. colonies were grown anaerobically and processed using culture-dependent methods as previously described .

pcr products were then directly sequenced using sanger sequencing methods on an abi 3730xl dna system at scigenom labs.

