ppi-treated patients showed more similarities in microbial diversity and abundance to the patients who had autoimmune atrophic gastritis than to the patients who had h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis.the strengths of this study are the relatively large cohort of patients and the subsequently high numbers of samples sequenced.

and that patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis showed similarities to individuals with h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis by predicted pathway analysis despite markedly different serum gastrin concentrations .samples from patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis contained significantly more streptococci than all other groups  .

streptococcus did not appear to be simi- larly increased in h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis this may have been due to the negative relationship observed between helicobacter and streptococcus identified in co-occurrence net- works .gastric biopsies from patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis and those on ppis both showed greater bacterial diversity than was observed in the stomachs of patients with h.pylori-induced atrophic gastritis .

the h. pylori gastritis and h. pylori atrophic gastritis samples were dominated by proteobacteria as helicobacter itself is a member of this phylum whilst biopsies from patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis contained the largest proportion of firmicutes compared to all other patient groups.alpha diversity.

furthermore patients receiving ppi treatment showed significantly higher propor- tions of flavisolibacter and dermacoccus in their stomachs than autoimmune atrophic gastritis patients but significantly less paludibacter granulicatella streptococcus and neisseria.patients who had atrophic gastritis due to h. pylori or an autoimmune aetiology both showed over-representation of several mutual pathways compared to controls .

atrophy  h. pylori associated atrophic gastritis auto  autoimmune atrophic gastritis control  normal hp gastr  h. pylori associated gastritis andppi  proton pump inhibitor.

95 patients in groups representing normal stomach ppi treated h. pylori gastritis h. pylori- induced atrophic gastritis and autoimmune atrophic gastritis were selected from a cohort of 1400. rna extracted from gastric corpus biopsies was analysed using 16s rrna sequenc- ing miseq.

as with the h. pylori gastritis group the majority of these changes reflected decreases in the proportions of various bacterial genera within the h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis group with the only increase being in heli- cobacter itself.co-occurrence networks were more complicated in h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis patients compared to those subjects who had h. pylori-induced gastritis .

for example glucose-6-phosphate 1-dehydrogenase and d-lactate dehydrogenase pathways were over-represented in the stomachs of patients who had h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis compared to those who had autoimmune atrophic gastritis .discussiongastric samples obtained from subjects who had a normal stomach no evidence of h. pylori infection and normogastrinaemia had the highest levels of microbial diversity.

patients in the h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis group showed histological evidence of corpus atrophic gastritis andor intestinal metaplasia had no dysplasia or cancer were positive for h. pylori by serology were not taking a ppi and were hypergastrinaemic.

patients in the autoimmune atrophic gastritis group had histological evidence of atrophic gastritis no evidence of h. pylori infection by rapid urease test or histology posi- tive anti-gastric parietal cell andor intrinsic factor antibodies were markedly hypergastri- naemic and 8 out of 11 also had grade 1 type i gastric nets.

pylori colonisation was associated with a decrease in gastric bacterial diversity and domi- nance of this organism which is highly adapted to the gastric environment has also been reported previously.the majority of changes observed in h. pylori gastritis and h. pylori-induced atrophic gas- tritis samples were due to reductions in non-h. pylori bacteria.

at the genus level patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis showed significant increases in tannerella dorea streptococcus fusobacterium and campylobacter compared to the patients with h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis .

despite this following removal of h. pylori there was a significant difference in abundance for h. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis patients compared to normal stomachs suggesting strongly that there are dif- ferences in the proportions of non-h. pylori bacteria in these subjects compared with others .

hp atrophy  h. pylori associated atrophy auto atrophy  autoimmune atrophic gastritis control  normal stomach hp gastritis  h. pylori associated gastritis ppi  proton pump inhibitor and negative  extraction control.comparisons between the microbiota profiles in the different patient groups and healthy controlsnormal stomach versus ppi treated patients.

