biotechnol bioeng 7582-92. doide bruin lmm de kreuk mk van der roest hfr uijterlinde c van loosdrecht mcm 2004 aerobic granular sludge technology an alternative to acti- vated sludge water sci technol 491-7de kreuk mk heijnen jj van loosdrecht mcm 2005 simultaneous cod nitrogen and phosphate removal by aerobic granular sludge.

amb expr 2017 7168doi 10.1186s13568-017-0471-5comparison of the bacterial community composition in the granular and the suspended phase of sequencing batch reactorseniko szabo1 raquel liebana1 malte hermansson2 oskar modin1 frank persson1 and britt-marie wilen1introductionwastewater treatment by aerobic granular sludge is a low-footprint technology that allows effective pollutant removal even at high loading rates beun et al.

.in this study we followed the community composition in granular sludge reactors at different operational con- ditions for 12 weeks both in the granular phase and the suspended phase effluent.

we assessed how the spatial distribution of certain taxa affected its wash-out and compared the bacterial com- munity in the granular and suspended phases to gain bet- ter understanding of the successional patterns in granular sludge reactors.materials and methodsreactor setup and mediumthe experiments were carried out in three column-was concomitantly increased to permit an even 4 h cycle length.

this work is to our knowl- edge the first report about the microbial community composition in the effluent of granular sludge reactors.

where they use a dimensionless species proportion ratio to determinewhether preferential wash-out of certain bacterial groups occurs in the granular sludge reactor.

are shown in additional file  table s2discussionbased on the dissimilarity matrices and the correlation analyses it appears that the community composition of the effluent is similar but not identical to the community composition of the granular sludge.

the presence of predatory bacteria like bdellovibrio has been reported earlier in granular sludge wan et al.

these genera are usually present in conventional activated sludge ecosystems but in lower abundances in the seed sludge the cumulative relative read abundance of eps producers was only 13. many of the eps producing genera typical for sewage treatment plants are mixotrophic bacteria capable of denitrification andor pha production etchebehere et al.

eps was earlier reported to play an important role in the formation and mechanical stability of granular sludge weber et al.

water res 332283-2290beun jj heijnen jj van loosdrecht mcm 2001 n-removal in a granular sludge sequencing batch airlift reactor.

isme j 2528-541. doili y-m zou j zhang l sun j 2014 aerobic granular sludge for simultane- ous accumulation of mineral phosphorus and removal of nitrogen via nitrite in wastewater.

r package version 2.3-2. pronk m de kreuk mk de bruin b kamminga p kleerebezem r van loos- drecht mcm 2015 full scale performance of the aerobic granular sludge process for sewage treatment.

rocktaschel t klarmann c ochoa j boisson p sorensen k horn h 2015 influ- ence of the granulation grade on the concentration of suspended solids in the effluent of a pilot scale sequencing batch reactor operated with aerobic granular sludge.

appl environ microbiol 61702-707suja e nancharaiah yv krishna mohan tv venugopalan vp 2015 denitrifica- tion accelerates granular sludge formation in sequencing batch reactors.

