in cattle of 1522 species-level otus only 380 otus were abundant otus 28 abundant otus were shared between cattle and buffalo which constitute 6.5 of total abundant otus.methanobrevibacter sequences of cattle origin were clustered into 688 unique present in cattle but not in buffalo species- level otus 190 abundant otus and 201 shared with buf- falo species-level otus 152 abundant otus.

percentage of methanomicrobium was much higher p  0.05 in the case of buffalo 18 than that of cattle 4.5. on the other hand percentages of methanosphaera- and methanomassiliicoccus-like methanogens were much higher p  0.05 in cattle than in buffaloes.conclusion this study indicated that there is a substantial difference in community structure of ruminal methanogens of cattle and buffaloes.

the study has also indicated that the percent of species-level operational taxonomic units shared between cattle and buffalo is very low and thus host species-specific methane mitigation strategies need to be developed for cattle and buffaloes.c 2016 society of chemical industrykeywords archaea rumen buffalo 16s rdna cattle diversityintroductionreducing enteric ch4 emissions has been identified as one key way of lowering global ch4 emissions.

according to all three classification methods methanobrevibacter was found to be the most predominant genus both in cattle 69 - 71 of sequences as well as buffaloes 65.1 - 68.9 of sequences and the difference due to host species was non-significant p  0.10. the percentage of methanomicrobium was much higher p  0.01 in the case of buffalo 18 than that in cattle 4.5. similarly the percentage of methanobacterium was higher p  0.01 in buffaloes than in cattle.

methanomicrococcus was represented by a few sequences belonging to the species m. blatticola.ruminal methanogen sequences of buffalo were clustered into 900 species-level otus and 677 genus level otus whereas rumi- nal methanogen sequences of cattle were clustered into 1522wileyonlinelibrary.comjsfac 2016 society of chemical industryj sci food agric 2017 97 3284 - 3293species-level otus and 1004 genus level otus figs 3 and 4. the number of species-level otus shared between cattle and buffaloes were 229 10.4 of all otus comprising 1746 sequences 27 of total sequences 862 sequences of buffalo and 3839 sequences of cattle were not shared fig.

the present study indicated that methanobrevibacter is the most predominant genus in cattle as well as buffaloes the percentage of methanomicrobium is much higher in the case of buffaloes than in cattle and the percentage of methanosphaera- and methanomassiliicoccus-like methanogens is much higher in cattle than in buffaloes.

in this study the collective comparative diversity of methanogenic archaea in the rumen of cattle and buffaloes was examined by performing a meta-analysis of all the 16s rrna rrn sequences deposited in genbank.results ruminal methanogen sequences of buffalo were clustered into 900 species-level operational taxonomic units otus and ruminal methanogen sequences of cattle were clustered into 1522 species level otus.

the host plays an important role in determining microbial community struc- ture in the rumen.5 hence development of methane mitigation strategies and improving feed efficiency require comprehensivelivestock respectively.8 with a global population of at least 193 million animals the water buffalo bubalus bubalis is an important ruminant species in many regions of the world including asia north africa southern europe and south america.9 compared to cattle the water buffalo is more resistant to disease and parasites and it has a higher adaptability to ambient and local conditions making it a very suitable livestock choice in tropical regions.10 the nutritional value and health benefits of water buffalo meat and milk products are considered by some to be superior to cattle.11 buffaloes possess an inherent ability to utilize dietary fiber and protein more efficiently than cattle.1213 the buffalo population is showing a faster growth rate than cattle in india.

thus we hypothesized that the overall diversity of the archaea of cattle and buffalo can be better defined by a comprehensive analysis of all 16s ribosomal rna gene sequences both published and unpublished recovered from rumen of cattle and buffaloes.

nlm.nih.govgenbank database on 15 march 2016 using the search term 'archaea orgn and cattle src or cow src or bos src and 16s rrna titl or 16s ribosomal rna titland rumen src or ruminal src' for cattle sequences and 'archaea orgn and buffalo src or bubalus src and 16s rrna titl or 16s ribosomal rna titl and rumen src orruminal src' for buffalo sequences.

after removing non-archaeal sequences short homopolymeric and chimeric sequences 5067 sequences from cattle rumen origin and 1380 sequences of buffalo rumen origin were obtained which were utilized for analysis.figure 3. venn diagram showing unique and shared species-level otus between cattle and buffaloes.

the predominant species in the methanobacterium genus was m. flexile in both cattle and buffaloes figs 1 and 2. methanosarcina was represented by five sequences two m. barkeri and three m. mazei isolates in cattle and no methanosarcina sequence was detected in buffalo.

unpublished.the methanomicrobium sequences were represented by 41 species-level otus unique to cattle 207 otus unique to buffalo and four otus shared between cattle and buffaloes.

2011 unpublished and malaysian cattle.35the methanosphaera genus was represented by 222 species-level otus unique to cattle 11 species-level otus unique to buffalo and two otus shared between cattle and buffalo.the largest cattle-specific species-level otu had 44 sequences of uncultured archaea originated from usa.28 in buffalo all unique species-level methanosphaera otus were singleton.

the largest buffalo-specific methanomassili- icoccacae otu contained two sequences comprising uncultured sequences originated from indian water buffalo.32 the largest shared methanomassiliicoccacae otu comprised 16 sequences of uncultured archaea originated from cattle of china37 pei and zhu unpublished canada34 malayasia35 and water buffalo of brazil.31estimates of otu richnessdetailed diversity indices have been presented in table 2. for cattle ace cho 1 and rarefaction analysis predicted 6116 3824 and 2116 expected species-level otus in the population versus 1522 otus observed in the present study.

