only t120's ion v4 numbers dropped below the previous threshold for rarefaction from 3203 reads to 3042. for t120 ion v4 the diversity measures when control reads were removed from the tick sample are reported for rarefaction at 3042 reads.clusteringpatterns of variation among ticks and v regions were visualized with principal components analysis pca using the 'princomp' function set to cor  true in r statistical package v3.1.3  analysis was based on 86 combinations of ticks and v regions including data from 12 ticks and 6 ion 16s partitions v2 v3 v4 v67 v8 and summed 9 ticks for mr dna v4 and 5 ticks for custom reads summed for v12 and v56.

interestingly in these cases the mr dna v4 assay clustered more closely to the summed ion assay than the ion v4 assay did.the observation that mr dna data gave estimates of bacte- rial read proportions and diversity measures that were generally similar to those obtained from the ion 16s kit raises the question of whether the single v4 mr dna assay can replace the multiple assays of the ion 16s kit.

we found that the 16s ion summed data did usually give a high estimate of numbers of bacterial families for each tick but interestingly the v4 estimate from the 16s kit was highest for five ticks and the v3 estimate was highest for four ticks  demonstrated that sequenc- ing errors had a significant effect on overestimation of microbiome diversity estimates especially richness number of families and ion pgm data is especially sensitive to this effect.

sequencing was performed on an ion torrent pgm using a 316 version 2 chip 400 bp read chemistry and torrent suite 3.4.2. expected amplicon sizes based on e. coli averaged 340 bp a. as with the other two library preparations ion reporter software 5.2 was used to trim and process reads.to establish baseline levels of dna found in the environment and in extraction reagents the ion 16s kit samples also included a sham tick extraction control.

overall the amplicons from ion 16s kit across multiple v regions detected more bacterial diversity than the v4 amplification used by mr dna while our custom primers based on v12 and v56 detected the least.comparisons among all nine i. scapularis ticks including the four from ontario allow further evaluation of the mr dna and ion 16s preparations the four i. scapularis from ontario had a very different assemblage of bacteria than those from atlantic canada.

spirochaetaceae and moraxellaceae in t098 and burkholderaceae in ji315 reflecting the possible use of different primers in the v4 amplicons of these two library preparations.the bacterial families identified from reads for the three i.angustus ticks from western canada were only assayed using the six amplicons from the ion 16s kit  as with the atlantic versus ontario i. scapularis these ticks had very different assem- blages at the bacterial family level.

the commercially available ion 16s kit based on 6 amplicons representing 16s regions v2 v3 v4 v67 v8 and v9 gave the most compre- hensive estimates of bacterial families with the ion v4 amplicon generally giving the highest estimated diversity.

sequencing was performed on an ion torrent pgm using a 318 chip 400 bp read lengths and torrent suite 4.2.1. ion reporter metagenomics 16s software version 5.2 was used to trim and pro- cess reads.a second library was also constructed for the nine i. scapularis specimens.

raw sequencing fasta qual and mapping files were returned and first reassembled into fastq files using make.fastq command in mothur v.1.36.1 and then converted into bam files using the fastqtosam 1.126.0 utility of picard in galaxy toolshed at usegalaxy.org the v4 primers were trimmed as forward gtgycagcmgccgcggtaa and reverse atta- gawacccbngtagtcc using ion reporter.dna from five atlantic i. scapularis was used in the third library preparation which involved amplification of 16s v12 and 16s v56 in two separate reactions using custom primers tailed with glenn forward and trp1 reverse sequences to serve as primer binding locations in a second pcr that incorporated ion torrent specific emulsion and sequencing sites and a custom barcode.

tick 10 ji164 had no v9 region reads.or ontario i. scapularis while i. angustus generally had the lowest numbers of families but not shannon indices.comparisons among amplicons representing separate popula- tion estimates in the bacterial composition of each tick showed no uniform patterns for the 16s kit and mr dna data although the number of bacterial families per tick was usually high for the v4 ion amplicon and the summed 16s ion kit data the summed custom amplicons gave the lowest estimates of bacterial families and shannon indices.

the second comparison is between the v4 amplicons from the ion 16s kit and the mr dna service which are very similar if not identical in size and location although the primers cannot be compared since those from the ion 16s kit are proprietary.

low diversity values obtained for the custom primer sets reflects the paucity of low-frequency families detected although the common families rickettsiaceae and spirochaetaceae largely mirrored the propor- tions found with ion 16s amplicons and mr dna.removal of reads in proportion to their detection in an extrac-tion control sample for the 16s ion kit reduced both the expected number of bacterial families and their shannon index by a sub- stantial margin suppl.

nonetheless the extraction control sample in our study clearly demonstrated the importance of considering contamination in microbiome surveys especially the potential for erroneous iden- tification of contaminating dna as being present in the tick sample rather than in the extraction kit.principal components analysis illustrated the consistency of bacterial frequency profiles for each tick as well as allowing visual- ization of trends among specimens and geographic regions  different amplicons for each tick usually clustered by specimen although the ion v4 and ion v67 amplicons gave ambigous clus- tering for several specimens.

all five ticks had a noticeably higher proportion of bacterial families identified as 'other' for the ion 16s and mr dna prepara-tions than the custom preparations but they usually remained at low frequency.

the most notable exceptions concerned ion 16s v4 and v67 from two i. scapu- laris ticks from ontario ji315 and ji317 and one from the atlantic t098.

