combined with the published database of bacteria known to inhibit b. dendrobatidis we used the network analysis to identify bacteria that negatively correlated with b. dendrobatidis and thus could be good probiotic candidates in the cascades frog system.keywords microbiome micro-eukaryote network skin rana cascadae batrachochytrium dendrobatidis cascades frogintroductionmicrobial symbionts of vertebrate hosts facilitate many biological processes such as nutrient acquisition host behavior training of the adaptive immune system and protection against environmental pathogens      .

we filtered the bacterial sequences against a published database of bacteria known to inhibit b. dendrobatidis in co-culture to estimate the proportion of the skin bacterial community that is likely to provide defense against b. dendrobatidis.

we applied a network analysis to examine patterns of correlation between bacterial taxa and b. dendrobatidis as well as micro-eukaryotic taxa and b. dendrobatidis.

here we see the proportional abundance of b. dendrobatidis is highest on all six subadults compared with eight out of eleven adults revealing high proportional abundance of b. dendrobatidis supplementary figure b. the combined patterns for proportion abundance using the full dataset are supported by the proportion abundance patterns using the rarefied dataset supplementary figure c.a list of the most abundant micro-eukaryotic otus found on r. cascadae whether or not they were known to be pathogenic and a brief description of where else they have been observed is found in supplementary table 1. surprisingly we found nine otus of fungi six otus of stramenopiles and five otus of metazoa represented the majority of the micro- eukaryotic community.

specifically taxa that negatively correlate with b. dendrobatidis and also match expected b. dendrobatidis-inhibitory database included comamonadaceae 3 - otu's 270402 536916 and 823696 enterobacteriaceae 2 - otus 537871 and 783638 pseudomonadaceae 1 - otu 279948 and bacillus 1 - otu 321618. janthinobacterium lividum otu 351280 a common antifungal bacterial isolate was also found to negatively correlate with b. dendrobatidis .

dendrobatidis and more specifically pezizomycetidae should also be tested for their bioactivity against b. dendrobatidis.

individuals of various life stages of cascades frogs were sampled from a population located in the trinity alps in northern california during an epidemic of the chytrid fungus batrachochytrium dendrobatidis.

the amphibian skin microbiome has become an active area of research due to the protective role that some bacteria provide against batrachochytrium dendrobatidis an emerging fungal skin pathogen    .

here we use a parallel approach 18s rrna marker gene sequencing to explore micro-eukaryotic diversity alongside bacterial diversity on the skin of endangered cascades frogs rana cascadae.bacterial-derived skin defenses have been experimentally shown to mitigate b. dendrobatidis infection       however interactions of other fungal taxa and micro-eukaryotes withb.

dendrobatidis remain underexplored.

dendrobatidis.

previous field studies and lab experiments have demonstrated that individuals of species which have a higher proportion of their skin bacterial community composed of b. dendrobatidis- inhibitory taxa have lower abundance of b. dendrobatidis on their skin      .

thus b. dendrobatidis-inhibitory bacteria negatively interacting with b. dendrobatidis within these networks are of special interest for conservation.cascades frogs are found in the cascade and olympic mountains in the pacific northwest region of the united states.

they have declined precipitously as a result of trout reintroduction and more recently b. dendrobatidis   .

in northern california the cascadesfrog population at section line lake experienced a decline in juvenile frogs 99 attributed to b. dendrobatidis between 2009 and 2012  .

