The second round of PCR used the bar- coded V2-V3 primers 104F 5-GGCGVACGGGTGAG- TAA-3 and 519R 5-GTNTTACNGCGGCKGCTG-3.The dilutions and barcoded primers used for each samplecan be found in Additional file The PCR conditions were 98 degC for 30 s followed by 20 cycles of 98 degC for 10 s 67 degC for 30 s and 72 degC for 10 s followed by a final exten- sion step of 72 degC for 2 min.

The impact of the lung microbiota on human health is a rapidly growing area of research.

Recognising the utility of large animal models in this regard and the anatomical and immunologicalc The Authors.

The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.relevance of sheep as models - our group has previously used this species to explore the changes in the lung microbiota upon Pseudomonas aeruginosa in- fection and to explore the spatial variability present within the healthy lung Subclinical microaspiration of pharyngeal secretions is a feature of health and this can contribute to the lung microbiota composition and the microbiome of the human lungs more closely resembles that of the mouth than that of the nose or the lower gastrointestinal tract It is not yet known whether the same relationship holds for species other than humans.

The selected sampling site was then heat seared and 50 ml of sterile phosphate-buffered salinePBS was injected through the seared section into the tracheal lumen.

The head and neck were oriented such that the PBS would flow caudally down the thorax.

The lamb cadavers were then tipped so that the PBS would run caudally into their lungs and then tipped back again so that the fluid would collect in the tracheal lumen immediately caudal to the position of the second clamp.

The supernatant was removed and the pellets were resuspended in 500 ml PBS.

The oropha- ryngeal swabs and lung fluids were stored at -80 degC until DNA extraction.DNA extraction amplification and sequencingDNA extractions using the PowerSoil DNA isolation Kit Mo Bio Carlsbad USA and quantitative PCR qPCR using the 16S rRNA gene qPCR primers UniF340 5- ACTCCTACGGGAGGCAGCAGT-3 and UniR514 5-ATTACCGCGGCTGCTGGC-3 were performed as de- scribed previously Extraction kit reagent controls consisting of reagent-only extractions were produced for every day DNA extractions were performed.

The first round of PCR amplified the V1-V4 16S hypervariable regions using the primers 28F 5-GAGTTTGATCNTGGCTCAG-3 and 805R 5-GACTACCAGGGTATCTAATC-3.

