cdrs were significantly lower in galla chinensis extracts groups and naf group than in ddw group anova p  0.05. however cdrs were significantly higher in gce group than in egce group tannic acid and naf group anova p  0.05. no significant differences of cdrs were observed among egce tannic acid and naf groups anova p  0.05. the data show that all galla chinensis extracts could inhibit enamel demineralization and gce was less effective than egce and tannic acid.fig.

gce egce and tannic acid could significantly reduce the acid production and cfu counting compared with ddw group anova p  0.05 whereas egce and tannic acid were more effective than gce anova p  0.05. the data showed egce and tannic acid could inhibit the acid formation and biofilm formation in polymicrobial biofilms.fig.

the hplc-dad chromatograms of tannic acid at 270 nm.determination of ga content in gcega content is 71.3-0.2 2.8-0.02 and 0.5-0.003 ww in gce egce and tannic acid respectively indicating that gce contained a high amount of ga while egce and tannic acid had little.effects on demineralization of bovine enamelthe cdrs analysis is presented in fig.

the mz values revealed that gce were mixtures consisting mainly of ga and its isomer and 1-3 galloylglucopyranoses ggs while egce mainly contained ga and 4-7 ggs and tannic acid mainly contained 5-10 ggs.table 1. the main molecular mass range corresponding compounds and mz values observed from negative ion experiments with hplc-tof-ms for egce and gce and tannic acid.a 1-10ggs represented galloylglucopyranose di-galloylglucopyranose tri-galloylglucopyranose tetra-galloylglucopyranose penta- galloylglucopyranose hexa-galloylglucopyranose hepta-galloylglucopyranose octa-galloylglucopyranose ennea-galloylglucopyranose deca-  - .b 169 331 483 635 787 939 1091 1243 1395 1547 and 1699 would match with the m-h- ions of gallic acid 1-10ggs respectively.fig.

all the gce egce and tannic acid contained high level of total phenolics while egce and tannic acid had more tannin than gce indicating these two extracts had stronger capability to precipitate proteins.

the present study focused on the comparison of composition and anticaries effect of galla chinensis extracts with different isolation methods aiming to improve the efficacy of caries prevention.methodsthe composition of water extract gce ethanol extract egce and commercial tannic acid was compared.

in vitro ph-cycling regime and polymicrobial biofilms model were used to assess the ability of different galla chinensis extracts to inhibit enamel demineralization acid formation and biofilm formation.resultsall the gce egce and tannic acid contained a high level of total phenolics.

hplc-esi-tof-ms analysis showed that the main ingredients of gce were gallic acid ga while egce mainly contained 4-7 galloylglucopyranoses ggs and tannic acid mainly contained 5-10 ggs.

furthermore egce and tannic acid showed a better effect on inhibiting enamel demineralization acid formation and biofilm formation compared to gce.conclusionsgalla chinensis extracts with higher tannin content were suggested to have higher potential to prevent dental caries.keywords galla chinensis gallic acid composition dental caries cariogenic microbiota.

given the complex chemical nature of natural products it still remains a challenge to screen bioactive component and optimize the isolation methods which may finally yield the best anti-caries effect.therefore the purpose of this study was to chemically characterize three galla chinensis extracts aqueous extract gce ethanol extract egce and tannic acid gallotannin extracted from galla chinensis and to compare their anticaries effects and identify the most effective galla chinensis extract as an anticaries agent.materials and methodsplant materialgalla chinensis origin sichuan province china was purchased from china tong ren tang drugstore chengdu china and authenticated by prof. jing huang in the institute of naturally occurring drugs of sichuan university chengdu china.extraction of galla chinensisgalla chinensis 2 kg was dried in an oven at 60 degc for 3 days and then finely powdered.

each sample was performed in quadruplicate.high performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry analysisgce egce and tannic acid were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization-time of flight-mass spectrometry hplc-esi-tof-ms  a tandem system.

then forty specimens were selected from a batch of 420 specimens with baseline smh between388.7 and 436.1 knoop hardness number khn.the specimens were randomly divided into the following 5 treatment groups each n10 4.0 mgml gce solution 4.0 mgml egce solution 4.0 mgml tannic acid solution 1 mgml naf solution positive control deionized distilled water ddw negative control.

a saliva-glycerol stock was added 150 final dilution as inoculum and the microtiter plates were incubated anaerobically at 37 degc for a total period of 48h with refreshments of the medium after 8 24 and 32 h. subsequently the disks were immersed into one of the following eight treatment solutions 4 mgml gce solution 4 mgml egce solution 4 mgml tannic acid solution or ddw for 1 h. after treatment biofilms were harvested in pbs solution.

egce and tannic acid had more tannin than gce indicating these two extracts had stronger capability to precipitate proteins.fig.

1. total phenolics n3 and tannin content n4 of gce egce and tannic acid.hplc-esi-tof-ms analysishplc-dad chromatograms demonstrated that gce consists of several components fig.

