in addition no amino acid decarboxylasesvolume 5 issue 17 e00205-17 1linares et al.associated with biogenic amines biosynthesis or virulence-related genes were identi- fied in this genome.the s. thermophilus apc151 genome showed a high degree of identity to that of strain s. thermophilus nd03 genbank accession no.

in addition this commensal bacterium is one of the pioneer colonizers of oral and small intestine mucosal surfaces in newborns  and remains predominant in the oropharyngeal   and gastrointestinal  tracts throughout the human life span.based on the potential beneficial effects on human health it is sometimes marketed as a probiotic .we here report the genome of streptococcus thermophilus apc151 a strain isolated from the digestive tract of a marine fish that produces large amounts of gamma- aminobutyric acid gaba .

prokaryotescomplete genome sequence of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-producing strain streptococcus thermophilus apc151daniel m. linaresab silvia arboleyaab r. paul rossabc catherine stantonabfood biosciences department teagasc food research centre moorepark fermoy county cork irelanda apc microbiome institute university college cork cork irelandb school of microbiology university college cork cork irelandcabstract here is presented the whole-genome sequence of streptococcus thermophi- lus apc151 isolated from a marine fish.

its complete genome comprises 2097 genes and 1839134 nucleotides with an average gc content of 39.1.treptococcus thermophilus is a nonpathogenic homofermentative facultative an- aerobic lactic acid bacterium with a long history of use in the artisanal and modern industrial manufacture of fermented dairy products especially yogurt .

2010. lactic acid bacterial cell factories for gamma- aminobutyric acid.

.linares dm o'callaghan tf o'connor pm ross rp stanton c. 2016. streptococcus thermophilus apc151 strain is suitable for the manufacture of naturally gaba-enriched bioactive yogurt.

.mignolet j fontaine l kleerebezem m hols p. 2016. complete genome sequence of streptococcus salivarius hsiss4 a human commensal bac- terium highly prevalent in the digestive tract.

this bacterium produces gamma-aminobutyric acid gaba in high yields and is biotechnologically suitable to produce naturally gaba- enriched biofunctional yogurt.

the nucleotide sequence of s. thermophilus was resolved utilizing pacbio single-molecule real-time smrt technology on an rs system gatc biotech konstanz germany.

in addition strain apc151 acquired a number of mutations that disrupted or caused a frameshift in seven genes encoding two transposases two acyltransferases the phosphate-transport-atp-binding protein pstb the r3-carotene 15-15-monooxygenase and the substrate-specific component mtsa methionine-regulated ecf transporter.these data are intended to increase the availability of the genomes of gaba- producing s. thermophilus strains in order to better understand their biodiversity and their potential technological probiotic and biofunctional properties.accession numbers.

.shimada m hasegawa t nishimura c kan h kanno t nakamura t matsubayashi t. 2009. anti-hypertensive effect of gamma- aminobutyric acid gaba-rich chlorella on high-normal blood pres- sure and borderline hypertension in placebo-controlled double blind study.

2013. effect of cheese containing gamma- aminobutyric acid-producing lactic acid bacteria on blood pressure in men.

2014. genomic insights into high exopolysaccharide-producing dairy starter bacterium streptococcus ther- mophilus ascc 1275. sci rep 44974.

int j paediatr dent 19406 - 411.

.bik em long cd armitage gc loomer p emerson j mongodin ef nelson ke gill sr fraser-liggett cm relman da.

