furthermore d. punctata embryos may ac- quire non-blattabacterium bacteria from the environment in the interval between deposition into the vestibule in the female ab-sampleschao1groupsembryos from gravid female 218.00embryos embryos from gravid female 38.00embryos embryos from gravid female 420.50embryos embryos from gravid female 524.00embryosgravid female 337.50femalesgravid female 434.00femalesgravid female 534.00femalesgravid female 735.33femalesnon-gravid female 131.50femalesnon-gravid female 414.00femalesnon-gravid female 710.00femalesrichness estimates were significantly higher in females 28.5 - 3.08 mean - s.e than in developing embryos 15.4 - 3.08 wilcoxonkruskal-wallis test kh 2  5.4 df  1 p  0.02 a  0.05 indicating greater microbial diversity in the female gut microbiomes.figure 2. nmds stress  0.07 plot showing similarities and differences in bacte- rial community composition i.e.

non-gravid female n  3 and orphan embryo n  3 samples are grouped to the right.between female and embryo groups in jmp 10 sas inc. cary nc usa.

there were no significant differences in chao1 richness estimates among females or embryos kruskal-wallis chi-square kh 2  15 df  15 p  0.45 however mean chao1 richness estimate was sig- nificantly higher in female samples than in embryo samples kruskal-wallis chi-square kh 2  5.4 df  1 p  0.02 table .consistent with the difference in richness estimates between embryos and females we also found significant dissimilarity in microbial community composition between designated a priori embryo and female samples mrpp a  0.11 p  0.001 1000 per- mutations.

the only associated gravid female and develop- ing embryo pair female 4-embryo 4 that clustered together are indicated with dashed arrows.this may be the inoculum remains to be investigated.

however important aspects of the gut microbial ecology of d. punctata such as differences between male and female gut- associated microbiota gravid and non-gravid females gut micro- biota and gravid females and embryo-associated microbiota re- main to be investigated.in this study we characterized for the first time the micro- biota associated with developing embryos of d. punctata and the gut microbiota of associated laboratory-reared females.

wings and appendages of females were removed and the body surface-sterilized by rinsing once in 70 ethanol and 10 bleach solution for 30 s and twice in milli-q water for 30 s. upon dissection intact clusters of associated developing embryos usually 10-12 per cluster were removed without rup- turing the digestive tract of the female and rinsed once in 1x phosphate buffered saline pbs ph  7.4 0.1m and placed into1.5 ml tubes for dna extraction.

contamination of embryo sam- ples by bacteria from female guts during dissection was avoided since the location and structure of the brood sac enabled thesterile removal of embryos without injury to the digestive tract.

additionally the entire digestive tract of three non-gravid females from the same colony and three or- phan embryo samples obtained from females from the same colony but not included in this study were also processed for dna extraction.genomic dna was extracted using the qiagen dneasy blood and tissue kit hilden germany according to the manufac- turer's protocol following homogenization of female alimentary tracts and embryo samples using sterile bio plas plastic pestles bioplas inc san rafael ca usa in 1x pbs.

overall eight em- bryonic and eight female gut dna samples were obtained.

the resulting taxonomic information was subsequently appended to the orig- inal otu table for downstream analyses.analyses of community structuresignificant differences in otu abundances among female and embryo samples were examined in qiime using the group significance.py command and the default non-parametric kruskal-wallis analysis of variance anova in qiime.

chao1 species richness estimates chao  were calculated for analysis of within-sample diversity followed by a non- parametric test of significance among individual samples andayayee et al.3figure 1. relative abundance  of the 42 bacterial families detected in female and embryo d. punctata samples.

the degree of similar- ity or dissimilarity among female and embryo-associated mi- crobiota was assessed using the multivariate response permuta- tion procedure mrpp mielke  on the bray-curtis distance matrix via the 'compare categories.py' command in qiime with 1000 permutations qiime version.

1.9.1. a non-metric multidi- mensional scaling nmds kruskal  plot was then gener- ated using the distance matrix to infer pairwise relatedness of female and embryo samples.

in this plot the proximity of sam- ples indicates similarity of microbial community composition.resultscomposition of female gut-associated and embryo-associated microbiotaafter filtering out plant plastids and archaea a total of 287 964 itags were classified into 157 otus and summarized into 9 phyla 16 classes 23 orders 42 families and 59 genera.

within-sample variabil- ity was observed in terms of type and abundance of bacterial families detected in female and embryo samples fig.

