they found that fibrosis stage and to a lesser extent liver histological feature of nash are associated with the long-term outcome of nafld patients 34. meta-analysis of nafld progressionto enable better molecular understanding of the progres- sion of nafld a meta-analysis methods described in sup- porting information materials and methods of publicly accessible nafld datasets was performed fig.

the ratio of firmicutes to bacteroidetes the two main gut- residing bacterial phyla increases with obesity 64 and there is an inverse correlation between bacteroidetes per- centage and steatohepatitis 65. in addition an overall reduction of bacterial diversity has been associated with obesity 66. interestingly transplanting the gut microbiome of mice with nafld into wildtype mice resulted in an increase in the disease in the latter animals demonstrating that nafld is transplantable 67. dysbiosis is also responsi- ble for metabolic endotoxemia where increased circulating lipopolysaccharids lps trigger inflammatory reactions also in the liver 68. in addition the gut barrier gets leaky because tight-junctions between gut cells get disrupted under high fat diets 69. this leakiness allows lps to enter the blood system and to contribute to the systemic low grade inflammation typically associated with nafld 69. besides these phenomena it has also been observed that a couple of other metabolism related pathways which are influenced by the gut microbiome are changed in nafld as for example choline fatty and bile acid metabolism or the production of endogenous ethanol for a detailed review on these processes please refer to kirpich et al.

another aspect gain- ing attention in the nafld community is the role of polyunsat- urated fatty acids pufas in the pathogenesis of nafld and nash 7. arendt et al.

found lower hepatic pufas in patients with nash compared to simple steatosis--possibly due to over- expression of fads1 and fads2 8.disease-models for nafld and nash have been proposed9 but a better understanding of the complex mechanisms involved in nafld and its progression will only be possible when patient-specific differences are accounted for.

this can be achieved by disease-models based on hepatocyte-like cells derived from induced pluripotent stem cells ipscs 10.here we review and analyse the progress of nafld from steatosis to nash employing previously published gene expression datasets 11-13 and examine which of the bio- markers signaling and metabolic pathways found in this meta-analysis are manifested in the progression from low- to high-grade steatosis 13. genome-wide association studiesgwas has identified polymorphisms in numerous genes such as patatin-like phospholipase domain containing protein pnpla3 14 and transmembrane 6 superfamily member 2 tm6sf2 4 which correlate with nafld.

the relevant pnpla3 rs738409 i148m variant has a minor allele frequen- cy maf of 49 in hispanics 23 in those of european ancestry and 17 in african americans 15 which is much higher than maf for the relevant tm6sf2 polymorphism rs58542926 e167k of 7 in europeans 4 in hispanics and 2 in african americans 16. individuals with these variants have a higher risk of developing nafld pnpla3 rs738409 odds ratioor 5 3.26 95 ci 2.11-7.21 3 tm6sf2rs58542926 or 5 2.13 95 ci 1.36-3.30 17. howeverthe variants are only one piece of the jigsaw in the develop- ment of nafld as there are many individuals carrying the var- iants but are disease-free.

the term epigenetics describes heri- table changes in gene expression patterns that are not encoded directly within the dna but are rather determined by associated factors such as dna methylation or histone modifications 55. although heritable epigenetic modifica- tions can be altered during a cell's lifespan in response to environmental conditions 55. as the liver is the main meta- bolic organ it is exposed to nutrition derived factors that can influence its epigenetic signature 56. with acetyl-coa--the input to fatty-acid synthesis--and s-adenosylmethionine two main factors that are required for epigenetic modifications of histones and dna are directly linked to glucose or methionine metabolism respectively 56. it has been demonstrated that histone acetylation contributes to nafld via activation of lipogenic and glycolytic genes while deviations from the ideallevel of s-adenosylmethionine are linked to lipogenesis accu- mulation of hepatic triglycerides and nafld 56. however epigenetic factors are only suitable as biomarkers when they can be determined in easily accessible lymphocytes.

for example the expression mirna-122 which accounts for 70 of the total liver mirnas is highly upregulated in the blood of nafld patients 60 61. additionally blood levels of mirna-34a and 16 are also upregulated in nafld patients compared to healthy controls.

the nafld fibrosis score a noninvasive sys- tem that identifies liver fibrosis in patients with nafld.

uni-duesseldorf.dereceived march 14 2016 accepted for publication june 18 2016 first published online in stem cells express july 4 2016.vc alphamed press1066-5099201630.000 10.1002stem.2454 abstractconsidered a feature of the metabolic syndrome nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld is associated with insulin resistance type 2 diabetes obesity and drug toxicity.

genome-wide association studies have identified polymorphisms in several genes for example pnpla3 and tm6sf2 which confer susceptibility to nafld.

here we review recent findings in the nafld field with a particular focus on published transcriptomics datasets which we subject to a meta-analysis.

stem cells 20173589-96 significance statementthe continuously increasing prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld estimated at approximately 30 in western countries and the paucity of available publications incorporating epidemiology genome-wide association studies epigenetics and meta-analysis of transcriptome data served as impetus for this review article.

we also propose the implementation of patient- specific disease models based on induced pluripotent stem cells differentiated into hepatocytes and challenged with oleic acid to enable a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the etiology of nafld.

introductionnonalcoholic fatty liver disease nafld has an increasingly large impact on public health as it is estimated at about 30 prevalence in west- ern countries.

