The majority of isolates consisted of aerobic gram- positive cocci such as S. aureus 6 strains 8 S. epidermidis 32 strains 41 including MRSE 19 strains other coagulase- negative staphylococci CNS 4 strains 5 and Streptococcus spp.

5.1 and P. acnes 35.6 S. aureus gram-negative bacteria or fungi were detected.Comparison of Bacterial Isolates Between the Xa and Tz GroupsThe positive culture rates from the Xa and Tz groups were 88.9 46 strains and 92.6 33 strains respectively with noConjunctival Bacteria Flora of Glaucoma PatientsIOVS j August 2017 j Vol.

The frequency of multiple-resistant S. epidermidis showing resistance against more than three antibiotics among fluoroquinolones one or more of levofloxacin gatifloxacin moxifloxacin cephalosporins one or more of ceftazidime and cefmenoxime aminoglycosides tobramycin chlorampheni- col and macrolides erythromycin was 68 1319 strains in the Xa group 23 313 strains in the Tz group and 27 8 30 strains in the healthy control group.

We isolated four MSSE strains and 15 MRSE strains in the Xa group and isolated 10 MSSE strains and three MRSE strains in the Tz group indicating that MRSE was significantly more frequently isolated in the Xa group Fig.

P  0.05 Fisher's exact test Xa versus Tz P0.0033 Xa versus Ht P0.0031 Tz versus Ht P 0.7203 Ht healthy control group.the logistic regression model and did not have statistically significantinfluence P 14 0.2202.The MIC50 and MIC90 values of levofloxacin gatifloxacin moxifloxacin cefmenoxime tobramycin and erythromycin against the S. epidermidis isolates from the Xa group were significantly higher than those against isolates from the Tz group Table 3.

3 strains 4 gram-negative bacteria 3 strains 4 other gram-positive bacteria 4 strains 5 and facultative anaerobes including Propionibacterium acnes 29 strains 33.

Numbers of Isolated StrainsPropionibacterium granulosum12Propionibacterium sp.1Klebsiella oxytoca10Morganella morganii1Seratia sp.1Total463359significant difference in the distribution of bacterial isolates between groups Table 2.In the Xa and Tz groups S. epidermidis was the most common isolate detected 40 followed by P. acnes S. aureus and CNS in descending order Table 2.

Compared with the control group the Xa group but not the Tz group had a significantly higher number of MRSE isolates.We further evaluated the influence of the duration of use of Xa and Tz on the methicillin resistance rates of S. epidermidis using logistic regression with duration of use as a covariate.

Comparison of the MICs of S. epidermidis Between the Shorter-Term and Longer-Term Xa Groups With Those of the Tz GroupP values were calculated using Fisher's exact test and Student's t-test.agents in the eyes of patients using Xa than in the eyes of patients using Tz could be the development of cross-resistance due to BAC resistance.

For Staphylococcus epider- midis a MIC of oxacillin of less than or equal to 2 lgmL was considered to indicate methicillin-susceptible S. epidermidis MSSE and a MIC of greater than or equal to 4 lgmL was considered to indicate methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis MRSE.Statistical AnalysisFor specimens obtained from each prostaglandin analog group and healthy controls the bacterial positivity rate distribution of bacterial isolates MIC50 MIC90 and drug susceptibility rates were analyzed which were compared among prostaglandin analogs and between the respective prostaglandin analogs and the control.

