nevertheless disruption of the indigenous bacterial community as a result of factors such as diet or antibiotic exposure can result in dysbiotic assemblages that favor acquisition or propagation of infectious agents and the development of disease .fecal microbiota transplantation fmt involves the transfer of the microbiota from the stool of a healthy indi- vidual to the intestinal tract of a recipient patient with a dysbiotic microbiota.

review articlecontemporary applications of fecal microbiota transplantation to treat intestinal diseases in humanschristopher staleyalexander khorutsand michael j. sadowskyabiotechnology institute university of minnesota saint paul mn usabdivision of gastroenterology and center for immunology department of medicine university of minnesota minneapolis mn usacdepartment of soil water and climate ddepartment of plant and microbial biology university of minnesota saint paul mn usareceived for publication october 12 2017 accepted november 15 2017 arcmed-d-17-00579.the intestinal microbiota comprise an important organ that plays a vital role in host digestion development energy maintenance hemostasis and immunity.

fecal microbiota transplantation fmt in- volves the transfer of gut microbiota from a healthy donor to a patient in order to restore normal diversity and function of the microbial community.

c 2017 published by elsevier inc. on behalf of imss.key words clostridium difficile diseases dysbiosis inflammatory bowel disease fecal microbiota transplantation metabolic syndrome.introductionover the last several decades the gut microbiota has been identified as an organ-like assemblage that plays a critical role in host development energy production metabolism and immunity .

cohousing mice who received obese microbiota with those that received lean microbiota resulted in significantly greater transfer of taxa from lean to obese mice particularly within the bacteroidetes phylum.

furthermore after two weeks following fmt mice humanized with microbiota from mddpatientsshowedincreasesinanxiety-and depression-like behaviors relative to mice humanized with healthy microbiota .

in order to improve proto- cols for fmt three important and related challenges must be addressed a the measurement of the extent of engraft- ment must be clarified in order to rigorously determine which taxa are primarily facilitating patient recoveries b determination of a ''healthy'' or ''normal'' microbiota re- quires a better understanding to facilitate more rapid iden- tification and correction of dysbiotic states and c functional changes in gut biochemistry need to be better defined in order to have a mechanistic understanding of host-microbe interactions leading to disease cure.determining the extent of engraftmentsuccessful fmt unequivocally results in the transfer of mi- crobial taxa from a healthy donor stool sample to a recip- ient intestinal tract causing shifts in the community composition of the recipient microbiota to resemble more closely that of the donor.

fecal microbiota transplantation is now a well established alternative treat- ment for r-cdi and has shown significant promise to treat a variety of other diseases associated with or affected by the gut microbiota.

in addition due to signaling interactions between the gut microbiota and brain fmt has been suggested as a potential treatment for some psychological disorders including autism spectrum disorder.

however literature does point to its use nearly 1700 years ago by chinese physicians .fecal microbiota can be administered to patients via a variety of routes including enemas  nasogastric or na- soduodenal tubes  colonoscopy  or via oral capsule .

the mechanisms by which fmt abrogates infection are only beginning to be characterized  and likely involves restoration of gut ecology the structure and function of gut microbiota and signal exchange be- tween microbes and the host.treatment of r-cdi is the most widely used application of fmt in human patient cohorts  although several studies have suggested that fmt may also be efficacious in treating or mitigating symptoms associated with meta- bolic syndrome  autism spectrum disorder  or anti- biotic resistant bacteria .

moreover animal models have suggested the efficacy of fmt in miti- gating metabolic syndrome as well as other diseases thought to be associated with the gut microbiota .

results of animal studies must be interpreted carefully though due to differences in microbiota between hosts  as well as incomplete development of the immune and digestive systems in germ-free models .

taken together fmt has been proven to be an effective treatment for r-cdi and recent guidelines in both the united states and europe now recommend the use of fmt following a second or third recurrence of c. difficile infection .changes in the microbiotathe microbiota in patients suffering from r-cdi but not an initial c. difficile infection is significantly less diverse than those of healthy individuals likely due to repeated expo- sure to antibiotic treatment regimens .

multiple studies have shown that colonoscopic fmt results in normalization of the microbiota within 24 h following treatment  typically characterized by increases in the rela- tive abundance and diversity within the phylum bacteroi- detes .

