bifidobacteria can also promote gut epithelial integrity by strengthening tight junctions together these results suggest that gut microbiota can restore intestinal mucosal barrier function that is compromised in lupus- prone lpr mice.control of gut inflammation in lupuswith an enhanced gut mucosal barrier fewer bacteria are able to translocate across the intestinal epithelium leading to reduced activation and migration of cx3cr1 andor cd103 antigen-presenting cells apcs to the draining lymph nodes of the lower intestinal tract -.

the effect of lactobacilli on gut barrier function may also be attributed to the increase of muc2 a mucin protein se- creted by goblet cells that functions primarily to protect the intestinal epithelium .the imbalance between anti-inflammatory treg and inflammatory th17 cells is widely recognized as being causative in the onset of both murine lupus and human sle it is well established that environmental factors can promote plasticity between treg and th17 cells in- cluding the presence of inflammatory cytokines this cellular flexibility is due to effects of these inflam- matory cytokines on the expression and function of the lineage-defining transcription factors foxp3 and rorgt which promote treg and th17 cell fates respectively intriguingly changes in the composition of gut microbiota particularly those of clostridia and segmented filamentous bacteria sfb in mice and bacteroides fragilis in humans have been shown to alter the balance between treg and th17 cells we show here that increasing lactobacillales in the gut micro- biota can promote renal treg cells and suppress disease- causing th17 cells to attenuate kidney inflammation in lupus-prone mice.conclusionsenvironmental triggers initiate sle in susceptible indi- viduals.

microbiome 2017 573doi 10.1186s40168-017-0300-8control of lupus nephritis by changes of gut microbiotaqinghui mu1 husen zhang27 xiaofeng liao1 kaisen lin2 hualan liu28 michael r. edwards1 s. ansar ahmed1 ruoxi yuan13 liwu li3 thomas e. cecere1 david b. branson1 jay l. kirby1 poorna goswami1 caroline m. leeth4 kaitlin a. read5 kenneth j. oestreich5 miranda d. vieson1 christopher m. reilly16 and xin m. luo1backgroundperturbation of gut microbiota is known to promote autoimmune disorders that include inflammatory bowel disease type 1 diabetes rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis.

to accomplish this task a better under- standing of disease pathogenesis is required.current knowledge on the relationship between gut microbiota and sle is limited in human sle a recent cross-sectional study showed dysregulated fecal microbiota of sle individuals with a lower firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio that is consistent with gut dysbio- sis observed in other autoimmune conditions in mice it has been reported that the lupus-prone mrl mp-faslpr lpr mouse model exhibits similar disease manifestations under specific pathogen-free and germ- free conditions this suggests that complete removal of microbiota does not affect disease progression in these mice.

our research team has recently described the dynamics of fecalcolonic microbiota in lpr mice that suggests a critical role of gut microbiota on lupus pathogenesis however whether the change of gut microbiota is a driving force in sle or merely a result of disease status remains unclear.here we show that intestinal permeability is increased in female lpr mice preceding the onset of kidney disease i.e.

a leaky gut and that increasing gut colonization of lactobacillales restores the mucosal barrier function and reduced kidney pathology.

such change in gut microbiota promotes an anti-inflammatory environment in the gut suppressing expression of il-6 in the mesen- teric lymph node mln while increasing the levels of il-10 in circulation and periphery.

attenuate lnwhen comparing the bacterial composition in the gut microbiota of lupus-prone lpr mice vs. mrl control mice we found that female lpr mice had a significantly lower abundance of lactobacillales in the gut microbiota than mrl controls at 5 weeks of age and prior to the onset of lupus-like disease additional file figure s1a.

therefore we next sought to identify poten- tial messengers that transduced the disease-modulating signal from the gut to the kidney.a leaky gut in lupus-prone micewhile 5 lactobacillus strains were inoculated we found by using 16s ribosomal rna gene sequencing that unexpectedly two bacterial species accounted for 99 of the order lactobacillales regardless of treatment status.

this observation is consistent with published results on il-10-producing tr1 cells in lpr mice together these results suggest that gut micro- biota can promote an anti-inflammatory environment in the gut of lupus-prone mice leading to induction of il-10 that enters the circulation to provide systemic immunosuppression.control of renal inflammation in lupusil-10 can inhibit kidney disease in lpr mice through pre- venting ifng-mediated production of igg2a a major immune deposit in the kidney of these mice we found that lactobacillus treatment significantly reduced the level of igg2a in the blood fig.

together these results suggest that gut microbiota may attenuate ln by limiting renal deposition of igg2a and skewing the treg-th17 balance in the kidney to- wards treg.sex hormones and gut microbiota cooperatively regulate ln sle is a female-biased disease with women getting dis- ease nearly 91 over men.

in the gut microbiota exert anti- inflammatory effects by repairing the damaged gut barrier suppressing pro-inflammatory factors in the lymphatic circulation and improving the ratio of regula- tory versus pathogenic t cells thereby attenuating kid- ney inflammation.

however little is known on the role of gut microbiota in systemic lupus erythematosus sle.

this suggests another potential mechanism by which gut microbiota can modulate renal function.

are only present in female and castrated male lpr mice but not in intact males indicating a role for sex hormones in the regula- tory function of gut microbiota on lupus disease.

