it is recognized that micro- bial functions are critically important in maintaining intesti- nal homeostasis promoting absorption of nutrients and syn- thesis of essential aa and vitamins.mammalian gut microbiome compositionthe mammalian intestinal tract is colonized by a dense dynamic and highly complex community of microorganisms composed mainly of bacteria 1 with the number estimated to be 1014 2 3. the mammalian gut bacterial population is composed of at least 500-1000 species 4. however the dominant microbial community is stable with limited and finite diversity 5 at the phylum level 6. gut microbes are normally divided into six phylums firmicutes bacteroide- tes proteobacteria actinobacteria verrucomicrobia and fusobacteria 7. firmicutes and bacteoidetes are the domi- nant components and similar in host composing 90 of the ecosystem while others were as sub-dominant ones 8.gut microbiota could be classified into symbiotic micro- organisms and pathogenic microorganisms.

actually gut microbiota can be regarded as a continuous cultivation system where undigested parts of the protein work as a feeding medium to maintain its high density and diversity 58. the rise of microbial diversity is associated with increased ecosystem stability and the resistance to pathogen invasion 59. increasing mucosal crypt's bacteria can also induce toll-like receptors tlr found in epithelial cells 60. the innate immune response is induced and pat- tern recognition receptors prr are activated to secrete an- tibacterial peptides that in turn remove excessive pathogens61 and are considered beneficial to the host's health.the role of protein intake on gut microbial func- tion on gut barrierbowel is a site of heavy proteolytic activity and is largely mediated by the microbiota.

thus they are capable to control appetite and provide a potential link between microbial scfas formation as well as food intake 107.other effects also have been assigned to scfas 110. as organic acids scfas play a role in controlling the lumi- nal ph thus result in a lower ph in colon and consequently modulate the composition of colonic microbiota by prevent- ing the overgrowth of ph sensitive pathogenic bacteria like escherichia and clostridia 15. scfas also inhibit the growth of colitogenic pathogens involved in the development of the gut inflammation 111. by decreasing ph on the gut community 92 112 faecal butyrate has been shown to in- crease as well as total scfas concentrations in a more rapid gut transit 113. when diets are high in total protein de- creased populations of the butyrate-producing roseburia faecalibacterium prausnitzii plus eubacterium rectale group have been found 114 115. this alteration of microbiota population also correlates with reduced percentage of bu-tyrate among faecal scfas 47 116. it is worthy to men- tion that changes in the relative production rates of the major scfas by the colonic microbiota are likely to have impor- tant physiological consequences.

attention should be given to the dietary strategies with judicious selection of source and sup- plementation of dietary protein to benefit gut health.keywords dietary protein intestinal microbiota metabolites gut barrier amino acid balance digestibility.introductionintestinal microbiota play an important role in host growth and health.

moreover several aa released by gut bacteria can serve as precursors for the synthesis of scfas which also play a significant role in development of obesity.in this review we aim to compile the available evidence on the contribution of dietary protein to gut microbiota com- position and function.

conditional patho- gens are facultative anaerobes which are accounted for only a small percentage of the intestinal flora 10 9. they become harmful only upon an alteration of the balance in gut environment 10.the fate of protein digestion affects gut microbiota and the role of this ac- tion on gutdietary protein is an essential part of a balanced diet.

2. the role of protein intake on gut microbial function on gut barrier.

protein passing into the large intestine is more likely to be used by intestinal microbiota for bacterial nitrogen as- similation than to be fermented as energy source 33. the more surplus nitrogen in the large gut due to a lower digesti- bility of plant proteins can benefit bacteria of those groupsinvolved in protein fermentation by providing proteins to these bacteria thus promote their proliferation.however studies contradict about the prominence of in- fluence on gut microbiome composition between higher and lower digestibility of protein.

8ma et al.amino acid composition of different dietary protein modulates gut microbi- ota and its function on gutvariations in aa composition in different protein sources have been identified as one of important determinants of gut microbiota alteration.

aa imbalance could be caused by the addition of one or several kinds of non-limiting aa in the diet and feed intake is also signifi- cantly decreased 86.dietary protein affect gut microbiota by influenc- ing aa transporterdifferent protein sources in diet with their specific aa composition can transcriptionally regulate the expression of genes of aa transporter in gut.

therefore it might be speculated that casein improved the accumulation of lysine and arginine through up-regulation of the cat1 which is consistent with the finding that the lysine content in casein diet is significantly higher than that in zein 87 88. we speculate that casein plays an important role in modulating gut microbiota through alteration of lysine and arginine in gut.

moreover these aa also play an important role on microbial composition by providing building blocks for bac- terial protein as well as acting in the cross-talk among gut microbiota.aa composition modulates gut microbiota by changing intestinal morphologythe origin and the amount of proteins may influence in- testinal morphology which in turn may modulate the micro- biota composition.

considering that the epithelial cells of small intestinal villi absorb aa and other nutrients into gut and blood gut microbiota disturbance and malnutrition might be provoked when intestinal morphology is impaired.diarrhea in piglets can be reduced if the feeding diet con- sists of low protein level and balanced aa composition.

luminal amines and polyamines arise from endogenous secretion which play roles in the forma- tion of n-nitrosamines by condensation of a secondary amine with nitrite in an acidic environment or at neutral ph when catalyzed by bacterial enzymes 148. however monoamine and diamine oxidases presented in the gut mu- cosa could detoxify the amines produced by the gut microbi- ota.

thus more studies are required to elucidate rela- tionship between dietary protein and gut microbiome as well as the connection between microbial function and gut health.

