therefore the evolutionary resilience of microbial communities and their ability to constraint detrimental mutants should be considered to design robust biotechnological applications.evolutionary dynamics and cooperation in microbial populationsthe design and optimization of microorganisms for bio- technological purposes often considers cells in isolation.

although in this review we focus on microbial populations this is a very general issue in the sustain- ability of many organisms at different scales including humans justifying why the evolution and resilience of cooperation is considered one of the major open ques- tions in biology pennisi 2009.evolutionary conflicts between cooperative and cheat- ing cells have been studied in a variety of microbial sce- narios including the conversion of sucrose into glucose by the yeast saccharomyces cerevisiae gore et al.

these properties endow cooperative microbial populations with the possibility to resist cheat- ers invasions and the capability of performing more sophisticated tasks.despite its growing use to study the evolution of coop-eration evolutionary game theory has had so far a very limited impact in field or industrial biotechnological appli- cations in which the environmental conditions are gener- ally not well-defined and may affect the microbial communities bouchez et al.

similarly bioprocesses including bioreactor design could be engineered to account and exploit for eco-evo feedbacks and spatial organizations.understanding how syntrophy and cooperation endow the microbial populations with resistance and resilience against ecological and environmental disturbances like compositional shifts in the environment or antibiotic shocks could be used to engineer robust microbial com- munities with enhanced performance and predictable dynamics briones and raskin 2003 allison and mar- tiny 2008 soeurzen et al.

2016 a good example of shared goods are the cellulases secreted in the production of cellulosic ethanol zomorrodi and segre 2016.the presence of cooperative interactions has a signifi- cant impact on the evolutionary dynamics of microbial communities represented by the change in the frequen- cies of cells and species that implement different physio- logical strategies such as production of public goods vs. not.

2006. these intertwined selection mechanisms are expected to operate in any microbial population where there is possibility of different cells implementing different strategies with respect to their physiology as is the case of phenotypic heterogeneity.phenotypic heterogeneity arises even in monocultures and simple bioprocesses due to different reasons such as the use of non-homogenous culture conditions sto- chasticity in gene expression and differential epigenetic control enfors et al.

traits such as the usage of metabolic pathways or the expression of cer- tain enzymes can be then regarded as strategies and a successful strategy is then selected for.in a microbial community composed of species that compete using different strategies each of the individual cells possesses a fitness that depends on its strategy and on the strategy of the individuals with whom it interacts.

1975. in the con- text of microbial communities simpson's paradox is shown to emerge when the different sub-groups are suffi- ciently heterogeneous in their composition to guarantee that in the aggregate population the cooperative individu- als have an advantage over the cheating cells despite in each of the colonies - the disaggregated population -cheaters are favoured chuang et al.

this the- ory provides a framework to understand the dynamics of many bioprocesses involving complex microbial popula- tions natural and synthetic in which the fitness of anindividual cell is in fact affected by the environment and by the presence of other cells.

2016 segregating metabolic processes into different microbial cells accelerates the consumption of inhibitory substrates.

2016. these types of models also include the possibility of adding mutations that can introduce novel strategies not yet present in the species which can be used to simulate random evolution of mem- bers of the community eriksson and lindgren 2005.in cellular populations a cooperative trait is often characterized by the presence of a shared public good which is a finite resource produced by cooperative cells and that is freely available to all other cells.

some cells in the community excrete metabolites that can be taken up by other cells giving rise to a web of interactions.potential similarities with cellulose and other polymers biodegradation the example from yeast is worth explain- ing further.

in other words they become public goods cooper- ators - the cells that 'feed' themselves and their neigh- bours at the expense of expressing the enzyme - can be exploited by cheaters cells that do not express the enzyme and rely on cooperators to make food fig.

cells can be modelled as metabolic networks exchanging metabolites with other cells in the population.

cooperative cells can then share the produced public good with the similar trait excluding cheating cells fig.

