several genera were identified to be more abundant in grape than in must samples without abundance differences between the vintages figure 3. the fungal genera pithomyces phoma leptospherulina cryptococcus and alternaria were significantly more abundant in grape than in must samples welch t-test fdr  0.05 figure 3. vice- versa must samples showed a higher amount of the generazygosaccharomyces metschnikowia diplodia cytospora and candida compared to grape samples fdr  0.05 figure 3. in particular diplodia was found exclusively in must samples supplementary figure 5. considering the known problems in taxonomic assignments of species belonging to the candida and metschnikowia genera we further evaluated our classification by clustering the representative sequences found in our samples with the candida spp.

no significant differences were found between grapes at the beginning of the withering period t0 and t1 in the same vintage supplementary table 2. in addition while neither grapes collected at t0 nor grapes collected at t1 in 2013 showed significant differences compared to the must of the same year both grapes timepoints significantly differed from musts in 2014 permanova fdr  0.05 supplementary table 2. the same results were observed by using two other widely used beta diversity measures namely the bray-curtis and weighted unifrac beta dissimilarities supplementary table 2 and supplementary figure 2.the corvina mycobiota effects of the climate and constant generaby comparing fungal populations of grape and must samples during different vintages we could identify the fungal genera whose presence was modified by the withering process irrespective of the seasonal changes.

as observed from the comparison of different vintages other environmental conditions imposed by the withering can shape the grape mycobiota while the initial withering does not affect the grape mycobiota the harsh conditions imposed by a prolonged withering contribute to the shaping of the fungal populations.conserved microbial and chemical characteristics of amarone fermentationdespite the several differences observed among samples and associated to the vintage both grapes and fresh musts ofv.

among the free compounds 11 were significantly more abundant in must than in grape samples and 170 were showing an oppositetrend supplementary table 3. in terms of glycosylated aroma precursors none was more abundant in grape than in must samples while vice-versa 67 of them were significantly more abundant in musts supplementary table 4. a similar increase in glycosylated precursor compounds was previously observed to occur during grape maturation ryona and sacks 2013 thus suggesting that the processes begun in grape ripening proceed also during withering as previously proposed di carli et al.

as observed with otherparameters see previous section the grape samples collected at t0 and at t1 were substantially similar even when comparing the fungal genera relative abundances welch t-test fdr  0.05 supplementary figure 3. to note despite the wide similarity among grapes at t0 and t1 the effect of the vintage on fungal genera relative abundances was not identical supplementary figure 4. indeed the relative abundances of sporobolomyces periconia peniophora leptosphaerulina issatchenkia bathalimia diaporthe and botrytis differed in t0 grapes harvested in 2014 and in 2013 welch t-test fdr  0.05 supplementary figure 4 and did not differ in abundances in t1 samples of the two vintages.

2012 and nigrospora genera were significantly more abundant in all the samples collected in the 2014 vintage supplementary figure 4 and were estimated to be more abundant in grape samples compared to must figure 3. other examples of this situation are shown by the fungal genera phomopsis neofusicoccum diaporthe and diaportheunidentified which were significantly more abundant in must samples but whose presence was significantly higher in the 2014 vintage.

even more important several fungal genera among those constantly present in must samples of different vintages like zygosaccharomyces metschnikowia and candida are known to hold relevant roles either useful or detrimental in the fermentation for the production of volatile aroma compounds loureiro and malfeito-ferreira 2003 sipiczki 2006 oro et al.

the use of temperature and humidity controller systems in the warehouse used for withering the grapes could have prevented the growth of these molds.interestingly we found that diplodia found exclusively in must samples was positively correlated with compounds usually detected in traces in grapes and fresh fruits 1- pentanol and 26-dimethoxyphenol the latter also called syringol escudero et al.

2008. we assessed the contribution of grape withering in modifying the wine metabolome by comparing free and glycosylated precursor compounds in grapes and musts before and after the withering collected in the same vintage 2014. in addition we evaluated which part of the chemical profiles were conserved in different vintages by comparing the free compounds the most relevant for the wine flavor in musts collected in two different vintages 2014 and 2015 michlmayr et al.

to further explore the differences in microbial populations present in corvina grapes and musts in the two vintages we carried out 454-pyrosequencing meta-taxonomics analysis based on fungal its1 region sequencing aiming at the identification of the fungal genera present in the samples.

grapes sampled at t1 were shown by several parameters to be indistinguishable from samples collected at t0 in the same vintage suggesting that the withering affects fungal populations after prolonged periods.

2016 since we observed a decrease of the total amount of fungal and bacterial dna during the withering process we are confident that dna does not accumulate in these samples.

contrarily the total amount of bacteria decreased from the beginning to the end of the 2014 withering being it significantly lower at each sampled time-point wilcoxon-mann-whitney fdr  0.05 figure 1a and supplementary table 2. to note the fungal total amount significantly changed only between grapes sampled at the second withering time-point and fresh musts in 2014 vintage wilcoxon-mann-whitney fdr  0.05 figure 1a.

2016. we also found that octanoic acid caprylic acid had a negative correlation with fungal genera increasing in relative abundance during the withering process indicating a decrease of the compound during the withering.

2016. total bacterial and fungal dnas extracted from all the matrices collected in all the studied vintages were quantified by using universal primers specific for either the v1-v3 region of 16s rrna gene for bacteria baker et al.

