Fasting plasma glucose levels were highest in CHN T2D patients and lowest in CHN ND CTRL compared to corresponding SWE  MHD samples P  5.6 x 10-4. should have read For clinically relevant markers we found fasting plasma glucose levels were highest in CHN T2D patients and lowest in CHN ND CTRL compared to correspond- ing SWE  MHD samples P  5.6 x 10-4.

A revised Supplementary Table 1 'phenotypes' tab and corrected cohort summary statistics in Supplementary Tables 2 'metadata' tab and 12 'metadata differences' tab are provided in Supplementary Information to this Corrigendum.In addition in the Supplementary Information on page 6 the sen- tence For clinically relevant markers we found glycated haemoglobin A1c HbA1c reflecting long-term blood glucose levels to be lowest in MHD T2D and highest in SWE ND CTRL samples P  2 x 10-16.

CORRECTIONS  AmENDmENTSCorrigendumdoiCorrigendum disentangling type 2 diabetes and metformintreatment signatures in the human gut microbiotaKristoffer Forslund Falk Hildebrand Trine NielsenGwen Falony Emmanuelle Le Chatelier Shinichi Sunagawa Edi Prifti Sara Vieira-Silva Valborg GudmundsdottirHelle Krogh Pedersen manimozhiyan ArumugamKarsten Kristiansen Anita yvonne Voigt Henrik Vestergaard Rajna Hercog Paul Igor Costea Jens Roat Kultima Junhua Li Torben Jorgensen Florence Levenez Joel Dore metaHIT consortium H. Bjorn Nielsen Soren Brunak Jeroen Raes Torben Hansen Jun Wang S. Dusko Ehrlich Peer Bork  Oluf PedersenNature 528 262-266 2015 In the Supplementary Information to this Letter data from two previous studies were used in the meta-analysis.

Although this error does not affect the data used to generate the conclusions of the Letter it might affect follow-up studies using the glycated haemoglobin HbA1c and serum insulin phenotypes.

However the unit con- versions used to make the data comparable were inconsistent for two of the included phenotype measures.

On page 18 the sentence To convert mUl to pmoll for insulin levels a factor of 6.0 was used.

The original Letter has not been corrected online.Supplementary Information is available in the .1 1 6  N A T U R E  V O L 5 4 5  4 m A y 2 0 1 7 c 2017 Macmillan Publishers Limited part of Springer Nature.

should have read To convert mUl to pmoll for insulin levels a factor of 6.945 was used.We would like to thank the readers who brought these issues to our attention.

