moreover the gut microbiota significantly contributes in the normal development of fish and under germfree conditions the development of a normal intestinal morphology and immune system maturation and function is impaired.turnbaugh and colleaguesdemonstrated that the gut microbiota differed between obese and lean mice and concluded that the gut microbiota contributed to obesity in mice by increasing the energy harvest from the diet.

interestingly for the younger stages   21 dph r2 for weight was considerably lower than the one for age range 0.65-0.68 but for older stages 28 dph r2 for weight was equal to the one for age 0.85. thus whereas age had stronger correlation to the composition of microbiota than size at young stages both age and size had similar correlations to the composition of the microbiota of larvae at the older stages.discussionthe intestinal microbiota is important for host health and different factors may modify and structure the micro- biota including genetic background developmental stage and environmental factors -.

the age dependent change of the environments in the larval gut is due to the ontogeny of the digestive tract implicating huge changes during larval development.the dgge profiles of the larval microbiota in the period 10 to 24 dph show that the intestinal microbiota of the larvae during these days changed less than for younger and older stages and the microbiota was strongly dominated by a few species and with high abundance of arcobacter-related strains fig.

thiscontinuous interaction between the microbiota of different individuals kept in the same environment may result in a continuous inter-individual remodulation of the gut microbiota with a muting of the possible connection between microbiota and growth rate as a consequence.

openreceived 23 february 2017accepted 21 july 2017 published xx xx xxxxcorrelations of age and growth rate with microbiota composition in atlantic cod gadus morhua larvaely t. t. trinh12 ingrid bakke1  olav vadstein1little information is available on the link between host development growth rate and ontogeny and the composition of the microbiota in fish larvae.

we further found that the variation in the composition of the larval microbiota was more strongly correlated to age than to growth rate for larvae up to 28 dph whereas for the older larvae growth rate and age was equally correlated to the composition of the microbiota.

these results indicate that larval development may structure the microbiota through a change in selection pressure due to host-microbe and microbe-microbe interactions and that the composition of the microbiota may influence larval development through improved energy gain.the gastrointestinal tract gi of animals provides a habitat for a complex and diverse ecosystem of both aerobic and anaerobic microorganisms and has been investigated by several groups during the last decade.

also in humans the composition of the intestinal microbiota has been found to differ between obese and lean individuals and the microbiota influences the efficiency of caloric extraction from the food.

ordination by non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds based on bray-curtis similarities revealed that the microbiota of small and large individuals appeared different at 14 21 28 and 39 dph and it was a general tendency that the larval microbiota differed between the different age groups fig.

one-way permanova analysis revealed significant differences in the community composition of the microbiota between all the 10 age groups p 0.0075 and mean p 0.001 table .despite significant differences in the microbiota of cod larvae between all age groups at 14 17 21 24 and 28 dph two particular dgge band were strong in the dgge profiles of almost all individuals fig.

this is in concordance with the findings for developing zebrafish for which the gut microbiota became more divergent with increasing age.forberg et al.showed that size of atlantic cod larvae was strongly correlated to their intestinal microbiota.

furthermore fish have a closer interaction between microbiota of the fish and the microbiota in the environments than terrestrial animals as microbes and fish share the aqueous habitat.

in conclusion the correlation found between sizegrowth rate and microbiota is consistent with findings from mice where a positive contribution from the microbiota on energy gain from the diet is documented.

testing of this hypothesis could be done by microbiota transplantation studies similar to those done in mice.many factors including internal external and stochastic factors contribute to shape the intestinal microbiota of the larvae.

the observed differences in the community structure of the larval microbiota between small and large individuals could thus have been affected by underlying differences in genetic background among larvae with different parental origin.in conclusion there was a strong correlation between age and the composition of the larval microbiota.

