81065. doi 1 Biome Makers Inc. San Francisco CA United States 2 Department of Microbiology Biology Faculty Complutense University of Madrid Madrid Spain 3 Department of Genetics Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology University of the Basque Country Leioa Spain 4 IKERBASQUE - Basque Foundation for Science Bilbao Spain 5 Laboratorios Excell Iberica Logrono SpainKeywords NGS wine microbiome vine health soil microbiome metagenomic analysis bioinformatic tools and databases 16S rRNA gene sequencingA corrigendum onby Belda I. Zarraonaindia I. Perisin M. Palacios A. and Acedo A.

 1 2 3 4  Matthew Perisin 1  Antonio Palacios 1 5 and 1Edited and reviewed byGiovanna Suzzi University of Teramo ItalyCorrespondenceIgnacio Belda Alberto Acedo Specialty sectionThis article was submitted toFood Microbiology a section of the journal Frontiers in MicrobiologyReceived 23 May 2017Accepted 29 May 2017Published 12 June 2017Citation Belda I Zarraonaindia I Perisin M Palacios A and Acedo A 2017 Corrigendum From Vineyard Soil to Wine Fermentation Microbiome Approximations to Explain the terroir Concept.

The use distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted provided the original authors or licensor are credited and that the original publication in this journal is cited in accordance with accepted academic practice.

AP is affiliated with Excell Iberica Laboratories.The other author declares that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.Copyright c 2017 Belda Zarraonaindia Perisin Palacios and Acedo.

2017.

8821. doi In the original article there was an error in the Conflict of Interest statement.

The correct version appears below.

The authors apologize for this error and state that this does not change the scientific conclusions of the article in any way.Conflict of Interest Statement IB MP AP and AA are employees or active collaborators of Biome Makers Inc. which also funded this study.

