by colonoscopy the cure rates of infection were 90 for fmt vs. 26 for vancomycin in a 39 patient sample from july 2013 to june 2014 25. in a different study of rcdi treatment using a duodenal infusion of fmt the cure rates of infection were 94 for fmt 31 for vancomycin and 23 for vancomycin  bowel lavage in a study of 42 patients from april 2008 to january 2010 24. both studies were statistically significant p  .0001 and p  .001 respectively and showed that fmt could be a viable alternative to vancomycin treatment.however even with the viability of fmt as a treatment for rcdi its cost effectiveness is paramount to the discussion as rcdi is associated with long and costly hospital stays 3. three separate studies involving the cost effectiveness of fmt demonstrated its advantages over traditional vancomycin treatment 31-32 34.the first study represented in table 3 analyzed costs quality adjusted life years qaly and costqaly all of which favored fmt vs. traditional vancomycin treatment costqaly6896.69 vs. 16119.15 31. this demonstrated that not only is the procedure generally considered cheaper it is also associated with better outcomes and when combining both factors fmt demonstrated far superior cost effectiveness.

implementation of a more economical treatment strategy which delivers better health outcomes for affectedpatients would be optimal as it would simultaneously address the mounting burden of the disease and the staggering medical costs associated with cdis.currently there are a number of different treatment options available and their use varies by level of cdi severity 8. historically patients presenting with mild symptoms often did not require treatment as the normal gut flora could repopulate and successfully fight the infection on its own.

the life expectancy at birth in the united states is the lowest out of the top 18 countries in terms of healthcare spending 35. better and more cost effective management is of paramount concern for the healthcare industry as a whole in depth studies of both outcomes and cost effectiveness of new treatment options for establishing diagnoses like the case of fmt for recurrent cdi must be performed in order to more effectively manage patients and reduce the healthcare burden.in our analysis of different studies of the cost effectiveness of fecal microbiota transplantation for the treatment of recurrent cdi fmt has been associated with both better outcomes and as a more cost effective treatment.while examining outcomes for recurrent cdi treatment using vancomycin and fmt 24-25 two studies have shown that both fmt by colonoscopy and fmt by duodenal infusion have resulted in significantly higher cure rates for patients with recurrent infection.

fortunately however a number of promising investigational therapies for its treatment have emerged these include rifaximin  probiotic therapy monoclonal antibodies tigecycline nitazoxanide and fecal microbiota transplantation fmt the latter of which is sometimes referred to as fecal bacteriotherapy as it involves the transfer of feces from a healthy individual into the large intestine of a cdi affected patient in order to restore a normal gut microbiome 9-12.of these fmt in particular has garnered considerable attention in recent years due to numerous accounts of its remarkable efficacy in treating rcdi and its relatively low-cost profile 13-15. in fact it has been hailed as the most cost effective treatment option especially in the setting of rcdi 16-17. given these encouraging assertions and the growing need for morecost-effective solutions an investigation of the extent to which economically sound cost- effectiveness analyses are made comparing fmt vs. standard treatments supporting.

we applied the followingthe following criteria were used to further narrow down papers publishedpublished between january 2010 to january 2017studies with human participantspatientspapers that assessed the cost effectiveness of fmt for cdi compared to preferred options for cdi oral vancomycin metronidazole fidaxomicinwritten in englishsearch topic pertains to cost effectiveness and fecal microbiota transplantation or fecal microbiota transplant or fmt or fecal transplant.in order to properly assess the cost-effectiveness of the fmt treatment modality the studies included in our review investigated both the benefits and the costs of fmt in the treatment of rcdi.

furthermore to provide context for meaningful interpretation incorporated analyses compared the same factors for fmt as for competing for treatment strategies which consisted predominantly of regimens containing oral metronidazole andor oral vancomycin that represent the current standards of treatment for rcdi.

for additional context a review of fmt efficacy defined as resolution of disease was examined in contrast to standard treatment efficacy per comparative randomized controlled trials performed.resultsresolution of disease with fecal microbiota transplantation compared to standard treatmentsit is worth mentioning that randomized controlled trials comparing oral metronidazole to oral vancomycin reflect equal efficacy in treating patients with clostridium difficile associated diarrhea and colitis 18. for this reason both are regarded as acceptable first line options for the initial treatment of cdi although metronidazole is generally preferred for mild to moderate cases due to its lower cost and a lesser potential for inducing resistance while vancomycin is favored in cases of more severe illness 9 11 18-19. if cdi relapses the patient is typically treated with a repeated course of the initial antibiotic 9 19. if the patient relapses again heshe may be given tapering and pulsed oral vancomycin with or without probiotics such as saccharomyces boulardii.

while historically these antibiotics were associated with a nearly 90 cure rate more recent publications suggest that up to 50 of the patients with cdi are either refractory to treatment or go on to develop recurrence of disease 21-22. indeed recurrence of cdi has become an increasingly common and severe phenomenon following treatment with these agents 23. it is perhaps unsurprising that these agents have also demonstrated underwhelming efficacy in resolving these relapses according to recent randomized controlled trial results 24-25. fecal microbiota transplantation fmt on the other hand has shown excellent efficacy in treating rcdi with reported disease resolution rates ranging from 81-94 1 3. the mechanism by which fmts are able to achieve this is believed to be through repopulation of bacteroides and firmicutes species both of which are deficient among patients with rcdi.

rather it is the quality adjusted life years qaly a single figure that accounts for both the length and the quality of life gained with a particular intervention which is favored for conveying treatment effectiveness in analyses of this variation 26. the qaly is then interpreted in the context of the costs associated with delivering the treatment in order to arrive at a common denominator of costqaly.

studies comparing different treatment options which are not necessarily mutually exclusive often express results in costqaly 27-29.in accordance with this convention a comparison of the costs qaly and costqaly ratios for fmts vs currently preferred treatment strategies was performed using the results from each of the studies incorporated in our review.

accordingly their conclusions endorse fmt as the dominant treatment strategy for the treatment of cdi 32.incremental cost effectiveness ratio icer is another index of cost-effectiveness that is commonly calculated in economic evaluations of health care decisions.

this study did demonstrate some limitations however the author's own words a lack of existing studies examining fmt from which to gather inputs shows that more studies must be conducted in order to gather more accurate data regarding the true cost benefit of fmt 31.another study represented in table 4 also analyzing costs qaly and costsqaly demonstrated a similar result showing that fmt was more cost effective than the current practice for all age groups 18 years or older 32. for all age groups costqaly of fmt vs. current practice metronidazole and vancomycin was 21430.40 vs. 27391.97. this study concluded that fmt is associated with lower costs and the authors endorsed fmt as the dominant treatment strategy for treating recurrent cdi.lastly we examined a study that used an incremental cost effectiveness ratio icer to evaluate the cost effectiveness of multiple different treatment modalities for rcdi.

a new randomized controlled trial sponsored by the north shore university healthsystem analyzing outcomes for fmt versus antimicrobial treatment for rcdi was verified on march 2016 and is currently undergoing recruitment 36. this study and other randomized controlled trials rcts in the future could help reveal some of the details regarding specific outcomes for fmt which could then be incorporated into older and newer studies examining the cost-benefit ratio of fmt vs. standard treatment.

this underscores the need for more multisite adequately powered high-quality studies comparing the costs and benefits of viable treatment modalities for recurrent c. difficile 39.conclusionsat present fmt is not a first line option in the treatment of adults with cdi.

with this review given the apparent readiness of patients to accept this as a treatment there is evidently favorable cost effectiveness profile against a backdrop of rising healthcare costs and the increasing incidence and morbidity associated with this disease it would be rational to expect a more widespread adoption of fmt in the treatment of rcdi than that which is currently observed.

