the xylano- cellulolytic positive colonies were also spotted on 1 carboxy methyl cellulose and 0.25 xylan containing nutrient agar plates.in the second step the colonies which gave zone of substrate hydrolysis in the above step were further spotted onto nutrient agar plates with 0.5 peptone 0.3 beef extract 1.5 agar and 1 waste paper ph 8.5. the plates were incubated at 37 degc for 48 h. after that replica plates were made and incubated at the same conditions as men- tioned above and then treated with congo red for zone analysis.

one unit of xyla- nase and cellulase activity is defined as the amount of enzyme that catalyzes the release of 1 lmol of xylose and glucose respectively per minute under the specified assay conditions.table 1 qualitative and quantitative analysis of xylanase and cellulase enzymes from termite gutisolates qualitative analysisquantitative analysisdiameter mm of zone of substrate hydrolysis on agricultural wastes and commercial substratesenzyme activity iumlaresults presented are the mean of three independent experiments with standard deviation valuesa under unoptimized conditionsresults and discussionevidences are available in the literature for the presence of micro-organisms in the termite gut and termitarium that help in lignocellulose degradation brune  manjula et al.

upon further quantitative analysis of cellulose and xylan degrading enzymes all 30 bacterial isolates isolated from termite gut displayed cellulase cmcase and xylanase activity in the range of 0.5-6.8 and 51-360 iuml respectively and all 30 bacterial isolates isolated from termitarium displayed cellulase cmcase and xylanase activity in the range of 0.45-6.02 and 55-380 iuml respectively.

the qualitative screening of xylanase and cellulase producing micro-organisms was done on nutrient agar plates containing wheat bran and waste paper respectively.

1 zone of substrate hydrolysis shown on a waste paper plus wheat bran b xylan plus carboxy methyl cellulose c waste paper d carboxy methyl cellulose e wheat bran f xylanbirchwood xylan 1 and carboxy methyl cellulose 1 were used for the estimation of xylanase and cellulase activity respectively.

these enriched inocula were used for further qualitative screening of xylano-cellulolytic micro-organisms.qualitative screening of xylano-cellulolytic microbesin the first step 50 ll of cell suspension obtained above from termite gut and termitarium was taken and spreadonto nutrient agar plates containing 0.5 peptone 0.3 beef extract 1.5 agar 1 wheat bran and 1 waste paper ph 8.5 separately for isolation of xylano-cellu- lolytic microbes.

the cellulolytic positive colonies were also spotted on 1 carboxy methyl cellulose containing nutrient agar plates.in the final step the nutrient agar plates containing 0.5 peptone 0.3 beef extract 1.5 agar and 1 wheat bran ph 8.5 were spotted with colonies which gave positive results in the second screening step.

in view ofvarious industrial applications of cellulase and xylanase enzymes in combination the present study was aimed at screening and isolation of potential xylano-cellulolytic enzymes producing microbes from termite gut and termi- tarium using agro-wastes.materials and methodssample collection and other chemicalssoil samples from termitarium and wood feeding higher termites were collected from kurukshetra university campus kurukshetra haryana india.

the symbiotic microbes present in the termite gut are known to produce cellulase and xylanase tarayre et al.

xylanase and cellulase positive colonies were analysed by observing the zone of substrate wheat bran and waste paper hydrolysis around the colo- nies.

cost-effective agro-wastes were used for screening and enrichment purposes as describedtable 2 qualitative and quantitative analysis of xylanase and cellulase enzymes from termitariumisolates qualitative analysisquantitative analysisdiameter mm of zone of substrate hydrolysis on agricultural wastes and commercial substratesenzyme activity iumlaresults presented are the mean of three independent experiments with standard deviation valuesa under unoptimized conditionsby singh et al.

the colonies which formed clear zone around them after congo red staining indicated that these colonies are producing cellulase as waste paper contains cellulose.

iso- lates which showed zone of substrate hydrolysis on waste paper-nutrient agar plates also showed comparable zones on carboxy methyl cellulose-nutrient agar plates fig.

the plates were incubated at 37 degc for 48 h. the morphologically different and well grown colonies were spotted again on to another nutrient agar plate containing wheat bran and waste paper.

this is the first report mentioning the isolation of xylano-cellulolytic microbes from termite gut and ter- mitarium using very simple cost-effective methodology.keywords termite  termitarium  xylanase  cellulase wheat bran  waste paperrishi pal mandhan and ritu mahajan contributed equally to this work.

