discriminant metabolites were highlighted by the means of an s-plot and a mann-whitney test was carried out to find significant differences between the classes.fourteen metabolites were detected to be responsible for the separation of the cd patients from the healthy control group fig.

of these eight were significantly increased in cd patients alanine beta-alanine phe- nylacetic acid 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid glyceric acid phenylethylamine putrescine and cadaverine and six metabolites significantly decreased in cd patients nicotinic acid pantothenic acid 3-methyladipic acid 5b-coprostanol 3-hydroxybutyric acid and hydrocinnamic acid.regarding the comparison between uc patients and healthy controls sixteen metabolites were able todiscriminate between the two groups fig.

six metabolites significantly 4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid glucose cadaverine and 5-aminovaleric acid while 10 metabolites significantly decreased in uc patients nicotinic acid pantothenic acid 3-methyladipic acid pyroglutamic acid 5b-coprostanol 3-hydroxybutyric acid hydrocinnamic acid lin- oleic acid sebacic acid and tricarballylic acid.1h-nmr analysis.

discriminant metabolites obtained with the mva underwent to a mann-whitney test to determine which metabolites were statistically significantly variated.

discriminant metabolites obtained with the mva underwent to a mann-whitney test to determine which metabolites were statistically significantly variated.

spearman correlation between statistically different metabolites and bacterial genera was calculated both for cd a and uc b. spearman correlation between statistically different metabolites and bacterial species was calculated both for cd c and uc d. correlations with an r coefficient 0.5 are shown.inflammation.

cytosolic phospholipase a2 is activated by low concentration of ca2 and during this activation the lipase is transferred from the cytosol to the cell membrane to initialise the arachidonic acid cascade producing many inflammatory mediators.in addition to the previously described metabolites fecal extracts derived from uc patients showed an increase in tyramine tmao glycine glucose 5-aminovaleric acid dg 160182 and nape 181161180 and a decrease in glutamic acid pyroglutamic acid linoleic acid sebacic acid and trycarballylic acid pc 22.2141 and cer 181220. furthermore in uc patients there was a decrease in 3-methyladipic acid 2-hydroxy- 3-methylvaleric acid citric acid methylamine and pc 16031. the reduced levels of all these metabolites strongly correlated with the lower abundance of the flavobacterium genus belonging to the bacteroidetes phy- lum.

here the composition of the microbiota and the metabolites in stool of 183 subjects 82 uc 50 cd and 51 healthy controls were determined.

the metabolites content and the microbiological profiles were significantly different between ibd and healthy subjects.

various metabolites including biogenic amines amino acids lipids were significantly increased in ibd while others such as twob group vitamins were decreased in ibd compared to healthy subjects.

the combined evaluation of metabolites and fecal microbiome can be useful to discriminate between healthy subjects and patients with ibd.inflammatory bowel disease ibd represents a group of chronic disorders that affect one or more parts of the intestine.

twin-pair studies have shown differences in fecal metabolites and microbiome between patients with crohn disease and their healthy siblings.

finally we investigated the correlation between measured metabolites and identified bacteria to better define the gut-microbiome metab- olome during the development of ibd.resultsmicrobiota analysis.

spectral resonances were assigned to individual metabolites on the basis of data published in the literatureand using the 500 mhz library from chenomx nmr suite 7.1 chenomx inc. edmonton alberta canada.

in order to understand the actual trend of the metabolites their relative concentrations were determined using the chenomx nmr suite 7.1. the cd patients had a lower content of 2-hydroxy-3-methylvaleric acid citric acid and methylamine but a higher content of cadaverinefigure 2. microbiome taxonomic composition at genus level in cd uc and controls subjects.

