lactobacillus taxa were consistently found to be enriched in the lower esophagus as compared to the upper esophagus in each of the control fed and hfd fed rats relative abundance cu 3.58 cl 25.08 hfu 2.15 hfl 12.86 2g.nmds plots identified some separation across diet  supplementary file 1 and significant differences permanova were found in the lower esophageal microbiota between control and hfd fed rats at the order family genus and otu levels 2f.

an insulin tolerance test conducted at 15 weeks of diet showed an increased auc p  0.061 in hfd fed rats as compared to control fed rats 1c which was suggestive of reduced insulin sensitivity in the hfd fed rats.one control fed rat that gained a comparable amount of weight to hfd fed rats was considered an outlier and excluded from the above analyses supplementary file 1. while this outlier control rat had a slightly higher per- centage fat relative to body weight as compared to the average of other control rats it was lower than the average of hfd rats  supplementary file 1. further glucose and insulin measurements were comparable to other control rats supplementary file 1.the esophageal microbiota differs by location and diet.

on the other hand ten pathways were significantly different in the lower esophagus of hfd fed rats as compared to the lowerfigure 2. analysis of the upper and lower esophageal microbiota of rats fed either control n  5 or high fat diet n 7. a number of otus identified across different esophageal segments and diets.

however the effect of hfd on the esophageal microbiota does not appear to be as pronounced as has been previously observed for the intestinal microbiota.one bacterial taxon that was found to be significantly enriched following hfd in both the upper and lower esophagus was clostridium sensu stricto.

the consequences on the host of an esophageal microbiota rich in rothia and fusobacterium species should be examined in the future in the context of increased inflammation and histological changes observed in the eac cascade.the predicted esophageal bacterial metagenome total genomic information of the rats showed that carot- enoid biosynthesis counts were significantly decreased in the lower esophagus of hfd fed rats when compared to control rats.

further while not identified using lefse there appeared to be a decrease in abundance of lactobacillus in the lower esophagus of hfd-fed rats cl 25.08 hfl 12.86.of interest the upper and lower esophageal microbiota of the outlier control rat were comparable to other control rats supplementary file 1.composition of the esophageal microbiota correlates with metabolic parameters.

these results were consistent with the identification of significant differences in microbial composition permanova between the upper and lower esophagus only in control rats up to taxonomic level family and between control and hfd rats only in the lower esophagus up to taxonomic level order.expression of host genes correlate with metabolic parameters and microbial profiles.

hfd fed rats gained more weight than controls and at the end of the experiment 16 weeks of diet hfd fed rats were significantly heavier than control fed rats delta body weight control 487.7 - 17.8 g hfd 593.6 - 14.8 g p  0.0014 a. consistently total fat and percentage fat relative to body weight were both significantly higher in hfd fed rats as compared to control fed rats .

email relationship between unhealthy diets higher bmis and the esophageal microbiota is limited to the identification using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of a decrease in lactobacillus abundance in the distal oesophagus of sprague-dawley rats fed a hfd.given the lack of information surrounding the underlying mechanisms for the link between obesity and eso- phageal disease in this study we examined metabolic parameters esophageal microbiota and host esophageal expression of a range of markers involved in inflammation and fatty acid metabolism of two groups of rats fed control or a hfd for 16 weeks and determined the associations between these factors.resultsrats fed a high fat diet gained more fat and developed insulin resistance.

hfd black triangle control gray inverted triangle.e comparison of the esophageal microbiota between upper and lower segments at all taxonomic levels using permanova in each of the control and hfd rat groups.

thus it would be of interest to determine if scfa levels are higher in the esophagus of hfd fed rats and how this may impact the esophageal microenvironment.consistent correlations were observed across metabolic parameters the composition of the esophageal micro- biota and host gene expression.

while a number of genes showed upreg- ulation in the lower esophagus compared to the upper esophagus ppara and in hfd fed rats compared to con- trol rats ppara ptgs2 and crat 4a no comparisons reached significance due to the high variability present across the subgroups.

we observed a significant difference between the upper and lower esophageal microbiota in control fed rats emphasized by enrichment of lactobacillus species in the lower esophagus.

a differ- entiating factor between the lower and upper esophagus regardless of diet type was the increased abundance of lactobacillus in the lower esophagus.

fasting blood glucose concentrations were significantly differ- ent between the two groups at 14 weeks of diet fasting glucose mm control 5.22 - 0.21 hfd 5.87 - 0.10 p  0.030. the glucose tolerance test conducted immediately after showed that the hfd fed rats had a higher area under the curve auc as compared to the chow fed rats glucose tolerance test aucglucose chow 2052 - 153 high fat 2514 - 83 mm.min p  0.066 indicating reduced glucose tolerance in hfd fed rats compared to con- trols.

