To examine if acidification of the medium by acidic byprod- ucts of glucose metabolism during growth of E. coli cul- tures in LBG was primarily responsible for the killing of V. cholerae strains in the co-cultures the V. cholerae strains were next co-cultured with the E. coli MG1655 glucose transport mutants Additional file  Table S1.

These results suggest that E. coli strains by virtue of their ability to metabolize glucose to acidic byproducts and cause acidification of the growth medium in LBG affect survival of V. cholerae strains irrespective of the acetoin producing capability of the latter when the E. coli and V. cholerae strains are grown together.

The E.coli strains produce largely acidic metabolites upon glu- cose fermentation - it is therefore conceivable that the survival of V. cholerae may be affected in the co-cul- ture with E. coli in LBG.As reported earlier V. cholerae classical biotype strain O395 exhibited severe growth defect in Luria broth medium supplemented with 1 glucose LBG since this biotype produces acidic byproducts of glucose metabo- lism.

However when the strains were grown in co-cultures with E. coli 40 or E. coli Nissle a drastic decline in cell count of both the V. cholerae strains was observed concomitant with acidification of the growth media presumably due to acidic glucose fer- mentation metabolites produced by E. coli Fig.

In this study we demonstrate that presence of heterologous organisms with ability to produce acidic byproducts of glucose metabolism might modulate the survival of V. cholerae under glucose rich conditions.All recorded cholera pandemics have been caused by strains of the O1 serogroup of V. cholerae that can beCorrespondence rukhsanaiicb.res.in saumyarocketmail.com Chirantana Sengupta and Manjula Ekka contributed equally to this work1 CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology Sector 39A Chandigarh 160036 India2 CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology 4 Raja SC Mullick RoadKolkata 700032 Indiaclassified into two major biotypes classical and El Tor.

It has been suggested that the ability to metabolize sugars without production of growth inhibitory acidic products might account for the evolutionary fitness of the V. cholerae El Tor biotype by virtue of which it displaced the classical biotype as a cause of epidemic cholera .Here we postulate that cross feeding of byproducts of glucose metabolism by heterologous bacteria might mod- ulate the survival of V. cholerae in glucose rich growthc The Authors 2017.

As proof of concept V. cholerae classical and El Tor biotype strains were co-cultured in the presence of glucose with E.coli strains that produce acidic byprod- ucts of glucose metabolism and the effect of co-culturing on V. cholerae survival was determined.

Suspension of V. cholerae strain N16961 in conditioned medium prepared from 12 h cultures of E. coli resulted in loss of cell count indicating that cell-cell contact was not necessary for the decline in cell count of V. cholerae in the presence of theE.

Survival was assayed by spotting dilutions 10-3-10-6on LB agar plates containing streptomycin to select V. cholerae N16961 SmR.Results and discussionTo ascertain how the survival of V. cholerae is influenced by heterologous bacteria in glucose enriched mediumV.

On the other hand E. coli glucose transport mutants that pro- duce lower amounts of acidic metabolites had little effect on the survival of V. cholerae in co-cultures.MethodsStrainsAll bacterial strains used for this study have been described in Additional file  Table S1.

