the involvement of gut microbiota in the outcome of anti cancer therapy and the role of immune response create new questions from a preclinical and clinical standpoint in the cancer field 40 .microbiome and cancergut microbiota complexity and behaviour deserve the definition of tissue organ as introduced and thoroughly discussed by burcelin and collaborators 41 a major immunological organ which means metabolic organ that influences different pathways of whole metabolism.

moreover a recent study established that microbiota composition enriched in bacteroides phlilym can prevent the onset of immune colitis in patients treated with anti-ctla-4 ipilimumab 66. this data support the idea that microbiota modifying immune response could influence the response of both chemotherapy and immunotherapy table 1.67-72 furthermore the microbiota profiles already studied in ibd and liver diseases could be useful to stratify cancer patients treated with icis 73-80.microbiome and pd1-pd-l1 axisit's known that pd1-pdl1 axis plays a key role in the regulation of immune system and that immunotherapy is more efficient in t cell inflamed tumors rather than in t cell deficient tumors.

reviewcross-talk between microbiota and immune fitness to steer andcontrol response to anti pd-1pdl-1 treatmentandrea botticelli2 ilaria zizzari1 federica mazzuca2 paolo antonio ascierto4 lorenza putignani3 luca marchetti5 chiara napoletano1 marianna nuti1 and paolo marchetti2department of experimental medicine sapienza university of rome rome italydepartment of clinical and molecular medicine sant'andrea hospital sapienza university of rome rome italyunits of parasitology and human microbiome bambino gesu children's hospital and research institute rome italymelanoma cancer immunotherapy and innovative therapy istituto nazionale tumori fondazione g pascale napoli italydepartment of clinical oncology policlinico umberto i university of rome sapienza rome italycorrespondence to marianna nuti email  these authors have contributed equally to this workkeywords microbiome immunotherapy pd-1 pdl-1 ctla-4received july 18 2016accepted october 13 2016published october 28 2016abstractimmune checkpoint inhibitors icis are improving the survival of cancer patients however only the 20-30 of treated patients present clinical benefits.

in particular the presence of ruminococcus  gram negative and alistipes  gram- positive is involved in tnf production  while an enriched lactobacillus microbiota correlates with the fail of response.thus microbiota may have a crucial role in influencing cancer treatment efficacy and considering the close interaction with immune system it's reasonable to supposed its influence in response to icis or other immunotherapies.in fact recently vetizou et al.

it was also demonstrated that recolonization with healthy mouse commensal microbiota can correct the immune deficiency.fargarsan showed that pd-1-- mice have a significant alteration in microbiota composition reduction of anaerobic bacteria of bifidobacterium and bacteroidaceae increase in enterobacteriaceae and at the general level increase in members of thefigure 1 a new proprosed approach for the management of immunotherapy cancer treatment.erysipelotrichaceae prevotellaceae alcaligenaceae and tm7 genera incertae sedis and it's supposed to be caused by a decreased capacity of iga of binding bacteria83.

the loss of the protective function of intestinal barriers that interacts with the environment measured as increased intestinal permeability and the changes occurring in the microbiota composition have been proposed as a mechanism potentially explaining the pathogenesis of immune related toxicity.in this review we discuss the new perspectives on the involvement of pd-1 and pdl-1 in the cross talk between gut microbiota and immune fitness and how gut microbiota impacts on the efficacy of anti-pd-1 and anti-pdl-1 treatments in cancer.introductionin the last years the modulation of immune checkpoint network is becoming an important therapeutic strategy for anti-cancer treatments.

2013 500 541-6. doi 10.1038nature12506.kostic ad gevers d pedamallu cs michaud m duke f earl am ojesina ai jung j bass aj tabernero j baselga j liu c shivdasani ra et al.

the idea was that if the negative regulation of t cells could be blocked t cell responses would be expanded and sustained long enough to eliminate cancer 34. the other important insight was translating the target from the cancer cell and its antigenicgenomic repertoire to the immune system unregarding the type of tumor and the antigens expressed.

43-48the close association between cancer susceptibility 49-61 responsiveness to cancer therapy and microbiome has just been investigated.

infact it was shown that the production of il-17 in response to change of microbiota composition is associated to rapid progression of colo- rectal cancer.

the role of the gastrointestinal microbiota incolorectal cancer.

2009 15 1524-7. doi 10.2174138161209788168191.zhu q gao r wu w qin h. the role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of colorectal cancer.

2013 97 1044-52. doi 10.3945ajcn.112.046607.wang t cai g qiu y fei n zhang m pang x jia w cai s zhao l. structural segregation of gut microbiota between colorectal cancer patients and healthy volunteers.

microbes microbiota and colon cancer.

2012 336 485-9. doi 10.1126 science.1217718.rescigno m. a fit microbiota to potentiate cancer immunotherapy.

