The funders had no role in study design data collection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.Competing interests The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.indigestible dietary polysaccharides and in metabolizing their liberated sugars e.g.

The cell suspension was lysed by sonication and then centrifuged for 45 minutes at 14500 g. The supernatant was filtrated using Rotilabo-syringe filters with 0.45 mm cut-off ROTH Karlsruhe Germany to remove all remaining cell debris and was then applied for affinity chromatography on Ni-NTA resin5 mL pre-packed His-trap FF GE Healthcare fitted in an A KTA FPLC GE Healthcare that had been equilibrated with the lysis buffer.

The genome of this anaerobe encodes more than 100 proteolytic enzymes the majority of which have not been characterized.

The biochemical results for B. thetaiotaomicron DPP III from our research showed both some similarities to as well as certain differences from previously characterised yeast and human DPP III.

The 3D-structure of B. thetaiotao- micron DPP III was determined by X-ray crystallography and revealed a two-domain protein.

The ligand-free structure refined to 2.4 A was in the open conformation while in the pres- ence of the hydroxamate inhibitor Tyr-Phe-NHOH the closed form refined to 3.3 A was observed.

The completed genome sequence of B. thetaiotaomicron revealed that a large fraction of the 4779 encoded proteins participate in harvesting otherwise the European Community's Seventh Framework Programme under New Molecular Solutions in Research and Development for Innovative Drugs InnoMol - FP7- REGPOT-2012-2013-1 grant agreement number 316289  Austrian Science Funds FWF  project W901 to KG DK Molecular Enzymology Austrian Exchange Service OeAD through grants HR 092012 to PM and HR 062016 to KGwithin the Scientific  Technological Cooperation WTZ between Austria and Croatia  .

The genome sequence also provided insight into the proteolytic capacity of B. thetaiotaomicron according to the MEROPS database   release 11.0  this bacterium possesses 129 peptidases.

The majority of these peptidases have not been functionally or biochemically characterized.Recently we have cloned and biochemically characterized dipeptidyl peptidase III DPPIII from B. thetaiotaomicron .

The crystal structures of ligand-free human and yeast enzymes revealed an elongated protein molecule with two domains separated by a wide cleft as well as a very similar overall fold.

