One study found the constituent colonizers of the cutaneous microbiome in patients with diabetes to differ significantly from those without  but the study did not examine the cutaneous niche of the feet.The current study aimed at determining the differencesbetween the cutaneous microbial flora of patients with T2DM and those without and thus evaluate for cutaneous microbiome dysbiosis in diabetes.

Culture characterization of the skin microbiome in Type 2 diabetes mellitus A focus on the role of innate immunityAkshay Thimmappaiah Jagadeesh  Peralam Yegneswaran Prakash N. Karthik Rao V. Ramya a Kasturba Medical College - Manipal Manipal University Karnataka 576104 Indiab Medical Mycology Division Department of Microbiology Kasturba Medical College - Manipal Manipal University Karnataka 576104 Indiac Department of Medicine Kasturba Medical College - Manipal Manipal University Karnataka 576104 Indiad Department of Microbiology Kasturba Medical College - Manipal Manipal University Karnataka 576104 IndiaA R T I C L E I N F O Article historyReceived 22 June 2017 Received in revised form 12 August 2017Accepted 18 September 2017Available online 22 September 2017KeywordsType 2 diabetes Innate immunity Skin flora Microbiome DysbiosisA B S T R A C T Aims The current study aimed at determining the differences between the cutaneous microbial flora of patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus T2DM and those without and thus evaluate for cutaneous microbiome dysbiosis in diabetes.Methods We employed a case-control study design with 41 participants in each group.

These results are consistent with a recent study culture-based study done on the axillary skin niche .

A recent study has found patients with T2DM to have a marked reduction in cutaneous LCs leading to reduced skin infiltration of immune cells  another factor that could contribute to dysbiosis in these patients.

Cases and controls were gender matched.Based on the proportions of isolation of Staphylococcus epi- dermidis the most frequently isolated cutaneous microbe from the skin of patients with T2DM and those without  the sample size was calculated for a 95 Confidence Interval CI and 80 power using the formula for the comparison of proportions.Data collection and skin samplingA written informed consent was obtained from each of the patients.

Higher sweat glucose concentrations and an altered cutaneous thermoregulatory function arising as sequelae of neuropathy are thought to promote higher micro- bial diversity in T2DM .Second S. epidermidis which represented the largest pro- portion 50 of all Staphylococcus species isolated had a sig- nificantly higher prevalence among patients with T2DM 77.5 as opposed to 53.7 among controls p  0.02.

Although the cutaneous microbiome includes bacteria fungi and numerous viruses in this study we limit ourselves to the discussion of culturable aerobic bacteria.

The total growth on the agar plate representative of the surface microbial load of the skin was recorded conventionally as heavy moderateMaterials and methodsStudy populationThis was a single-centred case-control observational study conducted at Kasturba Hospital Manipal University Manipal.

However no predictor variable was significantly associated with heavy colonization.DiscussionThe current study was aimed at evaluating the cutaneous microbiome for dysbiosis in patients with T2DM.

Among other factors thought to affect skin flora  in our study only age differed significantly between subject groups.

