Previous reports on endophytic bacteria from Phaseolus vulgaris  Salvia miltiorrhiza  Zea mays  Sorghum bicolor  and Glycine max  are sup- portive to the obtained result.In the present study 12 different media were used for the isolation of endophytic bacteria which influenced the number and diversity of obtained cultivable bacteria.

Thus the plant growth-promoting property of endophytic microorganisms will be successful if the isolate can keep a balance on regula- tion of various PGP traits.In the current study plant growth analysis revealed the ability of endophytic bacteria to enhance growth of V. unguiculata.

Current Microbiology 2018 75505-511 httpsdoi.org10.1007s00284-017-1410-zCulturable Endophytic Bacteria of Ginger Rhizome and their Remarkable Multi-trait Plant Growth-Promoting FeaturesSabu Rohini1  R. Aswani1  M. Kannan2  V. P. Sylas2  E. K. Radhakrishnan1Received 26 May 2017  Accepted 30 November 2017  Published online 7 December 2017c Springer ScienceBusiness Media LLC part of Springer Nature 2017AbstractFunctional contribution of endophytic bacteria towards plant growth is highly impressive due to their species diversity and array of probiotic mechanisms.

This makes studies on plant growth- promoting endophytic bacteria highly attractive to make use of them as agents for plant growth enhancement.In the current study Zingiber officinale ginger with tra- ditional medicinal applications was selected as the source for isolation of endophytes.

Micro-Macro Publishing AthensKhan AL Halo BA Elyassi A Ali S Al-Hosni K Hussain J Al-Harrasi A Lee I-J 2016 Indole acetic acid and ACC deami- nase from endophytic bacteria improves the growth of Sola- num lycopersicum.

Taghavi S Garafola C Monchy S Newman L Hoffman A Wey- ens N Barac T Vangronsveld J van der Lelie D 2008 Genome survey and characterization of endophytic bacteria exhibiting a beneficial effect on growth and development of poplar trees.

The results are indicative of their modulatory effect on soil nutrients.DiscussionIn the present study a maximum of 96 culturable endophytic bacteria could be isolated from the rhizomes of Z. offici- nale.

Jasim B Joseph AA John CJ Mathew J Radhakrishnan EK 2014 Isolation and characterization of plant growth promoting endophytic bacteria from the rhizome of Zingiber officinale.

In the study 96 endophytic bacteria isolated from rhizome of ginger Zingiber officinale were screened for phosphate solubilisation 1-amino cyclopropane-1-carboxylate ACC deaminase activity nitrogen fixa- tion ammonia and IAA production.

Diverse functions inplants including the regulation of turgor pressure function of stomata improvement of root development and general health are increasingly being identified to be regulated by endophytic bacteria .

