when examined at level 3 genes related to two component system bacterial chemotaxis staphylococcus aureus infection bacterial motility proteins and bacterial secretion system bacterial invasion of epithelial cells andfigure 5. predicted function of breast milk microbiota between healthy-controls sam and am samples.

metabolic pathways involved in bacterial colonization and pro- liferation such as bacterial secretion system two component system s. aureus infection bacterial chemotaxis and bacterial motility protein pathogenic e. coli infection were overrepresented in am and sam respectively.

recently by utilizing next generation sequencing ngs technology healthy human milk microbiome has been analyzed for bacterial diversity and stability in different geographical regions-.mastitis is an inflammation of mammary gland during which dysbiosis of human milk microbiome exhib- its outgrow of opportunistic pathogenic bacteria and reduction of healthy commensal bacteria .

moreover nowadays there is great concern to include blank-control in metagenomic study but low microbial biomass and difficulty in amplifying bacterial sequences by pcr has assured us that our results reflects actual human milk microbial composition.when examined at species level we observed similar pattern of dysbiosis enrichment of opportunistic path- ogens and depletion of beneficial commensals in mastitis samples.

bacterial composition and diversity in breast milk samples from mothers living in taiwan and mainland china.frontiers in microbiology 8 965 2017.urbaniak c. angelini m. gloor g. b.  reid g. human milk microbiota profiles in relation to birthing method gestation and infant gender.

bacterial genera having abundance above 0.2 of all bacterial sequences were plotted.samples fig.

a lefse was used to compare abundance of all bacterial genera between healthy-controls sam and am samples.significant bacterial genera were determined by kruskal-wallis test p  0.05 with lda score greater than3.

bacterial pathogens utilize bacterial secretion systemand two component systemto regulate virulence and its pathogenicity through which they attack and infect host cell.

these results together with shift in microbial com- position suggest that different metabolic pathways observed in mastitis individuals were mainly due to altered bacterial communities.in conclusion our study confirmed complex microbial diversity with significantly altered bacterial commu- nities and imputed functions in sam and am women.

other commonly found species in healthy human milk included ruminococcus flavefaciens propionibacterium acnes eubacterium siraeum akkermansia mucin- iphila ruminococcus albus faecalibacterium prausnitzii eubacterium coprostanoligenes veillonella parvula and acinetobacter junii each representing 1.92 to 0.72 of healthy bacterial sequences.

characterization of the diversity and temporal stability of bacterial communities in human milk.

international breastfeeding journal 3 6 doi2008.patel s. h. vaidya y. h. joshi c. g.  kunjadia a. p. culture-dependent assessment of bacterial diversity from human milk with lactational mastitis.

plos one 5 e9085 doi2010.boix-amoros a. collado m. c.  mira a. relationship between milk microbiota bacterial load macronutrients and human cells during lactation.

two-component system bacterial secretion system and motility proteins in sam and am samples.

uncultured bacteria accounted for 36.73 34.89 and 22.32 of total bacterial sequences in healthy-controls sam and am samples respectively.

