root exposure to cu ions is reported to inhibit a specific efflux pump in the plant cells at the base of the stele causing iaa flux in the root tip cells to be modified.the cuo nps were more effective in induction of root hairproliferation than cu ions but this could be attributed to dilution of the ion concentration in the rhizosphere space below that of the gradient of ions being released from np aggregated on the root surface.the phenomenon of cuo np-enhanced root hair formation could benefit plants in the field because root hairs are involved in nutrient and wateruptake.it is possible that the entrapment of the cuo nps onto the root hairs  as revealed by microscopic imagingis important to this phenomenon.lateral root growth proliferation.

with sand as the growth matrix for 7-day wheat seedlings these morphological changes occur at a dose of 10 mg cukg sand.shortening of root length in wheat is extreme in acidic soils  and correlates with dissolution of cuo nps whereas in calcareous soil there ismitigation of toxicity.the changes in root hair patterning may not be universal for plants for instance cu ion treatment of cowpea also causes root stunting but the root hairs become shortened.the gross morphological changes observed in wheat tips grown with cuo nps resemble those from high iaa levels.

in the absence of root colonization association of cuo nps with root hairs on the wheat seedling root is revealed light microscopy small image.increased metal is due to both the plant response to the nps and the metal released by dissolution in the rhizosphere or in planta.

the molecular basis of stimulation of lateral root primordia is not fully understood although oscillations in iaa in the root tip are proposed to be involved and iaa signaling is required in the transforming cells.-clearly any changes in iaa triggered by zno nps must differ from those caused by cuo nps because the resulting root morphologies are distinct .

2017 19 500- 510.burke d. j. pietrasiak n. situ s. f. abenojar e. c. porche m. kraj p. lakliang y. samia a. c. iron oxide and titanium dioxide nanoparticle effects on plant performance and root associated microbes.

peerj 2017 5 e2891.richard o. pineau c. loubet s. chalies c. vile d. marques l. berthomieu p. diversity analysis of the response to zn within the arabidopsis thaliana species revealed low contribution of zn translocation to zn tolerance and a new role for zn in lateral root development.

total environ.2015 514 131-139.monreal c. m. derosa m. mallubhotla s. c. bindraban p. s. dimkpa c. nanotechnologies for increasing the crop use efficiency of fertilizer micronutrients.

2012 8 e1002784.pieterse c. m. j. zamioudis c. berendsen r. l. weller d. m. van wees s. c. m. bakker p. a. h. m. induced systemic resistance by beneficial microbes.

zno nps are internalized by root cells of a wetland plantand tio2 nps enter maize root cells.the degree of bioaccumulation of metal from cuo nps is influenced by other factors such as weathering of the nps.

the distance between root cap and root hair initiation is very short for the seedlings grown with cuo nps green arrow.

the physical mechanisms to limit toxicity differ between the metals excess cu is held largely within plant cell walls whereas zn is contained within vacuoles.studies with cuo nps indicate that the capture of cu by root cell walls is important to limit cu flux into the shoots of the rice plant.both cuo and zno nps increase lignification in roots of several plant species through processes that involve altered peroxidase activities.these changes may be a generalized response to increased ros in the plant tissue due to enhanced metal levels.the nps also manipulate the plasticity of root morphology with outcomes that differ between the zno and cuo nps .

from 12- 14 cm for controls to 4 cm with cuo nps depending on dose and there is prolific elongated root hair formation close to the root tip.

lateral root formation is dependent on zn in other plantsfdoi and consequently the changes in wheat caused by the zno nps may depend on their dissolution in the rhizosphere or root tissues.

we speculate that the lowered transcript levels could be due to a protective effect of the pco6 biofilm  on the root in which nps become embedded likelyaltering the mobility of released metal and thus reducing the exposure of root epidermal cells to the released metal or nps.

increased lateral root formation zno nps and proliferation of elongated root hairs cuo nps would have a beneficial impact on plant nutrition and water uptake.

