34 and 41.In rodent models such as those of high-fat diet HFD- induced insulin resistance many interventions targeted to in- hibit the pathogenic factors listed above lead to improvement in insulin sensitivity and in some instances resistance to weight gain 4 11 23 26 28 36 47 58 59.

Thus a number of preclinical and clinical investigations have shown the beneficial effect of curcumin and other dietary polyphenols in attenuating body weight gain improving insulin sensitivity and preventing diabetes development in rodent models and prediabetic subjects.

Other inter- vention studies with dietary polyphenols have also found improve- ments in insulin resistance.

In addition low-grade chronic inflammation is associated with obesity and contributes to insulin resistance and the development of dia- betes 7 34.Major pathogenetic factors linking obesity to metabolic diseases include elevated levels of circulating free fatty acids endoplasmic reticulum ER stress altered levels of adipo- kines e.g.

In addition a key component of the induction of insulin resistance is oxidative stress 4 11 28 34 41.

Polyphenols including cur- cumin have also been found to ameliorate hepatosteatosis and insulin resistance in fructose-fed rodents 15 39.At the same time linking these beneficial effects to a primary mechanism of action of curcumin has been difficult due to the pharmacological issues discussed above.

This sulfhydryl reactivity may explain the many other reported actions of curcumin and account for its apparent lack of specificity 42 particularly in cell culture experiments.As indicated above FFA-mediated insulin resistance in- volves ER stress 4 34.

Curcumin has been demonstrated to mitigate ER stress in vivo in mice on an HFD and in vitro in primary adipocytes 53 as well as in palmitate-induced insulin resistance in human umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVECs 61.

These effects were associated with decreased lipolysis resulting in less hepatic steatosis and insulin resis- tance.

It may be noted however that studies of curcumin 53 54 63 as well as other polyphenols notably resveratrol 9 18 have implicated AMPK activation and upregulation of fibroblast growth factor 21 FGF21 amount andor action 38 62 both of which have been documented to improve insulin resistance 14 38.

