all patients received three days of pretreatment with vancomycin and full bowel lavage.with regard to fmt treatment in severe or complicated cdi agrawal and colleagues recently published the largest multicenter retro- spective case series to date comprising patients with recurrent n  89 severe n  45 or complicated cdi n  12 treated with fmt agrawal et al.

recently research has shown that patients with severe cdi at diagnosis had a lower fecal microbiota diversity compared with those without severe disease which supports the role of fmt in the treatment of severe or complicated cdi seekatz et al.

information on pretreatment mortality or additional treatment with antibiotics was missing.discussionbased on this literature review fmt with or with- out additional antibiotic cdi treatment seems to be a promising curative treatment option in patients with severe or complicated cdi who do not respond to conventional antibiotic treatment.

2008 earhart 2008 hall and berger 2008. recently cammarota and col- leagues showed that the frequency of surgery in patients with cdi decreased rapidly after the introduction of fmt as treatment for those patients with severe cdi cammarota et al.

following this protocol 29 patients with severe cdi unrespon- sive to antimicrobial therapy oral vancomycin fidaxomicin rectal vancomycin in patients with ileus in combination with or without metronida- zole intravenously were treated achieving an overall positive treatment response of 93 fischer et al.

they developed a protocol for treatment of severe and complicated cdi consisting of fmt followed by vancomycin therapy for patients with pseudomembranes at the time of fmt followed by a second fmt for patients without clinical response during vancomy- cin treatment.

subsequently 30 papers were retrieved in full text and of these 23 studies met our eligibility criteria.we found 12 case reports and 11 case series about fmt as treatment for severe or complicated cdi table 1.case reportstwelve case reports have been published where fulminant colitis was treated with fmt via enema colonoscopy or a nasoduodenalnasojeju- nal tube table 1. the patients described all had severe or complicated cdi and received fmt as a last resort treatment.

yet the curative potential of fmt in such a setting has high clinical relevance because 3-10 of patients with cdi develop severe life-threaten- ing disease requiring colectomy in up to 30 of patients neal et al.

after an initial episode of cdi 20-25 of patients develop a recurrent infection johnson 2009. treatment of recurrentdepartment of intensive care academic medical center amsterdam the netherlandschris j. j. mulder md phddepartment of gastroenterology and hepatology vu university medicalcenter amsterdam the netherlands.abraham goorhuis md phddepartment of internal medicine academic medical center amsterdam the netherlandscdi can effectively be achieved by the instillation of stools from a healthy donor after initial antibi- otic treatment of cdi van nood et al.

2010.originally fmt was conceived as a curative treatment modality by eiseman and colleagues in 1958 who first reported successful fmt via enema in four patients with severe pseudomem- branous colitis pmc due to cdi eiseman et al.

2016b.interestingly it has been suggested that addi- tional antibiotic cdi treatment after fmt fol- lowed by a second fmt may improve outcomes in patients with severe cdi borody and khoruts 2012 weingarden et al.

in addition data on mortality rates of fmt forsevere or complicated cdi should be compared with those after surgery.in the meantime in case of severe or complicated cdi unresponsive to conventional treatment a practical approach would be to actively consider fmt and to weigh the decision whether or not to continue antibiotic cdi treatment on an indi- vidual basis depending on the clinical condition of the patient.fundingthis research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public commercial or not- for-profit sectors.conflict of interest statementthe authors declare that there is no conflict of interest.referencesagrawal m. aroniadis o. brandt l. kelly c. freeman s. surawicz c. et al.

ten patients died between 19 days and 7 months after fmt as a result of unrelated causes including cancer n  3 stroke n  1 pneumonia n  1 advanced alzheimer disease n  1 and decom- pensated heart failure n  4. with regard to mortality the authors did not differentiate between patients treated for recurrent severe or complicated cdi.aroniadis and colleagues performed a multicenter follow up study on the use of fmt for severe cdi complicated cdi or both.

fmt with or without additional antibioticcdi treatment appears to be a promising curative treatment option in patients withsevere and complicated cdi or only complicated cdi who do not respond sufficientlyto conventional antibiotic treatment.

the patients described all had severe or complicatedcdi did not respond to conventional cdi antibiotic treatment and received fmt as last resort treatment.

