syntrophic interactions are usually associated with hydrogen interspecies electron transfer orand formate interspecies elec- tron transfer - and the relative importance of an electron carrier is difficult to determine because the concentrations of hydrogen and formate are extremely low in syntrophic systems.another possible mechanism for syntrophic methano genesis was recently reported to be direct interspecies electron transfer diet in which free electron flow from one cell to another is shuttled via electric current through conductive ma- terials rather than via the diffusion of hydrogen orand for- mate.

the stimulatory effect of cyste- ine on syntrophic methanogenesis offers remarkable potential for improving the performance of anaerobic digestion and conceptually broaden strategies for interspecies electron trans- fer in syntrophic metabolism.keywords propionate degradation .

microbial community analysis po- tentially suggested that cysteine-stimulated syntrophic propi- onate oxidization was primarily performed by pelotomaculum and methanobacteriaceae.conclusionin summary this study demonstrated that at an appropriate concentration cysteine might function as an electron carrier to stimulate syntrophic propionate oxidization and ch4 pro- duction.

microb ecol 2017 73916-924 doi 10.1007s00248-016-0882-xcysteine-accelerated methanogenic propionate degradation in paddy soil enrichmentli zhuang 1  jinlian ma1  jia tang 1 ziyang tang1  shungui zhou 1received 11 june 2016  accepted 17 october 2016  published online 5 november 2016 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2016abstract propionate degradation is a critical step during the conversion of complex organic matter under methanogenic conditions and it requires a syntrophic cooperation between propionate-oxidizing bacteria and methanogenic archaea.

increasing evidences suggest that interspecies electron trans- fer for syntrophic metabolism is not limited to the reducing equivalents of hydrogen and formate.

this study tested the ability of an electron shuttle to mediate interspecies electron transfer in syntrophic methanogenesis.

the potential catalyticeffect involved cysteine serving as an electron carrier to me- diate interspecies electron transfer in syntrophic propionatepartners at a concentration of 100 mm.

pelotomaculum obligately syntrophic propionate-oxidizing bacteria and hydrogenotrophic methanogens of the family methano bacteriaceae are predominant in cysteine-mediated methano- genic propionate degradation.

syntrophic interactionintroductionpropionate is one of the important intermediates in the con- version of complex organic matter under methanogenic con- ditions.

808 tianyuan road guangzhou 510650 chinacess can be performed via syntrophic cooperations between propionate-oxidizing bacteria and methanogenic archaea .

for example viggi and coworkers  showed that conductive iron oxide magnetite can trigger a faster rate of syntrophic methane production from propionate relative to the magnetite- free treatments.

however the ability of electron shuttles to facilitate electron transfer in syntrophic interactions has rarely been tested.

demonstrated that l-cysteine can mediate electron transfer in syntrophic co-cultures of geobacter sulfurreducens and wolinella succinogenes in which interspe- cies electron transfer does not proceed via hydrogen as an electron carrier.

the au- thors proposed that neutral red crystals harvest electrons from organic matter oxidization and enable direct electron transfer to methanosarcina for generating methane.the ability of an electron shuttle to stimulate syntrophic metabolism conceptually broadens potential strategies for interspecies electron transfer a concept that is central to the functioning of methanogenic microbial communities.

this study tested the ability of different electron shuttles to mediate interspecies electron transfer under metha nogenic conditions and the experimental results showed that cysteine is capable of facilitating syntrophic methanogenesis from propionate a process in which cys- teine might function as an electron carrier between pelotomaculum and hydrogenotrophic methanogens.

