The biohydrogenation of polyunsaturated acids by dairy propionibacteria may enhance CFAs content in fermented dairy products but could be limited by the low polyunsaturated acid availability in the matrix.

Parayre S. Falentin H. Deutsch S.-M. Boudry G. Jan G. The first dairy product exclusively fermented by Propionibacterium freudenreichii A new vector to study probiotic potentialities in vivo.

In P. jensenii 2-pyrrolidone-5-carboxylic acid 3-phenyllactic acid hydroxyphenyl lactic acid and 3-phenyllactic acid were shown to have antimicrobial activity .

Rainio A. Vahvaselka M. Suomalainen T. Laakso S. Reduction of linoleic acid inhibition in production of conjugated linoleic acid by Propionibacterium freudenreichii ssp.

As a consequence biohydrogenation of polyunsaturated fatty acids by probiotic bacteria such as dairy propionibacteria opens the possibility of developing dairy or vegetable fermented food from ingredients rich in polyunsaturated fatty acid designed for high-risk cancer populations.Bioremediation against Carcinogenic ComponentsDairy propionibacteria among other probiotic bacteria have the ability to bind in vitro and in vivo to heavy metals or toxins associated with high risk of cancers which may contribute to reduced risk factors for cancer development.

Growth of dairy propionibacteria on stressful mediums such as fermented dairy products confers a high tolerance to acid and bile salt stresses in vitro and in vivo .

The use of dairy propionibacteria as an animal probiotic to modulate gut microbiota or pathogen infections is also a promising new application of dairy propionibacteria.

Dairy propionibacteria such as P. freudenreichii produce the isomer cis-9 trans-11 octadecadienoic Rumenic acid RA in culture and in fermented dairy products from LA and isomerize also the c12-double bond of LNA and g-linolenic acid .

Jiang J. Bjorck L. Fonden R. Production of conjugated linoleic acid by dairy starter cultures.

The typical Swiss-type cheese flavor is due mainly to the presence of dairy propionibacteria that produces flavor compounds by three metabolism pathways lactate and aspartate fermentation fat hydrolysis and amino acid catabolism.

