shotgun metagenomic libraries preparation and sequencing using solid 5500xl platform life technology usa was performed according to the recommendations of the manufacturer using the following reagent kits 5500 solid fragment library core kit solid fragment library barcoding kit solid flowchip kit solid fwd sr s50 kit solid run cycle buffer kit.

the sequencing was performed using the solid 5500xl platform according to the recommendations of the manufacturer.kazan russian federation moscow russian federation saint-petersburg russian federationdata accessibility the datasets are deposited in the ena project id prjeb18041 url value of the datathe data describes the human gut microbiota composition in two cohorts of the patients with alcoholism manifesting distinct degrees of liver dysfunctions patients with alcoholic dependence syndrome ads alcoholics without advanced liver disease and patients with alcoholic liver cir- rhosis alc alcoholics with advanced liver disease.the data can be used for identifying the changes of gut microbiota associated with alcoholism as well as with the associated liver damage at the levels of community structure taxonomic com- position and gene potential functional composition.the data can be used for validating the universality of potential biomarkers of alcoholism- associated dysbiosis via the meta-analysis together with the published gut metagenomes of the world populations.the data can be used in phylogeographic analyses of human microbiota to assess the genomic variations of the gut microbial species typical for russian population as compared with the other world populations.datathe data represent 99 shotgun metagenomes of stool samples collected from the patients with ads and alc in 3 clinical centers from 3 russian cities - moscow kazan and saint-petersburg.

data in brief 11 2017 98-10299keywordsgut microbiota metagenome alcoholismalcohol dependence syndrome alcoholic liver cirrhosis dysbiosisshotgun metagenomicsusing shotgun whole-genome sequencing on solid platform.

published by elsevier inc. this is an openaccess article under the cc by license specifications tablesubject areabiologymore specific subject areabacterial metagenomicstype of datatext files sequenceshow data was acquireddna sequencing using solid 5500xl platformdata formatrawexperimental factorsexperimental featuresdata source locationdna extracted from stool samplesbarcoded fragment non-paired read libraries were created from 5 mg of total dna for each of the samples.

data articledata on gut metagenomes of the patients with alcoholic dependence syndromeand alcoholic liver cirrhosisalexander v. tyakht  veronika b. dubinkina  vera y. odintsova  konstantin s. yarygin  boris a. kovarsky  alexander v. pavlenko dmitry s. ischenko  anna s. popenko  dmitry g. alexeev  anastasiya y. taraskina  regina f. nasyrova evgeny m. krupitski  nino v. shalikiani  igor g. bakulin  petr l. shcherbakov  lyubov o. skorodumova andrei k. larin  elena s. kostryukova rustam a. abdulkhakov  sayar r. abdulkhakov  sergey y. malanin  ruzilya k. ismagilova tatiana v. grigoryeva  elena n. ilina  vadim m. govorun a moscow institute of physics and technology institutskiy per.

we collected 99 stool samples from the patients with alcoholic dependence syndrome n 14 72 and alco- holic liver cirrhosis n 14 27. each of the samples was surveyedn corresponding author.e-mail address a.v.

the patients were enrolled in moscow clinical scientific center moscow narcology dispensary of republic of tatarstan kazan and saint-petersburg bekhterev psychoneurological research institute saint-petersburg.

the cohort included 2 groups 72 patients with the diagnosis alcoholic depen- dence syndrome and 27 - with alcoholic liver cirrhosis.patients inclusion and exclusion criteriageneral exclusion criteria non-alcoholic liver diseases decompensated diseases of other organs intake of probiotics andor prebiotics medications non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs anti- biotics and proton pump inhibitors less than 1 month prior to the sample collection abdominal102a.v.

