from the nmi curves we can see that all methods achieved higher nmi values near 97 threshold and dbh has the highest nmi value.

and our dbh also has the ability of handling large datasets.discussionconsidering the fact that de bruijn graph representations of similar sequences in a cluster contain more information than a sin- gle seed sequence reported by traditional heuristic otus cluster- ing methods in this work we developed a novel db-based heuris- tic clustering method namely dbh to bin huge amounts of 16s rrna gene sequences into otus by introducing a new seeds selec- tion strategy and simultaneously considering the sequence errors.

compared with hierarchical clustering and heuristic algorithms the model- based clustering methods bypass the selection of a constant dis- tance threshold and achieve better clustering quality but they do not perform well on large-scale datasets and may have high com- putational burden.hierarchical clustering methods either based on average linage or complete linkage need to build a whole distance matrix of all the sequences which adds the computational burden and mem- ory usage.

1. a flowchart showing the otus generating process with dbh.dbh algorithmthe main motivation of our dbh method is to overcome the sensitivity of seed selection which is a main problem in traditional heuristic clustering methods as well as to reduce the large mem- ory usage of hierarchical clustering methods for huge 16s rrna sequences.

the number of otus achieved in different error rate is shown in  from which it can be evidently observed that dbh can facilitate thetable 2nmi scores of five methods at 95 similarity levels with different error rates.table 3the average and sd standard deviation of nmi values for five algorithms on 10 randomly order changed v2 data.the number in the parenthesis is sd and the species assignments are used as the ground truths to compute nmi.overestimation of otus number with higher error rate compared to other methods.experiment 2 v2 dataset of human gutin this section one massive real-world sequence dataset v2 was used to evaluate the performance of five methods.

8. nmi scores of uclust cd-hit and dbh methods on the global 16s rrna gene sequence dataset.that just dysc is sensitive to the sequence input order while our dbh esprit-tree uclust and cd-hit methods are robust to the se- quence input order.experiment 3 global 16s rrna gene sequence datasetin experiment 1 and 2 it has been demonstrated that dbh achieved higher accuracy than esprit-tree uclust cd-hit and dysc and had more robustness to deal with sequence error.

as can be seen from a our dbh has the best nmi val- ues than other four methods and esprit-tree also achieved higher nmi scores than uclust cd-hit and dysc.

nmi score ranges from 0 to 1. nmi  1 means the clustering result agrees with the ground truth while nmi  0 means that the clustering result is random.experiment 1 simulated datasetwe first adopted a simulated dataset to evaluate the cluster- data in fasta or fastq format to simulate data with error rates and abundance.

10 20 and 30 the nmi scores at different similarity levels are shown in b from which we can see that the nmi scores of min- size  10 are lower than that of minsize  20 30 while nmi scores are almost equal at minsize  20 30. thus we use minsize  20 as the default value in dbh.the massive amount of data generated by high-throughput py- rosequencing technologies poses serious challenges to existing al- gorithms.

dbh a de bruijn graph-based heuristic method for clustering large-scale 16s rrna sequences into otusze-gang wei shao-wu zhangkey laboratory of information fusion technology of ministry of education college of automation northwestern polytechnical university xi'an 710072 chinaa r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 10 november 2016revised 28 march 2017accepted 20 april 2017available online 26 april 2017keywordsde bruijn graph clusteringoperational taxonomic units 16s rrnametagenomicrecent sequencing revolution driven by high-throughput technologies has led to rapid accumulation of 16s rrna sequences for microbial communities.

to improve the speed of assigning unchecked sequences a multi- core pipeline is used to assign the sequences for large data.

by searching the reference database with megab- lat  and using a stringent criterion to annotate the sequences in v2 dataset the annotated sequences are classified into 671 species and 283 genera .

in the phase of greedy clus- tering it needs to scan all the sequences to form temporary clus-ters according to the parameter th  thus the maximum complex-ity is in the order of on x l where n is the total number of se- quences and l is the average length of the sequences.

although many heuris- tic methods have been proposed for otu inferences with low computational complexity they just se- lect one sequence as the seed for each cluster and the results are sensitive to the selected sequences that represent the clusters.

it penalizes two types of errors wrongly assigning sequences with same species labels intotable 1the maximum nim score achieved by using different methods on the simulated dataset.methodsespret-tree 97uclust 97dysc 97cd-hit 97dbh 97maximum nmi0.97520.98010.97580.97230.9854fig.

