2017 279 1576-1585 httpsdoi.org10.4014jmb.1704.04045jmbdebaryomyces hansenii strains from valle de los pedroches iberian dry meat products isolation identification characterization and selection for starter culturesjose ramos1 yessica melero1 laura ramos-moreno1 carmen michan2 and lourdes cabezas3departamento de microbiologia escuela tecnica superior de ingenieria agronomica y de montes universidad de cordoba campus de rabanales edificio severo ochoa cordoba 14071 spaindepartamento de bioquimica y biologia molecular facultad de ciencias universidad de cordoba campus de rabanales edificio severo ochoa cordoba 14071 spaindepartamento de bromatologia y tecnologia de los alimentos facultad de veterinaria universidad de cordoba campus de rabanales edificio darwin cordoba 14071 spainyeasts filamentous fungi and bacteria colonize the surface of fermented sausages during the ripening process.

d. hansenii also helps with the catabolism of organic acids lactic and acetic acids reduction of nitrite and ammonia production 8 9. notwithstanding and as mentioned above d. hansenii is a highly heterogeneous species with wide phenotypic differences between strains as regards the biochemical activities that contribute to the sensorial characteristics of the final product 10. the introduction of starter cultures in the industrial production of fermented sausages allows a shortened ripening period ensures color development enhances flavor and improves product safety 11. however this can also provoke a loss of the unique organoleptic characteristics of naturally fermented sausages 12. the most common starter cultures used in the manufacture of fermented sausage products belong to different species of lactic acid bacteria and staphylococcus 13 14 but in some fermented sausages from southern european countries molds and yeasts are also being included as starter cultures for their positive effects on flavor and texture 2 6 14 15.d.

applied medium- scale industrial tests are currently in progress.keywords yeasts debaryomyces hansenii fermented sausages selection of starter strains valle de los pedrochesintroductionyeasts and lactic acid bacteria are two predominant groups of microorganisms usually found in fermented sausages yet whereas lactobacilli are mainly in the meat batter yeasts are most frequently found on the sausage surface 1. studies on the yeast flora of fermented sausages are very limited compared with those focused on bacteria even though they are considered important components ofthe microbiota growing on these products.

it is important to note that in addition to contributing to the sausage flavor an increased lipolytic activity in natural fermented sausages has been related to a decrease in lipid peroxidation and thus toxic aldehyde content 49. metabolic products from lipolytic enzymes as stated above together with proteolytic enzymes influence flavor development in dry fermented sausages 50. in particular the amine content has been reported to increase during the ripening process 51. moreover adding external catalytic enzymes has been proposed to accelerate flavor development in these meat products although with mixed results 50 51. therefore a1584ramos et al.slow process using selected starter strains with a high lipolytic potential is preferred to improve flavor and avoid lipid peroxidation.using these characteristics as a guide the lrf2 lrf1 and lr2 strains were selected as potential starter cultures and are currently being tested for industrial production.

in general the qualitative characteristics of naturally fermented sausages are known to be largely dependent on i the quality of the ingredients and raw materials ii the specific conditions of the processing and ripening and iii the composition of the microbial populations.accordingly this study attempted to isolate and identify the indigenous yeast microbiota present in three types of iberian fermented sausage lomo chorizo and salchichon from the valle de los pedroches region cordoba spain.

in these products the highest counts of yeasts are obtained at the end of the fermentation stage 2 3 although they are greatly reduced in the final product 2. although debaryomyces hansenii is the most commonly isolated yeast from fermented sausages an important diversity of other yeast species has also been found in these meat products but with less occurrence such as trichosporondebaryomyces hansenii from iberian sausages1577ovoides yarrowia lipolytica citeromyces matritensis and candida spp.

furthermore these strains are also being studied molecularly to improve their stress resistance.in summary the results of this study will contribute to i improving the sensorial characteristics of fermented sausagesthe control of contaminating bacterial and mold populations in dry-cured meat products iii preservation of the indigenous yeast microbiota and iv understanding of new mechanisms involved in tolerance to abiotic stresses.acknowledgmentsthis research was supported by xx plan propio de investigacion and programa fortalecimiento to jose ramos universidad de cordoba.

as with the tvc the yeast levels were higher in lomo than in the other two products and also more elevated than those previously reported for fermented sausages from other locations up to 6.0 log cfug 1 2 34.the presence of microorganisms was investigated both on the surface of the three products and in the batter meat.

i toxic biogenic amines can be found in dry fermented sausages at relevant concentrations and the amounts of these amines have been previously related to both temperature and nacl in salami due to their influence on the lactic acid bacteria populations 45. ii although debaryomyces has been reported as a halotolerant yeast this character significantly varies between strains belonging to the same species 46. iii finally d. hansenii is relatively sensitive to high temperatures.

1 2 4 5. the generation of volatile and aroma compounds by d. hansenii is considered an important contribution to the ripening process and has been found to be strongly dependent on the clones strains or biotypes present during the maturation 6 7. d. hansenii can prevent the formation of lipid oxidation products in fermented sausages and contributes to improve sensory components principally flavors such as ethyl esters.

these vcuarluedesmaegarteeprrooduugchtlsy3w6i-th38p.rehvoiowuesvceoruwnthsefnorinsvimesitliagratdinryg the yeast presence in the meat batter none of the three products exhibited any significant presence even though yeasts have been isolated from other sausage batters 4. consequently the yeasts present in the casing of these dry meat products were further studied.isolation and identification of yeastsfrom a total of around 100 independent casing yeast colonies diverse isolates were selected according to their different morphologies sizes andor colony colors.

a value of p  0.01 was considered significant using instat software.resultstotal microbe and yeast viable count determinationto start this study the total microorganisms and yeast viable counts from the casing and batter meat of lomo chorizo and salchichon from the valle de los pedroches region were isolated.

microbiological profiles ph and titratable acidity of chorizo and salchichon two spanish dry fermented sausages manufactured with ostrich deer or pork meat.

2008. microbial and physicochemical succession in fermented sausages produced with bacteriocinogenic culture of lactobacillus sakei and semi- purified bacteriocin mesenterocin y. meat sci.

100 836-845.karsloglu b cicek ue kolsarici n candogan k. 2014. lipolytic changes in fermented sausages produced with turkey meat effects of starter culture and heat treatment.

