our findings contribute to the understanding of the regulatory factor for the changes in the gut microbiota composition with aging.keywords gut microbiota aging iga-seq iga enterobacteriaceae clostridiaceaeintroductionhuman gut is inhabited by a trillion of microorganisms which constitute the gut microbiota  .

therefore we speculated that the age-related changes of iga response against the gut microbiota might be one of the mechanisms causing the age-associated changes of gut microbiota composition.

to prove our hypothesis fecal samples from 40 healthy subjects adult group n  20 an average of 35 years old elderly group n  20 an average of 76 years old were collected and the gut microbiota composition and the response of iga to gut microbiota were investigated.

however the factors that regulate changes in the gut microbiota composition during aging are not well understood.it is known that the gut mucosal immune response is significantly compromised in the elderly and this decline with aging is associated with diminished antigen-specific antibody titre in the intestinal environment  .

however the association between the changes in gut microbiota composition during aging process and intestinal iga response to the gut microbiota is not well understood.

in this study we demonstrated the association between the changes of gut microbiota composition with aging and taxon-specific iga response.materials and methodssubjectsto evaluate the changes in the gut microbiota composition that occur with aging 40 healthy subjects who were selected from community-dwelling japanese volunteers one sample per subject were assigned to two groups adult group n 20 aged 33-39 years old with an average of 35 years old male and female  11 and elderly group n  20 aged 71-84 years old with an average of 76 years old male and female  11.ethics statementall subjects were enrolled in the study protocol approved by the ethics committee of kensyou-kai incorporated medical institution osaka japan approval no.

for all analyses p-values of  0.05 were considered statistically significant.2 accession numbersdna sequences of 16s rrna gene metagenome data were deposited at ddbj under accession numbers dra005602.resultsdifferences in the gut microbiota composition between adults and the elderlythe pre-sort fractions of the 40 healthy subjects were evaluated for differences in the gut microbiota composition between adults and the elderly.

taken together with the exception of clostridialesf  the gut microbiota compositional differences observed in thisstudy illustrated the decrease of beneficial microbes and increase of the potential pathogenic microbes in abundance in human gut with aging.consistent with previous study which showed that the iga concentration in intestinal environment was not significantly different between adult and elderly groups   our result showed that there was no significant difference in thefecal iga concentration between the adult and elderly groups.

 1  2  toshitaka odamaki1  1  1  eri mitsuyama1  jin-zhong xiao1 and 21 next generation science institute morinaga milk industry co. ltd. zama japan 2 applied immunology graduate school of biological science nara institute of science and technology ikoma japanedited byjose roberto mineo federal university of uberlandia brazilreviewed byryo inoue kyoto prefectural university japanmaryam dadar razi vaccine and serum researchinstitute irancorrespondence jin-zhong xiao specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 10 may 2017accepted 29 august 2017published 12 september 2017citation sugahara h okai s odamaki t wong cb kato k mitsuyama e xiao j-z and shinkura r 2017 decreased taxon-specificiga response in relation to the changes of gut microbiota composition in the elderly.

81757.doi gut microbiota is known to change with aging however the underlying mechanisms have not been well elucidated.

immunoglobulin a iga is the dominant class of antibody secreted by the intestinal mucosa and are thought to play a key role in the regulation of the gut microbiota.

some diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease autoimmune and allergic diseases obesity and diabetes have been suggested as a result of dysbiosis induced by the changes in the types and numbers of gut microbiota  .

the changes of gut microbiota are affected by lifestyle diet and xenometabolites   .

furthermore many reports have demonstrated that the gut microbiota composition changes during the aging process            .

immunoglobulin a iga which is the major class of antibody secreted by the gut mucosa is thought to be one of the key factors for the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis    .

