however deficiency of essential dietary n-3 pufainduces a state of compositional and functional disturbance to the gut microbiome and metabolic phenotype which may have implications for subsequent metabolic disorders.the mechanisms by which n-3 pufa interact with the gut microbiota and host metabolism are slowly being resolved.

n-3 status also induced a number of changes to gut microbiota composition such that n3- offspring had greater abundance of tenericutes anaeroplasma and coriobacteriaceae.

these results demonstrate that dietary n-3 pufa regulate gut microbiota homoeostasis whereby n-3 deficiency may induce a state of disturbance.

further studies are warranted to examine whether these microbial and metabolic disturbances are causally related to changes in metabolic health outcomes.key words microbiome microbiota n-3 pufa scfa metabolomicsthe gut microbiota is a virtual 'organ' referring collectively to all of the micro-organisms residing in the gastrointestinal tract.

furthermore disruption to the composition and function of the gut microbiota has been associated with a wide range of physiological and even mental health disorders.

owing to the 'flexible' nature of the gut microbiota it is highly susceptible to change by a number of environmental stressors to the host including infection medication use stress birth mode and diet.

the metabolic outcomes of this modernised diet have been well characterised however the rates of obesity diabetes and chronic metabolic disease have continued to increase.expanding knowledge of the role of the gut microbiota in such disorders indicates the potential for this microbial 'organ' as a new mechanism and target by which nutritional interventions may prevent onset of diet-related metabolic disorders.

therefore it is essential to understand how nutri- tional deficiencies affect gut microbiota composition and conversely how nutritional interventions can restore normal composition and function.despite much evidence pointing to the role of excess sugar and sfa intake in the epidemic of diet-induced metabolic dis- ease one of the most drastic changes in the western diet over the past five decades has been the intake of n-3 pufa relative to n-6 pufa.

for example high n-6 dietary intake induces gut microbiota dysbiosis resulting in increased intestinal perme- ability metabolic dysfunction and adipose tissue inflammation which is reversed by n-3 feeding.

similarly using a germ- free model caesar et al.have shown that a diet containing fish oil rich in n-3 pufa reverses adipose tissue inflammation through toll-like receptor signalling which is mediated through comprehensive changes in gut microbiota composition.

similarly it has been shown that parental n-3 pufa intake altered offspring gut microbiota composition in mice and dampened the immune response.

n-3 deficiency alters gut microbiome961table 1. macronutrient profiles of intervention dietscon control n3 n-3 pufa-supplemented diet n3- n-3 pufa-deficient diet la linoleic acid c18  2n-6 ala a-linolenic acid c18  3n-3 epa c20  5n-3 dha c22  6n-3 n-6 n-6 pufa n-3 n-3 pufa.acid profile.

n-3 deficiency alters gut microbiome963amatingpnd0weaningendb151050conn3n3-30week 122826242220conn3n3-tissue collectionc6420121086420adipose tissueconn3n3-erythrocytesconn3n3-week 12252015105080week 126040200liver3020100conn3n3-conn3n3-conn3n3-fig.

2. effects of n-3 pufa on caecal gut microbiota in mothers and adult offspring a principle coordinate analysis of microbiota composition.

n-3 deficiency alters gut microbiome965brc9gutgroup anaeroplasmataceae anaeroplasmatales anaeroplasma4c0d2 cyanobacteria mollicutes tenericutes 4c0d2o6other 4c0d2o5other4c0d2unculorganism familyxllllncertaesedisgelria thermoanaerobacteraceae thermoanaerobacterales 4c0d2b6other 4c0d2unculbacterium 4c0d2b5otherroseburia enterococcus enterococcaceaeclostridium coriobacteriaceaeunculcoriobacteriales coriobacteriia coriobacteriaceae desulfovibrioclostridialesunculrumenbacteriumcandidatusarthromitus rf9unculbacterium mollicutesrf9unculbacother lachnospiraceaeincertaesedisenterobacteriaceae gammaproteobacteria enterobacteriales escherichiashigellaturicibacterterobacteriaceae escherichia-shigella chnospiraceae incertae sedis riobacteriaceae enterorhabdusollicutes rf9 uncultured mollicutes bacterium other cultured mollicutes bacteriumostridiaceae clostridium ostridiaceae terococcaceaeferribacteraceae mucispirillum uncultured bacterium ferribacteressulfovibrionaceae desulfovibrioostridiales uncultured uncultured rumen bacterium minococcaceae hydrogenoanaerobacterium anobacteria 4c0d-2 uncultured bacteriumotherother anobacteria 4c0d-2ollicutes rf9 uncultured rumen bacterium other anobacteria 4c0d-2 uncultured organismotherother anobacteria 4c0d-2 otheranobacteriamily xiii incertae sedis anaerovorax mily xiii incertae sedis aeroplasmataceae anaeroplasma aeroplasmataceaenericutes ermoanaerobacteraceae gelria ermoanaerobacteraceae riobacteriaceae unculturedfig.

