considering the results of esi-ms and nmr the major secreted enzyme of b. uniforms l8 should be b-agarase which specifically cleaves the b-14-glycosidic bonds between g and a figure b. however the end product of ap degradation by b. uniforms l8 is d-galactose so it is possible that during the later period of hydrolysis b. uniforms l8 secreted another glycoside hydrolase which could help to hydrolyze neoagarobiose to d and a. the reason that 36-anhydro-galactose was not detected during the pmp-derivatization method is that it was further degraded to 5-hydroxymethyl-furfural due to its instability .figure 6. profile of degradation position and mode of action of enzymes on marine carbohydrates.a degradation position of carrageenan oligosaccharides by enzymes secreted by 38f6 b. xylanisolvens and e. coli b degradation position of agarose ap by enzymes from b. uniformis l8 c degradation position of alginate by enzymes from b. ovatus g19.chemical structures of the intermediates produced by the degradation of alg mo and go byb.

compared to the standard spectrums of agaroligosaccharides and neoagaroligosaccharides the signals 92.8 ppm96.8 ppm and 98.3 ppm were respectively ascribed to the gr1a gr1b and anr1 residues which were exactly in accord with the typical anomeric carbon signals of neoagaroligosaccharides  figure and table .figure 4. analysis of the products of agarose ap degraded by b. uniformis l8 a tlc analysis of degradation of ap by b. uniformis l8 at 0 48 96 144 and 192 h b hplc chromatography of final products of ap degraded by b. uniformis l8 at 96 h 1. monosaccharide standard man mannose rha rhamnose gala galacturonic acid glc glucose gal galactose xyl xylose 2. final products of ap degraded by b. uniformis l8 at 96 h.table 2. positive-ion electrospray ionization mass spectrometry esi-ms analysis of the fragments generated from agarose ap degradation by b. uniformis l8 at 48 h.found ionscalculated molassignmentg 1-3-b-d-galactose a 1-4-36-anhydro-a-l-galactose  the found ion is h form  the found ion is na form.figure 5. nmr 13c spectrum of the oligosaccharides generated from agarose ap degradation byb.

thin-layer chromatography tlc results showed that the product of nk-dp4 is neocarrabiose figure  and of nk-dp6 are neocarrabiose and neocarratetraose figure  which further demonstrate that the enzyme secreted by 38f6 is b-carrageenase specifically cleaving b-14-glycoside figure 6a.figure 3. thin-layer chromatography tlc analysis of degradation of neocarratetraose nk-dp4 and neocarrahexaose nk-dp6 by 38f6 2 neocarrabiose nk-dp2 4 nk-dp4 6 nk-dp6 4j nk-dp4 fermentation by 38f6 6j nk-dp6 fermentation by 38f6.chemical structures of the intermediates produced by the degradation of ap by b. uniformis l8tlc patterns showed that the intermediates produced from the degradation of ap by b. uniformis l8 contained a range of fragments with different molecular weights after 48 h of incubation figure a. however the product generated after 96 h of incubation consisted of only a single spot figure a which was identified as d-galactose by hplc using the 1-phenyl-3-methyl-5-pyrazolone pmp-derivatization method figure b. the chemical structures of the intermediates at 48 h were determined using esi-ms analyses and nmr.

according to b. ovatus g19's degrading ability of alg mo and go the enzymes from b. ovatus g19 contain both a-14-guluronanlyase and b-14-mannuronanlyase resulting in unsaturated alginate oligosaccharides figure c. for mo and go because the original substrate was prepared using acid hydrolysis the saturated oligosaccharides are from the hexuronic acid residues at the non-reducing end.table 4. negative-ion electrospray ionization mass spectrometry esi-ms analysis of the fragments generated from alginate alg degradation by b. ovatus g19 at 144 h.experimental sectionn  b-d-mannuronic acid m or a-l-guluronic acid g.polysaccharide and oligosaccharide materialsap was obtained from qingdao judayang seaweed co. ltd. qingdao china.

we attempted to purify b. xylanisolvens from the complex isolate but the degrading ability of the single b. xylanisolvens is much weaker than that of the complex .

xylanisolvens and e. coliisolate 38f6 that degraded k-carrageenan oligosaccharides was identified as two kinds of bacterium b. xylanisolvens and e. coli.

the esi-ms results showed that the composition of the intermediates from ap degradation by b. uniformis l8 after 48 h mainly included disaccharides tetrasaccharides hexasaccharides and octasaccharides of agarose table .

mo and go could also be digested by b. ovatus g19 the products contained saturated and unsaturated disaccharides trisaccharides and tetrasccharide data not shown.

medium with k-carrageenan oligosaccharides nk-dp4 nk-dp6 and k-dp17 ap and alginate type alg go mo were autoclaved and inoculated with 38f6 b. uniforms l8 and bacteroides ovatus g19 separately then incubated at 37 c in an anaerobic chamber.

helium was used as the collision gas with a collision energy of 20-25 ev.because tlc analyses showed only one spot of ap after 96 h of incubation with b. uniforms l8 monosaccharide analysis was performed using pre-column derivation with pmp .

raoult d. henrissat b. the abundance and variety of carbohydrate-active enzymes in the human gut microbiota.

ph.d. thesis ocean university of china qingdao china 2014.yang b. preparation and sequence analysis of oligosaccharides and neoglycolipids probes from marine-derived sulfated galactan  construction of oligosaccharide-chips.

ph.d. thesis ocean university of china qingdao china 2009.ji m. seaweed chemistry science press beijing china 1997.yang b. yu g. zhao x. jiao g. ren s. chai w. mechanism of mild acid hydrolysis of galactan polysaccharides with highly ordered disaccharide repeats leading to a complete series of exclusively odd-numbered oligosaccharides.

1997 304 69-76. lei f. yin y. wang y. deng b. yu h.d.

li l. xiang c. wang s. zhu b. wang x. higher-level production of volatile fatty acids in vitro by chicken gut microbiotas than by human gut microbiotas as determined by functional analyses.

