medium and planktonic cells were then removed from wells using a vacuum and the remaining adherent biofilmswere rinsed once with pbs buph thermo scientific.sequence and structure.here we provide further support fortht an established fluorescent label for amyloid fibrilswas thenthe generality of the a-sheet hypothesis in amyloidogenesis by showing that the assembly of a bacterial amyloid is also inhibited by these same designed a-sheet peptides and that the main proteinaceous component of the s. aureus amyloid fibrils psma1 adopts a-sheet supporting our inhibitor design premise to provide a complementary a-sheet surface.

here we test this idea in s. aureus biofilm cultures and in vitro with pure synthetic phenol soluble modulin a1 psma1 one of the main proteinaceous components of s. aureus amyloids.we examined several a-sheet designs for their ability to inhibit psma1 fibrillogenesis in abiotic conditions as well as their performance in disrupting biofilm matrix stability in s. aureus.

correspondingly our designed anti-a-sheet peptides which are themselves a-sheet hairpins target the intermediate a-sheet structure of psma1 and inhibit amyloid fibril formation in vitro supporting a recent study showing that psma1 has a high aggregation propensity compared to the other a-psms.the conformational equilibria are complicated but we observed entry and exit from a-sheet occurring just prior to the onset of a steep increase in tht binding with mixed populations before and after with a-helix and b-sheet respectively.

a. next we utilized this assay to test the a-sheet inhibitor designs and control peptides described above sequences provided in supplementary table s1.to test whether the a-sheet designs inhibit s. aureus amyloid formation 80 mm of the designs and control peptides were added to the growth medium lb broth lennox prior to inoculation corresponding to a starting concentration of 1.51 pgcfu pico- gram per colony forming unit which dropped exponentially as the cultures were allowed to grow for 24 h at 37 degc.

a schematic of protocol for testing designed a-sheet peptides in s. aureus biofilm cultures with an illustration of the main-chain structure of the ap90 a-sheet design.

c.designed peptide inhibitors disrupt s. aureus biofilmsto further investigate the ability of designed peptides to inhibit psm amyloid formation fluorescent mcherry s. aureus mn8peptides prevent amyloid formation in s. aureusa bleem et al.3fig.

psma3 is one of the most toxic psms and small amounts of psma3 have been detected in 10 different community-acquired and hospital-acquired mrsa strains.however psma3 has not been detected in s. aureus fibrils while the existence of psma1 psma2 and psma4 has been well documented in s. aureus amyloid fibrils.the functional amyloid of s. aureus represents an interesting and complicated system with many components and opportu- nities for regulation and further research into the details of individual components as well as more holistic approaches are warranted.

thus a-sheet inhibitors could prove applicable to a wide variety of amyloido- genic proteins including functional amyloids produced by other bacterial species such as escherichia coli and pseudomonas aeruginosa.resultswe begin with a short description of the a-sheet designs employed here and their spectral properties given the importance of structure in their mechanism of action as well as what that suggests about the structure of amyloid species with which they interact.

with time however the a-helical content decreased as evidenced by the progressive loss of the helical signal through the first 100 h. as mentioned above a-sheet gives rise to a featureless cd spectrum and the psma1 spectrum at 130 h is very similar to those of the designed a-sheet peptides supplementary fig.

c in biolayer interferometry experiments the equilibrium dissociation constant kd indicates preferential binding between ap90 and a-sheet-rich psma1 48 h as opposed to a-helix-rich 0 h or b-sheet-rich states 150 h. note that 150 h is still in the sigmoidal region of the transition and some a-sheet is presentbetween designed a-sheet peptides and psma1 is structure- specific.

our goal is stable soluble a-sheet hairpin peptide designs a-strand--turn--a-strand to form a small a-sheet hairpin.

if a-sheet is indeed a common intermediate in amyloidogenesis then it should also be populated during the formation of psm amyloids in s. aureus.

the a-sheet peptide designs inhibit amyloid formation in both systems and ultimately compromise the integrity of the s. aureus biofilms.

designed a-sheet peptides inhibit amyloid formation in biofilm cultureswe employed two s. aureus strains--sh1000 wt a rsbu laboratory strainand mn8 a clinical strain isolated from the human urogenital tract supplementary table s2.

b a panel of designed a-sheet peptides ap90 ap401 and ap407 as well as random coil rc and b-hairpin controls b was tested against two s. aureus strains mn8 hashed bars and sh1000 wt white bars.

