notably only two of these strains ds68498 and ds68518 were shown to exhibit a mmc-mediated growth profile related to that observed for the positive control growth profile b while two other strains were shown to exhibit growth profile d described above.tem analysis of temperate lactococcal phagesin order to substantiate the notion that fcm can reliably detect phage particles induced from lysogenic strains in particular when no suitable sensitive host is available for such phages tem analysis was performed on mmc-mediated lysates of six strains which were selected based on their distinct mmc- mediated growth profile and fcm results ds601 ds69067 ds68498 ds66563 ds72158 and ds70248 .

lactis uc509.9 a prophage-free strain   wasshown to exhibit a gradual impact on growth when exposed to mmc with a more pronounced diminishment of growth at the higher mmc concentration possibly due to the toxic effect of mmc  this growth behavior is referred to as growth profile a. to try to correlate cell lysis with prophage induction growth profile comparisons between 113 tested lactococcal strains and control strains was performed and supplementary table s1.

no significant growth arrest was observed following mmc addition compared to growth in the absence of mmc and this was taken as an indication that no prophage induction had taken place this behavior is referred to as growth profile c. finally the remaining 14.16 of the tested lactococcalstrains exhibited a more severe growth arrest and substantial cell lysis in the presence of 1.3 ug.ml-1 mmc compared to that observed for the same culture following exposure to3 ug.ml-1 mmc and referred here as growth profile d. the substantial drop in bacterial growth observed following addition of 1.3 ug.ml-1 of mmc and less so at the higher concentration of mmc may be due to phage induction and consequent cell lysis rather than mmc toxicity as one may expect this to cause similar or incremental growth cessation profiles.characterization of induced temperate phagesin order to validate the identification of putative lysogens among the 113 tested strains chemical induction was performed on a larger scale 50 ml and addition of 3 ug.ml-1 mmc see materials and methods.

interestingly in addition to the two growth profiles a and b as identified above two additional and distinct mmc-mediated growth profiles were observed.detailed assessment of the growth profiles obtained from this lactococcal strain collection showed that the growth behavior of 33.63 of the lactococcal strains screened was reminiscent of growth profile b as observed for the positive control nz9000- tp901-1erm similar profiles were observed in  suggesting that these strains may harbor one or more inducible prophages.

in the current study we report on the use of fcm as a reliable detection and enumeration method for phage particles that are released from lysogenic l. lactis strains following mmc treatment.materials and methodsbacterial growth and prophage induction conditionslactococcus lactis strains l. lactis strain details are described in and supplementary table s1 were grown at 30c in m17 broth oxoid supplemented with 0.5 glucose gm17 and prophages were chemically induced using 1.3 or 3 ug.ml-1 of mmc sigma.

the results of this phage-host survey are summarized in supplementary table s2 with the identification of mmc-inducible phages from fifteen l. lactis strains capable of infecting either l. lactis smq-86 or l. lactis 3107. interestingly a third of these strains were shown to exhibit a growth profile that was similar to that of the negative control uc509.9 following mmc exposure i.e.

as mentioned above despite the identification of a sensitive host for the phages released by these seven lysogenic strains only some of these strains were shown to exhibit mmc- mediated growth profile similar to that of tp901-1 l. lactis strains ds63633 and ds70282 and supplementary table s1.

interestingly despite their apparent inability to release phage particles it was observed that two of these six strains exhibit ammc-mediated growth profile similar to that observed for the uc509.9 growth profile a negative for phage particles release  and another two exhibited a growth profile c above described.the lysates of the remaining five strains i.e.

growth profiles were obtained and compared with growth profiles from two lactococcal strains used as a negative or positive control l. lactis uc509.9 which is free of inducible prophages   and l. lactis nz9000- tp901-1erm which contains an inducible prophage    respectively.

fcm analysis was performed using a selection of eighteen lactococcal strains seven strains which upon mmc treatment produce lysates containing phages for which a suitable host had been identified  and supplementary table s2 and eleven strains which represent each of the four previoulsy described mmc-mediated growth profiles see above supplementary table s1 and for which we could not detect phages in the resulting lysate as based on a plaque assay  and  .

l. lactis strains harboring prophages ds64982 ds71865 ds70282 and ds63625  this difference may be explained by the possibility that not all phage particles present are infectious confirmed by detection of disintegrated particles and empty capsids by tem data not shown or that the host encodes a phage-resistance system that reduces the efficacy of plaquing.discussionthe current study assessed if fcm is a suitable method to detect virus particles induced from lysogenic l. lactis strains.

lactis strains testedfeaturesflow cytometry analysis  of fluorescence associated with gate 3table 3  phage particles detection in inducible l. lactis lysates and correlation between flow cytometry and mmc growth profiles.l.

following addition of 1.3 or 3 ug.ml-1 of mmc the observed growth profiles for the positive control revealed a drastic growth reduction of the strain when exposed to mmc as compared to untreated control with an equal impact observed for either of the two mmc concentrations  this growth behavior is referred to as growth profile b. in contrast the negative controll.

incubation was continued at 30cand bacterial growth was followed for 8 h. a final od600 nm reading was obtained 24 h after the lactococcal strains were inoculated in the 96-well microplate and growth profiles were then generated.

interestingly 15.93 of l. lactis strains tested in this study displayed similar growth profiles to the corresponding untreated strain  i.e.

