in the animal industry antibiotics have been used not only for the treatment and prevention of infectious diseases but also for the promotion of growth in livestock animals frequent use of antibiotics in medical care and the animal industry may lead to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria mutation of antibiotic target genes or acquisition of antibiotic resistance genes that cause inactivation of antibiotics modification of the antibiotic targets or efflux of antibiotics allows bacteria to resist antibiotics 7 8. furthermore obtained antibiotic resistance genes can be transferred to other bacteria this may lead to the emergence of novel antibiotic-resistant bacteria.

cc-by-nc-nd 4.0 density such as in soil sludge and the large intestine it has been mentioned that the intestinal microbial ecosystem has the potential to preserve antibiotic resistance genes 7 1. indeed some antibiotic resistance genes were detected in human feces by metagenomic and microarray analysis 6 13. it was reported that metagenomic analysis detected 1093 antibiotic resistance genes among 162 individuals from three different countries and that ermb blatem and sul2 which are resistance genes against macrolides b-lactams and sulfonamides respectively were commonly detected by microarray analysis in saliva and feces collected from five european countries.polymerase chain reaction pcr using specific primers is an alternative method for detecting antibiotic resistance genes in intestinal bacteria.

in other words the detection of target antibiotic resistance genes in this study showed that bacteria that have the target resistance gene might be present in more than 105 cellsg of feces.the number of antibiotic resistance genes detected in a subject ranged 7 to 17. on average 11 antibiotic resistance genes were detected in a subject.

these antibiotic resistance genes are likely widespread in the large intestinal bacteria of young adult japanese.key words antibiotic resistance gene macrolide tetracycline human fecesnumerous bacteria that construct a complex microbial ecosystem with competition and symbiosis are present in the human large intestine 1 2. these intestinal bacteria immunologically and metabolically influence host health.

this method enables us to easily determine the presence of antibiotic resistance genes in individuals and the distribution of antibiotic resistance genes among a community.

in this study feces collected from healthy young adult japanese were analyzed for the presence of antibiotic resistance genes by pcr targeting previously known antibiotic resistance genes.a total of 32 fecal samples from healthy female volunteers between 21 and 22 years old were analyzed.

antibiotic resistance genesagainst tetracyclines tetw tetq teto tetm tets tetbptable 1. detection of antibiotic resistance genes with specific pcr in the feces of japanese individualstett tetl tetk and tetx macrolides erma ermb ermc ermf ermt ermx erea ereb mpha mefae and msrabantibioticresistance genenumber of positive subjects chloramphenicol cat b-lactam antibiotics blashv blactx-m blatem and blaoxa fluoroquinolones qnra qnrb qnrs qnrd qepa oqxa oqxb and aac6'-ib-cr ampicillin ampc methicillin meca streptomycin aada and aade sulfonamide suli and sulii and vancomycin vana vanb and vanc1 were amplified with pcr using specific primers the pcr conditions were as follows 10 ul of gotaq green master mix promega madison wi usa 400 umoll of each primer and 25 ng of extracted bacterial dna in a total volume of 20 ul.

the detection of each antibiotic resistance gene was performed three times.in this study due to the sensitivity of pcr analysis the number of antibiotic-resistant bacteria for which the target antibiotic resistance gene was not detected by specific pcr may be 105 cellsg of feces.

in human fecal bacterial genomes antibiotic resistance genes against macrolides tetracyclines b-lactams fluoroquinolones vancomycin and sulfonamides were commonly detected with the metagenomic and microarray analysis 6 25. in particular antibiotic resistance genes against macrolides ermb and ermf and against tetracyclines tetq and tetw were most commonly detected in fecal bacterial genomes.

furthermore the high detection rate of aade 81.3 that encodes adenylyltransferase to resist streptomycin and blatem 62.5 that encodes b-lactamase which inactivatesantibiotic resistance genes in human feces153b-lactam antibiotics indicated that these antibiotic genes could be moderately spread among the intestinal bacteria in young adult japanese.the distribution of antibiotic resistance genes in the human microbiome differs among various countries 7 12. the results in this study agreed with previous reports in which ermb ermf teto tetq and tetw were frequently detected in the fecal microbiome of japanese notably ermx mefae tetx blatem and aade were also detected with high frequency in this study.

poult sci 84 634-643. smith dl harris ad johnson ja silbergeld ek morris jg jr. 2002. animal antibiotic use has an early but important impact on the emergence of antibiotic resistance in human commensal bacteria.

36 4 151-154 2017detection of antibiotic resistance genes in the feces of young adult japaneseyuji ohashi1 and tomohiko fujisawa11laboratory of food hygiene department of food science and technology nippon veterinary and life science university 1-7-1 kyonan-cho musashino tokyo 180-8602 japanreceived february 7 2017 accepted july 14 2017 published online in j-stage august 3 2017antibiotic resistance genes in the feces of healthy young adult japanese were analyzed with polymerase chain reaction using specific primers.

antibiotic resistance genes against macrolides ermb ermf ermx and mefae tetracyclines tetw tetq teto and tetx b-lactam antibiotics blatem and streptomycin aade were detected in more than 50 of subjects.

thus the spread of antibiotic resistance genes and the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in particular antibiotic-resistant pathogens have created serious problems for human beings.

the transfer of antibiotic resistance genes likely occurs readily among bacteria in an environment in which large amounts of bacteria are present with a highcorresponding author.

