j pediatr gastroenterol nutr 2016 43584-591.backhed f roswall j peng y feng q jia h kovatcheva-datchary p li y xia y xie h zhong h khan mt zhang j li j xiao l al- aama j zhang d lee ys kotowska d cold- ing c tremaroli v yin y bergman s xu x madsen l kristiansen k dahlgren j wang j dynamics and stabilization of the human gut microbiome during the first year of life.

the nutri- tion and health status of the mother before during and after birth may be major factors in the early colonization of the infant.c 2017 s. karger ag baselintroductionknowledge of the bacteria in the human gut has in- creased substantially since the microbiome the collective genome of the gut microbiota has been elucidated and elaborated in different populations 1 2. there have been several studies implicating the gut microbiota in in- flammatory bowel disease 3 irritable bowel syndrome 4 obesity 5 allergy 6 autoimmune disease and many other potential conditions including brain disor- ders 7. the number and types of bacteria in the gut are important but their metabolic activity is also key to their impact in the body.

these differences were still evident 4 weeks after the start of weaning 10 and may persist longer as geographical differences are reported in several studies 1 2. host genetics may be a key factor in early coloniza- tion but while some studies have shown greater similarity in the microbiota of identical twins 14 than fraternal twins and siblings others have not 15.transfer from mother before and during birthduring birth the infant should be exposed to the moth- er's vaginal bacteria and the microbiota from the feces of the mother.

however there is increasing evidence that bacteria can be present in placenta cord blood and amniotic fluid 16 17. the presence of bacteria in utero may also occur via vaginal transfer and contamination ei- ther during sample collection or during analysis must be ruled out 18. if this placental transfer is established then its importance in overall gut bacterial colonization and the factors controlling the process need to be explored.transfer from mother during breast feedingit is well established that breastfed infants have more bifidobacteria in their microbiota than formula-fed in- fants and this may be due to a variety of factors in human milk including oligosaccharides lactoferrin and low iron levels.

thus early events in the first year of life may programme the microbiome and its activities into adulthood and if so have major influence on metabolism and disease risk.factors affecting early colonizationthere have been many studies that have considered early colonization of the infant gut 10-12. as tech- niques have improved and gene sequencing has made more detailed analysis of the microbiota and microbiome possible the factors that influence colonization have be- come more clearly established.

21 found a distinct pattern of coloniza- tion in infants at 4 months of age between those whose mothers cleaned the pacifier by sucking and those that did not.impact of weaning dietthere is considerable impact of the post-weaning in- fant diet on the microbiota of the infant with diversity increasing as the child is weaned 10. development of fermentation capacity for a range on non-digestible car- bohydrates increases during weaning with polysaccha- ride fermentation developing more slowly than for oligo- saccharides 22 23. some bacterial enzymes and prod- ucts such as b-glucuronidase and butyrate do not increase substantially until later in the first year of life and cessa- tion of breastfeeding rather than introduction of solids has been reported to be a major influence on develop- ment of the adult style microbiota 24. thus diet during this period may influence maturation of the microbiota.

j med microbiol 2005 54pt 121239-1242.yatsunenko t rey fe manary mj trehan i dominguez-bello mg contreras m magris m hidalgo g baldassano rn anokhin ap heath ac warner b reeder j kuczynski j caporaso jg lozupone ca lauber c clem- ente jc knights d knight r gordon ji hu- man gut microbiome viewed across age and geography.

in addition the microbiome of the placenta amniotic fluid and breast milk alongside vaginal and fecal bacteria may aid the trans- fer of maternal bacteria to the infant.

despite evidence suggest- ing that a gut microbiome with lower numbers of bifi- dobacteria in infancy is related to later obesity 5 28 children with hyperphagic disorders 29 including prader-willi syndrome who developed obesity had more similar gut bacterial activity to normal obese chil- dren than those with the same condition but who had not become obese indicating that the bacterial differ- ences may have been caused by the obesity and not vice versa.conclusionthe gut microbiome has been related to a range of dif- ferent acute and chronic diseases which stimulates con- sideration of strategies to modifyoptimize the bacterial profile and activities.

similar metabolic activities may be provided by different groups of bacteria and the exact species responsible for a particular function may not be as important as the metabolic capability of the consor- tium.

j trauma acute care surg 201681 756-764.fallani m amarri s uusijarvi a adam r khanna s aguilera m gil a vieites jm norin e young d scott ja dore j edwards ca infabio team determinants of the hu- man infant intestinal microbiota after the in- troduction of first complementary foods in infant samples from five european centres.

am j clin nutr 199765927-933.scheiwiller j arrigoni e brouns f amado r human faecal microbiota develops the ability to degrade type 3 resistant starch during weaning.

review articleann nutr metab 201770246-250 doi 10.1159000466711determinants and duration of impact of early gut bacterial colonizationchristine ann edwardshuman nutrition school of medicine dentistry and nursing college of medical veterinary and life sciences university of glasgow glasgow ukreceived february 14 2017accepted february 24 2017published online march 18 2017keywordsinfant colonization  bacteria  microbiota  gutabstractbackground an increasing number of studies show low di- versity of the gut microbiome in those with chronic diseases such as obesity inflammatory bowel disease and allergy.

understanding the fixed and modifiable factors that determine which bacteria are present and the resul- tant metabolic profile is the key to determining the role of the bacteria in promoting health or causing disease and should indicate possible interventions and treat- ments for combating a range of conditions.the gut microbiota is thought to be quite stable in adulthood 8 although more studies are needed to really establish this.

manipulation of the microbiota may promote health.

