The objectives of this study were the followings 1 to investigate the prevalence of the cfiA gene the bft gene and their isotypes in recently collected B. fragilis isolates 2 to compare these data with previous findings 3 in a subset of 72 strains to look for the prevalence of C10 bfp1-4 and C11 peptidase fpn 4 to compare the prevalence data of cfiA bft bfp1-4 and fpn genes.Material and methodsStrains involved in this studyIn a multicentre study involving five Hungarian microbiological laboratories 200 B. fragilis isolates originating from clinically relevant extraintestinal samples were collected between January and June 2016.

The objective of this study was to investigate the prevalence and distribution of the bft isotypes in 200 Hungarian B. fragilis isolates collected recently and in a subset of 72 strains we wanted to determine the prevalence of bfp1-4 and fpn genes in bft-positive and bft-negative strains.

To investigate the presence of bfp1-4 the C10 protease gene and fpn the C11 protease gene a subset of 72 B. fragilis isolates 26 ETBF strains and 46 non-ETBF strains was analysed via RT-PCR.

These new findings were slightly unexpected andThe asymptomatical carrying rate of ETBF strains in the gut has been shown to be between 6.2 and 20.0 e while the prevalence of ETBF isolates among extraintestinal B. fragilis strains lies between 9.0 and 38.2 .

Twenty six 13.0 B. fragilis isolates turned out to be bft gene positive by RT-PCR 20 isolates harboured bft-1 and six bft-2 isotypes but no bft-3 isotype containing strains were found.

During the RFLP analysis the following positive controls were used B. fragilis R19811 bft-1 B. fragilis ATCC 43858 bft-2 and B. fragilis GAI 96462 bft-3.

The significance of these findings in the pathogenesis of B. fragilis requires further investigation.Recently it has been demonstrated that B. fragilis strains produce a special protease called fragipain Fpn which is a member of the C11 family belonging to the CD clan of cysteine peptidase.

The prevalence of ETBF strains among B. fragilis isolates from extraintestinal clinical samples has also been shown to lie between 9.0 and 20.3 .

Using a typing scheme described earlier all the isolates were placed into two categories namely Division II exclusively positive for the cfiA carbapenemase gene and Division I using the MALDI-TOF Biotyper 3.1 software con- taining cfiA identification project file made at Bruker Daltonik Bremen Germany .PCR detection of cfiA bft bfp1-4 and fpn genesThe presence of the cfiA gene in B. fragilis strains belonging to Division II was confirmed by RT-PCR as described by Eitel et al.

The separation of bft-1 and bft-2 strains via obtained from by the melting-cure analysis was confirmed by sequencing of three bft-1 and three bft-2 positive B. fragilis isolates which were randomly selected during the experiments.

