Early detection of rectal carriers is important for the purpose of controlling infec- tions .As gastrointestinal carriage may serve as a reservoir for CPE andor ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae ESBL-E trans- mission the objective of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence of intestinal colonization coinciding with infection episodes in our hospital and in other SpanishReceived 21 September 2016 Accepted 26 November 2016Author affiliation Microbiology Department Hospital Clinico San Carlos cMartin Lagos sn Madrid 28040 Spain.Correspondence Esther Rios Keywords faecal carriage carbapenemases ESBL Enterobacteriaceae ST705 OXA-48.Abbreviations CPE carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae ESBL extended-spectrum b-lactamase ESBL-E ESBL MLST multilocus sequence typing ST sequence type.000399 a 2017 The Authors byhospitals .

Bacterial species and carbapenemases identified among CPE carriersDISCUSSIONScreening for intestinal carriage is important for predicting the risk of infection  as the gut may serve as a reservoir for CPE or ESBL-E. Tan and Tan  demonstrated high rates of infections such as urinary tract infection due to ESBL-E in patients who are also intestinal carriers of these pathogens.The present study showed a 10.2  prevalence of intestinal colonization with Enterobacteriaceae harbouring ESBLs or carbapenemases in non-selected hospitalized and nonhospitalized patients from the same geographic area of Madrid.Overall ESBL-E isolates were detected in 8.6  of the patients.

Three carbapenemase genes were detected among CPE blaVIM-1 blaKPC-2 and blaOXA-48.Because E. coli and K. pneumoniae species predominated among the faecal carriage of ESBL and CP respectively we studied their genetic backgrounds.

Among the 501 patients 22 4.4  male and 21 4.2 female carried ESBL-E while 4 0.8  male and 4 0.8  female carried CPE.All gut carriers of CPE were hospitalized patients while the ESBL-E carriage rate among outpatients was lower 6.25  than among inpatients 12.7 .All ESBL-E isolates were detected by the initial screening MacConkey agar plate with four antibiotic discs.

Identification of bacterial species and distribution of enzymes among ESBL-E carriersspecies were found among the 43 faecal carriage of ESBL E. coli being the most common species 67.4  .

Although the prevalence of faecal carriage of ESBL-E among outpatients 6.25  was lower than that among hospitalized patients 12.7  several authors have indicated that it is important to look at community patients because they can represent a clear reservoir for ESBL pro-ducers increasing the dispersal of resistance in healthy peo- ple .ESBL enzymes are frequently encoded by genes located on different transferable genetic elements which could make their spread through various enterobacteria possible .

Our results are in accordance with other authors who have observed the rapid emergence of the ST131 clone among patients colonized with faecal E. coli isolates .

Half of our patients carrying carbapenemases were colonized by K. pneumoniae a fre- quent species identified among faecal CPE .

Curr Opin Infect Dis 201023320-326.Pena I Picazo JJ Rodriguez-Avial C Rodriguez-Avial I. Carbape- nemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae in a tertiary hospital in Madrid Spain high percentage of colistin resistance among VIM- 1-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae ST11 isolates.

Asymptomatic rectal carriage of blaKPC producing carbapenem- resistant Enterobacteriaceae who is prone to become clinically infected Clin Microbiol Infect 201319451-456.Valverde A Grill F Coque TM Pintado V Baquero F et al.

