while the beneficial impact of supplementation with dietary macs on gut microbiota host metabolism and immunity has been reported before the present review will focus on the deleterious impact of low-mac consumption on gut homeostasis immunity and disease development as illustrated in .impact of low macs on gut microbiotadiet composition particularly the availability of macs has a major impact on gut microbiota.low dietary macs promote mucus- degrading bacteriadepending on their enzymatic machinery gut bacteria can either extract carbon from dietary macs or endogenous mucus as source of energy .

this low mac-induced gut permeability was associated with increased susceptibility to the epithelium-targeting pathogen citrobacter rodentium sug- gesting that dietary macs are key in fighting gastrointestinal infections .low dietary macs modify epithelium cytokine expressionwhile macs have the ability to affect the bacterial-epithelium interaction they can also affect the epithelial-immune interaction  .

while most studies focus on scfas as critical in promoting beneficial effects of macs in diseases it is important to note that beneficial changes in the microbiota by itself is also critical as treatment with scfas in drinking water only partially recapitulates the effects of macs  .table 1  microbiota changes in mice fed on low dietary microbiota-accessible carbohydrates macs.studiesmice studied method used for gutanalysislow-mac dietcomparator dietchanges observed in low-mac diet groupdecreaseincreasedesai et al.

the most consistent changes observed in a low-mac diet compared to a high-mac diet are an increase in proteobacteria and a decrease in bacteroidetes as well as a decline in bacterial diversity.low dietary macs lead to decreased bacterial diversity with irreversible loss of bacterial strainsa recent breakthrough has been made in the impact of low dietary macs on gut microbiota .

this suggests that dysbiotic microbiota due to low macs can exacerbate non-communicable disease development.impact of low dietary macs on gutepitheliumthe gut epithelium is a dynamic barrier ensuring the physical separation between the host and the gut microbiota while also enabling their communication .

deficiency in dietary macs may therefore alter b cell response and predispose to bacterial infection burden.neutrophilsdietary macs were first linked to leukocyte migration by identification of scfa receptor gpr43 as a neutrophil chemoat- tractant  .

starch and maldodextrin replaced with glucose harlan td.140343carbohydrates from sucrose 31 corn starch 31 and cellulose 5 harlan td.86489high macs 4.2 crude fiber 14.6 nd fiber 5.3 ad fiber labdiet 5010high-mac labdiet 5010fiber-degrading species bacteroides ovatus eubacterium rectalediversity shannon index bacteroidales sp.mucin specialists akkermansia muciniphila barnesiella intestinihomnis and mucin generalists bacteroides thetaiotaomicron bacteroides caccaeclostridialesmacia et al.

fiber starch anddextrinized starch replaced by dextrose sf09-028 devoid of fiber or starchhigh macs modification of ain-93g enriched in guar gum 20 and cellulose20 sf11-029prevotellaceae familybacteroidaceaeoscillibacter sp.thorburn et al.

c57bl6miceillumina sequencing of 16s rrna genes v3-v4 regionmodification of ain-93g devoid of fiber or starch sf09-028high macs sf11-029 proteobacteriadeltaproteobacteria and desulfovibrionalesfirmicutes bacilli lactobacillaleskim et al.

c57bl6miceqpcr analysis of 16s rrna gene sequences0 fiberhigh macs 15 of pectin and inulin 11bacteroidetes phylumproteobacteria phylumtrompette et al.

macs are a main source of energy for gut bacteria so the abundance and variety of macs can modulate gut microbial composition and function.

extensive research still needs to be done to determine 1 what types of macs are most efficient at diversifying the microbiota and promoting production of scfas and 2 how much macs should be consumed to optimize maintenance of health or to treat different types of inflammatory diseases.author contributionsthe review was cowritten by cd gp jt and lm.referencesaberg n hesselmar b aberg b eriksson b. increase of asthma allergic rhinitis and eczema in swedish schoolchildren between 1979 and 1991. clin exp allergy 1995 25815-9. doposer s stickel b krtsch u burckhardt d nordman b. increasing incidence of multiple sclerosis in south lower saxony germany.

8548. doi dietary fibers are non-digestible polysaccharides functionally known as microbiota-ac- cessible carbohydrates macs present in inadequate amounts in the western diet.

the immune effects of scfas are further detailed in section impact of low dietary macs on immune cells and disease development.

akkermansia muciniphila or from both the mucus and dietary macs the mucin-degrading generalists i.e.

