2011 101448-1454. pubmed 21890817lohse et al.page 24figure 1. formation of candida albicans biofilmsa  the formation of candida albicans biofilms has been divided into four major stages adherence of round yeast-form cells to a surface initiation of biofilm formation during which the cells adhered to the surface form a basal layer that contains yeast-form pseudohyphal and hyphal cells also known as the proliferation stage maturation into a complex structured biofilm in which cells are encased in the extracellular matrix and dispersion of yeast-form cells from the biofilm to seed new sites.

albicans biofilm formationthe current understanding of c. albicans biofilm development is based on in vitro experiments in vivo animal models of infection and examination of biofilms that formed on medical devices in the clinic box 1. on the basis of those observations c. albicans biofilm development has been divided into four stages adherence initiation also referred to as proliferation maturation and dispersion1727-31 fig.

the hyphae that form in the later stages of c. albicans biofilm development form a scaffold that supports the different components of the biofilm thereby contributing to the overall architectural stability of the biofilm structure.

some of the target genes in the biofilm network themselves encode transcriptional regulators several of which were subsequently shown to also be required for biofilm formation for example grf10 and sfp1 table 1. other regulatory targets are required for specific processes in biofilm formation such as hyphal growth for example hwp1 the production of the extracellular matrix for example gsc1and mnn1 and drug resistance for example cdr1 and mdr1.

it may seem counterintuitive that so many other transcriptional regulators are also required for the initial adherence step in biofilm formation however this observation indicates how little we currently understand about this step in biofilm formation.production of the extracellular matrixa mature c. albicans biofilm is encased in an extracellular matrix that is a mixture of glycoproteins 55 carbohydrates 25 largely a-mannan and b-16-glucan polysaccharides and to a lesser extent b-13-glucan lipids 15 and nucleic acids 570. more than 500 proteins have been identified by mass spectrometry in the matrix and many of them are enzymes70.

in agreement with this notion one study has shown that edna is present at all stages of biofilm development and that treatment with dnase decreases biofilm biomass at later time points in biofilm formation71.two transcriptional regulators rlm1 and zap1 also known as csr1 have been implicated in matrix production.

critically ill patients are often unable to tolerate these procedures leaving few if any available treatment options in these cases1926.in this review we provide an overview of the processes involved in the formation of a c. albicans biofilm and discuss the transcriptional circuitry that regulates biofilm development.

1. in vitro results suggest that biofilm formation begins with the adherence of yeast-form cells to a solid surface and the formation of a basal layer that functions to anchor the biofilm.

the biofilm matrix functions as a protective physical barrier from the environment and provides structural integrity to the biofilm and it is critical in the resistance of mature biofilms to mechanical disruption.

although the general progression of biofilm developmentand the properties of the mature structure have been studied primarily in vitro many of the same features for example a several-hundred- micrometre-thick biofilm consisting of yeast- form cells at the base hyphal and pseudohyphal cells throughout the structure and a thick extracellular matrix have also been observed in vivo in rabbit mouse and rat catheter models in vivo in rat denture models and in vivo and ex vivo in mouse vaginal models.

c. albicans biofilms have also been extensively observed in clinical settings for example on catheters and dentures of patients33-42.lohse et al.page 4regulation of biofilm developmentin light of the large number of differences between biofilm cells and planktonic cells it is not surprising that more than 50 transcriptional regulators have been linked to the formation of c. albicans biofilms143-45 fig.

2 table 1. cells in which those genes have been deleted exhibit a range of phenotypes with regard to biofilms including moderately reduced thickness of the mature biofilm for example an ndt80 deletion mutant extremely thin biofilms for example an efg1 deletion mutant abnormally thick biofilms for example an rfx2 deletion mutant lack of hyphal cells within the biofilm structure for example a bcr1 deletion mutant and reduced adherence to the solid substrate for example an rfg1 deletion mutant4647.

in the following sections we discuss recent updates to this regulatory circuit that are crucial for the individual steps of c. albicans biofilm formation.adherencealthough we lack detailed understanding of how c. albicans cells adhere to surfaces current evidence indicates that the nature of the surface molecules involved in quorum sensing host hormones and the presence of other interacting microorganisms can influence this initial step of biofilm formation52-59.

the specific genes involved in adherence both in the early stages of biofilm formation and in the later maturation phases thus have important roles in biofilm formation and maintenance.

finally although the core biofilm regulator bcr1 is not required for hyphal formation per se it is required for hyphae to adhere to one another48 a critical property for maintaining the strength of the biofilm.

