similar re- sults were obtained by histomorphometric analysis of bone sec- tions e. oral bacteria transferred from diabetic donors induced twice as many osteoclasts as bacteria from diabetic do- nors treated with il-17 antibody p  0.05 e. the num- ber of neutrophils mpo immunopositive cells recruited in response to bacteria from diabetic mice treated with control antibody was twice that of bacteria from il-17 antibody-treated diabetic mice p  0.05 f. likewise oral bacteria from diabetic mice induced a 2-fold increase in the infiltration of il-6 immunopositive cells in germ-free recipients compared to bac- teria from diabetic mice treated with the il-17 antibody p  0.05 g. rankl-positive cells showed results similar to il-6 and demonstrated that il-17 antibody had a significant ef- fect on bacteria capable of inducing this osteoclastogenic cyto- kine h.discussiondiabetes mellitus causes serious complications that are linked to a chronic inflammatory environment .

to investigate this important issue we examined a mouse model and the impact of diabetes on the oral microbial composition and its pathogenicity.resultsdiabetes causes a shift in the oral microbiome with increased inflammation and bone lossto characterize the oral microbiome in diabetic mice we carried out 16s rrna gene tag sequencing in mice that were120 cell host  microbe 22 120-128 july 12 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc.cdefghijklfigure 1. diabetes alters the composition of the oral microbiome and increases periodontal inflammation and bone lossdbdb type 2 diabetes-prone and lean normoglycemic control littermates db were examined.alpha diversity was assessed in the microbiota of 9 normoglycemic and 10 diabetes-prone mice before hyperglycemia and 8 normoglycemic and 9 diabetic mice after the latter developed hyperglycemia.beta unweighted unifrac diversity was assessed in 9 normoglycemic and 10 diabetes-prone mice before and 8 normoglycemic and 9 diabetic mice after the development of hyperglycemia.prominent bacterial taxa in 9 normoglycemic and 10 diabetes-prone mice before and 8 normoglycemic and 9 diabetic mice after the development of hyperglycemia.micro-ct 3d reconstructions and sagittal slice views of normoglycemic and diabetic mice.

the development of hyperglycemia led to a significant difference in the oral microbiota in normoglycemic and diabetic mice deter- mined by alpha diversity the number of taxonomic units in the normoglycemic group was higher than the number in the diabetic group reflecting less bacterial diversity in the diabetic animals a p  0.05. similar results were obtained with the shan- non index a p  0.05. the diabetic and normoglycemic groups were also distinguished by beta diversity b. prior to hyperglycemia the diabetes-prone group clustered simi- larly to the normoglycemic.

like diabetic humans diabetic mice had naturally occurring spontaneous periodontal bone loss d. quan- titative analysis of the microct results demonstrated that the diabetic mice had less than half the amount of bone presentcompared to the normoglycemic controls p  0.05 e. histologic analysis of tissue sections gave similar results with 57 less interdental bone in the diabetic mice compared to nor- moglycemic mice p  0.05 figure s1a.periodontal bone loss typically reflects the degree of inflam- mation present.

short articlediabetes enhances il-17 expression and alters the oral microbiome to increase its pathogenicitygraphical abstracthighlightsd diabetes increases periodontal bone resorption and tooth loss in miced diabetic mice have increased periodontal inflammation and il-17 levelsd diabetic oral microbiota induces periodontitis in wild-type germ-free recipientsd blocking il-17 reduces the pathogenic effect of diabetic oral microbiotaauthorse xiao marcelo mattosgustavo henrique apolina' rio vieira ... mayra laino albiero kyle bittinger dana t. gravescorrespondencein brief diabetes increases periodontal disease a major cause of tooth loss.

thus the development of hyperglycemia in diabetic mice had a clear effect on the oral microbial composition.analysis of prevalent bacterial taxa revealed genus- and family-level differences between bacterial communities from normoglycemic and hyperglycemic mice c. specif- ically after the onset of hyperglycemia the diabetic oral cavity had increased levels of enterobacteriaceae aerococcus enterococcus and staphylococcus which are often associated with periodontitis or are considered to be associated with impaired healing in diabetic animals   table s1.a characteristic feature of periodontitis is loss of bone around the teeth.

in the diabetic periodontium there was a 2-fold increase in cells expressing il-6 and rankl k 1l s1c and s1d.the diabetic microenvironment increases the pathogenicity of the oral microbiomeresults above indicate that the transition to hyperglycemia in diabetic mice induces a change in periodontal status peri- odontal inflammation and the microbial composition.

germ-free mice were chosen as recipients to reduce the in- fluence of the commensal bacteria.transfer of bacteria from diabetic mice to germ-free recipi- ents induced a larger amount of bone loss than transfer from normoglycemic donors a. as shown by micro-ct anal- ysis there was 42 less bone in mice that received bacteria from the diabetic group compared to bacteria from the normo- glycemic group b p  0.05. as shown by histologic analysis the recipients of bacteria from the diabetic group had 57 less bone than recipients of bacteria from normoglycemic controls data not shown.

indicates significantly different from recipients that received bacteria from diabetic mice p  0.05.ffigure 3. local injection of il-17 antibody reduces microbial pathogenicity induced by diabetesa and b the oral bacterial composition from normoglycemic ng diabetic db and diabetic il-17a antibody-treated mice ab was examined.

bacteria from the normal group also had some pathogenic potential as it induced bone loss compared to germ-free mice without bacterial transfer p  0.05 c although significantly less than bacteria frompercent periodontal bone remaining in normoglycemic and diabetic mice measured by micro-ct. a minimum of six maxillary samples from different mice were examined per group with the analysis performed three times with similar results.trap-stained histologic sections of periodontal tissue from diabetic and normoglycemic mice.

original magnification of fluorescent images 4003.  indicates statistical difference p  0.05 between diabetic and matched normoglycemic mice.cdefghfigure 2. diabetes increases the pathogenicity of bacteria transferred to normal germ-free micebacteria were collected by swabbing the teeth and adjacent periodontal tissue of 5 diabetic dbdb mice or 5 normoglycemic controls db.

thus bacteria from diabetic mice stimulated the most bone loss.transfer of bacteria from diabetic mice to germ-free recipients induced 3-fold more osteoclasts than bacteria from normoglyce- mic mice p  0.05 d consistent with bone measure- ments.

the num- ber of neutrophils was higher in the periodontium of germ-free mice exposed to bacteria from diabetic mice compared to nor- moglycemic animals e. bacteria from diabetic mice increased mpo-positive neutrophils 2-fold compared to bacteria from normoglycemic controls which was significantly higher than germ-free mice not exposed to any bacteria e and s2a.

at the mrna level there was a significantly greater 2- to 4-fold greater induction of il-17 mpo and il-6 in the gingiva of recipients inoculated with bacteria from diabetic mice compared to bacteria from normoglycemic animals or germ-free mice that did not receive bacteria h. further- more these results were not simply due to higher bacterial loads in the diabetic mice as the amount of bacteria obtained from both groups was similar figure s3a.

these findings indicate that the diabetic oral micro- biome is considerably more pathogenic than the normal oral microbiome.il-17 inhibition reduces the pathogenicity of the oral microbiome in diabetic miceto test whether diabetes-enhanced inflammation increased the pathogenicity of the oral microbiota we applied by local injection into the gingiva anti-il-17 antibody or matched control antibody and transferred bacteria to germ-free recipients after placing a ligature between the first and second molar.

