a recent pangenomic study showed that lr 6475 strain is distinctive among gut microbes by containing a complete chromosomal hdcganesh et al.page 3gene cluster genes hdca hdcb hdcp and the genetic capacity to convert histidine to histamine 19. lr-derived histamine suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines in intestinal epithelial cells monocytes 1720 and intestinal inflammation in different rodent models 2122. however the molecular mechanisms behind the interactions of lr-derived histamine and the mammalian intestinal epithelium are not clearly understood.histamine interacts with the host using four different mammalian receptors histamine receptor 1 h1r h2r h3r and h4r 23. the majority of histamine receptors in the gut are known to be h1r and h2r 2425. h1r is known to initiate pro-inflammatory pathways by increasing phosphorylation of protein kinase c ppkc 5262728. h2r by contrast suppresses inflammation by inducing protein kinase a pka phosphorylation 529 or by suppressing tlr-mediated inflammation 30. h2r antagonists increased infection risk and necrotizing enterocolitis in low birth weight infants 3132 and doubled the risk of hospitalization and surgery for patients with crohn's disease 33. suppression of intestinal inflammation depended on the presence of dietary l-histidine and histamine-generating lr 6475 in a murine colitis model via a h2r-mediated mechanism 34. histidine decarboxylase hdc is the unique enzyme responsible for generation of a biogenic amine histamine via conversion of l-histidine in mammals including humans 1435. hdc deficiency in mice was shown to promote inflammation-associated colorectal cancer crc by accumulation of cd11bgr-1 immature myeloid cells imcs in bone marrow and spleen compared to wild- type mice 14. this deficiency was associated with increased concentrations of pro- inflammatory cytokines especially il-6 and il-1 and excessive quantities of il-1 were generated at least partly by immature myeloid cells in the circulation 14. histamine plays a key role in the maturation of immature myeloid cells imcs via hdc expression 36.histamine derived from l. reuteri differentially promotes h2r pathway signaling and may antagonize h1r signaling in parallel.

in addition amounts of plasma il-10 a cytokine known to suppress inflammation were increased in mice colonized by wt l. reuteri supplemental figure 2f and whereas g-csf and il-6 were diminished supplemental figure 2a  2e in sw mice colonized with wt l. reuteri supplemental figure 2a-2f.intestinal mucosal pro-inflammatory cytokine suppression by hdca dgka wt l. reuteriin gnotobiotic micemucosal immune responses due to the presence and absence of histamine andor diacylglycerol kinase of wild type l. reuteri 6475 were measured in intestinal mucosal tissue samples.

in addition mammalian dgk quantified from the cecal intestinal epithelium by immunoblot did not yield significant differences between control mice and the gf mice colonized with wt or mutant l. reuteri supplemental figure 3b.bacterial histidine decarboxylase mrna and luminal histamine present in the intestinal lumen of gnotobiotic balbc mice colonized by l reuteriluminal contents were treated with 99 methanol and the supernatants obtained were used for histamine quantification using lc-ms. wt l. reuteri 6475 and mutant ddgka l. reuteri colonized balbc mice yielded detectable luminal histamine qualitative data not shown.

the enteroids treated with a dgk inhibitor r59-022 yielded increased pkc phosphorylation in the presence of wt lr cm while enteroids lacking dgk inhibitor in the presence of wt lr cm did not yield evidence of increase pkc phosphorylation supplemental figure 5. similarly in vitro treatment of ht-29 human epithelial cells with ddgka lr cm yielded a nearly three-fold increase in pkc phosphorylation compared to treatment with lr wt cm supplemental figure 4c.

d western blot analysis of cecal mucosa proteins from wt dhdca ddgka lr colonized and gf mice incubated with antibody targeting ikba l35a5 nfkb complex.ganesh et al.page 21figure 4. l. reuteri 6475 derived-dgk secreted into the mediuma conditioned media cm from wt l. reuteri lr 6475 grown in ldm4 with lipid diacylglycerol dag supplements for 12 hours were analyzed using ekisgent nanolc and the abciex tripletof 5600 mass spectrometer.

kruskal-wallis test with dunn's correction.ganesh et al.page 23figure 5. l. reuteri resides close to intestinal epithelium and epithelial histamine receptors fluorescent in-situ hybridization analysis used to see l. reuteri lr localization in the mouse intestine a bc wt de dhdca and f ddgka lr 6475. red color indicates thebacterium and blue color or white color indicates the nuclei stained with dapi.

mutant dhdca lr yielded absence of detectable histamine in liquid media supplemental table 1. however mutant dhdca lr lacked detectable histamine in culture supernatants supplemental table 1. bacterial histidine decarboxylase mrna presumably at least partly from l. reuteri was also detectable in the intestinal lumens of gnotobiotic balbc mice colonized by wild type and mutant ddgka l. reuteri figure 4e.l.

furthermore microbial dag kinase appears to modulate myeloid cell maturation and cytokine production in vivo.resultswild type and mutant l. reuteri 6475 stably colonize the germ-free mouse intestineten week-old balbc germ-free mice were either colonized with l. reuteri 6475 wt wt or dhdca l. reuteri 6475 dhdca or ddgka l. reuteri 6475 ddgka on day 1 and maintained for 22 days figure 1a.

similarly sw mice colonized with wt lr also showed increased mucus fucosylation with increased mucus secreting goblet cells supplemental figure 8av- 8aviii 8b.histamine-dependent enhancement of cd11bgr-1ly6ghigh splenic myeloid cell maturation was offset by the absence of dag kinase in l. reuterito determine if bacterial derived histamine has immunomodulatory effects by targeting myeloid cell maturation gf mice were colonized with wt dhdca ddgka lr and a control group without any bacteria.

the absence of endogenous histamine results in increased proportions of immature myeloid cells imcs and has been associated with cancer progression in mammals 14. aomdss treated hdc-- male mice showed significantly reduced cd11bgr-1 imcs 80 in spleens after oral administration of hdc lr 6475 wt treatment 41. in the current study balbc gnotobiotic mice colonized with wt l. reuteri strain yielded significantly decreased proportions of cd11bgr-1 imcs in the spleen figure 6b suggesting that histamine-generating lr promotes maturation of splenic cd11bgr-1 imcs figure 6a  6b.

c-i transmission electron microscopy or c-ii scanning electron microscopy of ht29 cells co-cultured with wt lr 6475 for 2 i or 6 ii hours under anoxic condition.ganesh et al.page 18figure 2. l. reuteri colonization reduced pro-inflammatory responses in mono-associated balbc micebalbc mice 10 weeks old were colonized with l. reuteri lr 6475 on day 1 and euthanized on day 23 showed reduced inflammatory biomarkers.

interestingly ddgka lr colonized mice had increased levels of plasmail-1a a pro-inflammatory cytokine predominantly secreted by macrophages 61. il-1a maypromote il-6 production 62. since we observed decreased il-1a protein levels in blood plasma of wt lr colonized mice but not in dhdca and ddgka lr colonized mice weganesh et al.page 11speculate that luminal histamine and luminal dag kinase may both be important for il-1a production by mucosal macrophages.

additionally non-phosphorylated pkc protein concentrations increased over time in the presence of wt lr cm and decreased with mutant ddgka lr cm treatment in ht-29 human epithelial cells supplemental figure 4c.activation and accumulation of cytosolic nf-kb ikba-relap50 complex is dependent on phosphorylation of p-pkc 37. the intestinal epithelial tissues obtained from the cecal mucosa of mice colonized by wt mutant dhdca or ddgka l. reuteri were compared to control gf mice.

on day 23 the sw mice were euthanized and werecolonized with log109.83 - 0.24 of wt lr per gram of cecal contents supplemental figure 1b.systemic immune responses were suppressed by intestinal colonization with histamine- generating dag kinase-producing wt l. reuterito identify whether hdca dgka l. reuteri 6475 colonization had an impact on immunomodulation of the mouse intestine pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin il-1a il-6 tnf-a il-17 il-22 il-12 eotaxin g-csf and ifn-g were analyzed in the blood plasma of gnotobiotic and gf control mice.

similarly il-6 mrna and protein quantities were significantly reduced in the cecal mucosa of sw mice colonized by wt l. reuteri compared to control gf mice supplemental figure 2g 2i-2j.colonization by wild type dgka but not mutant ddgka l. reuteri inhibits mucosal pkc phosphorylation and nfkb accumulation in intestinal epitheliumsince pkc phosphorylation depends on availability of dag through g-protein coupled receptor activation 5 phosphorylation of p-pkc was compared among the cecal mucosae of mice colonized by wt and mutant dhdca or ddgka l. reuteri in addition to control gf mice.

