one possible explanation for this could relate to the phenotypic differences between planktonic and biofilm cultured cells as it is the former that are most frequently used for in vitro antifungal susceptibility testing.echinocandin antifungals and flucytosine do not have a role to play in the outpatient treatment of oral candidosis and will not be considered here.oral candidosesthe four distinct primary forms of oral candidosis comprise pseudomembranous candidosis acute erythematous candidosis chronic erythematous candidosis cec and chronic hyperplastic candidosis chc.

it is becoming increas- ingly acknowledged that as well as interac- tion between host factors and candida the bacterial component of the oral microbiome is also involved in the development of oral can- didosis.8 when considering candida virulence factors it is important to note that a number of these do not directly induce damage to host tissues but will influence lifestyle of candida which indirectly promote pathogenicity.9in order to cause oral candidosis candida has to be retained within the mouth.

if symptoms are significant then systemic fluconazole 50 mg once daily for seven days can be prescribed.chronic erythematous candidosischronic erythematous candidosis is commonly referred to as candida-associated denture stomatitis and presents as a reddening of the mucosa beneath the fitting surface of a dentureinadequate oral hygiene continuous wearing of the denture or the presence of a poor fitting denture.19 chronic erythematous candidosis is the most prevalent form of oral candidosis with up to 75 of denture wearers having clinical signs of this condition although often the individual is unaware of infection.20imprints or swabs taken from the fitting surface of the denture and the palatal mucosa can be used to confirm the presence of candida following culture.

on rare occasions candida can enter the blood stream and be disseminated to many organs with resultant life threatening infection.5 such systemic candidal infection is beyond the scope of this article.while candida species are normally harmless residents of the mouth when con- ditions alter to an environment that favours proliferation of candida a shift to a 'patho- genic' relationship with the host may occur.

the role of candida in this mucosal condition is supported by the observation that provision of systemic fluconazole often results in resolution of the clinical signs and symptoms.chronic mucocutaneous candidosis cmc is a particular condition where a range of superficial candida infections of mucous membranes skin and nails are encountered.

5 incubated chromagar candida plate yielding a mixed growth of c. albicans green c. tropicalis blue c. krusei pale and c. glabrata mauvedirectly onto an agar plate in the clinic beforebeing sent to the laboratory.of cases of pseudomembranous candidosis and erythematous candidosis by use of onewhere no obvious mucosal lesion is presentthen indirect sampling involving collection of whole saliva in a sterile universal container or an oral rinse method is more appropriate.

alternatively a swab from the white patches can be sent for culture and this can be used to identity the candida species present.the pseudomembranous candidosis form of candidosis is most frequently associated with use of steroid therapy.

while of primary importance in the management of chronic eryhtematous candidosis the denture hygiene measures described above should be instituted as an aspect of the treatment of all forms of oral candidosis since candidal coloni- sation of the acrylic componenet of the denture acts as a chronic reservoir of candida species that will lead to recurrence of infection within the mouth.british dental journal  volume 223 no.

11. this form of candidosis may also be accompa- nied by the presence of staphylococcus aureus or streptococcal species and therefore the exact role that candida itself plays in the infection is difficult to ascertain.25 often angular cheilitisoccurs in patients with a pre-existing primary form of oral candidosis.

candida albicans is the most frequently isolated candidal species from the oral cavity although a range of non-c. albicans candida species are being increasingly encountered.

the term candida originates from the latin word 'candidus' meaning white.identity and pathogenicitythe most prevalent candida species recovered from both healthy and infected human mouths is c. albicans and it is estimated that this species is responsible for over 80 of oral fungal isolates.

in recent years the importance of these non- candida albicans candida species in human disease has increasingly been recognised.

the transition of candida from a harmless commensal to a pathogen is complex and most likely relates to local environmental changes in the host that promote either increasedgrowth of candida or altered expression of its virulence factors.

of concern with this infection is the proposed link with malignant change at lesional sites although the role of candida in carcinogenesis or the development of epithe- lial dyspasia remains unclear.2122 it has been suggested that it may be helpful to provide a seven day course of systemic antifungal therapy before taking a biopsy of a suspiciousof chc is dependent on the histological exam- ination of lesional biopsy material which will reveal invading candida hyphae.24 there will also be a chronic inflammatory response in the underlying connective tissues.

should host defences against these commensals be compromised in any way then candida can cause clinical signs and symptoms which manifest as distinct forms of oral candidosis candidiasis.

