p  0.05.since we reported a down-regulation of expression of genes whose products are involved in the cholesterolmetabolism we wanted to further investigate the effect of dietary l. rhamnosus supplementation on total body cholesterol content to test its effects 9 zebrafish samples per group each sample made of a pool of adult until reaching 300 mg of tissue.high performance liquid chromatography hplc analyses performed on total body evidenced that the cho- lesterol content does not change in correlation of the fat content in the diet hfd-c fed fish 6.2 - 0.4 ug mg-1 mfd-c 7.6 - 5.5 ug mg-1 lfd-c 5.3 - 0.4 ug mg-1 p  0.05. however comparing the groups fed probiotic-enriched and probiotic-free diets zebrafish fed a hfd-p had significantly lower content of total choles- terol 3.1 - 0.2 ug mg-1 compared to hfd-c fed fish 6.2 - 0.4 ug mg-1 p  0.05. in addition results showed a significantly lower total cholesterol content in zebrafish fed a mfd-p 5.5 - 0.3 ug mg-1 compared to the total cholesterol of the zebrafish fed a mfd-c 7.6 - 5.5 ug mg-1 confirming results of our previous work conducted on zebrafish larvae.

tem micrograph showing large lipid droplets accumulation in the apical epithelium of enterocytes and intraepithelial macrophages in hfd-c fed fish a. intact brush border in hfd-c fed fish b. macrophages in mfd-c fed fish in contact with the cell membrane of infiltrated lymphocytes and granulocytes c. intraepithelial macrophages with typical features of phagocytic cells in lfd-c fed fish d. magnification of intra-epithelium granulocytes in mfd-c fed fish e. l  lymphocyteg  granulocyte asterisk  macrophage.

p  0.05. the addition of the probiotic to the diets significantly increased nucb2a gene expression in fish fed a hfd-p and mfd-p compared to hfd-c and mfd-c fed fish p  0.05 while no significant differences in mrna levels of this gene was observed between lfd-c fed fish and lfd-p fed fish fig.

p  0.05. in the pro- biotic treated groups data showed a significant down-regulation of npy gene transcripts in hfd-p and mfd-p fed fish compared to hfd-c and mfd-c fed fish p  0.05 while no significant differences in npy mrna was observed in lfd-c and lfd -p fed fish fig.

mesorhizobium was unique to the mfd-p fed fish oxalobacteraceae other was unique to mfd-p and hfd-p fed fish and gordonia unique in lfd-p and hfd-p fed fish fig.

particularly results showed that the probiotic reduced the weight gain in hfd-p 47.1 - 12.2 mg and mfd-p 46.0 - 5.5 mg fed fish compared to hfd-c 73.6 - 10.2 mg and mfd-c 64.2 - 12.7 mg fed fish p  0.05 while no signifi- cant differences in wet weight were observed between lfd-p 43.5 - 5.5 mg and lfd-c 57.1 - 12.3 mg fed fish p  0.05 supplemental table .pca analysis.

nucb2nesfatin-1 was significantly decreased in mfd-p and hfd-p fed fish compare to mfd-c and hfd-c a. graph b showed no differences between preproghrelin content in zebrafish fed a mfd-p and hfd-p compared to mfd-c and hfd-c fed fish.

p  0.05. while inter individual variations in band intensities were observed the normalized results with v inculin clearly indicate that precursors of nesfatin-1 increase while the fat content increase in the diet and ghrelin decreased when the fat content increase in the diet.by analysing 4 zebrafish intestines 10 sections per fish results showed that cross sections of 4 zebrafish intestine stained positive for nesfatin-1-like within rounded or flask-shaped cells fig.

however no significant differences were found in total cholesterol content between zebraf- ish fed a lfd-p 4.9 - 1.1 ug mg-1 and zebrafish fed a lfd-c 5.3 - 0.4 ug mg-1 p  0.05.dietary fat content and probiotic supplementation modulates the expression of genes involved in tag metabolism and decreases the total body tag in zebrafish fed a hfd and mfd but not in lfd fed fish.

contrary to what previously found in zebrafish larvae  the findings we obtained with adult zebrafish are supported by the loss of weight observed in the adult fish fed a hdf-p and mfd-p compared to the control ones and suggest the capability of the probiotic to successfully prevent weight gain thus reducing the high-fat-diet induced obesity.increasing evidence indicates that a chronic supplementation of high fat content in the diet is associated with an attenuation of the intestinal feedback signals induced by fat with a consequent modulation of energy intake lipid accumulation and inflammation.furthermore as seen in the graph fig.

relative nucb2a a gcga b npy c gene expression normalized against b-act and rplp in fish fed a hfd-c mfd-c and lfd-c and fish fed a hfd-p mfd-p and lfd-p. assays were performed in triplicate.

preproghrelin protein was significantly increased in lfd-p compare to lfd-c. values with different superscript letters are significantly different p  0.05.significantly up-regulated gcga gene expression in fish fed hfd-p and mfd-p compared to hfd-c and mfd-c fed fish fig.

preproghrelin levels significantly decreased in hfd-c fed fish compared to fish fed mfd-c and lfd-c fig.

relative hnf4a anpc1l1 b mgll c and fit2 d gene expression normalized against b-act and rplp in fish fed a hfd-cmfd-c and lfd-c and fish fed a hfd-p mfd-p and lfd-p. assays were performed in triplicate.

p  0.05. remarkably npc1l1 transcript levels decreased by almost 4-fold in hfd-p mfd-p lfd-p fed fish compared to hfd-c mfd-c lfd-c fed fish fig.

