2014 19722-30. pubmed 24703703sen et al.page 18sen et al.page 19figure 1. hsd consumption increases body fat contenta-c. daily changes in body weight a body fat b lean mass c of rats fed with regular diet lflsd in blue low-fat diet lfhsd in green or high-fat diet hfhsd in red for four weeks n4 shows that both hfhsd and lfhsd can significantly increase both body weight and body fat gains compared to control lflsd.

obesity research traditionally uses low and high fat diets and there has been limited investigation of the potential detrimental effects of a low-fathigh-sugar diet lfhsd on body fat accumulation and health.therefore in the present study we investigated the effects of hfhsd and lfhsd on microbiota composition gut inflammation gut-brain vagal communication and body fat accumulation.specifically we tested the hypothesis that lfhsd changes the gut microbiota induces gut inflammation and alters vagal gut-brain communication associated with increased body fat accumulation.sprague-dawley rats were fed an hfhsd lfhsd or control low-fatlow-sugar diet lflsd for 4 weeks.

however a growing body of evidence has been pointing to its inadequacy for weight loss or disease prevention 3 4. interestingly many commercial low-fat foods are high in sugar and refined carbohydrates 5 and increased intake of sugars especially fructose has been linked to increased body fat accumulation and obesity 6.there is evidence that the gut microbiota plays a role in obesity 7. in humans and animal models changes in diet composition can rapidly trigger changes in gut microbiota composition 8 9. interestingly colonization of germ-free gf animals with either a lean or an obese microbiota leads to a recapitulation of the donor phenotype identifying the gut microbiota as a potential driver of obesity 10. the gut microbiota impacts the host metabolism and notably affects energy harvest and fat storage 8 10 as well as inflammatory status 10 11. consumption of hfhsd has been associated with increased production of bacterial pro-inflammatory factors such a lipopolysaccharide lps a breakdown product of the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria 7 11. moreoverdiet-driven gut inflammation results in impairment in the gut epithelial barrier leading to enhanced lps uptake into the plasma 7 12. an increase in circulating lps also called metabolic endotoxemia can trigger systemic inflammation impair liver function alter food intake 12 and promote body fat accumulation 11 12. interestingly lps has been shownsen et al.page 3in culture to activate vagal afferent neurons 13 and chronic treatment with low doses of lps results in ng inflammation and impairs vagal satiety signaling 12.gut-originating peptides signal via the vagus nerve to control meal initiation and termination 14 15. disruption of vagal afferent signaling is sufficient to drive obesity in a diet-induced rat obesity model 13. therefore microbiota-mediated dysregulation of gut-brain vagal communication might contribute to the pathogenesis of obesity and its related diseases.in the present study we investigated the influence of diets rich in sugars with different fat contents on microbiota composition and gut-brain axis inflammation.

however the observed increased body fat accumulation cannot be attributed solely to just the sugar content because of some fiber and microelements differences between the control lflsd and high-sugar diets used in the study.sen et al.page 9hsd consumption significantly alters gut microbial ecologydiet-induced obesity is associated with marked changes in the microbiota composition and there is evidence that microbiota composition can regulate body fat accumulation colonization of gf mice with the microbiota from a diet-induced obese animal notably leads to a significant increase in body fat 32 33. previous studies have shown that diet-induced dysbiosis and associated impairment in gut function are especially marked in the distal gut including the colon and cecum 34 35. in the present study we focused on fecal microbiota composition.we characterized the microbiota composition at baseline 24hrs day 1 6 days week 1 and 26 days week 4 post-diets introduction.

interestingly a diet rich in medium and long chain saturated fatty acids has previously been shown to counterbalance the effect of ethanol on liver inflammation and fat accumulation 50.hsd consumption led to an increase in metabolic endotoxemiain the present study we found that hsd consumption regardless of fat contents led to a significant increase in cecal and circulating lps levels when compared to control lflsd- fed animals figure 5a b. although there was no significant difference in lps levels between hfhsd and lfhsd hfhsd fed animals displayed higher lps levels in both cecum and serum at the end of the experiment figure 5a b which may be directly related to the exaggerated dysbiosis observed in these animals.the increase in circulating lps has previously been reported in diet-induced obesity models 11. interestingly in rodents chronic administration of lps led to an increase in body fat mass 11 12 which was not systematically accompanied by an increase in food intake 11 suggesting that lps can modulate fat metabolism and body fat accumulation.consumption of hsd promotes gut inflammation and impaired gut epithelial functionlps binding to its receptor toll-like receptor-4 tlr4 leads to nuclear translocation of transcription factor nf-kb and upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines expressions such as tnf-a il-6 and il-1b.

both lfhsd and hfhsd rats were required to consume significantly fewer calories to gain a gram of body fat than the lflsd animals figure 2d suggesting that despite providing less fat the lfhsd diet modified body fat metabolism and storage similarly to the energy dense hfhsd resulting in an increase in adiposity 30. hsd may also be downregulating energy expenditure 31 however we did not measure it in this study.we concluded that diet composition plays a critical role in regulating fat storage and diets rich in sugars may promote adiposity.

compared to lflsd lfhsd fed rats had significant increases in body fat after one week on their diet and significant increases in body weight appeared after threesen et al.page 20weeks.

recent studies have shown that a leaky gut can contribute to thesen et al.page 8onset and progression of liver diseases such as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld 27.in this study we found that liver fat was significantly increased in the lfhsd group compared to lflsd-fed rats lflsd 12.05 - 1.317g lfhsd 19.575 - 2.013 g p0.05 by one-way anova with post-hoc tukey-kramer test.

during the study period both of the sugar-rich diets lfhsd and hfhsd led to a significant loss in species diversity.sen et al.page 24figure 4. hsd intake alters gut microbial ecology that promotes host adipositymicrobiota composition of animals fed lflsd lfhsd hfhsd.

lfhsd in particular is marked by the abundance of members of proteobacteria particularly the genera sutterella and bilophila.sen et al.page 26figure 5. hsd consumption enhances lps levels in gut and serumlal assay was used to measure the cecum a and plasma b endotoxin concentration in rats fed with lflsd lfhsd and hfhsd for four weeks.

overall body fat mass was greater in lfhsd than lflsd lfhsd 39-3.1 g and lflsd 29.7-2 g and greater in hfhsd than both lf fed groups hfhsd 59.8-8.5 g figure 1b.sprague-dawley rats have previously been reported to display different phenotypes obesity- prone and obesity-resistant when fed a high-fat diet 25. in this particular cohort only one animal was somewhat resistant to diet-induced obesity.

difference between the lfhsd and hfhsd did not reach significance at week 4 figure 2a.the lfhsd rats had increased body fat accumulation figure 1b when compared to the lflsd rat while consuming fewer calories figure 2a.

in this study all animals were included in the hfhsd group and were all significantly heavier than the lflsd.interestingly consumption of both the lfhsd and hfhsd led to a significant increase in body fat and body weight compared to the lflsd leading us to conclude that diets rich in sugars can promote obesity.

significant differences in body fat between hfhsd and lfhsd appeared after one week on experimental diets while significant differences in body weight did not appear until after the second week between these two groups.

the composition of the lflsd was analyzed by np analytical laboratories st. louis mo.measurement of body composition body weight and food intakebody weight body composition and food intake were measured daily throughout the experiment.

