at the zero period the abundance of bifidobacteriaceae sequences were 0.1 - 0.06 whereas in the eq periodthis family showed an abundance of 4.3 - 1.07. contrarily the gut microbiota re-structuration triggered by the challenging diets showed a gradual decrease of the family lactobacillaceae from 22.4 - 1.76 of abundance observed in zero period to 3 - 0.52 in the eq period fig.

moreover the abundance of shared proteins counts for the most of the total lfq indexes of each adaptation period hampering the masking effect arising from the consideration of the shared proteins.functional profiles of the bacterial communities in the diverse adaptation periods reveal a dynamic change of the bacterial activity.

.in general abundance profiles of the animal proteins confirmed the previously observed gradual adaptation process highlighting two distinct representations for zero and eq samples whereas ma period samples recorded intermediate abundance values p  0.001 fig.

summarises the biochem- ical pathways with the highest variability in abundance between the adaptation periods including along with the bacterial families that contributed to their expression.the clostridiaceae family whose abundance increases in the eq period showed a concomitant increase in abundance in some of the selected pathways such as the pentose and glucuronate interconversion pathway ko00040 and the glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism ko00630.

similarly sorting of the protein dataset revealed that a variable number of proteins was uniquely identified ineach of the three adaptation periods 1521 595 1927 respectively for zero ma and eq period whereas an equal number of proteins is shared between the ma-zero and ma-eq periods.

three adaptation periods p  0.001.the lfq values of the sorted proteins in each adapta- tion period were compared to each other to identify the major proteins responsible for the observed statistical differences.

thus we focused on the unique proteins of each adaptation period to high- light the dynamics featuring the taxonomic composition of the fecal microbiota across the adaptation periods.the dna-based investigation revealed a dynamic composition of the fecal microbiota over the experi- mental time frame fig.

abundance of proteins identified in the zero period depicted a strong implication of the host in cell growth motility and cell cycle as supported by the high abun- dance of proteins such as actin alpha1 gn  acta1 and annexin a4 gn  anxa4.

the phase prior to the experi- mental diet administration metabolic adaptation ma adaptation period to the challenging diets and equilibrium eq last experimental period where a new suited microbiota is established.

nevertheless the high abundance of the glycerol dehydrogenase ec 1.1.1.6 and 13-propanediol dehydrogenase ec 1.1.1.202 observed in the glycerolipid metabolism kegg pathway reveals a possible implication of the eq bacterial com- munity in alternative strategies to improve carbon and energy yield through the use of glycerol as a carbon and energetic source 50 on the other hand the increased abundance of phos- phoriboisomerase ec 5.3.1.6 and tagatose 16-diphos- phate aldolase ec 4.2.1.40 suggests a higher concern of the eq-related bacterial community in entering the glycolytic route in order to yield the energy required to complete the specialization process for an optimal settlement in the new host environment.investigation of the ma period proteins describes a transitory bacterial community featured by intermediate evidence in terms of both composition and function.

proteins of clostridiaceae 10.5 - 1.0 at the zero period to 18.6 - 1.2 of the total protein abundance scored in the eq period and bifidobacteriaceae 0 2.4 - 0.03 and 10.2 - 0.7 in zero ma and eq periods respectively increased gradually within time fig.

.the abundance of proteins related to prevotellaceae members collapse during the ma period and are restored in the eq period suggesting prevotellaceae as a bacterial family involved in important housekeeping functions carried out in both homeostatic balances zero and eq.

the analysis of otu abundances and quantification values of proteins showed a significant separation of three periods of time p  0.001. samples from the first day are used todefine the 'zero period' samples of weeks 1 and 2 are combined as 'metabolic period' and an 'equilibriumperiod was defined based on samples from weeks 3 and 4. only in this last period a separation according to the supplementation of cap was significantly detectable p  0.001. no changes were found based on thecorn-soybean meal or corn-field peas administration.

featured by an increased abundance of the clostridiaceae and prevotellaceae families in the eq period 29.2 - 2.21 and 8.9 - 1.22. the peptostreptococcaceae increased in abundance with the administration of the experimental diets showing a higher abundance in the ma 11.9 - 0.74 and eq.

.proteins affiliated to erysipelotrichaceae indicate a reduced abundance in the eq period respectively1.6 - 0.6 and 0.8 - 0.01 of protein abundance in the zero and eq period.

