they also exhibit several anti-inflammatory effects and appear to have a role in the regulation of timing of immune responses as well as in the resolution of inflammation.the increasing number of studies supporting the association between dietary intake of fibers the micro- biome and health and immune parameters opens up new approaches in understanding and treating immune related diseases.

the cutoff values were based on values used previously.health- and immune statusdata on perceived health and immune status was col- lected using 1-item scores ranging from bad to excel- lent on a scale from 0 to 10. they were asked whether they considered their immune functioning to be reduced or not yesno.statistical analysisall statistical analysis was conducted using spss 23. descriptive statistics were computed for all parameters.

daily total fiber intake correlated significantly with the general health rate r  0.171 p  0.0001 and per- ceived immune functioning r  0.124 p  0.008. the partial correlation between fiber intake and general health remained significant r  0.151 p  0.002 after controlling for total caloric intake.in men dietary fiber intake correlated significantly with perceived general health status r  0.320 p  0.0001 and immune functioning r  0.281 p  0.002. after controlling for caloric intake the association between dietary fiber intake and perceived general health r  0.261 p  0.005 remained signifi- cant whereas the relationship with immune function-figure 1. dietary fiber intake and general health.

61 1297053original articledietary intake of fibers differential effects in men and women on perceived general health and immune functioningamanda m. fernstrand didi bury johan garssenand joris c. versteradivision of pharmacology utrecht university utrecht the netherlands bnutricia research utrecht the netherlands ccentre for human psychopharmacology swinburne university melbourne australia dinstitute for risk assessment sciences utrecht university utrecht the netherlandsarticle historyreceived 20 january 2016accepted 10 january 2017keywordsfiber microbiome dysbiosis perceived immune functioning genderhealth statusintroductionover the past decades changes in socio-economic sta- tus population growth and agriculture have led to altered dietary habits.

this number was significantly higher compared to the male population who reported reduced immunity in 21.3 of the cases p  0.018.associations between dietary intake and perceived health and immune rate and show the relationship between daily fiber intake and perceived health and immune status.

no significant relationship was found between dietary fiber intake and perceived health and immune rate in women.daily intake of cereals and grain products correlated significantly with perceived immune functioning r  0.110 p  0.14 but not with general health ratings.

additionally immune function and susceptibility to immune related disease differ between the genders.

combining subjec- tive measurements with laboratory assessments including objective analyses of microbial composition and immune parameters are necessary to further explore the impact of fiber intake on health and immune status.acknowledgementswe would like thank liselot ribbert leontine lensvelt annick de with and laure goede for the their help with collecting the data.disclosure statementjoris verster has received grantsresearch support from the dutch ministry of infrastructure and the environment janssen nutricia red bull and takeda and has acted as a consultant for the canadian beverage association centraal bureau drogisterijbedrijven coleman frost danone deenox eisai janssen jazz purdue red bull sanofi- aventis sen-jam pharmaceutical sepracor takeda transcept trimbos institute and vital beverages.

furthermore the microbiome communicates with the immune system and modulates the development of the gastrointestinal tract.

intake of dietary fibers also appears to improve immune functioning.

yet the diet of a substantial number of people in developed countries is insufficient to achieve the recommended daily intake of fibers.fibers affect immune functioning particularly viathe production of short-chain fatty acids.

therefore the aim of this study is to investigate potential gender differences in the association between dietary fiber intake and per- ceived general health and immune functioning in healthy young adults.methodsparticipantsthis study was conducted among dutch university students.

for the group as a whole and for males and females separately the associations between dietary fiber intake and perceived health and immune status were com- puted using two-tailed nonparametric spearman's rank correlations.

the mean sd rating for immune function was 7.8 1.3 for the total population 7.71.0 for women and 8.0 1.5 for men.

regardingperceived immune status 28.9 of the overall study population reported reduced immunity.

