this is through the feedback regulation between the central nervous system and the peripheral adipose tissue 135136. leptin levels appear to be positively associ- ated with obesity and crc 137138 and they are believed to be an important factor in the intercellular interactions between adipocytes fibroblasts epithelial cells and immune cells 139. an investigation of 108 crc patients indicated a relation- ship between leptin levels and progression of cancer such as lymph node metastasis distant metastasis and differentia- tion suggesting that leptin is involved in cancer proliferation and apoptosis which may be through the pi3kaktmtor signaling pathway 140. leptin also has an anti-apoptotic role in human colon cancer cell lines and promotes the proliferation of normal colonic epithelial and cancer cells as the wnt signaling pathway a key pathway in crc can be activated by leptin leading to crc cell proliferation in vitro 141 while leptin-deficient mice showed a dramatic inhibition of tumor growth 142. moreover leptin can also promote crc progression by stimulating vegf secretion through hypoxia-inducible factor-1 hif-1 and nuclear factor-kb nf-kb activation 17143. interestingly it is clear that leptin and adiponectin can neutralize each other's prolif- erative function because leptin plays a role in blocking the anti-proliferative effects of adiponectin in cancer cells 144 while adiponectin has a negative effect on the proliferative function of leptin 145. this suggests that the cancer risk related to metabolic syndrome can be accurately assessed by the leptin-to-adiponectin ratio.tnf-a.

importantly a high-fat low-fiber diet is associated with dysbiosis and as the gut signature becomes more important in metabolic syndrome and crc an increased understanding of diets on bacterial activity in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome and crc will lead to new preventive and therapeutic strategies.contentsintroductionmetabolic syndrome is a brain- inflammatory- and microbial-related diseasecolonic carcinogenesis may be promoted by diet-related carcinogenic metabolitesadipocytokines link metabolic syndrome to the risk of crcconclusionintroductionvisceral obesity or in its broader terminology metabolic syndrome is an emerging lifestyle-related health problem that has globally increased in prevalence in recent deca- des 1-5. metabolic syndrome is clinically defined as a combination of visceral obesity increased blood pressure insulin resistance and dyslipidemia 67. this condition has been extensively investigated due to its correlation with various health problems in humans including cardiovascular diseases type 2 diabetes t2d and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.

in addition to these diseases which are directly related to visceral adiposity recent studies have also expl- ored other consequences of metabolic syndrome such as thromboembolic conditions hypogonadism and various cancers 8-11. recent studies have suggested that the patho- physiology of metabolic syndrome is partly associated with dysfunction of the intestinal flora 12-14 a condition called dysbiosis 15. both brain functions and gut microbiota influence fat intake and increased body mass which in turn is a source of cytokines that induce chronic low-grade inflammation and carcinogenesis 16-18. additionally obesity itself influences the ecology of the gut microbiota population 19.colorectal cancer crc is one the cancers that has been associated with metabolic syndrome.

although there are several lymphocyte cell types that are related to obesity and metabolic syndrome pro-inflammatory th1 th17 and cd8 t cells predominate over anti-inflammatory regulatory t cells treg and th2 cells which are found in higher proportions in lean adipose tissue 7778. one study found that mice fed a high-fat diet displayed more th1 polarization and interferon-g ifn-g production which occurred several months after macrophage accumulation and insulin resistance 79. however the number of treg cells was decreased in the adipose tissue of obese mice but insulin sensitivity can also be improved when these cells are increased 78. an increased number of th17 cells in thespleen has been found in mice fed a high-fat diet but this cell was absent in il-6-- mice fed the same high-fat diet indicating that il-6 is important for th17 expansion in obesity 80.cd8 t cells are another type of lymphocytes that may be involved in obesity development since co-cultures of splenic cd8 t cells with adipose tissue from high-fat diet mice showed a higher proliferation rate of cd8 t cells than those of the lean controls 81. several studies have also found that higher numbers of cd8 t cells were positively correlated with an increased risk of insulin resistance 788182. the recovery of cd8 t cells in knockout mice exacerbated obesity-induced insulin resistance and this was correlated with increased m1 macrophages and il-6 and tnf-a gene expression in adipose tissue 81.b lymphocyte.

although obesity and meta- bolic syndrome are generally considered a problem of the gut neurobiological studies have shown that the brain also plays an important role since neurobiological diseases such as stroke dementia intracranial hypertension and sleep disorders are associated with obesity 24. moreover obesity can be initiated by pathological conditions of the brain and several neuropsychiatric drugs 2526. therefore the brain appears to be a central regulator that directs energy fluxes within an organism.according to the 'selfish brain theory' 27 which states that the human brain fulfills its own comparably high energy needs with the highest priority there are three types of behav- ioral components regulated by the central nervous system for energy requests allocative ingestive and exploratory behaviors 28. the allocation of energy from the body to the central nervous system is the 'allocative behavior' carried out by organs such as the liver pancreas muscles and adipose tissue 28. the second strategy is 'ingestive behavior' descri- bing a situation where the brain acquires energy from its immediate environment which is initiated by sensory meta- bolic input signals including leptin and insulin 28-30 and afferent nerve fibers 3132. the last component exploratory behavior enables foraging in distant locations when energy resources in the immediate vicinity become scarce.

for example studies have shown that loss of the leptin receptors in the hypothalamus resulted in obesity insulin resistance and diabetes in mice 3839. leptin signaling abnormalities have also been found in obese patientsand were caused by a monogenetic defect or a leptin receptor mutation in the hypothalamus 4041.a regulator of insulin and leptin signaling protein tyro- sine phosphatase 1b has also been associated with leptin and insulin resistance in hypothalamic neurons 4243 as neuronal protein tyrosine phosphatase 1b-knockout mice showed improved glucose tolerance following chronic high-fat feeding 44. moreover vmh lesions may be associated with an unusual vagus nerve-hypothalamus interaction pathway leading to miscommunication between the adipose tissue and b-cells 45. other factors that result in obesity include a lack of a-melanocyte-stimulating hormone 46 insulin 47 or interleukin-6 il-6 48 or bilateral lesions of the amyg- dala 3649. however not all obese individuals develop obesity due to lesions of the brain.

in addition to t cells b cells have also shown a positive association with obesity in high-fat diet-fed mice because infiltration of b cells can be found in the adipose tissue of obese mice and these cells can activate t cells and polarize macrophages toward the m1 type 83. one study found that the number of igg-associated b cells increased rapidly after 4 weeks on a high-fat diet 84 and the cell numbers then remained consistent during the weight gain 8385. by using neutralizing antibodies against the b cells other studies have found that obesity-induced insulin resistance in mice could be improved and a reduction in m1 macrophages and activation of cd8 t cells along with an increase in treg numbers and m2 signatures could be observed in the adipose tissue 8386. although b cells are associated with the inflammatory condi- tion in obesity regulatory b cells which produce il-10 have been shown to improve insulin resistance and reduce pro-inflammatory cytokine production in the skeletal muscles of mice fed a high-fat diet 83. these results support the find- ings from other studies which found that low levels of il-10 were associated with metabolic syndrome and t2d 8788.metabolic syndrome as a microbial-related disease.

metabolic syndrome and obesity are related to a chronic low-grade systemic inflammatory condition characterized by increasing levels of circulating inflammatory cytokines and free fatty acids ffas 54. in contrast to classical inflammation this 'metabolic inflammation' 5556 does not necessarily involve pathogens but occurs as a result of metabolic homeostatic abnormalities.

nat rev cancer 15 484-498 2015.guffey cr fan d singh up and murphy ea linking obesity to colorectal cancer recent insights into plausible biological mechanisms.

epidemiological studies have demonstrated that colorectal adenomas and crc risk are higher in individuals with metabolic syndrome or any of its components 20-22. a recent meta-analysis of cohort studies reported that meta-bolic syndrome was associated with higher relative risks ofcorrespondence to dr surasak sangkhathat tumor biology research unit department of surgery faculty of medicine prince of songkla university hat yai songkhla 90110 thailande-mail contributed equallykey words colorectal cancer metabolic syndrome inflammation gut homeostasiscrc in men at 1.25 95 confidence interval 1.19-1.32 and in women at 1.34 1.09-1.64 22. in recent decades partly because of the improved resolution of high-throughput sequencing technology the gut microbiome has been exten- sively investigated.

j natl cancer inst 98 920-931 2006.pelucchi c negri e talamini r levi f giacosa a crispo a bidoli e montella m franceschi s and la vecchia c metabolic syndrome is associated with colorectal cancer in men.

eur j cancer 46 1866-1872 2010.esposito k chiodini p colao a lenzi a and giugliano d metabolic syndrome and risk of cancer a systematic review and meta-analysis.

science 341 1241214 2013.ferlay j soerjomataram i dikshit r eser s mathers c rebelo m parkin dm forman d and bray f cancer incidence and mortality worldwide sources methods and major patterns in globocan 2012. int j cancer 136 e359-e386 2015.sears cl and garrett ws microbes microbiota and colon cancer.

obesity is a major risk factor for several types of cardiovascular and meta- bolic diseases such as hyperglycemia t2d hypertension and atherosclerosis 23. individuals with more than three of these symptoms with or without obesity are diagnosed with 'metabolic syndrome'.

science 289 2122-2125 2000.volkow nd and wise ra how can drug addiction help us understand obesity nat neurosci 8 555-560 2005.wallenius v wallenius k ahren b rudling m carlsten h dickson sl ohlsson c and jansson jo interleukin-6-deficient mice develop mature-onset obesity.

