indicates significantly different from control day 0 p  0.01.the colonic nqo1 activity increased more than two-fold compared to day 0 control diet by day 7 p  0.004 and 3.3-fold by day 14 p  0.002. there was no increase in hepatic nqo1 activity compared to the activity in liver from rats fed the con diet even by 14 days of cb feeding .effects of grp on both cecal microbiota composition and grp hydrolysis study 2study 2 was designed to investigate whether the increased cecal microbial hydrolysis of grp seen in study 1 was due to the daily presence of grp andor non-grp components of broccoli.

2 standard deviation 0.01.experimental designrats from colonies 208 and 217 were used in study 1 and only rats from colony 217 were used in studies 2 and 3. study 1 18 rats from colony 208 were acclimated to ain93g control con diet randomized to six groups of three and fed the cb diet ad libitum for 0 1 2 4 7 or 14 days the study was then repeated with another 18 rats but from colony 217. study 2 to separate the effects of grp and non-grp components of broccoli 32 rats from colony 217 were randomized into four treatment groups n  8 and fed 1 con diet 2 cb diet 3 grp diet or 4 cb-h diet containing no grp for four days.

rats were fed with a 10 cooked broccoli cb grp-rich powder grp broccoli pre-hydrolyzed using myrosinase cb-h or the control diet con for four days n  8. a phylogenic tree describing the clustering of cecal microbial communities and b pca-individual factor map describing the cecal microbial communities.figure 5. rats were fed a 10 cooked broccoli cb grp-rich powder grp broccoli pre-hydrolyzed using myrosinase cb-h or the control diet con for four days n  8. concentrations of total isothiocyanate itc were measured in rat cecal supernatant after incubation ex vivo with grp 183 um for 120 min.

a key finding is that it is specifically the presence of grp in the diet that enhances microbial hydrolysis rates since when grp was fully hydrolyzed to sfn prior to feeding the broccoli had no impact on rates of exogenous grp hydrolysis figure .

less than 10 of the metabolized glucosinolate could be detected as itc 6 as erucin produced with 65 grp loss in 8 h incubation with escherichia coli vl8 and less that 1 of the starting grp level as sfn produced vs. 53 of grp degraded after 8 h incubation with enterococcus casseliflavus cp1.

further studies revealed that dietary grp was specifically responsible for the increased microbial grp hydrolysis ex vivo whereas changes in the cecal microbial communities were attributed to other broccoli components.

a grp-rich powder was prepared from broccoli seed raffinate sfn glucosinolate broccoli raffinate cs health louisville ky usa as previously described  and was added to the grp diet 0.41 ww to achieve the same grp concentrations as that found in the cb diet 10 broccoli ww.

the x- and y- coordinate values of the datapoints were extracted by webplotdigitizer  from the pca plots of each colony generated in r package factominer and were re-plotted in microsoft excel 2010.metabolism of grp by microbiome ex vivocecal contents were diluted 1 to 25 with pbs and mixed 11 vv with reinforced clostridial medium rcm bd difcotm franklin lakes nj usa which was found in our earlier studies to be suitable for grp hydrolysis ex vivo .

one-tail student's t-tests were performed to compare the difference between short-term 4 days and long-term 4 days cooked broccoli feeding on rat cecal microbialcommunities and to compare both the grp hydrolysis ex vivo and the nqo1 activities between the treated and control groups.resultsalteration in the cecal microbiota community and grp hydrolysis following 1-14 days of a cooked broccoli diet study 1the cecal microbiota was profiled to determine changes in bacterial taxa following consumption of cb or con diets.

values with similar letters are not different p  0.05.feeding rats the broccoli diet for 4 days increased ex vivo grp hydrolysis activity by 25-fold over that from rats fed no broccoli con diet p  0.001. the enhanced grp hydrolysis remained high throughout the feeding study 7 and 14 days.

however production in the cb and grp groups was greater than in either the con or cb-h groups figure  p  0.05.figure 4. impact of grp and other broccoli components on rat cecal microbial communities.

further supporting the concept that grp was not responsible for the changes seen in community structure the cecal microbial communities from rats fed con and grp were similar.

future research employing the examination of microorganisms at the species and strain level may provide further insights into the changes in the microbiome related to grp hydrolysis.in addition to grp broccoli contains several other components that may impact the microbiome .

in our study a three-day withdrawal from the broccoli diet decreased grp hydrolysis ex vivo suggesting that frequent broccoli ingestion may be essential for this improved microbial grp hydrolysis.

in our previous study  we gavaged rats with different doses of grp 30 60 and 120 mgkg for four days and observed a significant dose-dependent increase in nqo1 activity in the colon whereas there was only a slight increase in hepatic nqo1 activity with the highest dose of grp.

