mtor staining was strongest in epithelial cells suggesting they con- tribute most to the activity measured in the mtor activity assay and differential expression mtor pathway in the transcriptomics data sets.systemic cytokines and chemokinesto investigate whether the mtor activity induced by the different diets resulted in any changes in systemic immunity we measured a panel of cytokines and chemokines in the serum of mice from each dietary group .

activation of mtor pathway plays a key role in shaping and controlling the effector responses of immune cells associated with innate and adaptive immune responses through coupling these events to intracellular meta- bolic status and environmental nutrients .to investigate whether the relative down-regulation of gene transcription associated with mtor regulated cellular processes in sbm-fed mice was linked to reduced mtor activity we measured the amount of active phosphorylated mtor in ileal tissue samples.

as far as we are aware a correlation between mtor protein expression and mtor activity has not been previously reported and may be due to an autoregulatory mechanism involving mtor activation.as the effects of the sbm diet on mtor and immunity pathways in the ileal mucosal might be influenced by cross-talk with the microbiota we analyzed the effects of diet on the ilealimmunohistochemistry of pfa-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections with anti-mtor antibody in ileal tissue of mice fed with different experimental diets.

sbm soybean meal cas casein dwp partially delactosed whey powder sdpp spray dried porcine plasma wgm wheat gluten meal and ymw yellow meal worm.protein sources provide different levels nutrients to the epithelial and other cells of the ileum tissue and hence mtor phosphorylation and activity.to investigate whether this might be due to altered expression of mtor we used antibodies against mtor to detect the protein in section of ileal tissue from mice fed protein sources diets.

this suggest that levels of mtor protein expression correlate with mtor activity and that protein expression may be increased following activation of mtor possibly via an auto- regulatory mechanism.

research articledietary protein sources differentially affect microbiota mtor activity and transcription of mtor signaling pathways in the small intestinesoumya k. kar123 alfons j. m. jansman3 nirupama benis123 javier ramiro- garcia456 dirkjan schokker23 leo kruijt23 ellen h. stolte1 johanna j. taverne-thiele1 mari a. smits1237 jerry m. wells11 host microbe interactomics group wageningen university  research wageningen the netherlands 2 animal breeding and genomics centre wageningen university  research wageningen the netherlands 3 wageningen livestock research wageningen university  research wageningen the netherlands 4 laboratory of microbiology wageningen university  research wageningen thenetherlands 5 top institute food and nutrition wageningen the netherlands 6 laboratory of system and synthetic biology wageningen university  research wageningen the netherlands 7 wageningen bioveterinary research wageningen university  research wageningen the netherlandsopen accesscitation kar sk jansman ajm benis n ramiro- garcia j schokker d kruijt l et al.

2017 dietary protein sources differentially affect microbiota mtor activity and transcription of mtor signaling pathways in the small intestine.

the impact of diet on mtor signaling in the intestine is not fully understood not only with regard to the effector pathways but also with respect to mtor sensing of novel nutritional and microbial metabolites.to gain further insights into the effect of different conventional and unconventional dietary protein sources on intestinal energy levels in vivo we performed a transcriptomics analysis and measured mtorc1 protein in tissue.

the proportions of several other families were also affected by the various diets figsand.protein source influences mtorc1 activity and amount of mtor protein in ileum tissueendogenous levels of phosphorylated mtor in cells derived from ileal tissue of mice fed with sbm diet the most common source of animal protein was lowest among all the dietary treat- ments.

in comparison to the other protein sources 14 hub genes in gene networks associated with antigen presentation mtor signaling and tgfa expression were down-regulated in the mice on the sbm diet.functionally these genes are of particular relevance to mtor pathway which has a role in cel- lular differentiation and proliferation of epithelial cells as well as t cells b cells and antigen presenting cells in the intestinal lamina propria .

here sbm soybean meal cas casein sdpp spray dried porcine plasma wgm wheat gluten meal and ymw yellow meal worm.mtor pathways which might also be influenced by the diet or indirectly by effect of diet on the microbiota.histological detection of mtor with an anti-mtor antibody showed least reactivity in the ileum tissue sections of sbm fed mice which is consistent with which is consistent with the mtor activity results.

at the end of the experiment mice were sacrificed to collect ileal tis- sue to acquire gene expression data and mammalian mechanistic target of rapamycin mtor activity ileal digesta to study changes in microbiota and serum to measure cyto- kines and chemokines.

they mostly related to the mtor pathway.

based on protein digestibility and amino acid composition yellow meal worm ymw seems to be a promising source of dietary protein for human and monogastric animals .amino acid availability is known to regulate the activity of the mechanistic target of rapa- mycin mtor pathway which is a key integrator of nutrient energy and metabolic status controlling diverse function in different cells types through two protein complexes.

low atpadp ratio inhibit mtor complex 1 mtorc1 activity and upregulation of autophagy to recycle nutrients.

