each sample contained at least 30000 effective sequences supplementary figure 1. the rarefaction curves showed that these sequence depths were sufficient for capturing the major microbiota in each sample supplementary figure 2. more than 99 of the otus could be well annotated at the family level in each sample supplementary figure 3.general pattern of the gut microbiota of the wild crocodile lizardin the total dataset most of the bacteria were identified as proteobacteria 47.9 and bacteroidetes 32.1. at the phylum level majority of species in the wild crocodile lizard gut microbiota were classified as proteobacteria 56.4 bacteroidetes 19.1 and firmicutes 2.6. in addition the wild samples from luokeng nature reserve also had a high abundance of deinococcus-thermus 13.6 while the samples from daguishan nature reserve had a high abundance of tenericutes 5.9. at the family level the most abundant taxa in the wild crocodile lizard gut microbiota from luokeng nature reserve were pasteurellaceae deinococcaceae comamonadaceae and flavobacteriaceae.

this study aimed to describe for the first time the wild state of the crocodile lizard gut microbiota as well as potential alterations in the composition of the gut microbiota of crocodile lizards with different diseases and diets compared with that in wild and healthy control subjects.the composition of the gut microbiota in crocodile lizards is unique.

however there is no sufficient evidence that the gut microbiota contributes to either disease a or disease b. these results provide a reference for the conservation of endangered crocodile lizards and the first insight into the relationship between disease and the gut microbiota in lizards.keywords wild and captive lizards disease diet gut microbiota shinisaurus crocodilurusintroductionthe crocodile lizard shinisaurus crocodilurus ahl 1930 is the only species in the monotypic genus shinisaurus and the monotypic family shinisauridae.

is the gut microbiota associated with disease susceptibility in crocodile lizards how does cultivation shape the gut microbiome of crocodile lizards to explore these questions and to facilitate the protection of this endangered species we analyzed the amplicon-based microbiome of cloacal swab samples from crocodile lizards using 16s rrna gene sequencing.

four samples had an extremely high abundance of mycoplasma and helicobacter .the ace and shannon indices of the wild crocodile lizard gut microbiota from luokeng nature reserve were significantly higher than that from daguishan nature reserve and supplementary tables 1 2. therefore both community richness and community diversity of the gut microbiota in wild crocodile lizards were different between distinct locations.comparison of gut microbial community diversity between groupsa comparison of alpha diversity indices between groups is presented in .

in the gut microbiota of other lizards the abundance of fusobacterium if any was very low similar to that of the wild group of crocodile lizards         .the loach-based diet resulted in the significant predominance of elizabethkingia halomonas morganella and salmonella in the crocodile lizard gut microbiota.

the high content of potential pathogenic bacteria in loach-fed group suggests that the diet of loach not only altered the structure of gut microbiota but also increased the risk of infection for crocodile lizards.conclusionthe composition of the crocodile lizard gut microbiota is unique compared with other animals.

the gut microbiota of loach- fed crocodile lizard was significantly different from the gut microbiota of the wild and the earthworm-fed crocodile lizards.

however there is no sufficient evidence that the gut microbiota contributes to either disease a or disease b.this study provides an overview of the gut microbiota of the crocodile lizard an extremely endangered lizard at different states as well as the first examination of the relationship between disease and the gut microbiota in lizards.

the gut microbiota in wild crocodile lizards was consistently dominated by proteobacteria 56.4 and bacteroidetes 19.1. however the abundance of firmicutes 2.6 in the intestine of the wild crocodile lizards was distinctly lower than that in other vertebrates.

we compared the gut microbiota of sick healthy captive and wild lizards to identify the interactions among specific diseases diets and the gut microbiota in crocodile lizards.materials and methodssample collectionall samples were collected from guangdong luokengs.

the significance between groupstable 1  sample information used in this study.groupsamplehealth conditionmajor dietlocationwlkwlk03healthywildguangdong luokeng shinisaurus crocodilurus national naturewlk06 wlk07 wlk08 wlk09 wlk10 wlk11reserve shaoguan city guangdong provincewdgwdg02healthywildguangxi daguishan crocodile lizard national nature reservewdg03 wdg05 wdg06 wdg07 wdg08 wdg09 wdg10hezhou city guangxi provinceslk clkslk16infected with disease a captive fed earthwormsguangdong luokeng shinisaurus crocodilurus national natureslk17 slk18 slk19 slk21reserve shaoguan city guangdong provincenlk clknlk22healthycaptive fed earthwormsguangdong luokeng shinisaurus crocodilurus national naturenlk23 nlk24 nlk25reserve shaoguan city guangdong provincesdg cdgsdg19infected with disease b captive fed loachesguangxi daguishan crocodile lizard national nature reservesdg31 sdg37hezhou city guangxi provincendg cdgndg28healthycaptive fed loachesguangxi daguishan crocodile lizard national nature reservendg35 ndg36hezhou city guangxi provincewas detected by turkey method.

however captivity had no effect on the community diversity of gut microbiota of crocodile lizards according to the shannon index.the effect of captivity in shaping of gut microbiota was also reflected in the enrichment of specific microbes.

here we examined the relationship between the gut microbiota and diet and disease by comparing the fecal microbiota of wild lizards with those of sick and healthy lizards in captivity.

however in daguishan nature reserve the wild crocodile lizard gut microbiota was dominated by helicobacteraceae mycoplasmataceae pseudomonadaceae and chitinophagaceae.

