increased gene transcripts attributable to firmicutes com- pared to bacteroidetes in squirrels consuming either high fat or high calorie diets.resultsbody compositionthe mean body mass within groups hf lf rd sd at t0 5-weeks post-hibernation did not differ from the meandifferences in rate of fattening to random variability between individual squirrels rather than an effect of diet treatment.

the gut microbial metatranscriptomes of squirrels on lf and rd diets for 5- weeks had lower relative abundances of firmicutes- and proteobacteria-associated transcripts and greater relative proportions of bacteroidetes- and verrucomicrobia-associ- ated transcripts as compared to hf squirrels fig.

3. hf squirrels contained a greater relative abundance of firmi- cutes-associated mrna and lower relative abundance of verrucomirobia-associated mrna in their gut than all squirrels fed any other diet fig.

the gut microbial metatranscriptome of hf squirrels had a greater relative abundance of transcripts associated with transla- tion ko level 2 specifically ribosome proteins ko level 3 subsystem supporting information table s4 and the majority of those transcripts were attributable to the phylum firmicutes and genera clostridium lactobacillus and eubacteria.short chain fatty acid concentrations and percent compositionacetate was the most abundant scfa comprising 65 of all scfas measured followed by butyrate 10.9-17.7 and propionate 10.6-14.0. the relative proportions of branched scfas iso-butyrate valerate and iso-valerate were lower than acetate butyrate and propionate sup- porting information table s3.neither cecal scfa concentration nor composition or ph differed across time but differences in scfa concen- trations but not ph were apparent among cecal contents sampled from squirrels on different diets supporting infor- mation table s3.

an unclassified genus of the family lachnospira- ceae positively correlated with the concentration of acetate and negatively correlated with the concentration of valerate in hf squirrels while the concentration of valerate was positively correlated with an unclassified genus of the fami- ly ruminococcaceae in rd squirrels.

additionally squirrels maintained on rd showed no difference in accumulated fat mass as compared to the sd treatment squirrels.

2008. the increase in flagellar assembly genes flge and flic supporting information table s3 in the rd group compared to other diet treatments may have enabled fattening to the same degree and rate as other treatments by increasing dietary substrate accessibility and facilitating host-microbe communication.the microbial metatranscriptome of hf squirrels was enriched in carbohydrate metabolism associated tran- scripts as compared to lf and rd squirrels.

for the first five weeks following hibernation we fed squirrels a standardized rodent chow diet ad libitum 18 60 and 22 energy from fat carbohydrates and protein respectively 3.0 kcalg chow chow id td.120766 harlan laboratories madison wi usa and determined individual daily caloric intake by averaging the dai- ly food consumption over the final three weeks post- hibernation week 3 4 and 5. five-weeks after ending hiber- nation t0 squirrels in the control group n 5 8 were euthanized for sample collection and analysis detailed below.

loren buck3 and khrystyne n. duddleston1 1university of alaska anchorage anchorage ak 99508 usa.2alaska native tribal health consortium anchorage ak 99508 usa.3northern arizona university flagstaff az 86011 usa.summarywe examined the effect of diet on pre-hibernation fat- tening and the gut microbiota of captive arctic ground squirrels urocitellus parryii.

squirrels fattened at the same rate and to the same degree on all diets.

our results demonstrate that pre-hibernation fattening of arctic ground squirrels is robust to changes in diet and is accomplished by more than increased food intake.

although our analy- ses did not uncover a definitive link between host fattening and the gut microbiota and suggest the squirrels may possess a gut microbial community structure that is unresponsive to dietary changes studies manipulating diet earlier in the active season may yet uncover a relationship between host diet fattening and gut microbiota.received 3 may 2016 revised 24 february 2017 accepted 24 february 2017. for correspondence e-mail knduddlestonalas- ka.edu tel.

arguably one of the most extreme examples of this is mammalian hibernation an adaptation to survive unfavourable conditions characterized by a state of low activity metabolic rate and body temperature tb lyman 1982. obligate seasonal hibernators such as ground squirrels annually undergo profound endogenously pro- grammed physiological and behavioral changes to conserve energy during hibernation and to increase endogenous energy reserves in preparation for hibernation dark 2005 williams et al.

2013.arctic ground squirrels urocitellus parryii serve as anexcellent model for studying the effects of diet and gut microbiota in hibernators.

2008 during which squirrels must compete for mates males only buck and barnes 2003 richter et al.

