although l. plantarum wcfs1-r is able to consume sucrose it is unlikely that sucrose utilization conferred a nutritional advantage to l. plantarum becausefigure 7. pathways specifically enriched in l. plantarum wcfs1-r fed mice during all dietary periods.

reuteri lactobacillus antri lactobacillus frumenti lactobacillus panis and lactobacillus oris lactobacillus gasseri cluster includes l. gasseri lactobacillus hominis lactobacillus johnsonii and lactobacillus taiwanensistable 1. lactobacillus species-specific real-time pcr primers used in the study.lactobacillus plantarum cluster includes l. plantarum lactobacillus fabifermentans lactobacillus paraplantarumand lactobacillus pentosus.lactobacillus species-specific quantitative pcr.genomic dna of l. plantarum wcfs1-r lactobacillus murinus asf 361 lactobacillus reuteri atcc 23272 and lactobacillus gasseri atcc 19992 were extracted using the dneasy blood  tissue kit qiagen inc. valencia ca usa quantified with the quant-it picogreen dsdna assay kit life technologies carlsbad ca usa.

however it remains to be determined the extent to which diet-associated intestinal behaviors of ingested and indigenous lactobacillus species are reversible and whether transient lactobacillus populations are integrated within the indigenous microbiome.in this study we hypothesized that the open ecological niche created for ingested l. plantarum by a hfhsd is reversible and that l. plantarum interactions with the intestinal microbiome are diet dependent.

black dashes indicate the days when the mice received l. plantarum wcfs1-r.resultshfhsd consistently increases the survival and persistence of l. plantarum in the gi tract.

viable l. plantarum was recovered in similar numbers from all stools 3 and 5 h after the first admin- istration of l. plantarum wcfs1-r during each of the dietary periods supplementary fig.

opposite to l. plantarum wcfs1-r the levels of indigenous lactobacillus species encompassing all otus assigned to that genus except for l. plantarum were lowest during hfhsd con- sumption and increased with the lfppd fig.

instead when l. plantarum was given to the animals during the two hfhsd periods l. plantarum constituted a higher percentage of the total lactobacillus population 41.9 and 55.9 for hfhsd1 and hfhsd2 respectively than during the lfppd 1.4 fig.

black dashes indicate the days when the mice received l. plantarum wcfs1-r.blast searches of the prominent lactobacillus otus present in the mouse stools identified l. plantarum as well as other taxa highly related to l. murinus l. reuteri and l. gasseri and here referred to as species clusters supplementary fig.

although we did not find such a relationship between l. plantarum and the indigenous lactobacilli the quantities of l. plantarum were strongly and positively correlated with other members of the firmicutes phylum including other lactic acid bacteria such as streptococcus fig.

therefore ros-tolerant l. plantarum wcfs1-r might have benefited in the hfhsd background by gaining access to oth- erwise limited resources previously utilized by indigenous lactobacilli.beyond the compensatory changes to lactobacillus numbers ingestion of l. plantarum wcfs1-r appears to have also exerted independent effects on the composition of the intestinal microbiota.

it is possible that this difference between the sham- and l. plantarum- fed groups was due to the previous contact of those animals with l. plantarum wcfs1 during hfhsd1.mice fed l. plantarum also contained altered metagenomes according to predictions with picrust.

lastly during the lfppd period even though l. plantarum constituted a small percentage of the bac- teria present in the distal gut mice fed l. plantarum wcfs1-r were predicted to contain increases in numbers of genes coding for cell motility and carbohydrate metabolism.

l. plantarum wcfs1 is a single colony isolate of l. plantarum ncimb 8826 a strain able to survive in the human gi tract.

fat and sucrose contributed 43 and 41 of the energy content of the hfhsd respectively supplementary table  and for the lfppd 13 energy was from fat and 67 energy from carbohydrates mainly consisting of plant-derived polysaccharides supplementary table .for comparisons to l. plantarum feeding eight out of 16 mice consumed 109 l. plantarum wcfs1-r per day for the last 5 days during each diet period and the remaining animals n 8 were sham fed with pbs in the same volume as used to deliver the bacterial culture fig.

freshly expelled stools were examined for culturable l. plantarum prior to l. plantarum administration at 0 h 3 h and 5 h after the first feeding and then every 24 h for the remainder of the dietary period fig.

