the inulin-induced decrease of firmicutes was reversed by the addition of pomx .among families with an average abundance 1 in at least one group pomx significantly increased the abundance of turici- bacteraceae genus turicibacter and ruminococcaceae genus oscillospira by 480 and 87 respectively compared to hfhs control d and e and supplementary table 4. inulin signifi- cantly increased the abundance of verrucomicrobiaceae genus akkermansia b and supplementary table 4 by 1112-fold and inhibited clostridiaceae by 98 g. the combination of pomx and inulin greatly increased the abundance of verrucomicrobiaceae genus akkermansia and rikenellaceae genus unclassified by 1003 and 21 fold respectively b and f. in addition bifidogenic effect genus bifidobacterium phylum actinobacter and inhibition of family s24-7 bacteroidales family were observed only with the pomx and inulin combined treatment a c and supplementary table 4. erysipelotrichaceae anaeroplasmataceae lactobacillaceae streptococcaceae and lachnospiraceae were not changed with pomx or inulin treatment h i j k and l. m shows 10 5 1 and 4 bacterial families were specifically enriched in hfhs hfhspomx hfhsinulin and hfhs pomx inulin respectively according to lefse analysis.

overall the combination of pomx and inulin showed different effect from pomx and inulin alone.effects of pomx and inulin on serum lps and mcp-1 levelsamong the 19 microbial kegg pathways regulated by inulin and pomx the specific pathway involved in infectious diseases was significantly enhanced with inulin supplementation a. therefore we determined the concentration of serum lps and mcp-1.

serum endotoxin lps and mcp-1 concentrations were increased significantly with the inulin supplementation b and c. this was reversed by feeding the inulin pomx diet b and c.effects of pomx and inulin on the expression of proinflammatory and intestinal tight junction genes in ileumwe used rt-qpcr to determine if the production ofproinflammatory cytokines and intestinal integrity were altered by pomx and inuslin treatment .

moreover pomx and inulin inhibited the growth of opportunistic taxa such as brevibacterium casei streptococcus  suggest a potential role of pomx and inulin in providing a favorable condition for optimal gut microbiota composition.principal coordinates analysis of weighted and unweightedunifrac distances revealed a distinct separation in beta diversity of gut microbial communities among inulin pomx and control groups.

in future study we plan to study the effects of pomx and inulin in bacterial translocation bt and determine if bt leads to the observed increase of circulating mcp-1 and lps in the mice fed with 9 inulin.one limiting factor of our study is that we only used one dose of inulin 9 and pomx 0.25. the pomx and inulin mouse doses are about 20 higher than the doses reported for human con- sumption .

further studies using lower inulin and pomx doses are needed to understand the safety dose range of the pomx and prebiotic inulin under different physiological condition.conclusionour study demonstrated that the taxonomic shift due to inulin supplementation was reversed by the dietary combination of inulin with pomx.

male c57bl6 mice were randomly divided into four experimental groups and consumed either high-fathigh-sucrose hfhs 32 energy from fat 25 energy from sucrose 17 energy from protein diet hfhs diet supplemented with pomx 0.25 or inulin 9 or pomx and inulin in combination for 4 weeks.

we therefore also examined serum lps and mcp-1 levels in mice fed with hfhs diet hfhs dietsupplemented with pomx 0.25 or inulin 9 or pomx and inulin in combination.

we also investigated the effect of pomx and inulin on blood and tissue cholesterol and demonstrated additive effects of pomx and inulin in lowering blood and liver cholesterol j nutr biochem in review.materials and methodschemical reagents and plant materialsall solvents were hplc grade from fisher scientific tustin ca usa.

pomegranate extract pomx was purchased from pom wonderful los angeles ca usa and hplc analysis of the ella- gitannin contents of pomx is shown in supplementary table 1  providing ets at 382 mgg.

after 1 week of acclimatization the mice were divided into four groups n 6 with similar body weight distribution in each group and fed either with high fat hfhigh sucrose hs diet d12266b or hfhs diets supplemented 0.25 pomx 9 inulin or 0.25 pomx combined with 9 inulin supplementary table 2. the supplements were mix into the hfhs diet by research diets inc. to compare the mouse dose to human dose we considered the following facts.

in our study mice were fed 0.25 pomx andor 9 inulin providing approximate 248 mgkg pomx and 8.9 gkg inulin.

p values  0.05 were considered statistically significant.resultseffects of pomx and inulin on gut microbiotabody weight of mice fed the diet supplemented with pomx inulin or both was not changed significantly supplementary fig.

compared to control mice fed the hfhs diet signif- icant changes were found for 3 phyla 10 families 25 genera and 29 species in pomx treated mice 4 phyla 10 families 26 genera and 35 species in inulin treated mice and 4 phyla 13 families 29 genera and 39 species in mice received pomx and inulin combined treat- ment   and supplementary tables 4e6.on the phylum level inulin supplementation increased verru- comicrobia by 1113-fold and significantly decreased the abundance of firmicutes fusobacteria and proteobacteria compared to the hf hs control .

more detailed analysis at genus and species levels are shown in the supplementary tables 5 and 6.effects of pomx and inulin on diversity of microbiotaalpha diversity analyses were performed to determine how pomx and inulin alone or in combination affected the gut micro- biota of each mouse after 4-week dietary intervention.

