for example commensal bacteria areabbreviations aa arachidonic acid dc dendritic cell dha docosahexaenoic acid epa eicosapentaenoic acid fao fatty acid oxidation fp formylpterin gpr g-protein-coupled receptor iec intestinal epithelial cell il interleukin lcfa long-chain fatty acid mait mucosal-associated invariant t cell mr1 mhc-like protein 1 pd1 protectin d1 ppar peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor rv resolving scfa short-chain fatty acid tca tricarboxylic acid tlr toll-like receptor tnf tumor necrosis factor tx thromboxane.involved in the extraction synthesis and absorption of many nutrients and metabolites including short- and lcfas and vitamins  .in this review we describe recent findings regarding the role of the gut microbiome-diet interaction in the generation of immunologically active metabolites.long-chain fatty acids in the control of immune responsesfatty acids are an essential nutrient that is mainly obtained from the diet.

67 391-340.miyamoto j. mizukure t. park s. b. kishino s. kimura i. hirano k. et al.

of note these lipid metabolites are detected not only in the intestinal lumen but also in the serum suggesting that these microbial lipid metabolites act both in the intestinal lumen and elsewhere in the body.administration of 10-hydroxy-cis-12-octadecenoic acid one of the microbial lipid metabolites has been reported to ameliorate experimental colitis by enhancing tight junctions on epithelial cells.

in this review we describe how dietary and microbial metabolites modulate host immunity.keywords microbiome metabolite fatty acid vitaminintroductionmucosal surfaces especially that of the gastrointestinal tract are constantly exposed to a wide variety of antigens including trillions of bacteria and fungi as well as dietary components and their metabolites.

understanding the integrated mechanisms by which diet microbiota and metabolites influence the function of the immune system would be an interesting topic for future study that could provide new strategies for the control of immune and infectious diseases.author contributionsall authors listed have made a substantial direct and intellectual contribution to the work and approved it for publication.acknowledgmentsthis review article contains results obtained from our studies that were supported at least in part by grants from the core research for evolutional science and technology program of the japan agency for medical research and development hk by the ministry of education culture sports science and technology of japan grants-in-aid for scientific research s hk 23229004 for scientific research b jk 26293111 for scientific research on innovative areas jk 16h01373 for young scientists b ns 17k17686 and for a jsps research fellow ns 17j07480 by the practical researchproject for allergic diseases and immunology research on allergic diseases and immunology and for the research on development of new drugs adjuvant database project from the japan agency for medical research and development amed jk and hk and by the ministry of health labour and welfare mhlw jk by the science and technology research promotion program for agriculture forestry fisheries and food industry jk and by the astellas foundation for research on metabolic disorders jk the public health research foundation for public health science ns the terumo foundation for life science and arts jk and the suzuken memorial foundation jk.referencesare a. aronsson l. wang s. greicius g. lee y. k. gustafsson j. a. et al.

5 104-112. kishino s. takeuchi m. park s. b. hirata a. kitamura n. kunisawa j. et al.

nature 484 524-528. claus s. p. tsang t. m. wang y. cloarec o. skordi e. martin f. p. et al.

58 247-253. furusawa y. obata y. fukuda s. endo t. a. nakato g. takahashi d. et al.

7 90-98. macia l. tan j. vieira a. t. leach k. stanley d. luong s. et al.

immunity 41 478-492. patel o. kjer-nielsen l. le nours j. eckle s. b. birkinshaw r. beddoe t. et al.

74 1503-1509. kunisawa j. arita m. hayasaka t. harada t. iwamoto r. nagasawa r. et al.

drug targets 15 25-30. kunisawa j. sugiura y. wake t. nagatake t. suzuki h. nagasawa r. et al.

given that germ-free mice have increased levels of endogenous rvd1 and pd1 in their colon   these reports suggest that microbial suppression of rvd1 and pd1 production may be involved in the regulation of the host immune defense against invading pathogens.short-chain fatty acids in the control of immune responsesshort-chain fatty acids are present at high concentrations in the intestine as bacterial fermentation products of dietary indigestible polysaccharides such as cellulose   .

nature 504 446-450. gurav a. sivaprakasam s. bhutia y. d. boettger t. singh n. and ganapathy v. 2015. slc5a8 a na-coupled high-affinity transporter for short-chain fatty acids is a conditional tumour suppressor in colon that protects against colitis and colon cancer under low-fibre dietary conditions.

nature 391 79-82. sakurai t. miyazawa s. furuta s. and hashimoto t. 1982. riboflavin deficiency and beta-oxidation systems in rat liver.

