indeed a positive association between obesity and allergy is well documented in epidemiological studies - as well as in animal models of allergy -.

finally monounsaturated fatty acids are also candidates as they constitute a major component of high fat diets although their immunomodulatory potential in the context of allergy remains unexplored.overall high fat diet may influence susceptibility to allergy through obesity or directly through nutritional composition.

allergy 2001 56 425-428.  bolte g. frye c. hoelscher b. meyer i. wjst m. heinrich j. margarine consumption and allergy in children.

which aspects of the farming lifestyle explain the inverse association with childhood allergy j. allergy clin.

41-021-314-1388 received 10 april 2017 accepted 19 may 2017 published 24 may 2017abstract from an evolutionary standpoint allergy has only recently emerged as a significant health problem.

finally we reason that future studies unraveling mechanisms governing these changes along with the development of better tools to manipulate microbiota composition in individuals will be crucial for the design of novel strategies to combat numerous inflammatory disorders including atopic diseases.keywords western diet nutrients allergy microbiotaintroductionallergy is one of the leading health problems in industrialized countries affecting around 50 million people in the united states alone and the number of atopic individuals continues to grow.

these data were backed-up by several other groups studying asthma in both adults and children - and although their conclusions were not consistently supported - they pioneered the notion that diet may influence development of allergy.

however trials to control asthma progression via dietary vitamin c supplementation brought disappointing results questioning the significance of vitamin c in allergy prevention .

considering this we are describing the relationship between milk consumption and allergy in a separate paragraph starting with the intake of milk from breastfeeding mothers in infancy followed by consumption of unpasteurized milk.breastfeedingbreastfeeding is one of the few features linking dietary habits of people today with that of our evolutionary ancestors.

for this reason raw milk consumption is not a general solution for allergy prevention.

the possible importance of grp41 and gpr43 in triggering anti-inflammatory mechanisms downstream of fiber intake will be discussed in detail in the next chapter.in conclusion various nutrients have been proposed in the past to influence risk for allergy development and many epidemiological studies have been launched to investigate their impact.

in the next section we will discuss the potential role for dietary fiber intake in protection against diseases including allergy based on experimental data using mouse models.dietary fiber short-chain fatty acids and susceptibility to diseases lessons learned from animal studiesanti-inflammatory properties of butyrate a short-chain fatty acid produced by fermentation of soluble fibers by commensal bacteria in the gut have long been recognized.

finally gpr109a has been reported as a low-affinity receptor for one of the short chain fatty acids butyrate  and the physiological importance of this finding has been demonstrated in a mouse model of colitis  and food allergy .regardless of the surface receptor responsible for the initial recognition of short-chain fatty acids many studies have focused on downstream mechanisms mediating their anti-inflammatory properties.

first they noted that high fiber diet which protected mice against peanut allergy changed intestinal microbiota composition and increased levels of scfa.

in order to dissect the impact of these two factors they re-colonized germ-free mice with fecal matter from mice fed on low-fiber or high fiber diets and showed that the latter were protected against peanut allergy despite having similar levels of scfa.

