conversely if ecological factors were more important for the composition of the persistent termite gut microbiome microbiomes should align more strongly with ecology than host phylogeny.resultswe profiled the protist and bacterial communities of two wood-dwelling species from the kalotermitidae cryptotermes secundus cryptotermes domesticus a wood-dwelling species from the rhinotermitidae prorhinotermes simplex that dwells in dead logs in coastal areas and two rhinotermitidae species that switched from the ancestral wood-dwelling life type to foraging reticulitermes flavipes reticulitermes grassei figure 1. given the substantial variation of microbial communities between different colonies reported previously hongoh et al.

2015. the contribution of diet to gut microbiome structure is larger in higher termites that have lost the protist part of their gut microbiome but adapted to more diverse diets he et al.

during their lifetime before collection persisted in the gut the average gut retention time of 24-26 h in termites breznak 1984 li et al.

in order to control for the varying contributions of transient microbes to the gut community due to different diet sources we developed a setup to study diverse termite species under common conditions in the laboratory by keeping all termites on pinus wood for at least several weeks before the start of the experiment.

at this point the influence of genotypic variation within distinct termite species and how it contributes to gut microbiome diversity remain to be investigated.conclusionwe assessed termite gut protist and bacterial community composition across a set of termite hosts in a laboratory based setup controlling environment and diet.

82518. doi the gut microbiome of lower termites comprises protists and bacteria that help these insects to digest cellulose and to thrive on wood.

42 313-318. doi brune a. and dietrich c. 2015. the gut microbiota of termites digesting the diversity in the light of ecology and evolution.

4 203-208. doi donovan s. e. eggleton p. and bignell d. e. 2001. gut content analysis and a new feeding group classification of termites.

15 505-516. doi huang x. f. bakker m. g. judd t. m. reardon k. f. and vivanco j. m. 2013. variations in diversity and richness of gut bacterial communities of termites reticulitermes flavipes fed with grassy and woody plant substrates.

40 323-335. doi noda s. hongoh y. sato t. and ohkuma m. 2009. complex coevolutionary history of symbiotic bacteroidales bacteria of various protists in the gut of termites.

69 625-633. doi ohkuma m. 2008. symbioses of flagellates and prokaryotes in the gut of lower termites.

the species differed in their ecology while three of the investigated species were wood-dwellers that feed on the piece of wood they live in and never leave except for the mating flight the other two species were foragers that regularly leave their nests to forage for food.

of note neither the two reticulitermes species nor the cryptotermes species are sister species thompson et al.

2014. since the split of termites from cockroaches lower termites have diversified and adapted to a variety of environments eggleton and tayasu 2001 life types abe 1987 and diets donovan et al.

also the soil on which foraging termites search for food and tunnel into can contain 5000 times more microbes than even the nests of damp-wood-dwelling termites 800 colony forming units rosengaus et al.

