articledifferences in the bacteriome of smokeless tobacco products with different oral carcinogenicity compositional and predicted functional analysisnezar noor al-hebshi 12 fahd ali alharbi 3 mohammed mahri 1 and tsute chen 4department of maxillofacial surgery and diagnostic sciences college of dentistry jazan university 45142 jazan saudi arabia kornberg school of dentistry temple university 3223 n board street philadelphia pa 19140 usaotolaryngology--head and neck surgery department faculty of medicine jazan university 45142 jazan saudi arabia department of microbiology forsyth institute cambridge ma 02142 usa correspondence academic editor thierry wirthreceived 22 december 2016 accepted 17 march 2017 published 23 march 2017abstract smokeless tobacco st products vary significantly in their oral carcinogenicity.

in addition bacillus species recovered from chewing tobacco have been shown to experimentally induce exudation from oral mucosa  suggesting that bacteria in st products may also directly contribute to development of oral cancer by inducing chronic inflammation .

the relevance of these differences particularly with respect to nickel and cadmium to oral carcinogenesis warrants further investigation.keywords bacteria bacteriome carcinoma microbiome mouth smokeless snuff tobaccointroductionsmokeless tobacco st refers to forms of tobacco products that are used without burning.

secondly the high quality reads were aligned using needleman's method to silva reference alignment  and those with bad alignment reads with start and end positions different than those of the majority of the reads were removed.

finally the remaining reads were cleared of chimeras with uchime  using the self-reference approach in which each read is checked against reads with higher abundance in the same sample .taxonomy assignment algorithmthe high quality non-chimeric reads were classified to the species level employing the blastn-based algorithm illustrated in figure .

on the contrary strong association has been reported from other parts of the world between oral cancers and use of certain types of st including toombak and saffa in sudan - shammah in yemen and the south of saudi arabia - and almost all forms of chewing tobacco in india .

using the alternative classification pipeline wang's method a significant proportion of the reads in some samples were unclassified at the genus level however for reads that returned genus-level taxonomies the results were comparable to that obtained by the blastn pipeline see supplementary figure s3.figure 6. bacteriome of the st products--genus level.

in the current study we characterize the species composition and predict the functional attributes of the bacterial community in st products with different carcinogenicity namely samples of american moist snuff swedish snus sudanese toombak and yemeni shammah.materials and methodssmokeless tobacco products--dna extractioneleven ready-to-use st products were included in the study as follows four brands of american moist snuff coded as a1-a4 three brands of swedish snus coded as s1-s3 a sample of sudanese toombak sut and samples of three types of yemeni shammah namely black yellow and green shammah bs ys and gs respectively.

isolation and characterization of the novel species from yemeni shammah and sut is therefore warranted not only to ascertain their ability to accumulate nitrites but also to assess their direct effects on oral epithelium.differences in predicted functions between the presumptively low carcinogenicity and high carcinogenicity products at the pathway level did not seem to be relevant to oral carcinogenesis.

suleiman a.m. viral infection and oral habits as risk factors for oral squamous cell carcinoma in yemen a case-control study.

briefly reads were individually blastn-searched against ncbi's microbial 16s rrna gene reference sequence set   supplemented with a modified version of the greengenes gold set modified-ggg  and the human oral microbiome database homd version 14.5 .

nasher a.t. idris a.m. chen t. robust species taxonomy assignment algorithm for 16s rrna ngs reads application to oral carcinoma samples.

finally sequencing of the indexed library was performed as part of a pool of 192 samples employing the v3 2 x 300 bp chemistry on a miseq platform illumina usa according to the manufacturer's protocol targeted depth of 100000 reads pre sample.preprocessing of sequencing datathe raw data were submitted to sequence reads archive sra under project no prjna339213.

a blastn-based algorithm used to classify the reads to the species level and perform down-stream biological observation matrix biom analysis.down-stream biological observation matrix analysisall assigned reads unique species multispecies and potentially novel species were used to generate species-level biological observation matrix biom table for down-stream analysis with qiime quantitative insights into microbial ecology software package version 1.9.1 .

in the current study however rarefaction was used only to normalize counts for calculation of coverage and diversity indices the complete microbiome was employed in assessing differential abundance and performing the functional analysis.by sequencing the v1-v3 region with illumina's 2 x 300 paired-end chemistry and merging the resultant reads relatively long reads 472-562 bp were generated which improved taxonomic resolution.

