these beneficial effects were confirmed after macroscopic evaluation of the colon since there was a significant reduction in the weightlength ratio in probiotic-treated colitic mice ina2.01.51.00.50.0mmp-2bmmp-9543210c1.51.00.50.0muc-2non dss l.fl.snon dss l.fl.snon dss l.fl.scolitic controldmuc-31.5aae1.5colitic controloccludinacolitic controlfzo-11.5aa1.00.5b0.01.00.50.0cc1.0b0.50.0abbfigure 2. effects of lactobacillus fermentuml.f and lactobacillus salivarius l.s 5 xnon dss l.f colitic controlg43210l.snon dss colitic controll.fl.snon dss colitic controll.fl.s108 cfumouseday in dss mouse colitis on mrna expression of matrix metalloproteinasesa mmp-2 and b mmp-9 epithelial integrity pro- teins mucins c muc-2 and d muc-3 e oc- cludin and f zonula occludens-1 zo-1.

elena rodr'iguez-cabezas1 and julio ga' lvez11 ciber-ehd department of pharmacology ibs.granada center for biomedical research cibm university of granada granada spain2 department of microbiology ibs.granada complejo hospitalario universitario de granada ibs.granadagranada spain3 research department of biosearch granada spainscope to compare the intestinal anti-inflammatory effects of two probiotics lactobacillus fermentum and lactobacillus salivarius in mouse colitis focusing on their impact on selected mirnas and microbiota composition.methods and results male c57bl6j mice were randomly assigned to four groups n  10 non- colitic dss colitic and two colitic groups treated with probiotics 5 x 108 cfumouseday.

it is interesting to point out that so far only a few studies have reported a correlation between the beneficial effects of probiotics and the modulation of mirnas expres- sion although these mediators are now considered relevant in these intestinal conditions 76.in accordance with previous studies 77 78 the intesti- nal anti-inflammatory effects exerted by both probiotics were associated with amelioration of the altered gut microbiota composition observed in colitic mice.

a. r.-n. n.c. and f.g. contributed to the analysis and interpretation of data of taxonomic analysis a. r.- n. f. a. m. p. u. m. e. r.-c and j. g. designed the experiments and wrote the manuscript.this work was supported by the junta de andaluc'ia cts 164 and by the spanish ministry of economy and competitiveness saf2011-29648 and agl2015-67995-c3-3-r with funds from the european union.

it consists of two major forms crohn's disease cddehydrogenase ibd inflammatory bowel disease mmp matrix metalloproteinases mlns mesenteric lymph nodes mg-rast metagenomics analysis server mirnas micro-rnas no ni- tric oxide ocln occludin pca principal coordinated analysisrdp ribosomal database project scfas short chain fatty acids stamp statistical analysis of metagenomic profiles uc ulcera- tive colitis zo zonula occludensand ulcerative colitis uc 1. although their aetiology is not yet entirely understood preclinical and clinical studies agree that ibd is the result of the combined effects of several fac- tors like multiple genetic variations environmental changes and the abnormal reactivity of the immune system of the gut mucosa to otherwise innocuous luminal antigens 2. in this regard it has been proposed that alterations in profiles and functions of gut microbiota known as dysbiosis clearly con- tribute to the onset of human ibd 3. although the mech- anisms involved in this process are not fully elucidated it has been proposed that an initial breakdown of the epithelial integrity could facilitate the access of certain invasive bac- teria to the mucosa which could promote effector immune responses and inflammation resulting in severe tissue dam- age 4. this altered immune response is associated with an increased production of pro-inflammatory mediators includ- ing cytokines chemokines and adhesion molecules which orchestrate the activity of both the innate and the adaptive immune systems thus contributing to the development of the inflammatory status in the gut 5. more recently the role of micro-rnas mirnas as regulators of different pathways of the innate andor adaptive immune responses has been reported 6. mirnas are short strands of non-coding rna about 22 nucleotides long encoded in the genomic dna which can post-transcriptionally regulate target gene expres- sion thus controlling important cellular functions including differentiation proliferation signal transduction and apopto- sis and tuning optimal host-commensal interactions in the intestinal tract 7-9. in fact it has been described that gut mi- crobiota regulates the expression of mirnas in the host 10. although the mechanisms involved are not clear they seem to include the activation of pattern recognition receptors by microbial components like toll-like receptors and the pro- duction of metabolites like the short chain fatty acid scfa butyrate 11 12. several studies have linked the impairment of these mirna-driven processes to the development of ibd 6 13 14 and an altered profile of mirnas expression in ibd patients in comparison to healthy patients as well as in experimental colitis has been reported 1516. in this regard the modified expression of certain mirnas including mir- 21 mir-122a mir-155 or mir-150 has been correlated to an increased intestinal epithelial permeability due to changes in the structure andor function of the tight junction pro- teins 17 18. similarly alterations in other mirnas like mir-124 mir-126 mir-146a or mir-155 have been associ- ated with a misbalance in the innate and adaptive immune responses in the inflamed gut 19-21. moreover the dysbio- sis may be crucial in ibd pathogenesis and may account for the immune imbalance that triggers the intestinal inflamma- tory response 22. in consequence and considering the role ascribed to mirnas in maintaining gut immune homeosta- sis they could also be involved in the interaction between luminal bacteria and the host mucosal immune response in inflammatory conditions 23.nowadays there are different pharmacological strategiesto down-regulate the exaggerated immune response in ibdpatients including administration of immuno-suppressants andor biologicals 24. however although they have proven clinical efficacy this may be limited and some of them may also present important side effects which restricts their chronic administration 25. for this reason many ibd pa- tients look for complementary therapies that could improve the efficacy and safety of their pharmacological treatments like nutritional supplements including probiotics 26 27. so far the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of pro- biotics in these intestinal conditions have not been fully iden- tified but they appear to be multifactorial involving epithelial barrier function enhancement host-microbial homeostasis and modulation of the immune system 28. however al- though probiotics are supposed to ameliorate dysbiosis few studies have evaluated their impact on the restoration of the microbiota composition in intestinal inflammation.

the improvement of the epithelial barrier function could contribute to the recov- ery of the colonic damage as it has been previously reported for other probiotics in these intestinal conditions 56 57.in order to better characterize the intestinal anti-inflammatory effects of these probiotics their impact on colonic mirna expression was evaluated and correlated to modifications in microbiota composition.it is well described that mirnas are involved in several biological processes including development cell differentia- tion proliferation and apoptosis 7-9 furthermore it is es- timated that mirnas may be responsible for regulating the expression of nearly one-third of the genes in the human genome 58. thus mirna deregulation often results in an impaired cellular function together with a disturbance of the downstream gene regulation and signalling cascades thus suggesting their implication in disease aetiology 59. actu- ally their participation has been documented in almost all pathologies including those affecting the cardiovascular sys- tem metabolic ailments neurological disorders infectious diseases as well as in cancer and inflammation like human ibd 60 61. based on a preliminary assay to characterize the expression of some mirnas in this model five mirnas were selected to evaluate the intestinal anti-inflammatory effect ofboth probiotics.

nat rev gastroenterol hepatol 2011 8 523-531.gareau m. g. sherman p. m. walker w. a. probiotics and the gut microbiota in intestinal health and disease.

2011 55 1441-1453.plaza-diaz j. ruiz-ojeda f. j. vilchez-padial l. m. gil a. evidence of the anti-inflammatory effects of probiotics and synbiotics in intestinal chronic diseases.

even though their biological activities are different they display common mechanisms like production of antimicrobial substances and immuno-modulatory properties 30-36. the present study has compared the intestinal anti-inflammatory effects of these two probiotics in the dextran sulphate sodium dss model of mouse colitis an experimental model widely used in preclinical assays for the study of new potential treat- ments for human ibd 28. it has focused on the im- munomodulatory properties of these probiotics including their impact on some mirnas involved in the intestinal in- flammatory process as well as their ability to improve gut dysbiosis.materials  methodsall chemicals were purchased from sigma-aldrich chemi- cal madrid spain unless otherwise stated.

we hypothesize that the beneficial effects of probiotics in intestinal inflamma- tion could depend on their modulation of mirnas expression since they are key players in the maintenance of gut immune homeostasis 7-9 which appears compromised in intestinal inflammation 22.lactobacillus fermentum cect5716 and lactobacillus sali-varius cect5713 are two probiotics originally isolated from human breast milk that have been described to exert bene- ficial effects in experimental models of colitis.

of note this ratio is considered as an index of the colonic oedema that appears during the inflammatory process and it is directly related to the severity of the colonic damage induced by dss 40.furthermore the intestinal anti-inflammatory effects ex- erted by these probiotics were confirmed when the expression of the different inflammatory markers was assessed thus re- vealing an improvement in the altered colonic immune re- sponse induced by dss.

with these aims two probiotics were assayed in the dss model of colitisfigure 5. effects of lactobacillus fermentum l.f and lactobacil- lus salivarius l.s 5 x 108 cfumouseday in dss mouse coli- tis on microbiota composition.

in this regard when the colonic inflammatory sta- tus was evaluated biochemically both probiotics were ableto restore the altered expression of il-1 and tgf- whilefigure 6. effects of lactobacillus fermentum l.f and lactobacil- lus salivarius l.s 5 x 108 cfumouseday in dss mouse colitis on a the mean percentage of sequences of the modified genera in dss model and b the mean percentage of sequences of bac- terial populations associated with the production of scfas and lactic acid.

these results corroboratenon coliticdsscontroll.fl.sthe immunomodulatory properties ascribed to probiotics that account for their beneficial effects in intestinal inflamma- tion 47. of note these cytokines are considered important inflammatory mediators of the innate andor adaptive im- munity with a key role in driving intestinal inflammation 48 and inos is described as the main source of nitric ox-figure 7. effects of lactobacillus fermentum l.f and lactobacil- lus salivarius l.s 5 x 108 cfumouseday in dss mouse colitis on treg cell population from mlns.

of note when probiotics were administered to colitic mice the pca plot showed marked differences innon coliticdsscontroll.fl.snon coliticdsscontroll.fl.scomparison with the colitic control group being more sim-ilar to the non-colitic mice fig.

