no differences in lesion severitywere detected between male and female mice in any of the gm groups examined.to determine if these findings were unique to the il-10-- model on a c57bl6 genetic background c3h il-10-- embryos were implanted in surrogate dams from the same vendors as used in the b6 il-10-- experiment.

while these models are largely useful for the study of specific gm populations they are by definition restricted in gm complexity and do not fully recapitulate the complexity of the human gm.helicobacter-inoculated il-10-- mice provide an attractive animal model in which to study the role of complex gm communities for several reasons.

these findings suggest that the composition of the resident gm is a primary determinant of disease severity in ibd and provide proof-of-concept that cmtr can be used to investigate the contribution of contemporary complex gm on disease phenotype and reproducibility.keywords gut microbiota gm complex microbiota targeted rederivation cmtr inflammatory bowel disease il-10-- mouse model 16s rrna v4 next generation sequencing disease phenotype mouse modelsintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd is a multifactorial disease thought to involve a complex interaction between genetic and environmental factors leading to aberrant immune responses to normally innocuous microbes zhang and li 2014 de souza and fiocchi 2016. two known primary forms of disease exist ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease cd which share many clinical symptoms and are characterized by chronic relapsing inflammation affecting the gastrointestinal gi tract.

we surgically implanted genetically identical embryos collected from il- 10-- mice into surrogate dams harboring different gm varying in composition and complexity to produce il-10-- pups colonized with the desired maternal gm profiles.

in addition we found that in both b6 and c3h il-10-- mice there was a greater relative abundance of phylum proteobacteria in the gmjax and gmtac profiles and greater relative abundance of genus sutterella genus bilophila and family enterobacteriaceae in the b6 il-10-- mice and genus sutterella in the c3h il- 10-- mice.

with recent studies suggesting variation in naturally occurring gm composition and complexity among mouse producers we hypothesized that differences in these naturally occurring complex gm profiles may modulate disease severity in the il-10-- mouse model.

in the c3h il-10-- model independent clustering of gmcrl was noted while gmtac and gmjax clustered closely together indicating greater compositional similarity between the latter two groups figure 2d table 1. the gmcrl and gmtac groups demonstrated tight intra-group clustering along pc2 with gmjax mice having increased intra-group variability along pc2.differences in phylum and otu relative abundance between gm profilesto identify specific microbial taxa that correlate with resistanceor susceptibility to disease relative abundance of the microbiota at both the phylum and otu level was compared between gm profiles.

statistical testing for differences in beta- diversity was performed via permanova implemented using past 3.12.resultsil-10-- mice with gmcrl have decreased typhlocolitis severityin order to determine the impact of differing complex gm communities on disease severity b6 il-10-- embryos were transferred to surrogate dams purchased from three different vendors figure s1.

using these methods we show that the gm of surrogate dam greatly influences colonic and cecal disease phenotype in both the b6il-10-- and c3h il-10-- mouse models.

to test this hypothesis we use a technique referred to as complex microbiota targeted rederivation cmtr to transfer genetically identical c57bl6 il-10-- and c3hhejbir il-10-- embryos into surrogate cd-1 or c57bl6 dams from different commercial producers with varying microbiota complexity and composition.

embryos from 8 week-old female b6.129p2- il10tm1cgnj b6 il-10-- and c3bir.129p2b6-il10tm1cgnj c3h il-10-- the jackson laboratory mice were harvested from colonies maintained on site.

in both b6 il-10-- figure 5a and c3h il-10-- figure 5b mice mice colonized with gmcrl had significantly lower relative abundance of h. hepaticus than mic colonized with gmjax or gmtac.

schematic diagram showing embryo transfer scheme used to generate b6.129p2-il10tm1cgnj b6 il-10-- and c3bir.129p2b6-il10tm1cgnj c3h il-10-- pups to crlcd1gmcrl c57bl6jgmjax  c57bl6ntacgmtac surrogate dams.

b otu legend for figure 8b.table s1  statistical comparison of the relative abundance of phyla between rederivation groups within the b6 il-10-- and c3h il-10-- models.

again no differences were found in lesion severity between males and females in the gm groups examined.diversity and composition of gm profiles differ following disease onsetto evaluate the contribution of the gm in the differential disease severity observed between mice cecal contents were characterized via sequencing of the v4 hypervariable region of the 16s rrna gene.

