criteria for physical exercise were as follows seden- tary women who did not perform the minimal exercise established as healthy by who ie 3 days of exercise per week for 30 minutes at a moderate intensity  and for active women those who performed at least 3 hours of physical exercise per week.

nevertheless in the human study  the large difference between diets of ath- letes and healthy controls differences in energy carbohydrates both complex and simple protein fat and fiber makes it difficult to isolate the effects of exercise against other divergent factors.the main objective of the present work was to perform an observational study comparing the composition of the gut microbiota between individuals who did not practice any physical exercise and those who at the very least practiced exercise at the minimun dose recommended by the world health organization who .

accordingly forced exercise increased microbiota richness in obese hypertensive and normal rats which was dependent on their physiological state .additionally alterations to the microbiota exerted by exercise in rats on high-fat diet were different to those produced in rats on normal diet  and those produced in diabetic mice were different to those produced in their control counterparts .

one area where physical exercise may have beneficial effects is the gut microbiota an environmental factor whose imbalance or dysbiosis is associated with various types of diseases including inflamma- tory bowel disease ibd colon cancer cardiovascular diseases and diabetes among others.we sought to test whether exercise practiced at a dose recommended by who was sufficient to alter the composition of the gut microbiota in women.

this discrepancy in findings may reflect different factors such as the modal- ity of exercise voluntary or forced intensity and time in life when exercise is performed .

in a study comparing voluntary versus forced exercise on gut microbiota forced exer- cise was found to produce more marked effects on microbiota diversity than voluntary exercise .

although we failed to find an increase in microbiota richness we found an inverse association between sedentary param- eters and microbiota richness number of species and shannon and simpson indices which might indicate that perhaps not only is the dose and mode of exercise important but also the pattern of exercise such as breaks in sedentary time avoiding long periods of inactivity in daily life to induce changes in gut microbiota.supporting informations1 fig.

medicine and science in sports and exercise 30 777-781. pmidklindworth a pruesse e schweer t peplies j quast c horn m et al.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of thephysical exercise is a tool to prevent and treat some of the chronic diseases affecting the world's population.

a mechanism through which exercise could exert beneficial effects in the body is by provoking alterations to the gut microbiota an environmental factor that in recent years has been associated with numerous chronic diseases.

here we show that physical exercise performed by women to at least the degree recommended by the world health organization can modify the composition of gut microbiota.

in summary we provide the first demonstration of interdependence between some bacterial genera and sedentary behavior parameters and show that not only does the dose and type of exercise influence the composition of gut microbiota but also the breaking of sedentary behavior.

physical exercise is a powerful preventative and treatment intervention that is known to be effective in generating metabolic and immune health benefits .

accordingly the role of gut microbiota in determining host health and development of disease has been gaining interest in the last decade howevercollection and analysis decision to publish or preparation of the manuscript.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.whether gut microbiota is a target for the therapeutic benefits of exercise remains unknown .dysbiosis or imbalance in gut microbiota has been associated with many diseases among which are ulcerative colitis crohn's disease colon cancer  metabolic syndrome  type i and type ii diabetes  cardiovascular disease  allergy asthma eczema and autism .

although a total of 207 factors were evaluated in this work physical exercise as a factor that may influence gut microbiota com- position was not evaluated.

