cytoplasmic proteins were detected in high numbers and did not differ significantly between the two groups 26.7 crs and 21.5 healthy.elevated proteins in crsthe seven significantly higher proteins in the crs cohort accounted for 14.5 of total average itraq signal table 2. occurrence of these proteins within individuals in the cohort varied as shown in table 2. isoform three of protein prrc2c involved in hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation was one of the seven elevated proteins observed in the crs cohort.

moreover it is highly likely that proteins present within the mucus have specific protective functions that when altered could play an important role in the pathophysiology of crs al badaai et al.

there were no significant differences between the two cohorts crs and healthy controls for any of the measured variables table 1. nasal polyposis was observed in 40 410 of the crs patients.proteomicsa total of 606 proteins were identified of which 111 18 were significantly different in abundance between the groups p  0.05. the overwhelming majority of these 104 proteins were significantly less abundant in the crs group with only seven proteins significantly higher in crs samples table 2. the average abundance of these significantly different proteins in healthy and crs cohorts accounted for 23 and 24 of total protein signal respectively.

this suggests that the majority of detected proteins 495 out of 606 identified proteins arenot relevant to disease status and these accounted for a total average abundance of 75. proteins were also put through a blast search to look for possible hits with putative crs pathogens staphylococcus aureus or members of the genera corynebacterium and haemophilus but no matches were found.origin of proteinsthe 606 identified proteins were placed into four categories related to their origin blood epithelialgoblet cells immune cells and other non-specified.

the remaining 18 of all proteins identified 104 lower and 7 higher for crs individuals in this study were of great interest and will be discussed further in terms of disease status the associated bacterial communities and possible clinical implications.proteins associated with sinus diseaseof the seven elevated proteins identified in this study only one protein s100-a9 has been previously reported as being elevated in crs patients casado et al.

2007 al badaai et al.

2007 al badaai et al.

2007 al badaai et al.

proteins identified as associated with crs could be new targets for drug therapies and biomarkers for assessment of treatment efficacy.keywords proteomics bacterial 16s rrna gene inflammatory cells biomarkers prrc2c rab14introductionchronic rhinosinusitis crs is defined by inflammation of the sinonasal cavities persisting for 3 months and occurs in 5 of the general population gliklich and metson 1995 bhattacharyya 2009 fokkens et al.

2016. the majority of proteins found in these studies related to innate and acquired immunity while only two of these studies were able to demonstrate significant differences in protein expression levels between crs and healthy patients upton et al.

the loss of epithelial barrier integrity or reduced expression of tight junction proteins has been argued as a central component in the pathogenesis of crs soyka et al.

the associated genes for these two proteins are over expressed in bladder and colorectal cancers respectively huang et al.

it is possible that this group of proteins if expressed before the onset of crs symptoms could serve as a biomarker for crs to help for diagnostic purposes das et al.

the results from this study and previous research support the use of proteins as targets for drug therapy or for assessing treatment outcomes in crs patients.the results from this study are consistent with those of other studies in crs which suggest that this disease is likely to be a result of multiple pathogenic processes benninger et al.

the majority of detected proteins 82 of proteins identified were not significantly correlated with disease status.

