the prevalence of subspecies infantis tended to be less than that of subspecies longum and was mainly influenced by the age of the child rather than nutrition only two infants less than one week of age had detectable levels 0.05 relative abundance of subspecies infantis.in general subspecies infantis was present in low abundance in infant feces compared to b. longum subsp.

the infants were part of a larger study australian new zealand clinical trials registry actrn12608000047392.for south-east asian infants the infants various ethnicities were part of a larger clinical study registered under the dutch trial register ntr 2838.for chinese infants infants were part of part of mead johnson nutrition clinical protocol number 8602. ethical approval for the work contained in this article was obtained from the ethics committee xin hua hospital affiliated to the school of medicine shanghai jiao tong university china.data availabilitythe following information was supplied regarding data availability the raw data has been supplied as a .supplemental informationsupplemental information for this article can be found online at .referencesbackhed f roswall j peng y feng q jia h kovatcheva-datchary p li y xia y xie h zhong h khan mt zhang j li j xiao l al-aama j zhang d leeys kotowska d colding c tremaroli v yin y bergman s xu x madsen l kristiansen k dahlgren j jun w. 2015. dynamics and stabilization of the human gut microbiome during the first year of life.

relative abundance of each subspecies wasdetermined by dividing the subspecies target quantity by the total community target quantity and multiplying by 100. if a b. longum subspecies assay was positive the sample was assumed to be positive for this subspecies.

this might be unexpected especially in the case of breast milk-fed infants where the specialized hmo metabolism of subspecies infantis could favor proliferation of this subspecies over subspecies longum .investigations of the infant bowel microbiota in terms of comparative bacterial growth using available substrates and resource partitioning in the community are required to provide ecological explanations of bifidobacterial relative abundances.the evolutionary importance of the infant-bifidobacteria paradigm remains speculative but may involve competitive exclusion of pathogens andor support of infant nutrition    .

in cow's milk formula-fed chinese infants the distribution of subspecies longum abundances tended to be different to those of breast milk-fed infants .

groups of 30 infants were randomly selected from the main study for fecal microbiota analysis and a parallel group of exclusively breast milk-fed infants was included as a reference group 30 infants.

other details of the infants are given in .south-east asian infantsthe infants various ethnicities were part of a larger clinical study registered under the dutch trial register ntr 2838. the infants were recruited as part of a multi-country exploratory randomized double-blind controlled study in singapore n  19 and thai- land n  5. an equal distribution of vaginally and elective caesarean section delivered in- fants were selected from each location.

dif- ferentiation of b. longum into subspecies has been carried out in relatively few quantitative studies of the infant fecal microbiota so that subspecies prevalence and relative abundances are not accurately known on a global scale   .

other groups have used 16s rrna gene primers  16s23s intergenic region primers  23s rrna gene primers  and tuf gene primers  to differentiate the subspecies but a high degree of similarity be- tween sequences of marker genes such as the 16s rrna gene and tuf gene leads to difficulty in generating pcr primers that are capable of absolute discrimination of the b. longum subspecies .

extracted gdna was used as template in separate qpcr reactions including the universal 16s rrna gene primers to determinetotal community target quantity and each of the b. longum subspecies taqmanqrassayprimerprobe sets to determine target quantity for each b. longum subspecies.

longum sugar kinase gene locus tag 'bl0274' from strain ncc 2705.designed primers were checked for target specificity in-silico using primer-blast  against the ncbi nr database and showed absence of predicted cross reactivity with non-target templates.reaction specificity and efficiency was tested by generating ten-fold serial dilutions of both b. longum subspecies longum and b. longum subspecies infantis gdna so that reactions would contain between 5x 106 and 5x 101 genomesreaction.

results indicated that extraction methodology would have a negligible impact on the detection of the b. longum subspecies  but nevertheless argue for a standard extraction method to be used in all studies.prevalence and relative abundances of subspecies longum andinfantis in fecesb.

overall it was concluded that subspecies infantis was prevalent but was of low relative abundance compared to subspecies longum in infant feces collected in all three geographical regions.geographical locationnutritiondeliveryage at sampling weeksb.

in the case of south-east asian and australian infants caesarean section coupled with milk formula tended to be associated with low abundances of subspecies infantis .

all of the chinese infants had been delivered by caesarean thus the subspecies longum abundances were affected by infant nutrition.

