most studies are mainly focused on lab and cnc populations as their behavior during ripening is important in establishing the sensorial safety and nutritional properties of the final products as well as in extending the shelf-life  .several studies have investigated the spanish dry fermented sausage chorizo microbial ecology  but none focused on chorizo de leon.hts methods have changed the way of studying food microbial ecology giving the researchers the opportunity of an in-depth characterization of the microbial ecology of different environ- ments and to monitor the dynamics of potential pathogens spoilage and fermentative microbes  .microbial and chemical changes are indicators of meat quality or freshness .

the diverse microbial composition observed during the first stages of chorizo deleon evolved during ripening to a microbiota mainly composed by lactobacillus in the final product.oligotyping performed on 16s rrna gene sequences of lactobacillus and staphylococcus populations revealed sub-genus level diversity within the different manufacturers likely responsible of the charac- teristic organoleptic properties of the products from different companies.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionfermentation is one of the oldest strategies employed for meat preservation.

plotting was carried out in r environment  by using ggplot2 made4 and factoextra packages.nucleotide sequence accession numberall the sequencing data were deposited at the sequence read archive of the national center for biotechnology information prjna386744.resultsthe microbial population involved in the ripening of chorizo de leona and b shows the relative abundance of the 13 most abundant genera in the different manufacturing steps from the different making companies and from the overall process respec- tively.

lactobacillus population increased widely as theripening process begun remaining stable until the end of the process 81.89 and 83.35 average at the half of the ripening pro- cess and in chorizo de leon final products respectively.

3. a. pie graph with the relative abundance of lactobacillus oligotypes at the half of the ripening process inner circle and in the final chorizo de leon products outer circle.b.

the 16s amplicon sequencing methods have become the most widely used in food microbiology research during the last years  andwhen combined with fruitful bioinformatics analysis pipelines they can provide in depth microbial ecology insights also at sub-genus diversity level .this study aims to an in depth investigation of the microbial populations involved in the chorizo de leon ripening process from the raw meat to the final products.

oligotyping allowed the identification of different l. sakei oligotypes along chorizo de leon ripening two of them being especially abundant in final products from all manufacturers.

the increasing knowledge on the microbiota involved in chorizo manufacturing process as well as the differ- ences associated to a facility-specific microbiota may help in the development of specific starters well adapted to the manufacturingenvironment and thus capable of dominating the meat microbiota during production in order to standardize the ripening process and to control the quality and safety of such appreciated products.acknowledgmentsthis study was supported by the spanish national institute for agriculture and food research and technology inia co-financed by the european social fund project rta2014-00024-c04.

at the half of the ripening process the microbial population was replaced by lactobacillus in all manu- facturers a and b. lactobacillus relative abundance was stable until the end of the process reaching abundances of 83.8 in cho-rizo de leon from manufacturer b and higher than 92.0 in thosefrom manufacturers c-1 c-2 and d. its abundance was lower 65.1 and 69.2 in final products from manufactures a and e where brochothrix 22.1 and staphylococcus 19.7 reached higher levels respectively a and b.the differences between samples were evaluated by weighted unifrac phylogenetic metric .

a shows the relative abundance of lactobacillus oli- gotypes in the half of the ripening process inner circle and in the final products outer circle in the different making companies.

nevertheless samples from the late-ripening stagesclustered together showing a similar microbial evolution in chorizo de leon ripening where lactobacillus almost dominate indepen- dently from the initial meat contamination .sub-genus diversity analysis of the key genera lactobacillus and staphylococcuslactobacillus and staphylococcus represent the most important bacterial populations in dry fermented sausages fermentation and ripening as well as in the development of their organoleptic and safety properties.

smoking took place at the beginning or during ripening process in the ripening room where the sausages remained up to 25e30 days.

moreover they often withstand dur- ing early-fermentation stages while decrease during ripening  .similar microbial dynamics were observed along chorizo de leonmanufacture in the different making companies.

as chorizo de leon ripening proceeded lactobacillus became dominant in samples from all the manufactures and dominated in the final products.

edifferent lactobacillus populations dominate in chorizo de leonmanufacturing performed in different production plantsnarciso m. quijada   francesca de filippis  jose javier sanz maria del camino garcia-fernandez   david rodriguez-lazaro  danilo ercolini marta hernandez   a instituto tecnologico agrario de castilla y leon itacyl laboratory of molecular biology and microbiology valladolid spainb university of naples federico ii department of agricultural sciences portici italyc instituto de ciencia y tecnologia de los alimentos ictal microbiology leon spaind universidad de leon departamento de higiene y tecnologia de los alimentos leon spaine universidad de burgos department of biotechnology and food science burgos spaina r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 24 may 2017 received in revised form 22 august 2017accepted 12 september 2017available online 14 september 2017keywords microbial ecology sequencingfood fermentation lactobacillus oligotypinga b s t r a c t chorizo de leon is a high-value spanish dry fermented sausage traditionally manufactured without the use of starter cultures owing to the activity of a house-specific autochthonous microbiota that naturally contaminates the meat from the environment the equipment and the raw materials.

