the interaction between drought and forest management influenced significantly the abundance of bacil- lus blastococcus conexibacter leifsonia and sphingomonas.the structure of the total bacterial community was analyzed by factorial analysis of the relative abundances of phyla orders and genera determined using 16s rrna gene sequencing figure 3d e and f. permanova revealed a significant effect of season and for- est management but not of drought on the structure of the totaltabl e 2 shannon-wiener diversity indexes in soils subjected to different drought conditions and forest managementathe diversity of the total bacterial community analyzed by 16s rrna genes at genus level.bthe diversity of the total fungal community analyzed by its sequencing at genus level.cthe diversity of the active bacterial community analyzed by the relative abundance of proteins at genus level.dthe diversity of the active fungal community analyzed by the relative abundance of proteins at genus level.ehfunc is the functional diversity analyzed by the functional proteins at cog level.

the impacts of drought on the total community are buffered by its higher diversity while the active community represents just a subset of the total community that is more sensitive to environmental changes blagodatskaya  kuzya- kov 2013 romanowicz freedman upchurch argiroff  zak 2016. other studies found a stronger response to induced drought of the active bacterial community with rna-based methods than the total bacterial community barnard et al.

for instance some studies demonstrated increases in the gram-positivebiomass after drought barnard osborne  firestone 2013 manzoni taylor richter porporato  agren 2012 while others did not find consistent effects on the microbial community composi- tion rousk smith  jones 2013 de vries  shade 2013 canarini carrillo mariotte ingram  dijkstra 2016. furthermore the response of a microbial community to drought may depend on the physiological tolerance and metabolic flexibility of the microbiome allison  martiny 2008.the soil microbial community is a complex blackbox that requires a multi-conceptual approach hultman et al.

composition diversity and structure of the total fungal communitythe diversity of the total fungal community was impacted by drought decreased in drought plots but not by forest management or season table 1. the diversity of the total fungal community did not correlate with functional diversity p  .525 toc p  .106 or wsc p  .305.the total fungal community was dominated by ascomycota basidiomycota and zygomycota while glomeromycota and chytrid- iomycota accounted for less than 1 in all treatments.

the interaction between drought and forest man- agement influenced significantly the abundance of geminibasidiumhebeloma inocybe knufia picoa pustularia sebacina tricholomaand tuber.the structure of the total fungal community was analyzed by fac- torial analysis of the relative abundances of phyla orders and genera figure 4d e and f. drought forest management and season impacted significantly the structure of the total fungal community according to permanova table 3. moreover the interaction between forest management and drought also impacted the struc- ture of the fungal community.

the diversity of the active bacterial community was influenced by drought forest management and season and by their interactions table 1 and was negatively correlated with wsc p  .03 r  -0.44. the active bacterial diversity was the highest in thinned plots without induced drought ct table 2. the diversity of the active fungal community was influenced significantly by drought forest management and season and by their interaction table 1. theeffi gu re 3 the total bacterial community composition as derived by genomic profiling.

however the total fungal community and the active microbial community were more sensitive to drought and were related to ecosystem multifunctionality.

the integration of total and active microbiome analyses avoids misinter- pretations of the links between the soil microbial community and climate change.key w ord sclimate change drought forest management genomics metaproteomics microbial biomass microbial community semiaridglob change biol.

water and nutrients between neighboring trees is avoided as a way to improve tree growth and survival and ecosystem productivity gonzalez-ochoa lopez-serrano  las heras 2004 lopez-serrano las heras gonzalez-ochoa  garcia- morote 2005. moreover it has been observed that thinning affects the structure of the soil microbial community through changes in soil temperature and the abundance of fungi-feeding nematodes in pine plantation in eastern tibetan plateau yang pang hu bao  tian 2017. furthermore rietl and jackson 2012 concluded that thin- ning reduces the amount of litter in a mesic forest in northern mis- sissippi and promoted the efficiency of soil enzymes involved in litter degradation.moreover it has been highlighted that many of the impacts of climate change on the soil microbial community may occur via direct or indirect effects on plant communities bardgett freeman  ostle 2008 von rein et al.

this has ecological consequences since the behavior of the active community is more important or even essential and can differ from that of the total community.

indeed it has been shown that the diversity of the active community analyzed by metaproteomics is related more closely to soil functionality than that of the total community analyzed by 16s rrna genes and its sequencing bas- tida et al.

2016 keiblinger fuchs zechmeister-boltenstern  riedel 2016.we hypothesized that the active soil microbial community willbe more sensitive to drought and forest management than the total microbial community.

indeed it is expected that fungal community will be more sensitive to drought than bacterial community hawkes et al.

the shannon-wiener index of diversity was calculated for i bacterial diversity based on 16s rrna gene sequencing hbacgen ii fungal diversity based on its sequencing hfunggen iii diversity of the active bacterial community based on the taxonomic analysis of proteins hbacprot iv diversity of the active fungal community based on the taxonomic analysis of pro- teins hfungprot and v the diversity of proteins retrieved from the cog list based on nsaf values functional diversity hfunc.the normality and homogeneity of variables were tested by the kolmogorov-smirnov and levene tests respectively and data were log-transformed when necessary.

forest management and season influenced the diversity of bacteria tables 1 and 2. the diversity of the total bacterial community cor- related weakly with functional diversity p  .047 r  .41 but not with toc p  .771 or wsc p  .394.the composition of the total bacterial community was dominated by the following phyla actinobacteria up to 22 proteobacteria upfi gu re 2 enzyme activities in c n and p cycling.

