quercetin inhibited the growth of mcf-7 cells promoted apoptosis by inducing g0g1 phase arrest and regulated the mrna expression of survivin 56. at a very high concentration quercetin at 150 lm in- duced apoptosis by direct activation of the caspase cascade through the mitochondrial pathway 40. quercetin induced partial co-localization of phospho-akt and phospho-ampk in the nucleus of mcf-7 breast cancer cells 130. quercetin- 3-o-glucuronide one of the main human phase ii metabolites of quercetin in blood showed era- and erb-dependent es- trogenic activity in mcf-7 cells 209. quercetin can reverse tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer mcf-7catam-r cells involving upregulation of era and downregulation of her-2 receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbb-2 an epider- mal growth factor receptor and oncogene target in breast cancer 252. in mda-mb-453 cells high concentrations of quercetin 100 lm increased the number of sub-g1 phase cells increased apoptosis increased bax expression de- creased bcl-2 expression and increased cleaved caspase-3 and polyadp-ribosepolymerase 1 expression 39. quer- cetin 100 lm showed cytotoxicity in mcf-7 cells but not in mda-mb-231 by suppressing expression of cyclin d1p21 twist and phospho-p38mapk which induced apo- ptosis in mcf-7 cells 202. quercetin-3-o-glucuronide at a very low concentration 0.1 lm suppressed invasion of mda-mb-231 breast cancer cells and mmp-9 induction by controlling b2-adrenergic signaling 271. quercetin with vitamin c decreased nrf2 mrna and protein levels and of endogenous ros in mda-mb 231 mda-mb 468 a549 and mcf-7 breast cancer cells 164. quercetin and egcg concentration dependently inhibited deoxy-d-glucose uptake by both mcf-7 and mda-mb-231 cells and both com- pounds blocked lactate production by mcf-7 cells 163. quercetin can also increase the sensitivity of breast cancer cells to doxorubicin through downregulation of phospho-akt expression arising from increased expression of pten this protein functions as a tumor suppressor by negatively regu- lating the aktprotein kinase b signaling pathway 135.quercetin has been studied in animal models for anti- breast cancer activity.

permission only needs to be obtained for commercial use and can be done via rightslink.1nitrosomethylurea to generate pancreatic cancer quercetin promoted carcinogenesis 16. in contrast when benzoa- pyrene was used to generate lung cancer in swiss albino mice quercetin supplementation exerted a protective effect against cancer development but crucially as a guide for mechanism of action the effect was much more pronounced when quercetin was given as a chemopreventive agent rather than as a chemotherapeutic agent 110. when female aci rats were given quercetin 2.5 gkg food for 8 months there was no protection against breast cancer 224 but quercetin together with doxorubicin increased anti-tumor activity in mice with 4t1 breast cancer 63. these examples indicate that it is difficult to draw any general conclusions and therefore specific animal studies are incorporated into the main body of the review when and where appropriate.in humans several trials have tested the efficacy of fla- vonoids on cancer risk and progression.

a phase i trial of quercetin has been reported 71 and trials with flavonoids on cancer progression in cancer patients in phase i and ii clinical trials have been reviewed 242. epidemiological studies report that intake of quercetin-rich food reduced the risk of gastric cancer by 43 66 and of colon cancer by 32 241. widely reported effects of quercetin have led to claims that high concentrations can inhibit the growth of cancer cells and hence could aid chemoprevention.green tea is the most studied chemopreventive agent and so far results obtained show some promise for further stud- ies.

this suggests that the metabolic switch influencing tropism of cancer cells may occur when they acquire metastatic properties 64 pointing to differential regulation by distinct pathways in different cell types and suggesting varying dependencies on pdh flux between normal and transformed cells 89.currently the diverse metabolic signatures of different cancers the anaplerotic mechanisms that may be activated depending on the stage of the cancer and the proliferation stage of the specific cancer in question are posing a great challenge for cancer therapeutics.

some studies have reported beneficial effects of egcg or green tea extract with anticancer drugs such as bleomycin in cervical cancer cells cisplatin in vitro in various cancer cell lines and in mouse models in vivo ta- moxifen in human breast cancer cells in vitro and negative effects with bortezomib diminishing its antitumor effects in cwr22 xenograft-bearing breast cancer mice 30. the positive reported outcomes of green tea catechins and mainly of egcg were related to induction of apoptosis and ros caspase activity and in the case of cisplatin re- duction of drug resistance and amelioration of cisplatin treatment side effects.

in a study of more than 8000 individuals daily con- sumption of green tea demonstrated delayed cancer onset further breast cancer patients experienced a lower recurrence rate and longer remission 73. however high doses of green tea generally above that possible to be obtained from the diet alone that is as a supplement in the form of an extractmay cause hepatotoxicity in some individuals 21 108 151 177. it is highly doubtful whether nutritional doses could ever achieve a high enough concentration in blood or other tissues required to exert this effect 167. very high transient blood concentrations can be achieved by pharmaceutical doses or by direct intravenous administration as shown for quercetin 90. these factors must be addressed in any study proposing to use flavonoids at dietary or pharmacological doses as agents to reduce the risk of cancer or indeed of any chronic disease.when considering the interaction of any molecule whe- ther a flavonoid other phytochemical nutrient drug or toxin with a target the absorption metabolism and excre- tion must be considered.

in cancer cells and especially in solid tumors where hypoxia is maintained hif-1a remains ab- normally stabilized and through upregulation of glycolytic enzymes and long-term inactivation of the pdc complex owing to increased expression of pdks pdk1 reduced levels of ros protect cancer cells from apoptosis 25 26. in addition glycolytic metabolites such as lactate and pyruvate also stabilize hif-1a via a hypoxia-independent mechanism and establish a positive loop of hif-1a activities suggesting that obesity or insulin resistance could increase the develop- ment of cancers 57. hypoxia in tumors also leads to over- expression of hif-2a which subsequently favors cancer cell survival proliferation and metastasis involving non- canonical glutamine metabolism as recently shown in human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma pdac 76 136.generally rosrns interact with certain amino acid residues of proteins protein tyrosine phosphatases protein tyrosine kinases ptks and protein kinase c pkc and in turn activate downstream kinase cascades such as phosphoi- nositide 3-kinase pi3k and mitogen-activated protein kinases mapks.

ptks have been found to be hyperactivated in many cancer cells and are regarded as oncoproteins whereas acti- vation of the c-jun-n-terminal kinase  jnk signaling pathway involving nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of acti- vated b cells nf-jb and mapks in cancer and inflammation are also linked to increased blood lactate levels through inac- tivation of the pdc complex 187.modulation of such metabolic pathways has for many years been the objective of various studies in an effort to maximize chemoprevention by altering the redox state of cancer cells without affecting healthy tissue.

most cultured tumor cells including hepg2 typically express elevated nox1 and low rates of glycogen synthesis enabling them to channel glucose to glycolysis rather than energy storage to maintain their high energy utilization 18. increased ros from nox1 induce hif-1a target genes such as glut1 and glucose-6-phosphatase 78. experimentally glucose at a very high non-physiological concentration 50 mm has also been shown to cause apoptosis in hepg2 cells 35.high-glucose-induced changes in lipid metabolism are observed in hepg2 cells such as induced fatty acid synthase fasn activity via increased mrna stability 213 in- creased accumulation of intracellular storage lipids 276 in- creased hepatic lipase 243 and changes in intracellular metabolites such as transient increases in glucose-6-phosphate 3-phosphoglycerate citrate and lyso-phosphatidyl choline and decreases in serine acylcarnitines and phosphatidyl eth- anolamine 155. all these aspects contribute to tumor pro- gression and recently acetyl-coa carboxylase acca was reported to have a central role in mediating de novo lipogenesis for metabolic adaptation in human hepatocellular cancer 254. similarly de novo lipogenesis activation was also reported in an array of cancer cells following limitation of access to ex- ogenous lipids as may occur in intact tumors 49.the tumor-specific modulation of carnitine palmitoyl transferase cpt1a the rate-limiting step in b oxidation and of fasn in human colorectal cancer and breastcarcinomas has also been reported.

in addition nrf2 can aid cancer cells in resisting chemotherapy and radiotherapy 268. nrf2 overexpression enhanced resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs such as cisplatin doxorubicin and etoposide in cancer cells 258. in addition nrf2 silencing through rna interference inhibited tumor growth and enhanced the efficacy of chemo- therapy in nonsmall-cell lung carcinoma cells 222. the aber- rant activation of nrf2 was attributed to the radio resistance in nsclc cells 221 and linked to upregulation of drug efflux pumps such as abcg2 which enhances the resistance to anti- cancer drugs in lung epithelial cells 223. increased expression of the abc transporters would also blunt interactions of poly- phenols with cellular targets due to increased elimination of intracellularly formed metabolites.in contrast with normal cells nrf2 protein constitutive upregulation in many tumors is due to somatic mutations in the keap1 or nrf2 genes 98. it has also been suggested that in certain settings nrf2 augments purine nucleotide synthesis thus supporting tissue hypertrophy.

given the differential expression of gluts between cancer cell lines normal tissues and in cancer this activity of quercetin may be of importance in potentiating cellular re- programming and induction of apoptosis of cancer cells.

in vitro it also inhibited calcineurin activity 280. quercetin dose dependently decreased tumor number and volume in a transgenic c31sv40 tag breast cancer mouse model of human breast cancer and at the lowest dose of 0.2 of diet 31 genes were downregulated and 9 genes were upregulated more than twofold 227. quercetin improved the therapeutic index of the anthracycline antibiotic doxorubicin by its op- posing effects on hif-1a in 4t1 tumor cells and in murine normal spleen cells evaluated in balbc mice with 4t1 breast cancer.

mmps play an important role in tissue re- construction near proliferating cells of malignant neoplasms during cancer metastasis whereas significantly low levels of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-3 timp-3 protein expression in breast cancer have been reported to be correlated with an aggressive cancer phenotype.

the inhibitory effect of epicatechin at 10 lm on in- vasion of cancer cells into embryonic stem cell-derived vascularized tissues was attributed to downregulation of mmp-9 expression 91. finally the inhibitory activity of egcg in cancer progression and invasion was also seen in mouse mammary cancer cells through activation of forkhead box o transcription factor the major regulator of era sig- naling.

in addition to glycolysis cancer cells also shunt glycolytic intermediates into the pentose phosphate pathway serine biosynthesis and lipid biosynthesis as opposed to complete oxidation by mi- tochondrial respiration and so efficiently generate nadph another factor that is essential for biosynthetic processes to enable cancer cell survival 32. in some tumors this is achieved by limiting pyruvate utilization by mitochondria.

