another limitation of gilbert's procedure is that the filtering step which uses a bonferroni-like threshold may be too aggressive as it filters out hypotheses for which the p value cannot reach a lower bound which is potentially much lower than the actual p value threshold using the bh step at the second step.motivated by the formulation of the bh procedure heyse  suggested a discrete bh procedure that exploits more fully the discrete null distributions of the test statistics and demonstrated in simulations that it controls the fdr at the prespecified level and has power equal to or greater than both the bh and gilbert methods.

let p1  ...  pm be the sorted p values subscript parentheses indicate sorted p values and raw p values are without parentheses then the bh-adjusted p values are pbhadjmmini j i pi and the bh procedure at level q is equivalent to rejecting all hypotheses with bh-adjustedp values of q. heyse suggested a procedure that adjusts p values as pheyse.adjminim prh pl pjjbhadjj1l 1lj and the procedure at level q is equivalent to rejecting all hypotheses withheyse-adjusted p values of q. the procedure by li and tibshirani  can be expressed as the ds-fdrim pr p  p procedure that adjusts p values as pds-fdr.adj minij l 1 hl li  where the null probabilities areiestimated using permutations of the labels see supplemental material for the proof and see the detailed algorithm below.

the procedure introduced by benjamini and hochberg  henceforth the bh procedure is the first multiple testing procedure for controlling the fdr and remains very popular.

thus the bh procedure canbe conservative for discrete test statistics in the sense that its actual fdr level may be smaller than m0 q.mmoreover such conservatism does not decrease as the number of hypotheses increases or with modifications of the original bh procedure that can provide higher power by incorporating an estimate of the number of null hypotheses .several other approaches that take the discreteness into account for fdr control have been suggested in the literature.

i imb i  tb  ci tj cfor a range of values of the cut-point c compute v imj 1 b 1jb1andri tj  c.j 1estimate the fdr at the cut-pointbyv.cfdrcrfind cargmincfdrc q. if no solution exists set cinfinity.reject all hypotheses with tj  c.here we compare the performance of ds-fdr with the bh procedure and the filtered bh fbh procedure on simulated and real microbiome data.

the fbh procedure is analogous to gilbert's  two-step procedure and it is preferred over gilbert's method as it is theoretically guaranteed that thefdr is controlled and is less aggressive in removing potentially interesting taxa first reduce the number of tests by eliminating hypotheses whose minimal achievable p value cannot reach the nominal unadjusted q level of statistical significance and second apply the bh procedure to the reduced set of microbes.

unless otherwise stated in the following simulations sample size varies from 10 to 100 per group the difference of the mean rank is used as the test statistic q  0.1 is chosen as the threshold for fdr and 1000 permutations are performed in fdr calculation.in the first simulation we test the effect of the number of samples on the perfor- mance of the benjamini-hochberg bh procedure the proposed filtered bh fbh and ds-fdr method and .

the gain from using this procedure over the bh procedure comes from the factthat prh pl  pi  pi.

on theiljother hand if all the null distributions are identical then there is no gain in using the ds-fdr procedure over the original bh procedure.

therefore ds-fdr procedure rejects at least as many null hypotheses as the bh procedure.

however if all null distributions are the same then the ds-fdr procedure rejects exactly the same null hypotheses as the bh procedure does.in microbiome data the null distribution of test statistics is unknown and therefore it is often inappropriate to make parametric assumptions.

as shown in the simulations to  fbh alleviates the conservatism in bh procedure but it is still inferior to the ds-fdr procedure because fbh does not exploit the discreteness of the test statistics that are not removed in the first step.

for independent continuous test statistics the fdr of the bh procedure at level q controlled level of false-discovery rateis exactly m0 q where m and mare the number of hypotheses and the number of truem0null hypotheses respectively .

however for discrete test statistics as their tail probabilities can be smaller than those of continuous test statistics from the nulldistribution the fdr of the bh procedure may be much smaller than m0 q resulting inmoverconservative control of the fdr and reduced power in detecting significantfindings .two features of microbiome data could easily produce discrete test statistics and possibly highly conservative fdr control one is the low number of samples and the other is the underlying sparsity of the data.

this procedure coincides with the permutation-based fdr estimation procedure of li and tibshirani .

