positive clones were evaluated for esterase activity using cell-free lysates and the soluble esterase substrate pnpb.preparation of cell-free lysates.

to enable comparison of the substrate profiles using cell-free lysates independent of different expression levels in each lysate volumetric activities units per liter were calculated as percentages of the activity with the reference substrate pnpb.

enzymatic hydrolysis of pbat  leads to the release of the possible hydrolytic products ada bis4-hydroxybutyl terephthalate btab and b resulting from hydrolysis of the aliphatic ester bonds as well as mono4-hydroxybutyl terephthalate bta and ta resulting from hydrolysis of the aromatic ester bonds.the polyester was applied to the reactions in two different forms i.e.

in contrast the esterase chathest1 gqsgg clusters in family vii and thefig 2 substrate profiles of metagenome esterases as either cell-free lysates a or purified enzymes b using pnp aliphatic esters with various chain lengths.

substrate specificity profiles of the cloned esterases were measured using cell-free lysates and p-nitrophenyl pnp aliphatic esters of different chain lengths .

to enable comparison of the substrate profiles despite strong differences in the expression levels of the esterases in the cell-free lysates volumetric activities were calculated as percentages of the activity measured with the commonly employed reference substrate pnpb.

buffer exchange was performed through dilution and centrifugation using amicon ultra-15 centrifugal filters 10-kda cutoff merck millipore using 20 mm tris-hcl buffer ph 7.0 containing 0.5 m nacl.

the increase in fluorescence was recorded using a tecan m200 plate reader and quantification was performed using a 4-methylumbelliferone standard curve for each ph value.

the hydrolysis products ta ada benzoic acid ba bta and btab were quantified by means of rp-hplc using a dionex system dionex usa consisting of an ultimate 3000 pump an asi-100 automated sample injector an ultimate 3000 column compartment and a uvd 340u photodiode array detector in combination with a xterra rp18 column 3.5 um 3.0 mm by 150 mm with a precolumn waters corp. usa.

quantification of hydrolysis products was performed using calibration curves constructed with authentic standards.phylogenetic analysis.

in addition to the activities determined with the common soluble ester substrates the hydrolysis of the polyester pbat and the morefig 3 chemical structure a and enzymatic hydrolysis b of the aliphatic-aromatic copolyester pbat.

bars mean values n  3 error bars standard deviations.pbat foil 191.1 um 318.5 mol mol of enzyme-1 indicating more efficient hydrolysis to the monomeric subunits and more effective hydrolysis of the aromatic ta-b ester bond.

the concentrations of hydrolysis products released during control and blank reactions were subtracted from the concentrations reached in sample reactions in order to exclude the influence of hydrolytic enzymes from the e. coli host.hplc quantification of released hydrolysis products.

two promis- ing polyesterase candidates estb3 and estc7 which clustered in family viii of bacterial lipolytic enzymes were purified and characterized using the soluble es- terase substrate p-nitrophenyl butyrate km values of 46.5 and 3.4 um tempera- ture optima of 48degc and 50degc and ph optima of 7.0 and 8.5 respectively.

during the second screening step the 83 identified clones were evaluated for hydrolytic activity toward p-nitrophenyl butyrate pnpb by using cell-free lysates see table s2 in the supplemental material.

