OPENReceived 19 October 2016accepted 28 February 2017Published 24 April 2017Discovery of tauroursodeoxycholic acid biotransformation enzymes from the gut microbiome of black bears using metagenomicsCan Song1 Bochu Wang1 Jun Tan2 Liancai Zhu1  Deshuai Lou1Tauroursodeoxycholic acid TUDCA has been used to treat many diseases effectively.7a-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 7a-HSDH and 7b-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 7b-HSDH are two key enzymes that drive the efficient biosynthesis of TUDCA from taurochenodeoxycholic acid TCDCA in vitro.

The 7a-HSDHs from the present study and C. sardiniense C. sordel- lii C. scindens B. fragilis and E.coli belong to the same subgroup.

In the past TUDCA was prepared by chemical synthesis and compared to chemical epimerization biotransformation of TUDCA from TCDCA is a mild and environmentally friendly process.Therefore 7a-HSDHs and 7b-HSDHs are two key enzymes for the efficient biotransformation of TCDCA to TUDCA.

Comparing the activity of the discovered five 7a-HSDHs to the known one purified from C. absonum ATCC27555 protein S1-a-1 and S1-a-2 showed five-fold and two-fold enzymatic activity of the known one.

Both free and conjugated bile acids are natural products and fundamental components of bile which plays an important role in the pathways of human fat metabolism.Tauroursodeoxycholic acid TUDCA a kind of conjugated bile acid and the physiologically active form of ursodeoxycholic acid UDCA has various pharmaceutical applications due to its beneficial effects on the treatment of hepatobiliary disease improving therapy effects in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease and preventing apoptosis-related diseases.

The amino acid sequences of 7a-HSDHs from C. sardiniense Clo.sa-a Genebank No.

The amino acid sequences of 7a-HSDHs from C. sardiniense Clo.sa-a Genebank No.

Five 7a-HSDHs S1-a-1 S1-a-2 H1-a-1 H1-a-2 and Y1-a-1 and one 7b-HSDH Y1-b-1 discovered in the present study together with one known 7a-HSDH Clo.sa-a and 7b-HSDH Clo.sa-b purified from C. absonum ATCC27555 were tested for enzymatic activity respectively.

We tested the eight proteins five 7a-HSDHs and one 7b-HSDH discovered in the present study and one known 7a-HSDH name as Clo.sa-a and 7b-HSDH name as Clo.sa-b purified from C. absonum ATCC27555 for enzymatic activity 1B.

The newly discovered 7b-HSDH presented an enzymatic activity equal to the one purified from C. absonum ATCC27555.To identify the conversion ability of the five 7a-HSDHs and one 7b-HSDH the conversion products of the purified enzymes were subjected to HPLC 1C.

