the bwg of the chickens in group pc was significantly lower than that in group nc p  0.05. the feed conversion ratio fcr of group pc was also significantly lower than that effects of bacillus licheniformis on the growth performance of broilers from day 1 to 22.of group nc p  0.05. however the bwg of the chickens in group bl was higher than that of group pc and not significantly different from that of group nc p  0.05.across rows lowercase letters indicate statistically significant differences p  0.05. nc negative control pc treated with c. perfringens coccidia and fishmeal fc treated with fish- meal and coccidia bl pre-treated with b. licheniformis then treated with c. perfringens coc- cidia and fishmeal bwg body weight gain fi feed intake fcr feed conversion ratiothe cecal bacterial community was disturbed by c. perfringens together with predisposing factorsthe difference between groups pc and fc was that the former were fed with c. perfringens.

we speculated that there would be fewer spe- cific taxonomic differences between groups nc and bl.shows the differentially represented taxa between groups pc and bl whereas shows those between groups pc and nc.

the cecal microbiota of group bl chickens was more similar to that of chickens in group nc therefore we concluded that dis- ruption of the cecal microbiota of chickens with c. perfringens eimeria challenge and fishmeal supplementation was alleviated by b. licheniformis supplementation.supporting informations1 table.

we found that although only 14 gene pathways differed between groups bl and nc 76 gene pathways differed between groups pc and bl and 57effects of c. perfringens with other factors and bacillus licheniformis treatment on microbial diversity and richness in chickens.

linear discriminant analysis with effect size revealed less differentially represented bacterial taxa between groups bl and nc than between groups pc and nc.

surprisinglythe results showed that when all three indexes were considered there were no significant differ- ences in the alpha diversity measures in group bl and groups nc or pc .a pcoa plot was constructed to assess the relationships between the community structures of three of the groups nc pc and bl.

several chickens succumbed to sudden death overnight in the c. perfringens-infected groups although they had not previously been severely ill.to reduce the stress on the chickens they were treated more carefully and isolated from staff and animals that were unrelated to the study.

notably among the groups group pc had the highest number of unique bacterial taxa which repre- sented 22.8 of all taxa detected in the three groups.characterization of the cecal microbiota in the chickens that received b. licheniformislicheniformis has been shown to reduce the harmful effects of c. perfringens and ne-predis- posing factors in chickens.

the venn diagram  also showed distinct microbiota in the chickens in groups pc and nc.licheniformis treatment prevented the disturbance caused by c. perfringens eimeria challenge and fishmeal supplementation in the cecal microbiotaalthough probiotics such as b. licheniformis have been applied previously to prevent the harm- ful effects of c. perfringens challenge in broilers this is the first time that the intestinal micro- biota of the prevention group has been analyzed from an ecological perspective.there were no significant differences between the bl and the pc or control groups in the three alpha diversity indices for the microbial communities.

on day 15 chickens from all groups except the nc group were treated with a 10-fold coccidia vaccine via oral gavage.

the chickens in groups bl and nc seemed to have similar overrepresented bacterial taxa which could also support the preventa- tive effects of b. licheniformis.

sutterella for example is a potential probiotic present in pigeon milk that can improve the rate of growth and feed conversion ratio in chickens .in the picrust analysis we found larger differences between pc and bl than between the pc and nc groups 76 and 57 significantly different pathways respectively.

community diversity and richness in chickens in groups nc fc and pc.

this analysis allowed a comparison of the differences in the func- tional profiles of groups pc and bl and revealed gene pathways that were significantly differ- ent between groups nc pc and bl.

after filtering 45 out of the 76 pathways differing between groups pc and bl and 29 out the 57 between groups nc and pc were confirmed as related to metabolism .

