tolonen and xavier genome medicine 2017 956doi 10.1186s13073-017-0448-7dissecting the human microbiome with single-cell genomicsandrew c. tolonen1 and ramnik j. xavier1234indicate whether they contain phage and plasmids that facilitate horizontal transfer of genes for clinically relevant traits such as antibiotic resistance.the human microbiome at the cellular levelthe human body is inhabited by a complex collection of microorganisms constituting the human microbiome which is increasingly recognized as having important roles in human health and disease.

gmd simplifies genome assembly but it can introduce sam- pling bias because the cells must be able to grow and divide in the agar beads.these technology advances to perform single-cell sequencing of bacteria are enabling new investigations into the roles of specific taxa of the human microbiome in health and disease.the promise of targeted single-cell sequencing of the human microbiomesingle-cell genomics of the human microbiome has already led to the discovery of bacteria with novelmetabolic features and even an alternative genetic code owing to the diversity of taxa in the microbiome a method such as 16s sequencing after mda or antibody- based immunomagnetic separation must be used to prioritize individual cells from mixed samples for gen- ome sequencing.

for example the human microbiome project hmp is cataloging the healthy human microbiome at multiple body sites by using 16s ribosomal and metagenomic sequencing pro- viding a reference for future sequencing efforts and priori- tizing microbes for study based on their potential importance to human health.

many members of the human microbiome belong to phyla from which no iso- lates have been cultured owing to their unknown growth requirements resulting in the widespread application of cultivation-independent methods to characterize the com- position and function of the microbiome.

analysis of individual genomes from the human microbiome can also be broadly applied in fields such as epidemiology to trace the emergence of patho- gens and drug-resistant strains.abbreviations16s a subunit of the prokaryotic ribosome facs fluorescence-activated cell sorting gmd gel microdroplet igaigg immunoglobulin agmda multiple displacement amplificationfundingthis work was supported by the leona m. and harry b. helmsley charitable trust the crohn's and colitis foundation and nih grants u54dk102557 and p30dk043351.authors' contributionsact and rjx wrote this article.competing intereststhe authors declare that they have no competing interests.publisher's notespringer nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.author details1broad institute of mit and harvard university cambridge ma 02142 usa.

201610427-36.kuleshov v jiang c zhou w jahanbani f batzoglou s snyder m. synthetic long-read sequencing reveals intraspecies diversity in the human microbiome.

nearly finished genomes produced using gel microdroplet culturing reveal substantial intraspecies genomic diversity within the human microbiome.

fusion pcr on individual cells encapsu- lated in polyacrylamide beads facilitates deep sequencing of the phylogenetic distribution of target genes in a mixed population truseq synthetic long-read se- quencing is another high-throughput approach to reveal intraspecific haplotype diversity and rare species in the gut microbiome genome assembly especially of rare species can be improved with 'mini-metagenomics' by flow-sorting cells into pools of a few hundred cells that are together subjected to mda gel microdroplet gmd cultivation  is yet another method in which single cells are encapsulated in agar droplets and grown to a population of hundreds of cells before mda.

for example the first whole genomes produced from clinical samples were of chlamydia trachomatis cells isolated from swabs by capture on magnetic beads using a mouse immunoglobulin g igg primary antibody that specifically binds c. trachomatis lipopolysaccharide antibodies could be generally applied to isolate cells of interest for genome sequencing based on cell-surface markers.microbes can also be selected for single-cell genome sequencing based upon their recognition by the host im- mune system.

much has been learned about the composition of the microbiome by ribosomal sequencing to resolve taxonomy and by metagenomics to assess the collective gene pool.

4center for microbiome informatics and therapeutics mit cambridge ma 02139 usa.palm nw de zoete mr cullen tw barry na stefanowski j hao l et al.

uga is an additional glycine codon in uncultured sr1 bacteria from the human microbiota.

furthermore it can define the metabolic features and pathogenic potential of specific bacterial cells and can correspondence 1broad institute of mit and harvard university cambridge ma 02142 usafull list of author information is available at the end of the articleadvances and challenges in microbial single-cell sequencingsingle-cell sequencing of microbial genomes entails technical challenges relating to the various steps of the required workflow isolation of individual cells whole- genome amplification dna sequencing and sequence analysis fig.

once the cell has been isolated the cell envelope is broken using a procedure that is rigorous enough to rupture recalcitrant taxa but delicate enough to limit chromosomal break-points that will not be covered in the final sequence.genomic dna must then be amplified into a library containing many copies of each locus for genome se- quencing.

the gold standard for genome amplification is multiple displacement amplification mda using a strand-displacing polymerase such as the proof-reading phi29 polymerase with random phosphorothioate-modified primers to synthesize long overlapping products.

