These acids modulate physiological processes in several tissues such as insulin sensitivity liver function and cholesterol metabolism      .Furthermore the gut microbiota plays important roles in the development of the immune system and the maintenance of intestinal epithelium integrity .Certain studies have linked obesity with changes in the composition and metabolic function of the gut microbiota     .

These taxonomical differences in the gut microbiota of obese subjects might contribute to obesity in several ways including energy extraction from the diet   mainly from SCFA together with an increase in low-grade inflammation and altered bile acid metabolism .Interestingly bariatric surgery also induces important changes in the composition of the gut microbiota of patients undergoing these procedures   .

Moreover the impact of these surgeries on the microbiota have been shown to be stable in the long-term .The size of the study was relatively small which might limit certain observations.However other similar studies have been conducted in small cohorts      and changes in the gut microbiota of these subjects are clear.Both RYGB and SG induce different rearrangements in the gastrointestinal tract and therefore it is expected that they also cause changes in the gut microbiota composition.

Distinct patterns in the gut microbiota after surgical or medical therapy in obese patientsDaniel A. Medina Juan P. Pedreros Dannae Turiel Nicolas Quezada Fernando Pimentel Alex Escalona and Daniel Garrido1 Department of Chemical and Bioprocess Engineering Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile Santiago Chile2 Department of Digestive Surgery School of Medicine Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile Santiago Chile3 Department of Surgery Faculty of Medicine Universidad de Los Andes Santiago ChileSubmitted 24 February 2017Accepted 18 May 2017Published 20 June 2017Corresponding authorDaniel Garrido DOI Copyright2017 Medina et al.

OPEN ACCESSSubjects Genomics Microbiology Gastroenterology and Hepatology Surgery and Surgical SpecialtiesKeywords Human gut microbiota Gastric bypass Sleeve gastrectomy Bariatric surgeryINTRODUCTIONObesity is a worldwide health problem that negatively affects quality of life.

2017 Distinct patterns in the gut microbiota after surgical or medical therapy in obese patients.PeerJ 5e3443 DOI The first line of treatment for obesity is medical treatment which combines diet and physical activity.

In aggregate these observations make interesting to understand the changes in the gut microbiota associated to both surgeries.The intestinal microbiota has been shown to have a strong impact on host health and is considered a metabolic organ.

The influence of the gut microbiota is better exemplified at the metabolic level since the microbiota synthesizes vitamins and amino acids absorbed by the epithelium  .

The gut microbiota is dominated by species that belong mainly to the Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes phylum and to a lesser degreeto Actinobacteria Proteobacteria and Verrucomicrobia .

In a mouse model transfer of the gut microbiota from RYGB-operated to germ-free mice induced weight loss and decreased fat mass in comparison with germ-free animals colonized with microbiota from sham-operated animals .

