in addition nox2 expression which generates reactive oxygen species ros production in mdscs was signifi- cantly elevated in hla-drth mdscs.discussionbos is the major cause of reduced long-term survival in lung transplantation.at 5 years after transplant almost 50 of ltrs develop bos and median survival thereafter is 3 years.previous studies have suggested a correlation between changes in the lung microbiome and occurrence of bos.in this study we characterized the relationships between the composition and diversity of airway micro- biomes with the presence of immune regulatory cells mdscs that may contribute to bos.lung microbiome of healthy subjects has been shown to be similar to that of the oral microbiome whereas the nasal microbiome is distinct from both the oral and lung microbiomes.

one-way anova for analysis of b1 vs o p o 0.01 b6 vs o p o 0.01 and n vs o p o 0.01.differences in diversity between airway and nasal samples were not significantly different p 14 0.8.nasal and airway microbiomes are distinct from the oral microbiomeprevious studies in healthy subjects have shown that the oral microbiome contributes to the composition of the lung microbiome.we compared the bacterial communities of o and b1 microbiomes using the b-diversity metric the weighted unifrac distance.

importantly the distal airways had a higher proportion of pro-inflammatory mdscs subset c whereas the proximal airways harbored more immunosuppressive mdscs subsets a and b. nakajima et al hypothesized that certain microbial populations in the lungs may trigger inflammatory pathways resulting in allograft rejection.although our study was not powered to detect statistical significance between microbial signatures in bos and non-bos subjects the bos cohort had increased relative abundance of proteobacteria firmicutes and bacteroidetes in their distal airways when compared with non-bos subjects c. although the phyla firmicutes dominated the microbiome signature in the distal airways of non-bos subjects this shifted to a proteobac- teria-dominant signature in the bos cohort.

bal mdsc subsets were enumerated using flow cytometry.results the oral microbiome signature differs from that of the nasal proximal and distal airway microbiomes whereas the nasal microbiome is closer to the airway microbiome.

we also compared the o microbiome with the c1 microbiome and found significant differences in the relative abundance of various otus see in .sharma et al.microbiome and immunoregulation in transplant211figure 3 principal component analysis shows weighted unifrac distance between proximal and distal airway microbiome lung transplant recipients.

it is possible that the greater abundance of distinct bacterial populations we identified in the distal airways may contribute to the activation of mdscs in the distal airways thus leading to increased airway inflammation and risk of allograft rejection.interestingly 2 separate species of genus prevotella were found to differentially associate with non-bos subjects in the proximal airways and bos subjects in the distal airways.

common and distinct otu signatures present in nasal and airway microbiome are presented in the and and and .proximal and distal airways microbiomes are distinctearlier work has suggested that proximal and distal airways are significantly different from each other in their cellular components cytokinechemokine profiles and reactive spe- cies.it is not known whether differences in microbiomes of the airway compartments contribute to these or result from these variations.

levels of rage were significantly higher in the distal airway compared with the proximal airway p o 0.01.b bar plot shows the level of sp-d ngml found in the proximal b1 and distal b6 airways.

in b1 p o 0.05 for comparisons of b vs a and c. in b6 c was significantly higher than a and b p o 0.001. p o 0.01 when comparing proportion of subset a in b1 and b6 and p o 0.05 when comparing proportion of c0 in b1 and b6.b correlation networks of bacterial phyla and proportions of the different phenotypic subsets of mdscs.

it remains to be determined whether the correlations of mdscs with these bacteria reflect direct involvement in the activation of the pro-inflammatory mdscs or the primary activation of immunosuppressive neutrophilic mdscs by these bacteria contribute to a secondary pro-inflammatory state of activation of non- neutrophilic mdscs.

we identified phenotypic subsets of mdscs in bal with a higher proportion of immunosuppressive mdscs in the proximal airways in contrast to a preponderance of pro-inflammatory mdscs in distal airways.

although we found an association between the airway microbiome and mdscs in ltrs it is possible that several other variables such as previous acute rejection episodes infections immunosuppressive drugs and anti-microbial therapies may influence the microbiome and immune-cell profiles in these subjects.

sharma et al.microbiome and immunoregulation in transplant207an endoplasmic er stress sensor was increased in immunosuppressive mdscs when compared with pro- inflammatory mdscs.conclusions the nasal microbiome closely resembles the microbiome of the proximal and distal airways in ltrs.

in addition the nasal microbiome was also dissimilar from the oral microbiome but more closely aligned with both proximal and distal airway microbiomes.

no differences were noted in proportion of subset b in both b1 and b6 p 14 0.8.phyla bacteroidetes proteobacteria and tm7 are differentially correlated with neutrophilic mdscs in proximal versus distal airwaysfigure 4 relative proportion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells in the proximal and distal airways and its correlation with phylum-level otus.

