we considered thatfigure 5  scanning electron microscopy photomicrographs of a calcium carbonate precipitate caco3 induced by stenotrophomonas chelatiphaga on m-3 agar medium b detail of calcified s. chelatiphaga cells bc forming tubular vaterite structures growing from the calcium carbonate matrix caco3 c detail of bacillus licheniformis cells bc attached to a calcium carbonate matrix caco3 d transversal section of a calcium carbonate crust showing b. pumilus cells and a porous calcium carbonate matrix caco3 which presents cavities left by the embedment of bacterial cells during carbonatogenesis e b. pumilus cells and vaterite crystals caco3 f exopolysaccharide eps film formed by streptomyces albidoflavus grown on m-3 agar medium.the affinity of vaterite nanoparticles to bacterial cell walls may be induced by electrostatic and stereochemical interactions at the inorganic-organic interface and by media supersaturation in the manner described by .although bacteria have the capacity to induce the formation of different calcium carbonate polymorphs vaterite aragonite and calcite the reasons underlying their selection are not well understood and believed to be linked to metabolic activity cell wall characteristics extracellular polymeric substances and growth media composition  .

the sem imaging also indicated that the carbonate crystals were formed by the interaction of bacteria with their growth media and that they acted as nucleation sites for caco3 precipitation leading to their entrapment and formation of calcium carbonate alveoles  .

their spatial distribution together with phylogenetic and metabolic diversity as well as their capacity to precipitate calcium carbonate was evaluated by combining molecular and phenotypic fingerprinting methods with x-ray diffraction fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and scanning electron-microscopy analyses.

the cultivation and molecular identification procedures allowed the characterization of 79 bacterial isolates belonging to proteobacteria 73.4 firmicutes 19 and actinobacteria 7.6. amongst them the 22 strains identified as being capable of calcium carbonate precipitation were found to belong mostly to bacillus and pseudomonas genera.

carbonate bioprecipitation   .deterioration of stoneworks belonging to the romanian cultural heritage is scarcely explored with most of the studies being focused on abiotic weathering of building stone fromto corrosion and biodeterioration sepulchral    or  .

will alter the chemical composition of the stone and lead to its decay .microbial carbonate precipitation is a ubiquitous naturally occurring phenomenon responsible for the occasional whiting events   soilsediment cementation and stromatolite genesis .

inspired by its natural capability to cement sands soils and minerals and improve the mechanical properties of porous materials microbial carbonate precipitation is envisioned as a promising biotechnology in stone monument restoration  .

due to the fact that carbonate precipitation is highly influenced by environmental chemistry and bacterial metabolic activity the spatial heterogeneity of microbial diversity may directly impact the mechanical and esthetic properties of the monument.

aragonite the orthorhombic calcium carbonate was tentatively ascribed at30.6 2th in sample awesti2b being near the estimated 3 detection limit for x-ray powder diffraction.

the intensity scale in shows a relatively poor crystallinity for all the phases whereas the background hump in the 12-18 2th interval may account for amorphous calcium carbonate still present in the samples.

the sem analyses were performed in order to confirm the ftir and xrd data and to determine the calcium carbonate crystal morphology.

furthermore the analysis of microbial colonies revealed mineralized bacterial cells   that form porous micrometer-sized calcium carbonate sheets .

one common natural occurring biomineralization process is the microbial carbonate precipitation which has been vastly studied and described in different environments such as caves soils sediments aquifers and open-water areas as playing an important role in the cementation of these ecosystems    .

over the pastfew years microbial carbonate precipitation has emerged as a promising method for conservation and restoration of limestone artwork by offering multiple advantages in comparison with traditional procedures   .

with high carbonatogenetic ability and that produce a precipitate similar to the substrate such as myxococcus xanthus   and some pseudomonas and bacillus species   a more advantageous method relies on using the resident microbiota that has the ability to induce calcium carbonate precipitation   .

