p. notoginseng roots were harvested from both healthy and root-rot-diseased plants.abbreviations ak available potassium ap available phosphorus hn hydrolysable nitrogen h1 1-year-old healthy notoginseng rhizospheric soil om organic matter r-d2 2-year-old root-rot-diseased notoginseng endogenous r-d3 3-year-old root-rot-diseased notoginseng endogenous r-h1 1-year-old healthy notoginseng endogenous r-h2 2-year-old healthy notoginseng endogenous r-h3 3-year-old healthy notoginseng endogenous s-ck blank control soil s-d2 2-year-old root-rot-diseased notoginseng rhizospheric soil s-d3 3-year-old root-rot-diseased notoginseng rhizospheric soil s-fo2 2-year fallow soil s-fo6 6-year fallow soil s-h2 2-year-old healthy notoginseng rhizospheric soil s-h3 3-year-old healthy notoginseng rhizospheric soil tk total potassium tn total nitrogen tp total phosphorus.root-rot-diseased plants are characterized by short plant height and gradual yellowing of the leaves.

the five conditions were as follows 1-year-old s-h1 2-year-old s-h2 and 3-year-old s-h3 healthy p. notoginseng rhizospheric soils 2-year-old root-rot-diseased p. notoginseng notogin- seng rhizospheric soil s-d2 and 3-year-old root-rot- diseased p. notoginseng rhizospheric soil s-d3.

the five root conditions were as follows 1-year-old r-h1 2-year-old r-h2 and 3-year-old r-h3 healthy p. notoginseng roots 2-year-old-root-rot diseased notoginseng roots r- d2 and 3-year-old root-rot-diseased notoginseng roots r- d3.

bacterial diversity was higher in healthy p. notoginseng rhizospheric soils and roots than in those of diseased p. notoginseng.

it is used to treat cardiovascular diseases inflammation various body pains trauma and internal and external bleeding due to injury in addition p. notoginseng roots are utilized as raw materials in more than 400 chinese medicinal products and 1300 companies including nearly all chinese pharma- ceutical companies obstacles to continuous cropping have become a major constraint for the cultivation of p. notoginseng.

the planting fallow or rotation period is generally longer than 6 years that is after harvest a p. notoginseng plant cannot be planted again within 6 years the primary obstacle to the continuous cropping of p. notoginseng is root-rot disease which is highly destructive and result in yield reduction and low content of the active ingredients according to a recent survey root-rot diseases are always accompanied by bacterial pathogens including pseudomonas sp.

among these bacteria thehighly abundant pseudomonas which was also isolated from healthy p. notoginseng and exhibited the strongest pathoge- nicity was more abundant in diseased than in healthy plants therefore further attention should be paid to this genus.the genus of panax plants specifically p. ginseng p. notoginseng and p. quinquefolius are primarily reared in artificial shade for several years.

received 21 july 2016  revised 10 november 2016  accepted 16 december 2016 doi 10.1002jobm.201600464research paper diversity and composition of rhizospheric soil and root endogenous bacteria in panax notoginseng during continuous cropping practicesyong tan1 yinshan cui1 haoyu li1 anxiu kuang2 xiaoran li1yunlin wei1 xiuling ji11 faculty of life science and technology kunming university of science and technology kunming china2 department of biology university of texas rio grande valley edinburg texascorrespondenceyunlin wei and xiuling ji faculty of life science and technology kunming university of science and technology no.

panax notoginseng is negatively affected by continuous cropping and becomes vulnerable to attack by microbial pathogens.

in the present study culture-independent illumina miseq was used to investigate root-endophytic and rhizospheric bacteria in response to continuous cropping of p. notoginseng.

numbers of rhizospheric bacteria decreased with continuous p. notoginseng cropping while the effects of continuous cropping on endophytic bacteria were not statistically significant.

the genera pseudomonas rhodoplanes candidatus solibacter and streptomyces were dominant in p. notoginseng rhizospheric soils and roots.

notoginseng.

in general continuous cropping practices for p. notoginseng and severe root-rot disease notably affected the community structure and the diversity of rhizospheric and root endophytic bacteria.

our study elucidated the ecological significance of microbial communities in healthy plant maintenance and our results may inform biological control strategies during the continuous cropping of p. notoginseng.keywo rds continuous cropping endogenous bacteria panax notoginseng rhizobacteriaj.

