the escherichia-predominant enterotype enterotype 1 had a higher shannon index than the other enterotypes p  0.001. facultative and anaerobic bacteria showed an overwhelming majority abundance of 98.3 on average with a strong negative correlation p  0.0001 r -0.94. it has been shown that anaerobic bacteria are the predominant bacteria at the endpoint of the gastrointes- tinal tract in our study loss of anaerobicity was observed in the escherichia-predominant enterotype in which the abundance of facultative bacteria was signifi- cantly higher than that of the other enterotypes p  0.0001 fold change  2.5 and significantly corresponded with a lower number of anaerobic bacteria p  0.0001.the facultativeanaerobic ratio defined as the fa ratio was also significantly larger in enterotype 1 than in the other two enterotypes p  0.0001 fold change  3.85.enterotype phenotypesthe questionnaire given to the study subjects included questions about three major determinants regarding the samples.

this decision tree interpreted five rules 1 if the abundance of prevotellaceae in a sample was greater than 0.26 the sample was considered enter- otype 3 2 if the abundance of prevotellaceae in a sam- ple was lesser than 0.26 and the fa ratio was greater than 0.2 the sample was considered enterotype 1 3 if the abundance of prevotellaceae in a sample was lesser than 0.26 the abundance of bacteroidaceae was greater than 0.33 and the fa ratio was lesser than 0.28 the sample was considered enterotype 2 4 if the abundanceof prevotellaceae and bacteroidaceae in a sample was lesser than 0.26 and 0.33 respectively the abundance of enterobacteriaceae was greater than 0.10 and the fa ratio was lesser than than 0.28 the sample was consid- ered enterotype 3 and 5 if the abundance of prevoteal- laceae bacteroidaceae and enterobacteriaceae in a sample was lesser than 0.26 0.33 and 0.10 respectively and the fa ratio was lesser than 0.28 the sample was considered enterotype 2. rules 1-3 categorized 94.3 samples into three enterotypes.

illustrate the relative abundance of bacteria among the three enterotypes.

these results correspond to the bacterial abundance in enterotypes 2 and 3.the shannon diversity index and composition of facul- tative anaerobic and aerobic bacteria in the three enter- otypes are shown in figs.

there were three criteria for identifying significant bacteria in the groups the first was relative abundance  1 in at least one group the second was fold change in relative abun- dance between two groups  log23 or  log213.

thus variations in bacteria among different samples can be determined by comparing their quantitative profiles in 2011 three enterotypes of the human gut micro- biome were identified from 261 human fecal samples from european individuals.

figure shows the predominance of the three most abundant bacteria in the three enterotypes.

the third was p value  0.05. in order to construct a predict- ive model for classifying the three enterotypes of the stool samples 181 stool samples were separated into two sets the training set contained 106 samples which were from individuals who provided complete informa- tion on the questionnaire and the independent testing set contained 75 samples which were from those who did not provide complete information.

the abundance of escherichia was almost similar in both enterotypes 2 and 3 the abundance of bacteroides in enterotype 1 was higher than that in enterotype 3 and the abundance of prevotella in enterotype 1 was higher than that in enterotype 2. the proportion of bacteroides was inversely correlated with that of prevotella p  0.001 r  - 0.85 fig.

two metabolic pathways are related to terpenoid biosynthesis three path- ways are related to infections such as virus and parasite two pathways are associated with cancer and p53 dna re- pair system ko04610 is related to innate immune system.classification of enterotypesto construct the decision tree model for classifying three enterotypes 12 features were collected from 106 stool samples.

the major bacteria in these enterotypes were bacteroides prevotella and ruminococcus this finding was subsequently validated by another ap- proach using the same hmp dataset however after identifying the long-term dietary habits in subjects another study only observed bacteroides and prevotella enterotypes in their dataset and reported that ruminococcus was anabundant bacteria identified in the fecal samples were bacteroides prevotella and enterobacteriaceae and their correlation with dietary habits was confirmed.

in enterotypes 1 and 3 the major bacteria were bacteroides escheri- chia and prevotella which accounted for over half of the bacteria.

in contrast in enterotype 2 prevotella were not the most abundant bacteria the most abundantbacteria in this enterotype were bacteroides which accounted for almost half of the bacteria.

moreover the abundance of bacteria at the family level was similar to that at the genus level fig.

the microbial interaction network showed three bacteria escherichia salmonella and klebsiella which belong to the same family enterobacteriaceae.

