cryoconite holes were therefore naturally spatially clustered with groups of holes close to one another on flat areas on ridges well separated from those in other flat areas on the same or on a different ridge.we sampled cryoconite from holes in four separated areas fig.. due to difficulties in moving on the surface of baltoro holes in different areas were samples on different days fig.. areas 1 2 and 3 were sampled on 29 and 30 june and 1 july respectively while area 4 was sampled on 9 july 2013. this sampling design forced by logistic con- straints implied that we could not disentangle the effects of spatial disposition of holes with those of short-term days temporal variation in the structure of bacterial communities.

further studies are therefore needed to gain insight into the processes assembling the microbial communi- ties of cryoconite in temperate mountain glaciers the geo- graphical variation in the structure of bacterial communities living in these environments and the potential impact of sur- face bacterial communities on glacier mass balance  .in this study we aimed at contributing to filling this gap of knowledge by describing the structures of the microbial com- munities of 30 cryoconite holes sampled on baltoro glacier karakoram and by investigating the ecological processes explaining the spatial diversity of these bacterial communities.

microb ecol 2017 73827-837 doi 10.1007s00248-016-0914-6diversity and assembling processes of bacterial communities in cryoconite holes of a karakoram glacierroberto ambrosini 1  federica musitelli 1  federico navarra1  ilario tagliaferri1  isabella gandolfi 1  giuseppina bestetti 1  christoph mayer2  umberto minora3  roberto sergio azzoni3  guglielmina diolaiuti3  claudio smiraglia3 andrea franzetti1received 7 june 2016  accepted 9 december 2016  published online 21 december 2016 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2016abstract cryoconite holes are small ponds that form on the surface of glaciers that contain a dark debris the cryoconite at the bottom and host active ecological communities.

we then ran separate rdas on hellinger-transformed otu relative abun- dances for each area by including as predictors 1 ph which was the only environmental condition that significantly affected the structure of bacterial communities of cryoconite holes see b e 2 utm coordinates accounting for spatial trends t through the whole area and 3 pcnm variables ac- counting for spatial patterns at smaller spatial scales than the whole area p. finally we used variation partitioning to quantify the variation in the bacterial community structures explained separately and jointly by e t and p.resultscomposition of bacterial communities in cryoconite holesthe number of sequences obtained from each sample ranged between 32912 and 470288. overall we observed 491otus in 30 cryoconite holes.

importantly to the best of our knowledge microbial communities of cryoconite holes on karakoram glaciers have been investigated in one previous paper only .materials and methodsstudy area field methods and environmental datacryoconite holes were sampled on the surface of baltoro glacier close to gasherbrum base camp gbc approximate coordinates 35deg41'07'' n 76deg38'52'' e fig.. baltoro is one of the largest glaciers in the karakoram range with a maxi- mum length of 62 km and an area of 524 km2 including all connected tributaries .

variation in bacterial communities among different sampling areas of the glacier could be ex- plained by divergent selective processes driven by variation in environmental conditions particularly ph which was the only environmental variable that significantly affected the structure of bacterial communities.

betaproteobacteria represented 18-94 of sequences at each hole while alphaproteobacteria represented only 0.42-15.variation of bacterial communities in cryoconite holesrda indicated that the structure of bacterial communities changed significantly among the four areas table .

no significant difference among areas was observed when we removed area 4 from the analyses kh22  4.808 p  0.090.spatial patterns within study areasthe analyses conducted within areas 1 and 4 revealed no variation in the structure of the bacterial communities according both to spatial trends f27  2.089 p  0.073 and to spatial patterns assessed by pcnm f45  1.309 p  0.272. these analyses also revealed that ph significantly affected the struc- ture of bacterial communities of area 1 f18  2.490 p  0.037 but not those of area 4 f18  1.053 p  0.337.indicator taxathe indicator taxa analysis identified only 12 otus signifi- cantly associated to one area or to a combination of areas table s1.

high abundance of betaproteobacteria was also found in arctic snow and ice communities where this taxon represented up to the 56 of the microbial communities .

variation in bacterial communities is explained by divergent selective processes driven by variation in environ- mental conditions particularly of ph which was the only environmental variable that significantly affected the structure of bacterial communities.

alternatively bacterial communities may have changed during the 10 days elapsed between the sampling of area 1 and area 4 because ofseasonal changes of bacteria communities .

in this study we investigated the structure of bacterial communities of cryoconite holes of baltoro glacier a large 62 km in length and 524 km2 of surface glacier of the karakoram by high- throughput sequencing of the v5-v6 hypervariable regions of the 16s rrna gene.

we found that betaproteobacteria dom- inated bacterial communities with large abundance of genera polaromonas probably thanks to its highly versatile metabo- lism and limnohabitans which may have been favoured by the presence of supraglacial lakes in the area where cryoconite holes were sampled.

in contrast bacte- rial communities of samples stored with a chemical preserva- tive significantly differed from those analysed after sampling and from those of frozen samples .we also estimated oxygenic phototrophic activity and ox- ygen respiration in cryoconite holes on the days of sampling using the light and dark bottle technique .

significance of this latter fraction is not testable legendre and legendre 1998among environmental variables only ph significantly af- fected the structure of bacterial communities in cryoconite holes table  fig.

