moreover recent study on urinary microbiota has also detected chitinophagaceae both in mid-stream urine and vaginal fluid samples.in conclusion we report that although vaginal microbiota at labor resembled microbiota during pregnancy bacteria associated with cst iv were significantly overrepresented.

openreceived 30 august 2017accepted 4 december 2017 published xx xx xxxxdiversity of vaginal microbiota increases by the time of labor onsetekaterina avershina 1 silje slangsvold1 melanie rae simpson 2 ola storro2 roar johnsen2 torbjorn oien2  knut rudi1vaginal microbiota is an important early source of bacterial colonization for newborns.

however vaginal microbiota may undergo rapid changesand we lack large studies of vaginal microbiota during labor.

however since only one out of five negative controls was amplified and the number of sequencing reads in this sample was low we did not exclude these otus from the dataset.discussionto our knowledge our study is the first to describe the vaginal microbiota at the point of admission to hospital for labor in a large cohort of women n  105 as well as at the 36th gestation week n  230. in concordance with previous observations l. crispatus cst i l. iners cst iii and l. jensenii cst v were the most commonly identified residents of the vaginal microbiota.

since prenatal hormonal changes might contribute to the differences in the microbiota we believe that this can indicate that vaginal microbiota changes shortly before labor onset and then takes long time to be recovered back to its non-pregnant state.

however only a few small studies have investigated the composition of vaginal microbiota during labor.

although individuals' vaginal microbiota was stable overtime several bacterial families which are characteristic of mixed community state type cst iv were overrepresented in vaginal swabs sampled at labor.

among the women who switched their vaginal microbiota from one cst to another approximately half shifted towards cst iv.

probiotic consumption did not alter vaginal microbiota.vaginal microbiota of women can generally be separated into five vaginal bacterial community state types csts that seem to be dependent on ethnic and biogeographical background.

whilst cst iv can be found in healthy women it is often linked to high nugent scores and bacterial vaginosis which in turn is associated with increased risk of preterm birth and contraction of sexually transmit- ted infections.the vaginal microbiota plays a major role in initial colonization of the infant gut.

several large cohort studies have described vaginal microbiota during pregnancy.

among women who had a vaginal microbiota that changed from one cst to another we also show that it was more common to switch to cst iv than to other csts.

all women participated in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled probiotic intervention studythe probiotics in the prevention of allergy among children in trondheim propact but the probiotic consumption did not lead to significant changes in vaginal microbiota composition.methodsstudy cohort.

the dataset generated during the current study can be made available upon request to the corresponding author.resultsgeneral description of the vaginal microbiota.

there were no associations between cst type at labor onset and birthweight of the child fdr  0.05 for each cst.vaginal microbiota changes by the time of labor onset.

