.caporaso jg kuczynski j stombaugh j bittinger k bushman fd costello ek fierer n gonzalez pena ag goodrich jk gordon ji huttley ga kelley st kinghts d koenig je ley re lozupone ca mcdonald d muegge bd pirrung m reeder j jrs turnbaugh pj walters wa widmann j yatsunenko t zaneveld j knight r. 2010. qiime allows analysis of high-throughput community sequencing data.

the fecal microbiota and metabolome were assessed immediately prior to antibiotic treatment baseline or time 1 t1 after 14 days of antibiotic treatment during the course of antibiotic treatment t2 and 9 days following the termination of antibiotics recovery t3.

the fecal microbial community of mice was analyzed immediately before treatment baseline t1 and after 14 days of antibiotic treatment t2 as well as at 9 days after antibiotic treatment t3 to analyze for recovery from antibiotics.

statistical significance between the control and antibiotic groups for each time point was analyzed based on the p value of the permutation tests at a significance level of 0.05. c control cip ciprofloxacin vi vancomycin-imipenem.compositions between the groups did not differ significantly prior to the antibiotic treatment period table s1.

analysis of the distance to a group's centroid permuta- tional analysis of the homogeneity of group dispersions permdisp also revealed no significant difference in the levels of the homogeneity of dispersions of the microbial community between the control group and the ciprofloxacin t  1.245 permutation test p value pperm  0.387 or vancomycin-imipenem t  1.451 pperm  0.328 group at baseline .within 14 days of antibiotic treatment the fecal microbial compositions between the control and antibiotic groups were significantly different pperm  0.0001 square root estimated components of variation ecv  41.73 9951 permutations table s1.

vancomycin-imipenem also resulted in a significant difference in the fecal microbi- ota compositions t  10.43 pperm  0.0003 5043 permutations and significantlyfig 3 lefse comparison analysis between the control and ciprofloxacin or vancomycin-imipenem groups at the end of antibiotic treatment a or b respectively or 9 days after cessation of antibiotic treatment c or d respectively.

s2.in the vancomycin-imipenem group the levels of microbial richness evenness and diversity significantly increased 9 days after antibiotic cessation compared to the levels at antibiotic cessation p  0.008 in all cases wilcoxon test but did not reach baseline levels p  0.031 in all cases .

such discrepancies between the microbiota and metabolome-level antibiotic effects are a further indication of functional redundancy in the intestinal microbiome the need to examine both composition and function in order to fully characterize the impacts of antibiotic therapy and the potential influence of antibiotics on host physiology.our study had a number of limitations that must be taken into consideration.

one fecal pellet wastaken from each mouse at three time points t1 prior to commencement of antibiotic treatment t2 at termination of treatment after 14 days on antibiotics and t3 9 days after antibiotic treatment ceased.

.fu j bonder mj cenit mc tigchelaar ef maatman a dekens jam brandsma e marczynska j imhann f weersma rk franke l poon twxavier rj gevers d hofker mh wijmenga c zhernakova a.

.schwartz bs pollak j bailey-davis l hirsch ag cosgrove se nau c kress am glass ta bandeen-roche k. 2016. antibiotic use and child- hood body mass index trajectory.

.rogers gb kozlowska j keeble j metcalfe k fao m dowd se mason aj mcguckin ma bruce kd.

.yap iks li jv saric j martin fp davies h wang y wilson id nicholson jk utzinger j marchesi jr holmes e. 2008. metabonomic and microbi- ological analysis of the dynamic effect of vancomycin-induced gut microbiota modification in the mouse.

.ren w chen s yin j duan j li t liu g feng z tan b yin y wu g. 2014. dietary arginine supplementation of mice alters the microbial popula- tion and activates intestinal innate immunity.

.xiao f huang z li h yu j wang c chen s meng q cheng y gao x li j liu y guo f. 2011. leucine deprivation increases hepatic insulin sensitivity via gcn2mtors6k1 and ampk pathways.

