epsilonproteobacteria also supply nutrition to the host by metabolizing sulfur compounds in some deep-sea hydrothermal vent invertebrates such as shrimps or crabs - and tubeworms .in addition invertebrate-associated bacteria in hydrothermal vents not only have host spec- ificity but also organ specificity within the host's gut or gill chamber - consistent with their nutrient sources  and challenging hydrothermal vent environments .many studies have been conducted to explore the gill-associated microbiota in hydrothermal vent invertebrates.

the phylum firmicutes were also predominant in the intestine of the hydrothermal vent crab.to further identify the specific bacterial taxa associated with the gill and intestine of hydro- thermal vent crab clearly a hierarchically clustered heatmap was selected to get an overview of the identified connections among the studied samples.

research articlediversity and characterization of bacteria associated with the deep-sea hydrothermal vent crab austinograea sp.

open accesscitation zhang n song c wang m liu y hui m cui z 2017 diversity and characterization of bacteria associated with the deep-sea hydrothermal vent crab austinograea sp.

in this study the microbiota attached to the gill and intestine of the hydrothermal vent crab austinograea sp.

the chinese mitten crab eriocheir sinen- sis h. milne edwards 1853 crustacea decapoda brachyura is a fresh water crab species however spawns and mates in saline water.

the swimming crab portunus trituberculatus miers 1876- crustacea decapoda brachyura is a sea-dwelling crab inhabiting in the sea- floor with sand or pebbles.

e for e. sinensis p for p. trituberculatus the second letter represents tissues- g for gill i for intestine.highest microbial diversity was observed in the gill of the hydrothermal vent crab 5.18 in shannon index and the lowest bacterial diversity was found in intestine of austinograea sp.

obviously separated from those in the other two crabs as shown in p  0.05. this means that samples from the hydrothermal vent possess bacterial communities different from those in the samples from the shallow water.to understand the differences among the bacterial groups in the gill and intestine from the three species of crabs lefse was used to perform the comparisons among three crab species.relative abundance of predominant bacterial communities in the gills and intestines of austinograea sp.

twenty-two unique bacterial catego- ries were found in the intestine of the hydrothermal vent crab .

thenmds plot showing microbial community differences between the hydrothermal vent crab austinograea sp.

in the hydrothermal vent of the manus basin epsilonproteo- bacteria are the predominant bacterial class in the sediments  and gastropods .moreover epsilonproteobacteria are also found in the shallow-water hydrothermal vent crabs and sea water .

the presence of these bacteria reflects the adap- tation of the hydrothermal vent crab to extreme environments by associated microorganisms.as a sulfur-oxidizer  the genus leucothrix belonging to the class gammaproteobac- teria was observed to show higher abundance in the gill of austinograea sp.

since moritella species are also facultative anaerobes moritella strains were identified from the intestines of hydrothermal vent crab as expected .

the genus psychrilyobacter belonging to the family fusobacteriaceae was a specific microbiota with a higher abundance in the gill and intestine of the deep-sea hydrothermal vent crab austino- graea sp.

