2015.there is a high diversity of pgpb associated with the rhizosphere and shoot of sugarcane and the knowledge of the diversity of pgpb associated with sugarcane is an important step to prospect bacteria responsible for promoting bnf and plant growth and consequently improving the crop productivity pisa et al.

interestingly this group revealed an unknown diversity of bacteria associated with sugarcane and could represent species with some biotechnological potential.in our study the high number of isolates found in the stalks and leaves of sugarcane indicates that these parts of the plant can host a high bacterium diversity as also reported by gomes et al.

this finding is important for sugarcane because its propagation occurs through a vegetative way and thus other plants can disseminate these pgpbs strongly.despite the high similarity found between isolates using the simple matching coefficient some isolates presented high genetic difference considering a cutoff of 80. this cutoff may be considered high and can differentiate the isolates phylogenetically as reported by antunes 2010 studying the diversity of bacteria in phaseolus lunatus l. where the cutoff was 80. we found bacillus as the most important genus associated with the stalk and leaves of sugarcane.

2003.although in low occurrence methylobacterium was found in the tissue of sugarcane and this result corroborates with previous studies that reported this genus associated with sugarcane madhaiyan et al.

2012 identified in the roots of sugarcane six isolates of brevibacillus with antifungal activity production of hormones and phosphate solubilization.interestingly the high dominance of bacteria from the phylum firmicutes bacillus and paenibacillus was found and it disagrees with previous studies which found proteobacteria burkholderia and herbaspirilllum as the most abundant phylum associated with sugarcane reis junior et al.

finally our results highlight that there could be more distinct pgpb diversity in tissues than in roots of sugarcane and suggest a novel and important source of new bacterium species for agricultural use as plant growth promoters.conclusionsthe stalk and leave tissues of sugarcane revealed a high and distinct pgpb diversity associated with this crop.

bragantia 66 481-490.gargi ne supriva j and prasad dt 2014. bacillus subtilis isolated from sugarcane root rhizosphere a potential bioinoculum to alleviate salinity stress in sugarcane cultivation.

the sugarcane saccharum spp presents economic importance mainly for tropical regions being an important brazilian commodity.

however this crop is strongly dependent on fertilizers mainly nitrogen n. this study assessed the plant growth-promoting bacteria pgpb associated with sugarcane that could be used as aj.e.l.

we evaluated the genetic diversity of pgpb in the plant tissue of sugarcane varieties rb 867515 rb 1011 and rb 92579. the primer box-a1r was used to differentiate the similar isolated and further sequencing 16s rrna ribosomal gene.

the 16s rrna gene showed the presence of seven different genera distributed into four groups the genus bacillus followed by paenibacillus 20 burkholderia 14 herbaspirillum 6pseudomonas 6 methylobacterium 6 and brevibacillus 3. the molecular characterization of endophytic isolates from sugarcane revealed a diversity of bacteria colonizing this plant with a possible biotechnological potential to be used as inoculant and biofertilizers.introductionkey words endophytic bacteria box-pcr genetic diversitybiological nitrogen fixation 16s rrna genesugarcane saccharum spp is an important crop cultivated in several countries from latin america and the caribbean.

2011. nowadays brazil is the leader in sugarcane production with assets of 10 million hectares and an average yield around 74 mgha ibge 2016.this crop depends on soil nutrients mainly nitrogen n and previous studies have shown that the biological nitrogen fixation bnf may contribute significantly for the total n required by the crop taule et al.

2011. on the hand the number of species associated with the rhizosphere of sugarcane and identified as pgpb has increased considerably in recent years due to the development of molecular tools chauhan et al.

2015. on the other hand there is little information about pgpb associated with leaves and stalk of sugarcane in tropical regions.

therefore this study was carried out to isolate and characterize promising pgpbs with potential as n fixers and growth promoters in sugarcane.

