the c-terminal regions of five rhs genes were similar to previously characterized toxin domains including three domains associated with toxins of the hnhendonuclease vii family an rnase toxin domain and an adp-ribosyltransferase domain table s4 whereas the remaining 11 rhs proteins may contain novel toxins.fig 4 s. alvi wkb2 has three rhs loci with architectures congruent with extensive toxin domain replacement.

our results suggest that coevolution among bacterial species in the bee gut has favored toxin diversification and mainte- nance of t6ss machinery and demonstrate the importance of antagonistic interac- tions within host-associated microbial communities.keywords apis mellifera bombus rhs toxin snodgrassella alvi coevolutionnovemberdecember 2017 volume 8 issue 6 e01630-17r 1ost-associated microbiota are often complex communities comprised of hundreds of species.

toxins are mostly shared within a species s. alvi or g. apicola rather than between species which may reflect more frequent gene transfer between conspecific bacterial strains or indicate that this toxin family is predominantly used for intraspecific rather than interspecific competition in these two gut symbionts.rhs toxin and immunity gene pairs are strongly linked.

furthermore the potential for gene exchange in the bee gut is supported by our finding of near-identical mobile elements in divergent bacteria  as well as previous evidence from whole-genome analyses  and the presence of identical antibiotic resistance deter- minants in g. apicola and s. alvi .further sampling will be necessary to explain the observed toxin distribution pattern  as it is not yet clear what factors allow for the exchange of toxin genes between strains.

some toxins are shared with gilliamella apicola a coresi- dent gut symbiont implicating horizontal gene transfer as a source of toxin diversity in the bee gut.

such genes might facilitate the transfer and recombina- torial capture of rhs sequences across gut microbiota strains but further work will be necessary to determine whether these integrases contribute to the transfer of toxin genes between bee gut microbes.discussiont6ss-mediated competition is likely to be an integral component of the ecology ofs.

though single strains of bacte- roides fragilis dominate the human gut microbiome multiple s. alvi strains coexist within the bee gut  and interactions between these strains may contribute to increased toxin diversification in s. alvi.

we find that s. alvi rhs loci have a conserved architecture consistent with the c-terminal displacement model of toxin diversification with rhs toxins toxin fragments and cognate immunity genes that are expressed and confer strong fitness effects in vivo.

rhs-family genes encode large polymorphic proteins with variable c-terminal toxin domains and conserved core regions that contain the rhsyd repeats characteristic of this toxin family .

in contrast to cargo effectors which are often classified by their cellular targets the rhs toxin family is defined by a core region containing characteristic rhs repeats and includes proteins with variable c-terminal toxin domains that affect a variety of cellular targets within prokaryotes and eukaryotes .

the highly conserved dpxg18dpxg motif which is found at the end of the conserved core region  was used to predict the start of the c-terminal toxin domain in each rhs gene and the conserved domain database cdd  was used to search for similarity to previously characterized toxin domains.

a dashed line indicates the location of the conserved dpxg18dpxg motif which marks the start of the c-terminal toxin domain in each toxin.

similar growth patterns were observed for cells expressing rhs1 and rhs1i or rhs2 and rhs2i and s3c and d though cells containing rhs1 exhibit much slower growth and often fail to grow even in the absence of toxin gene induction.as our rna-seq results indicated that t6ss expression was upregulated in vivo  we examined whether this also held true for rhs toxin expression.

each toxin node represents a unique c-terminal toxin domain derived by clustering at 90 nucleotide identity size is proportional to number of sequences in a cluster.

frequency-dependent selection may prevent rare toxins from being lost while the metabolic expense of maintaining t6sss and toxins is likely to constrain the diversity of competitive machinery encoded by a single cell ensuring that fluctuating selection dynamics remain predominant .as in several enterobacterial species  the rhs loci of s. alvi are comprised of a large complete rhs toxin gene at the 5 end followed by its cognate immunity gene and then a series of truncated rhs genes or orphaned toxin domains along with their immunity genes.

