individual otu variations were tested using the beta-bino- mial test  and diversity index shannon index variation by the anova test.qpcr analysisif differences in the diversity index were observed between dwell-table 1different steps of read filtering.number of readstable 3assignment and otu picking error rates of reads on standard mixes.read numbers otu numbersings targeted qpcr were performed on dna extracts from dwellings as previously described  for accurate quantification of involved species.resultsits2 amplification and data analysisap amplicons pool em equimolar mix nem non equimolar mix.7000600050004000for 1418 samples pcr1 gave sufficient amounts of amplicons to be sequenced.

the species assignment of interesting otu must be validated by comparing representative otu sequences against the general database.calibrated sample evaluationof the 34 otu in the calibrated samples  the 11 most predominant corresponded to the species added to the samples.

the value of using a quantitative pcr in parallel of ngs has already been mentioned in other works .dna metabarcoding using the its2 region as a fungal barcodecoupled with edc sampling provide an overview of fungal contamina- tion in dwellings and will probably allow a better understanding of interactions between microbial communities.

the others are due to mistagging or contamination sequences of others species maximum of 610000 reads numbers 2033500 for ap sample or variant otu from the 11 added species with reads similarity below to the 97 threshold maximum of 31000 reads numbers 9833467 for em sample as present in .on the sample containing a. fumigatus dna we observed only 6 10000 reads assigned to other otu principally due to abundant otu in other samples and are probably due to sample identification errors with a mismatch of the sample with its index mistaggingcontamina- tion line in .

their work focused on bacterial communities in 11 building environments in the united states and finland and in six experimental chambers but it also evaluated fungal communities in three homes in the united states using its1 amplification and illumina miseq sequencing.the aim our study was to evaluate how well dna metabarcoding characterizes fungal communities with edc samplings.

taxonomic assignments were performed using the rdp classifier  with a homemade reference database containing fungal and plant its2 extractions of the genbank database 27606 sequences in 11874 different fungal species.

thus the fungal communities of 14 dwellings eastern france franche- comte region were analyzed by illumina miseq technology after amplification of the its2 region.using the standard samples of 11 species of yeasts and molds allowed us to validate the operational taxonomic units otu assignment.

our work consisted in calibrating samples to assess the reliability of the method and our bioinformatics analysis and characterizing samples collected with edc in healthy buildings with no reported mold problems to check the use of dna metabarcoding with our environmental approach that emphasizes the use of edc.material and methodscalibrated sampleseleven fungal species with a recognized role in human health allergy infection toxicity were cultivated aspergillus fumigatus penicillium chrysogenum wallemia sebi lichtheimia corymbifera cryptoccocus albidus mucor racemosus fusarium solani stachybotrys chartarum cladosporium sphaerospernum alternaria alternata and eurotium amstelodami.

amplicons from standard and dwelling samples were equally mixed and sequenced on illumina miseq v3 2 x 300 bp by microsynth company switzerland.data analysisraw reads were assembled into contigs and filtered using the mothur pipeline  between 250 and 500 pb in length ambiguous bases limited to 2 and homopolymer length limited to 10. reads were then pre-clustered using sumaclust   at 0.99. clusters containing at least 5 reads were kept.

operational taxonomic units otu were constructed using the needleman distance and average neighbor clustering at a distance of 0.03.rarefaction curves diversity index and count data were calculated using mothur.

these preliminary results seem to indicate that wood heating can enhance the prevalence of e. nigrum.discussionthis work has allowed us to describe indoor environment using a dna metabarcoding approach applied to edc and to validate our analyses using standard samples.

these calibrated samples also showed a low amplification bias a low rate of sequencing errors and the semi-quantitative nature of the technique.only one species from the calibrated samples lichtheimia corymbifera was less amplified probably due to the presence of two mismatches in its3 primer.edc analysis identified 3594 otu with 75 of reads corresponding to 30 genera.

consequently sub-sampling reduced the total number of otu to 3110. from 554 to 1037 otu were found in dwellings with a mean of 757 and 97 otu were retrieved in all dwellings.a phylotype analysis was conducted at the genus level.

moreover a lower diversity shannon index  4 was found in dwellings with wood heating as compared to others anova test p  0.05 b. finally a more precise analysis of modified otu by heating systems was conducted beta binomial test p  0.01. as shown in c the lower diversity found in wood heated dwellings was due to an increase in epicoccum nigrum otu and a decrease in the following otu penicillium chysogen- umrubenscommune trametes versicolorochracea aspergillus conicusfig.

the concentration of all fungal dna was calibrated to 10 ngml except for a. alternata and e. amstelodami for which dna extraction using the dneasy plant mini kit gave dna concentrations under 10 ngml.

