immunity 44 647 - 658.do the microbiota influence vaccines and protective immunity to pathogens issues of sovereignty federalism and points-testing in the prokaryotic and eukaryotic spaces of the host-microbial superorganismandrew j. macphersoncold spring harb perspect biol 2018 doi 10.1101cshperspect.a029363 originally published online april 21 2017subject collectionimmune memory and vaccines great debateswhat is the predictive value of animal models for vaccine efficacy in humans consideration of strategies to improve the value of animal modelswhat is the predictive value of animal models for vaccine efficacy in humans rigorous simian immunodeficiency virus vaccine trials can beramin sedaghat herati and e. john wherryinstructivemauricio a. martins and david i. watkinswhat is the predictive value of animal models for vaccine efficacy in humans reevaluating the potential of mouse models for the human immune systemstephen c. jameson and david masopustdo memory cd4 t cells keep their cell-type programming plasticity versus fate commitment complexities of interpretation due to the heterogeneity of memory cd4 t cells including t follicular helper cellsshane crottydo memory cd4 t cells keep their cell-type programming plasticity versus fate commitment epigenome a dynamic vehicle for transmitting and recording cytokine signalingwhat is the predictive value of animal models for vaccine efficacy in humans the importance of bridging studies and species-independent correlates of protectionhana golding surender khurana and marina zaitsevado memory cd4 t cells keep their cell-type programming plasticity versus fate commitment t-cell heterogeneity plasticity and selection in humansfederica sallusto antonino cassotta daniel hoces et al.do the microbiota influence vaccines and protective immunity to pathogens issues of sovereignty federalism and points-testing in the prokaryotic and eukaryotic spaces of thejohn l. johnson and golnaz vahedihost-microbial superorganismandrew j. macphersondo the microbiota influence vaccines and protective immunity to pathogens if so is there potential for efficacious microbiota-based vaccinesdan r. littmando memory b cells form secondary germinal centers yes and nomark j. shlomchikdo the microbiota influence vaccines and protective immunity to pathogens engaging our endogenous adjuvantsnicholas collins and yasmine belkaiddo memory b cells form secondary germinal centers it dependskathryn a. pape and marc k. jenkinsfor additional articles in this collection see do memory b cells form secondary germinal centers impact of antibody class and quality of memory t-cell help at recallis it possible to develop cancer vaccines to neoantigens what are the major challenges and how can these be overcome neoantigens aslouise j. mcheyzer-williams chad dufaud andvaccine targets for cancermichael g. mcheyzer-williamsis a human cd8 t-cell vaccine possible and if so what would it take cd8 t-cell-mediated protective immunity and vaccination against enteric bacteriamarcelo b. szteinhaydn t. kissickis there natural killer cell memory and can it be harnessed by vaccination nk cell memory and immunization strategies against infectious diseases and cancerjoseph c. sun and lewis l. lanierfor additional articles in this collection see

do the microbiota influence vaccines and protective immunity to pathogensissues of sovereignty federalism and points-testing in the prokaryotic and eukaryotic spaces of thehost-microbial superorganismandrew j. macphersonmaurice mu ller laboratories dkf universitatsklinik fu r viszerale chirurgie und medizin uvcm inselspital university of bern 3010 bern switzerlandcorrespondence in contrast to live attenuated vaccines which are designed to induce immunity through a time-limited bloom in systemic tissues the microbiota is a persistent feature of body surfaces especially the intestine.

2013 and thedo the microbiota influence protective immunity to pathogensfigure 1. sampling of live organisms and microbial molecular products from the intestinal microbiota.

it is also a time when the microbiota is unstable with both immune responses and the microbiota composition being tuned by transferred maternal antibodies rogieret al.

for safety especially in view of the inevitability of longer-term genetic recombina- tion either the systems will have to be transitory or there will need to be excellent switches to eliminate aberrant responses.prospectsi have advanced the view that there are impor- tant differences between manipulating the im- mune system to eliminate the bloom of an in-fectious pathogen in which the immune system is trying to secure sovereignty of central tissues and using the federalism of persistent host-mi- crobial interactions for the same ends when mucosal immune responses are to a large extent gardening the microbiota to maintain mutual- ism.manipulating the microbiota is in itself a multidimensional problem of community structures and dietary conditions.

the immune responses to the microbiota are idiosyncratic depend- ing on the niche intimacy of different taxa and generally adapt the host to avoid overgrowth and maintain mutualism rather than to eliminate the organisms of that taxon.

immune responses to those members of the microbiota mutually adapted to intimate association at mucosal surfaces have attractive potential durability but for clinical use as persistent vehicles they would require personalization and engineered reversibility to manage the immune context and complications in individual human subjects.editors shane crotty and rafi ahmedadditional perspectives on immune memory and vaccines great debates available at copyright  2018 cold spring harbor laboratory press all rights reserved doi 10.1101cshperspect.a029363 cite this article as cold spring harb perspect biol 201810a0293631a.j.

yet this is in a setting in which we have good information thatthe benefits vastly outweigh the risks.in this essay i shall take the microbiota as meaning the stable consortia of microbes at body surfaces and not transitory or undefined changes associated with the consumption of preparations with limited evidence for biomed- ical effectiveness.

taking the yardstick of live organisms the permanence of the microbiota has huge durable potential for delivering health benefits.

whether the risks are reasonable will depend on the clinical situation an adult patient re- quiring salvage treatment from tumor in relapse or treatment of intractable inflammatory bowel disease contrasts considerably with manipulat- ing the microbiota of a healthy baby.federalism rather than sovereigntyin these days of brexit british exit and the political suggestions of building walls along borders let us start with biological sovereignty.

of course at first sight there is a fair distinction between the living spaces of the predominantlyprokaryotic microbiota and those of the eukary- otic cells of the host.

2011 which themselves have extensive mutual signaling properties effectively provide cross-governance between the microbiota and its host.

1. the extent of this cross-governance means that almost all organ systems in the mammalian body especially the immune system are profoundly shaped by the presence of the microbiota smith et al.

2007. compare germ- free and colonized animals the presence of a microbiota matures the hypoplastic germ-free secondary lymphoid structures increases mye- loid output from the bone marrow normalizes b-lymphocyte numbers and immunoglobulin ig levels and primes innate and adaptive com- ponents of mucosal immunity hooper et al.

2012. in animals that are born and bred in a colonized environment and microbes colonize body surfaces in early life there is very little in- gress of live microbiota organisms to central tis- sues.

