One such example of systemic control is mediated by con- stitutive antibody responses to the microbiota that not only provide protection against gut microbiota translocation but also against in- fections with unrelated pathogenic bacteria via recognition of conserved outer-membrane mol- ecules Zeng et al.

In the context of future vaccine trials it may be important to stratify individuals based on their microbiota profile and more importantly microbiota metabolism as well as host-genetic influences.

Thus it is conceivable that the commen- sal microbiota could be exploited to create an environment better equipped to not only at- tract memory cells but also to promote a met- abolic niche compatible with enhanced mem- ory formation and survival.HOST-MICROBIOTA DYSREGULATION AS AN UNDERLYING CAUSE OF VACCINE FAILUREThe role of the commensal microbiota could be particularly important when considering vac- cine-induced immune responses in low- to middle-income countries which are typically some of the worst affected by infection Valdez et al.

Indeed children from defined low-income ar- eas of the world have a distinct gut microbiota compared to those in high-income countries with the malnourished microbiota enriched in microbes with invasive andor inflammato- ry properties Yatsunenko et al.

Manipulation of microbe function or composition via diet alteration or microbiota engraftment may soon become a viable approach to control immunity and as such vaccine responses.

Going forward rationally designed vac- cines that take advantage of the inherent adjuvant properties of the microbiota could have a major impact on the prevention of disease.Editors Shane Crotty and Rafi AhmedAdditional Perspectives on Immune Memory and Vaccines Great Debates available at doi 10.1101cshperspect.a028860 Cite this article as Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol 201810a0288601N.

Collins and Y. Belkaidumans are inhabited by a diverse commen- sal microbiota that consists of bacteria fun-gi viruses and eukaryotic species Ley et al.

However in re- cent years it has become increasingly clear that the benefits derived by the host from commen- sals extend far beyond those that are metabolic with the microbiota shown to be critical in many aspects of human physiology health and disease Brestoff and Artis 2013 Belkaid and Hand 2014.

Of relevance to the present discussion the microbiota has been shown to play a central role in ensuring that cells of the immune system are appropriately regulated at steady state and in the context of infectious challenges Honda and Littman 2016.

The constitutive involvement of the microbiota in the regulation and function of the immune system supports the idea that vac- cine design and trials should be approached in the context of the constantdialogue between mi- crobes and the host an area of research that has been given little attention to date Ferreira et al.

