2013patients with ms and healthy individualsto etx is 10 times more frequent inmsindividuals with ms compared to healthy subjects indicating prior exposure toetx in ms population.pdc from patients with ms and pdc had lower levels of interferon-table 2 continued.authorsmaterialsmodels of diseasesconclusionsthe imbalance between the bacteria andtauschmann et al.

2009barnett et al.adults with primary progressive msmice with the strains oflactobacilluspatients with ms andmseaeselective cell killing cd20 proved effective in reducing disease activity in relapsing-remitting ms.the administration of probiotic lactic acid has a positive effect on the autoimmune disease by the production of il-10 and stimulation of treg cells.2009ochoa et al.other neurological diseasesmice after treatmentmsigg disrupted myelin in ms.antibiotic therapy can protect against2010with antibiotics and infected with b. fragiliseaeeae a similar effect is observed for b. fragilis commensal bacteria.farooqi et al.

199917 patients with relapsing-remitting ms 20 patients with progressive ms and 27 patients with other neurological diseases ondcns infections chlamydia pneumoniae is a common occurrence in patients with ms. although chlamydia pneumoniae may be a pathogenic factor of ms it may simply be a secondary infection of damaged tissues of the cns.cd40-cd154 interactions in the cns are key determinants for the development and progression of the disease.becher et al.

coprophilus in the intestinal microflora in patients with ms 61.effect of flora on cytokines in ms. an imbalance of intestinal bacteria intestinal epithelial cells and cells of the immune system in the intestinal mucosa can lead to over- stimulation of the immune system.

2013without ms concentration of lipid 624lipid 624 tlr2 ligand occurs in lower concentrations in patients with ms csf obtained from two tissues immunityrumah et al.

2014the increase of iga may be secondary to an increase in the intestinal absorption.patients with ms are characterized bymiyake et al.

the galt consists of organized cellular complexes peyer's patches and solitary lymphoid follicles and dispersed cellstable 1 the composition of human intestinal flora.the name of the bacteriathe amount of bacteriaage of occurrencethe origin of theinfluenceroleunfolding mucin whosestaphylococcus105 cfu ml-1acute prematuritycaesarean sectionpathogenicparts are used as food for the body.one of the first pathogens inhabiting the intestinal flora palmer et al.

pathological examination showed that the amount of mnc mononuclear cells in the spinal cord of mice was lower than those in the control group which was not treated.riccio and rossano reported that diet can influence the severity of ms in both relapsing-remitting ms and pri- mary progressive ms. diet can have an impact on symptoms of ms by controlling metabolic processes inflammatory cells and the composition of commensal intestinal microflora.

2011 josefowicz et al.unfolding mucin whichruminococcus6 105--1from the age of 3natural childbirthbeneficialhelps the intestine absorbbifidobacteria10 cfu ml10 to10 cfu mlfrom the first years of life if the child is breastfedmother's milkbeneficialthe fragments used as food for the body praesteng et al.

these observations suggest that populations of effector cells and regulatory t treg cells are involved in the pathogenesis of ms 53.pantazou et al.

the intestinal microflora of a 3-year-old child is identical to that of an adult  8. mariat et al.

2013healthy young peopleautoimmunethe intestinal immune system leading to overstimulation of the immune system.treg cells have inhibitory effects on the cells in autoimmune diseases.reichelt et al.

recent discoveries have shownin the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease 7-11. somethat specific microorganisms of the intestinal microflora can improve the clinical symptoms of eae that is strains of lactic acid bacteria can enhance the immunological activity of b cells and treg by increased production of il-10.according to miller et al.

patients with ms had reduced concentrations of faecalibacterium 1. further- more ms patients treated with glatiramer acetate showed an increase in bacteroidaceae faecalibacterium ruminococcus lactobacillaceae clostridium and other members of the class clostridiales when compared with untreated ms patients.abbreviationsatpadenosine triphosphate ccl4chemokine ligand 4 ccl5chemokine ligand 5cd4cluster of differentiation 4 cd8cluster of differentiation 8 cd39cluster of differentiation 39 cnscentral nervous system crpc-reactive proteindnadeoxyribonucleic acideaeexperimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ebvepstein-barr viruselisaenzyme-linked immunosorbent assay foxp3forkhead box p3galtgut-associated lymphoid tissueg-csfgranulocyte colony-stimulating factor gfgerm-freegprsbinding g protein coupled receptor gwasgenome-wide association studieshoma-ir homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistancehpahypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ifninterferonigimmunoglobulinilinterleukinigg2b pe anti-mouse antibodyip-10interferon-gamma-induced protein 10 lpslipopolysaccharidemcp-1 monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 mhcmajor histocompatibility complex mip-1 macrophage inflammatory protein 1 msmultiple sclerosispprobability value psapolysaccharide arosreactive oxygen species rnsreactive nitrogen species scfashort-chain fatty acidslesystemic lupus erythematosus snpsingle-nucleotide polymorphism th1th cellstlrtoll-like receptors tnftumor necrosis factortnfr2 tumor necrosis factor receptor 2 tregregulatory t lymphocytes uvrultraviolet radiation.competing intereststhe authors declare that they have no competing interests.referencest.

butyrate production is associated with increased numbers of treg cells which suggests a potential mechanism through which changes in the intestinal microbiome may lead to predisposition for developing ms. patients with ms treated with glatiramer acetate have less bacteroidaceae faecal- ibacterium ruminococcus lactobacillaceae clostridium and other members of the clostridiales class compared with untreated ms patients.

