though safety appropriately prevails overall further research to go beyond the absence of infectious pathogens is lacking and consider- ations for selection of the ideal donor are still in their infancy.future considerations for fmt donorsthe goal of fmt is the re-population of the gut microbiota because of the known association of the microbiota with health and disease there is heightened interest in the scientific community to explore unanswered questions for optimizing fmt donors.

.current fmt donor considerationsthe current state of fmt donor selection largely focuses on infectious screening and the use of a one-donor-for-one- patient approach.

considering the evolving dia- logue about defining the composition of a healthy gutcurr gastroenterol rep 2017 19 10page 3 of 4 10table 1published randomized controlled trialsyear authors fmtsndonor considerationsstudy armsoutcomesref2012 vrieze aet al.2013 van noode et al.18- autologous- allogenic lean donor infectiousrisk factor screening16- pool of donors screened for infectiousrisk factors every 4 months- fresh samples on day of transplant9 received autologous fmt9 received allogenic lean donor fmt16 received fresh fmt13 received vancomycin alone13 received vancomycin  bowel lavageimprovement in peripheral insulin sensitivity 6 weeks after allogenic fmt p  0.05cdi fmt cure 94cdi vancomycin cure 31cdi vancomycin  lavage cure 23p  0.01 compared to each groupfmtmicrobiota there are features that are known to be associated with gut-related and overall health including increased micro- bial diversity and high concentrations of butyrate-producing bacteria .

curr gastroenterol rep 2017 19 10 doi 10.1007s11894-017-0548-ydonor considerations in fecal microbiota transplantationdanielle barnes1  k. t. park2published online 13 march 2017 springer sciencebusiness media new york outside the usa 2017abstractpurpose of review tremendous acceleration has been made in understanding the gut microbiota in the past decade and with it further understanding of the pathologic role of dysbiosis and the use of fecal microbiota transplantation fmt as therapy.

fmt has been studied in many disease states including the most common indication of clostridium difficile infection cdi though many questions regarding stool donor selection remain.recent findings though traditionally one donor has provid- ed stool for one patient research is underway to explore many donor selection considerations from the use of pooled donor stool to selection of a high diversity donor.

it is well-known that dietary intake shapes the gut microbiota and the potential implications of this on fmt donor selection are being explored.summary though further high-quality research is needed op- timizing the fecal microbiota inoculum holds great promise.keywords fecal microbiota transplant .

fmt donor .

fmt can be ac- complished via a range of introduction methods including in oral pill form  via nasogastric or gastrostomy tube   post-pylorically   colonoscopically  or via enema --though data do not yet support an unequivocally supe- rior method of introduction.

the range of disease states in which fmt has been tested as a therapy is broad as well-- from acute graft-versus-host disease  to ulcerative colitis uc  to the most common indication recurrent cdi       .

a minimally ex- plored frontier of fmt is that of donor considerations fig.

in 2011 little to no data existed to recom- mend an optimal donor aside from having a negative medical history and laboratory testing based on the report of an american gastroenterological association fmt working group .

in 2013 a consortium of gastroenterology and infectious dis- ease organizations proposed a battery of testing and screening for infections which continues to be used to guide the initial work-up of an fmt donor table  .

the clinical stool bank and fmt research platform openbiome   has taken the infection screening a step further by using recurrent infection testing repeat donation by vetted donors and access to ready-to-use transplant mate- rial granted to clinical providers thus circumventing the one- donor-for-one-patient approach and thereby the associated in- surance payer debacles regarding screening of each donor.

concomitantly microbiota solutions are being prepared and validated for commercial use particularly in recurrent cdi as ready-to-use preparations which overcomes the logistical problems of fresh fmt administration .

the use of donor stool has also been explored for the treatment of recurrent cdi with donor fmt in comparison to autologous stool transplant which demonstrated significantly improved resolution compared to autologous transplantation .

