With pathogen- esis QS is used to mount an attack on the host only when the population number is strong enough to overcome host defenses  .In the new study identified three genic components of a QS system within the S. praecaptivus genome a luxI-like synthase homolog ypeI which produces N-3-oxohexanoyl homoserine lactone OHHL and two luxR-like response regulators yenR and ypeR.

toward the mimicry of QS signals or interspecies communication toward QS will be valuable in further understanding this form of chemical communica- tion.

Now through the creative coupling of genetic mutagenesis RNA-seq and behavior and fitness assays using a biologically relevant animal model demonstrate the importance of quorum sensing QS toward fostering the symbiotic domestication process by repressing virulence factors following infection.

The authors propose that the nega- tive regulation of virulence by QS is an important adaptation that has contrib- uted to the widespread success of Sodalis-allied symbionts to develop and sustain insect relations.QS is a form of intercellular chemical signaling involved in the sensing of and response to environmental factors through regulated gene expression and coordinated activity by a bacterial pop- ulation .

The discovery of these genes prompted the authors to hypothesize that YpeI YpeR and YenR regulate QS by S. praecaptivus.

These in vitro studies were then extended to in vivo analysis involving the injection of S. praecaptivus wild-type WT and QS mutant strains into aposymbiotic lacking the highly related Candidatus S. pierantonius str.

These effects were alleviated if DypeI mu- tants were simultaneously injected with the wild-type strain supporting comple- mentation of the mutant's inability to pro- duce OHHLs yet still retain recognition of these QS signals.

Thus the new work  establishes that the expression of virulence genes is likely instrumental for initial infection of the host but is detrimental for mainte- nance of the association in the long term because host fitness is reduced.How do these revelations differ from the QS systems of the insect symbiontsS.

Notably both insect-symbiont ge- nomes contain similar QS or- thologs to S. praecaptivus indicating their presence in a last common ancestor prior to lineage diversification .

The QS genes of both insect symbi- onts are evolving under stabi- lizing selection indicating their functional maintenance.

