thus we stand to gain a better understanding of the resistant gmb and the means for combating destructive pathogens by studying the links between cryptosporidiosis and the structure of the gmb across the course of infection in a variety of host taxa that include primate models.as a consumer of a diverse folivorous diet  thatrequires specialized gastrointestinal morphology the sifaka is a novel primate model in which to probe the links between gmb structure and enteric infection.

thus we infer that there are general biological forces that govern the gmb climax community both in the case of the assembly of the original adult gmb and in the post-disease state 'recovery' gmb.

if however a microbial deficit does not make some individuals more susceptible to infection than others we would expect the gmb of unaffected and pre-infection individuals to be indistinguishable.state 2 infectionduring active infection and diarrheal shedding we expect gmb diversity to decline and the taxa present to shift towards microbes tolerant of oxygen andor those typically associated with dysbiosis .

more rapid transit times associated with a disrupted environment.state 3 recoverywe predict that recovery of the gmb through second- ary colonization will mimic that of initial colonization  microbial diversity should increase across recov- ery and the taxonomic structure of the gmb should return to a stable community similar to that of either pre-infection or unaffected individuals .

specifically alpha diversity decreased and unifrac distance increased during infection suggesting that gmb membership is more depauperate and less tightly regulated than it is in the gmb of healthy sifakas.model 3 individual variation in gut microbiomes during infectionwe used pcoa to compare samples from six infected subjects for which we had significant depth of sam- pling across the duration of infection and recovery .

28 1335165httpsdoi.org10.108016512235.2017.1335165research articledown for the count cryptosporidium infection depletes the gut microbiome in coquerel's sifakaserin a. mckenney lydia k. greene christine m. dreaand anne d. yoderadepartment of biology duke university durham nc usa buniversity program in ecology duke university durham nc usacdepartment of evolutionary anthropology duke university durham nc dduke lemur center durham nc usaarticle historyreceived 20 february 2017accepted 17 may 2017keywordsenteric infection gut microbiota lemur protozoan pathogen strepsirrhine primateintroductionthe gut microbiome gmb is the complex community of bacteria archaea eukaryotes and their respective gen- omes that inhabit animal gastrointestinal tracts.

a healthy or symbiotic gmb aids in digestion  pro- duces critical nutrients  and interacts dynamically with the immune system .

for example compared to conventional controls mice with a normal immune system but low gmb complexity were unable to clear salmonella pathogens from the lumen .

insome cases the gmb recovers from enteric infection to a new stable state .

unfortunately in most studies of the gmb and enteric infection samples are primarily collected after infections occur.

thus examination of the pre-infected gmb is limited although see david et al.

thus we lack specific understanding of what constitutes a sufficiently healthy gmb to confer resistance facilitate clearance and maintain gut homeostasis.cryptosporidium is a particularly problematic gastro- intestinal parasite.

rodents provide a tractable system for testing specific pathogenic mechanisms and interactions with the gmb.

the sifaka gmb is like- wise specialized compared to that of other lemurs sifaka gmbs are enriched for plant-degrading bacteria e.g.

thus in addition to revealing compara- tive insights into primate gastrointestinal disease states an understanding of how the sifaka gmb reacts to cryptosporidium infection can offer insight into preven- tive healthcare measures and treatment options for this endangered primate.

