The average nucleotide identity using the BLAST ANIb value for the closely related strain Pantoea agglomerans MP2 is 98.63 as computed with JSpeciesWS software .The draft genome sequence of Pantoea agglomerans JM1 presented here is a remarkable source of information on genes encoding novel enzymes with industrial potential.

PROKARYOTESDraft Genome Sequence of Pantoea agglomerans JM1 a Strain Isolated from Soil Polluted by Industrial Production of Beta-Lactam Antibiotics That Exhibits Valacyclovir-Like Hydrolase Activityab Martina PlacVkovaab Andrea Palyzovaa Helena Maresovaa Eva Kyslikovaa Pavel KyslikaInstitute of Microbiology Czech Academy of Sciences v.v.i.

Prague Czech Republica Faculty of Science Charles University Prague Prague Czech RepublicbABSTRACT Strain Pantoea agglomerans JM1 was isolated from the soil of a micro- biome that had been exposed to polluting pharmaceuticals.

The genome of the strain was assembled and described and the gene encoding valacyclovir-like hy- drolase was identified.he microorganism Pantoea agglomerans is a Gram-negative motile aerobic enter- obacterium .

Some strains of P. agglomerans are commer- cially available as biocontrol agents that reduce the incidence of basal kernel blight of barley fire blight and other diseases mainly caused by the pathogenic bacteria Pseudomonas siringae pv.

syringae  and Erwinia amylovora   as well as fungalpathogens .The strain Pantoea agglomerans JM1 Czech Collection of Microorganisms CCM 8766 was isolated by extensive screening of microorganisms from a soil sample polluted by a factory producing beta-lactam antibiotics Slovenska L'upcVa.

The genome size of Pantoea agglomerans JM1 was 4794872 bp in 34 scaffolds with an overall GC contentVolume 5 Issue 38 e00921-17 1Zahradnik et al.55.14.

Plasmids pPag1 and pPag3 unlocalized in one scaffold were identified as being closely related to those of Pantoea vagans C9-1  .Multilocus sequence analysis based on atpD glnA gyrB and recA showed a 98 similarity with Pantoea agglomerans C410P1 and confirmed the phylogenetic posi- tion of the species.

Transfer of Enterobacter agglomerans Beijerinck 1888 Ewing and Fife 1972 to Pantoea gen. nov. as Pantoea agglornerans comb.

Rice endophyte Pantoea agglomerans YS19 promotes host plant growth and affects allocations of host pho- tosynthates.

