The heated springs and hydrothermal features of Yellowstone National Park are ideal locations to find thesepotentially unclassified cellulolytic thermophiles.Five individual water samples were removed from Whiterock Springs a hydrother- mal feature along Solfatara Creek Trail Yellowstone National Park WY USA and vacuum-filtrated through 0.22-um filters.

This paper reports the draft genome sequence of Ba- cillus licheniformis strain YNP1-TSU isolated from hydrothermal-vegetative micro- biomes inside Yellowstone National Park.

The draft genome was assembled into 66 contigs with a total genome size of 4280972 bp N50 253807 and a GC content of 45.9.

The version de- scribed in this paper is the first version MIGE01000000.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe thank the Yellowstone National Park System for access to sensitive hydrothermal areas under permit number YELL-2015-SCI-6074.

Also a special thanks to Stacey Gunther and Sarah Haas for their help in permit-coordination and field-sampling guidance at Yellowstone National Park.

PROKARYOTESDraft Genome Sequence of Bacillus licheniformis Strain YNP1-TSU Isolated from Whiterock Springs in Yellowstone National ParkJoshua A. O'Haira Hui Lia Santosh Thapaa Matthew B. Scholzb Suping Zhoua Department of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences Tennessee State University Nashville Tennessee USAa Vanderbilt Technologies for Advanced Genetics VANTAGE Vanderbilt University Medical Center Nashville Tennessee USAbABSTRACT Novel cellulolytic microorganisms can potentially influence second- generation biofuel production.

The Vanderbilt VANTAGE Core provided tech- nical assistance for this work.

A special thanks to Olivia Koues for her assistance at VANTAGE and Sarabjit Bhatti for assisting with the lab analysis at Tennessee State University.Any opinions findings and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not reflect the views of the U.S. Department of Agriculture or the National Park Service.REFERENCESU.S.

The assembled sequence contigs predicted 4230 coding genes 66 tRNAs and 10 rRNAs through automated annotation.s greenhouse gas GHG emissions and global average temperatures rise research for alternative renewable energy has been actively increasing.

The bacterial strain reported here tested positive for extracellular endoglucanase activity on 10 carboxymethyl cellulose plates under the Congo red assay .

