the inter- action between treatments berry status x variety was also signifi- cant anova f124  97.4 p  0.001 in that both pinot noir and cabernet sauvignon developed a significant increase in the number of bacterial cfu when incised while no significant differences were found in schiava between incised and sound grape berries .as expected the volatile acidity value was significantly higher in the incised treatments than in the sound berries 3.55 gliter vs1.03 gliter t  14 p  0.040. volatile acidity was also signifi- cantly higher in the treatments infested with d. suzukii compared to those where flies were excluded 3.61 gliter vs 0.36 gliter t  21 p  0.014 .in more detail when contact between d. suzukii and grape ber- ries was absent the acetic acid level remained negligible in sound berries 0.15 0.18 0.22 gliter in pinot noir schiava and cabernet sauvignon respectively and it increased above the legal limits of dry wine in europe  only in pinot noir when the berries were incised.

inoculation of incised berries treatments c and e did not significantly increase the effect of the contaminants.the results concerning lactic acid bacteria were similar an increase in bacterial load was found on the tested sound berries 1.6 x 102 and2.8 x 102 cfug in treatments b and c respectively when the source of contamination included incised berries compared to the control but still far below the lactic acid bacterial load found on incised ber- ries 2.0 x 106 and 2.6 x 106g respectively in treatments 'd' and 'e'.on the contrary when saccharomyces and non-saccharomyces yeast contamination was considered we did not find any significant increase on tested sound berries compared to the control while sig- nificantly higher loads of yeast were detected on tested incised ber- ries .ability of d. suzukii to vector sour rot bacteria to fully intact sound berries by ovipositionthe ripeness of the grapes used in the bioassays was assessed by measuring the penetration force of fruits originating from the study vineyard blocks.

therewere differences in oviposition levels between cultivars anova f154  58.9 p  0.001. the interaction between treatments berry status x variety was also significant anova f124  19.5p  0.001 the number of eggsberry was significantly higher in bothpinot noir and cabernet sauvignon when berries were incised while no significant differences were found in schiava between incised and sound grape berries .when berries were analyzed for quantification of microbial con- tamination acetic acid bacteria were not detected in the treatments where flies were not released in neither sound nor incised berries data not shown.

all berries of each cluster were checked under a dissecting microscope and divided into three classes berries without any eggs sound berries with one or more eggs and berries with developing larvae.

larva-infested grape berries in 9.5 of samples developed higher volatile acidity after 14 d. sound grape berries were less susceptible to the development of microbiota associated with sour rot and spoilage.

different letters indicate significant differences among treatments after two-way anova followed by tukey's hsd post hoc test p  0.05. pinot noir grape berries were harvested on 17 october 3 wk after commercial ripening in 2014 schiava and cabernet sauvignon grape berries were harvested at their respective commercial ripening dates on 25 september and 9 october 2015.fig.

the intro- duction of d. suzukii causes a significant alteration of grape berries making them unsuitable for the production of wine.in order to investigate the association of d. suzukii with grape sour rot disease in the vineyard we studied the oviposition behavior of the fly in relation to the physical and chemical changes occurring during grape berry ripening.

moreover to stimulate microorganism development in treatments 'c' and 'e' incised berries placed in sector 'b' were also inoculated with g. oxy- dans atcc 621 and a. aceti nrrl b-999 by dipping the incised berries in a suspension of peptone water containing bacteria of 107 cfuml at a ratio of 11. treatment 'a' having sterilized sound berries on both sides of the cage was considered as the control.

in fact despite the observation that eggs were not laid in the grape berries in our first laboratory bio- assay spoilage bacteria contamination of the tested sound berries nonetheless occurred.

laboratory studies andfield observations on grape susceptibility to d. suzukii oviposition report that very few eggs are laid on intact grape berries compared to small fruits and cherries  .

suzukii could promote grape sour rot in fully intact healthy and ripe grape berries of cvs.

sector 'a' contained either sound 'a' 'b' 'c' or incised 'd' 'e' sterile berries n  10 whose microbial load was quantified to verify whether d. suzukii was vectoring microorganisms developed on berries placed in sector 'b' which acted as a source of contamination.

all berries of each cluster were checked under the dissecting microscope and categorized in berries with g and without g- eggs.

significantly  higher levels of acetic acid bac- teria 3 log units were detected on sound berries when contamin- ation was introduced into the cage by incised berries 6.0 x 103 and6.8 x 103 cfug in treatments b and c respectively.

however only the availability of fermentable substrates typical of damaged berries stimulated proliferation of acetic acid bacteria due to two different phenomena the direct utilization of sugars espe- cially by the bacteria belonging to the genus gluconobacter and the oxidation of ethanol previously produced by the fermentation of yeast on account of acetobacter bacteria   .even though on sound berries the legal limit of 1 gliter wasreached only in 2014 on pinot noir the increase in acetic acid content was consistent across the three cultivars when exposed to d. suzukii oviposition.

