strik- ingly the larvae once- or thrice-inoculated with dead lpwjl cells did not grow more than gf siblings a. we detected an increase in larval growth when gf larvae were repeatedly inocu- lated with 1003 dead lpwjl cells yet the larvae once inoculated with the same amount of viable lpwjl cells still grew longer b. these results clearly demonstrate that unless in massive excess dead lpwjl cells fail to promote larval growth to the extent of live bacteria.in parallel we tested the growth performance of the acid-less larvae in which midgut inactivation of lpwjl cells is greatly impaired h. in these animals lpwjl-mediated growth promotion is still strongly detected c. therefore lpwjl inactivation in the midgut is not required for lpwjl-mediated growth promotion and even though constituents of dead bacte- ria may serve as a limited trophic source it is not sufficient toexplain the maximum growth benefit that live lpwjl provides to its animal partner in a low nutritional condition.

in the absence of larvae we observed that lpwjl titers maintain at a plateau at around 108 cfusml of fly food until d2 post-inocula- tion and markedly decrease by about 1-2 logs in the following days a. in contrast when larvae are present lpwjl titers maintain the same plateau over the 12 days a. these observations establish that drosophila and lpwjl engage in a reciprocal long-term beneficial association whereby larvae presence sustains higher titers of lpwjl in the niche despite death of many bacteria cells during the intestinal transit.presence of drosophila larvae spares essential nutrients and modifies the diet ensuring l. plantarum maintenance in the nichesince lpwjl maintenance in the diet benefits from the presence of larvae we reasoned that bacterial metabolism might be altered during symbiosis.

these bacteria could then be re-ingested by larvae.since the midgut acidic region acts as a biological barrier shaping lpwjl accumulation and distribution in the midgut h we wondered if the acidic region eliminates some of the lpwjl cells when they transit through the gut thus explain- ing the drop in the bacterial load in the niche upon larvae transfer onto axenic food a. to address this question we sur- face-sterilized and transferred larvae lacking the acidic region acid-less larvae mexlab-ir associated with lpwjl onto new axenic food and monitored the bacterial load of the entire niche d the transferred larvae e or the food matrix f 4 and 24 hr post larvae transfer.

in contrast to the control larvae lpwjl load remained constant in the niche colonized by larvae with acid-less guts d. in addition the decrease in lpwjl loads in acid-less larvae is delayed compared with mex controls at 4 hr post-transfer e. one explanation could be that acid-less larvae need more time to purge the initially higher bacterial burden held in their guts h. however mex and acid-less larvae do not show a rebound in gut bacterial load 24 hr after transfer as observed with yw larvae b. thus besides the function of copper cells we cannot rule out the implication of physiological features that could vary between genotypes such as ingestion and defe- cation rates in modulating the evolution of gut bacterial load af- ter transfer on a fresh axenic substrate.

this depletion is accompanied by signatures of intense glycolytic activity homolactic fermentation increased glucose-6-phos- phate lactate and nad d and catabolism of eaas increased 2-hydroxy-3-methylvalerate a-hydroxyisovalerate and 34-hydroxyphenyl lactate e. to see if macronu- trient depletion directly impacts the maintenance of lpwjl cells we inoculated lpwjl cells onto axenic diets incubated them for 7 days heat killed them re-inoculated the modified spent diet with fresh lpwjl cells and followed the lpwjl titers over time f and 6g.

thus most bacteria are killed when they transit through the acidic region of the gut.collectively our results demonstrate that drosophila and lpwjl maintain a stable symbiosis through a reiterated cycle ingestion of lpwjl cells by larvae which transit with food through the midgut while a major portion of the bacteria are killed in the acidic region the surviving lpwjl cells are excreted by larvae and can repopulate the food matrix before being re-ingested.figure 2. l. plantarum transits in the endoperitrophic space with the food bolusevolution of the larval bacterial load after repeated transfers on axenic food.

this demonstrates that the higher number of bacterial cells found alive on the food matrix 4 hr post-transfer of monoassociated acid-less larvae is directly responsible for the higher titer observed at 24 hr post-transfer f. these re- sults indicate that removing the acidic region in the host's midgut preserves more live lpwjl cells during gut transit and as a consequence the excretion of lpwjl cells onto the food matrix is increased and substrate colonization is accelerated.to refine our analysis we usedlivedead bacteria stains to probe bacterial survival throughout the intestine.

finally we did not detect differences in bacterial proliferation rates in the niche in a 20 hr period when larvae of the different genotypes with or without copper cells were present and when the initial bacterial inoc- ulum was kept identical among conditions g. there- fore the initial bacterial inoculum or the quantity of bacteria defecated alive by larvae on a fresh susbtrate is the main param- eter dictating the evolution of the bacterial population in the niche in a 20 hr period.

lpwjl is mostly found in the gut a and its load increases steadily as the larvae grow b. to analyze in detail lpwjl localization in the larval gut we quantified lpwjl's loads in different regions of the intestine figure s1.

to confirm this we analyzed the anterior region of lpwjl mono-asso- ciated midguts by transmission electron microscopy and detected lpwjl cells exclusively in the endoperitrophic space of the luminal compartment d indicating that lpwjl cells remain associated with the alimentary bolus in the intestinal lumen.stable drosophilal.

note that while bacteria are dead in the posterior part of the gut of control animals they are not completely lysed they are efficiently stained by the dye and their coarse morphology is not altered.asterisks illustrate statistical significance between conditions 0.001  p  0.01 p  0.05 ns not significant p  0.1. the p value is indicated when approaching statistical significance 0.05  p  0.1.b6543larvallength2measure10d6543210f6543210lpwjl-mediated larval growth promotion while removal on d5 resulted in a partial if any alteration of lpwjl-mediated larval growth promotion d. moreover varying the duration of lpwjl association to gf animals yielded consistent result the earlier the inoculation the more visible the lpwjl-mediated enhanced growth phenotype f. taken together our re- sults demonstrate that to express its full benefit toward juvenile growth lpwjl has to be alive and constantly provided to its partner.drosophila larvae sustain l. plantarum long-term maintenance in their shared nichethe benefit of lpwjl to drosophila growth performance upon chronic undernutrition is well established  .

moreover incubation with both lpwjl and larvae a condition that spares simple sugars and eaas j and 6k followed by removal of larvae and heat inactivation of lpwjl f delivered a suitable substrate for the mainte- nance of fresh lpwjl upon re-inoculation g black versus red.

plantarum symbiosis by constant ingestion andor re-ingestiondespite the transient nature of the association between drosophila and lpwjl we observed that the internal bacterial loads of mono-associated larvae constantly increased during development b therefore lpwjl cells must be contin- uously re-associated with larvae probably by constant inges- tion of contaminated food.

consistent with the data presented in a we also observed an initial sharp decrease in lpwjl loads in individ- ual larvae 4 hr post-transfer b. importantly bacteria could be recovered in the previously axenic food matrix at the same time point showing that larvae release live lpwjl onto the food c. interestingly an increase in the bacterial load in the food and in the larvae was readily detectable in thenext 20 hr b and 3c.

we first observed a significant decrease of the bacterial number in the entire niche 4 hr post-transfer when 90 of lpwjl cells present at 0 hr were eliminated a. however the niche load rebounded dramatically within the next 20 hr and reached a number beyond the initial bacterial burden carried by the larvae.

