Such situations may compromise the ADME enzymes and inflammation has been shown both in vivo and in vitro to regulate the CYP isoforms which carry out Phase I metabolism Phase II metabolism may also be affected the sulfation path- way is known to be reduced in inflammation probably by the release of cytokines whilst in vitro studies suggest that forma- tion of glucuronide and glutathione metabolites may be reduced Frailty is associated with higher inflammatory markers and lower esterase activity so these findings may be a partial expla- nation of the increased rate of ADRs in elderly patients.Circadian rhythmsCircadian regulation is mediated through the suprachiasmatic nucleus SCN which acts as the master controller combining envi- ronmental cues from light and food intake to entrain internal clocks Drug absorption is known to have a circadian variation lipophilic drugs are absorbed faster when taken in the morning although there is no circadian variation in absorption of water- soluble compounds.

It should be appreciated that although there may be general trends many fac- tors both genetic and environmental will influence a particular individual's situation and that knowledge of a subject's chronolog- ical age may not be a true indicator of their functional biological age.

During development demethylation occurs with a consequent increase in activity and once adult levels are attained there appears to be no significant variation in CYP3A4 expression Nevertheless it may be appreciated that subse- quent methylation in the elderly like the foetal situation could be a mechanism to reduce activity.It has been appreciated for some time that elderly individuals have a reduced enzyme induction capability and are less able to tolerate overdoses This may reflect increased epigenetic gene silencing with age since DNA methylation was shown to inhibit sub- sequent attempts at dioxin-mediated induction of the CYP1B1 gene activity.

There is no clear evidence that drug metabolism itself 'the biologically-assisted chemical alteration of the administered parent molecule' is less efficient in healthy old age than at younger ages whereas a decreased capacity may be associated with ill-health and frailty.

It appears that the majority of deleterious clinical outcomes related to drug therapy in an elderly usually ill or frail population may be ascribed to various anatomical and physiological age-related changes.

These may affect both phar- macodynamics and pharmacokinetics but not necessarily drug metabolism.

Information gleaned from animal studies undertaken mainly in rodents does not seem to be of relevance to humans and studies in healthy aged human populations may not highlight possible problems.

However certain circumstances may influence metabolic competence and phenotyping rather than genotyping is of more value in identi- fying those susceptible to adverse drug reactions.

This short review discusses the potential contributions of four factors inflammation circadian rhythm gut microbes epigenetic aspects which may lead to alterations in drug metabolism with increasing age.c 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.Contents Corresponding author.E-mail address R.H. Waring.1 All authors contributed equally to this work.

0378-5122c 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.IntroductionMany interacting factors influence the journey of a drug through the human body and age-related changes may lead to differ- ences in an older subject's ability to process and respond to drugs when compared to a younger cohort.

