a widely used murine model of chronic alcohol abuse is chronic intermittent ethanol etoh cie exposure because it resembles the prolonged repeated patterns of alcohol abuse seen in humans prior studies using the cie model have reported changes in a range of neu- ral indices and behavioural phenotypes including increased etoh self-administration the cie model could be advantageous for studying potential changes in the gut microbiome resulting from chronic etoh expo- sure as compared to other methods such as etoh drinking becausethere is less potential for confounding effects of caloric intake 2 administration dose is consistent among subjects and 3 vapour administration circumvents the physiological effects of etoh in the gastrointestinal tract such as altered nutrient absorption.

behavioural brain research 323 2017 172-176short communicationdrunk bugs chronic vapour alcohol exposure induces marked changes in the gut microbiome in miceveronica l. petersonnicholas j. juryraul cabrera-rubiolorraine a. draper fiona crispiepaul d. cottertimothy g. dinanandrew holmesjohn f. cryana apc microbiome institute university college cork cork irelandb laboratory of behavioral and genomic neuroscience national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism national institutes of health bethesda md usac teagasc food research centre moorepark fermoy cork irelandd department of anatomy and neuroscience university college cork cork irelande department of psychiatry and neurobehavioural science university college cork cork irelandh i g h l i g h t smice chronically exposed to ethanol vapours exhibited marked changes in microbiota.ethanol exposure significantly increases in genus alistipes.ethanol exposure reduces many bacterial taxa most significantly clostridium.chronic ethanol exposure caused reductions in bacteria alpha diversity.bacterial changes found align with previous findings associated to inflammation.a r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c tarticle historyreceived 3 november 2016received in revised form 18 january 2017 accepted 30 january 2017available online 1 february 2017keywords chronic alcohol microbiome vapour ethanolmicrobiota-gut-brain axisthe gut microbiota includes a community of bacteria that play an integral part in host health and bio- logical processes.

however our current study found reductions in clostridium cluster iv also seen in this aformentioned study the genus clostridium cluster iv is populated by bac- terial species believed to confer an anti-inflammatory effect and therefore beneficial to the host faecalibacterium prausnitzii and clostridium leptum are among these beneficial species within this genus and are reduced in studies of alcohol consumption and hep- atitis there is limited information about the functions of genra propionibacterium and clostridium xivb within the gut microbiome though they are known to include species that produce short-chain fatty acids which are implicated in behavior and cogni- tion similar reductions in dorea and coprococcus which have previosly been observed in chronic social stress and correlated to increases in pro-inflammatory cytokines il-6 and mcp-1 future studies are needed to examine the relative importance of these alterations to the pathophysiology in disease states.despite its advantage of mimicking the most common route of alcohol administration in humans oral etoh self-administration in rodents has several limitations including 1 dosage vari- ability between test subjects 2 inconsistent and unreliable self-administration in animals 3 difficulty in achieving and main- taining a desired bec and 4 experimental confounds such as caloric intake while vapour exposure is not a common form of achieving intoxication in humans this method is valuable in differentiating the underlying mechanisms involved in micro- bial changes caused by gastrointestinal etoh exposure and other changes acting through the brain-gut-microbiota axis.

a previously described vapour inhalation procedure was employed prior to being placed in the vapour chambers test subjects received ip injections of1.5 gkg of 20 etoh vv with 71.6 mgkg of an alcohol dehydro- genase adh inhibitor pyrazole sigma st. louis mo usa in a combined volume of 10 mlkg body weight to initiate intoxica- tion and stabilize blood etoh concentrations becs.

indeed preclinical studies have associated commensal bacteria to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal hpa signalling neurodevel- opment processes such as myelination in addition to variousbehavioural phenotypes currently however there remains only a limited set of studies focusing on microbiota change in sub- stance abuse including alcohol use disorder to date no studies have investigated the impact of vapour alcohol adminis- tration on the gut microbiome.chronic alcohol abuse can cause damage to health including nutrient depletion cognitive deficits and alcoholic liver disease.

the protocol for con- trol group was similar to the cie. the control group received a68.1 mg kg ip injection of pyrazole and was exposed to air at a rate of 10 lmin in plexiglas vapour chambers directly adjacent to the etoh vapour chambers.

animal models of alcohol abuse have proven valuable for eluci- dating the biological processes involved in addiction fetal alcohol syndrome and alcohol-related diseases.

to date no studies have investigated the impact of vapour alcohol administration on the gut microbiome.

for these reasons the current study employed the cie method in order to investigate the consequences of chronic vapour etoh on gut micro- biome.adult male c57bl6j mice were obtained from the jackson lab-oratory bar harbor me usa at 7 weeks of age.

furthermore the robust effects of etoh vapour suggest that other substances of abuse administered outside of the gas- trointestinal system may potentially alter gut microbiota.conflicts of interestthe authors have no potential conflicts of interest to report.acknolwedgementsresearch supported by the apc microbiome institute and sci- ence foundation ireland sfi grant no.

currently however there remains only a limited set of studies focusing on microbiota change in substance abuse including alcohol use disorder.

animal models of alcohol abuse have proven valuable for elucidating the biological processes involved in addiction and alcohol-related diseases.

corresponding author at laboratory of behavioral and genomic neurosciencenational institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism 5625 fishers lane room 2n09 rockville md 20852-9411 usa.e-mail addresses a. holmes j.f.

becs were measured in sentinels using the analox am1 alcohol analyzer analox instruments usa lunenburg ma usa and achieved becs of 175 25 mgdl.

these data add to a growing literature showing how changes in the microbiome can occur inde- pendent of direct administration of a substance into the gut they also extend the findings of a previous report showing reduc- tions in alpha diversity following chronic alcohol feeding taken together with the current findings these results demonstrate alter-fig.

