In the current p values upper right and F values lower left generated from one-way PERMANOVA of Bray-Curtis similarity indices between microbial DNA detected in bronchoalveolar lavage samples BALF oropharyngeal swabs OP rectal swabs Feces and blood collected at day 0 D0 week 2 W2 or week 10 W10 from healthy adult cats n  6.doi10.1371journal.pone.0173818.t002study the gastrointestinal tract upper airways OP and lower airways BALF each have unique microbial communities while microbial OTUs detected in blood samples overlappedVenn diagram showing the distribution of operational taxonomic units OTUs detected in at least one bronchoalveolar lavage BALF oropharyngeal swab OP or fecal swab of healthy cats n  6 at one of three time points.

Using 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing of DNA extracted from rectal and oropharyngeal OP swabs bronchoalveolar lavage fluid BALF and blood our objective was to characterize the fecal OP blood and lower airway microbiota over time in healthy cats.

coverage varied by site with fecal followed by OP samples yielding the highest number of sequences per sample mean - SEM of 65653 - 6145 and 20633 - 4360Mean - standard error of the mean SEM coverage number of sequences per sample detected in DNA extracted from bronchoalveolar lavage BALF oropharyngeal swabs OP fecal swabs and blood samples collected from 6 healthy young cats.

The phylum Bacteroidetes was detected at greater relative abundance in feces OP swabs andRelative abundance of all taxa detected in fecal oropharyngeal swab OP bronchoalveolar lavage fluid BAL and blood collected at day 0 week 2 and week 10 annotated to the taxonomic level of phylum.doi10.1371journal.pone.0173818.g003Relative abundance of all taxa detected in fecal oropharyngeal swab OP bronchoalveolar lavage fluid BALF and blood collected at day 0 week 2 and week 10 annotated to the taxonomic level of family.

In contrast in BALF there was a sig- nificant decrease in richness from week 2 to week 10 41 and 27 respectively p  0.043.Proteobacteria dominates healthy feline airwaysA distinct difference between microbial populations from the fecal and airway samples was detected at the taxonomic level of phylum .

To date studies documenting the presence of and characterizing the healthy airway microbiota have not been published in cats.The primary aim of this study was to document the presence of and characterize the respi- ratory microbiota in healthy cats.

When samples from all sites were included in the analysis principal component 1 PC1 accounting for 33.51 of the variation among the samples showed complete separation of the fecal and OP microbial populations from BALF and blood .

As anticipated BALF and blood had significantly lower coverage 1489 - 430 and 269 - 18 respectively compared to rectal and OP swabs .For all samples even those with lower biomass and DNA yield below the limit of detection consistent and interpretable data were obtained.The richness of rectal and OP swabs was higher than that of BALF and blood the mean number of operational taxonomic units OTUs groups of sequences sharing a minimum of 97 nucleotide identity was 88 93 36 and 15 respectively .

While there was some degree of regional continuity with roughly 92 of OTUs in the BALF being present in the OP samples  bacterial communities as assessed by diversity indices suggested BALF and OP popula- tions were completely separated and thus distinct.

RESEARCH ARTICLEDynamic changes of the respiratory microbiota and its relationship to fecal and blood microbiota in healthy young catsAida I. Viento's-Plotts123 Aaron C. Ericsson145 Hansjorg Rindt13 MeganE.

