the reliability of transmission brought about by social contact potentially allows for stable long-term microbial assemblages to establish and for host-adapted symbiont lineages to arise 4-10. nonetheless how gut microbiomes evolve-- through changes in community composition diversity and functional capabilities--is not well understood and the forces guiding these evo- lutionary trajectories remain unclear.the eusocial western honey bee apis mellifera harbors a distinc- tive gut microbiota composed of 10 bacterial phylotypes that are transmitted through contact between nestmates 11-13. these bacteria are extremely specialized usually found in bee guts or the hive environ- ment but not elsewhere 14 15. however a. mellifera is but one of more than 775 species of social corbiculate bees--a clade dating to about 80 million years and containing other ecologically important pollinators such as the eastern honey bee apis cerana bumble bees tribe bombini all in genus bombus and stingless bees tribe meli- ponini 16. previous studies found that diverse bumble bee species harbor gut associates related to those of a. mellifera 14 17-21 sug- gesting that an evolutionarily ancient microbiota is conserved among the eusocial corbiculates.here we compare the gut microbiomes of honey bees tribe apini all in genus apis bumble bees and stingless bees--the three majorgroups of eusocial corbiculates--using samples collected from multiple locations on four continents fig.

because these data sources are not directly comparable phylogenetic distances were omitted from these analyses.microbiome dissimilarity and host relatednessthe impact of host phylogeny on microbial community dissimilarity was investigated using a mantel test of correlation between matrices of pairwise sorensen-dice dissimilarities and host divergences in the vegan package in r v.3.2.2 with 104 permutations 99. because phy- logenetic distances or divergence times were not available for our sampled bee species a nodal distance approach based on the work of webb 108 was used whereby the number of nodes separating bee spe- cies on our tree fig.

this was true even in a. cerana from cairns australia a highly inbred population founded by a single colony 34. there was also no clustering discernible along intraspecies morphoclusters which potentially represent different host genetic backgrounds for examplecerana in cairns versus that in seoul 44. hence the entire diversityof a host-specific phylotype might be largely represented within a single bee colony regardless of geography at least for a. mellifera and a. cerana.despite the high degree of observed host specificity the phyloge- netic association between firm-5 and host bees is not perfectly congruent fig.

e v o l utionary biology2017 c the authorssome rights reserveddynamic microbiome evolution in social beeswaldan k. kwong12 luis a. medina2 hauke koch2 kong-wah sing3 eunice jia yu soh4 john s. ascher4 rodolfo jaffe56 nancy a. moran2the highly social eusocial corbiculate bees comprising the honey bees bumble bees and stingless bees are ubiq- uitous insect pollinators that fulfill critical roles in ecosystem services and human agriculture.

firm-5 strains also resolve into clusters that reflect higher host-level taxo- nomies for example strains from bumble bees honey bees and the old world and new world stingless bees group separately albeit with lower support at deeper nodes.in a. mellifera and a. cerana cloned firm-5 sequences from a single sample fall across a range of phylogenetic positions indicating cohabitation of multiple firm-5 strains within individual bees fig.

gut volume has been considered 79 as has body weight as in a previous study that found no relation between microbiota diversity and weight of host individ- uals within a single bumble bee species 80. here we compare across corbiculate bee species and find a weak correlation with micro- biota diversity by using absolute community size or bee size as proxies for habitat size fig.

biogeographical data are from previous studies 34 60 120 121.sister to the corbiculates and the miner bee anthophora abrupta and were also not found in other noncorbiculate bees and wasps 14.gut communities differ among host species although low diversity and the presence of recurring phylotypes appear to be common characteristics uniting corbiculate gut communities the microbiome of each host species remains distinctive when compared against that of other species.

we examined total community size absolute bac- terial abundance as a function of host size length of average worker bee and uncover a positive log-linear relationship in the corbiculates whereby larger bees host more bacteria fig.

our results show that as with humans and several other social animals the eusocial corbiculate bees have highly characteristic gut communities whose origins and mainte- nance may be facilitated by their social nature.resultswe examined the gut microbiota of 472 individual adult bees repre- senting 25 species of corbiculates and two outgroup bee species data file s1.

unlike honey bees and stingless bees which grow by colony fission 46 47 bumble bee colonies are founded by single queens 48 imposing potential bottlenecks on microbiota diversity.

some phylotypes appear lineage- specific bartonella apis 23 and frischella 24 inhoney bees bombiscardovia 25 and schmidhempelia 26 in bumble bees and an acetobacter-like otu in the stingless bees.

linear models testing of the effects of bee body size gut community size 16s copies host phylogenetic affiliation tribe and bee colony size on microbiome diversity.table s1.

k. kwong p. engel h. koch n. a. moran genomics and host specialization of honey bee and bumble bee gut symbionts.

s11 and s12 for additional plots.recovered from african stingless bees 18 suggesting that this un- characterized bacterium is affiliated with a breadth of stingless bee di- versity but has been lost in some host lineages.when explaining microbiota composition in extant corbiculate species a variety of potential mechanisms should be considered.

how this host specificity is main- tained is unclear but we are able to test hypotheses such as host in- compatibility and interbacterial competition using in vivo microbiota transplant experiments.there are large-scale patterns in bee gut community diversity.

