we cannot judge long term effects of antibiotics on urinary microbiota 47. lastly all the t2dm participants were treated with metformin so we were unable to compare the effects of insulin and metformin treatment on the urinary microbiota since the intestinal microbiota is affected by metformin 48. a useful future study would involve exploring the urinary microbiota of participants taking these two medications.conclusionswe demonstrated that microbiota dysbiosis may be associated with t2dm.

research paper immunologydysbiosis of urinary microbiota is positively correlated with type 2 diabetes mellitusfengping liu14 zongxin ling23 yonghong xiao23 longxian lv23 qing yang3 baohong wang23 haifeng lu23 li zheng1 ping jiang1 wei wang1 and lanjuan li23department of urology the first affiliated hospital school of medicine zhejiang university hangzhou zhejiang chinastate key laboratory for diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases the first affiliated hospital school of medicine zhejiang university chinacollaborative innovation center for diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases the first affiliated hospital school of medicine zhejiang university chinayancheng medical college yancheng jiangsu china these authors have contributed equally to this work these authors also have contributed equally to this work correspondence to wei wang email correspondence to lanjuan li email keywords akkermansia muciniphila escherichia coli lactobacillus type 2 diabetes mellitus urinary microbiota immunology and microbiology section immune response immunityreceived november 02 2016accepted december 13 2016published december 19 2016abstracttype 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm may be associated with altered urinary microbiota in female patients.

we investigated alterations of urinary microbiota in chinese female t2dm patients and explored the associations between urinary microbiota and a patient's fasting blood glucose fbg urine glucose uglu age menstrual status and body mass index bmi.

suc limitations include 90 of bacteria cannot be cultured via standard culture media 7 suc technique favors fast-growing bacteria but cannot consider the fastidious pathogens 8 and suc techniques are unable to detect the presence of bacteria embedded within biofilms 9. fastidious pathogens may not lead to a uti diagnosis because they are below the 105 cfuml threshold but can still cause urinary disorders 4.recent 16s rrna sequencing results indicate that the urinary tract possesses bacteria regardless of a patient's present urinary tract symptoms 10-23. the main bacteria of females with asymptomatic bacteriuria are lactobacillus 11 12 18 22 gardnerella 1113 18 and prevotella 11 12. increased diversity of urinary microbiota in females undergoing stress urinary incontinence surgery was correlated with patients' hormonal status and body mass index bmi 22. urinary microbiota in women with urgency urinary incontinence uui was affected by uui episodes treatment response and risk of post-treatment uti 20. because microorganisms are present in healthy urinary systems administering antibiotics to treat a uti may be inappropriate.

antibiotics may kill the beneficial microbiota in the bladder promote harmful bacteria to multiply and result in dysbiosis.with the occurrence of t2dm the function of the urinary system can be impaired as indicated by the urine composition showing bladder dysfunction increased uglu and renal urine net acid excretion 24-26. we studied whether the difference in urinary microbiota between healthy controls hcs and t2dm patients can be detected and if these differences are influenced by patients' conditions such as fasting blood glucose fbg uglu bmi etc.resultscohort descriptionthe women in both cohorts were similar in age marital status menstrual status bmi co-occurrence of coronary heart disease and hypertension water intake and asymptomatic bacteriuria p  0.05. t2dm cohort had higher fbg uglu higher occurrence of hyperlipidemia and more utis in the last year p  0.05 table 1.sequencing datafrom 140 samples a total of 8602818 high quality reads were produced with a median read length of 441bp range from 423 to 491. those reads accounted for 78.91 of the valid reads 11181603 total sequences with an average of 61448 reads range from 13419 to308123 per barcoded sample for downstream analysis.

detailed microbiota analysis of well-characterized t2dm patients and healthy controls indicate that chinese t2dm female patients exhibit dysbiosis of urinary microbiota.introductiontype 2 diabetes mellitus t2dm accounts for 90 of diabetes 1. t2dm is not due to insufficient use of insulin but due to insufficient insulin secretion and insufficient insulin action.

the total number of unique sequences from the two cohorts was 2501986 and represented all phylotypes.good's coverage indicated sufficient depth for the investigation of t2dm-associated urinary microbiota figure 1a.

both shannon and simpson indices illustrated the urinary microbiota diversity was lower in t2dm patients than in hcs table 2 and table s1 figure 1b and 1c.

interestingly when correlation analyses between microbiota diversity and richness indices and participants' age were conducted no significant correlations were found table s2.

the heatmap showed that the two cohorts were partially clustered figure s1.associations of urinary microbiota and t2dmat the phylum level the predominant sequences in the hcs were from proteobacteria 58.01 firmicutes 22.41 bacteroidetes 9.33 actinobacteria 4.76 and acidobacteria 1.31. the abundant sequences for the t2dm group belonged to proteobacteria 51.63 firmicutes 24.31 bacterioidetes 13.07 actinobacteria 7.49 and thermi 0.80. when the relative abundance of bacterial phylum was compared chloroflexi nitrospirae and gemmatimonadetes were more abundant in the hcs than those from the t2dm cohort data not shown.at the genus level hcs were mainly assigned to prevotella 12.67 blautia 7.24 and klebsiella 7.07. the most abundant genus was also prevotella 18.76 in t2dm patients followed by lactobacillus 12.15 and shuttleworthia 6.42. genera with different relative abundances between the two cohorts are listed in figure 2 and their proportions are listed in table s3 p  0.05. the relative abundance of gardnerella was only 0.0018 and 0.0017 in the hcs and t2dm patients respectively.

independent t-test was used with continuous variables.d variables used for individual matching.e pos indicates positive.f utis indicates episodes of uti in the last year.g the amount of water intake included drinking water intake and dietary fluid intake which was examined by the chinesefood frequency questionnaire.t2dm associated biomarkersto identify the specific bacteria taxa associated with t2dm the urinary microbiota in the two cohorts were compared using lefse.

a cladogram representative of the structure of the urinary microbiota and their predominant bacteria is shown in figure 3a and 3b the greatest differences in taxa between two cohorts are displayed.

actinobacteria flavobacteriales and flavobacteria could be used as potential distinguishing biomarkers.urinary microbiota affected by participants' conditionsthe relative abundance of actinobacteria and lactobacillus increased with fbg and uglu in the t2dm cohort figure s3a s3b s4a s4b.

the healthyfigure 1 structural comparison of urinary microbiota between two cohorts.

d. venn diagram demonstrating overlap of otus in the urinary microbiota between the two cohorts.

