p  0.01.were reduced 3.1 - 1.0 vs. 7.5 - 1.4 p  0.021 2.2 - 0.6 vs. 6.2 - 1.3 p  0.013 and- 0.3 vs. 2.3 - 0.6 p  0.035 respectively while the genus lactobacillus and l. salivar- ius were enriched 21.4 - 5.1 vs. 2.0 - 1.1 p  0.004 and 14.0 - 4.7 vs. 0.4 - 0.4p  0.018 respectively in fecal samples from older hf patients compared to younger patients .discussionthis study provides the first evidence to our knowledge that patients with hf harbor altered gut microbiota pointing to the potential clinical significance of gut microbiota in the patho- physiology of hf.in patients with hf there are disturbances in splanchnic microcirculation because of reduced perfusion increased congestion and vasoconstriction caused by neurohumoral acti- vation.

in our study older hf patients were characterized by higher proportions of hypertension 6 of 10 older patients vs. 1 of 12 younger patients and hf with preserved ejection fraction hfpef 4 of 10 older patients vs. none of 12 younger patients .

at the species level eubacterium rectale and dorea longicatena were significantly reduced in the samples from hf patients compared to hc subjects 1.2 - 0.7 vs. 3.8 - 0.9 p  0.032 and 0.6 - 0.2 vs. 1.4 - 0.3 p  0.031 respectively .gut microbiota in younger and older patients with heart failuregiven that clinical characteristics and outcomes of hf are influenced by aging process  we next examined whether gut microbial communities of patients with hf varied according to age.

we then compared the composition of gut microbiota of younger hf patients younger than 60 years of age n  12 with that of older hf patients 60 years of age or older n  10. the richness and diversity of gut microbial com- munities within the individual as evaluated by chao1-estimated otu number and shannon index respectively were not significantly different between younger and older patients with hf 191 - 20 vs. 178 - 13 and 3.38 - 0.19 vs. 3.21 - 0.11 respectively .

our study shows that gut dysbiosis is also associated with hf and that hf-associated gut dysbiosis varies further according to age.eubacterium rectale and dorea longicatena were reduced in patients with hf and faecali- bacterium prausnitzii and clostridium clostridioforme were less abundant in older hf patients than in younger patients figs and .

we further compared the composition of gut microbiota of 12 hf patients younger than 60 years of age with that of 10 hf patients 60 years of age or older.

moreover the gut microbiota composition of older hf patients differed from that of younger hf patients.

these data also showed greater inter-individual diversity in the gut microbiota of hf patients compared to hc subjects .to investigate whether hf patients had significant changes in specific taxonomic groups of gut microbial communities we analyzed the relative abundances of 16s rrna reads assigned to each phylum genus or species.

while 16s rrna gene sequencing allows for taxonomic classification of microbes whole metagenome shotgun sequencing enables the identification of potential metabolic functions of microbiota .recent studies have demonstrated that hf patients had higher plasma levels of tmao a gut microbe-derived metabolite of choline or carnitine than control subjects and that elevated plasma tmao level was associated with higher mortality risk in hf patients .

how- ever none of those species reported were increased in the gut of hf patients in our study.tma may be produced in the human gut by highly complex community of microbial species both defined and currently undefined to be capable of producing tma.the composition of gut microbiota in hf patients can be modified not only by hemody- namic alterations but also by dietary habits comorbidities such as hypertension diabetes dys- lipidemia and chronic kidney disease and therapeutic interventions.

although relative abundances of specific oral bacteria were not significantly increased in the gut of hf patients in our study the observed differences in gut microbiota of hf patients can be affected by confounding factors such as medication.

our analysis revealed that the composi- tion of gut microbiota of older hf patients was different from that of younger hf patients figs and .

it is challenging to dissect the contribution of each of these factors to the observed differences in gut microbiota of hf patients in the larger-scale studies.the composition of gut microbiota of older adults is known to be distinct from that of younger adults  and gut microbiota profiles of older people vary substantially between individuals affected by several factors such as diet habitation morbidity and medication .

compared to younger hf patients older hf patients had diminished proportions of bacteroidetes and larger quan- tities of proteobacteria.

in our study ppis were taken by 5 of 12 younger hf patients and by 5 of 10 older hf patients.

