It is currently unknown whether such changes in the immune system accelerate the rate of dysbiosis.What are the changes in the BMDMs quantitative and qualitative after dysbiosis in different scenarios and diseases What are their effective levels to have a significant functional alteration What are the systemic and organ specific influencesIs gut microbiota profiling enough to know the extent of dysbiosis and qualitative and quantitative changes in the BMDMsWhat needs to be done to create a uniform gut microbiota among the research animals irrespective of their sourcestrainhousing conditions to avoid confounding influence of microbiota changes and results can be reproduced in different labs.Diabetes and obesity are bound to alter food ingestion pattern digestion efficiency water intake energy metabolism and gut peristalsis.

These scenarios prompted us to come with a set of tasks to be done to effectively direct the future research in the dysbiosis and to provide microbially uniform animals for research with a multi-disciplinary collaborative effort from industry and academia to save research dollars.

However research community needs guidelines on animal models and dysbiosis research to tackle the complexities associated with it.

232 2929-2930 2017. c 2016 Wiley Periodicals Inc.In a recent commentary it was brought into light that a common antibiotic in animals' water was used to treat the symptoms associated with the multiple sclerosis Servick 2016.

In another example Doxycycline has been reported to ameliorate myocardial infarction but the changes in the microbial populations and their metabolites have not been highlighted which might have contributed to the functional outcome as well Camp et al.

For example high fat feeding leads to changes in the gut microbiota especially the ones that produceH2S Lecomte et al.

However the contribution of such changes to the GI and plasma H2S pools is yet to be uncovered .

In another example It was reported that the microbial metabolomics might differ without significant changes in the microbial diversity between the vegan and omnivorous individuals Wu et al.

2930V E E R A N K I A N D T Y A G I The changes in the immune system and its influence on the microbiota and bioactive microbially derived metabolites BMDM need to be clarified.

How these changes influence microbiota and BMDMsAssessment of the intactness of the GI tissue which limits the availability of the BMDMs and possibly regulates microbiota composition need to be done simultaneously.Modulatory effects from the dormant microbiomes in the blood and other tissues of individuals which do not exhibit overt inflammatory symptoms need to be clarified.

