89 x 10 -20 andsordarialesunidentified1 r  0.63 p  4.74 x 10-16.cladorrhinum correlated with humicola r  0.63 p  1.02x 10-15 sordarialesunidentified1 r  0.70 p  2.72 x10-20 and pyronemataceaeunidentified r  0.67 p  3.12x 10-18. humicola correlated with inocybe r  0.60 p  2.99x 10-14 and sordarialesunidentified1 r  0.63 p  7.23 x 10-16. finally sordarialesunidentified1 correlated with pyronemataceaeunidentified r  0.63 p  1.35 x 10-15. we then determined the fungal relationships for all the identi- fied genera in each group.

lefse analysis identified the different abundant fungi in the c p and n groups respectively at various taxonomic levels d and key contributors to the clinical phenotypes in the c p and n groups elasiosphaeriaceaeunidentified sordarialesunidentified1 and microascales were increased whereas pleosporaceae and alternaria were decreased in late-stage crc.association networks of mycobiota in the crc polyp and control groupsto determine the relationships between different fungi spearman correlation was used coefficient threshold  0.6. the association of genera within the top 30 abundance was first selected for analysis in all samples fig.

pca showed the distribution of fungi inproximal and distal cancers a and also early- and late-stage crc b. correlation analysis in all samples of the three groups c and within each group including the c group d p group e and also n group fapproximately 25 of the detected fungal reads .

change in fungi at the phylum b and genus c levels in the c p and n groups.

ann surg oncol 1751435-1441strati f di paola m stefanini i albanese d rizzetto l lionetti p calabro a jousson o donati c cavalieri d de filippo c 2016 age and gender affect the composition of fungal population of the human gastrointestinal tract.

med mal infect 451-29-16sokol h leducq v aschard h pham hp jegou s landman c cohen d liguori g bourrier a nion-larmurier i cosnes j seksik p langella p skurnik d richard ml beaugerie l 2017 fungal microbiota dysbiosis in ibd.

1. fungal composition alterations in the colorectal cancer c polyp p and healthy control n groups.

2. fungal differences indicated by heatmap and linear discriminant analysis lda coupled with effect size analysis lefse in the colorectalcancer c polyp p and healthy control n groups.

3. relative fungal abundance with statistical significance in the colorectal cancer c polyp p and healthy control n groups.

circ res 12071183-1196strati f cavalieri d albanese d de felice c donati c hayek j jousson o leoncini s renzi d calabro a de filippo c 2017 new evidences on the altered gut microbiota in autism spectrum disorders.

the top 20 genera with statistical significance in the c and n groups are shown by boxplots a and the key contributors to the different clinicalphenotypes are shown by lefse b. the proportions with significance of the top 20 genera c and fold changes displayed by ratio of relative abundance between the p and n groups d negative only indicated the value change directionthe reason for this was uncertain however we speculated that the imbalanced microenvironment caused by a high abundance of bacteria and related immune responses might restrain the outgrowth of pseudozyma to limit its bloom in crc patients.although its numbers were small malassezia was also identified as an opportunistic fungus in crc and its precan- cerous lesions in the present study.

4. principle component analysis pca in various cancer locations and stages and the correlation with the colorectal cancer c polyp p and healthy control n groups.

little evidence has been proposed that relies on a high-throughput platform to explore the role of fungi in diseases such as polyps and crc.in this study we showed for the first time that fecal sam- ples from crc and polyp patients contain different species of fungi.

we observed fungal dysbiosis in colon polyps and crc including decreased diversity in polyp patients an increased ascomycotabasidiomycota ratio and an increased proportion of opportunistic fungi trichosporon and malassezia which might favor the progression of crc.

s2c d e. the simpson index showed no difference between the crc and polyp groups or between the crc and control groups however we observed a lower simpson index in the control group than in the polyp group adjusted p 0.03 fig.

