such confounding factors need to be accounted for in order to decrease skepticism for studies that suggest later immunological or metabolic diseases that differ because of the mode of delivery and modulation of the infant microbiome.strategies for restoration of the vaginal microbes in c-section-delivered infantsif exposure to vaginal microbes during vaginal delivery results in colonization with vaginal microbes and c-section does not an obvious remedy would be to expose infants born by c-section to vaginal microbes.

in this review we will also discuss recent methods to restore vaginal microbes after c-section delivery.mode of delivery and the infant microbiomeuntil recently the fetal-maternal unit was believed to be sterile and only to be- come colonized at birth through contact with the microbial community in the vaginal canal.

however there are confounding effects that lessen the clarity of whether the microbial differences were simply due to the process of c-section versus vaginal delivery.epidemiological studies suggesting differences in health outcomesas for short-term outcomes there are little data to support that c-section versus vaginal delivery results in increased complications such as necrotizing entero- colitis or infections in the immediate neonatal period.

nevertheless some of the important trends found in the literature regarding microbial composition differences in vaginally versus c-section-de- livered children include 1 children born by c-section elective c-section in particular exhibit diminished diversity in their microbiota 2 less health-in- ducing bacterial species such as lactobacilli are seen after c-section delivery andthere appears to be a trend toward more pathogenic bacteria a possible dys- biosis in the developing microbiome of c-section-delivered infants.in terms of diversity a few studies have shown evidence of persistent negative associations between c-section delivery and infant microbial diversity and rich- ness.

basel c 2017dysbiosis in the neonatal period role of cesarean sectionjosef neudivision of neonatology department of pediatrics university of florida gainesville fl usaabstractfrom epidemiological studies and studies done evaluating microbiomes in infants there is a strong signal that the infants born by elective cesarean section c-section develop microbiota that differs from those babies born by vaginal delivery.

therefore early-life perturbations of the microbiota are likely to lead to metabolic immunological and epigenetic con- sequences that have major effects on the developing individual and perhaps may even affect subsequent generations.in this review the effects of c-section versus vaginal delivery on the subse- quent development of the microbiota and how this relates to health outcomes will be discussed.

furthermore there are various environmental perturbations such as maternal diet maternal body habitats such as body mass index the use of antibiotics as wellas various other drugs introduction of human milk versus donor milk versus for- mula early stressors and other factors that may play a role in confounding results of epidemiological studies as well as studies of microbiota in babies who are de- livered by c-section versus vaginal delivery.

however there is ample evidence that colonization of the fetal-maternal unit begins earlier than birth since microbes have been identified in the amniotic fluid umbilical cord blood fetal membranes meco- nium and placenta 4. these prenatal microbial conditions are seldom men- tioned in studies comparing the effects of c-section versus vaginal delivery.

1. our group found that the microbiota measured in meco- nium during the first 48 h after birth was more diverse in preterm infants deliv- ered by c-section 14. this begs the question of whether meconium or samples derived within the first 24 h after birth are reasonable samples to evaluate the differences between c-section versus vaginal delivery and whether gestational age matters in terms of the developing microbiome when related to mode of de- livery.

1. confounding factors that can affect the establishment of infant gut microbiota in addition to mode of delivery.delivered by vaginal delivery versus c-section appear to have the known benefi- cial effects.

the initial medical reason for the c-section and the socioeconomic status of the mother and family may play a significant role as to whether the infant is delivered by c-section versus vaginal delivery.

all newborns including those born by vaginal delivery had an abundance of bacteria categorized as gut derived when evaluated immediately after birth.

7 shows that by 4 months after birth breastfeeding leads to a microbial colonization in c-section-delivered babies that is somewhat similar to that of vaginally delivered babies 7. however none of these techniques have thus far been demonstrated to provide a short- or long-term subsequent benefit.concluding remarksfrom this review it is obvious that there is a strong signal that infants born by elective c-section develop microbiota that differs from those babies born by vaginal delivery.

this is seen in association with epidemiological studies that show increased odds ratios of immunological and metabolic diseases in those babies born by c-section versus vaginal delivery.

proc natl acad sci u s a 201511211060-11065.pandey pk verma p kumar h et al com- parative analysis of fecal microflora of healthy full-term indian infants born with different methods of delivery vaginal vs ce- sarean acinetobacter sp.

