while there was no significant difference between blank control and fmt-c in the 7th day b-e. fmt fecal microbiota transplantation fmt-c group the group that received the fecal microbiota of constipation patients fmt-h group the group that received the fecal microbiota of healthy controls nd normal diet n.s no significancep  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001.fecal microbiota of constipation patients decreased 5-ht levels in the mice intestinal tissues.

realtime-pcr results showed sert mrna level was up-regulated in intestinal tissues of the fmt-c group compared with the fmt-h group a. intestinal protein levels of sert in both groups were analyzedby western blot using internal control protein b-actin for total protein b. proteins were quantified by densitometry using an imaging processor program image j c. similarly sert mrna levels in caco-2 cells were detected after the treatment with fecal microbiota from the three groups blank control fmt-h fmt-c for 3 h and the concentration of fecal microbiota was 1 to 2000 d. protein levels of sert in caco-2 cells treated with fecal microbiota from the three groups for 3 h were analyzed by western blot e. quantitative analysis of the protein levels of sert in caco-2 cells were processed by densitometry with image j f. the uncropped blots with molecular weights are shown in fig.

these data suggested that constipation-induced dysbiosis could reduce the intestinal goblet cell and destroy the intestinal barrier function.figure 3. fecal microbiota of constipation patients upregulated sert levels in the mice intestinal tissues.

the mice which received fecal microbiota from patients with constipation presented a reducing in intestinal peristalsis and abnormal defecation parameters including the frequency of pellet expulsion fecal weight and fecal water content.

colonizing of intestinal microbiota to germ-free rats showed that lactobacillusfigure 4. fecal microbiota of constipation patients decreased 5-ht levels in the mice intestinal tissues.

these findings further supports that intestinal microbiota is the potential risk factors for constipation and probiotic treatment could potentially ameliorate chronic constipation-.one of the most important findings was the level of akkermansia was higher in the mice which received fecal microbiota from patients with constipation.

fmt-c group the group that received the fecal microbiota of constipation patients fmt-h group the group that received the fecal microbiota of healthy controls sert serotonin transporter n.s no significance p  0.05 p  0.01 p  0.001.discussionchronic constipation is a prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorder worldwide and can lead to significant impairment of quality of life and also impose considerable costs to society.

pca principal component analysis fmt-c group the group that received the fecal microbiota of constipation patients fmt-h group the group that received the fecal microbiota of healthy controls.in addition some studies reported that chronic constipation was related with variety of factors such as cir- cumferential stretch and mechanical stimulation of the mucosa .

our study revealed that the alteration of intestinal microbiota decreased intestinal motility in the fmt-c group suggesting that intestinal dysbiosis was at least one of the important reasons of the occurrence of chronic constipation.

taken together these data indicated that the intestinal flora of patients with constipation markedly slowed down the gastrointestinal motility in mice.fecal microbiota of constipation patients upregulated sert levels in the mice intestinal tis- sues.

gitt gastrointestinal transient time fmt-c group the group that received the fecal microbiota of constipation patients fmt-h group the group that received the fecal microbiota of healthy controls.

paraffin sections of colonic tissues were immunofluorescence stained with primary antibodies against cga to mark chromaffin cells red and to mark 5-ht green c. quantitation of 5-ht cell numbers per field of colonic epitheial tissue d. quantitation of cga cell number per field of colonic epithelial tissue e. fmt-c group thegroup that received the fecal microbiota of constipation patients fmt-h group the group that received the fecal microbiota of healthy controls 5-ht 5-hydroxytryptamine cga chromaffin granules protein a gitt gastrointestinal transient time.

pas staining showed that the average number of pas positive cells in each crypt of the colon in the fmt-c group was significantly lower than that in the fmt-h group a. muc2 immunohistochemistry showed the average number of muc2-positive cells in the crypts of the mice in the colon in two groups b. scale bar 50 mm.fmt-c group the group that received the fecal microbiota of constipation patients fmt-h group the group that received the fecal microbiota of healthy controls.

we also found that the sert expression in the colonic tissue was significantly upregulated after fmt which suggested intestinal dysbosis might increase the 5-ht re-uptake by increasing the intestinal sert level and change the bowel function of the mice.previous studies have investigated the intestinal dysbiosis in chronic constipation  .

slow transit constipation stc.in conclusion our data suggest that gut dysbiosis could upregulate the expression of intestinal sert in the intestine and then increase the uptake and resolution of intestinal 5-ht to inhibit the intestinal motility.

