during s. enterica-induced colitis luminal oxygen availability increases as indicated by an oxygen respiration-dependent bloom of the pathogen in the colon and a concomitant decline in the abundance of obligate anaerobic clostridia 30. similarly colonic crypt hyperplasia triggered by the murine enteric pathogen citrobacter rodentium family enterobacteriaceae elevates oxygen availability in the gut lumen thereby driving pathogen expansion through aerobic respiration 31. aerobic respiration also drives a luminal expansion of commensal escherichia coli family enterobacteriaceae dur- ing chemically induced colitis in mice thereby further supporting the idea that intestinal inflammation increases oxygen availability in the large bowel 29. collectively these data show that increased oxygen availability during intestinal inflammation drives a dysbiotic expansion of facultative anaerobic enterobacteriaceae.intestinal inflammation also increases the availability of alternative electron acceptors that support growth of facultative anaerobic bacteria through anaerobic respira- tion summarized in .

the colonic epithelium is hypoxic but intestinal inflammation or antibiotic treatment increases epithelial oxygenation in the colon thereby disrupting anaerobiosis to drive a dysbiotic expansion of facultative anaerobic proteobacteria through aerobic respiration.

these observations suggest a dysbiotic expansion of proteobacteria is a potential diagnostic microbial signature of epithelial dysfunction a hypothesis that could spawn novel preventative or therapeutic strategies for a broad spectrum of human diseases.addressdepartment of medical microbiology and immunology school of medicine university of california davis one shields ave davis ca 95616 usacorresponding author ba umler andreas j introductionthe human large intestine is host to a dense microbial community that is dominated by obligate anaerobic bac- teria .

this epithelial dysfunction disrupts anaerobiasis in the lumen thereby driving an expansion of facultative anaerobic proteobacteria by aerobic respiration.

oxygen contributes to a dysbiotic expansion of enterobacteriaceae after antibiotic treatment during infection with enteric pathogens and in mouse models of chemically induced colitis 293031. recent work suggests that colonic epithelial cells colo- nocytes are the main cellular source of oxygen in the large intestine 3031.the amount of oxygen diffusing across the apical mem- brane of epithelial cells is severely limited in the large bowel because the colonic surface is hypoxic with surface colonocytes containing less than 1 oxygen po2  7.6 mmhg  a. for comparison normoxic host tissue contains between 3 and 10 oxygen po2 between 23 and 70 mmhg reviewed in .

a conse- quent reduction in the luminal butyrate concentration leads to a metabolic reprogramming of surface colono- cytes during s. enterica-induced colitis which in turn increases epithelial oxygenation thereby driving a luminal pathogen expansion by aerobic respiration 30 b.collectively these data suggest that a disruption of intestinal homeostasis by antibiotic treatment or intesti- nal inflammation can eliminate epithelial hypoxia there- by increasing the amount of oxygen emanating from the colonic surface .

however a better understanding of the mecha- nisms controlling epithelial energy metabolism is needed to identify host proteins as potential targets for interven- tion strategies.the idea that an expansion of proteobacteria is a microbial signature of epithelial dysfunction also has important ramifications for conditions where drivers of gut dysbiosis are poorly understood.

available online at sciencedirectdysbiotic proteobacteria expansion a microbial signature of epithelial dysfunctionyael litvak mariana x byndloss rene' e m tsolis and andreas j ba umlera balanced gut microbiota is important for health but the mechanisms maintaining homeostasis are incompletely understood.

minor constituents commonly found within a balanced gut microbiota in- clude obligate anaerobic bacteria belonging to the phyla actinobacteria and fusobacteria .the dominance of obligate anaerobic bacteria in the large bowel is likely a consequence of the severe oxygen limitation that characterizes this host environment which in turn has important consequences for the catabolic pathways used to break down nutrients.

thus the dominance of obligate anaerobic bacteria in the large intestine ensures production of metabolites that maintain gut homeostasis.an expansion of proteobacteria is a microbial signature of gut dysbiosischanges in the composition of the gut-associated micro- bial community are associated with many human diseases but the mechanisms driving this imbalance dysbiosis are incompletely understood.

however a dis- ruption of the gut microbiota by antibiotic treatment results in a dysbiotic expansion of facultative anaerobic proteobacteria in mice  and humans .

furthermore a bloom of proteobac- teria is observed during conditions of low-level intestinal inflammation including irritable bowel syndrome  and metabolic syndrome .2 bacterial systems biologyfigure 1a dysbiotic expansion of proteobacteria is a microbial signature of epithelial dysfunction.

during gut dysbiosis right surface colonocytes obtain energy by anaerobic glycolysis which leads to increased epithelial oxygenation.

the association of this microbial signature with a broad spectrum of gastrointestinal imbalances raises the possibility that these disorders all generate a common driver of proteobacteria expansion.bacterial respiration is a common driver of gut dysbiosisfacultative anaerobic enterobacteriaceae phylum proteo- bacteria are found in increased proportion in the rectal mucosa close to epithelial cells and are absent or present in lower proportions in human feces which is correlated with the distribution of oxygen emanating from host tissue 2425. increased oxygen availability at the ileostomy of small bowel transplant patients is associatedwith an increased relative abundance of enterobacteria- ceae .

increased oxygen availability would disrupt anaerobiosis in the large bowel and confer an ecological selective advantage to facultative anaerobic bacteria thereby driving their expansion within the gut-associated microbial community .

