OPENReceived 6 July 2017Accepted 9 November 2017 Published xx xx xxxxDysbiosis of the microbiome in gastric carcinogenesisNatalia Castano-Rodriguez1 Khean-Lee Goh2 Kwong Ming Fock3 Hazel M. Mitchell1  Nadeem O. Kaakoush4The gastric microbiome has been proposed as an etiological factor in gastric carcinogenesis.

Further a range of independent studies assess- ing gastric microbiota in relation to Correa's Cascade have demonstrated that significant differences exist in the microbiota of those with gastritis intestinal metaplasia IM and GC- suggesting that dysbiosis in the stomach is dynamic and correlates with progression to gastric carcinogenesis.In contrast a study by Yang et al.which included subjects presenting with non-atrophic gastritis AG and IM from a high GC risk area Tuquerres and a low GC risk area Tumaco in Colombia failed to identify any corre- lation between gastric microbiota composition and histological diagnosis.

Here the viable gastric microbiome was profiled in FD and GC subjects to identify microbial changes across disease that may be relevant to gastric carcinogenesis.Previous studies have reported conflicting results on the a-diversity of the gastric microbiome across the GC cascade.

Further it remains to be seen whether the changes in the gastric microbiome are involved in the progression of disease or are a conse- quence of disease.In conclusion the viable gastric microbiome appears to be significantly affected by H. pylori serological status and altered in gastric carcinogenesis.

We compared the gastric microbiota in subjects presenting with gastric cancer GC n 12 and controls functional dyspepsia FD n  20 from a high GC risk population in Singapore and Malaysia.

These results are of significance as they suggest that the ability of the infection to illicit an immune response in the host plays an important role in shaping the composition of the gastric microbiome.The global composition of the gastric microbiome in our cohort was also significantly different in GC as has been previously observed- however we were able to confirm that these differences were independent ofH.

Importantly the differences across gastric carcinogenesis and H. pylori serological status were independent of each other highlighting the importance of host- H. pylori interactions but also suggesting a role for the gastric microbiome in disease progression.

A recent meta-analysis on the relationship between H. pylori and IBD hypoth- esized that a co-exclusion relationship between this gastric bacterium and related members of the Helicobacter and Campylobacter genera in the intestinal tract may be one mechanism by which H. pylori exerts a protective effect in IBD.Another important finding was the effect of H. pylori serological status on the predicted global metabolic contribution of the gastric microbiome an effect that was not observed in disease.

Differences in gastric mucosal microbiota profiling in patients with chronic gastritis intestinal metaplasia and gastric cancer using pyrosequencing methods.

Different gastric microbiota compositions in two human populations with high and low gastric cancer risk in Colombia.

