recent unpublished evidence reports that focal lesion occurrence is mouse strain dependent and that they are enriched in a selected bac- terial community.therefore we suggest the hypothe- sis that focal lesions may fuel changes in the host microbiota reprogramming its disease-conditioning nature and that the transfer of such pre-selected com- munity may results in dysbiosis-associated transmissi- ble disease in a susceptible host tnfdare mice.paneth cell dysfunction does not precede inflammation and ileal pathology in tnfdare mouse model of cd-like ileitisabnormalities in paneth cells structure and function have been increasingly recognized in ibd and a grow- ing body of evidence on paneth cell lineage ablation supports their role in inflammation.emerging data from genome-wide association studies gwas in human cohorts also suggest that paneth cells may play a critical role in the disease pathogenesis of ibd spe- cifically targeting cd.

failure of paneth cell functionality determined by the reduced protein expression of lysozyme and cryptdin-2 using immunofluorescence analysis was an event subse- quent to inflammation and that was not caused by paneth cell apoptosis in tnfdare mice.one tempt- ing hypothesis is that the generation of reacting oxy- gen species ros in response to inflammatory processes may lead to the functional exhaustion of paneth cells.this is speculative and requires valida- tion in tnfdare mice.

nevertheless in the tnfdare mouse model paneth cell loss was a secondary event to inflammation and tissue pathol- ogy.given that tnf reduces epithelial barrier func- tion by promoting sharp increases in tight junction permeabilityit can be speculated that specific levels of tnf such as those detected in lowr and r mice are necessary to induce intestinal epithelial cells impairment resulting in paneth cell failure.

a-defensins in the crypts of these mice mirroring paneth cell mal- function found in cd patients carrying the nod2 mutation.mice bearing mutations in genes associ- ated with autophagy atg16l1 and irgm genes or in a gene involved in the endoplasmic reticulum stress response xbp1 develop exacerbated intestinal inflammation and abnormalities in paneth cell mor- phology and function including diminished antimi- crobial peptide secretion.it is necessary to acknowledge that not all studies support the finding that the deficiency of a-defensinsexpression is a predisposing factor for cd.

of note our transfer experiments of microbiota from r mice into gf tnfdare mice provided clear evidence that tran- scriptional activation of tnf and ileal pathology pre- ceded paneth cell dysfunction .

1 53-58addendumdysbiosis in crohn's disease - joint action of stochastic injuries and focal inflammation in the gutludovica f. butto and dirk hallertechnische universiteurat meurunchen chair of nutrition and immunology freising germanyarticle historyreceived 21 july 2016 revised 27 september 2016 accepted 7 december 2016keywordsdysbiosis microbiota microbiome inflammation crohn's disease tnfdare ibd intestinal epithelial cells iec stochastic injuriesdysbiotic microbiota induces transmissible cd-like ileitis in susceptible hostour laboratory recently demonstrated that germ-free gf tnfdare mice do not develop cd-like ileitis supporting the initial hypothesis that bacterial trig- gers are essential tassels of disease pathogenesis.of high relevance only specific dysbiotic bacterial communities so-called responder r or aggressive microbiota are associated to a disease phenotype in these mice capable to transmit disease once trans- ferred into a gf susceptible host tnfdare mice.

key genes involved in paneth cell function include xbp1 ormdl3 nod2 atg16l1 and irgm.

intact villi in gf mice 12 weeks old are indicated by white arrows while eroded villi are highlighted by orange arrows.nod2 gene in mice results in paneth cell dysfunction with a substantial reduction in the expression of a spe- cific class of antimicrobial peptides i.e.

for instance simms and coworkers showed that reduced levels of a-defensins are seen in cd however this reduction is correlated with inflammation rather than with the nod2 genotype of patients.this observa- tion is in agreement with our findings demonstrating that paneth cell dysfunction is the consequence of inflammation rather than its cause.

a growing body of evi- dence reports that several ibd susceptibility genes are associated with paneth cell dysfunction.

reduced paneth cell alpha-defensins in ileal crohn's disease.

nature 2008 456259-63 pmidliu b gulati as cantillana v henry sc schmidt ea daniell x grossniklaus e schoenborn aa sartor rb taylor ga. irgm1-deficient mice exhibit paneth cell abnormalities and increased susceptibility to acute intes- tinal inflammation.

the genetic deletion offigure 3. inflammation tnf levels in total tissue samples and tissue pathology cd-like ileitis he score precede loss of paneth cells function in tnfdare mouse model.figure 2. stochastic occurrence of focal lesions in the gut lining generates local sites of inflammation.

paneth's disease j crohns colitis 2010 4523-31 pmid21122555 jostins l ripke s weersma rk duerr rh mcgovern dp hui ky lee jc schumm lp sharma y anderson ca et al.

paneth cells as a site of origin for intestinal inflammation.

