thus dysfunction of the iecs leads to perturbation of the gut microbiota and enhances susceptibility to intestinal inflammation see review by okumura and takeda in this issue.the crosstalk between the gut microbiota and the host immune system begins at birth.

all rights reserved 2092-641317dysregulation of gut microbiota and chronic inflammatory disease from epithelial defense to host immunityexperimental  molecular medicine 2017 49 e337 doi1 published online 26 may 2017he mammalian microbiota is a community of commensal microorganisms including bacteria archaea eukaryotesand viruses.

two large-scale studies using ngs the eur- opean meta-genomics of the human intestinal tract metahit and the us human gut microbiome project hmpprovide baseline data on the composition and function of the human microbiome.

in addition to their barrier function iecs serve as 'mediators' maintaining a balanced relationship between gut microbes and the host immune system by secreting cytokines chemokines and hormones.

co-production of metabolites by the host and gut microbiota as they metabolize food and xenobiotics involves these immune-mediated signaling processes.

for example short-chain fatty acids scfas are important energy sources for both the gut microbiota and iecs.

various chronic diseases including inflamma- tory bowel disease multiple sclerosis rheumatoid arthritis asthma diabetes and obesity are associated with dysbiosis in the gut see review by lee and kim and review by kim et al.

in this issue.this themed issue includes three review articles describing how iecs are mediated between the gut microbiota and the host and how dysbiosis is linked to various diseases.

over the last decade our understanding of how the gut microbiota contributes to host health has progressed greatly.

succession of microbial consortia in the developing infant gut microbiome.

the long-term stability of the human gut microbiota.

science 2013 341 doi 10.1126science.1237439.spor a koren o ley r. unravelling the effects of the environment and host genotype on the gut microbiome.

a human gut microbial gene catalogue established by metagenomic sequencing.

prediction and quantification of bioactive microbiota metabolites in the mouse gut.

gut microbiota metabolites and host immunity.

