some of these otus were detected almost exclusively in patients with severe influenza for example porphyromonas otu31 was detected in 11 76  patients with severe influenza but only 2 9  patients with mild influenza.in addition we performed a similar statistical analysis on the severe influenza group only to determine whether there were differences between patients with neurological and respira- tory complications.

in total 72 patients were selected including 42 patients with mild influenza 11 patients with respiratory distress symp- toms and 19 patients with neurological complications.

only 36 patients had samples with sufficient quantity and quality of dna for sequencing including 22 patients with mild influ- enza 4 patients with respiratory distress symptoms and 10 patients with neurological complications.16s rrna sequencing and analysisgenomic dna was extracted from de-identified patient respiratory samples n36.

among the patients who developed severe influenza 4 patients had severe respiratory complications requiring ven- tilatory support and hospitalization in an intensive care unit icu and 10 patients had neurological complications requiring hospitalization in the icu n6 from 10 60  or in other units.

overall we found that increased bacterial diversity in the upper respiratory tract was associ- ated with influenza severity.differential microbial abundance between patients with mild or severe influenzastatistical analysis to characterize the differential microbial species abundance between patients with mild influenza and patients with severe influenza was performed using a gener- alized linear model adjusting for age sex time since symp- tom onset and sample nature.

among the differ- ential otus one was among the five most abundant otus detected in the respiratory microbiome profiles staphylo- coccus aureus was more abundant in patients with mild influenza than in patients with severe influenza .the remaining 11 differential otus had limited abundance 3  on average and were all more abundant in patients with severe influenza.

based on their clinical course after sample collection patients were classified into two groups patients with mild influenza or patients with respiratory or neurologicalcomplications the severe influenza group.

recently reported that the oro- pharyngeal microbiota of a pool of patients with h1n1 pneumonia was different from that of patients with non- h1n1 pneumonia .

such a signature could be used as a prognostic biomarker for early diagnosis of severe influenza.resultsselected patientswe profiled the microbial communities of 36 np samples collected at the time of hospital arrival from patients classi- fied retrospectively into two groups based on their clinical course patients with mild influenza n22 or severe influ- enza n14 outcomes.

finally cycle threshold ct values from influenza real-time rt- pcr as described in the methods section were used as a proxy measure of viral load and were not significantly dif- ferent between the groups suggesting that there is notable 1. a baseline demographic and clinical characteristics of all patients included in the study and b clinical evolution and therapeutic management of all patients included in the studynone of these comorbidities were previously associated with changes in np microbiota composition.

after adjusting for covariates the type of severe influenza complication was not significantly associ- ated with whole-microbiota profiles table s3.patients with mild influenza have a less diverse np microbiota than patients that develop severe influenzawe further tested whether np microbiota diversity alpha diversity was also associated with the patients' demographics andor clinical features.

patients with mild influenza had significantly lower bacterial diversity average h0.57 than patients with severe influenza average h2.03.

3. patients developing severe influenza have more diverse np bacterial communities than patients with mild influenza.

4. bacterial species that were differentially abundant between patients with mild and severe influenza a and between patients with respiratory and neurological complications.

the species that were found to be more abundant in patients with severe influenza included prevotella melaninogenica and veillonella dispar - which are anaerobic gram-negative bacteria that are part of the normal oral  and respiratory tract microbiota  and can cause anaerobic pulmonary infections  or menin- gitis and endocarditis  - and granulicatella elegans a member of the nutritionally variant streptococci which are common components of the oral microbiota that have beentable 4. loocv performance characteristics of minimal microbial signatures in discriminating patients with mild versus severe influenza outcomesonly the rules predicted in all cross-validation instances are displayed in this table.

