however given that 10-30 of women in north america are colonized with gbs and receive iap during labor   there has been a surprising lack of effort to address long-term effects of iap on immune development and the health of their offspring.early postnatal events dramatically alter the microbiome with impact on long- term health outcomes but a causative role of immune changes in this remains unexploredfeeding mode breast vs. formula as well as antibiotic exposure during the neonatal period here defined as up to day of life 28 have clearly been linked to changes in microbiota  their causal relationship to immune development and clinical outcome have surprisingly not been well delineated .feeding modedifferences in the microbiota of bf and formula-fed ff infants were first reported nearly 100 years ago with compounds in breast milk found to promote the growth of bifidobacteria this bifidus factor is now recognized as human milk oligosaccha- rides .

the objective of our review is to highlight the interaction of host immune ontogeny with the developing microbiome in early life as a critical window of susceptibility for lifelong disease as well as to identify the enormous potential to protect and promote lifelong health by specifically targeting this window of opportunity.keywords microbiome immunity and infections ontogeny immune diseases probioticsintroductiona key function of the immune system is to interact with and respond to the environment .

in particu- lar a reduced tlr7 mrna expression was detected in intestinal samples of infants whose mothers received b. lactis while the combination of b. lactis with lactobacillus gg was associatedneonatal antibiotic exposureday 7 and 30 of lifefirst weeks of lifereduced proportions of bifidobacteria and increased proportions of enterobacteria no changes in lactobacillus and bacteroides at any time increased abundance ofenterococcaceae  -with decreased tlr6 mrna expression in the fetal intestine .moreover oral supplementation with lactobacillus rhamnosusformula feedingreduced abundance of bifidobacteriaand lactobacilli table 2  effect of perinatal perturbances on newborn's health.perturbancehealth condition andor disease associatedage at onsetreferencecesarean deliverytype 1 diabetes celiac diseases childhood and adult obesity asthma allergic disease bronchitisfirst 2 years of life to adult life -antibiotics exposure before 6 months of ageincreased risk for corticosteroid-treated wheezing necrotizing enterocolitis late-onset sepsis early mortality obesity and exacerbation of hypersensitivity to pneumonitisfirst year of life--school age- formula feedingincreased risk for diarrheal disease mortality diabetes and overweight.

while the role of sfb or similar bacteria in the neonatal period has yet to be defined one survey of sfb abundance across species and ages found sfb to colonize humans by 2 years of age but could no longer be found after the third year of life suggesting a possible early-life restricted colonization for these bacteria in humans .while much of the necessary detailed knowledge is still amiss current data clearly support the notion that perturbations of microbiota in the early-life imprint the host immune phenotype for a long time maybe lifetime and can manifest as immune- mediated disease later in life.

am j obstet gynecol 2014 210179-93. docardwell cr stene lc joner g cinek o svensson j goldacre mj et al.

j immunol 2014 1931213-22. dophares cr lynfield r farley mm mohle-boetani j harrison lh petit s et al.

dokull i melen e alm j hallberg j svartengren m van hage m et al.

however given that the presence of bacterial products in fetal tissues was only recently discovered the relevance of in utero colonization for clinical outcomes in humans has not yet been determined.perinatal medical interventions profoundly alter the newborn microbiome with lasting impact on immune development and health outcomesdelivery mode cesarean vs. vaginal delivery and intrapartum antibiotic use represent two rather common perinatal events that significantly alter a newborn's microbiota immune ontogeny and health outcomes even later life see and .cesarean delivery cdcesarean deliveries have increased globally from 6.7 in 1990 to 19.1 in 2014 with rates above 30 in several countries such as the united states brazil and china .

isme j 2013 7615-21. doaagaard k ma j antony km ganu r petrosino j versalovic j. the placenta harbors a unique microbiome.

one of the first detailed longitudinal surveys of the intestinal microbiota in its first year of postnatal development found a rapidly changing succession of bacterial taxa beginning with aerobes such as streptococcus and staphylococcus in the first week of life that soon are replaced by obligate anaerobes like prevotella and veillonella which then continue to feature prominently into adult life .

possible association with a higher occurrence of early-onset inflammatory bowel disease atopic disease and ankylosing spondylitis when compared to breastfed infantsfirst year of life up to 8 years of life  to spontaneous vaginal delivery .

for example human cd newborns harbor fewer iga igg and igm-secreting cells throughout the first year of life  as well as lower levels of th1-supporting chemokines cxcl10 and cxcl11  lower levels of ifng and il-8 and lower cd4 t-cell responses to tetanus toxoid  over the first 2 years of life.

the highest-powered study compared 35 iap to 49 control infants at days of life 7 and 30 using quantitative pcr for select bacterial taxa finding fecal bac- terial counts of bifidobacterium alone were reduced at day of life 7 only while lactobacillus and bacteroides were unaffected at any time .

only one other group has described alterations of the microbiota due to iap and did so for a cohort of canadian infants receiving iap either for gbs prophylaxis or cd and compared their microbiota at 3 months and 1 year of life finding that iap was also associated with lower bacteroides as well as lower levelsof parabacteroides but higher enterococcus and clostridium levels at 3 months of life among both vaginally and cesarean delivered infants .

for exam-ple bf is associated with lower risk for eczema and recurrent wheeze in first year of life  with exclusive bf for 4 months associated with reduced risk for asthma up to 8 years of age  and in another study breastfeeding for less than 4 months was associated with increased corticosteroid-treated wheezing episodes in the first year of life .

