when comparing between ages within the same group pancreatic islets from con pigs had higher insulin content p  0.05 and 45 higher insulin release index at pnd 49 compared with pnd 21. in contrast there were no differences in either insulin content or insulin release index between the two ages in anti pigs.we then quantified pancreatic b-cell area at pnd 21 and 49. formalin-fixed samples were sectioned and stained for insulin b-cell and glucagon a-cell.

at pnd 21 isolated islets from anti pigs had two-fold higher insulin content compared to con p  0.05. in addition islets from anti pigs were more responsive to high glucose stimulation as indicated by a higher insulin release index compared to con  p  0.01. however at pnd 49 there was no difference in either insulin content or insulin release index between the two treatment groups.

pigs treated with antibiotics had hyper-developed or early matured pancreatic islets increased insulin content and insulin release index compared to control pigs already at pnd 21 followed by a significant decrease in b-cell area from pnd 21 to pnd 49. in contrast isolated islets from control pigs saw increased insulin content over this same period.

by adopting this well-controlled animal model that resembles traits of human infants we aimed to 1 investigate the effects of antibiotic exposure before weaning day 0 to 14 on metabolic outcomes later in life 2 examine the impact of antibiotic exposure on pancreatic development and 3 determine antibiotic-induced changes in microbial composition and metabolism in order to explore the possible mechanisms of early-life antibiotic exposure and metabolic outcomes later in life.resultsearly life antibiotic exposure alters glucose metabolism.

representative immunofluorescent staining sections are shown in compared to con pigs anti pigs had a non-significant higher  p  0.09 fractional b-cell area at pnd 21 which agreed with the gsis result that anti pigs at pnd 21 had higher insulin content in iso- lated islets.

similar to previous studies antibiotic treatment did not cause significant global change in micro- biota however an increase in the abundance of enterobacteriaceae and erysipelotrichaceae was observed in anti pigs after 7-day antibiotic treatment.

however at pnd 49 b-cell area decreased significantly  p  0.05 compared to pnd 21 in anti pigs whereas con pigs had similar b-cell areas at pnd 21 and 49 2d.early life antibiotic exposure alters pancreatic islet development.

to further examine the effects of antibiotic exposure on scfa signaling expression of scfa receptors gpr41 and gpr43 were measured in colon tissue from pigs at pnd 21 and 49. there was no difference in gpr41 and gpr43 expression between the two treatment groups at pnd 21 5c however at pnd 49 gpr41 expression was 60 lower in the colon of anti pigs p  0.05.discussionthere is growing interest in the role of the gut microbiota in the global pandemic of obesity and type 2 diabetes t2d.

intestinal microbial alter- ation could lead to changes in scfa metabolism therefore we measured scfa concentrations in cecal content from pigs at pnd 21 and 49. at pnd 21 anti pigs had lower acetate concentration  p  0.05 and showed a trend for lower total scfa  p  0.08 compared to con pigs.

b beta diversity within group for anti and con pigs at pnd 7. relative proportion of c enterobacteriaceae and d erysipelotrichaceae at pnd 7. e lps concentrations serum endotoxin was measured in serum from pigs at pnd 7 14 and 21. n  6-7 for each group p  0.05.pigs that received therapeutic amoxicillin exposure at birth through pnd 14 had reduced glucose toler- ance at pnd 49 even though their b-cell area and islet function did not differ from control pigs at this age.

the changes observed in the current study sug- gest b-cells in anti pigs had a delayed apoptosis period compared to con which may have contributed to the glucose intolerance in anti pigs at pnd 49. indeed quantification of b-cell proliferation and apoptosis rates showed that at pnd 21 b-cells from anti pigs featured significantly lower apoptosis rates yet similar prolifer- ation rates compared to con.

openreceived 20 may 2016accepted 30 december 2016published 02 february 2017early life antibiotic exposure affects pancreatic islet development and metabolic regulationjiaying li1 kaiyuanyang1 tingting ju1 tracy ho1 catharine a. mckay1yanhua gao1 shay k. forget1 stephanie r. gartner1 catherine j. field1 catherine b. chan12  benjamin p. willing1childhood antibiotic exposure has been recently linked with increased risk of metabolic disease later in life.

therefore we explored the underlying mechanisms using a swine model that better mimics human infants than rodents and demonstrated that early life antibiotic exposure affects glucose metabolism 5 weeks after antibiotic withdrawal which was associated withchanges in pancreatic development.

these findings suggest a programming effect of early life antibiotic exposure that merits further investigation.antibiotics are frequently prescribed to infants and children to prevent bacterial infections resulting in high childhood antibiotic exposure rates worldwide.

although still unclear it is plausible that reduced gpr41 expression could play a role in the observed antibiotic induced changes in response to glucose challenge.in summary by using a swine model for human infants we provide direct evidence that early life antibiotic exposure leads to impaired glucose metabolism later in life.

