g-j percentage of prevotella treponema fibrobacter and lactobacillus in the faeces of yorkshire and tibetan pigs each n  5 in the classification of genus.gene transcripts were considerably higher in the yorkshire pigs than in the tibetan pigs.

taken together the tibetan pigs are more likely to have healthier microbiota communities compared to the yorkshire pigs.however surprisingly the proportion of spirochaetes in the faeces of the tibetan pigs was more than triple the proportion in the yorkshire pig faeces.

however dss administration significantly lowered the nod1 expression level in the tibetan group compared to that in the yorkshire group indicating that although the tibetan microbiota was likely to activate some of the prrs under normal physiological conditions once under the colitis condition this microbiota sup- pressed the activation of prrs and their downstream molecules including myd88 and nf-kb.

we tracked the downstream regulators of tlrnlr signalling the results showed that the nf-kb mrna level detected in the colons of the tibetan pigs was lower than that detected in the yorkshire pigs but we only observed a trend for higher myd88 expression in the yorkshire pigs p  0.09.part ii effect of the symbiotic bacteria intervention on immune traits and resistance to colitis induction.

moreover we showed that the commercially bred piglets accepted the yorkshire microbiota much more easily than the tibetan microbiota without triggering an observable immune response perhaps because the cross-bred piglets shared close genetic backgrounds with the yorkshire pigs.figure 6. quantitation of cytokines in colonic tissues from the piglets by elisa.

by contrast the tibetan strain is a domestic pig that is mainly distributed in the tibetan highlands and has striking phenotypic and physiological differences from lowland pigs that have allowed them to adapt to the extreme conditions.

however these immunological characteristics of the tibetan pigs were not reflected in the piglets that received their faecal microbiota instead the nod12 signalling of the recipients was activated by the tibetan microbiota.

therefore the aim of the present study was to characterize the role of the microbiota in directing host immune responses using a distinctive porcine model based on two extreme pig strains the yorkshire and the tibetan.

then we colonized recipient animals yorkshire piglets with the faecal microbiota from the tibetan pigs.

we performed a 16s rrna gene-based survey of faecal specimens obtained from yorkshire and tibetan pigs which consumed the same diet at all times.

the expression levels of several pro-inflammatory cytokines il-1b il-4 il-6 il-13 il-17 and tnf-a associated with tlrnlr signalling were evaluated in colon samples from yorkshire and tibetan pigs using commercially available elisa kits.

the yorkshire pigs showed higher intestinal levels of the measured pro-inflammatory cytokines tnf-a il-1b il-6 and il-17 than the tibetan pigs fig.

the abundances of the nlr nod1 and 2figure 1. analysis of the faecal microbiota of the yorkshire and tibetan pigs.

a 16s rrna gene surveys analysed by unweighted unifrac pcoa of the faecal microbiota of the yorkshire or tibetan pigs n  10. pc1 and pc2 are shown on the x-axis and y-axis respectively.

b relative abundance of the phyla in two pig strains yorkshire and tibetan pigs.

