in addition to cellular and humoral autoimmunity vascular damage is prevalent and chronic fibrosis affects the skin and many organs.preclinical disease models for ssc an innovative cellular immunization approachdespite considerable effort there are currently no preclinical models of ssc that recapitulate the three patho- mechanistic hallmarks of the human disease .

micro- angiopathy does not appear to develop in the immunized mice underlying the inability of preclinical disease models to fully recapitulate the pathomechan- istic spectrum of human ssc.early-life gut dysbiosis influences fibrosis propensity in the mouse employingtheirinnovative immunization-induced disease model advance a relatively novel concept for ssc pathogenesis based on gut dysbiosis.

2253commentarykey pathogenic cell types pathways and mediators and for evaluating the efficacy and mechanism of action of novel therapies.in its earliest stage ssc is domi- nated by autoimmune and inflamma- tory features with tissue infiltration with activated t and b cells mono- cytes macrophages innate lymphoid cells and dendritic cells  .

in particular widely used rodent models of skin and lung fibrosis induced by bleomycin or other noxiousagents typically cause only localized and self-limited fibrosis do not generate disease-specific autoanti- bodies and lack the microvascular features of ssc.

although the mice mount an anti-topoisomerase-i anti- body response similar to patients with ssc fibrosis preceded the appearance of these antibodies excluding their direct role in fibrosis initiation though perhaps not in its persistence.

the mecha- nistic links between the microbial alter- ations and increased fibrosis and potential direct connections between the gut microbiome and the skin   or the lung   or the effect of antibiotic by it- self on lung and skin fibrosis were not explored.

despite encouraging recent clinical trials with mycophenolate mofetil autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and drugs targeting transforming growth factor-b il-6 cd20b cells cannabinoid receptors and others effective disease-modifying therapy for ssc and other forms of fibrosis remains elusive.

the authors performed immu- nization with dendritic cells loaded with the topoisomerase-i peptide to induce immunity inflammation and skin and lung fibrosis in balbc mice.

to maximize the value of preclinical ssc models whether for understanding pathogenesis or evalu- ating the efficacy and mode of action of novel therapies a combination strategy using multiple complementary disease models is recommended  .present an inter- esting and potentially informative novel approach to model ssc predicated on the putative roles of dendritic cells and topoisomerase-i-specific autoim- munity.

found that early-life antibiotic exposure resulted in increased later-life fibrosis in the skin and lungs.

recent studies have started to unravel alter- ations in gut microbial composition and diversity that is dysbiosis associ- ated with ssc suggesting a potential pathogenic role .systemic sclerosis complex tripartite pathogenesisskin induration in ssc is invariably accompanied by internal organ fibrosis most prominent in the lungs that maycause considerable morbidity and mortality.

remarkably unlike other induc- ible models of ssc topoisomerase-i peptide-immunized mice develop durable fibrosis detectable as late as 10 weeks after the final immunization .

demonstrate that streptomycin treatment during early life that is in utero and during the perinatal period resulted in increased later-life skin and lung fibrosis in topoisomerase-ipeptide-immunized mice.

early-life antibiotic exposure was asso- ciated with altered expression of fibrosis- related genes and evidence of skin and pulmonary fibrosis and dysregulated t- cell responses in the lungs.

validation of these antibiotic exposure-induced fibrotic responses in alternate murine models of scleroderma in addition to the present topoisomerase- 1 autoimmunity-specific model will be eagerly awaited.summarythese concerns do not detract from the novelty of the conceptual model impli- cating early-life gut dysbiosis in subse- quent fibrosis propensity.

