additional studies   have suggested that maternal obesity can alter early gut microbes in the offspring although factors such as antibiotic use cesarean section delivery and weight gain during pregnancy might confound maternal obe- sity as a factor impacting early offspring microbiota composition.

maternal obesity or diabetes or maternal diet can also modify disease risk by altering the glycobiome of human milk.role of the microbiota in innate immunityhow the early microbiome impacts the immune system in the short- and long-term remains a critical concern.

given that inoculation of obese human or obese mouse microbiota to germ-free gf mice alters the assembly of their intestinal microbiome in a manner that favors adipogenesis and inflammation - modifications to the structure of the infant intestinal microbiome by maternal obesity is plausible and might carry similar metabolic risk to the infant.origins of the gut microbiotacurrent data suggest that the microbiome might begin to assemble earlier in development than previously thought.

therefore there seems to be a distinct microbial community indicative of nafld rather than solely of obesity which might suggest more specific microbial mechanisms that promote nash.supporting the idea that prebiotics can be therapeutic is a study showing that bovine milk oligosaccharides prevented hfd-associated increases in gut permeability dysbiosis and obesity in mice .

the early infant gut microbiome varies in association with a maternal high-fat diet.

our human studies  and those of others  using mrimrs have documented that maternal bmi predicts newborn intrahepato- cellular lipid storage suggesting risk factors for pediatric obesity nafld begin in early life even in utero and might permanently change the body's structure physiology immune system and metabolism leading to an increased lifetime disease risk .

a recent study showed that monocytes derived from newborn infants born to obese mothers displayed reduced lps responsiveness associated with altered cytokinepromoter methylation  suggestive of early programming of the innate immune system by maternal obesity.

while many factors alter the microbiome throughout life the early infant pattern of microbiome development can have life-long implications for disease risk   and the timing and dynam- ics of bacterial colonization later in development.

maternal obesity is associated with alterations in the gut microbiome in toddlers.

this review will focus on factors during pregnancy and the neonatal period that impact a neonate's gut microbiome as well as the mechanisms and possible links from early infancy that can drive increased risk for diseases including obesity and nafld.

changes in the early microbiome are associated with inflammatory diseases such as asthma allergies and increased obesity risk   .

a recent murine study reported that reversal of dysbiosis induced by maternal hfd and resulting pathologies might be possible by bacterial supplementation of defined microbial species in the offspring early in development but not later in life .

it is also important to note that maternal diet impacts multiple metabolic systems that can contribute to obesity such as behavior and appetite .with regard to specific gut bacteria in infants born to obese mothers we reported that vaginally delivered exclusively breast- fed infants with no neonatal or postnatal exposure to antibiotics born to mothers with obesity had a significant 50 reduction ingammaproteobacteria at 2 weeks of age compared with infants born to normal-weight mothers .

a delayed or reduced proteobacteria content might have important conse- quences on lipopolysaccharide lps production that is critical for immune education as discussed below.changes in early postnatal microbiota can alter disease riskmaternal obesity is frequently associated with cesarean delivery and this mode of delivery carries increased risk of pediatric obesity .

legacy effects of maternal obesity or diet exposure might direct the develop- ment of the infant microbiota and innate immunity and underlie common disorders including obesity and nafld.

