sequencing of the its region identi- fied reads that were confirmed to be c. albicans in the ah mice data deposited in the ncbi bioproject with accession number prjna382773.discussionthis study shows that when human infant microbiota associated with both ah and prospective allergy was used to colonize gf mice it resulted in offspring with increased intestinal and sys- temic th17 responses characterized by increased rorgt expres- sion among cd4 t-cells and foxp3-cd4 t-cells in particularas well as increased il-17a secretion.

however secretory iga which is induced during colonization with intestinal bacteria  was significantly elevated in the ah group compared with the nhl animals  again indicating that ah microbiota was associated with more robust mucosal immune responses.allergy-associated microbiota has a distinct microbial profilealthough the cecum and colon harbor the highest loads of bac- teria in the intestinal tract the small intestine is an important site for the induction of gut immune responses.

for de each symbol is equivalent to an individual animal small intestine n  12 no allergic heredity lactobacilli nhl n  14 allergic heredity lactobacilli ahl n  17 ah cecum n  12 nhl n  14 ahl n  18 ah and colon n  11 nhl n  13 ahl n  18 ah.

in the small intestine the enterobacteriaceae dominated  and ahl mice exhibited a lower diver- sity index at this site while diversity remained high in both the nhl and ah mice at all sampled loci .in both the nhl and ah cohorts the cecal and colonic microbiota were dominated by bacteroidetes more specifically by bacteroidaceae in the nhl mice and by porphyromona- daceae in ah mice .

the elevated serum antibody levels show that ah mice displayed altered functional b-cell properties howeverthis was not reflected in changes in the splenic cellular b-cell compartment.allergy-associated microbiota does not induce intestinal inflammationconsidering that the ah mice exhibited both increased intes- tinal and systemic th17 responses this could indicate that they harbored more reactive or pathogenic microbiota.

the intestinal microbiota differed markedly between the groups of mice but only exposure to microbiota associated with ah and known future allergy in children resulted in a t helper 17 th17-signature both systemically and in the gut mucosa in the mouse offspring.

81699.doi abbreviations ah allergic heredity ahl allergic heredity lactobacilli amp antimicrobial peptide clp colonic lamina propria elisa enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay gf germ-free iec intestinal epithelial cells ig immunoglobulin nhl no allergic heredity lactobacilli pbs phosphate-buffered saline pp peyer's patches th t helper treg regulatory t-cells.induced and dysregulated immune responses are considered to contribute to the development of allergy .

the 16s rrna sequence data have been deposited in the ncbi bioproject with accession number prjna382773.resultshuman infant microbiota associated with allergy promotes small intestinal th17 responsesin order to investigate the links between early-life microbial exposure of the intestinal tract and subsequent immune system phenotype the effects of different types of human microbiotawere tested by transplanting infant microbiota into gf mice and examining the offspring of these mice.

the children were subdivided based on history of atopic disease in the immediate family ah or no allergic heredity nh and on the presence of lactobacilli type i in feces at the time of or close to sampling l. for the human microbiota-associated mouse model individual infant fecal samples were randomly selected from three different groups of children previously associated with a low- or high-allergyrisk  the no allergic heredity lactobacilli nhl group low risk n  7 allergic heredity lactobacilli ahl group low risk n  6 and ah group high risk n  6 pooled within each group and used as the initial inoculum.

microbiota ah was pooled stool from children with ah but with no trace of group i lactobacilli .

multiple studies have examined the administration of probiotic bacterial strains to infants with ah in order to reduce the development of allergy.

the level of il-23 which drives il-22 expression by th17  was slightly increased in the ah group figure s5c in supplementary material.b-cell responses such as ige production are also affected by microbial context  which could have an impact on later lifeestablishment of allergy.

contrary to this assertion this study identified fungi only in mice colonized with microbiota associated withprospective allergy suggesting that fungi could contribute to the th17-signature observed in the ah mice.

ah is strongly connected with allergy but the risks of developing disease might be further influenced by the gut microbiota composition.

a number of studies focus- ing on children with allergic heredity ah reported correlations between reduced early-life intestinal microbial diversity and elevated risks of allergic sensitization and allergic rhinitis  and eczema -.

