in contrast when the am-microbiota recipient mice are exposed to mice that have received the more complex cr microbiota the exposure expands their microbiota toward a composition more akin to that of animals that received the cr microbiota in the first place.the diet-induced loss of diversity appears to provide an absolute limit to the ability of the mouse to respond to changes in diet demonstrating both the impor- tance of the microbiota to the host response to diet and the absence of a hidden ''reservoir'' of diversity available to re-emerge upon dietary change alone.

mice previously but transiently exposed to a hfd exhibited an enhanced response to a later exposure to this same diet gaining weight more rapidly and in some cases to a greater extent with this hfd ''booster'' effect.cell host  microbe 21 february 8 2017 a 2017 elsevier inc. 123cell host  microbepreviewsfigure 1. microbial ''roommates'' determine the response to dietary intervention of mice colonized with the less-diverse american diet microbiota show that the microbiota of two groups of patients with distinct dietary patterns american and calorie restricted have divergent compositions.

when amer reconstituted mice were co-housed with mice reconsti- tuted with cron donor microbiota however they responded to cron diet feeding by radically shifting toward a more ''cron-like'' microbiota as demonstrated by a novel parameter community indicator value civ devel- oped in this study.

in addition to the difference in overall microbial diversitymembers of the two groups harbored particular bacterial species that were specific to their dietary practice as deter- mined by indicator species and phi- coefficient analyses.to further understand the effect of these dietary practices on the micro- biome then trans- planted fecal microbiota from representa- tives of each group into germ-free mice that were then fed either reconstructed amer or reconstructed cron diets ad li- bitum or in a calorie-restricted manner.

the effect of diet on the composition and metabolic activities of the microbiota is critically influenced by the underly- ing microbiota structure which itself is dependent on earlier environmental expo- sures including dietary influences.

these observed differences in microbiota with the different dietary expo- sures are similar to other studies in both humans and mice  .

how do the co- housed cron mice enable amer mice to respond to the cron diet the most straightforward explanation is that the co-housed cron mice simply com- plement individual microbes lost by long-term amer exposure.

regardless of the source of the donor microbiota there was a convergence of the microbial structure among mice on an amer diet whether calorie restricted or not.

in contrast mice reconstituted with amer donor microbiota exhibited less of an effect of exposure to the cron diet .

when transferred into mice these microbiotas remain distinct and the am diet microbiota is not substantially rescued by feeding a calorie-restricted cr diet.

perhaps these co-housed mice provide exposure to a more diverse microbial ecosystem that allows for re-emergence of ''lost'' microbes that remained at low levels but dormant or suppressed in the amer microbiota.

in addition to the change in relative proportions of fats carbohydrates and proteins the amer diet included greater than 40 more animal protein than the cron diet a dif- ference that has been known to alter mi- crobiome composition through a variety of mechanisms.a recent report by thaiss and col- leagues provides further support for the preeminent importance of dietary composition on microbiota structure and function .

by sequential cycles of forced enteral over- feeding and restriction.together these two studies suggest that while calorie restriction and excess may influence microbiota community structure dietary composition remains the greater determinant.

interpersonal bacterial transmis- sion could provide protection against negative environmental effects--dietary and otherwise--on the microbiota.

cron recipient mice had higher hepatic concentrations of leucine andlactate than amer controls but giving the amer mice cron ''roommates'' increased the level of these metabolites to those of cron mice.chronic calorie restriction is known to have wide-reaching implications on host physiology with a particularly prominent lifespan-lengthening effect  .

