in the short-lived african turquoise killifish the microbial community of young donors is able to extend life span in older individuals by preventing the decrease in microbial diversity associated with host aging 58... concordantly latest research in c. elegans describes the positive impact of certain bacterial genotypes on host life span and health as non-essential bacterial compounds for example colanic acid are able to regulate mitochondrial dynamics and unfolded protein response uprmt 59...non-senescent model organisms to study the interaction between foxo and microbes while most aging research has been done in short-living models some animals show no aging phenotype and are considered as non-senescent.

due to three everlasting stem cell lineages that give rise to about 20 cell types  the animals are able to continuouslyreproduceasexuallyviabudding a. a single homolog of the longevity gene foxo was found to be expressed in all three stem cell lineages in hydra .

inversely an overex- pression in the interstitial stem cell lineage caused not only an increase in cell proliferation but also expression of stem cell marker genes in terminally differentiated cells .

in the newly discovered world of metaorganisms stem cell proliferation and immunity are part of a global program here proposed as 'eco- aging' which seeks to fuse stem cell biology with eco- logical concepts and the rules governing the interactions between an organism and its microbial environment.conflict of interestwe wish to confirm that there are no conflicts of interest associated with this publication.acknowledgementswe apologize to all colleagues whose work could not be cited due to space limitations.

available online at sciencedirecteco-aging stem cells and microbes are controlled by aging antagonist foxobenedikt m mortzfeld and thomas cg boschthe review highlights the dual role that the conserved master regulator foxo has in aging by coordinating both stem cell proliferation and antimicrobial peptides effector molecules of the innate immune system.

foxo's capacity in other model organisms drosoph- ila  c. elegans  to delay the onset of age-related processes and to extend life span underlines its conserved potential in stem cell control and tissue maintenance especially in the absence of classical stem cell factors like oct-34 or sox2 .

recent research also underlines the importance of bacterial colonization on host behavior  as well as fundamental develop- mental processes involving cell proliferation and immune system maturation 44..interestingly the human microbiome is not stable throughout life but experiences significant changes with age.

in zebrafish larvae they found that a single protein produced by bacteria can promote b cell proliferation in early development.49... pilot study aiming to rescue the effect of randomly acquired bacterial colonization in infants born via cesarean section.

here certain bacterial taxa could predict the coral host response bleaching in a heat stress experiment 86.. underlining the importance of the microbiome a study with germ-free animals showed that hydra is protected from fungal infections by its bacterial colonizers.

biorxiv 2017 .colonization of mid-aged fish with a bacterial composition associatedwith younger individuals can delay the ageing process and is causally linked to life span extension.59... screening of 3983 escherichia coli mutants uncovered 29 bacterial genes that increase longevity in c. elegans.

the integration of research from stem cell biology microbiology and ecology into aging concepts eco-aging acknowledges the multi-organismic nature of all living beings and presents a new conceptual framework for explaining the process of aging.addresschristian-albrechts-university kiel zoological institute olshausenstrasse 40 24098 kiel germanycorresponding author bosch thomas cg the signature of agingthe dream of living a long and healthy life is as old as humanity itself.

epithelial foxo deficiency for the latter resulted in a significant increase of differentiated cells mass in relation to the stem cell compartment which resembles the aging phenotype in senescent animals.

binding of foxo to conserved regulatory genomic regions can modulate the expression of stem cell and immune genes amps and thus has a crucial impact on the aging process.

interestingly a recent study indicates that foxo signaling may also be involved in the estab- lishment of symbiosis in the early developmental phase of the sea anemone aiptasia .taken together the conserved transcription factor foxo appears to combine two functions crucially involved in aging and health in metazoans b foxo is responsible for stem cell regulation including tissue maintenance and renewal and controls the innate im- mune system.

the capabilities of the foxo transcription factor to extend life span and control effectors of the immune system demonstrate a strong and unique mechanism of cross-regulation of tissue homeo- stasis and innate immunity.conclusionsstem cell maintenance and immunity are two of the prominent areas in aging research.

