Moreover new culture methods are now available  to allow us for the first time to culture commensal gut microflora making it feasible to do manipulative experimental microbial biology in vertebrates.How has co-evolution with microbes shaped immune defense andhow readily can the immune system adjust to rapidly modified microbe communities Whilst germ free models have greatly helped shape our proximate understanding of immune function it is now important to consider ecologically relevant settings in order to understand how evolution has shaped the immune system of birds.

Martin-Vivaldi M. Martin-Platero A.M. Martinez-Bueno M. Onate M. Ruiz-Rodriguez M. Soler J.J. 2012.

These proteins are constitutively secreted by the liver and the epithelia and their nutritional costs relative to their protective ben- efits are low in healthy birds  but increase markedly during the acute phase of the immune response to an invasive pathogen .The acute phase of the immune response is a key immune defence mechanism in vertebrates.

0018-506Xc 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.Introduction microbial ecology immune defense and co- evolutionEver since birds first appeared in the Mesozoic era   they have coexisted with microbes potentially coevolving with avian ontogeny behavior physiology and immune function.

We will consider microbial risk focusing on the risk of acquiring a pathogenic microbe or microbial infection at different life stages and for different life histories of birds.Immune defenseIn adult birds an integrated immune defence is used to control microbes although age-related immune development is largely unquantified outside of the chicken .Passive antimicrobial molecules such as lysozyme complement and antimicrobial peptides act on features of microbes to lyse their cell walls .

found eggshell bacteria load was inversely related to innate immune function of adults and suggested that innate immune function evolves to alter the probability of vertical transmission of bacteria.Much of the research assessing the vulnerability of eggs to bacterial infection is focused on commercial production within the poultry indus- try .

Males with many mating opportunities to lose due to sickness may utilize a combination of tolerance and rapid innate immune strategies  while those employing monogamous mating strategies may utilize immune strategies best suited to the local disease environment or other life history considerations.

We hypothesize that the usual immune strategies may be modified to reduce protein expenditures such as an acute phase re- sponse employing febrile response without as much dependency on acute phase proteins or phagocytosis of pathogens but with lower carryover into the specific antibody production phase of immune response.

Cordoba-Cordoba S. Spoelstra K. Wikelski M. Hau M. 2010.

.Mignon-Grasteau S. Narcy A. Rideau N. Chantry-Darmon C. Boscher M. Sellier N. Chabault M. Konsak-Ilievski B.

