doi10.1128microbiolspec.BAD-0006-2016.Ecological therapeutic opportunities for oral diseasesAnilei Hoare1 Philip D. Marsh2 and Patricia I. Diaz11Division of Periodontology Department of Oral Health and Diagnostic Sciences UConn Health Farmington CT USA2Division of Oral Biology School of Dentistry University of Leeds Leeds UKSUMMARYThe three main oral diseases of humans that is caries periodontal diseases and oral candidiasis are associated with microbiome shifts initiated by changes in the oral environment andor decreased effectiveness of mucosal immune surveillance.

Any microbial-based therapeutics for oral conditions however are likely to be only one component within a holistic preventive strategy that should also aim at modification of the environmental influences responsible for the initiation and perpetuation of microbiome shifts associated with oral dysbiosis.INTRODUCTIONThe oral microbiome is formed by hundreds of microbial species including bacteria fungi archaea and viruses which coexist in specific and organized arrangements in the different habitats of the oral cavity 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8.

We conclude with a perspective on what we believe are key points regarding the etiology of oral diseases that need to be taken into account when developing microbial-based therapeutics for oral conditions.Hoare et al.Page 2Ecological factors mediating the assembly of oral communitiesThe oral cavity sub-habitats are colonized by uniquely adapted microbial communities.

Anaerobic bacteria also are found in greater proportions in the tongue crypts which serve as an anaerobic pocket-like reservoir for microbes 72.Ecological aspects of oral disease etiologyThe three main oral diseases that is caries periodontal diseases and oral candidiasis are associated with dysbiosis of the resident oral microbiome.

PubMed 23967169Huang S Li R Zeng X He T Zhao H Chang A Bo C Chen J Yang F Knight R Liu J Davis C Xu J. Predictive modeling of gingivitis severity and susceptibility via oral microbiota.

Other strategies such as whole oral microbiome transplantation or modification of community function by enrichment with health- promoting indigenous oral strains may offer more promise but research in this field is still in its infancy.

Moreover the microbial composition of these communities is critical to oral health with the main oral diseases characterized by deleterious alterations in microbiome community structure at specific sub-habitats 13 14.As in other human mucosal compartments an understanding of the composition of health and disease-associated communities together with the development of treatments to attempt the restoration of healthy communities in diseased individuals has been the subject of increasing research.

Microbial successions and inter-species interactions also shape the development of oral communities.Two different types of surfaces hard and soft are available for colonization in the oral cavity.

Antimicrobial peptides of the b-defensin family hBDs are found in various locations of the oral cavity such as oral mucosa gingiva tongue epithelium and salivary glands 53.

Saliva seems to be a key element in the control of Candida overgrowth since it has components such as soluble IgA and mucins that bind and clear the fungi from the oral cavity as well as histatin 5 and calprotectin that have potent antifungal activities 114.Contrary to other mucosal compartments no clear relationship between the disruption of the bacterial component of the oral microbiome by the use of antibiotics and the overgrowth of Candida spp.

