utriculariae by using fluorescently labeled bacteria as prey surrogates iii to examine bacterial turnover rates related to ciliate bacterivory with the ciliate being the only bacterivore detected in traps iv to estimate how mixotrophy contributes to the diet and survival strategy of the ciliate in this specific environment and v to compare bacterivory rates of algae-bearing ciliates with rates deter- mined for aposymbiotic ciliates of the same species adapted to high bacterial food concentrations.materials and methodsexperimental plant cultivation and trap fluid collectionthe rootless aquatic carnivorous plant u. reflexa oliv.

2009from the surrounding environment is engulfed by the trap it is unable to escape until the trap walls are damaged or trap senesces and ceases to perform its function.

triplicate subsamples of 200 ll of the pooled trap fluid were used for protistan grazing experiments and 300 ll of the sample were immediately preserved for further analysis of microbial components living in the fluid as detailed below.quantification of microbes in trap fluid--general approachthe trap fluid is an environment with extremely high con- centrations of doc sirov'a et al.

2011. in addition decaying remains of trapped prey organismstable 1. physico-chemical properties of the environment insideutricularia trap lumen compiled from published literature properties of the utricularia trap environmentphspecies specific in the range of4.2-7.2 usually 5.1 sirov'a et al.

thus there are only two possible fates for the trapped organ- isms--they are either digested or due to their ecological potential they adapt to this specific environment and become commensals during the trap's life span.in accordance with the latter possibility there is increas- ing evidence that some specialized prokaryotes and pro- tists form a peculiar trap microbiome alcaraz et al.

2012. such extreme environmental conditions may yield specific microbial food webs dominated by otherwise rare and exotic taxa of protists capable of exploiting the special environment.utricularia trap lumen is an environment completely sealed from the outside except for short periods lasting only a few milliseconds when the trap fires and aspi- rates filling about 40 of its volume with the surrounding water.

in addition to trap fluid triplicate samples of the u. reflexa cultivation water were processed as outlined above.enumeration and sizing of protists via epifluorescence microscopytriplicate samples of the trap fluid 200 ll were pre- served with the lugol-formol-thiosulfate decolorization technique sherr and sherr 1993 diluted 110 with parti- cle-free water stained with dapi and filtered onto black 1-lm pore-size filters osmonic inc.. for the quantifica- tion of the eukaryotic community we focused on the three most prominent in terms of numbers and biomass and easily distinguishable species of protists the ciliateutriculariae pitsch et al.

pho- tographs were taken with a canon eos 1000. besides analyses of trap fluid sampled from u. reflexa we also made in-vivo observations of the occurrence of t. utricu- lariae in the trap lumen of the following seven utricularia species u. australis u. bremii u. aurea u. inflatapurpurea u. stygia and u. vulgaris.

5. likely due to the harsh physico-chemical environment in the trap lumen table 1 and references therein the commensal mixotrophic ciliates were clearly the dominatingcomponents of the biomass of the trap communities far exceeding even that of bacteria fig.

2a b indicate that these microbes likely actively grow in the traps as we did not observe these morphotypes in the surrounding water except for a few unidentified individuals of the genus scenedesmus data not shown.the core microbial interactions in the trap fluid ofutricularia reflexabased on new findings reported in this study and literature data table 1 we propose a schematic depiction of the core microbial interactions in the trap fluid of u. reflexa fig.

2009 2011. thus bacteria are likely responsible for rapid nutrient recycling in the trap fluid.our proposed scheme attributes a central role in the trap microbiome dynamics to the bulk bacterivory of mixo- trophic ciliates responsible for the rapid consummation of bacterial biomass and thus recycling limiting nutrients that would otherwise be sequestered in this biomass sherr and sherr 1988 sterner and elser 2002. imbalance in bacterial growth and loss rates can represent a bottleneck in microbial nutrient regeneration and the overall nutrient acquisition by the plant.

iii vital traps do not release their particulate contents with engulfed cells and perform approximately 3-4 feeding events per day.iv each trap is able to suck in 40 of its volume during the feeding event thus significantly diluting the inner trap fluid sirov'a et al.

2011. the traps of u. re- flexa were dominated by only a few prominent and relatively large species which are commensals clearly cap- able of growth in the trap fluid as population densities increase with trap age.

institute of hydrobiology na s'adk'ach 7cveske' budevjovice 370 05 czech republicb faculty of science university of south bohemia branivsovsk'a 31 cveske' budevjovice 370 05 czech republicc limnological station department of plant and microbial biology university of zurich kilchberg 8802 switzerland d institute of botany cas section of plant ecology tvrebonv 379 82 czech republickeywordsaquatic utricularia bacterial turnover rate ciliate bacterivory and mixotrophy microbial interactions trap fluid.correspondencek.

ciliate counts were four orders of magnitude lower than those in the trap fluid i.e.4.7 1.4 cells per ml cf.

