increas- ing studies have expanded our understanding of the role of mirnas in the response to both bacterial pathogens and com- mensal bacteria in host cells 37. some mirnas including mir- 146 mir-155 and mir-21 are considered as an effector through which commensal bacteria impact the regulation of intestinal homeostasis 21 38. mir-21 has been reported to be induced in response to lps stimulation in many cell types including macrophages peripheral blood mononuclear cells and mouse embryonic fibroblasts 21 39 40. mir-21 is sug- gested to be an indicator of inflammation 21. here we find that induction of mir-21 by lps inhibits gingival mscs prolifera- tion.

abbreviations con control mimic edu 5-ethynyl-20-deoxyuridine i-con control inhibitor i-mir-21 mir-21 inhibitor lps lipopolysac- charide mir-21 mir-21 mimic tert telomerase reverse transcriptase wt wild-type.lps inhibits gingival mscs proliferation and decreases tert expression via mir-21recent studies pointed to the significant role of mir-21 as regu- latory signals for maintaining the stemness and for determiningthe fate of mscs 17-19. moreover emerging evidence indi- cates that mir-21 regulate lps-induced inflammatory response 20 21. we first found that mir-21 was expressed at higher level in gingival mscs from antibiotics-treated mice comparedfigure 6. mir-21-mediated-tert downregulation is regulated by sp1.

it has been confirmed that sp1 is a direct target of mir-21 in human smooth muscle cells and hek293 cell lines 47 48. these findings collectively suggest that sp1 may be a candidate target gene of mir-21 in mouse cells.

a mir-21 was expressed at higher level in gingival mscs from antibiotics-treated mice compared with those from control mice  p  .01. b real time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction showed that when stimulated with lps the expression of mir-21 was dramatically increased  p  .01. c gingival mscs from mir-21 knockout mir-2122 mice exhibited higher proliferative potential than those from wt mice  p  .01. d edu assay revealed that overexpression of mir-21 significantly inhibited cell proliferation whereas mir- 21 inhibition enhanced cell proliferation  p  .01. e the expression of tert was increased in gingival mscs from mir-2122 mice compared with those from wt mice.

the characteristics include expression of msc surface markers colony- forming ability self-renew and multilineage differentiation capacity 11-13. compared with mscs derived from other dental tissues gingival mscs exhibit a higher proliferative ability and can be easily expanded ex vivo 11 12 therefore these cells might serve as a unique source of stem cells for regenerativestem cells 201836551-561 vc alphamed press 2017medicine.

previous studies have found the role of lps in gingiva derived cells proliferation however conflicting conclusions have been addressed 33-36. this is correlated with the concentration of lps that is lps at high concentra- tions usually 210 lgml generally results in reduced cell proliferation capacity however lps at low concentration usu- ally 10 lgml induces enhanced cell proliferation 32-36. these data suggest that low concentration of lps is necessary to maintain cells viability whereas high dose of lps exerts toxic effect to cells.

cells from 2nd passage were used in the experiments.western blot analysisgingival tissues and cells were lysed in ripa buffer.

a cfu-f assay revealed that gingival mscs from antibiotics-treated mice formed fewer single-colony clusters than control cell  p  .05. b edu assay showed gingival mscs from antibiotics-treated mice had a lower percentage of edu positive cells when com- pared with those from control mice  p  .05. c cfse analysis verified that gingival mscs from antibiotics-treated mice had decreased proliferation index compared to cells from control mice  p  .05. d e apoptosis assay d and in vitro wound healing assay e indicated there was no significant difference in apoptotic rate and migration ability between gingival mscs from the two groups.

role of whole bone marrow whole bone marrow cultured cells and mesenchy- mal stem cells in chronic wound healing.

c edu assay showed pg-lps inhibited cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner  p  .05  p  .01. d e real time reverse transcriptase- polymerase chain reaction d and western blot e showed that the expression of tert mrna and protein were decreased in response to lps stimulation  p  .05  p  .01. abbreviations edu 5-ethynyl-20-deoxyuridine gapdh glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydro- genase lps lipopolysaccharide tert telomerase reverse transcriptase.figure 5. lps inhibits gingival mesenchymal stem cells mscs proliferation and decreases tert expression via mir-21.

f mir-21 mimic inhibited sp1 expression whereas mir-21 inhibitor could reverse this effect.

h mir-21 mimic inhibited sp1 whereas mir-21 inhibitor could reverse this effect.

gingival mscs derived from antibiot- ics treated mice showed significantly decreased sp1 binding on these sites  p  .005. abbreviations edu 5-ethynyl-20-deoxyuridine gapdh glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase lps lipopolysaccharide mir-21 mir-21 mimic qpcr quantitative polymerase chain reaction sirna small interfering rna tert telomerase reverse transcriptase wt wild-type.with those from control mice fig.

to further strengthen the conclu- sion that overexpression of mir-21 affects gingival mscs prolif- eration we used mir-21 mimic and inhibitor to transfect into gingival mscs derived from mice treated without or without antibiotics respectively.

edu assay revealed that overexpression of mir-21 significantly inhibited cell proliferation in gingival mscs from control mice whereas mir-21 inhibition enhanced cell proliferation in gingival mscs from antibiotics-treated mice fig.

