five out of 48 10 harboured fq-re cipro- floxacin mic .4 mgl before treatment all e. faecium 6 on d7 3 e. faecium and 3 e. faecalis 8 on d14 4 e. faecium and 4 e. faecalis and 10 21 on d42 9 e. faecium and 1 e. faecalis.

for e. faecalis fluoroquinolone- resistant strains were significantly more likely to harbour high-level resistance to gentamicin from 10 in fluoroquinolone- susceptible e. faecalis to 64 in fluoroquinolone-resistant e. faecalis p  0.01. for e. faecium significantly more fluoroquinolone- resistant strains were resistant to ampicillin p  0.01. vancomycin resistance which is very rare in france was not found in any isolate.origin of fq-reall resistant enterococci collected during or after ciprofloxacin therapy were compared with susceptible isolates belonging to the same species and collected from the same patient at d0.

as compared with fluoroquinolone-susceptible strains fluoroquinolone-resistant e. faecium were more frequently ampicillin resistant and fluoroquinolone-resistant e. faecalis were more highly resistant to gentamicin.conclusions although intrinsically poorly susceptible to fluoroquinolones gut populations of enterococci are highly impacted both quantitatively and qualitatively by ciprofloxacin.introductionenterococci mainly enterococcus faecalis and enterococcus fae- cium have become major opportunistic pathogens in human medicine as they are responsible for numerous infections includ- ing urinary tract and intra-abdominal infections bacteraemia and endocarditis.

additionally e. fae- cium and e. faecalis appeared to behave very differently mechanis- tically all 14 e. faecalis isolates were highly resistant to fluoroquinolones in association with gyraparc double mutations whereas almost all 3435 97 e. faecium exhibited low-level fluoroquinolone resistance with no mutations in gyra and parc qrdrs.

faecalis ciprofloxacin resistant n 14p  0.05high-level resistance to gentamicinfigure 5. proportion of co-resistances to ampicillin and gentamicin high-level resistance found in e. faecalis and e. faecium strains according to their fluoroquinolone resistance profiles.large group of 48 healthy volunteers who had not received previ- ous antibiotic treatments and the results are straightforward the quantitative effect of ciprofloxacin that decreases the counts of enterococci in the gut is temporary as they return to normal after the end of treatment however the qualitative impact is persistent with a loss of species diversity the consequences of which are un- known.

we found that 3435 fluoroquinolone- resistant e. faecium did not carry qrdr chromosomal mutations but rather overexpressed the chromosome-encoded efmqnr gene likely responsible for the low-level resistance phenotype.concerning e. faecalis no subject carried fluoroquinolone- resistant e. faecalis before treatment but high-level fluoroquino- lone resistance emerged in seven subjects during treatment.

total counts were reduced during ciprofloxacin therapy 4.0 and 3.9 log cfug on d7 and d14 versus 5.9 log cfug before and 6.9 log cfug after treatment p  0.05. twenty-one out of 48 44 carried fq-re among them 2121 carried enterococcus faecium 19 carried enterococcus faecalis and 11 carried other species.

all 1414 distinct fluoroquinolone- resistant e. faecalis clones were gyraparc double mutants with high-level resistance ciprofloxacin mic.64 mgl.

transcript levels of efmqnr e. faecium and efsqnr e. faecalis were determined in the presence or ab- sence of ciprofloxacin at subinhibitory concentrations i.e.

18 mic by the dd ct method using adk e. faecium or 23s rrna e. faecalis as house- keeping control genes.

faecalis and 11 carried other species.

because of similar phenotypes 246 isolates were compared by rapd-pcr 81 e. faecalis including 71 87 fq-re and 165 e. faecium including 88 53 fq-re.

this allowed us to differentiate 14 distinct fluoroquinolone-resistant e. faecalis strains which were all gyraparc double mutants with elevated ciprofloxacin mics .64 mgl and 35 distinct fluoroquinolone- resistant e. faecium 1 gyraparc double mutant with a high ciprofloxacin mic .128 mgl and 34 low-level resistant strains ciprofloxacin mics between 4 and 32 mgl with no mutations in gyra and parc qrdrs.

additionally no involvement of active efflux was evidenced with the limit that some efflux pumps poorly or not inhibited by reserpine have been described especially in e. fae- calis data not shown.however among the fluoroquinolone- resistant strains changes in the transcript levels of efmqnr e. fae- cium were significantly higher than those of efsqnr e. faecalis in the presence of ciprofloxacin at subinhibitory concentrations figure  which could explain the observed low-level resistance in the fluoroquinolone-resistant e. faecium strains.108642d0d7d14d42 mean sd5.9 1.94 1.93.9 1.8 6.9 1.5ns non-significantdynamics of the emergence of fq-rethe dynamics of the emergence of fq-re by subject and collection day are summarized in figure .

in all 21 subjects only one species of fq-re was evidenced at any given timepoint either e. faecium in 1421 or e. faecalis in 721. yet up to five genetically distinct fq-re strains all belonging to the same species were evidenced in the faeces of these patients median  1.5 distinct strains ranging from 1 to 5.on d0 five subjects carried fluoroquinolone-resistant e. faeciumfigure 1. densities of enterococcal species in the stools amongst the21 healthy volunteers in log cfug of stools by day of collection.

