these results indicate that bacterial species that constitute a small fraction of the oral microbiota can expand and colonize the gut and a subset of these oral species can induce the accumulation of intestinal th1 cells.to isolate th1 cell-inducing bacteria we an- aerobically cultured cecal contents from gfcd2 mice using several culture media and picked 224 colonies with different colony appearances.

therefore the effect of kp-2h7 on th1 induction appears to be a gut-specific response.to investigate the mechanism of kp-2h7- mediated th1 cell induction we orally adminis-tered heat-killed kp-2h7 to gf wt b6 mice in drinking water for 3 weeks.

these results suggest that a feedforward loop involving ifn-g and ifis was created among ecs dcs and t cells for sustained accumulation of th1 cells.to confirm the link between oral-derived bacte- ria and th1 cell induction we obtained additional saliva samples from two healthy donors he1 and he2 and two patients with active uc uc1 and uc2 and orally administered these samplesevidence of adhesion or invasion of bacteria on or into the epithelial layer fig.

these genes have been reported tobe enriched in the fecal microbiome of patients with inflammatory diseases and have been suggested to have immunomodulatory effects and they there- by may contribute to the induction of th1 cells 8 14 17-19.mice deficient in basic leucine zipper tran- scription factor atf-like 3 batf3-- which lack the intestinal cd11b-cd103 dendritic cell dc subset failed to mount a colonic th1 cell response fig.

s12 b and c. therefore distinct mechanisms may drive th1 cell induction by different klebsiella strains.somewhat unexpectedly the microbiota sample from one healthy donor he1 also induced a sub- stantial increase in th1 cells fig.

microbiotaectopic colonization of oral bacteria in the intestine drives th1 cell induction and inflammationkoji atarashi12 wataru suda134 chengwei luo56 takaaki kawaguchi12 iori motoo2 seiko narushima2 yuya kiguchi3 keiko yasuma1 eiichiro watanabe2takeshi tanoue12 christoph a. thaiss7 mayuko sato8 kiminori toyooka8 heba s. said49 hirokazu yamagami10 scott a. rice11 dirk gevers5ryan c. johnson12 julia a. segre12 kong chen13 jay k. kolls13 eran elinav7 hidetoshi morita14 ramnik j. xavier56 masahira hattori34 kenya honda12intestinal colonization by bacteria of oral origin has been correlated with several negative health outcomes including inflammatory bowel disease.

isolated from the salivary microbiota are strong inducers of t helper 1 th1 cells when they colonize in the gut.

to examine whether these isolated strains had th1 cell-inducing capability we cultured all eight of them and intro- duced them as a mixture 8-mix into gf mice.

we observed efficient induction of th1 cells in the colonic lp of these mice with a magnitude comparable to that observed in gfcd2 mice compare fig.

in contrast in the group that received a saliva sample from cd patient 2 gfcd2 mice we noticed a marked accumu- lation of interferon-g ifn-g cd4 t cells t helper1 th1 cells in the intestinal lp fig.

importantly most of the bacterial species observed in the fecal micro-tively however this resulted in only marginal elevation of th1 cell frequency fig.

oral administra- tion of kp-2h7 alone significantly induced th1 cells whereas a mixture of the remaining seven strains 7-mix failed to do so fig.

1d indicating that the kp-2h7 strain was the major contributor to the accumulation of th1 cells observed in gfcd2 mice.

the effect of kp-2h7 was relatively specific for th1 cells fig.

s1c reflect- ing greater th1 cell induction in the colon than in the small intestine fig.

