one host benefit that is certain to be of particular interest to clini- cians is the impact of the microbiota in pre- venting invasion by exogenous pathogens.the study published by van der veer et al  in this issue of clinical infectious diseases investigates the potential associ- ation between a woman's cervicovaginal microbiota cvm and her likelihood of acquiring genital infection after exposurereceived 30 august 2016 accepted 2 september 2016. correspondence d. b. digiulio division of infectious dis-eases and geographic medicine 300 pasteur dr rm l134 mail code 5107 stanford university school of medicine stan- ford ca 94305-5107 clinical infectious diseasesr 201764132-3c the author 2016. published by oxford university press for the infectious diseases society of america.

concordant with previously de- scribed community state types csts in the vagina  each cluster was distin- guished by its predominant bacterial con- stituents 1 diverse anaerobic bacteria n  39 42 2 lactobacillus iners n  32 34 or 3 lactobacillus crispatus n  22 24. based on multivariate anal- ysis they found c. trachomatis infection to be significantly associated with a cvm predominated by either diverse anaerobes odds ratio or 4.2 95 confidence interval 1.2-15.4 or l. iners or 4.4 1.3-15.6 in a comparison with women who had l. crispatus-dominated cvms.that the findings of van de veer and colleagues implicate both a diverse com- munity of anaerobic species as well as anl.

clinical infectious diseases edit oria l c omment ar ythe cervicovaginal microbiota and infection risk after exposure to an exogenous pathogendaniel b. digiuliodepartment of medicine division of infectious diseases and geographic medicine stanford university school of medicine and veterans affairs palo alto health care system californiasee the major article by van der veer et al on pages 24-31.keywords.

science 2012 3361255-62.van der veer c bruisten sm van der helm jj de vries hjc van houdt r. the cervico-vaginal mi- crobiota in women notified for chlamydia tracho- matis infection a case-control study at the sti outpatient clinic in amsterdam the netherlands.

however the veracity of this infer- ence is limited because their study design relied on a single sampling time point.32  cid 201764 1 january  editorial commentarythus their methods are unable to resolve unambiguously whether the cvm state identified at the time of contact tracing ac- curately represents the cvm state that ex- isted before exposure to c. trachomatis.

high abundance of l. iners in the vagina is associated with dysbiosis which is opposite the relationship ob- served with l. crispatus .furthermore the ecological interaction between specific lactobacilli and genital pathogens seems to be one of competitive exclusion this relationship is generally not observed between l. iners and those same pathogens.

this is especially relevant when investigating conditions such as microbial community states for which koch's postu-lates are not readily applicable .in addition evaluating temporal asso- ciations is important to exclude the possibility that an observed association is not a spurious finding that simply rep- resents an epiphenomenon that is that an as-yet-unidentified causal factor--forexample a change in immune system function due to up- or down-regulation of specific host genes--might simultane- ously influence both the risk for acquisi- tion of c. trachomatis and the likelihood of a particular vaginal cst.

other mechanisms by which some lactobacilli prevent pathogen invasion but which evidence suggests are not equally shared by all lactobacillus species are the production of antimicrobial molecules including hydrogen peroxide acetic acid bacterio- cins and biosurfactants and by immuno- modulation via host cell production of both proinflammatory and anti-inflam- matory cytokines .like all studies the one by van der veer and colleagues  has limitations.

the au- thors interpret their data to indicate that a preexisting cvm state affects subsequent risk for acquisition of c. trachomatis infec- tion.

studies such as the one by van der veer and colleagues  which might help inform the types of species or strains that hold the greatest promise for promoting or maintaining states of health are small but important stepping stones toward that goal.notepotential conflict of interest.

iners  reduce the adherence of gardnerella vaginalis and c. trachomatis to epithelial cells .

the diverse commu- nity described by the investigators is structurally concordant with a type iv cst  and is compositionally similar to that observed in bacterial vaginosis a dysbiosis linked to an increased risk for invasion by diverse pathogens including human immunodeficiency virus herpes simplex virus type 2 c. trachomatisneisseria gonorrhoeae and trichimonas vaginalis .

clin infect dis 2017 6424-31.ravel j gajer p abdo z et al.

j infect dis 2010 202 1907-15.santiago gl tency i verstraelen h et al.

sci transl med 2012 4132ra52.ravel j brotman rm gajer p et al.

