in gart a significant decrease in s. mutans count was observed from w0 to w5 that is after educational strategy after 1 month of art w9 w10 s. mutans count was not different than baseline w0.the intergroup comparison showed that total bacteria count was significantly higher in gc than gart only in w8w9 mann-whitney test u  222.000 p  .001 s. mutans count was significantly higher in gart than gc only in w5 t test p  .005 power  0.77.table 4 shows the percentage of s. mutans in relation to total bac- teria quantified in the three collections.

therefore a total of 72 schoolchildren wereselected to comprise two paired groups after the evaluation of inclu- sion and exclusion criteria caries-free children dmftdmft  0 were allocated in the control group gc n  36 and submitted to ohes the other group of children with at least one decayed primary molar in dentin without painful symptoms mobility andor abscess was sub- mitted to ohes and further art restoration gart n  36 as detailed in figure 1.for ethical reasons it was not possible to consider a group of no intervention or a group in which only art restoration was performed.

although s. mutans count of gart did not differ from gc at baseline the percentages of s. mutans in relation to total bacteria were significantly higher in gart than gc in the sub- sequent collections.4  discussion the present results showed that preventive measures such as oral health strategy could improve some clinical and salivary parameters ph buffering capacity calcium and phosphorus concentrations related to caries risk even before art restoration was delivered.

these behaviors once es- tablished may persist throughout adulthood.5  conclusions the findings showed a significant impact of educational strategies on salivary parameters related to caries risk in both groups of children even before art restoration was delivered in the caries group.

for s. mutans standard curve was constructed using ge- nomic dna of the laboratory strain s. mutans ua159 atcc 700610 while for total bacteria a dna extracted from a saliva sample was se- lected arbitrarily klein scott-anne gregoire rosalen  koo 2012. to determine the number of s. mutans and total bacteria cells in the original sample the numbers of cells detected in the qpcr runs were multiplied by the dilution factor from the dna dilution step.

oral health  preventive dentistry 8 125-132.de campos m. m. kobayashi f. y. barbosa tde s. costa sda s. lucas bde l.  castelo p. m. 2014. characteristics of salivary secretion in normal-weight overweight and obese children a preliminary study salivary composition and excessive fat tissue.

2010 examined s. mutans counts in saliva of children submitted to art while klock and krasse 1978 evaluated the effect of caries- preventive program on salivary ph and buffer capacity.

sessionfourth week w4 explanations regarding the use of art indications and stages.the sessions were performed for groups of approximately 10 children considering that controls and children with tooth decay par- ticipated in separate groups based on active learning methodology interaction and reinforcement.

in the study of carvalho and bezerra 2003 a significant reduction in s. mutans was observed although the children who received art restoration were also receiving the preventive strategy at the same time making it difficult to deter- mine the effect of each intervention.

a decrease in total bacteria and s. mutans counts was also observed although with a trend to increase the proportion ofmutans 1 month after art restoration.conflict of interest the authors certify that they have no commercial or associative in- terest that represents a conflict of interest in connection with the manuscript.acknowledgementsthe authors would like to thank the children parents directors and teachers of the public schools for participating in the study.

all authors participated in drafting and re- vising the manuscript they also read and approved the final version.references alaluusua s.  malmivirta r. 1994. early plaque accumulation-a sign for caries risk in young children.

community dentistry and oral epidemiology 225 pt 1 273-276.de amorim r. g. leal s. c. mulder j. creugers n. h.  frencken j. e. 2014. amalgam and art restorations in children a controlled clinical trial.

received 6 april 2017  revised 30 may 2017  accepted 12 june 2017doi 10.1111odi.12706original ar ticle educational strategies and atraumatic restorative treatment effect on salivary characteristics a controlled clinical trialcn freitas1  pm castelo2  kg sousa1  gc alonso3  fla fonseca4  mi klein3  ts barbosa11department of pediatric dentistry faculdade de odontologia de piracicaba universidade estadual de campinas unicamp piracicaba brazil2department of pharmaceutical sciences universidade federal de sao paulo unifesp-campus diadema diadema brazil3department of dental materials and prosthodontics araraquara dental school universidade estadual paulista unesp sao paulo brazil4department of hematology and oncology faculdade de medicina do abc fmabc santo andre brazilcorrespondencepaula midori castelo department of pharmaceutical sciences universidade federal de sao paulo unifesp diadema brazil.email funding informationfundacao de amparo a pesquisa do estado de sao paulo grantaward number 201204492-2 and 201420464-41  introduction tooth decay is a multifactorial disease dependent on the patterns of sugar intake in which the dental biofilm formation is necessary and the exposure to sugar is a determinant factor for the progression of carious lesions on any tooth surface intact or restored fejerskov 2004. after dental eruption streptococcus mutans colonize differ- ent tooth surfaces including caries lesions and fissures baca et al.2002 restorative procedures are thought to reduce biofilm accumu- lation sites resulting in significant reductions in bacterial populations wright cutter dasanayake stiles  caufield 1992. however even when lesions or fissures are filled biofilm can develop on the surface of these materials therefore recent findings have emphasized the need to educate children prior to the age of 12 years in oral health is- sues vadiakas oulis tsinidou mamai-homata  polychronopoulou 2012 including diet thus changing their caries risk.c 2017 john wiley  sons as.

2017231116-1126.in recent decades there has been progress in the prevention of dental caries among children adolescents and adults however dental caries remains a public health concern kassebaum et al.

intragroup comparison showed that calcium concentration increased while phosphorus decreased 1 month after educational strategy or art restoration in gc and gart respectively with a power of the test  0.80. the only exception was the decrease in calcium concentration in unstimulated saliva of caries-free children although within a level comparable with that showed by gart 1 month after art restoration as mentioned above.figures 2a b show the total bacteria quantification of gc and gart respectively in the three collections w0 w5 and w8w9 for gc and w0 w5 and w9w10 for gart.

