the results of xrd showed that although the per- centages of cufes2 were 80.64 75.27 and 74.80 in c cp and cs respectively the mass of residue was the maximum in c group 1.68 g second was in cs group 1.14 g and was the minimum in cp group only 0.81 g. furthermore fes2 was almost not detected in cp and cs group while it still occupied 3.45 in c group.

there was another slowerincrease period of ferric ions concentration in cp and cs groups from day 9 to day 21. the ferrous ions of all groups increased first to 500-600 mgl and then decreased rap- idly however this process ended earlier in cp group on day 6.there are two key points of these results 1 the ph value in cp and cs group had two decreasing period while that in c group had only one 2 the concentration of ferric ions in cp and cs group had two increasing periods while that in c group had only one.analysis variation of microbial community composition and dynamicsto explore the changes of microbial community structure in the solution and on the ore surface in detail we deter- mined time profiles using the real-time pcr as a surrogate of relative abundance.

2 copper extraction efficiencies in c cp and cs groups during bioleaching processabout 13.2. dissimilarly copper extraction efficiencies were similar between c group and cs group before day 9 however it was significantly lower in cs group 29.0 than c group 35.4 on day 12. and all controls of three groups showed no significant change below 10 dur- ing the whole leaching process.

a-c were for c cp and cs groups respectively c chalcopyrite p pyrite s sphalerite j jarositeq quartzcultures copper extraction efficiency of c group reached to 20.9 by day 6 while higher copper extraction was achieved in cp group 34.1 fig.

compared with c group the concentra- tions of ferric ions were higher in both cp and cs group but they increased more quickly in cp group and slowly in cs group than that in c group.

compared with c group additions of pyrite or sphalerite improved the proportion of sulfur in cp and cs groups which indicated that more element sulfur or thiosulfate might be generated in these two groups leading to more protons generation thus ph was lower in cp and cs groups.

external addition of pyrite provided more available energy source iron for microbes while additions of sphalerite decreased the proportion of iron so that com- pared with c group the concentration of ferric ions was higher in cp group and lower in cs group before day 9. there were another increased period of ferric ions concen- tration in cp and cs groups after day 9 and it also might be pyrite decomposition at the final stage.the compositions of microbial communities had close relationships with physical and chemical parameters xiao et al.

in addition all these groups generated much jarosite 14.55 19.25 and 16.46 in c cp and cs groups respectively.effects of pyrite or sphalerite on copper extraction efficiency during chalcopyrite bioleachingthe results of bioleaching experiments indicated that cop- per extraction efficiency showed significant difference between c group and cp group.

for example a. caldus above 60 was the dominant species at the initial stage in three groups and at the middle stage still dominated c group above 70 but it was replaced by l. ferriphilum above 60 in cp and cs groups at the final stage l. ferriphilum domi- nated c group while f. thermophilum dominated cp group on the ore surface.

4 structure and dynamics of microbial community of c cp and cs groups in the solution a and on the ore surface bgradually replaced a. caldus and became the dominant species both in solution and ore surface which was earlier than c group and was one of remarkable effects of pyrite or sphalerite.

for c group the orp increased rapidly from day 6 to day 9 subsequently it fluc- tuated around 675 mv however for cp group the orp increased rapidly from day 3 to day 9 with a decrease of increasing rate in the next 9 days and then fluctuated about 720 mv and for cs group the orp similarly rap- idly increased to c group from day 6 to day 9 but sub- sequently it kept increasing until day 21 and fluctuated around 720 mv.

copper extraction efficiency in chalcopyrite bioleaching c sys- tems with additions of pyrite cp or sphalerite cs.

there were three experimental groups which were chalcopyrite single leaching c added substrate with pyrite cp ww 11 and with sphalerite cs ww 11. in addition three abiotic controls were also run to determine the contribution of chemical leaching in the dissolution of minerals and sodium benzoate 0.1 wtvol was added to avoid microbial pollution.

the ph value was lower in cs than that in c group leading to higher amount of f. thermophi- lum in cs group fig.

however the results of xrd in cp and cs group showed that fes2 was almost little and cufes2 still remain much even zns also remained in cs group.

