indicated that the scavenging activities of chitosan derivatives against hydroxyl radical was derived from 1 hydrogen atom abstraction reaction between the hydroxyl groups in the polysaccharide unit and the hydroxyl radical 2 the residual free amino groups that can react with the hydroxyl radical or3 the nh2 groups can form nh3 then reacting with the hydroxyl radical through addition reaction.figure 1. the antioxidant activity of sodium alginate a1 a2 chitosan c1 c2 c3 and polyelectrolyte complex pec1-pec6 hydrosols determined by free radical scavenging of dpph.

on the other hand lin and chou  noted that disaccharide chitosan derivatives with low disaccharide substitution ds 20-30 exhibited higher dpph radicals superoxide anion radicals and h2o2-scavenging activity than those with higher ds 60-70. according to the authors the more free amino groups present low ds in chitosan derivatives the higher the scavenging effect toward dpph radicals and superoxide anion radicals.

chelation ability of chitosan depends on its molecular weight and degree of polymerization of the glucosamine unit.figure 2. the antioxidant activity of sodium alginate a1 a2 chitosan c1 c2 c3 and polyelectrolyte complex pec1-pec6 hydrosols determined by ferric reducing antioxidant power frap.

three models of antibacterial action of chitosan have been proposed so far 1 interaction between positively-charged chitosanmolecules and negatively-charged microbial cell membranes 2 binding of chitosan with microbial dna and 3 chelation of metals suppression of spore elements and binding to essential nutrients to microbial growth .

since chitosan hydrosol has to be prepared by dissolution of powdered chitosan in lactic acid solution the effect of this acid on antimicrobial properties must be considered.

demonstrated that chitosan nanoparticles exhibited higher antimicrobial activity than chitosan solution due to their small particles and high surface charge .

the aim of this work was to improve the quality of rawcooked meat by coating it with sodium alginate a chitosan c and sodium alginate-chitosan polyelectrolyte complex pec hydrosols.

application of pec on the meat surface resulted in reducing the total number of micro-organisms psychrotrophs and lactic acid bacteria by about 61 and yeast and molds by about 45 compared to control after a two-week storage.keywords meat quality chitosan alginate polyelectrolyte complex coating antimicrobial antioxidant propertiesintroductionthe main cause of sensory functional and nutritional quality deterioration in meat during storage are microbial spoilage and lipidprotein oxidation .

developed chitosan coatings enriched with cinnamon oil to increase the shelf-life of cold-stored trout fillets .

discovered that chitosan coatings were effective in protecting lipids from oxidation when applied to herring and cod fillets .

showed that coating ground beef patties with chitosan reduced tbars thiobarbituric acid reactive substances values and improved the surface red colour of patties compared to non-coated samples .

showed that chitosan can be used to extend the shelf-life of fresh pork sausages due to its antimicrobial and antioxidant properties .

in earlier studies we confirmed the desirability of connecting alginate and chitosan due to the improvement of their thermal and mechanical properties as well as chemical stability .

the sodium alginate-chitosan polyelectrolyte complex is formed by the interaction between the dissociated functional groups an anionic carboxyl group of alginate and cationic amino group of chitosan.

subsequently the obtained hydrogel can be applied directly to the products surface.the aim of this study was to evaluate how sodium alginate chitosan and sodium alginate-chitosan polyelectrolyte complex hydrosols influenced meat quality during 0 7 and 14 days of refrigerated storage in map.

