on the contrary saca beta-fructofuranosidase ec3.3.1.26 malfmaltosemalto- destrin transport system permease msmx msmk maltosemaltodestrine transport system atp-binding protein pyk pyruvate kinase ec2.7.1.40 were higher in con in comparisonbacterial species resulting significantly different in chickens treated with l. acidophilus treated in comparison to the untreated birds control at 41 days.mean relative frequency of abundance  abundance of the kegg pathways in caeca of day 1 chickens day 1 and in ceca of chickens treated with l. acidophilus treated in comparison to the untreated birds control at 41 days.to la .

at the end of the rearing period lachanospiraceae was significantly higher in la birds in comparison to con 17.07 vs 14.39 p  0.036 and the same trend was observed for clostridiaceae 14.30 vs 11.89 p  0.074 .overall among the first 30 bacterial species identified in one-day old chicks the most represented species were lactobacillus johnsonii lactobacillus crispatus escherichia coli rumi- nococcus torques lactobacillus helveticus lactobacillus gasseri ruminococcus obeum rumino- coccaceae bacterium d16 clostrifium hylemonae and eubacterium limosum .

at 41 days the most represented species in con were faecalibacterium prausnitzii lactobacillus crispatus ruminococcus torques subdoligranulum variabile ruminococcaceae bacterium d16 lactobacillus johnsonii pseudoflavonifractor capillosus ruminococcus obeum clostridium diffi- cile and blautia hydrogenotrophica whereas in la they were faecalibacterium prausnitzii lac- tobacillus johnsonii ruminococcus obeum subdoligranulum variabile ruminococcus torques ruminococcaceae bacterium d16 lactobacillus reuteri lactobacillus crispatus blautia hydroge- notrophica and clostrium leptum .

t 41 days the percentage ofmean relative frequency of abundance  abundance of most represented bacterial classes in each of the 14 chickens tested day 1 chicken id 1-4 control 41 days chicken id 5-9 treated 41 days chicken id 10-14.abundance of the top five classes was quite similar among chickens belonging to con and la groups.

in relation to the bacterial species significantly dif- ferent among the tested groups  the relative frequency of abundance of lactobacillus crispatus was significantly higher in one-day old chicks in comparison to la whereas mean relative frequency of abundance  of the 30 most representative species mrs of caecum bacteria in one-day old and 41-day old chickens untreated con and treated with l. acidophilus la.1mrs most represented speciesruminococcus lactaris was significantly higher in one-day old chicks in comparison to con.

indeed it is well documented that the mode of action of lac- tobacillus consists in competitive exclusion against harmful bacteria in the gut in favor ofmean relative frequency of abundance  abundance of the kegg in caeca of day 1 chickens day 1 and in ceca of chickens treated with l. acidophilus treated in comparison to the untreated birds control at 41 days.beneficial microbial populations leading to improvement in nutrients utilization of feed  .

after studying the effect of lactobacillus species supplementation in chickens award et al.attributed the improvement of growth performance of broiler chickens to the greater development of small intestinal villi particularly villus heightcrypt depth ratio in both duode- num and ileum.

oxygen consumption by those bacteria drives the lower gut environment to more reducing conditions facilitating subsequent growth and colonization by extremely oxygen-sensitive obligate anaerobes -.the relative abundance of lactobacillus acidophilus in the caeca of la chickens was compa- rable with that of con group.

however chicken id 12 showed a higher percentage of bacilli abundance and a lower abundance of clostridia in comparison to the other la chickens .in comparison to one-day old chicks lactobacillaceae enterococcaceae and streptococca- ceae decreased significantly in both con i.e.

this result might be explained taking into account the coloniza- tion preference of the administered strain for the crop and the small intestine even if thismean relative frequency of abundance  abundance of the kegg functions showing p  0.05 between chickens treated with l. acidophilus treated in comparison to the untreated birds control at 41 days.specific aspect was not investigated.

an increase of the concentrations of genistein and daidzein in soy milk has been reported by using strains of streptococcus thermophilus l. acidophilus l.mean relative frequency of abundance  abundance of the top 20 kegg functions in each of the 14 chickens tested day 1 chicken id 1-4 control 41 days chicken id 5-9 treated 41 days chicken id 6-10.delbrueckii ssp.

research articleeffect of dietary supplementation with lactobacillus acidophilus d2csl cect 4529 on caecum microbioma and productive performance in broiler chickensalessandra de cesare1 federico sirri1 gerardo manfreda1 paola moniaci1 alberto giardini2 marco zampiga1 adele meluzzi11 department of agricultural and food sciences alma mater studiorum - university of bologna ozzano dell'emilia bologna italy 2 centro sperimentale del latte zelo buon persico lodi italy abstract this study examines the effects of the dietary supplementation with lactobacillus acidophi-lus d2csl cect 4529 la on productive performances incidence of foot pad dermatitisopen accesscitation de cesare a sirri f manfreda g moniaci p giardini a zampiga m et al.

2017 effect of dietary supplementation with lactobacillus acidophilus d2csl cect 4529 on caecum microbioma and productive performance in broiler chickens.

the distribution of the top 20 metabolic functions among the 14 tested chickens showed slight differences only in one-day old chicks .discussionthe administration of probiotic lactobacillus has been demonstrated to stimulate immune responses   and improve digestive health  as well as growth performance - in poultry.

besides the lack of colonization of lactobacillus acidophi- lus in broiler caeca the results of this study suggest that the metabolic activity of supplemented lactobacillus acidophilus positively affects the microbial species producing butyric acid by a cross feeding mechanism.ruminococcus torques was significantly higher in con group in comparison to la at 41 days.

