revieweffects of bariatric surgery on energy homeostasiswei li phd denis richard phd quebec heart and lung institute quebec canadaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 7 february 2017 received in revised form 11 april 2017accepted 4 may 2017keywords biliopancreatic diversion gastrectomyenergy balance melanocortin system gastrointestinal hormonesa b s t r a c t bariatric surgery represents the most efficient therapy for severe obesity.

this short article provides an overview of the effects of bariatric surgery on energy homeostasis.bariatric surgery and obesitythe bariatric surgery procedures that are used to treat severe obesity include gastric banding procedures mainly laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding roux-en-y gastric bypass rygb sleeve gastrectomy sg and biliopancreatic diversion bpd .

apparently bariatric surgery leads to a preferential loss of visceral fat versus subcutaneous fat .the various bariatric procedures have been reported to treat obesity by acting on the 2 inescapable components of the energy balance equation namely energy intake and energy expenditure.

however pair-weighing studies in animals have dem- onstrated that the energy expenditure reduction associated with bariatric surgery was less than that predicted by loss of body weight fat and protein  which suggests that bariatric procedures can stimulate certain metabolic processes in an attempt to sustain energy expenditure.

whereas the effects of bariatric surgery on ghrelin and cholecystokinin are somewhat ambiguous those on the secretion of gut l-cell peptidergic hor- mones glucagon-like peptide 1 glp-1 and peptide tyrosine tyro- sine are rather straightforward  and moreover in line with the effects of bariatric surgery on energy balance.

bariatric surgery could reduce the production of bacteria-derived lipopoly- saccharides which predicts the incidence of diabetes  sug- gesting that the antidiabetic effects of bariatric surgery might be mechanistically linked to and even the result of a reduction in plasma levels of lipopolysaccharides.

the bariatric surgery procedures currently used include roux-en-y gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy which are the most commonly performed procedures.

bariatric surgery reduces energy intake by restricting the size of the stomach reservoir and causing malabsorption as in the case of biliopancreatic diversion.

the present article provides an overview of the literature on the effects of bariatric surgery on energy homeostasis.

accumulated evidence has indicated that the effects of bariatric surgery on energy balance can encompass complex components including effects on the corticolimbic appeti- tive network with modulatory effects exerted through changes in gastrointestinal hormones bile acid production and microbiota composition.

bariatric surgery could also increase energy expenditure which represents like energy intake a key component of the energy balance equation.c 2017 canadian diabetes association.mots cles derivation biliopancreatique gastrectomiebilan energetiquesysteme melanocortinergique hormones gastro-intestinalesr e s u m e la chirurgie bariatrique represente le traitement le plus efficace de l'obesite severe.

part of this research has involved the medical treatment of the condition in particular the effects of bariatric surgery which is recognized as the most efficient treat- ment for severe obesity .

bariatric surgery has also been shown to cure several obesity-related comorbidities including type 2 dia- betes dyslipidemia hypertension and sleep apnea and to improve mental health.

there is growing evi- dence that bariatric surgery influences energy balance regulation in various ways .

it is noteworthy that sg was originally performed as 1 step of another bariatric procedure bpd with duodenal switch ds .

