growth rates thus govern to a certain extent which taxa are abundant members of bacterioplankton and which belong to the so-called rare biosphere pedro's-alio' 2012 kirchman 2016. since bacterioplankton play major roles in ocean biogeochemical processes includ- ing organic matter utilization determining the growth rates of the bulk community as well as that of individual bacterioplankton species or groups is necessary to understand their contribution to energy and matter cycling.bulk bacterial growth rates for the total community represent the average of a wide spectrum of organisms from cells that are almost inactive or dormant to cells growing very rapidly del giorgio and gasol 2008 campbell et al.

the maximal net growth rates corresponded to the gammaproteobacteriavc 2017 society for applied microbiology and john wiley  sons ltd environmental microbiology reports 9 300-309304 o. sa'nchez m. kobl'izek j. m. gasol and i. ferreratable 3. summary of minimal and maximal growth rates day21 for the different bacterioplankton groups investigated in this study and in a previous work at the same location.growth rates of the bacterial groups were estimated based on the slopes of the cell abundance vs. time curves during the exponential growth phase in the first 24 and 36 h for experiments 1 and 2 respectively.data from ferrera et al.

2011 kirchman 2016. bulk bacterial growth rates are in general low ranging between 0.05 and 0.10 day21 in oligotrophic regions of the oceans which corresponds to one division every one or two weeks ducklow 2000. nevertheless maximal growth rates of individual taxa can be much higher equivalent to generation times of a few days or hours teira et al.

dots falling on the 11 line indicate that growth rates are equal under both light regimes if the dots are above or below the line it indicates that growth rates under par are higher or lower than growth rates in the dark respectively k control f predator- reduced p predator-reduced 6 and phosphorus addition.

in a previous study we used manipulation experiments to determine the net and gross growth rates of different bacterioplankton groups at the blanes bay microbial observatory bbmo northwestern medi- terranean and examined the effects that top-down and bottom-up controls play in limiting growth ferrera et al.

thus to determine the role of phosphorous on the growth rates of distinct bac- terial phylogenetic groups further experiments are required.another important environmental factor that can mod-ulate growth is natural sunlight see review by ruiz- gonza'lez et al.

the effect of top-down and bottom-up processes was esti- mated by comparing the growth rates in the filtered andvc 2017 society for applied microbiology and john wiley  sons ltd environmental microbiology reports 9 300-309302 o. sa'nchez m. kobl'izek j. m. gasol and i. ferreratable 1. physicochemical and biological parameters of the initial samples in both experiments.experimentlimitations see ferrera et al.

2011.effect of treatments on bacterial heterotrophic production cell abundance and hna of total prokaryotesbacterial heterotrophic production measured as leucine incorporation rates lir displayed similar changes in both experiments even though some differences weretable 2. average contribution to total bacterial abundance 6 standard deviation of the different bacterioplankton groups represented as percentages of dapi-positive cells in this work and in other studies at the bbmo.for bacterial abundance determination card-fish was performed as described by pernthaler et al.

concerning the net growth rates of the two alphaproteobacterial groups as expected the rhodobacteraceae grew much faster than sar11 hamasaki et al.

however we would have to account for losses associated to viral lysis to obtain actual gross growth rates see ferrera et al.

in particular the alteromonadaceae displayed the highest rates in both experiments growing at up to 4.65 day21 experiment 1 pd and 3.38 day21 experiment 2 pd followed by the rhodobacteraceae which reached maxi- mum values of 3.66 day21 experiment 1 pd and 1.8021rates in light vs. dark treatments to obtain clues on their effect on the growth of different bacterial taxa including those that contain photoheterotrophic members figs 2 and 3. the presence of pr-containing bacteria is expected since sar11 and bacteroidetes were abun- dant in all treatments and both taxa contain a large proportion of photoheterotrophic members see review by pinhassi et al.

noteworthy the altero- monadaceae showed the highest response to filtration and the rhodobacteraceae to p-amendment but the sar11 which presented the lowest growth rates exhib- ited comparable responses to those groups displaying the highest growth rates.in summary we observed that as seen in our previ- ous study ferrera et al.

environmental microbiology reports 2017 93 300-309doi10.11111758-2229.12535effects of grazing phosphorus and light on the growth rates of major bacterioplankton taxa in the coastal nw mediterraneanolga sa'nchez1 michal kobl'izek2 josep m. gasol3 and isabel ferrera31departament de genetica i microbiologia universitat auto'noma de barcelona bellaterra catalunya 08193 spain.2institute of microbiology cas center algatech 379 81 trebon czech republic.3departament de biologia marina i oceanografia institut de ciencies del mar csic barcelona catalunya e08003 spainsummaryestimation of growth rates is crucial to understand the ecological role of prokaryotes and their contribu- tion to marine biogeochemical cycling.

the alteromonadaceae displayed the highest rates in both experiments followed by the rhodobacteraceae but all groups largely responded to filtration and p-amendment even the sar11 which presented low growth rates.

unfortunately there are only a few estimates available for ecologically relevant individual taxa see the recent review by kirchman 2016.growth rates can be estimated following a variety of procedures being the production-per-unit-biomassgrowth rates of bacterioplankton 301approach the most common one.

