however no regimen significantly reduced post- operative mortality in adult surgical patients supplementary appendix 8 efigure 8.2-8.9.subgroup analysisafter classifying the interventions into 3 periods including preoperative postoperative and preoperative plus post- operative therapies nma demonstrated that preoperative plus postoperative synbiotic therapy was more effective in reducing ssi rr  0.23 95 ci 0.09-0.60. we also found that preoperative plus postoperative probiotic therapy was associated with reduction in uti rr  0.48 95 ci 0.25- 0.92. postoperative synbiotic therapy was associated with decreased pneumonia rr  0.14 95 ci 0.03-0.59 and a decrease in any type of infection rr 0.33 95 ci 0.15- 0.75. we also found pre- and postoperative synbiotic ther- apy was the most effective intervention in reduction length of hospital stay mean  9.82 95 ci 6.57-13.08 days.

however appropriate antibiotic proph- ylaxis prior to surgical incision within 60 minutes is needed to prevent ssi because this is standard and best practice based on many studies and part of guidelines used globally 33. in addi- tion a previous study documented that the use of probiotics without antibiotic prophylaxis increased risk of postoperative septic complications including ssi 15.unlike a previous rct 34 our study findings suggest that synbiotics have superior effectiveness to prevent ssi than additional preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis and mbp 34. notably our study results differ from others in that we found no evidence that probiotic prebiotic andor synbiotic therapies could reduce postoperative mortality in adult surgical patients.

the searching algorithm was modified for each database with a combination of relevant terms as pro- posed by cochrane for systematic reviews of rcts 23. the following mesh terms and key words were used to search for relevant literature probiotic prebiotic synbiotic postoperative complications surgical site infection ssi wound infection abdominal abscess peritonitis urinary tract infection uti pneumonia sepsis length of hospital stay length of antibiotic administration mortality surgical operation surgery abdom- inal surgery transplantation colorectal surgery colectomy small bowel surgery hepatectomy biliary surgery and pancreas surgery.study definition and outcomesinterventions of studyprobiotic prebiotic and synbiotic therapies were commit- ted interventions of this study.

numbers in bold represent statistically significant results.synbiotics can inhibit bacterial translocation enhance host immunity and stimulate the growth of beneficial bacteria 7 11 12 resulting in reduced risk of ssi length of hospital stay and duration of antibiotic administration 11 13 14.our findings are consistent with other systematic reviews that probiotics prebiotics andor synbiotics reduce pocs among patients who underwent elective general surgery 30 abdom- inal surgery 31 and liver transplantation 32. we also found that preoperative plus postoperative synbiotic therapy was the best regimen in reducing ssi in adult surgical patients com- pared to other interventions such as probiotics prebiotics mbp enteral nutrition parenteral nutrition and normal diet.

a summary of risk of bias was documented as low high or unclear risk of bias.overall the risk of bias was unclear for random sequence generation in 17 trials 54.8 concealment of treatment allo- cation in 17 trials 54.8 masking of participants masking of investigators or both in 12 trials 38.7 masking of outcome assessment in 13 trials 41.9 supplementary appendix 4.direct meta-analysistreatment effects in pairwise meta-analysis are shown in the appendix supplementary appendix 5.network consistencythe network of eligible comparisons for ssi are shown in figure 1. the details of general characteristics of all interven- tions were given in supplementary appendix 3 and graphical representations of the networks of secondary outcomes are pro- vided in supplementary appendix 6. there was no evidence of loop inconsistency or global inconsistency in all networks except length of antibiotics therapy supplementary appendix 7.publication biaswe did not find publication bias for the network of primary and secondary outcomes supplementary appendix 12 efigures 12.1-12.9.discussionthis systematic review and nma found that synbiotic therapy was the best regimen in reducing ssi pneumonia sepsis hospi- tal stay and antibiotic use in adult surgical patients as compared to probiotics and prebiotics alone.

lastly because most studies came from asia and european countries the results may have limited generalizability to other populations.in conclusion this systematic review and network meta-anal- ysis found the synbiotic therapy ranked first over probiotics prebiotics antibiotic normal diet enteral nutrition oral neo- mycin plus bowel preparation bowel preparation parenteral nutrition synbiotics plus oral neomycin plus bowel prepa- ration and placebo to reduce ssi.

probiotic prebiotic andor synbiotic therapies may not have strong enough effects to reduce postop- erative mortality.current evidence shows that the use of synbiotics in surgical patients is safe 35. its use is associated with mild side effects such as diarrhea distension abdominal cramping pain or dis- comfort 13 36-39. however severe adverse effects including sepsis and death were found when live probiotics were admin- istered to susceptible patients with severe pancreatitis 12 or when given to neonates 12 40. in addition there may be con- cerns about safety of these therapies for some surgical patients i.e.

we found that synbiotic therapy was the best regimen in reducing surgical site infection ssi rr  0.28 95 ci 0.12-0.64 in adult surgical patients.

this network meta-analysis suggests that synbiotic therapy is the first rank to reduce ssi pneumonia sepsis hos- pital stay and antibiotic use.

probiotics prebiotics synbiotics surgical site infection postoperative complication.each year approximately 234 million surgical operations are performed worldwide 1. the majority of surgical patients recover without experiencing postoperative complications pocs.

rr 0.28 95 ci 0.12-0.64 figure 2.secondary outcomessynbiotic therapy was the best intervention to reduce pneu- monia rr  0.28 95ci 0.09-0.90 sepsis rr  0.09 95ci 0.01-0.94 length of hospital stay mean  9.66 days 95 ci 7.60-11.72 and duration of antibiotic administration mean  5.61 days 95 ci 3.19-8.02. we found only synbiotic therapy significantly reduced uti rr  0.27 95 ci 0.10- 0.73. probiotic therapy was the best choice to reduce the length of icu stay.

several studies have shown that probiotic prebiotic andor synbiotic ther- apies reduce pocs such as ssi uti pneumonia and sepsis 11 13 14. however other studies failed to demonstrate the beneficial effects of these therapies in terms of reduced pocs 15-17. in addition individual studies often failed to identify the best choice of probiotic prebiotic and synbiotic therapies to reduce pocs.

the 5 most common surgical proce- dures were abdominal surgery colorectal surgery liver trans- plantation hepatectomy and pancreatectomy table 1 and supplementary appendix 2.s156  cid 201764 suppl 2  kasatpibal et alprimary outcome ssiwe found that synbiotic therapy was the best choice in reduc- ing ssi in adult surgical patients.

the findings revealed that synbiotic therapy was the highest ranked in terms of reducing ssi among patients with gastrointestinal disorders and those who did not have a cancer diagnosis.

supplementary appendix 10 etable 10.2. when only high-quality rcts were used in the nma synbiotic therapy ranked higher than pro- biotics and prebiotics with respect to ssi risk supplementary appendix 10 etable 10.3. this finding was consistent with the standard analysis where we included all studies meeting the inclusion criteria.risk of bias assessmentsstudy quality was assessed using the cochrane collaboration risk of bias tool 23 to assess sequence generation allocation concealment blinding incomplete outcome data selective out- come reporting and other sources of bias.

