at three 24 and 48 hours none of the rats exposed to any of the predatory bacteria strains exhibited significant increases in any inflammatory protein assayed 3. a 6.8- and 9.6-fold increase in il-13 in rats exposed to b. bacteriovorus and m. aeruginosavorus respectively was measured at seven days post-inoculation however none of the other inflammatory cytokines demonstrated substantial change com- pared to control at that time point 3. rats inoculated with k. pneumoniae demonstrated higher inductions of most inflammatory cytokines tested particularly a 6.4-fold increase in ifng by 24 hours post-inoculation 3. in comparison rats inoculated with b. bacteriovorus and m. aeruginosavorus demonstrated no change and a 10-fold decrease in ifng respectively 3. collectively our data indicate that b. bacteriovorus and m. aeruginosavorus do not provoke a robust inflammatory response within the gastrointestinal tract.whole bacterial microbiota overview.

a plaque-forming unit pfu value between 5 x 109 to 5 x 1010 pfuml for b. bacteriovorus and 5 x 108 to 5 x 109 pfuml for m. aeruginosavorus was obtained when the final predator pellet was re-suspended in 1-2 ml of pbs solution toreach a final optical density od600 of 0.2 - 0.02 for b. bacteriovorus and 0.1 - 0.02 for m. aeruginosavorus.

in fact a study found b. bacteriovorus are present in higher abundance within the gastrointestinal tract of healthy individuals compared to patients with inflammatory bowel diseases celiac disease and cystic fibrosis.it was hypothesized that since b. bacteriovorus and m. aeruginosavorus are obligate gram-negative preda- tors they would shift the abundance between gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria over time.

levels of il-13 were slightly higher in rats inoculated with m. aeruginosavorus than with b. bacteriovorus at day seven possibly explained by the fact m. aeruginosavorus are epibiotic predators and are potentially more easily accessible by the immune response elements.

sequence reads per sample ranged from 23302 to a maximum of 263152 filtered reads.at week's end linear regression analysis determined there was no significant difference in the observed or shannon diversity alpha diversity for either b. bacteriovorus-treated or m. aeruginosavorus-treated samples compared to pre-treatment 4. m. aeruginosavorus-treated samples had significantly less alpha diversity than both pbs and b. bacteriovorus-treated samples before treatment at day 0 4. additionally samples appeared to separate slightly according to day feces were collected in weighted ordination analysis which compares com- munity composition of all samples sequenced 5. permanova found time point p  0.002 and cage number which the animal was housed p  0.001 significantly contributed to bacterial microbiota beta diversity differences.

in this image crystal violet was inoculated to visualize where the inoculums would travel within the colon.control bacterial populations but also because evidence has suggested that b. bacteriovorus may actually contrib- ute to health by being a member of the healthy human gut microbiota.as b. bacteriovorus might not survive within the acidic environment of the stomach administering preda- tory bacteria through oral gavage would not allow us to assess the effect they would have within the colon.

a previous study was also not able to detect b. bacteriovorus in the fecal and cecal contents of young chicks after oral administra- tion of predatory bacteria and an antacid signaling that exogenous b. bacteriovorus introduced into the gut environment may be short-lived.

b. bacteriovorus populations are governed by the lotka-volterra prey-predator oscillation where increases in b. bacteriovorus abundances are balanced by phenotypic resistance to predation by the prey.

eighty-six otus 77 of which were firmicutes were significantly overabundant in samples treated with b. bacteriovorus compared to pbs p  0.05 7. classified taxa at the genus level that were significantly overabundant in b. bacteriovorus-treated samples n  otu count include blautia n  6 collinsella n  1 coprococcus n  4 lactococcus n  1 odoribacter n  2 oscollospira n 4 roseburia n 1 and ruminococcus n 1. an additional 69 otus identified as firmicutes were also significantly reduced in b. bacteriovorus-treated samples p  0.05 .

although the measured changes in the bacterial microbiota might signal a potential negative outcome due to introducing m. aeruginosavorus into the gut no changes in animal well-being or behavior was observed.in samples inoculated with b. bacteriovorus there was only one significant differential otu which was an increase in coprococcus eutactus a gram-positive genus.

changes in bacterial populations due to exposure to b. bacteriovorus are predicted to contribute to health however an overgrowth of prevotella was observed due to exposure to m. aeruginosavorus.

the effectiveness of both b. bacteriovorus and m. aeruginosavorus to limit the growth of key human pathogens including those causing mdr infections in vitro is well documented.

it was recently demonstrated that intranasal or intrave- nous inoculation of high doses of either b. bacteriovorus or m. aeruginosavorus in mice resulted in no apparent pathological effects and induced a modest immune response that returned to physiological levels by 24 hours post-inoculation.

to examine the effect of introducing predatory bacteria into the gut on host morbidity we inoculated 8.2 x 108 plaque forming units pfurat of b. bacteriovorus 109j or 4.6 x 107 pfurat of m. aerugi- nosavorus arl-13 into the colons of two groups of sprague dawley sd rats 64 rats each via a rectal catheter 1. two more groups of rats were inoculated with the vehicle phosphate buffered saline pbs 64 rats or sub-lethal concentrations of 9.4 x 107 cfurat of klebsiella pneumoniae atcc 43826 16 rats a known patho- gen. the aforementioned animals and treatment groups were used for all subsequent experiments described in this study.

to determine if predatory bacteria can cause detrimental histopathological effects within the colon histological examination of colon tissue was performed on the previously described sd rats inoculated with pbs b. bacteriovorus m. aeruginosavorus or k. pneumoniae sacrificed at three 24 48 hours or seven days post-inoculation.

