acidic hot springs ph  6.0 are often found in volcanic areas however hot springs in malaysia are circumneutral or slightly alkaline.

2001.resultssite descriptions and physicochemical characteristics of hot springsin this study six hot springs with different physical and chemical conditions were studied table 1. basically the selected sites could be categorized as 1 pond with high nacl content ah hotspring 2 fast-flowing streamer sk hot spring and 3 non- saline pool with standing water us dt ss and se hot springs.

2015 and were compared with data for the other five hot springs studied in the current work figure 1 table 1. the six hot springs exhibit different temperatures 40- 110c and ph 6.9-8.2. the highest temperature was recorded at us 80-110c followed by sk 60-110c and dt 55- 75c.

the microbial community structures in the us and sk hot springs are quite similar both sites cluster together in the biplots in figures 5ab and share similar otus such as thermus hydrogenobacter and caloramator.generally the dominant phyla in the studied hot springs are similar but the sites differ with respect to the overall composition figures 3a 4a.

the moderate-temperature springs ss se and ah were more diverse than the higher- temperature springs at us and dt table 3. this shows that increments in habitat temperature result in decreased taxonomic richness and diversity which is in agreement with earlier findings miller et al.

2015. ah has the highest cn among the six malaysian hot springs partly because seawater has a high cn meyers 1994. dt ss and se hot springs are more species-rich and these sites have low cn 0.5 touratier et al.

1999. even though dt us and sk are high- temperature springs the dominant genera in dt are different from those in the other two springs probably owing to low cn ratio.

additionally the negative correlation between cyanobacteria and water temperature was shown for high-temperature springs us sk and dt hot springs.

 1  2  2  kar-wai hong 2  3  3  1 and 11 faculty of biosciences and medical engineering universiti teknologi malaysia skudai malaysia 2 division of genetics and molecular biology faculty of science institute of biological sciences university of malaya kuala lumpur malaysia3 cindefi cct la plata-conicet unlp facultad de ciencias exactas universidad nacional de la plata la plata argentinaedited byhongchen jiang miami university united statesreviewed bysong zhaoqi shangqiu normal university chinaweiguo hou china university of geoscienceschina brandon briggsuniversity of alaska anchorageunited statescorrespondencekian m. goh specialty section this article was submitted to extreme microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 26 april 2017accepted 21 june 2017published 06 july 2017citationchan cs chan k-g ee r hong k-w urbieta ms donati ermalaysia has a great number of hot springs especially along the flank of the banjaran titiwangsa mountain range.

biological studies of the malaysian hot springs are rare because of the lack of comprehensive information on their microbial communities.

in this study we report a cultivation-independent census to describe microbial communities in six hot springs.

the ulu slim us sungai klah sk dusun tua dt sungai serai ss semenyih se and ayer hangat ah hot springs exhibit circumneutral ph with temperatures ranging from 43c to 90c.

in total 59 61 72 73 65 and 52 bacterial phyla were identified in the us sk dt ss se and ah hot springs respectively.

generally firmicutes and proteobacteria dominated the bacterial communities in all hot springs.

biologists believe that extremophiles inhabiting extreme environments such as hot springs are the closest living descendents of the earliest life forms on earth woese et al.

