at genus level clostridium increased following infection in the all ls group ls 0 and ls 4 conversely the genus ruminococcus decreased only in ls 4 samples simi- lar changes were induced by mixed eimeria infection in a previous study .while it is unsurprising that changes in abundance of bacteria occur following e. tenella infection of particular interest was the examination of differential taxa according to caecal lesion score.

additionally differences in species strain and level of eimeria parasite infection may explain between study variations in alpha diversity .eimeria infection per se also did not produce a significant impact on caecal microbiome beta-diversity p  0.062 compared to uninfected controls.

this work highlights that e. tenella infection has a significant impact on the abundance of some caecal bacteria with notable differences detected between lesion score categories emphasising the impor- tance of accounting for differences in caecal lesions when investigating the relationship between e. tenella and the poultry intestinal microbiome.competing interests the authors have declared that no competing interests exist.introductionover the last 20 years global poultry production has tripled with approximately 90 million tonnes of chicken meat and 1.1 trillion eggs now produced every year   .

these results highlight the importance of considering eimeria parasite induced pathology when analysing caecal microbial diversity.numbers of differentially abundant taxa identified following infection were similar to pre- vious reports investigating the influence of eimeria on the caecal microbiome  .assessment of differential abundance was correlated to otuspecies level where possible as it is known that analysis at higher taxonomic levels can lead to inaccuracies however where nec- essary abundance at higher taxonomic levels is discussed .

it is now hypothesised that a combination of factors are involved and results from this study suggest either a func- tional role for the enteric microbiome or microbial variation as a consequence of infection.the importance of the enteric microbiome to fermentation and effective use of dietary resources underlines the significance of these changes .conclusionthe current study has demonstrated that e. tenella infection of cobb500 broilers elicited sig- nificant changes in the abundance of a number of microbial taxa in the caecal microbiome that were correlated with the most severe caecal pathology.

infection may also result in haemorrhagic lesions of varying severity influenced by parasite dose size and age ofthe bird as well as host genotype and previous infection history  .

no changes in alpha-diversity were found following infection even in samples from birds with severe or extremely severe lesions ls 3 ls 4. others have also concluded that microbial community richness was not significantly affected by e. tenella  or mixed infection e. acervulina e. maxima e. tenella  but did not assess disease severity.

1995 7411-7.arakawa a baba e fukata t. eimeria tenella infection enhances salmonella typhimurium infection in chickens.

research articleeffects of eimeria tenella infection on chicken caecal microbiome diversity exploring variation associated with severity of pathologysarah e. macdonald1 matthew j. nolan1 kimberley harman1 kay boulton2 davida.

2017 effects of eimeria tenella infection on chicken caecal microbiome diversity exploring variation associated with severity of pathology.

this study evaluated the composition and structure of the caecal microbiome in the presence or absence of a defined eimeria tenella challenge infection in cobb500 broiler chickens using 16s rrna amplicon sequencing.

following e. tenella infection the diversity of taxa within the caecal microbiome remained largely stable.

the results support the view that caecal microbiome dysbiosis associated with eimeria infection contributes to disease pathology and could be a target for intervention to mitigate the impact of coccidiosis on poultry productivity and welfare.

the aim of this study was to define the caecal lumen microbiome of a commercial broiler chicken line following e. tenella infection exploring variation associ- ated with the severity of pathology induced by exposure to a single homogeneous parasite challenge.materials and methodsanimal ethics statementthe work described here was conducted in accordance with uk home office regulations under the animals scientific procedures act 1986 aspa with protocols approved by the royal veterinary college animal welfare and ethical review body awerb.

all birds were weighed two days before infection and immediately prior to culling.dna extraction and preparationdna was extracted from each sample of caecal contents using a qiaamp dna stool kit qia- gen hilden germany with the following modifications.

