an alpha of 0.05 was used to reject null hypotheses.resultsphysical and dietary parameters of micebody weight of all obese mice with and without barley was similar median  47.3 g for supplemented mice median  45.6 g for obese controls at the end of the study 8 weeks and both were significantly higher compared to lean mice median  30 g p  0.0001 kruskal-wallis test.while food consumption was higher in barley group average5.9 - 0.87 g foodanimalday compared to obese-control group 4.4 - 0.4 g foodanimalday and to lean control 3.0 - 0.1 g foodanimalday p  0.001 kruskal-wallis test the body weight gain was similar between obese con- trol and barley throughout the study period fig.

in contrast the less studied succinic acid showed in this study a much lower concentration in caecal contents of barley-supplemented mice compared to all obese mice table .biomarkers of obesity and inflammationusing a subset of samples results from plasma biomarkers of obesity and inflammation showed that the levels of fasting glucose triglycerides total-chl and ldl-chl were simi- lar between all obese mice supplementary table s2 even though barley group showed higher bmi compared to obese control table s1.

this suggests an important difference between genetically obese and diet-induced obese rodent models as shown elsewhere .in this study barley supplementation decreased plasma resistin insulin and protein carbonyls compared to obese controls.

doi 10.1007s00394-017-1523-yeffect of barley supplementation on the fecal microbiota caecal biochemistry and key biomarkers of obesity and inflammation in obese dbdb micejose f. garcia-mazcorro1  david a. mills2  kevin murphy3  giuliana noratto45received 16 january 2017  accepted 6 august 2017c springer-verlag gmbh germany 2017abstractpurposebarley is a low-glycemic index grain that canhelp diabetic and obese patients.

caecal butyrate concentrations were similar in all obese mice while succinic acid was lower in the barley group compared to obese controls.

cg-dock7mleprdbolahsd--lean black heterozygous mice were used as lean controls n  11 for the obese db db control because they have the closely linked recombinant genes dock7mleprdb instead of the leprdbleprdb that makes the obese counterparts leptin receptor deficient.

inter- estingly the bmi in barley group was higher compared to obese control and lean control but this phenomenon was not due to body fat accumulation since barley group and obese control had similar adiposity indexes supplemen- tary table s1.

the higher bmis in barley-supplemented mice compared to obese controls was due to a higher body weight although not statistically significantly p  0.3922 at the end of the study mann-whitney test and a relatively lower body length also not statistically significant when compared to obese controls p  0.2166 mann-whitney test which may be related to the difference in caloric intake table  table s1.

dotted lines represent medians straight lines represent averagesunweighted unifrac is important to highlight because other studies from our research group have shown a clustering of all control samples lean and obese separated from whole- wheat-supplemented obese mice using unweighted unifrac distances .

interestingly the bmi in barley group was higher compared to obese control and lean control but this phenomenon was not due to body fat accumulation since all obese mice with and without barley had similar adiposity indexes.

for example one study showed that bacteroidetes was lower in obese compared to lean mice  although conflicting reports where obese individuals have more bacteroidetes have been published  .

based on these observations the fact that barley helped lower the concentration of this compound in this current study compared to obese controls could be considered a positive effect however the question remains as to why metabolically healthy lean mice had similar in fact higher although not statistically concentrations of suc- cinic acid compared to obese zhong et al.

bar- ley supplementation did not have an effect on caecal butyrate compared to obese controls but succinic acid was much lower compared to lean and obese controls.

this study investigated the effect of barley intake on the fecal microbiota caecal biochemistry and key biomarkers of obe- sity and inflammation.methods obese dbdb mice were fed diets with and with- out barley during 8 weeks lean mice were used as lean con- trols.

operational taxonomic units and shannon diversity indexes were similar in all obese mice with and without barley and higher com- pared to lean controls.

