his research interests include the use of molecular methods to characterise the human oral microbiome in health and disease.rebecca moazzez is director of the oral clinical research unit at king's college london and has interests in a number of aspects of oral health particularly erosive tooth wear.clementine thabuis is a research scientist at roquette with a particular interest in polyols nutritional effects and oral health.caroline perreau is a research scientist at roquette with a particular interest in polyols nutritional effects and oral health.william g. wade is a professor of oral microbiology with interests in the characterisation of the human microbiome and development and evaluation of novel prevention and treatment measures for oral diseases.referencestakahashi n nyvad b. the role of bacteria in the caries process ecological perspectives.

9 1374152httpsdoi.org10.108020002297.2017.1374152articleeffect of maltitol-containing chewing gum use on the composition of dental plaque microbiota in subjects with active dental carieserica m. prosdocimi james o. kistler rebecca moazzez clementine thabuis caroline perreau and william g. wadeacentre for immunobiology blizard institute barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry queen mary university of london london uk bdivision of mucosal and salivary biology king's college london dental institute london uk croquette lestrem francearticle historyreceived 21 february 2017accepted 23 august 2017keywordscaries microbiome maltitol plaque chewing gumintroductiondental caries is primarily caused by excessive and frequent consumption of readily fermentable carbo- hydrates .

they were also shown to increase plaque ph and reduce plaque scores and levels of caries-associated bacterial species from the genera streptococcus lactobacillus and actinomyces .

samples of plaque were collected at baseline following which subjects were asked to use the chew- ing gum five times two pieces of sweetpearlr maltitol gum or one piece of gum base a day for 2 weeks after which further plaque samples were collected.the chewing gums were experimental formula- tions.

the plaque from each subject at each visit was pooled and placed in 1 ml ssde buffer saline-saturated 20 dmso- 0.25m edta ph 8.0 and stored at -70degc until being subjected to analysis.dna was extracted from the plaque samples by means of the genelute dna extraction kit merck gillingham uk with the additional pre-treatment with lysozyme merck recommended by the manu- facturers for gram-positive bacteria and 16s rrna genes amplified by pcr with primers 27f with the ym modification and 519r targeting variable regions 1-3. each sample was amplified using pri- mers incorporating a unique barcode and roche 454 adapters.

of 33777 actinomyces sequences analysed by minimum entropy decomposition 6458 were removed as out- liers due to the stringency of the parameters set and 27319 were binned into 262 med nodesfigure 1. distribution of predominant bacterial genera among groups and treatments.figure 2. non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds plot comparing the bacterial community membership j-class distances of plaque samples before and after using chewing gum for 2 weeks.figure 3. non-metric multidimensional scaling nmds plot comparing the bacterial community structure th-yc of plaque samples before and after using chewing gum for 2 weeks.figure 4. box plot showing mutans-group streptococci as a proportion of the total microbiota.

a longer duration of treatment may therefore have shown an effect of chewing on levels of bacterial caries markers and should be investigated for effects on plaque microbiota composition.the levels of the caries-associated bacterial groups mutans-group streptococci and lactobacilli in plaque were very low even in the caries-active group.

the aim of this study was to investigate the interac- tion between maltitol and oral bacteria by comparing the composition of the dental plaque microbiota in patients with active caries before and after using a chewing gum supplemented with maltitol or base gum for 2 weeks.

there were no significant differences in the richness or diversity of the samples kruskal-wallis test.sequences were identified with reference to homd version 13.2. the composition of the plaque communities at genus level is shown in and was consistent with previous studies of the oral microbiome.

bacteria in dental plaque produce acids that degrade the tooth tissues and the local reduction of ph leads to the selection of an aciduric microbiota which contributes further to lesion development.

polyols such as xylitol can inhibit acid production by plaque reduce the numbers of acid-producing bacteria and have been shown to be anti-cariogenic .

chewing gum stimulates salivary flow promoting the removal of dietary fermentable carbohydrate from the mouth while also removing plaque from the teeth .

the composition of the plaque microbiota was determined using a high-c 2017 the authors.

subjects gave verbal confirmation of com- pliance with the chewing regimen and returned the empty chewing gum pots after treatment.a plaque sample was collected after 2 weeks' use ofa standard toothpaste.

plaque was collected at least 1 h after the last meal from the interproximal areas on all upper and lower premolar and molar teeth.

