hybrid sturgeon fed diet supplemented with raffinose had significantly higher final body weight fbw specific growth rate sgr and weight gain ratio wgr than fish fed the control diet p  0.05. raffinose in diet had no negative effect on feed intake fi and feed conversion ratio fcr p  0.05. compared with the control diet the myeloperoxidase mpo and respiratory burst nbt activitives were significantly higher in sturgeon fed the raffinose supplemented diet p  0.05. the increasing of in- testinal villi area and mucosal folds were observed in intestinal tract of sturgeon when they fed the raffinose supplemented diet.

similarly the result showed that the intestinal mucosal folds and microvilli density compared with the control diet treatment were much extensive and abundanter in stur- geon fed raffinose supplemented diet e g i  k. in ad- dition the residual bait of sturgeon fed the control diet  f h j  l was more than that of sturgeon fed the diet supplemented with raffinose.intestinal microbiologya total of 1104044 sequence reads from the sturgeon digesta were retained after trimming after removing low quality reads 162192.5 - 59565.5 and 284412.5 - 171215.5 sequences for con- trol and raffinose treatments respectively were used for downstream analyses.

in conclusion supplementation of the diet with raffinose is capable of improving hybrid sturgeon growth performances and intestinal morphology modifying the intestinal microbial composition.introductionas the living fossil sturgeons are ancient and have relatively low rates of evolution compared with other vertebrates.

the sem images were analyzed to assess the re- lative abundance of microvilli count and mucosal fold and to observe the residual diets in intestinal tract.the whole intestinal tract with faecal matter was removed from the other three sedated fish in each tank.

all sampling operations were conducted on the ice and the whole intestinal tract samples were stored in -80 degc immediately for the following intestinal microbiology ana- lysis.after all sampling all rest fish in each tank were weighted and counted.

in the current study sturgeon fed the diet supplemented with raffinose presented the extensive intestinal mucosal folds and abundanter microvilli density which translated to increased enterocyte absorptive area and subsequently resulted in the improved growth performance when compared with sturgeon fed the control diet.

shannon's diversity index of sturgeon fed the diet supplemented with raffinose was significantly higher than sturgeon fed the control diet p  0.05.discussionindeed recent trials have emphasized prebiotics have great poten- tial as agents to improve or maintain a balanced intestinal microflora to enhance health and wellbeing.

6 fish in each tank were randomly and quickly captured and weighed individually after being anaesthetized by immersion untilfish meal51.051.0wheat flour37.4837.6premixes1.41.4soy lecithin2.02.0anchovy oil8.08.0raffinose0.120proximate compositiondry matter  dm90.2690.30crude protein  dm45.1945.24crude fat  dm9.8010.16ash  dm6.386.37gross energy mj kg-118.0518.06a fishmeal and anchovy oil were supplied by triplenine fish product co. esbjerg denmark and 5g kg-1 bht dry diet was added into anchovy oil to prevent lipid per- oxidation.b guchan group beijing china.c beijing enhalor biotech ltd. co. beijing china.d yihai kerry investment company limited shandong china.e china cotton-unis bioscience co.ltd beijing china.f all diets were produced at national aquafeed safety evaluation station beijing china as extruded pellets.sedate in a 2-phenoxy ethanol 0.30 ml l-1 water solution.

based on recording the weight of all fish and counting the number of sturgeon specific growth rate sgr feeding intake fi feed conversion ratio fcr and weight gain rate wgr were calcu- lated using the following equationssgr  100 x ln fbw - ln ibw  daysfi  100 x diet consumed  days  fish number fcr  feed consumed  fbw - ibwwgr  100 x fbw - ibw  ibwibw is initial body weight fbw is final body weight and days are total duration of experiment.the methods of proximate composition analysis of dietsdry matter was analyzed by drying the samples to constant weight at 105 degc.

schrenckii brandt  raffinosemicrobiome intestinal structurea b s t r a c t this study was performed to determine the efficacy of raffinose on the growth non-specific immunity intestinal morphology and microbiota of juvenile hybrid sturgeon acipenser baeri brandt x a. schrenckii brandt .

glucomannan and mannanoligosaccharide of konjac could enhance the growth per-formance improve intestinal morphology and modulate intestinal mi- croflora of schizothorax prenanti or pelteobagrus fulvidraco respectivelyfig.

the results of growth perfor- mance and non-special immunity have also confirmed this claim in the current study.in summary the present study represents supplementation of hybridsturgeon diets with raffinose is capable of improving growth perfor- mances by means of changing intestinal histology and intestinal mi- crobiota.

in this respect manipulating the microbiota within the gastrointestinal tract gi of the fish has given us a more broad understanding of the importance of the intestinal microbiota .

2-h.the smooth and tidy intestinal walls few bait residual in sturgeon fed raffinose supplemented diet  a  c. on the contrary the in- testinal walls presented damage and some feed existed in the front intestine when sturgeon fed with the control diets  b  d. the structures of mid-intestine and terminal intestine were also displayed in and  respectively.

likewise the diet is also a significant factor affecting the intestinal microbiota .

