2014. in our previous studies that screened potential probiotic strains of lactobacillus strains derived from caries-free subjects we found that some strains for example lactobacillus paracasei sd1 and lactobacillus rhamnosus sd11 previously identified as lactobacillus fermentum sd11 exhibited strong activity in inhibiting growth of oral pathogens by producing antimicrobial substances teanpaisan et al.

the applicability of using l. rhamnosus sd11 as a starter culture for fermented milk was compared with use of l. bulgaricus.materials and methodsbacterial strains culture conditions and fermented milk preparationlactobacillus rhamnosus sd11 a strain selected from caries-free subjects was previously identified as l. fer- mentum sd11 using pcr-rflp analysis of 16s rrna gene profiles and protein profiles of sds-page tean- paisan and dahlen 2006. the identity of the strain was further confirmed as l. rhamnosus sd11 by its 16s rrna gene sequences the presence of a specific band at the same level of lactobacillus rhamnosus gg using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis with primers of carp according to piwat and teanpaisan 2013 and lack of reaction with specific primers for l. fermentum strains dickson et al.

however the po- tential benefits of probiotic l. rhamnosus sd11 on oral health require further evaluation with a larger group of volunteers in a longer-term study.key words probiotics oral health mutans streptococci lactobacilliintroductionprobiotics have been used for decades in fermented products such as fermented milk and it is accepted that probiotics can provide a health benefit such as in the prevention and treatment of gastrointestinal and im- munological disorders cremonini et al.

the probiotic strain being preserved with fermented milk was supported by the present study and other studies all of which used fermented milk as the carrier for probiotic strains and all demonstrated that probiotics helped reduce counts of mutans streptococci petti et al.

rhamnosus sd11 in probiotic subjects are shown in figure 2. no side effects were reported in any group.to examine the possibility of using l. rhamnosus sd11 as a starter culture for fermented milk we moni- tored viable counts and ph values of fermented milk containing l. bulgaricus or l. rhamnosus sd11 for 6 mo and the results are shown in table 3. we detected no difference in viable counts or ph values in the fer- mented milks over 6 mo however the ph of fermentedfigure 2. dna fingerprint profiles using enterobacterial repetitive intergenic consensus eric primers of lactobacillus rhamnosus sd11 lane 5 and 9 lactobacillus strains isolated from saliva of 4 subjects in the probiotic group lanes 1 and 2 lanes 3 and 4 lanes 6-8 and lanes 9 and 10 belonged to 4 individual subjects respectively.

2008. the main mechanism of action is based on enhancing the commensal microbiota and preventing colonization by true pathogens.some lactobacillus strains have been previously evaluated as potential probiotics for the prevention of oral diseases such as dental caries cagetti et al.

2011. subsequently it was found that lactobacillus paracasei sd1 and l. rhamnosus sd11 produced bac- teriocins with molecular masses of 24028.2 and 33000 da respectively wannun et al.

2016. some studies have shown that oral administration of lactobacillus reuteri-containing probiotic lozenges could be a useful adjunct to scaling and root planing in chronic peri- odontitis teughels et al.

this finding is in agreement with previous studies with fermented milks containing lactobacilli or bifidobacteria petti et al.

2011. fermented milk was chosen in this study because it has a long history of beneficial health effects in humans for examples in improving lactose digestion in lactose- intolerant people affecting intestinal transit time and stimulating the gut immune system elli et al.

survival of a probiotic strain in the host as well as in the carrier is generally considered a key feature for probiotics to preserve their health- promoting effects.among previously studied lactobacillus rhamnosusstrains l. rhamnosus gg and l. rhamnosus lc 705 were commonly strains used in clinical trials for dental caries prevention cagetti et al.

lactobacillus rhamnosus sd11 persisted in the probiotic group 80 of subjects up to 4 wk fol- lowing cessation of dosing whereas l. rhamnosus gg could be detected in only 3.7 of subjects after 7 d of intervention yli-knuuttila et al.

the culture was then added to 450 ml of mrs broth and kept under anaerobic conditions at 37degc for 48 h. cells were harvested by centrifugation 3000 x g 5 min from the mrs broth and washed 3 times with 0.85 nacl before being used.the fermented milks were prepared by the dairy home industries company nakornrachasrima thai- land and consisted of fresh milk fermented with l. rhamnosus sd11 or l. bulgaricus as a starter culture for the probiotic and control fermented milks respectively.

xymeans within control group differ between t4 and t8 p  0.05 one-way anova followed by post hoc test bonferroni.1probiotic and control groups consumed 100 mld for 4 wk of fermented milk containing lactobacillus rhamnosus sd11 or lactobacillus bulgari- cus respectively as a starter culture.

saliva samples were collected at baseline t0 4 wk t4 and 8 wk t8 for bacterial counts.table 2. clinical parameters including gingival index gi plaque index pi and dental caries status dmft decayed missing filled index of volunteers in groups at different times11probiotic and control groups consumed 100 mld for 4 wk of fermented milk containing lactobacillus rhamno- sus sd11 or lactobacillus bulgaricus respectively as a starter culture.

