from days 29 to 42 and the overall period there were linear increases p  0.05 in adg and gf associated with the supplementation of xylanase but no significant difference p  0.05 was observed in adfi.nutrient digestibility blood parameters fecal microbiota fecal score and fecal noxious gas emissionthere were linear increases p  0.05 in the attd of dm n and ge associated with the supplementation of xylanase in the diet table 3. no differences p  0.05 were observed on creatinine concentration among treatments but bun concentration shown a lin- ear decrease p  0.05 associated with the supplemen- tation of xylanase table 4. no differences p  0.05 were observed on fecal e. coli counts among treatments however there was a linear increase p  0.05 in fecal lactobacillus counts associated with the supplementation of xylanase table 5. at weeks 1 2 3 and 4 no differ- ences p  0.05 were observed on fecal score among treatments however at weeks 5 and 6 fecal score showed a linear decrease p  0.05 associated with the supplementation of xylanase table 6. no differ- ences p  0.05 were observed on fecal total mercap- tans emission among treatments but nh3 and h2s emission showed linear decreases p  0.05 associated with the supplementation of xylanase table 7.xylanase added in corn-soybean based diet 1401table 2 effects of xylanase supplementation on growth performance in weanling pigsused 150 weaning pigs with an average initial body weight of 7.85 0.93 kg.

animal science journal 2017 88 1398-1405doi10.1111asj.12771origina l article effects of xylanase supplementation on growth performance nutrient digestibility blood parameters fecal microbiota fecal score and fecal noxious gas emission of weaning pigs fed corn-soybean meal-based dietruixia lan tianshui li and inho kimdepartment of animal resource and science dankook university cheonan south koreaabstractthis study was conducted to evaluate the effects of xylanase supplementation on nutrient digestibility growth performance blood parameters fecal microflora shedding fecal score and fecal noxious gas emission of weaning pigs fed corn-soybean meal based diet.

therefore the reduced fecal nh3 and h2s emissions in this study were probably due to the enhanced nutrient digestibility and lactobacillus counts.conclusionsdietary supplementation of xylanase improved growth performance nutrient digestibility shifted microbiota by increasing fecal lactobacillus counts decreased bun concentration fecal score and fecal nh3 and h2s emissions in weaning pigs.acknowledgmentsthe authors gratefully acknowledge the support by department of animal resources  science dankook university.

in this study pigs fed xylanase supplementation diet showed linear decrease in fecal score at weeks 5 and 6 but not at weeks 14. from weeks 36 there was a linear increasing trend in adg following weaning and reflects the pigs adapted to the post-weaning diet with increased fecal lactobacillus counts and nutrient digestibility.fecal noxious gas emissionthe fecal noxious gas nh3 h2s and total mercaptans are major aerial pollutants originating from animal pro- duction lesschen et al.

in conclusion dietary supplementation of xylanase improved growth performance nutrient digestibility shifted microbiota by increasing fecal lactobacillus counts decreased bun concentration fecal score and fecal nh3 and h2s emission in weaning pigs.key words corn-soybean meal based diet growth performance noxious gas emission weaning pigs xylanase.introductioncorn an important feedstuffs in livestock feeding is a very uniform product and easily digestible with slight variations in protein and energy.

the objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of xylanase supplementation on growth performance nutrient digestibility blood parameters fecal microbiota fecal score and fecal noxious gas emission of weaning pigs fed corn-soybean meal based diet.materials and methodsthe experimental protocol used in this study was approved by the animal care and use committee of dankook university china.enzyme sourcethe enzyme preparation used in this study was nutrase xyla nutrex nv lille belgium derived from fermentation by bacillus subtilis.

the xylanase supplementation linearly increased p  0.05 average daily gain adg and gain  feed ratio gf from days 29 to 42 and the in overall period dry matter nitrogen and energy digestibility and fecal lactobacilli counts and linearly decreased p  0.05 blood urea nitrogen bun concentration fecal nh3 and h2s emission.

cfu colony-forming units se standard error.1402 r. lan et al.table 6 effects of xylanase supplementation on fecal score in weanling pigsused 150 weaning pigs with an average initial body weight of 7.85 0.93 kg.

therefore further studies are necessary to investigate the digestibil- ity of amino acid by pigs provided with the experimental diets used in this study.fecal microbiota and fecal scoreit has been suggested that non-starch polysaccharide degrading enzyme nspase supplementation might influence the intestinal microbiota through two main mechanisms reducing the undigested substrates and releasing oligosaccharides from cell wall nsps with potential prebiotic effects he et al.

2002. in this study the xylanase supplementation increased fecal lactobacillus counts which indicated that xylanase hydrolysis products containing arabinose and xylose may have positive effects on lactic acid bacteria activity saha 2001. these observations support the recent interest in using carbohydrase enzymes for beneficial effects on gut microbiota balance pluske et al.

to obtain the serum sample blood samples were centrifuged at 3000 x g for 15 min at 4deg c. to analyze fecal microbial flora fecal samples were collected from each pen via rectal massage then pooled and placed on ice for transportation to the laboratory for immediate analysis.

for fecal gas emission analyzing fecal samples were taken from at least two pigs in each pen and stored in 2.6 l plastic boxes in duplicate.

the score is re- ported as average daily fecal score of individual pig score.chemical analysisfor chemical analysis fecal samples were dried at 70degc for 72 h and finely ground to pass through a 1-mm screen.

fecal scores were determined using the following fecal scoring system 1  hard dry pellet 2  firm formed stool 3  soft moist stool that retains shape 4  soft unformed stool that assumes shape of container 5  watery liquid that can be poured.

2011 reported that fecal noxious gas emission is associated with nutrient digestibility because the higher digestibility may result to lower substrate for the microbial fermenta- tion in the large intestine which consequently decreases fecal noxious gas emission.

