a probability value of p  0.05 was considered to be statistically significant and the notable differences between the treatments were determined by tukey's multiple comparisons test.resultsgrowth performanceas shown in table 2 there were no significant differences in adfi adg and fg among the threec 2017 japanese society of animal scienceanimal science journal 2017 88 1414-1424use of organic acids and essential oils 1417table 2 effects of inclusion product of organic acids and essential oils on growth performance of broilers during the trial periodabmean values within a row with different superscript letters were significantly different p  0.05. c a or p birds were offered a basal diet c basal diet with 0.15 gkg enramycin premix a or basal diet with 0.30 gkg of the protected essential oils and organic acids mixture product p. sem standard error of the mean adg average daily gain adfi average daily feed intake fg ratio of feed to gain bw body weight.groups p  0.05 during the first stage days 0-21. but the protected essential oils and organic acids mixture supplementation reduced adfi and fg ratio at 22-42 days of age p  0.05. during the whole stage days 1-42 fg was reduced signifi- cantly in the antibiotics group and product group when compared with the control p  0.05.immune organ indexeffects of inclusion of essential oils and organic acids on the immune organ index of broilers are presented in table 3. there were no differences in organ indexes of broilers at 21 days p  0.05. however birds in the product group showed higher spleen index than the other two groups p  0.05 at 42 days.intestinal morphologyas presented in figure 1 diet supplemented with the inclusion of essential oils and organic acids hadtable 3 effects of inclusion product of organic acids and essential oils on the immune organ index of broilers during the trial periodno effects on duodenal and ileal morphology at 21 and 42 days as well as jejunal morphology at 21 days.

birds were offered a basal diet c basal diet with 0.15 gkg enramycin premix a and basal diet with 0.30 gkg pro- tected essential oils and organic acids mixture product p. the results showed that protected essential oils and organic acids mixture supplementation reduced average daily feed intake and ratio of feed to gain fg at 22-42 days of age and fg during 1-42 days of age also declined p  0.05. product supplementation improved spleen index villus height and crypt depth of the jejunum at 42 days when compared with the control p  0.05. in addition secretory immunoglobulin a level of ileal mucosa and trypsin and chymotrypsin activities of intestinal tract were higher in the p treatment.

c a or p birds were offered a basal diet c basal diet with 0.15 gkg enramycin premix a or basal diet with 0.30 gkg of the protected essential oils and organic acids mixture product p. sem standard error of the mean.microbiota of the intestinegel profiles of intestinal bacterium pcr-dgge are shown in figures s1 to s3 and their fingerprint recognition maps are shown in figure 3. in the duodenum number 1-4 bands appear among allanimal science journal 2017 88 1414-1424c 2017 japanese society of animal science1418 y. liu et al.figure 1 effects of inclusion product organic acids and essential oils on intestine morphology in broilers at 21 and 42 days.

what is more organic acid salts inhibited the growth of many intestinal bacteria and further decreased the inflammatory process iji  tivey 1998.in parallel with the results above the experimen- tal data showed an obvious rise of siga content in ileum mucosa of the product group at 21 and 42 days than th eantibiotics and product groups as well as in the duodenum at 42 days.

bars with different letters were significantly different p  0.05. c a or p birds were offered a basal diet c basal diet with0.15 gkg enramycin premix a or basal diet with 0.30 gkg of the protected essential oils and organic acids mixture product p the same as in figure 2.table 4 effects of inclusion product of organic acids and essential oils on the intestinal mucosa siga of broilers mg 100 mgdaysitemscapsem p-valueabmean values within a row with different superscript letters were significantly different p  0.05. c a or p birds were offered a basal diet c basal diet with 0.15 gkg enramycin premix a or basal diet with 0.30 gkg of the protected essential oils and organic acids mixture product p. siga secretory immunoglobulin asem standard error of the meangroups at 42 days.

feed intake and body weight were recorded during the former phase days 1-21 later phase days 22-42 and whole phase days 1-42. average daily feed intake adfi average daily gain adg and ratio of feed to gain fg were calcu- lated for each period.immune organ indextwo birds from each replicate group were randomly weighed at days 21 and 42. the thymus spleen and bursa were removed and weighed immediatelytable 1 composition and nutrient levels of basal diet as-fed basiscontenttherefore this experiment was conducted to investigate systematically and scientifically the effectsitemsingredients 1-21 days22-42 daysof jefo's protected combination of organic acids andessential oils in poultry feeding.

in contrast siga level of ileal mucosa significantly ascended in the treatment p when compared with the other groups p  0.05. the rise of duodenal mucosa siga in the p group was only detected at 42 days p  0.05.digestive enzyme activitiesas shown in figure 2 there were no differences in amylase activity of the intestinal tract among the three groups at 21 and 42 days.

in addition trypsin activities in the ileum at 21 days and three intestinal segments at 42 days were higher than in the antibiotics group.

2009 thereby showing that a higher siga level implied that dietary inclusion of essential oils and organic acids addition improved intestinal tract health in broilers which was similar to the results that aminobutyric acid increased siga content in intestinal mucosa which showed an obvious reduction at first due to heat stress chen et al.

however at 42 days of age product supple- mentation significantly elevated the villus height and crypt depth of the jejunum p  0.05.sigaeffects of inclusion of essential oils and organic acids on the intestinal mucosa siga of broilers are pre- sented in table 4. there were no effects on siga level of jejunal mucosa among the three groups.

the percentages under every group show their similarity with the 100 group in microbiota.table 5 qualitative analysis of duodenal microbes in broilers during the trial periodtable 6 qualitative analysis of jejunal microbes in broilers during the trial periodc a or p birds were offered a basal diet c basal diet with0.15 gkg enramycin premix a or basal diet with 0.30 gkg of the protected essential oils and organic acids mixture product p.gain and feed intake but did not change fg of broil- ers during 1-21 days akyurek  yel 2011. dietary single formic or propionic acid and their mixture increased adg and adfi of broilers and single pro- pionic acid supplements reduced fg al-kassi  mohssen 2009. in addition supplementation of citric acid in diets lowered fg asgar et al.

the current study showed that duodenal and ileal morphology were not affected after product or enramycin supple- mentation in broiler diets but when compared withthe control villus height of the jejunum at 42 days was elevated in both the antibiotics and product groups.

2014. different results among studies may be related to the source dose composi- tion and type of additive product used in broiler diets.what is interesting was that fg was reduced in the product group under the condition of no change in adfi and adg at 1-42 days.

these data suggested that dietary mixture of organic acids and essential oils addition could be used in the poultry industry as an antibiotic growth promoter alterna- tive.key words broiler essential oils growth performance intestinal health organic acids.introductionwith the development of intensive and scale-up breeding in the broiler industry environmental stress becomes increasingly aggressive giving rise to various intestinal health problems induced by pathogenic bacteria.

from previous studies we can see that measurements mainly focused on indi- viduals regarding performance digestive enzymes intestinal morphology intestinal salmonella ande.

