Therefore three types of set-aside methods were established i intercropping and mixed sowing instead of monoculture  ii changing the crops on arable land iii improving the management of farmland and relieving the pressure of traditional farming.The health of arable land is closely linked to soil microbial properties  and the capability of cultivated land is significantly correlated with microbial biomass carbon MBC and microbial biomass nitrogen MBN .

The arrows represent soil properties including carbon-nitrogen ratio CN available phosphorus AP microbial biomass nitrogen MBN bulk density BD microbial biomass carbon MBC microbial biomass carbon-nitrogen ratio MB-CN total nitrogen TN available nitrogen AN available potassium AK soil organic carbon SOC.

Integrated soil microbiota and the content of carbon and nitrogen native plants with farmyard manure showed an equilibrium state relatively which would be helpful to improve land quality in the short-term.Keywords set-aside patterns microbial communities microbial biomass carbon farmyard manure soil enzymeIntroductionAccording to the Ministry of Land and Resources of the People's Republic of China approximately 2.67 of the arable land in China is in excellent condition based on the Chinese standard Regulation for gradation on agriculture land quality GBT 28407-2012 defining soil fertility productivity irrigation etc.

We used a soil microbial method to study the mechanism of different set-aside methods on the microbial community structure and enzyme activity.

There were 1835534 high-quality sequences obtained and sequence number of each sample was from 7599 to 101297 Table S1.Soil Microbial BiomassThe composited soils were divided into two parts one was sieved to pass through a 2-mm mesh immediately and stored at 4 C until analysis for the estimation of microbial biomass carbon MBC and microbial biomass nitrogen MBN.

SOC soil organic carbon MBC microbial biomass carbon MBN microbial biomass nitrogen.Soil EnzymeThe b-glucosidase activity is shown in Figure a. CK and I1 presented significantly higher than did the others except O1 whereas I3 presented significantly lower values than did CK I1 and O1 p  0.05.

Nevertheless set-asides significantly affected microbial biomass and microbial communities.

The results did not show obvious benefits to soil enzymes in the short-term but short-term set-asides could affect soil microbial functions via the microbial biomass and communities.

Few studies have compared short-term set-aside patterns and the effects of set-asides on soil microbial community and enzyme enzymes.

We analyzed the bacterial structure microbial biomass carbonnitrogen and enzyme activity of farmland soil under different set-aside regimes in the Yellow River Delta of China.

