while each of the studies included in the pooled analysis had a low risk of bias and administered probiotic supplements to women with gdm over a similar intervention period significant interstudy heterogeneity was observed i2  88 p  0.001 so the calculated mean difference should be interpreted as an average intervention effect.figure 2. effect of probiotic supplementation on fasting plasma glucose mmoll in pregnant women with gestational diabetes.insulin resistancefour trials estimated insulin resistance in study participants by calculating homa-ir from fasting glucose and insulin values -.

data items collected included first author article title journal name year of publication country in which trial was conducted number of trial participants intervention group n and control group n mean participant age year mean participant bmi kgm2 mean gestational age week mean length of intervention week composition of probiotic supplement genus species number of micro-organisms in probiotic supplement cfug mean gestational weight gain kg mean fasting blood glucose mmoll mean homeostasis model assessment--insulin resistance homa-ir units mean ldl-cholesterol mmoll mean number of normal deliveries n mean number of caesarian sections n mean number of interventions during delivery n maternal complications n infant complications n and infant birth weight g.trials measuring fbg ldl-cholesterol and insulin resistance homa-ir in pregnant women with gdm were subjected to a random-effects model meta-analysis using revman 5.1 the cochrane collaboration copenhagen denmark 2014. treatment effects and 95 ci were calculated using the mean difference md.

however increased insulin resistance combined with an inability to secrete the additional insulin required to maintain glucose homeostasis can result in the development of gestational diabetes mellitus gdm in the mother and macrosomia in the baby.gdm is defined as the development of glucose intolerance with first onset during pregnancy .

the following search terms were usedpregnan  or gestation  or matern  or obstetric  or expectan  or gestational diabetes or gestational diabetes mellitus probiotic  or lactobacill  or bacteria  or ferment  or microorganism  or acidophilus or streptococc  and glucose or blood glucose or insulin or hba1c or birth weight or metabol  or intervention  or pharmaceutical interventionlimit 1 to year '2001-2017' limit 2 to humans limit 3 exclude males and non-pregnant subjects.

each capsule contained l. salivarius ucc118 1 x 109 cfug- c-peptide total cholesterol- crp- triglyceride ldl cholesterol- hdl cholesterol - gestational weight gainrct randomised controlled trial gdm gestational diabetes mellitus homa-ir score homeostatic model of assessment of insulin resistance hs-crp high sensitivity c-reactive protein hdl cholesterol high density lipoprotein ldl cholesterol low density lipoprotein hba1c glycosylated haemoglobin n number of participants randomised significantly lower than that in the comparison control group after intervention significantly higher than that in the comparison control group after intervention no significant difference between the probiotic-supplemented and control groups after intervention.all of the studies included in the present review had a low risk of bias as assessed using the cochrane collaboration risk of bias tool table .

use of metformin earlier in pregnancy predicts supplemental insulin therapy in women with gestational diabetes.

61-3-9902-4295 received 4 april 2017 accepted 29 april 2017 published 5 may 2017abstract the metabolic effects of probiotic administration in women with gestational diabetes mellitus gdm is unknown.

a study conducted in 256 pregnant women with normal glucose tolerance found significant reductions in fbg insulin concentrations and insulin resistance following probiotic supplementation potentially reducing participants' gdm risk .

the metabolic benefits of probiotics may be strain specific so the optimal species dose and duration of treatment in gdm requires further elucidation.conclusionsthe present review found that while probiotic supplementation resulted in a significant reduction in insulin resistance in pregnant women with gdm there was no significant effect on fasting blood glucose or ldl-cholesterol levels.

2016 iran n 64 pregnant women with gdm mean age intervention 28.1 years control 26.5 years mean bmi intervention 31.4 kgm2control 29.9 kgm2iran n 82 pregnant women with gdm mean age intervention 32.4 years control31.9 years mean bmi intervention26.8 kgm2 control 27.4 kgm2parallel rct double-blindedparallel rct double-blindedrandom assignment to 8-week probiotic capsule with dietary advice or placebo capsule with dietary advice.

trials were included if they were published in english utilized an rct study design involved human participants diagnosed with gdm by ogtt and if at least one group of participants were randomized to receive a dietary probiotic supplement for a period of 6-8 weeks.studies in patients with pre-existing conditions such as type 1 diabetes type 2 diabetes or gastrointestinal pathologies were considered beyond the scope of this review and were therefore excluded.

placenta 2015 36 101-114.  bellamy l. casas j.p. hingorani a.d. williams d. type 2 diabetes mellitus after gestational diabetes a systematic review and meta-analysis.

further high quality studies of longer duration are required to determine the safety optimal dose and ideal bacterial composition of probiotics before their routine use can be recommended in this patient group.keywords probiotics gut microbiota gestational diabetes mellitus pregnancy insulin resistanceintroductionthe gut microbiota is a collective term used to refer to the microorganisms colonizing the human gastrointestinal tract .

barker m. winter m. petocz p. brand-miller j.c. can a low-glycemic index diet reduce the need for insulin in gestational diabetes mellitus a randomized trial.

metformin versus insulin for the treatment of gestational diabetes.

