thus beneficial effects might be mediated by specific taxa.keywords gut microbiota type 2 diabetes antidiabetic drugs metformin incretinsintroductionthe gut microbiota refers to the trillions of microbes living in our guts and can be considered a separate endocrine organ .

a-gi alpha-glucosidase inhibitor dpp-4i dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor glp-1 ra glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist tzd thiazolidinedione h  human studies a  animal studies.the effects of antidiabetic treatments on gut microbiota compositionthe relationship between diseases such as metabolic syndrome obesity or t2d and gut microbiota composition has been extensively reviewed elsewhere ex -.

furthermore some beneficial actions but also side-effects of metformin are thought to be mediated by gut microbiota .in rodents metformin has been shown to modify gut microbiota composition and diversity but in a diet-dependent manner .

in order to increase the beneficial effects of incretins two categories of incretin-based drugs have been developed i glp-1 receptor agonists glp-1 ra and ii dpp-4 inhibitors dpp-4i.even though this section focuses on the effects of incretin-based drugs on gut microbiota it is worth mentioning that gut microbiota fermentation products also influence incretin secretion.

note that in this study the dpp-4i saxagliptin was able to decrease the relative abundance of only one phylotype associated with weight gain the genus candidatus arthromitus .currently only few studies show the actions of glp-1 ra on gut microbiota and we could not find any data on other glp-1 ra such as exenatide dulaglutide albiglutide or lixisenatide.dpp-4 inhibitorsamongst dpp-4i sitagliptin was shown to restore the gut microbiota structure at the phylum level in diabetic-induced rats without significant modifications in body weight.

revieweffects of antidiabetic drugs on gut microbiota compositionsophie a. montandon and francois r. jornayvaz service of endocrinology diabetes hypertension and nutrition geneva university hospitals rue gabrielle-perret-gentil 4 1205 geneva switzerland  correspondence francois.jornayvazhcuge.ch tel.

41-22-372-9302received 1 september 2017 accepted 26 september 2017 published 30 september 2017abstract gut microbiota forms a catalog of about 1000 bacterial species which mainly belong to the firmicutes and bacteroidetes phyla.

it is becoming clear that gut microbiota is playing a prevalent role in pathologies such as metabolic syndrome type 2 diabetes t2d inflammatory and bowel diseases.

in this review we aim to cover the current knowledge about the effects of antidiabetic drugs on gut microbiota diversity and composition as well as the potential beneficial effects mediated by specific taxa.

the composition and richness of the gut microbiota depends on the symbiotic relationship with the host.

moreover one main function of gut microbiota is to breakdown non-digestible carbohydrates into short-chain fatty acids scfa mostly acetate propionate and butyrate.

consequently gut microbiota contributes to a broader metabolic potential for the host .

albeit the side effect of gut microbiota is the induction of low-grade inflammation mainly through the innate immune system and the pattern recognition receptors prrs .

because of the interactions between gut microbiota and host physiology it is becoming evident that the gut and its associated bacteria play a prevalent role in diseases and especially in metabolic syndrome .

in this review we will focus on gut dysbiosis associated to obesity and t2d and the effects of currently used non-insulin antidiabetic drugs on gut microbiota.

