lactis bb-12 reportedly decrease the amount of plaque without affecting the microbiota 31. supplementation with lactobacillus reuteri dsm 17938 and pta 5239 for 12 weeks induces a shift in the microbiota compositionof tooth biofilm however the biological relevance of this microbial shift has not yet been elucidated 32. to the best of our knowledge the present study is the first to use 16s rrna gene high-throughput sequencing to demon- strate improvements in the microbiota of supragingival plaque and tongue coating through long-term ingestion of food.in the present clinical study we collected tongue coating and supragingival plaque not subgingival plaque and saliva.

s2 suggesting that the compositions of supra- gingival plaque and tongue coating microbiota differ.variablen 14 17n 14 20 age years mean - sd85.9 - 6.780.4 - 6.4 malefemale413812edentulousdentate413317 remaining teeth mean - sd10.8 - 8.813.5 - 10.5 oral health-related variablemean - sdo'leary's pcr 72.9 - 27.760.0 - 31.4ppd mm3.3 - 0.83.5 - 0.7bopss  of teeth52.1 - 35.034.5 - 32.0 total vscsp in oral air ng10 ml1.6 - 2.72.5 - 2.9 o'leary's plaque control record indicator of plaque accumulation- probing pocket depth indicator of severity of periodontal diseasess- bleeding on probing indicator of gingival inflammationpvolatile sulfur compounds main components of oral malodor.the composition of the microbiota at the phylum level did not change markedly after 4 and 8 weeks of ingesting the placebo and test tablets.changes in the relative abundance of bacterial speciesalthough there was no significant change at the phylum level the relative abundance of several bacterial species changed significantly between the baseline and 8 weeks.

27. bacteria in supragingival plaque have been implicated in periodontal disease such as gingival inflammation and bacteria in tongue coating have been identified as a major source of oral malodor 28. therefore the compositions of the microbiota of supragingival plaque and tongue coating need to be examined in more detail to enable evaluation of their effects on oral health.in both supragingival plaque and tongue coating in the test group most bacterial species that decreased or increased significantly were gram-negative and -positive respectively.

these results are consistent with the findings of a previous large-scale clinical study in which less a-diversity of the salivary microbiota was associated with better conditions for oral health such as a lower plaque index less gingival bleeding and shallower periodontal pockets 16. in the present study the diversity indices of microbiota of supragingival plaque were significantly lower in the test than in the placebo group at 8 weeks suggesting that long-term ingestion of the test tablets suppresses increases in microbial diversity of supragingival plaque related to deterioration in oral conditions.repeated usage of antibiotics is not recommended because of potential issues associated with microbial substitution 6. we confirmed that the test tablets did not induce increases in the relative abundance of opportunistic bacteria or rate of detection of candida sp.

decreases in the total relative abundance of gram-negative organisms in supragingival plaque and tongue coating correlated with improvements in assessed variables related to oral health such as oral malodor and plaque accumulation.

the number of samples of supragingival plaque and tongue coating are summa- rized in supplemental table s1.microbiota composition at the phylum levelthe 16s rrna gene amplicon analysis identified a total of 1012766 and 1302024 high-quality paired sequences obtained from 84 samples of supragingival plaque and103 samples of tongue coating respectively with 12056.73400.0 and 12641.03322.6 average sd reads per sample respectively.

these were assigned 985 and 1034 otus respectively.the phyla composing the microbiota in supragingival plaque and tongue coating are shown in figure 2. it was found that the following five phyla predominated in the microbiota in supragingival plaque and tongue coating firmicutes bacteroidetes fusobacteria proteobacteria and actinobacteria.

although supragingival plaque and tongue coating had similar compositions at the phylum level significant differences between supragingival plaque and tongue coating were identified by unifrac principal coordinate analysis pcoa supplemental fig.

unifrac pcoa showed that the microbial communities are different in supragingival plaque and tongue coating which is consistent with previous findings that supragingival plaque communities differ more than microbial com- munities from seven other oral sites including tongue coating.

a previous study suggested that long-term ingestion of lf 300 mg day and lpo 5.4 mgday reduces the number of fusobacterium in subgingival plaque 33. therefore we consider the lf and the lpo-containing tablets our participants took to exert some effects on the microbiota of subgingival plaque.

in this randomized double-blinded placebo- controlled study the effects of long-term ingestion of lf and lpo-containing tablets on the microbiota of supragingival plaque and tongue coating were assessed.

most of the bacterial species in supragingival plaque and tongue coating that exhibited significant decreases in the test group were gram-negative bacteria including periodontal pathogens.

furthermore there was significantly less microbiota diversity in supragingival plaque at 8 weeks in the test group than in the placebo group and low microbiota diversity correlated with improvements in assessed variables related to oral health.

these results suggest that lf and lpo-containing tablets promote a shift from a highly diverse and gram-negative-dominated to a gram-positive-dominated community in the microbiota of supragingival plaque and tongue coating.

tel th81 46 252 3045 fax th81 46 252 3017 email received 15 may 2017 revised 21 august 2017 accepted 1 september 2017.list of abbreviations bop bleeding on probing lf lactoferrin lpo lactoperoxidase o'leary's pcr o'leary's plaque control record otu operational taxonomic unit pcoa principal coordinate analysis pd phylogenetic distance ppd probing pocket depth vsc volatile sulfur compound.paper by the research science and therapy committee of the american academy of periodontology 6. therefore development of safe and daily methods for oral care is needed to enable maintenance of healthy conditions and microbial homeostasis particularly in older individuals.lf and lpo are glycoproteins found in saliva milk and other exocrine secretions 7-9. lf has been shown to exert in vitro antimicrobial effects against oral pathogens such as porphyromonas gingivalis and antibiofilm effects against p. gingivalis and prevotella intermedia 7. lpo catalyzes the hydrogen peroxide- dependent oxidation of thiocyanate scn- to hypoth- iocyanite oscn- which exerts bactericidal effects on periodontal pathogenic bacteria 10 and inhibitory effects on bacterial lyases related to the production of oral malodor 11. because they have these properties lf and lpo have been used in oral health care products and foods 12 13. morita et al.

