for comparison of the post-weaning energy intake and weight gain differences between standard and hf diet groups one-way analysis of variance anova followed by tukey's test was used.resultsmilk compositionexposure of rat dams to hf diet resulted in significantly-increased milk fat concentration on postpartum day 11. comparing control dams with hf dams the mean values of milk fat concentration expressed in g100 ml milk were 13.0-0.58 vs. 18.3-0.92 g100 ml respectively p0.001.during lactation period in hf diet-receiving dams as compared with those fed the control diet significantly increased mean energy intake 213.5-8.7 kcalday vs. 168.5-4.1 kcalday p0.01 was recorded respectively.effect of pre-weaning dietary manipulationthere were no significant differences in the average body weight between pups of control and hf dams on postpartum day 1 7.6-0.13 vs. 7.6-0.22 respectively.

after weaning male pups nursed by control dams continued on a standard diet cc or hf diet c-hf while offspring nursed by hf dams continued on hf diet hf or standard diet hf-c. the numbers of bacteroidesprevotella bac and lactobacillusenterococcus lab in the gut were determined by fish technique.

due to these changes higher numbers of lactobacillusenterococcus lab and lowered number of bacteroidesprevotella bac were found in the jejunum and colon in hf rats table 1. the previously acquired differences in body fat accretion intestinal ap activity as well as microbial composition persisted between controls versus hf rats until the end of the experiment on day 40 tables 2 and 3. moreover in the hf rats in comparison with the standard diet-receiving rats c significantly higher food intake expressed in kcalday was recorded during the post-weaning period table 2.table 1. somatic and intestinal parameters in 20-day-old male pups nursed by control or hf diet dams.controlhfvalues are means - sem 8 animalsgroup.

this is in contrast to another study where after switching to normal chow feeding the gut microbiota in the dio group soon moved back to control values and differences in the diversity overall structure and composition of the gut microbiota were not recorded between the two groups zhang et al.

half of the rats 10 nursed by hf dams continued on hf diet hf whereas the other half 10 were given access to standard pellet diet only hf-c. the animals from all four groups were individually housed in plexiglass cages under the same conditions water temperature relative humidity lightdark regime as before weaning.

it has been found that colonization of adult germ-free mice with microbiota from the distal intestine of conventionally raised mice resulted in increase in body fat content despite reduced food intake.physiological research  issn 0862-8408 print  issn 1802-9973 online 2017 institute of physiology of the czech academy of sciences prague czech republic fax 420 241 062 164 e-mail the same study also revealed that the intestinal microbiota promotes absorption of monosaccharides from the gut lumen and de novo hepatic lipogenesis backhed et al.

2012 sefcikova and racek 2016. besides this function apalso plays a role in the maintenance of normal gut microbial homeostasis malo et al.

2014. with respect to the gut microflora it was previously reported that mice deficient in the brush-border intestinal alkaline phosphatase enzyme displayed dramatically fewer and also different types of aerobic and anaerobic microbes in their stools compared with their wild-type littermates malo et al.

2015. moreover a previous study performed on a humanized mouse model germ-free mice received human gut microbiota indicated that switching from a low-fat plant polysaccharide-rich diet to a high-fat high-sugar western diet changed the microbiota within a single day turnbaugh et al.

to induce postnatal over- nutrition or normal nutrition in their offspring rat mothers were divided after parturition into two dietary groups a a control c group with free access to a standard laboratory diet laboratory diet m1 ricmanice czech republic containing 3.2 kcalg with26.3  energy as protein 9.5  as fat and 64.2  as carbohydrate and b a high-fat diet hf group which were given access to the same standard diet ad libitum but were additionally given access to a high-fatenergy diet high-energy nutritional liquid product ensure plus containing 1.5 kcalml with 16.7  energy as protein 30  energy as fat and 53.3  energy as carbohydrate.the weaned male rats day 21 from control and hf mothers were randomly divided into two dietary groups.

whereas during the suckling as well as pre- weaning periods hf pups showed accelerated growth resulting in significantly higher p0.001 body weight and weight gain compared with the controls table 1 in the subsequent post-weaning period however these body weight differences disappeared table 2. in hf animals epididymal and perirenal fat pads expressed in g and in  body weight significantly exceeded the values recorded in control rats on day 20 figs 1a and 1b.

differences between cc vs. hf groups  p0.01  p0.001 cc vs. c-hf groups a p0.05 c p0.001 and hf vs. hf-c groups  p0.05  p0.01 p0.001 by tukey's multiple comparison test after two-way anova.fig.

differences between cc vs. hf groups  p0.01  p0.001 cc vs. c-hf groups a p0.05 c p0.001 and hf vs. hf-c groups  p0.01 by tukey's multiple comparison test after two-way anova.effect of post-weaning dietary manipulationhigh-fat diet feeding after weaning resulted in higher fat pad weights expressed as the percentage of body weight in c-hf rats table 2. increased energy intake by 25  in these rats led to significantly-elevated alkaline phosphatase activity in the jejunum.

p0.05 as well as to significantly decreased food intake kcalday at about 31  as compared to hf rats table 2. moreover in these hf-c rats decreased alkaline phosphatase activity in jejunal brush border bound enterocytes was recorded as compared to the hf group.

hf feeding led to an early appearance of diversity in development of gut microbial composition.

