statis- tical comparisons of the results were performed using an analysis of variance anova in spss 13.0 p  0.05 was considered statistically significant.abbreviationsanova analysis of variance d low melanin dose group 120 mgkg dhi 5 6-dihydroxyindole dhica 5 6-dihydroxyinodole-2-carboxylic acidg high melanin dose group 480 mgkg ibd inflammatory bowel diseases icr institute of cancer research msmi sepiella maindroni inkotus operational taxonomic units s normal group z medium melanin dose group 240 mgkgacknowledgementsthe authors are grateful to xiong-fei ji yi-meng yuan ke-er yan meng han yong-kuan ren key laboratory of the ministry of education for applied marine biotechnology ningbo university for continuous technical advice and helpful discussion.

melanin originates from different natural sources and has been reported to be an excellent scavenger of free radicals squid ink melanin is the most typically used melanin.sepiella maindroni is one of the most popular dietary cephalopod species in the area of china coast.

the final melanin pellet was freeze-dried for ap- proximately 48 h to get crude melanin.

the final melanin pellet was lyophi- lized to get intact pure sepia ink melanin.

further studies are also needed to deter- mine if squid ink melanin can ameliorate the internal imbalance caused by d-galactose treatment.conclusionsmsmi had no significant effect on the structure of intes- tinal flora in mice.

antioxidant effects of melanin from sepiella maindronion subacute aged model mice.

firmicutes and bacteroidetes are the dominant taxa in mice and their ratio fb in the s d z and g groups was 0.191 0.285 0.163 and 0.381 respectively.class-level comparison of the fecal microbiota in the mice we calculated distribution at the level of class according to bray-curtis distance.

previous research has shown that the firmicutes bacteroides ratiois positively correlated with the obese phenotype inde- pendent of diet turnbaugh also compared the gut microbiota of lean mice and mice with diet-induced obesity and found that an increase in firmicutes abun- dance was associated with diet-induce obesity  in our study msmi increased the proportion of firmicutes and decreased the bacteroidetes proportion compared with the control.

the chow met the requirements of the chinese national standards.mice were randomly assigned to four groups of five mice each normal control group s low msmi dose medium msmi dose and high msmi dose mice in every group were co-housed together with the same condition such as feeding the same batch of diet and water.

bmc microbiology 2017 17147doi 10.1186s12866-017-1058-7effects of melanin from sepiella maindroni ink msmi on the intestinal microbiome of micehui dong12 weiwei song12  chunlin wang12 changkao mu12 and ronghua li12backgroundcephalopods could protect themselves with the ejection of dark ink.

reported that sepia ink could prevent kidney dysfunction induced by bile duct ligation and the invasive of pulmonary aspergillosis cephalopod ink is a mixture of the co-secretions from the ink sac including glycosaminoglycan-like polysaccha- rides a tyrosinase and melanin.

data from our previous study revealed that melanin from sepiella maindroni ink had anti-aging and immunomod- ulatory effects.

however some scholars have found that cephalopod ink has antimicro- bial properties against a diversity of organisms mean- while less attention has been paid to the interactions between microbes and melanin.

the gut microbiota is a functional organ thus clarifying the link between func- tional components and gut microbiota will benefit the theoretical basis for and utilization of functional foods the specific composition and relative abundance of the gut microbiota which is potentially a major modula- tor of host metabolism drives the interaction between functional foods and host health therefore under- standing the impacts of melanin on the gut microbiota is essential.we used high-throughput sequencing of variable regions of 16s ribosomal dna to study the effects of msmi on the microbiota.

the degree of variation in the gut microbiota changed with oral melanin concentration.

