At the phyla level compared to rats in SHAM group rats in the OVX group had a higher ratio of phyla Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes in the gut at the genus level four differential gut microbiota IncertaeSedis Anaerovorax Anaerotruncus and Helicobacter between SHAM and OVX groups were found whereas seven differential gut microbiota Serratia Anaerotruncus Shewanella Pseudomonas Papillibacter Exiguobacterium and Helicobacter between OVX and CUR groups were found.

In conclusion estrogen deficiency induced by ovariectomy caused changes in the distribution and structure of intestinal microflora in rats and curcumin could partially reverse changes in the diversity of gut microbiota.Keywords menopause ovariectomy rat curcumin gut microbiotaIntroductionMenopause is a natural process that all women will go through usually accompanied by some physiological and psychological changes including bone loss weight gain depression nervousness etc.

Further research on the relationship between menopause curcumin and Helicobacter in the gut is necessary.ConclusionsThis study is the first to reveal the effect of curcumin on the diversity of gut microbiota in a menopausal rat model using high-throughput sequencing technology.

The results of this study suggested that estrogen deficiency induced by ovariectomy-caused changes in the distribution and structure of intestinal microflora in a rat and that curcumin could partially reverse changes in the diversity of the gut microbiota.

At the phyla level compared to sham rats model rats had a higher ratio of phyla Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes in the gut which may lead to overweight rats at the genus level curcumin could lower the increasing abundance of the genera Anaerotruncus and Helicobacter in the gut of model rats.Acknowledgments This study was supported by Beijing Natural Science Foundation No.

We speculated that the increased FirmicutesBacteroidetes ratio plays an important role in overweight OVX rats.At the genus level compared to OVX group rats the abundance of IncertaeSedis Anaerovorax Anaerotruncus and Helicobacter in the gut of the SHAM group rats and the abundance of Serratia Anaerotruncus Shewanella Pseudomonas Papillibacter Exiguobacterium and Helicobacter in the gut of the CUR group rats changed significantly.

The protocol involving animals in this study was authorized by The Institutional Ethics Committee of China Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences Approval number 2016-017.

The V3-V4 PCR products were sequenced by Illumina MiSeq Illumina San Diego CA USA.Statistical AnalysisPart of quantitative data weights of bodies and uteri and level of estradiol in serum are reported as the mean - standard deviation the proportion of gut microbiota is reported as the mean - standard error.

The gut microbiota shapes intestinal immune responses during health and disease.

However the effects of curcumin on gut microfloral communities of ovariectomized OVX rats remains unclear.

