The activities of ACP LZM and C3 were significantly higher when fulvic acid levels were greater than 1.0 A C D P  0.05 while ALP and IgM activities were significantly higher when fulvic acid levels were greater than 0.5 B E P  0.05.Intestinal microflora analysisIntestinal microflora samples from the control group and the group displaying the most optimal growth rate were analyzed to investigate the influence of fulvic acid on intestinal microflora.

However no difference was observed between the control and fulvic acid-treated groups with respect to amylase activity C P  0.05.It was also observed that SOD CAT and T-AOC activities were significantly increased following supplementation with increasing fulvic acid levels A B E. Furthermore antioxidant enzyme activities of loach in fulvic acid-added groups were significantly higher than those of the control group P  0.05.

The extent of this stimulation can be significant depending upon the species analyzed the culture medium utilized and the environment that is sampled.Common pathogenic bacteria such as Serratia Acinetobacter Aeromonas and Edwardsiella were less abundant in the 1.5 fulvic acid added group while beneficial bacteria such as Lactobacillus were markedly more abundant in the 1.5 fulvic acid added group.

The following equations were obtained for SGR y 0.061x2 0.2006x 1.8155 R2 0.8004 RSD 0.118 .Protease activity increased with concomitant increases in fulvic acid levels and the activity was significantly higher compared to that of the control group when fulvic acid supplementation levels were greater than 1.0 A P  0.05.

Lipase activity also increased slightly with increasing fulvic acid levels and the associated ac- tivity was significantly increased in group F1.5 compared with the control group B P  0.05.

Rarefaction curves for the Shannon index tended to approach a flat level from less than 5000 tags per sample D. The Shannon index was higher in group F1.5 compared with the control group which indicated higher community di- versity in the former group.

The Simpson index was higher in the control group than in group F1.5 suggesting that there was reduced com- munity diversity in the control group E. This result was in accordance with the Shannon index estimate.The most abundant OTUs within the two groups are shown in .

Conversely Variovorax was more abundant in the F1.5 group compared with the control group.Bacteria pertaining to Firmicutes were more prevalent in the F1.5 group compared with the control group.

eFull length articleEffects of fulvic acid on growth performance and intestinal health of juvenile loach Paramisgurnus dabryanus SauvageYang Gao   Jie He   Zhuliu He  Zhiwei Li  Bo Zhao  Yi Mu  Jeong-Yeol Lee Zhangjie Chu  a Fishery School Zhejiang Ocean University Zhoushan 316022 Chinab Marine Fishery Research Institute of Zhejiang Province Zhoushan 316021 Chinac Department of Aquaculture and Aquatic Science Kunsan National University Gunsan 573-701 South Koreaa r t i c l e i n f o Article historyReceived 2 October 2016 Received in revised form 29 December 2016Accepted 6 January 2017Available online 9 January 2017KeywordsParamisgurnus dabryanusFulvic acid Intestinal microflora Antioxidant Immunitya b s t r a c t A 60-day feeding trial was conducted to determine the effect of dietary fulvic acid supplements on in- testinal digestive activity enzymatic analysis antioxidant activity immune enzyme activity and microflora composition of juvenile loach initial weight of 6.2 - 0.1 g reared in experimental aquaria.

The optimal dietary fulvic requirement for maximal growth of juvenile loach is 16.4 g per kg of the diet based on the quadratic regression analysis of specific growth rate against dietary fulvic acid levels.

