although expression of slc13a5 in inflammatory cells such as monocytes has not been reported it has been reported that exogenous citrate modu- lates liposaccharide-induced monocyte inflammatory responses in cell culture  raising the question of the role of exogenous citrate in inflammation.we recently addressed this issue by supplementing citrate in the drinking water of mice fed a standard diet .

moreover mito- chondrial citrate carrier and acly expression is upregulated bylps in a nf-kb-dependent fashion increasing citrate influx to the cytosol .furthermore citrate may also have epigenetic effects on mac- rophages.

despite the well-described fate of endogenous citrate the fate of ingested citrate remains largely unexplored.

citrate enters the cells through the slc13a5 citrate transporter encoded by the mindy mammalian i'm not dead yet gene .

potentiation of lps effects by citrate could be blocked by tca an acly competitive inhibitor suggesting the participation of cytosolic citrate metabolism in this effect.

furthermore citrate car- rier acetylation and inhibition strongly decreases lps-induced inflammatory response .finally the contribution of citrate to obesity and its related comorbidities can be inferred indirectly by pharmacological data.

considering their potential to predispose individuals to develop obesity and metabolic syndrome their use should be taken with caution or maybe revisited.keywords food additives type 2 diabetes metabolic syndrome metainflammation microbiota citrate immunometabolismintroductionobesity and metabolic syndromeobesity has reached worldwide epidemic proportions in the last decades.

the food and drug administration fda for example does not pose a limit for citric acid addition to foods or drinks.apart from being a food additive citrate is also a metabolite involved in carbohydrate and lipid metabolisms.

in situations of anabolism as after meals citrate is formed in the mitochondria and exported to the cytosol.

cytosolic citrate is metabolized to acetyl-coa and oxaloacetate by the enzyme atpcitrate lyase acly .

moreover expression of this citrate transporter is upregulated in the liver of animals submitted to a high-fat high-sucrose diet .

since acly is also highly expressed in the liver  it is reasonable to assume that food-derived citrate may contribute to postprandial lipid and cholesterol synthesis.

this suggests that citrate supplementation did not contrib- ute significantly to de novo lipid synthesis at least in the medium- term duration 75 days of our experiment.

we currently do not know how citrate supplementation may affect lipid metabolism in the long term.

mice receiving citrate plus sucrose showed higher fasting glycemia and diminished glucose tolerance.

