in the 2 batches this bacterial group was mainly composed of the genera car- nobacterium including c. maltaromaticum c. inhibens and c. gallinarum vp 35.5 map 54.5 vagococcus including v. teuberi and v. flu- vialis vp 16.6 map 7.6 lactococcus vp 9.6 map 8.3 and leuconostoc including l. gelidum vp 13.3 map 0.7 and to a lesser extent the genus enterococcus including e. sulfureus vp 1.0 map 0.9. in both conditions pseudomonas sp.

however despite these impacts on thesensory quality these fillets remained acceptable throughout the sto- rage period data not shown.table 1score and sensory criteria evaluated during the storage under ice 0 degc of whole red drums.criteriascore0123456operculumcolorsilvery slightly colored with red or brownsilvery slightly colored with red or brownsilvery slightly colored with red or brownbrowning and blood seepage around eyeyellowishyellowexcessive yellowperitoneumintegrityintactadhesionno adhesioncrackeddeterioratedlysedtotally lysedfleshpre-rigorfirmelasticspringysoftflaccidvery flaccidbelly cavitywallintactintactsoftfragileperforatedperforatedperforatedcolumn breaks andcolumn breaks andadhesionless adhesionno adhesionflesh comes offflesh comes offgray criteria indicate the unpleasant effects found at the rejection time day 15.chemical analysesthe ph value of fresh flesh was equal to 5.96 - 0.01. the flesh of whole fish slightly alkalinized with a final ph of 6.10 - 0.07 while the ph of vp products fell to a value of 5.87 - 0.07 at day 15 data not shown significant difference with whole fish.

effect of vacuum and modified atmosphere packaging on the microbiological chemical and sensory properties of tropical red drum sciaenops ocellatus fillets stored at 4 degcadele silbande sandra adenet christine chopin josiane cornet juliette smith-ravinkatia rochefort francoise leroia pole agroalimentaire regional de martinique parm impasse petit-morne ndeg 375 97232 lamentin martiniqueb ifremer laboratoire ecosystemes microbiens et molecules marines pour les biotechnologies em3b rue de l'ile d'yeu bp 21105 44300 nantes francec universite des antilles departement scientifique inter facultaire dsi ea929 aihp-geode groupe biospheres bp 7209 97275 schoelcher martiniquea r t i c l e i n f o keywords seafood biogenic amine vpmap ngs16s rrna genea b s t r a c t aims the effect of vacuum vp - 4 degc and co2n2-atmosphere map - 4 degc packaging on the quality of red drum fillets compared with whole gutted iced fish was investigated.methods and results a metagenomic approach bacterial enumeration and isolation biochemical and sensory analyses were carried out.

developed a multisensory system integrating the amount of biogenic amines to assess the fish freshness.the main bacteria present in vp and map packed fish fillets are h2s-producing bacteria including shewanella putrefaciens and photobacterium phosphoreum pseudomonas sp.

the second was to monitor in detail the quantitative and qualitative evolution of the microbiota of vp and map fillets using microbiological culture-dependent and culture-independent techni- ques chemical biochemical and sensory analyses.materials and methodsred drum sampling and storage conditionsfirst trial comparison of whole fish and packed filletsred drum sciaenops ocellatus provided from a fish farm located in the center of the atlantic coast of martinique 14deg41'2.4''n 60deg54'7.8''w.

nine whole fish approximate weight of 1 kg per fish and fifteen fillets with skin ap- proximate weight of 250-300 g per fillet were received at the parm laboratory 6 h after harvesting.the whole fish were stored in a cooler box by alternating a layer of fish placed on the belly with a layer of flake ice and kept in a cold room 4 degc.

bars represent standard deviations.table 3sequencing information reads otus genera and sequence-read counts of bacterial genera identified by illumina miseq sequencing for fresh fillets and each storage condition vpand map 4 degc after 8 15 22 and 29 days.a vp vacuum packed fillets stored at 4 degcb map modified atmosphere 50 co2-50 n2 packed fillets stored at 4 degc.have a higher count of bacteria than whole fish and a similar or inferior shelf life  .

the organoleptic rejection of whole fish was observed at day 15 whereas vp and map fillets appeared unacceptable only after 29 days.

at day 0 tvbn con- centrations of whole fish and fillets vp and map were 22.0 - 4.6 mg-n 100 g- 1 and 24.0 - 2.6 mg-n 100 g- 1 respec- tively.

2.2 to 3.4 log cfu g- 1 at day 15. all bacterial groupsgenera grew faster and reached higher counts in vp products than in whole fish and map fillets significant difference p  0.05. at the end of storage counts of lab brochothrix and en- terobacteriaceae were slightly higher than in iced whole fish.comparison of vacuum and modified atmosphere packed filletssensory analysesthe results of the organoleptic evaluation performed at the parm laboratory are presented in .

this plane was chosen because the third axis 15.1 related to the plant characteristic enabled a better discrimination of the vp and map fillets than the second one 19.1. the first axis 45.0 discriminated unspoiled samples days 0 and 8 with fish and marine characteristics left side of pca from more spoiled samples days  8 with slight off-odors such as sourfermented and buttercaramel right side.

the shelf-life of vp and map fillets was almost double that of whole fish.

peaks were detected with a uv-detector spd-20a shimadzu oper- ating at 254 nm.isolation purification and identification of bacterial isolatesin the second trial twenty-two bacteria were isolated at day 0 fresh fillet and at the sensory rejection time day 29 of vp and map red drum fillets.

a significance level of 5 was used.resultscomparison of whole fish and packed filletsorganoleptic inspectionat day 0 the whole red drums possessed all the characteristics of fresh fish freshness index  0 .

may explain the very weak formation of volatile bases in the vp and map fillets  .the significant production of cadaverine putrescine and to a lesser extent tyramine could be a good indicator of the spoilage of packed red drum fillets during storage.

