.queipo-ortuno m. i. boto-ordonez m. murri m. gomez-zumaquero j. m. clemente- postigo m. estruch r. ... tinahones f. j.

.queipo-ortuno m. i. seoane l. m. murri m. pardo m. gomez-zumaquero j. m. cardona f. ... tinahones f. j.

plasma adiponectin was higher in the groups supplemented with o-3 pufas than in the std group while this difference was significant only for animals supple- mented with both o-3 pufas and gse.urine nitrites were similar between the groups and slightly higher p  0.123 in animals fed o-3 pufas compared to those in the std group .table 3cdv risk factors in rats supplemented with o-3 pufas andor gse for 24 weeks.stdo-3gseo-3  gseproportions of fecal bacterial populationsthe proportions of the major bacterial phyla  and selected probiotics  were determined in fecal dna.

.lluis l. taltavull n. munoz-cortes m. sanchez-martos v. romeu m. giralt m. ... nogues m. r. 2013. protective effect of the omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids eicosapentaenoic aciddocosahexaenoic acid 11 ratio on cardiovascular disease risk markers in rats.

.yang t. santisteban m. m. rodriguez v. li e. ahmari n. carvajal j. m. ...mohamadzadeh m. 2015. gut dysbiosis is linked to hypertension.

the percentages of bacteroidetes and firmicutes were similar in the groups supplemented with o-3 pufas andor gse a b.the population of lactobacillales was significantly p  0.01 lower in the o-3 group than in the std group while supplementation with proanthocyanidins gse and o-3  gse groups did not modify the proportion of lactobacilli a. the percentage of bifidobacter- iales was similar in all the groups d. the proportion of l. acidophilus was lower p  0.001 vs std in animals supplementedmmolllmmollplasma adiponectin mgmlurine nitrites ngml21.7a 2.930.0ab 2.122.0a 2.832.1bc 1.51.30.32.50.91.50.12.10.2with o-3 pufas independently of the presence of proanthocyanidins b. the proportions of l. plantarum c and b. longum e were lower p  0.05 vs std in animals supplemented with gse while the combination of gse with o-3 pufas did not affect the levels of these populations.means with different letters differ p  0.05. comparisons were performed using one- way anova and tukey's post-hoc tests.fig.

the animals supplemented only with o-3 pufas showed increased scfa content with respect to the other groups with the concentration of acetic acid being significantly higher p  0.05. the valeric acid concentration was significantly p  0.05 lower in the groups supplemented with gse.discussionthe present study focuses on the effect of the combination of o-3 pufas epadha 11 and proanthocyanidins mostly oligomers con- sisting of 2 to 4 --epicatechin units in gse on gut health-promoting commensal bacteria and the possible influence of their combination on the functional effects of o-3 pufas on cvd risk factors.

taltavull n. munoz-cortes m. lluis l. jove m. fortuno a. molinar-toribio e. ...nogues m. r. 2014. eicosapentaenoic aciddocosahexaenoic acid 11 ratio improves histological alterations in obese rats with metabolic syndrome.

effects of the combination of o-3 pufas and proanthocyanidins on the gut microbiota of healthy ratssara ramos-romero merce hereu eunice molinar-toribio maria pilar almajano lucia mendez isabel medina nuria taltavull marta romeu maria rosa noguesjosep lluis torresa institute of advanced chemistry of catalonia iqac-csic barcelona spainb chemical engineering department technical university of catalonia barcelona spainc instituto de investigaciones marinas iim-csic vigo spaind faculty of medicine and health science universitat rovira i virgili reus spaina r t i c l e i n f o keywordsmicrobiota proanthocyanidins epadhalactobacillus bifidobacteriuma b s t r a c t o-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids pufas reduce risk factors for cardiovascular diseases cvd and other pathologies that involve low-grade inflammation.

in conclusion while individual supplementations with o-3 pufas or gse modify the populations of lactobacillus bifidobacterium and microbial products scfas their combination maintains the standard proportions of these bacterial subgroups and their function while also providing the cardiovascular benefits of o-3 pufas.introductiono-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids o-3 pufas and polyphenols are bioactive compounds present in common foodstuffs  .

consequently o-3 pufas help maintain the corresponding author at institute of advanced chemistry of catalonia iqac-csic jordi girona 18-26 08034 barcelona spain.e-mail addresses s. ramos-romero m. hereu e. molinar-toribio m.p.

body weight was similar for all groups at the beginning of the experiment 144.0 g sem 2.6. after 24 weeks of the diets the animals supplemented with o-3 pufas had significantly higher p  0.05 body weights o-3 275.7 g sem 9.0 g o-3  gse 275.6 g sem 8.1 than the other groups std 254.4 g sem 5.4 and gse 262.1 g sem 4.5 a. similarly perigonadal fat was significantly higher in animals supplemented with o-3 pufas p  0.01 than in non-supplemented and gse-supplemented rats b.risk factors of cvdblood pressure and plasma total cholesterol hdlc ldlc triglycer- ides and adiponectin were measured after 24 weeks of supplementation .

despite the fact that o-3 pufas reduced feed intake they increased body weight gain in our animals  an effect also detected in normoweight women who consume o-3 pufas .

the weight gain observed in lean animals supplemented with o-3 pufas is in apparent contradiction with the observations of other authors who report the anti-obesogenic effect of o-3 pufas in obese individuals .

combined supplementation with o-3 pufas and gse also counteracted the effect of o-3 pufas on the excreted concentration of acetic acid an scfa product of bacterial metabolism.

