lactobacillus is a dominant and important gut commensal genus present at frequen- cies of up to 109g increased abundance of lactobacillus in the gastrointestinal tract of chickens is considered beneficial for their health and performance certain strains of lactobacillus produce antimicro- bial substances exopolysaccharides and short-chain fatty acids as additional energy sources  b. subtilis csl2 promotes the growth of beneficial lactobacilli as do other types of in-feed probiotics furthermore enterobacteriaceae abundance was re- duced in the bt group after 24 h of salmonella chal- lenge and increased numbers of enterobacteriaceae insc broilers might imbalance the microbiota and thus exert harmful effects on the gut the impact of s. gallinarum and b. subtilis csl2 on the overall compos- ition of the gut microbiota can be detected within 24 h post infection surprisingly in this study salmonella spp.

in previous studies micro- bial shifts were evident after probiotic administration and pathogenic invasion  in-feed administra- tion of e. faecium ncimb 11181 changed the microbial composition in piglets  furthermore pathogen in- fection led to significant alterations in the chicken gut microbiota pathogen infection disrupts gut microbial diversity and overwhelms the microbiota by producing toxins and harmful agents lower microbial diversity indicates a reduced ability of the microbiota to maintain gut homeostasis and resist inva- sion.

in addition the data suggest that b. subtilis csl2 exerts protect- ive effects against s. gallinarum infection by altering the faecal microbiota of broiler chickens.methodsanimals and experimental designa total of 36 ross-308 broiler chickens were bred and divided into the following three groups the control group nc n  12 salmonella-challenged sc n  12 group and bacillus-treated bt n  12 group.

these major bacterial phyla are also major constituents of the gut microbiota of other birds and livestock animals at the 24-h post- salmonella challenge the abundance of proteobacteria was significantly increased and that of firmicutes de- creased in the sc group whereas those in the bt group had recovered to levels similar to the nc group.

the high- est values of both were in the nc group and lowest in the sc group table implying that salmonella infec- tion negatively affects overall microbial diversity.

moreover the find- ings offer significant insights to understand potential mechanisms of salmonella infection and the mode of action of probiotics in broiler chickens.additional filesabbreviationsbt bacillus subtilis csl2-treated dapc discriminant analysis of principal components kegg kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes nc negative control ngs next generation sequencing otu operational taxonomic unit picrust phylogenetic investigation of communities by reconstruction of unobserved states qiime quantitative insights into microbial ecology sc salmonella-challengedsalmonella-infected chickensacknowledgementsnot applicable.fundingthis work was supported by a grant from the next-generation biogreen 21 program pj01115903 rural development administration republic of korea.availability of data and materialsall standard flowgram format .sff files generated by the 454-pyrosequencer containing all raw sequence reads have been deposited at the national center for biotechnology information ncbi sequence read archive sra bioproject accession number prjna327786 86.authors' contributionsjko and eabp performed data collection and drafted the manuscript together.

however previous studies using plating methods 16s rrna gene clone libraries denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and so forth have yielded relatively little information in contrast high-throughput next-generation sequencing ngs methods facilitate rapid quantification and identification of bacterial communities in addition simultan- eous analysis of multiple samples enables a thorough un- derstanding of microbial communities and therefore prediction of the effect of interventions and infections on microbial functions and community diversity this study applied 16s rrna gene sequencing to in- vestigate the composition of the chicken gut micro- biota and the findings suggest a marked effect of s. gallinarum on the overall composition and metabolic functions of the chicken gut microbiota.

journal of animal science and biotechnology 2017 81doi 10.1186s40104-016-0130-8effects of bacillus subtilis csl2 on the composition and functional diversity of the faecal microbiota of broiler chickens challenged with salmonella gallinarumju kyoung oh1 edward alain b. pajarillo1 jong pyo chae1 in ho kim1 dong soo yang2 and dae-kyung kang1backgroundpoultry is one of the most important meat sources for humans due to the increasing demand for food chicken production has increased tremendously in the past few years therefore husbandry and manage- ment are vital for preventing infection and maintaining the health of poultry.

the identi- fication of bacterial otu belonging to neisseriaceae phylum proteobacteria was highly suggestive of mi- crobial clustering and these organisms include several diarrhoea-causing pathogens  these results imply that establishment of salmonella in the gut requires the support of other pathogens or opportunistic bac- teria therein.in this study functional prediction was performed to evaluate and compare the metabolic activities of the mi- crobial communities among broiler groups three metabolic and cellular functions were significantly affected by the administration of b. subtilis csl2 and s. gallinarum infection namely the phosphotransferase system glycan degradation and dna repair mecha- nisms.

no significant differences p  0.05 in alpha diversity were detected between groups using comparealphadiversity.py scriptcomposition of broiler chickens resulting in higher abundance of firmicutes and lower abundance of bacteroidetes and proteobacteria .at the genus level a total of 124 bacterial genera were detected in all broiler samples additional file table s2 which is comparable to other avians .

s1b.effect of salmonella challenge and b. subtilis cls2 administration on microbiota compositionirrespective of salmonella challenge and bacillus supple- mentation the phylum firmicutes showed the highest abundance 80 followed by the phyla bacteroidetes and proteobacteria fig.

in pre- vious reports proteobacteria was highly abundant in salmonella-infected animals  similarly dietary supplementation with probiotics altered the microbialtable 1 pyrosequencing data and diversity indices of the faecal microbiota of broiler chickenslegend nc negative control sc salmonella challenged bt bacillus treated otu operational taxonomic unit pd phylogenetic distance whole treeamean number of raw reads per treatment group.

animal health is closely associated with the status of the gastrointestinal tract whosedisruption or dysbiosis leads to detrimental effects  intestinal homeostasis and functionality are influenced by various factors such as 1 diet and feed additives 2 farm conditions and practices and 3 the resident gut microbiota the microbiota comprises trillions of mi- croorganisms localised primarily at the distal end of the gastrointestinal tract these microbial communities mediate digestion of feedstuff control gut homeostasis and prevent infection.

reduced functional diversity suppresses commensal-microbiota-mediated homeostasis .firmicutes and bacteroidetes comprised the majority of the broiler microbiota at the phylum level these or- ganisms function in energy production and metabolism particularly starch digestion and microbial fermentation the increased abundance of proteobacteria in salmonella-infected broilers suggests gastrointestinal dysbiosis and imbalance.

the supplementation of b. subtilis csl2 significantly chan- ged the microbial diversity and composition by increas- ing the abundance of beneficial microorganisms.

