we found bacteroides enhanced in the fecal microbiota community in gi-fed group was positively correlated with proline r 0.71 a-hydroxyglutaric acid r 0.88 lactic acid r 0.83 2-hydroxybutanoic acid r 0.85. alloprevotella and parabacteroides contained an increased abundance in pf-fed group was positively correlated with succinic acid r 0.77 r 0.89. parasutterella had a decreased abundance in pf-fed group was positively correlated with 912-octadecadienoic acid r 0.73 5-oxoproline r 0.88 octadecanoic acid r 0.98 l-aspartic acid r 0.84. mucispirillum were all positively correlated with proline r  0.97 and 912-octadecadienoic acid r  0.51. mannose was all positively correlated with bacteroides r 0.71 and parasutterella r 0.67. galactose as all positively correlated with lachnospiraceae r 0.79 and alistipes r 0.56. as shown in  the overall correlation analysis showed that the control group was positively correlated with the gipf-fed group r  0.98 .ph and scfa concentrations of colon contentsthe ph levels of the colon contents of gi-fed mice were significantly lower p  0.005 after 2 and 3 weeks of supplementation gi1 and gi2 time points respectively than that observed after 1 week of adaption gi0 time point .

interestingly we observedprotein180180180180fat40404040starch650500500500moisture130130130130gos-75-37.5inulin-75-37.5polydextrose--7537.5insoluble dietary fiber bran--7537.5con control group gi galacto-oligosaccharides inulin group pf polydextrose insoluble dietary fiber group gipf gi and pf supplementation at a 11 ratio group.gi and pf appeared to help reduce the serum concentration of tmao.effect of three treatments on small intestinal villus height and fossae depthgut bacteria may affect intestinal villus morphology as well as causing changes at the cellular level.

all of the protocols used in this study were approved by the ethics committee of the academy of military medical sciences beijing china and the procedures were carried out in accordance with the european community guidelines for the care and use of experimental animals.the twenty-four 10-week-old male balbc mice were randomly divided into four groups n 6 control group gi group pf group and gipf group.

gi galacto-oligosaccharides  inulin group pf polydextrose  insoluble dietary fiber group gipf gi and pf supplementation at a 11 ratio group.

to identify prebiotic- or dietary fiber-related factors that contribute to the maintenance of a healthy gut microbiota we performed a dietary intervention study in which we compared three different combinations of feed additives gi gos and inulin pf polydextrose and insoluble dietary fiber and a gipf mixture gi and pf 11. the effects of these three combinations on the gut microecology were also investigated.materials and methodsanimals and sample collectioneight-week-old male balbc mice were obtained from the laboratory animal center academy of military medical sciences beijing china and maintained in an ivc rodent caging system.

thus we suggested that maintaining microbiota diversity and the abundance of dominant bacteria in the intestine is extremely important for the health and that the addition of a combination of oligosaccharides and dietary fiber helps maintain the health of the intestinal microecosystem.keywords functional oligosaccharides intestinal microbiota diversity fecal metabolic profiling microecosystemintroductionthe human gastrointestinal tract contains about 500-1500 different species of gut microorganisms  .

and five amino acids l-isoleucine l-leucine norvaline l-tyrosine l-phenylalanine are significantly reduced with the rational combination of components supplementary table s2.correlation between the gut microbiota and fecal metabolic phenotypefunctional oligosaccharide andor ordinary dietary fiber supplementation of the mouse diet changed the structurecomposition of the gut microbiota and substantially altered the fecal metabolic phenotype .

based on comparisons of the ratio of the peak area between the experimental groups and the control group supplementation with functional oligosaccharides andor ordinary dietary fiber led to significant biochemical changes in the fecal microbiota.

142 962-974. cani p. d. bibiloni r. knauf c. neyrinck a. m. and delzenne n. m. 2008. changes in gut microbiota control metabolic endotoxemia-induced diet-induced obesity and diabetes in mice.

46 468-481. hartemink r. quataert m. c. van laere k. m. nout m. j. and romboutsf.

this may be the result of changes in the bacterial composition caused by oligosaccharides and ordinary dietary.conclusionmaintaining the diversity of intestinal microbiota and abundance of dominant bacteria is extremely important for the health and supplementation with a single type of polysaccharides may cause dramatic changes in the intestinal microbiota resulting in damage to the intestinal microecological balance.

compared to the control group the different prebiotics diets had varying effects on the structure and diversity of intestinal microbiota.

gi and pf supplementation led to significant changes in intestinal microbiota including an increase of bacteroides and a decrease of alloprevotella in the gi-fed but those changes were opposite in pf fed group.

intriguing in the gipf mixture-fed group intestinal microbiota had the similar structure as the control groups and flora diversity was upregulated.

the fecal metabolites of the gipf group varied in the range of small fluctuations which may be closely related to the diversity of the intestinal microbiota.

