despite the introduction of new antidepressant drugs many obese patients treated for depres- sion respond poorly to therapy suggesting that obesity may reduce the efficacy of anti-depression treatment .while depression is a multifactorial disease associated with fac- tors such as stress genetic predisposition and traumatic life events recent studies indicate that chronic inflammation caused by a high-fat diet hfd may play a major role in inducing neuro- inflammation and depression.

on the other hand a study showed that overfeeding for eight weeks 760 kcal- day increases lps endotoxemia in healthy non-obese individuals but blood il-6 levels increase only in a few individuals possiblydue to lps-binding proteins or other mechanisms which may pro- tect against systemic inflammation .mice fed a hfd show reduced expression of zonula occludens-1 a tight-junction protein that maintains intestinal integrity   suggesting that bacterial lps may cross the gut barrier via the paracellular pathway.

psychobiotics consisting of prebiotics and probiotics reduce inflammation and may produce beneficial effects in depressed individuals.show higher hpc levels of bdnf and an increased amount of bifi- dobacterium in feces compared with controls suggesting that pre- biotics may modulate the gut microbiota and affect brain function .

recent studies indicate that chronic neuro-inflammation may affect brain physiology and alter mood and behav- ior.

the gut micro- biota mediates many effects of a high-fat diet on human physiology and may also influence the mood and behavior of the host.

this body of research suggests that modulating the composition of the gut microbiota using prebiotics and probiotics may produce beneficial effects on anx- iety and depression.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.contentsintroduction2obesity and inflammation2inflammation and depression3hfd brain inflammation and depression3a role for the gut microbiota in obesity-induced depression4prebiotics and probiotics5perspectives and concluding remarks6 corresponding author at center for molecular and clinical immunology chang gung university 259 wen-hua first road taoyuan 33302 taiwan.e-mail address j.d.

yet it is important to note that the chronic inflammation observed in adipose tissues of obese individuals is non-resolving and occurs over a long period of time months to years indicating that the macrophage population may continuously evolve based on the signals that modulate the activ- ity of these cells and factors that induce macrophage deathsur- vival or replenishment from the pool of monocytes .

bacterial lps originating from the gut microbiota may thus represent an early factor that triggers chronic inflammation in obese individuals.

using an animal model and cul- tured intestinal cells ghoshal and co-workers reported that lps is internalized by gut cells and transported into the circulation via chylomicrons suggesting that the endotoxin may translocate through the transcellular pathway .

this receptor is also expressed on the apical membrane of intestinal epithelial cells and mediates cholesterol and triglyceride absorption  but its possible role in lps translocation remains to be investigated.inflammation and depressionmood disorders are usually classified as depressed or elevated moods mania which may occur alone or together as in bipolar dis- order .

pro-inflammatory cytokines may also disrupt the bbb a phenomenon observed in various mood disorders .

similarly pro-inflammatory molecules like lps may affect the functions of the bbb due to the presence of tlr4 receptors on the surface of brain endothelial cells .both neuronal and non-neuronal brain cells express receptors for pro-inflammatory mediators and produce cytokines constitu- tively or in response to inflammatory stimuli  .

numerous studies have demonstrated that cytokines such as il-1b il-6tnf-a and ifn-a can activate the hpa axis and may induce symp-toms of depression .cytokines can also affect neurotransmitter metabolism in the brain.

in addi- tion il-1b and tnf-a stimulate 5-ht uptake by neuronal cells   while ifn-a decreases the expression of 5-ht receptor 1a .systemic inflammation may induce accumulation of peripheral monocytes into the brain a process implicated in the development of mood disorders .

nota- bly hfd feeding reduces expression of tight junction proteins in the choroid plexus and bbb in rats and may affect brain functionby disrupting bbb integrity .

