recently we have implemented an experimental method to monitor the hydrolysis of sucrose via invertase using nuclear magnetic resonance nmr spectroscopy since the chemical shift of the substrate sucrose is well defined from the product glucose0008-6215c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.. this approach allows the conversion of sucrose to glucose a-d-glucose and fructose via invertase to be monitored in real- time and the subsequent mutarotation process that converts a- d-glucose to b-d-glucose.

the distinct well-resolved peaks of sucrose sucralose and glucose enable the differentiation between molecules in the same sample allowing for the determination of kinetic rates of conversion by the enzyme catalysis.real-time enzymatic conversion of sucrose to glucosewith the known concentration of the internal reference tsp the integration of the area under the respective peaks of sucrose s glucose p and sucralose allowed for the determination of the rate of change of the reactant and product concentrations .

popular nas use the sucrose derivative 1 6-dichloro-1 6-dideoxy-b-d-fructofuranosyl-4-chloro- 4-deoxy-a-d-galactopyranoside commonly known as sucralose a disaccharide that has a similar structure to sucrose .

equation is used to fit the real-time experimental data obtained for enzyme kinetics using the anal- ysis code written in the r-statistical environment .resultsnmr spectral differentiation between sucrose glucose and sucraloseglucose sucrose and sucralose all have at least one proton with a distinct resonance granting the ability to perform real-time analysis of the enzyme kinetics via nmr spectroscopy.

shows the nmr spectra of sucrose a sucralose b and glucose c. the c1 proton for sucrose shows a double peak doublet close to the resonance frequency of 5.41 ppm while the same proton in the sucralose is shifted downfield to 5.49 ppm.

while the hydrolysis of sucrose occurred in both conditions the concentra- tion of sucralose blue diamonds remained constant in the pres- ence of invertase.upon creation of a-d-glucose pa from sucrose the interac-tion with water leads to the mutarotation of a-d-glucose to b-d-glucose pb as shown in b until an equilibrium is reached between a- and b-anomers of glucose.

the enzymatic conversion of sucrose to glucose and fructose follows the standard michaelis- menten enzyme kinetics mechanism e. the enzymatic re- action can be monitored either regarding the substrate sucrose or terms of the product glucose concentration.

an exponential fit  suggests that the catalytic efficiency in units of mm-1 min-1 reduces at a rate of decreases by 50 for every increase in the molar ratio of sucralose to sucrose by 0.87 - 0.15.discussionthe first step in the metabolism of sucrose is the conversion to simpler soluble monosaccharide forms glucose and fructose.

the hydrogen bonding of the three hy- droxyl groups at the c4 c10 and c60 positions of sucrose are crucial for the specificity and recognition of the sucrose by invertase .

krishnan   a department of chemistry california state university fresno ca 93740 united statesb department of pathology and laboratory medicine school of medicine university of california davis ca 95616 united statesa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 4 july 2017 received in revised form 19 october 2017accepted 27 october 2017available online 31 october 2017keywordsenzyme kinetics nmr spectroscopyprogress curve analysis sucralosesucrosea b s t r a c t sucralose a derivative of sucrose is widely used in noncaloric artificial sweeteners nas.

in this manuscript we use real-time nuclear magnetic resonance nmr spectroscopy to demonstrate that sucralose alters the enzymatic conversion of sucrose to glucose and fructose.

sucralose is thermally stable up to 119 oc in its pure form is stable throughout a wide ph range ph 3e7 approximately 650 times sweeter than sucrose and does not decompose in long term storage e. these characteristics make sucralose attractive to the food market as an artificial sweetener additive.due to these attractive natures of sucralose many studies have corresponding author.

showed that the environmental microbial population is incapable of breaking down sucralose and further suggested that sucralose has the characteristics of a competitive inhibitor during the hydrolysis of sucrose via invertase .

other recent studies have indicated that sucralose activates an erk12-ribosomal pro- tein s6 signaling axis in min6 cells pancreatic b cell lines for glucose metabolism and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion  increases antimicrobial resistance  and suppresses food intake by inducing a fasting response in fruit flies .the enzymatic conversion of sucrose to glucose and fructose via invertase is one of the most important enzymatic reactions in prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.

in this manuscript we extend this pro- cedure to demonstrate the role of sucralose in altering the michaelis-menten kinetics of sucrose hydrolysis via invertase.

