consumers evaluated four different conditions control lettuce lettuce washed with thyme eo 250 mgl lettuce washed with the biocontrol agent and lettuce washed with both thyme eo 125 mgl and the biocontrol agent.genomic dna extraction pyrosequencing and quantitative analysis of the microbiome compositiondna was adjusted to 10 ngml concentration and used as tem- plate for 16s metagenomic 454 sequencing analyses.total genomic dna was extracted directly from lamb's lettuce kit mo-bio cambrex biosciences bergamo italy.

at the same time of storage means followed by different letters are significantly different p  0.05. lab counts in samples washed with chlorine and thyme eo ranged between 2.4 and 3.0 log cfug during the whole period of storage.a samples washed with the biocontrol agent l. lactis cbm21 inoculated at a level of 6 log cfuml in the washing solution.b samples washed with thyme essential oil 125 mgl th l. lactis cbm21 inoculated at a level of 6 log cfuml in the washing solution.table 2mesophilic aerobic bacteria count on lamb's lettuce treated with thyme eo the biocontrol agent their combination or chlorine.counts are expressed in log cfug th- standard deviation.

in particular proteobacteria and fir- micutes showed a decrease during storage time in all samples while bacteroidetes showed an opposite trend p  0.005 a. those washed with l. lactis thyme eo showed a more different profile with higher level of proteobacteria and actinobacteria and lower level of bacteroidetes compared to the other samples although the differences on otu distribution were not statistically significant b. the analysis at genus level evidenced a different profile among the samples in relation to storage time c and to the washing solution adopted d. during the storage period an increase of flavobacterium spp.

were absent in 25 g of products while e. coli was always under the detection limits 1.0 log cfug after 12 days of storage irrespective of the washing solution used data not shown.microbiome characterization of lamb's lettuce microbiotaa pyrosequencing analysis was performed on the samples of lamb's lettuce in relation to washing solutions and time of storage 0 5 10 days.

eeffect of thyme essential oil and lactococcus lactis cbm21 on the microbiota composition and quality of minimally processed lamb's lettucelorenzo siroli  francesca patrignani  diana i. serrazanetti  pamela vernocchi   federica del chierico  alessandra russo  sandra torriani  lorenza putignani  fausto gardini   rosalba lanciotti   a department of agricultural and food sciences alma mater studiorum university of bologna campus of food science piazza goidanich 60 47521 cesenaitalyb interdepartmental center for industrial agri-food research university of bologna piazza goidanich 60 47521 cesena fc italyc human microbiome unit bambino gesu children hospital irccs viale di san paolo 15 00146 rome italyd department of biotechnology university of verona strada le grazie 15 37134 verona italye unit of parasitology bambino gesu children hospital irccs piazza sant'onofrio 4 00165 rome italya r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 17 november 2016 received in revised form10 may 2017accepted 26 june 2017available online 27 june 2017keywordsminimally processed vegetables innovative washing procedures shelf-lifepyrosequencinga b s t r a c t the main aim of this work was to evaluate at pilot scale in an industrial environment the effects of the biocontrol agent lactococcus lactis cbm21 and thyme essential oil compared to chlorine used in the washing step of fresh-cut lamb's lettuce on the microbiota and its changes in relation to the time of storage.

the ph of the washing solutions before the treatments resulted 7.04 in case of addition of chlorine 120 mgl 6.85 and 6.76 in case of addition of thyme eo 250 mgl and the biocontrol agent alone respectively and 6.81 for the combination thyme eo and the biocontrol agent.prepared lettuce was immersed in an industrial washing tank and agitated in the appropriate washing solution at 8 oc for 1 min 10 kg of lettuce in 180 l of washing solution.

the biocontrol agent cell loaddecreased during storage by about 0.7e1.3 log cfug after 5 days of storage at 6 oc irrespective of the presence of thyme eo in the washing solution .

in the control samples and in those treated only with thyme eo lab cell loads were lower than 3.0 log cfug also after 12 days of storage at 6 oc.as shown in  no significant differences were evidenced in the total aerobic mesophilic cell loads among the samples for the whole period of storage at 6 oc.

cluster 2 was sepa- rated from the samples subjected to the alternative washing solu- tion and stored for 10 days along the main component 2 explaining the 20.23 of the total variance cluster 3. these differed from the other samples washed with the biocontrol agent andor oil thyme eo which grouped in two other clusters separated along the main component 1 in relation to the storage time cluster 4 and 5.cluster 3 was characterized by the molecules acetic acid methyl ester benzyl alcohol and ethyl acetate while the grouping of cluster4 was mainly affected by butanol 1-propanol hexanal and 2- hexanal.moreover a sensory evaluation through panel tests was per- formed immediately and after 3 and 5 days of storage .

at the same time of storage means followed by different letters are significantly different p  0.05.samples washed with chlorine 120 mgl control.b samples washed with the biocontrol agent l. lactis cbm21 inoculated at a level of 6 log cfuml in the washing solution.c samples washed with thyme essential oil 250 mgl.d samples washed with thyme essential oil 125 mgl th l. lactis cbm21 inoculated at a level of 6 log cfuml in the washing solution.fig.

moreover most of the studies have reported the effect of innovative washing solutions only on the total amount of microbial population but only a few of them have investigated the effects of the treatments on the overall diversity and composition of the bacterial community of the product during the storage and their consequences on product quality .in this context the main aim of this work was to evaluate the effects of innovative washing solutions containing the biocontrol agent lactococcus lactis cbm21 and thyme essential oil on the composition of the microbiota the volatile molecule profiles and the sensory characteristics of fresh-cut lamb's lettuce produced at pilot scale in a small italian company.

1. working protocol used to prepare lamb's lettuce the addition of lactic acid bacteria andor thyme eo was performed during the washing phase samples washed with chlorine 120 mgl represented the controls.immediately after treatments and after 3 5 7 10 and 12 days of storage.

moreover these results are in agreement with those obtained in laboratory trials by  that showed the same reduction of the naturally occurring microbial population when lamb's lettuce was washed either with chlorine 120 mgl or thyme eo.however significant differences in relation to the washing so- lution adopted were pointed out by volatile molecule profiles and sensory analyses performed during storage.

5. a b. projection of the cases 7a samples treated with different conditions at different times of storage and loadings 7b molecules detected by gcmsspme on the factor- plane 1 x 2. pc1 and pc2 explained 28.75 and 20.20 of the total variance respectively.however the color analysis performed immediately after pack- aging and after 3 5 7 10 and 12 days of storage at 6 oc did not show significant differences among the samples data not shown.discussionthe microbiological data and the main quality parameters showed no significant difference regarding the shelf life and safety of the product in relation to the washing solution adopted.

the sensory analyses after 3 and 5 days of storage showed the preference of the panelists for samples washed with the combination thyme eo and the biocontrol agent.

