sucrose used as a proxy for gas- troduodenal permeability significantly decreased after caloric restriction p 0.012. two weeks after interven- tion sucrose increased significantly again p  0.006. in contrast mannitol a marker for intestinal permeability did not change significantly during the 28 days of caloric restriction p  0.162. however after the post- inter- vention phase its percental urine recovery was significantly increased p 0.001. lactulose used as a surrogate to monitor tight junction fitness significantly decreased during intervention p  0.01 while it relapsed after- wards p  0.01. also sucralose used as colonic permeability marker significantly decreased during vlcd p 0.018 and increased again after caloric restriction p 0.019.in addition to sugar translocation we used pegs translocation as an additional measure of gut permeabil-ity.

chemerin considered to be a marker of inflammation and to be associated with obesity and the metabolic syndrome showed a significant decrease after caloric restriction p  0.01. lbp levels a marker for translocation of cell-wall components from gram-negative bacteria significantly decreased after intervention p  0.01 and increased again during follow-up p  0.0001. fecal calprotectin did not decrease significantly after vlcd p 0.79.markers of paracellular gut permeability decreased during vlcd.

during the last two weeks of the study after returning to the habitual diet blood glucose significantly increased p  0.04 whereas insulin levels p  0.11 and homa-ir did not change significantly p 0.16. post-glucose concentrations during the glucose tolerance test did not change significantly before and after vlcd p 0.16 table .table 2. gut permeability parameters at three different time point.

in brief paracellular gut permeability markers including lactulose polyethylene glycol peg 1500 peg25 peg30 peg35 and peg40 and zonulin were consistently decreased after caloric restriction.gut permeability was first measured using a mixture of four different sugars.

in contrast weight reduction is known to improve metabolic disturbances and to decrease the systemic inflammatory tone.based on the observation that obesity is associated with a chronic low-grade inflammatory state and poten- tially impaired gut permeability the present study aimed to investigate whether caloric restriction is able to modulate gut permeability and thereby decrease markers of inflammation in human subjects.

adipocyte size before vlcd was 70.5 - 7.7 mm n 8 and decreased to 67.3 - 7.1 mm n  8 after caloric restriction without reaching significance p  0.38. mean adipocyte surfacearea before vlcd was 4478 - 997 mm2 and decreased to 4020 - 773 mm2 n 8 p 0.31.intervention triggered individual- specific changes in fecal microbiota profiles.

in conclusion caloric restriction induced uniform and consistent changes towards decreased gut permeability.to be able to distinguish between caloric restriction and weight loss we studied the participants after return- ing to a balanced weight-maintaining diet for two consecutive weeks.

rmr did not change significantly during the 4 weeks of dietary intervention table .during the two weeks following the intervention participants regained on average 250 - 1.5 g body weight p  0.47. waist circumference p  0.44 and hip circumference p  0.64 did not change significantly during this post-study period.

p 0.001 p 0.01 p 0.5.despite the significant weight reduction no significant decline in fat cell size of abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue was observed.

however lean mass p  0.01 significantly increased and fat mass p  0.02 significantly decreased during the last two weeks.caloric restriction improved metabolic and inflammatory markers transiently.

openreceived 28 march 2017accepted 31 august 2017 published xx xx xxxxeffect of caloric restriction on gut permeability inflammation markers and fecal microbiota in obese womenbeate ott12 thomas skurk12 ljiljana hastreiter1 ilias lagkouvardos 2 sandra fischer2 janine buttner3 teresa kellerer1 thomas clavel24 michael rychlik5 dirk haller26  hans hauner127recent findings suggest an association between obesity loss of gut barrier function and changes in microbiota profiles.

our primary objective was to examine the effect of caloric restriction and subsequent weight reduction on gut permeability in obese women.

similarly peg70 and peg80 signif- icantly decreased during the 28 days of caloric restriction and remained stable thereafter table .finally zonulin was used as another marker of paracellular gut permeability.

several hits 97 sequence identity within the family bifidobacteriaceae.discussionthe purpose of our study was to assess the effect of a standardised 4-week caloric restriction on gut permeability inflammatory markers and fecal microbiota in obese women.

as expected the vlcd resulted in a significant decrease in body weight and fat mass as well as improvement of fasting blood glucose insulin homa-ir and lipid parameters.the primary objective was to study whether gut permeability which is reported to be impaired in obesity can be positively affected by caloric restriction.

