research articleeffect of replacing soybean meal by raw or extruded pea seeds on growth performance and selected physiological parameters of the ileum and distal colon of pigsanna tusnio marcin taciak marcin barszcz ewa swiech ilona bachanek jacek skomialdepartment of monogastric nutrition the kielanowski institute of animal physiology and nutrition polish academy of sciences jablonna poland abstract the use of pea seeds is limited due to the content of antinutritional factors that may affectgut physiology.

feeding diets containing raw pea seeds exerted more beneficial effect on microbiota activity than extruded seeds as it increased butyric acid concentration and did not contribute to the intensification of proteoly- sis in the distal colon of pigs.

proceedings of the first international workshop on antinutritional factors anf in legume seeds recent advances of research in antinutritional factors in legume seeds.

proceedings of the first interna- tional workshop on antinutritional factors anf in legume seeds recent advances of research in antinutritional factors in legume seeds.

heat treatment such as extrusion may reduce heat-labile antinutritional fac-open accesscitation tusnio a taciak m barszcz m swiech e bachanek i skomial j 2017 effect of replacing soybean meal by raw or extruded pea seeds on growth performance and selected physiological parameters of the ileum and distal colon of pigs.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  whichtors and improve the nutritional value of pea seeds.

this study determined the effect of partial replacement of soybean meal in pig diets by raw or extruded pea seeds on growth performance nitrogen balance and physiology of the ileum and distal colon.

the animals were fed cereal-based diets with soybean meal c which was partly replaced by raw pr or extruded pea pe seeds.

in conclusion feeding a diet with extruded pea seeds improved growth performance of pigs did not affect intestinal mor- phology and had a negligible effect on microbial activity in the distal colon.permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the originalauthor and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data arewithin the paper and its supporting information files.funding this work was supported by the ministry of agriculture and rural development of poland 'improvement of native plant protein feeds their production trade turnover and utilization in animal feed mixtures' no1492011 task 4.3 and 4.4 to at.

lupin faba bean and pea seeds are good alternative sources with a relatively high content of vegetable protein  and can be used both for animals and humans .

pea seeds are also regarded as an important source of carbohydrates vitamins and some minerals including trace minerals .

besides it has a relatively high efficiency requires shorter cooking time than other heating processes and may be used on a large scale.the level of condensed tannins in pea seeds is associated with flower colour   and 1 of these compounds is considered a high level in colour-flowered peas .

milwa pea is a new col- our-flowered variety with low tannin content  0.1.the aim of the present study was to assess whether partial replacement of soybean meal by raw or extruded pea seeds of milwa variety in diets for piglets had a negative impact on growth performance intestinal morphology and microbial activity in the distal colon.materials and methodsmaterialseeds of the spring pea cultivar pisum sativum l. of colour-flowered milwa variety were pur- chased from a commercial supplier.

part of the seeds was extruded on a kmz-2 single-screw extruder sharkan russia under the following conditions moisture of about 22 exposition time of 10 s temperature 110-135c and 30 kgcm2 pressure.

18 crude protein with soybean meal control group--c or with soybean meal partly replaced by raw pr orextruded pe pea seeds.

