inter- estingly larvae fed the supplemented 100fm diets showed no significant differences in intesti- nal neutrophil quantities as compared to larvae fed with 100fm alone .effect of microalgae on fish response to edwardsiella tarda infectionto determine the effects of microalgae on host performance against pathogens larvae fed with the experimental diets were challenged with the bacterium e. tarda .

in larvae fed a soy- bean meal diet supplemented with ts pt ch or ng the quantity of neutrophils present in the intestine drastically decreased as compared to larvae fed only the soybean meal diet.likewise ts or ch supplements in soybean meal or fishmeal increased zebrafish survival by more than 20 after being challenged.

to determine the existence of intestinal inflammation the amount of neutrophils pres- ent in the intestine was used as an inflammatory marker thus neutrophils were quantified after four days of feeding with the experimental diets .as expected and as previously described  larvae fed with 50sbm showed a clear increase in intestinal neutrophil quantities as compared to larvae fed with 100fm .

larvae fed the 50sbm diet supplemented with ch ts ng or pt had fewer intestinal neutro- phils as compared to larvae fed with 50sbm alone.

in contrast larvae fed with 50sbmno had similar neutrophil amounts in the intestine as larvae fed with 50sbm alone .

larvae fed with 50sbm had significantly higher mortality rates than larvae fed with 100fm p  0.05 .

after 60 hpc larvae fed with ts-supplemented diets both 100fmts and 50sbmts had significantly less mortality as compared to larvae fed with control diets .

p  0.05 p  0.01p  0.001. solid lines represent challenged larvae and dotted lines represent control unchallenged larvae.important to remember that we already demonstrated that ts avoid intestinal inflammation  thus the amount of intestinal neutrophils present at t0 in larvae fed with 50sbmts is considerably lower then that found in larvae fed with 50sbm.

finally after 60 hpc larvae fed with 100fmts have more neutrophils at the intestine then those fed with 100fm .discussionin recent decades different microalgae species alone or mixed have been tested for aquacul- ture applications with variable results .

moreover it seems that microalgae prevent intesti- nal inflammation owing to the amount of neutrophils present in the intestine of those larvae fed with sbmmicroalgae except no is indistinguishable from that observed in larvae fed with fm.

the fact that the amount of neutrophil found at t60 in larvae fed with 100fmts is higher than that observed in larvae fed with 100fm alone support our hypothesis.the gastrointestinal tract is chronically exposed to a vast number of dietary antigens microorganisms and toxic molecules.

50sbmch ts ng or pt were similar to larvae fed with 100fm alone .

thus again neutrophils were used as inflammatory markers and were quantified in this organ before challenge t0 and after 60 hours post chal- lenge hpc in larvae fed wit control diets and supplemented with additives.

also mortality was monitored in challenge and unchallenged larvae fed with control and experimental diets .

on the other hand and regarding neutrophils amount present in the intestine larvae fed with 100fm or 50sbm had significantly fewer neutrophils at the intestine after 60 hpc when com- pared to their corresponding t0.

