in a more recent four-week study of 23 healthy subjects whole apple and pomace intake lowered fecal ph but there were no changes in gut microbiota composition .thus to date the effects of apple components on gut microbiota have been explored mainly in animals and using extracted juices  pas  or pectin  alone.

treatment did not have any significant effect on the relative abundance of phylum level at time 0 h and 10 h. however at time 24 h actinobacteria relative abundance differed significantly among all five treatments p  0.017 where supplementation with all the apple varieties led to a higher abundance compared to cellulose p  0.05. focusing on changes over time for each treatment separately figure  firmicutes abundance remained unaffected whereas bacteroidetes significantly decreased over time with inulin p  0.012 renetta canada p  0.002 and golden delicious p  0.019. actinobacteria proportion was significantly increased over time with all the apple varieties renetta canada p  0.05 golden delicious p  0.011 and pink lady p  0.018. finally proteobacteria abundance was also significantly increased with cellulose p  0.021 renetta canada p  0.012 and golden delicious p  0.02 figure .figure 3. changes in bacterial phyla relative abundances  throughout 24-h in vitro batch culture fermentations inoculated with human feces n  3 healthy donors and administrated with inulin cellulose renetta canada golden delicious and pink lady as the substrates treatments.

at 5 h bifidobacteria numbers increased significantly with renetta canada compared to cellulose p  0.004 and inulin p  0.047 bifidobacteria also increased with golden delicious as the treatment compared to cellulose p  0.007. at 10 h bifidobacteria and total bacteria increased significantly with all the apple varieties compared to cellulose p  0.05 with total bacteria also increasing with inulin compared to cellulose p  0.009. bifidobacteria also increased at 10 h with renetta canada compared to inulin p  0.036. at 24 h faecalibacterium prausnitzii increased significantly with renetta canada compared to the other apples p  0.05. all apple varieties and inulin increased faecalibacterium prausnitziii compared to cellulose p  0.05. inulin and golden delicious also had higher faecalibacterium prausnitziii numbers at 24 h compared to pink lady p  0.004 and p  0.032 respectively figure .

apples and cardiovascular health-is the gut microbiota a core consideration nutrients 2015 7 3959-3998.  gerhauser c. cancer chemopreventive potential of apples apple juice and apple components.

wilcks a. effects of apples and specific apple components on the cecal environment of conventional rats role of apple pectin.

rep. 2016 6 31208.  aprikian o. duclos v. guyot s. besson c. manach c. bernalier a. morand c. remesy c. demigne c. apple pectin and a polyphenol-rich apple concentrate are more effective together than separately on cecal fermentations and plasma lipids in rats.

articleeffects of commercial apple varieties on human gut microbiota composition and metabolic output using an in vitro colonic modelathanasios koutsos 12 maria lima 2 lorenza conterno 2 mattia gasperotti 3 martina bianchi 2 francesca fava 2 urska vrhovsek 3 julie a. lovegrove 1 and kieran m. tuohy 2hugh sinclair unit of human nutrition and the institute for cardiovascular and metabolic research icmr department of food and nutritional sciences university of reading whiteknights p.o.

a major proportion of apple polyphenols escape absorption in the small intestine and together with non-digestible polysaccharides reach the colon where they can serve as substrates for bacterial fermentation.

animal studies suggest a synergistic interaction between apple polyphenols and the soluble fiber pectin however the effects of whole apples on human gut microbiota are less extensively studied.

three commercial apple varieties--renetta canada golden delicious and pink lady--were digested and fermented in vitro using a batch culture colonic model ph 5.5-6.0 37 c inoculated with feces from three healthy donors.

the three apple varieties significantly changed bacterial diversity increased actinobacteria relative abundance acetate propionate and total scfas p  0.05. renetta canada and golden delicious significantly decreased bacteroidetes abundance and increased proteobacteria proportion and bifidobacteria population p  0.05. renetta canada also increased faecalibacterium prausnitzii butyrate levels and polyphenol microbial metabolites p  0.05. together these data suggest that apples particularly renetta canada can induce substantial changes in microbiota composition and metabolic activity in vitro which could be associated with potential benefits to human health.

epidemiological and dietary intervention studies suggest that frequent apple consumption is associated with a reduced risk of chronic pathologies such as cardiovascular disease obesity and cancer .

in an in vitro study apple pas have been shown to be converted to polyphenol microbial metabolites mainly phenylpropionic phenylacetic and benzoic acid derivatives.

however the specific bacteria composition was not explored .in vivo extraction juices from apple pomace rich in polyphenols and fiber have been shown to increase lactobacillus bifidobacterium bacteroidaceae species eubacterium rectale cluster as well as scfas in rats .

2010  considered pectin among apple components responsible for a decrease in bacteroides spp.

