j gen virol 1991 72801-7. dolandman wj post j boonstra-blom ag buyse j elbers ar koch g. effect of an in ovo infection with a dutch avian leukosis virus subgroup j isolate onthe growth and immunological performance of spf broiler chickens.

chickens that were dual-infected with alv-j and e. tenella showed prolif- eration of some bacteria like planococcaceae and bacillaceae in different chickens.

j avian leukosis virus alv-j was first isolated in 1988 from meat-type chickens in great britain .

furthermore a significant enrichment of lachnospiraceae enterobacteriaceae and enterococcaceae with the complete depletion of ruminococcaceae rikenellaceaetable 1  number of otus per groups and estimators of sequence diversity and richness.otus operational taxonomic units alv-j subgroup j avian leukosis virus e. tenella eimeria tenella.and porphyromonadaceae was also observed in dual-infected chickens at the family level .genus distributions were also analyzed among different groups .

in addi- tion to the decrease of the translation ribosomal structure and biogenesis role of cecal microbiota that are similar to alv-j infected chickens genes that take part in cell wallmembrane envelope biogenesis were also found to be sharply reduced.dual infection of e. tenella further aggravated the reduced carbohydrate transport and metabolism function of cecal microbiota caused by alv-j infection.

no obvious synergistic or additive effects were detected in the above bacteria in dual-infected chicks indicating that these bacteria may play little role in the pathogenicity caused by dual infection with e. tenella and alv-j.

a synergy between alv-j and e. tenella that results in increasing pathogenesis in spf chickens was underlined previously .

we demonstrated a significant increase of proteobacteria and a slight decrease of bacteroidetes in alv-j infected chickens.

synergy of subgroup j avian leukosis virus and eimeria tenella to increase pathogenesis in specific-patho- gen-free chickens.

mol immunol 2015 64106-11. dowang f wang x chen h liu j cheng z. the critical time of avian leukosis virus subgroup j-mediated immunosuppression during early stage infectionin specific pathogen-free chickens.

synergistic pathogenic effects of co-infection of subgroup j avian leukosis virus and reticuloendo- theliosis virus in broiler chickens.

this study examined the effects of dual infec- tion with eimeria tenella and subgroup j avian leukosis virus alv-j on the chick cecal microbiome.

fems microbiol ecol 2007 59147-57. doliu y zheng j li j gong p zhang x. protective immunity induced by a dna vaccine encoding eimeria tenella rhomboid against homologous challenge.

j parasitol 2003 89553-64. docui z du y zhang z silva r. comparison of chinese field strains of avian leukosis subgroup j viruses with prototype strain hprs-103 and united states strains.

avian dis 2003 471321-30. doreed lj muench h. a simple method of estimating fifty percent endpoints.am j hygiene 1938 274932497.cole jr wang q cardenas e fish j chai b farris rj et al.

