effective bio-pretreatment of sawdust waste with a novel microbial consortium for enhanced biomethanationsameh s. ali  abd el-fatah abomohra  jianzhong sun a biofuels institute school of the environment and safety engineering jiangsu university 212013 zhenjiang chinab school of energy and power engineering jiangsu university 212013 zhenjiang chinac botany department faculty of science tanta university 31527 tanta egypth i g h l i g h t s novel microbial consortium isolated from rotten sawdust was isolated.biological pretreatment showed effective biodegradation.the pretreatment enhanced biogas production by 25.6 over the control.biomethane production was enhanced by 72.6 over the control.the pretreatment enhanced the biomethanation route during anaerobic digestion.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 5 february 2017received in revised form 28 march 2017 accepted 30 march 2017available online 1 april 2017keywordssawdust wastes biological pretreatment anaerobic digestion biogas production biomethanationa b s t r a c t anaerobic digestion ad is considered an efficient cost-effective technology for sustainable biogas pro- duction from lignocellulosic wastes.

the higher biomass loss rate might be attributed to the synergism among the complex population of bacteria and yeast that exist within lcdc.effect of pretreatment on biogas and methane productionshows the daily biogas production rate and biogas yield of the pretreated and untreated sawdust.

however pretreatment enhanced the biogas production spontaneously which reached its maximum 15.9 l kg-1 vs d-1 after 13 days of ad a. as a result of enhancement of biogas production rate the cumulative biogas yield increased continuously during the digestion period.

the maximum significant cumulative biogas yield for the pretreated samples was 312.0 l kg-1 vs after 28 days of adwhich represented 25.6 higher than the corresponding control b. the recorded cumulative biogas yield is comparatively better than that obtained by  who used spent sawdust after gymnopilus pampeanus cultivation and obtained maximum biogas yield of 147.8 ml g-1 vs after 105 days of ad.the untreated sawdust showed a maximum daily methane pro- duction of 7.4 l kg-1 vs d-1 after 20 days of ad.

noteworthy the recorded increase in methane yield as a result of the pretreatment is not only due to enhance- ment of biogas production but also because of increased methane ratio in the produced biogas b. studied the effect of p. chrysosporium on methanation of corn stover and corn stover silage.

2. daily biogas production rate a and cumulative biogas yield b during anaerobic digestion of sawdust for 35 days.

in addition the impact of biological pretreatment on ad of sawdust and biogas  biomethane production was estimated.materials and methodsraw materialssawdust containing a mixture of several lignocellulosic materi- als mainly casuarina and pine was collected in february 2015 from softwood industry.

.alexandropoulou m. antonopoulou g. fragkou e. ntaikou i. lyberatos g. 2016. fungal pretreatment of willow sawdust and its combination with alkaline treatment for enhancing biogas production.

among the different pretreatment strategies biological and alkaline pretreatment methods are con- sidered most promising to enhance the ad of lignocellulosics since both methods are quite effective in the breakdown of lignin .

concluded that in comparison with the traditional chemical pretreatment lignin degradation consor- tium would be a good choice in the pretreatment of lignocellulosic wastes.

in addition the pre- treatment enhanced cumulative biogas yield which reached its maximum value of 312.0 l kg-1 vs after 28 days of ad 25.6 higher than the corresponding control.

although sawdust is a type of bioenergy wastes largely disposable in several countries it is so far less exploited as a substrate for biogas production  .

however the rate-limiting step in the bioconversion of sawdust into biogas during ad process is the degradation of lig- nocellulose which consists mainly of cellulose hemicellulose and lignin.

the later is hardly metabolized by most microbial species during ad leading to high resistance of lignocellulose to enzymatic attack because of the tight association between lignin cellulose and hemicellulose .pretreatments including solubilization and biodegradation of lignin and cellulosic components of the substrates are essential to enhance biogas production by overcoming hydrolysis limita- tions .

many selective lignin-degrading microorganisms have been used individually to reduce the recalcitrance of lignocellulosic biomass and to enhance biogas production e.g.

