furthermore the unexpected higher fecal ph when theobromine was ingested alone deserves further studies focusing on microbial metabo- lites which could explain the observed fecal ph changes.the current results evidence that theobromine both inthe tb and cc diets contributes to the lower proportion of bacteria coated with iga found after the cocoa diet in line with previous results 5 7 15. as rats fed the cc diet even showed a lower proportion of iga-coated bacteria the com- bination of cocoa polyphenols with theobromine in the cc diet could have an additive or a synergistic effect on reducing their proportion.

moreover theobromine modifies gut microbiota although other cocoa compounds could also act on intestinal bacteria attenuating or enhancing the theobromine effects.keywordsfish  metagenomics  methylxanthines  microbiota  short-chain fatty acidsadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived march 9 2017revised june 1 2017accepted june 1 2017introductionalthough cocoa powder was initially used for medical pur- poses by mesoamerican civilizations 1 it is only recently that cocoa has come to be considered a valuable product with healthy properties 2. among these beneficial effects it has been reported that cocoa-enriched diets modulate the immune system and the gut microbiota 3. in particular acorrespondence sandra mart'in-pela' eze-mail abbreviations cc cocoa fb firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio fbs fetal bovine serum fcm flow cytometry fish fluorescence in situ hybridization otu operational taxonomic units pi pro- pidium iodide rf reference tb theobrominecocoa-enriched diet is able to attenuate secretory iga s-iga in several intestinal compartments 4-6 and also the iga- coated bacteria proportion in the gut 5. moreover a diet containing 10 cocoa for 6 weeks modifies the intestinal mi- crobiota composition in rats by decreasing the proportion of bacteroides spp.

therefore the tb group showed lower counts than the other groups when considering the number of bacteria per fecal weight p  0.021 and p  0.055 compared to the rf and cc groups respectively.regarding particular bacterial groups both the cc and tb groups presented lower counts of e. coli than the rf group with the counts being even lower in the cc group than in the tb one.

strept supporting information table 1. in the case of lab158 samples were permeabilized with lysozyme serva heidelberg germany prior to the hy- bridization process 16. all samples were hybridized at the specific probe hybridization temperature as described 15 and kept in the dark at 4degc overnight until fcm analysis.in order to determine the total bacteria number the sam- ples were mixed with propidium iodide pi 1 mgml sigma- aldrich madrid spain prior to fcm analysis 5.determination of the proportion of bacteria coated with igaquantification of iga-coated bacteria was carried out as pre- viously described 15.flow cytometry analysisfor fish and iga-coated bacteria quantification fcm anal- ysis was performed using a facsaria sorp sorter bd san jose' ca usa as previously described 5. commer- cial flow checkfluorospheres beckman coulter inc. fl usa were used to determine total counts combined with pi.

research articleeffect of cocoa's theobromine on intestinal microbiota of ratssandra mart'in-pela' ez123 mariona camps-bossacoma34 malen massot-cladera34mar rigo-adrover34 a ngels franch34 francisco j pe' rez-cano34 and margarida castell341 cardiovascular risk and nutrition research group regicor study group hospital del mar medical research institute imim barcelona spain2 spanish biomedical research networking centre-physiopathology of obesity and nutrition ciberobn healthinstitute carlos iii madrid spain3 physiology section department of biochemistry and physiology faculty of pharmacy and food science university of barcelona ub barcelona spain4 nutrition and food safety research institute insa-ub santa coloma de gramenet spainscope to establish the role of cocoa theobromine on gut microbiota composition and fermen- tation products after cocoa consumption in rats.methods and results lewis rats were fed either a standard diet rf diet a diet containing 10 cocoa cc diet or a diet including 0.25 theobromine tb diet for 15 days.

the metagenomics analysis even though it was carried out in a small number of samples allows to have an idea of particular genera andor species from gut microbiota modified by cc and tb diets and thus by using both techniques in a complementary manner we obtained a wider approach to the gut microbiota changes.according our fish-fcm results theobromine seems to exert an inhibitory effect on gut microbiota mainly on bacteria belonging to the firmicutes phylum clostridium histolyticum-c. perfringens group and streptococcus spp.

5. the cc group and to a lesser extent the tb group showed lower percentages of fecal iga-coated bacteria compared to the rf group at days 8 and 15.discussioncocoa-enriched diets have demonstrated their influence on the gut microbiota and the intestinal immune system which could be partially attributed to the cocoa's polyphenol and fiber content 4 5 7 17. as far as we are concerned no data about the effect of theobromine on gut microbiota and im- munity have been published before.

values are expressed as percentage of iga-coated bacteria mean - sem n 7. rf reference group cc group fed diet containing 10 cocoa tb group fed diet containing 0.25 theobromine.

in fact cocoa is the rich- est natural source of theobromine 10 11. while the effectstable 1. composition of diets used in the studycomponentsdiets gkgaphenolic compounds-4.0- total1000.01000.01000.0a rf reference diet cc diet containing 10 cocoa tb diet con- taining 0.25 theobromine.of flavonoids present in cocoa have been thoroughly studied less attention has been paid to the presence of theobromine in cocoa.

barcelona spain containing 0.25 theobromine and the theobromine tb group ingested a standard diet including 0.25 of theo- bromine sigma-aldrich madrid spain i.e.

in addition theobromine modifies gut microbiota although other cocoa compounds -such as cocoa polyphenols or fiber- also act on the intestinal bacteria at- tenuating or enhancing the theobromine effects that overall leads to the global effect of cocoa on microbiota which differs from that of each particular cocoa component.the authors would like to thank the flow cytometry and genomic services of the 'centres cient'ifics i tecnologics' of the university of barcelona ccit-ub and the genetic diagnos- tic bioarray facilities bioarray alicante spain for their tech- nical assistance.

cc and tb diets induced lower counts of e. coli whereas tb diet led to lower counts of bifidobacterium spp.

rf reference group cc group fed diet containing 10 cocoa tb group fed diet containing 0.25 theobromine.qualitative metagenomics analysis of gut bacterial populationsa total of 71 80 and 73 different species were detected by metagenomics analysis in feces from the rf cc and tb groups respectively supporting information fig.

cc intake led to 11 new species from these four species were also found in the tb group species belonging to bacteroidetes firmicutes and proteobacteria phyla and seven were exclusively detected in the cc group including species belonging to the actinobac- teria cyanobacteria firmicutes and proteobacteria phyla ta- ble 3. only candidatus arthromitus firmicutes phylum clostridia class was found exclusively in the tb group.

fecal concentrations of lactic acid were not significantly affected by the experimental diets 4.26 - 1.54 mm in rf group 1.96 - 0.41 mm in cc group2.69 - 0.73 mm in tb group.figure 4b shows the fold-increase of the total and the in- dividual fecal scfa analyzed acetic propionic butyric and formic acids in the cc and tb groups compared to the rf group.

