Here we just investigated the effect on Bt toxin-induced toxi- city using Cry1Ac protoxin the results also may be different if we used Bt sporecrystal mixture.Coinciding with the results from this study that antibiotics have different effect on midgut microflora and Cry1Ac toxicity in different H. armigera strains it was suggested that midgut microflora might be play important and often essential roles in Bt-induced toxicity of H. armigera.

Effect of different concentrations of antibiotic cocktail on insecticidal activity of Cry1Ac in corrected mortality A and percent reduction in corrected mortality B against H. armigera larvae in 96S BtR and FS strains.

Short CommunicationEffects of antibiotics on biological activity of Cry1Ac in Bt-susceptible and Bt-resistant Helicoverpa armigera strainsMyint Myint Khaing Xianming Yang Man Zhao Wanna Zhang Bingjie Wang Jizhen WeiGemei Lianga State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests Institute of Plant Protection Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences Beijing Chinab Cotton Research and Technical Development Farm Lungyaw Department of Agriculture Ministry of Agriculture Livestock and Irrigation Kyaukse District MyanmarA R T I C L E I N F O KeywordsCotton bollworm Bacillus thuringiensis Gut microbiotaA B S T R A C T In this study the results showed that the population of midgut bacteria and larval mortality due to Cry1Ac are significantly reduced in antibiotic-treated larvae from Bt-susceptible -resistant and field-collected strains 96S BtR FS respectively of Helicoverpa armigera.

Both dead larvae and the larvae that failed to respond to gentle probing were scored as dead.Effect of antibiotics on midgut microflora in H. armigera strainsThe antibiotics which have different spectra of target bacterial taxa gentamicin streptomycin aureomycin and ampicillin were pooled together to make a cocktail with a final concentration of 250 ug ml-1.

Effect of antibiotic cocktail 250 ug ml-1 diet on total midgut bacterial quantity against H. armigera larvae in 96S BtR and FS strains.

The susceptibility of H. armi- gera larvae to Bt toxins is influenced by factors such as the interactions between midgut microflora and the insect host the extent of binding of Bt toxin proteins to brush border membrane vesicles  .

This information is im- portant to understand the roles of midgut bacteria in the action of Bt potentially and in the management of resistance to Bt.Materials and methodsInsect culture and bioassaysThe Cry1Ac-susceptible 96S and resistant strains BtR of H. Corresponding author at Institute of Plant Protection Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences West Yuan Ming Yuan Road Beijing 100193 China.E-mail addresses M. Myint Khaing X. Yang M. Zhao W. Zhang B. Wang J. Wei G. Liang.Received 9 August 2017 Received in revised form 11 October 2017 Accepted 26 October 20170022-2011c2017ElsevierInc.Allrightsreserved.Fig.

Larval mortality was recorded after 5 days and reduction in mortality percentage was calculated as follow Mortality reduction percentage  C - TC x 100 C  the mean mortality percentage of control T  the mean mortality percentage of each treatment.

To confirm the effect of high concentration of anti- biotics on toxicity of Cry1Ac the LC50 of larvae which pretreated by 250 ug ml-1 antibiotics for 5 days in 96S and BtR strain were tested again.Statistical analysisThe effective concentration of toxin Cry1Ac to kill 50 of larvae LC50 was calculated by probit analysis using Polo Plus Software.

The complexinteraction between the insect-gut symbionts and Bt pathogenicity might be due to the wide diversity of microbial composition in insect species and it can be influenced by the plant host and differences in digestive enzymes  .Antibiotics can eliminate the resident midgut microbial community in many insect species and reduce populations of gut microflora such as Enterococcus and Enterobactor which correlated with a decrease in in- sect mortality caused by Bt .

