as shown in  the rate of resistance to several antimicrobials such as cefotaxime ciprofloxacin kanamycin and ceftriaxone was found to decrease in the control group in the absence of antibiotic selective pressure whereas the rate of resistance to several agents such as ampicillintable 1rate of resistance to different antibiotics and variation in prevalence of different phylogenetic types and the blactx-m gene profile among e. coli strains collected from different treatment groups on three strain isolation dates.gpisolation time resistancephylogenetic groupsblactx-msctx cefotaxime cip ciprofloxacin kan kanamycin cro ceftriaxone tet tetracycline chl chloramphenicol nal nalidixic acid amp ampicillin gen gentamicin sul sulfamethoxazole.pgs phylogenetic groups m1 blactx-ms m1 subgroup m2 blactx-ms m2 subgroup m9 blactx-ms m9 subgroup nd not determined.a group 1 control group group 2 ceftiofur sub-therapeutic group group 3 ceftiofur therapeutic group group 4 enrofloxacin therapeutic group group 5 enrofloxacin sub-therapeutic group.b wp weaning point before which the piglets were not fed with any commercial feed pre pre-treatment before which the antibiotic treatment started 10 day noantibiotic treatment tre antibiotic treatment antibiotic treatment endpoint.

short communicationeffect of ceftiofur and enrofloxacin on e. coli sub-population in pig gastrointestinal tractdachuan lin kaichao chen miaomiao xie lianwei ye edward wai-chi chansheng chena shenzhen key lab for food biological safety control food safety and technology research center hong kong polyu shen zhen research institute shenzhenpr chinab the state key lab of chirosciences department of applied biology and chemical technology the hong kong polytechnic university hung hom kowloon hong kong special administrative regiona r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 28 november 2016received in revised form 11 may 2017 accepted 12 may 2017available online 18 july 2017keywords microbiome population structure antibiotic resistanceselectiona b s t r a c tbackground antibiotic resistant sub-population of the gut microbiome in both human and animals may be enriched during antimicrobial treatment.methods this study investigated how the size and antibiotic susceptibility profiles of antibiotic resistant sub-population organisms in the animal gastrointestinal tract changed upon exposure to different levelsof ceftiofur and enrofloxacin by plating fecal samples collected from piglets before and after antibiotic treatment onto macconkey agar containing 0.5 mgml cefotaxime and determination of the resistance rate.

the objective of this study was therefore to evaluate the phenotypic and genotypic changes in the antibiotic resistant sub-population in the gut microbiome in animals before and after encountering different levels of antibiotic stress.materials and methodsstudy designto test the effects of the antibiotic treatment regimens on the gut microflora of the test piglets a batch of twenty 30-day-old piglets which were weaned at the same time and supposed to have never been treated with antibiotic previously were obtained from the same pig farm and housed in our animal facility throughout the process of antibiotic treatment experiments.

wp weaning point before which the piglets were not fed with any commercial feed pre pre-treatment before which the antibiotic treatment started 10 day no antibiotic treatment tre antibiotic treatment antibiotic treatment endpoint.microbiota-based resistant organisms are expected to exhibit growth advantage during the next episode of antibiotic treatment.

pfge profiles of cefotaxime-susceptible e. coli strains recovered at different time points in the ceftiofur sub-therapeutic group also displayed a more diverse pfge profile while within the same isolation point identical clone could be detected group3b  suggesting that the cefotaxime-susceptible e. coli population changed consistently upon antibiotic treatment.taken together our results and those of these few previous studies allow us to conclude that resistant organisms in the gut microbiota could well adapt to the gi tract environment and not readily eradicated during antibiotic treatment.

ct ceftiofur therapeutic group cst ceftiofur sub-therapeutic group est enrofloxacin sub- therapeutic group et enrofloxacin therapeutic group ctrl control group.

wp weaning point before which the piglets were not fed with any commercial feed pre pre-treatment before which the antibiotic treatment started 10 day no antibiotic treatment tre antibiotic treatment antibiotic treatment endpoint.

genetic characteristics and relatedness of strains collected before and after treatment was tested to determine if resistant escherichia coli strains that emerged after treatment was due to dissemination ofresistance-encoding mobile elements or clonal expansion of specific strains.results antibiotic resistant organisms constituted a varied but significant proportion of the gut flora regardless of the degree of previous exposure to antibiotics the proportion of sub-population resistant organisms in the gut flora decreased but remained detectable even 10 days after antibiotic selection pressure had been relieved and increased again upon renewed exposure to antibiotic regardless of the approach of administration.

consistently a significantly higher count of ciprofloxacin resistant e. coli was observed after treatment with sub-therapeutic dose of enrofloxacin p  0.05 whereas the therapeutic group did not exhibit significant increase in the size of the ciprofloxacin-resistant sub-population p  0.05. in the control group without enrofloxacin treatment the ciprofloxacin- resistant sub-population was in fact significantly reduced p  0.05 d. taken together we observed that treatment with sub-therapeutic antibiotic concentration can cause an evenfig.

data are means - s.e.m.more rapid increase in resistance rate than treatment with therapeutic concentrations.to further investigate the nature of changes in the antimicrobial susceptibility phenotype in each treatment group 50 e. coli isolates from none-selective macconkey plates were randomly selected from one representative piglet of each treatment group at different time points including the beginning of weaning wp end of 10-days period of no antibiotic treatment pre and after treatment with different antibiotics tre and subjected to antimicrobial susceptibility testing and phylogenetic typing.

a total of 21 pfge patterns were observed among the 27 e. coli strains collected at three different time points without any antibiotic treatment suggesting the very diversified cefotaxime- resistant e. coli existing in the gi tract of the piglets group g1 .

our data showed that after antimicrobial stress was totally relieved for the first 10 days of experiment the gi tract e. coli population decreased slightly while not significantly for all treatment and control groups anova p  0.05. the e. coli population sizes for all groups of piglets maintained the same during the antibiotic treatment a b. however the population sizes of cephalosporin- resistant and ciprofloxacin-resistant e. coli from different treat- ment groups of piglets were very different at different stages of experiments.

coli strains recovered from the ceftiofur therapeutic group g3b cefotaxime susceptible e. coli strains recovered from the ceftiofur therapeutic group.

these data suggested that the increase of resistant population of e. coli was mainly due to the transmission of existing ctx-m to other susceptible populations.to check whether the increase in prevalence of cefotaxime- resistant e. coli after ceftiofur treatment was due to clonal expansion of specific strains or transmission of ctx-m encoding plasmids five cefotaxime-resistant e. coli strains recovered from one animal at different treatment time points in each of the ceftiofur therapeutic and sub-therapeutic group were subjected to pfge analysis.

for example the kanamycin resistance ratetable 2pfge profile of cefotaxime resistant and susceptible e. coli strains recovered from one piglet before and after treatment with sub-therapeutic and therapeutic concentrations of ceftiofur.was lower in the ceftiofur sub-therapeutic group after 10 days' relief of antibiotic selection pressure but increased again after three days of renewed treatment .

