another study of 13 treated patients with hypertensive heart failure compared 152 metabolites measured in 24-h urine samples at baseline and after participants consumed a dash sodium-restricted diet 50 nmold for 21 d 41. similar to our study this study showed decreases in isovalerate with the sodium-restricted diet 41. finally an experimental study that explored differences in metabolites owing to genetic variation in dahl ss rats compared with normotensive consomic ss.13 rats showed that 23 metabolites differed p  0.05 between the 2 animal groups 42. metabolites that were intermediates or linked glycolysis to the tricarboxylic acid cycle cis-aconitate iso- citrate citrate succinate fumarate and pyruvate were upregu- lated in ss rats 42. valine isoleucine methionine and urea were increased in ss rats whereas glutamate asparagine glycine and tyrosine were decreased 42. we observed significant asso- ciations for some of these metabolites or molecules in related pathways e.g.

although they were not subsequently validated with pure compounds the methods used to identify metabolites in our study are based on a multiple orthogonal criteria linkage to a unit mass spectral library built from authentic stan- dards which has been shown to accurately identify metabolites 6 43. limitations of our study include its relatively modest sample size the lack of an independent replication sample and the in- ability to directly examine metabolites for medium to low sodium intake in the same individuals.in conclusion metabolites and associated metabolic pathwaysdiffered by sodium intake.

metabolon grouped the metabolites into 9 chemical classes amino acids carbohydrates cofactors and vitamins energy me- tabolites lipids nucleotide metabolites peptides and xenobiotics and metabolic subpathways based on kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes classifications 7. unknown chemical identities were tagged beginning with x followed by numbers.in total 1027 plasma metabolites were detected in the samples613 were chemically identified and 414 were unnamed.

seven xenobiotic metabolites in the food component or plant group increased with sodium reduction including 4- allylphenol sulfate methyl glucopyranoside a plus b n- acetylalliin methyl indole-3-acetate gluconate homostachydrine and erothioneine table 3. three xenobiotic metabolites increased with low sodium intake within the benzoate metabolism pathway including 4-ethylphenysulfate which reached bonferroni signifi- cance plin  5.85 3 10210 other significant metabolites in this pathway included 4-methylcatechol sulfate and o-methylcatechol sulfate.

the results for all 531 known metabolites contributing to each pathway are shown in supplemental table 7.a few additional metabolites were among the most stronglyassociated metabolites p  0.0005.

these metabolites are formed using the enzyme g-glutamyl transferase which transfers a g-glutamyl moiety from glutathione to amino acids and peptides 24. g-glutamyltransferase is a cell-surface protein that is im- portant for maintaining glutathione homeostasis and its activity increases in response to oxidative stress 25. in an in vitro ex- periment the sodium chloride concentration was directly pro- portional to g-glutamyl transferase activity 26. to our knowledge most epidemiologic studies have shown blood concentrations of g-glutamyltransferase to be positively associated with pre- hypertension 27 hypertension 28 and cardiovascular disease 29 30. there is evidence that excess salt intake induces oxi- dative stress in salt-sensitive ss hypertension 31. although speculative it is possible that compared with high sodium intake sodium restriction decreases g-glutamyl transferase activity via reduction of oxidative stress and accounts for the significantdecreases in g-glutamyl amino acid metabolites we observed.metabolites within the tryptophan metabolism pathway par- ticularly indole-related metabolites significantly increased with sodium restriction.

studies of patients with disorders of tyrosine metabolism who are treated with the drug nitisinone suggest that 4-hydrophenylpyruvate can stimulate theproduction of indole metabolites from tryptophan via tryptophan aminotransferase 33. more research is needed to understand how sodium intake impacts tryptophan-related metabolites 4- hydroxyophenylpyruvate and the biochemical relation between these metabolites.a few additional metabolites that changed with sodium re- striction deserve mention.

effects of dietary sodium on metabolites the dietary approaches to stop hypertension dash-sodium feeding studyandriy derkach1 joshua sampson1 justin joseph12 mary c playdon1 and rachael z stolzenberg-solomon11division of cancer epidemiology and genetics national cancer institute nih rockville md and 2department of chemistry virginia commonwealth university richmond vaabstractbackground high sodium intake is known to increase blood pres- sure and is difficult to measure in epidemiologic studies.objective we examined the effect of sodium intake on metabolites within the dash dietary approaches to stop hypertension trial- sodium trial to further our understanding of the biological effects of sodium intake beyond blood pressure.design the dash-sodium trial randomly assigned individuals to either the dash diet low in fat and high in protein low-fat dairy and fruits and vegetables or a control diet for 12 wk.

the metabolites were divided into 38 defined pathways supplemental table 1. for each pathway we combined the p values of the included metabolites by fisher's method fisher's statistic   2 2 lndpjth.

additional analyses on unknown metabolites detected 2 statistically significant metabolites plin  1025 that were highly correlated to g-glutamyliosoleucine and g-glutamylleucine supplemental table 6 no metabolite detected in 50 of participants was significant at q  0.1.the most strongly associated pathway was the fatty acid group in which the short-chain fatty acid isovalerate decreased and the lipids butyrylcarnitine and valerylcarnitine increased with sodium reduction.

the strongest associations were observed in the fatty acid food plant component benzoate methionine and tryptophan pathways with metabolites that mostly increased with the low-sodium intervention and metabolites in the g-glutamyl amino acid pathway that decreased with sodium restriction.

4-ethylphenylsulfate is correlated with the consumption of soy products 17 18 and is elevated in the plasma of vegans compared with omnivores a vegan diet increases concentrations of several products pro- duced by the gut microbiota 19. salt has known antibacterial properties 20 and has been used for medicinal purposes for centuries 21 22. others have suggested that both diet and the microbiome mediate associations between metabolites and blood pressure 23. although speculative the effect of sodium restriction on the gut microbiome may contribute to the in- creases in 4-ethylphenylsulfate and possibly to changes in other metabolites e.g.

we measured 531 identified plasma metabolites in 73 partic- ipants at the end of their high- and low-sodium interventions and in 46 participants at the end of their high- and medium-sodium interventions n  119. we used linear mixed-effects regression to model the re- lation between each log-transformed metabolite and sodium intake.

although 82 metabolites were associated with sodium intake at a false discovery rate 0.10 only 4-ethylphenylsufate a xenobiotic related to benzoate metabolism was significant at a bonferroni-corrected threshold p  1025. adjustment for co- inciding change in blood pressure did not substantively alter the association for the top-ranked metabolites.conclusion sodium intake is associated with changes in circulating2300 mgd with the mean daily sodium intake being w3500 mg 1. high sodium intake is known to be associated with high blood pressure.

in 2013 the institute of medicine concluded that there was evidence to support an association between sodium intake and an increased risk of cardiovascular disease stroke and all-cause mortality in accordance with the known effects of sodium on blood pressure 2. however associations between sodium intake and other health outcomes have been difficult to identify 2. to our knowledge sodium intake is poorly measured in epidemiologic studies and this measurement error leads to in- accurate risk estimates 2. in addition the specific biological effects of high sodium intake aside from increased blood pressure are not well understood 2.we studied the effect of sodium intake on plasma metabolites among participants in the dash dietary approaches to stop hypertension trial-sodium trial 3 a landmark clinical feeding study.

