at genera level five flourished after treatment with acarbose including lactobacillus and dialister while butyricicoccus phascolarctobacterium and ruminococcus were inhibited.conclusion this study suggests that the benefits of acarbose for t2dm may correlate with the selective modulation of the gut microbiota.trial registration chinese clinical trial register number chictr-ttrcc-13004112.keywords acarbose cardiovascular disease gut microflora prediabetes type 2 diabetesintroductionpopulation-based studies have clearly shown that subjects with prediabetes will more likely develop diabetes and have increased risk of cardiovascular disease cvd.

we have previously shown that fins concentration was negatively correlated with the diversity of gut microbiota suggesting that insulin resistance may affect the composition of gut microbiota.

doi 10.1007s13300-017-0226-yeffects of acarbose on the gut microbiotaof prediabetic patients a randomized double-blind controlled crossover trialxiuying zhang .

however the response of gut microbiota to acarbose is important as the microbiota may have a critical role in the development of metabolic diseases andx.

we explored the changes in the proportion and diversity of gut microbiota before and after treatment with acarbose in patients with prediabetes.methods we designed a randomized double-blind controlled crossover trial in which 52 chinese patients with prediabetes by an oral glucose tolerance test ogtt with a bmi of 18-35 kgm2 were randomly allocated to treatment with acarbose or placebo.

gut microbiota characterizations were determined with 16s rdna-based high-throughput sequencing.

however the reason why acarbose confers additional benefits besides its antidiabetic effect remains unknown.the composition and activity of the gut microbiota codevelop with the host from birth and is subject to a complex interplay that depends on the host genome nutrition and lifestyle.

accumulating evidence indicates that the gut microbiota is involved in host metabolism by increasing energy extraction immune system modulation and altering lipid metabolism which play an intricate role in metabolic disorders such as obesity and diabetes  .

we even observed changes in the proportion and diversity of gut microbiota in the early prediabetes period .

furthermore gut microflora may also influence drug bioavailability and toxicological incidence via microbial-dependent drug metabolism.

as acarbose is metabolized exclusively within the gastrointestinal tract principally by intestinal bacteria and digestive enzymes we hypothesize that modulation of gut microbiota may contribute to one of the mechanisms mediating its antidiabetic effect and confer additional benefits.

to test this hypothesis we designed a randomized double-blind controlled crossover trial in which the clinical effects and the changes of gut microbiota before and after treatment with acarbose and placebo were compared.methodssubjectsin this study we screened men and women aged between 30 and 60 years who had a body mass index bmi of between 18 and 35 kgm2 by a baseline 75-g oral glucose tolerance test ogtt in beijing china and enrolled 52 participants 21 male and 31 female with prediabetes according to who criteria 1998 .

trial registration chinese clinical trial register number chictr-ttrcc-13004112.designthe study was a randomized double-blind controlled crossover trial in which the clinical effects and changes of gut microbiota in response to acarbose and placebo were compared.

to evaluate if the gut microflora profile became similar to that of healthy people we compared the taxonomic profile of subjects treated with acarbose with that of healthy and t2dm individuals from our previous study .statistical analysisclinical data were analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis.

statistical significance was set at 0.05 and all statistical analyses were performed using sas statistical software version 9.1.3 sas institute inc cary nc usa.kruskal-wallis rank sum test and wilcoxon rank sum test were adopted to compare the relative abundances of gut microbiota between the groups.

