on the contrary it suggests that we should pay more attention to the individual differences stages of disease and the compositions of nsps in the intervention trials in particular investigating the cause of contrary results will promote us to understand the precise mechanism of supplementing nsps in ibd treatment.table 1. different nsps from various sources related with ibd.types of nspssourcesstructureref.experimental methodmain results25 gday bran 39 ulcerative colitis uc patientshigh bran intake is of less value in maintaining60 gday quiescent uc 3 monthsno patient showed signs of colitis relapseoatb-13-and 14-glucan1 of g1 or g2 b-glucan bg chronic lipopolysacchride lps -induced enteritis rats5001000 mg per kg b-glucan bg dextran sulfate dss-induced colitis rats60 mlday of andosan 11 crohn's disease cd and 10 uc 12 daysdna damage of lymphocytes from inflammatorydifferent type blood leucocyte clinical symptoms  pro-inflammatory factor inflammatory cytokine  calprotectin of uc bowel disease ibd patients under h2o2 in vitro were measuredoxidative stress in lymphocytes oral daily intake of andosan 50 patients with symptomatic uc and crohn's disease cd5001000 mg per kg bg dss-induced colitis ratsmarginally anti-inflammatory effectsinflammatory cytokine  phosphorylation of elk-1 atglucanmushrooma- and b-d-glucan lps-stimulated raw264.7 cellser84 phosphorylation of pparg at ser112 2 or 20 mg per mouse daily dss-induced colitis mouseanti-inflammatory cytokines  clinical symptoms  -hepatic cyp1as expression  nf-kb  sw 480 human colorectal cancer cellproliferation  diphenyl-picryl hydrazyl dpph  ht-29 colon cancer cellsproliferation  pro-apoptotic molecules bax andhuman colon cancer dld-1 cellsproliferation dpph radicals th17-major contributor to pathology of ibdexpression of th17-related cytokines il-17a il-17fseaweedb-1316-glucan measured in pig colonand il-22 receptor il23r and il-6 laminarin and fucoidan dss-challenged pigsbody weight  il-6  enterobacteriaceae  bacterial glucanb-13-glucan2.5 or 5 mgkg for 2 weeks dss-induced ibd in micerecruitment of macrophages  expression ofmigration of gastric epithelial cells  epidermalroot of angelica sinensisa-13-glucan a-16-glucan anda400 and 800 mgkg 246-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid tnbs and ethanol induced colitis ratgrowth factor egf  ulcer healing  myeloperoxidase mpo malondialdehyde mda and nitric oxide no  tnf-a il-10  il-2  tgf  superoxide dismutase sod activity table 1. cont.types of nspssourcesstructureref.experimental methodmain resultsmacromolecules l-fucosepathology in colon  15 pro-inflammatory cytokines rhamnose and galacturonic acid as side chains transgenic rats short chain fatty acids scfas 5 plantago ovata seeds tnbs model of rat colitisintestinal cytoarchitecture  tnf-a  no synthase activity 21 patients with mildly to moderately active uc 20-30 g 24 weeks plus regular drugclinical activity index  no side effects related to germinated barley foodstuff gbf were observedarabinoxylan arabinogalactanxylans or galactans as backbonegrain cerealand arabinose or pentosans ashigh molecular weight arabinoxylans high-fat diet mice 4 weeks.caecal bifidobacterial prebiotic propertiesside chains wheat bran and resistant starch 8 weeks uc in remissionxylooligosaccharidespectin in vitro fermentation human fecal microbiotabetter gut transit akkermansia muciniphila  diversity within clostridium cluster xiva scfas  ph  health-promoting bacteria tlr-2  il-10  il-12  1014 patients showed a clinical response similar to corticosteroids treatmentprebiotics--oligosaccharideschondroitin sulfate and prebiotics resistant starchb-glucan and mannaoligosaccharides canine ibd 180 daysb.

further investigating of the crosstalk between immune cells epithelial cells and gut microorganisms in addition to evaluating the effects of different kinds and different molecular weights of nsps will lead to well-designed clinical intervention trials and eventually improve the treatment and prevention of ibd.keywords non-starch polysaccharide nsp inflammatory bowel disease ibd intervention mechanism scfas gut microbiota immune system pro-inflammatory cytokinesintroductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd is mainly characterized by intermittent inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract  which can be subdivided into ulcerative colitis uc and crohn's disease cd and its incidence has increased considerably over the past few decades .

we summarized the possible molecular mechanisms of nsps affecting the maintenance and recovery of ibd in the following figures and .figure 2. the possible positive effects of different nsps on ibd patients.nsp non-starch polysaccharide ibd inflammatory bowel disease scfas short chain fatty acids.figure 3. the possible molecular mechanisms of nsps affecting ibd.

for patients with active forms of the diseases especially when ulcers occur diets with low easily fermentable nsps are recommended which is referred to as a low fodmap diet .overall most studies showed that dietary nsps were associated with beneficial effects of ibd patients and the association were not entirely consistent.

2012 89 713-722.  rychlik a. nieradka r. kander m. nowicki m. wdowiak m. kolodziejska-sawerska a. the effectiveness of natural and synthetic immunomodulators in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease in dogs.

infantis 35624 showed a greater reduction in symptom scores and improved il-10il-12 ratiofecal bifidobacterial  3.5 gdays significantly changed stool consistency and bloating etc.table 1. cont.types of nspssourcesstructureref.experimental methodmain resultspartially hydrolyzed guar gum phgg murinecolonic damage  mpo and tnf-alpha protein tnbs-induced colitis modelclostridium cluster xiva and iv and bacteroides fragilis guar gum and phgg murine model of dss-inducedclinical score  occludin and claudin 3 4 and 7 fecalmannose as backbone with colitisscfas gumguar partiallyhydrolyzedrandom substitutions of galactose in a ratio of 1.61phgg comminuted chicken diet persistent diarrhea in 116 children 7 dayphgg and fructo-oligosaccharides fos 21 days humandiarrhea bifidobacteria acidic heteropolysaccharidesibsstool consistency  abdominal pain colitis severity  mucosal damage  inflammatorypectinwild jujubeabout 40 of arabinose glucose 20 arabinose20 galacturonic acid and the rest galactosecalcium pectate 67.3wild jujube polysaccharides tnbs-induced colitis rats25 and 50 mgkg calcium pectate ethanol-inducedresponse  amp-activated protein kinase ampk activity citrusanhydrogalacturonic acid and 38 mgg calciumulcers prednisolone induced injury and h. shay ulceration in 114 mice 7 daysmucosa damage plantago asiaticacarboxymethylation of the seedsdendritic cells in vitromhcii  il-12 ccr7 and cxcr4  endocytosis activities  mixed lymphocyte reactions nsp modifiersmarine plantssulfated fucans and sulfated--anti-inflammatory activity  antimicrobial activity  represent increase  represent decrease.mechanisms of nsps in the interventions of ibdalthough great efforts have been made to study the pathogenesis of ibd its precise etiology still remains unrevealed and is generally believed to be associated with multiple elements including genetic background environment microorganism and immunity .

33-63.aldini r. micucci m. cevenini m. fato r. bergamini c. nanni c. cont m. camborata c. spinozzi s. montagnani m. et al.

in their study they overlooked the difference of uc patients oat bran may be effective for patients with mild symptoms but it may be useless for patients with severe symptoms.

andosantm has also been applied in another randomized placebo-controlled study however these 50 patients exhibited active uc and cd and only limited anti-inflammatory effects were observed in these patients .our latest work evaluated the anti-inflammation effect of lentinus edodes b-glucan bg and its molecular mechanism.

it is thus reasonable that nsps have failed to generate consistent disease alleviation in ibd patients.

hetland g. lyberg t. lygren i. johnson e. cytokine levels after consumption of a medicinal agaricus blazei murill-based mushroom extract andosan in patients with crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis in a randomized single-blinded placebo-controlled study.

saetre l. lyberg t. lygren i. hetland g. effect of an extract based on the medicinal mushroom agaricus blazei murill on expression of cytokines and calprotectin in patients with ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease.

through these means nsps can alleviate the symptoms of ibd patients and further decrease the risk of colorectal cancer crc -.effects of nsps on ibdoat bran glucannon-starch polysaccharides were first introduced as a clinical treatment for human uc in 1978 by davies  in which oat bran was applied.

taking into account the anti-inflammatory immune stimulating prebiotical and healing properties of several of nsps we think it is necessary to add certain amount of nsps to the diet in the early stage of ibd and post-hospital ibd patients.

baumgartner a. jerwoodc d. andersona d. chaga mushroom extract inhibits oxidative dna damage in lymphocytes of patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

