blue  2 light blue  1 orange  0 green  -1 yellow  -2.abundance of lachnospiriaceaeincertae.sedis in the hie treated group 11.73 compared to the control 6.98 p  0.035 in- deed bacteroidetes was found to be significantly higher in the control group 8.65 compared to the hie treated group 2.30 p  0.004 corresponding with significantly higher levels of bacteroides at genus level in the control group 6.48 compared to the hie treated group 0.86 p  0.002. indeed at genus level high inter-individual variation was observed between both groups.in the control group bifidobacterium and blautia were present at an average relative abundance of 15.07 and 9.16 respectively however the relative abundance of these genera were found to be inverted in the hie treated group with an average relative abun- dance of bifidobacterium at 9.16 and blautia at 15.49. lachnos- pira was also present in both the control and hie treated group at an average relative abundance of 10.09 and 15.53 respectively.

2.relative abundance of microbial taxathe relative abundance of phyla present in both groups was determined from the rarefied dataset and compared for statistical significance see  supplementary table 1. at phylum level firmicutes was found to be the dominant phylum in both groups however at family level the abundance of lachnospiriaceae was found to be significantly higher in the hie treated group 52.22 compared to the control group 36.38 p  0.0172. at genus level this result corresponded with a significantly higherfig.

high inter-individual variation was observed between the control and hie treated group however analysis of microbial diversity found a significant decrease in the alpha diversity of our hie treated group suggesting that tbc may affect microbial richness in later life.

no significant differences were found using the chao 1 diversity index however the shannon and simpson diversity indices were found to be significantly higher in the control group p  0.038 compared to the hie treated group.

thus it is reasonable to suggest that this type of treatment at birth could impact the development of the gut microbiome.findings from this study suggest that tbc in treating hie at birth had no significant effect on the gut microbial composition or me- tabolic profile of infants at 2 years of age.

to determine whether the microbial dataset correlated with the metabolic data co-inertia analysis was carried out using the ade4 package in 'r' using the monte-carlo test to generate an rv coefficient.results16s microbial compositiondiversity measuresduring the course of this study a total of 17 faecal samples were collected from infants at 2 years of age and subjected to 16s rrna analysis.

2. percentage relative abundance of microbial taxa at family level.adapter sequences chosen according to the 16s metagenomic sequen- cing library protocol for the illumina miseq using the following 16s primer pair f -5'tcgtcggcagcgtcagatgtgtataagagacagc- ctacgggnggcwgcag and r- 5'gtctcgtgggctcggagatgtgt- ataagagacaggactachvgggtatctaatcc  .bioinformatic analysis300 bp paired-end reads were assembled using flash .

moreover production of these particular microbial by-products has been found to improve colonocyte health and mucosal immunity .overall results from this study suggest that there is no impact onthe gut microbial development of infants subjected to tbc at birth compared to a healthy full term infant group at 2 years of life.

in addition a significant decrease in the relative abundance of bacteroides was found in our hie treated group with an increased relative abundance of lachnospiriaceae.

for example a significantly increased abundance of acetic acid and bifidobacteria was found in one breast fed infant cohort   and a study by found a low abun- dance of acetate and butyrate which correlated with an increased abundance of proteobacteria in a small cohort of breast fed and formula fed infants during the first 30 days of life  .

ryana teagasc food research centre moorepark fermoy co. cork irelandb apc microbiome institute university college cork irelandc infant centre and department of paediatric and child health university college cork irelandd department of neonatology cork university maternity hospital irelande department of microbiology university college cork irelandf department of molecular and cellular biology university of guelph ontario canadag school of science engineering and food science university college cork cork irelandh department of food quality and nutrition research and innovation centre-fondazione edmund mach san michele all'adige trento italya r t i c l e i n f o keywordshypoxic ischemic encephalopathy hie total body cooling tbcinfant gut microbiota infant metabolic profile 1h nmra b s t r a c t neonatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy hie in the perinatal period can lead to significant neuro- logical deficits in later life.

phylotype richness was measured using the chao 1 diversity index while both species richness and evenness of the microbial dataset were measured using the shannon and simpson diversity indices.

alpha diversity measures detected significantly lower diversity in microbial richness in the hietbc infant group compared to the control infants shannon index  0.05. high inter-individual variation was found in gut microbiota composition and metabolic profile of both groups.

5. heatmap of 1h nmr faecal metabolomic data using euclidean distance matrices on metaboanalyst 3.0was found to be quite high with a relative abundance of 20.82 and 27.15 see .

a non-para- metric kruskal-wallis test was used to determine statistical sig- nificance in the relative abundance of microbial taxa between the control and hie treatment group.

