such predictive understanding is needed for the ratio- nal design of intervention strategies to actively control the microbiota.gut microbiota  colon physiology  water absorption  stool consistency  colonic phhe human gut microbiota is composed of trillions of bacterial cells 1-4 from several hundred species 1-3 5 6. over thelast two decades a multitude of studies have shown a strong impact of human health status on the composition of this microbiota and in turn a strong effect of microbiota composition on host physiology has also been confirmed 7-9. various intervention strategies are being investigated to modify the microbiota composition via prebiotics and probiotics 10. despite this importance for human health little is known about how the microbiota composition is shaped by the in- terplay between human and bacterial physiology in the gut.in this study we present a physiological model that quantitatively describes this host-microbiota interplay.

we further characterized the rates of bacterial growth carbohydrate consumption and fermentation product excretion for representatives of the two dominant bacteria phyla bacteroidetes and firmicutes that typically make up more than 90 of the bacterial cells observed in the gut 6.combining these aspects of human and bacterial physiology into a coarse-grained mathematical model allowed us to study bacterial growth dynamics in the human gut.

3 reproduce a number of published observations remarkably well the absolute magnitude of bacterial densities in the beginning of the colon 16 and in feces 1 19 the sharp drop in ph at the beginning of the colon and the later rise to neutral values 24 30 as well as scfa concentrations in the dif- ferent parts of the colon 24 30 have all been measured in human subjects and are quantitatively captured by our model without pa- rameter fitting see si appendix table s3 for a comparison ofmodeling results with literature data.these results show that bacterial growth at least of the primary carbohydrate consumers takes place in the proximal colon fig.

6 in a way that depends on the buffer properties of the lumen si appendix section 4. in short ph follows observed buffer behavior of the luminal fluid and a self-consistent solution of the dissociation dynamics for lower ph the buffer components in themarized in si appendix tables s1 and s2.acknowledgments.

both of these effects lead to a drop in ph and thus via the differential ph feedback on bacterial growth to an advantage for firmicutes.we have shown that detailed and quantitative data on human and bacterial physiology can be used to understand their interac- tions leading to mechanistic insights into main factors shaping the composition of microbiota in the gut.

these findings clearly illustrate the importance of understanding spatial bacterial growth dynamics in the colon fecal microbiota compo- sition is a consequence of bacterial growth in the proximal colon.to predict how changes in bacterial and host physiology may affect microbiota composition we performed a sensitivity analysis for a number of physiologically relevant parameters see si ap- pendix table s4 for a comprehensive list of parameters.

we find that changes in ph values in the colon that are due to the secretion of acidic fermentation products and shaped by human physiology such as flow through the colon mixing of colonic contents epi- thelial absorption of water and fermentation products are key to understanding changes in microbiota composition by their fer- mentative mode of growth members of the gut microbiota are forced to acidify their environment and because different species exhibit different sensitivities to ph changes this internal feedbackchanges the microbiota composition.

c2c  t  d x2 - x 12vdxthc  ebco2 lbdn phthrb  efco2 lfdn phthrf ac  jscfadsth - ecdc phth5lumen have to buffer more protons coming from scfas and total carbonate full discussion in si appendix section 4.details of model implementation including boundary conditions and numerical solution are given in si appendix section 5. see dataset s1 for thewith ebco and efco denoting the estimated rate of co2 production si appendixsource code of the simulations.

2c in a recent in vitro study 11 it has been shown that hydrodynamic mixing in combination with bacterial growth allows maintenance of stable bacterial populations even for high flow rates here we discuss the situation in the human gut in si appendix fig.

the structure of the model is outlined in materials and methods and described in detail in si appendix sec- tion 5. importantly all parameters used in the model summarized in si appendix tables s1 and s2 are either derived directly from experimental data on bacterial physiology or deduced from ananalysis of published data without resorting to fitting parameters.growth dynamics for standard western diet.

all calculations are based on the measured characteristics of epithelial transporters and buffer capacity of the lumen 59 see si appendix sections 2.8 2.9 and 4 for details.microbiota composition 31 32 45 46 with stool consistency bss identified as the single most important factor explaining microbiota variation in a large-scale epidemiological study 44. our results offer a minimal explanation for these variations nutrient inflow and stool consistency affect microbiota composition via changes in luminal ph.

j lab clin med 81733-746.van houte j gibbons rj 1966 studies of the cultivable flora of normal human feces.antonie van leeuwenhoek 32212-222.sonnenburg jl angenent lt gordon ji 2004 getting a grip on things how do communities of bacterial symbionts become established in our intestine nat immunol 5569-573.kim hj li h collins jj ingber de 2016 contributions of microbiome and mechanical deformation to intestinal bacterial overgrowth and inflammation in a human gut-on- a-chip.

see si appendix section 1.2 for details.modeling bacterial growth dynamics in the human colon.

1a and si appendix section 5.7. simulation for 120 h. profiles of other variables are shown in si appendix fig.

2 and si appendix section 2.2.growth dynamics is governed by the growth rates lb and lf which de- pend on the local nutrient concentration n through the monod form si appendix eq.

