all values were expressed as mean sd of three parallel measurements n 3. values in the same column with different superscripts are significantly different according to duncan's multiple range test p  0.05. zones of inhibition around the disk were measured in millimeter mm using a vernier's caliper.inhibitory effect of  -lariciresinol was more profound against gram-positive bacterium than gram-negative bacterium.effect on bacterial cell viabilityin this assay  -lariciresinol when inoculated at mic exhibited significant inhibitory effects against the growth of tested pathogens s. aureus kctc1621 and e. coli o157h7 as confirmed by reducing pattern in the bacterial cell viabilities .

interestingly in this assay  -lariciresinol was able to confirm its bactericidal effect against both the tested pathogens s. aureus kctc1621 and e. coli o157h7 as confirmed by the marked release of free k ions from the treated bacterial cells as compared to non-treated cells used as a control .the  -lariciresinol at mic allowed the k ion release of 150-700 mmoll and 100-650 mmoll against s. aureus kctc1621 and e. coli o157h7 respectively .release of 260 nm absorbing cellular materialsin this assay we determined the release of 260-nm absorbing materials from the bacterial cells when treated with  - lariciresinol at mic.

in contrast no changes in the od of control cells of tested pathogens were observed during the study.observation of morphological changes in bacterial cell wallsince exposure to an antimicrobial agent may lead to disruption of bacterial cell wall we turned to sem analysis to investigatefurther the effect of  -lariciresinol on the cell wall physiologies and morphologies of s. aureus kctc1621 and e. coli o157h7 cells .

each assay in this experiment was replicated three times.determination of the effect of -lariciresinol on bacterial viabilitiesfreshly grown bacterial colonies of the selected pathogenic bacteria were inoculated in nb medium at 37c for 24 h and then bacterial cultures were serially diluted to 107 cfuml   .

moreover deteriorated cell wall morphology of e. coli o157h7 and s. aureus kctc1621 cells treated with -lariciresinol at mic further confirmed its inhibitory effect against the tested pathogens suggesting it to be an alternative means of antimicrobials.keywords antimicrobial effect rubia philippinensis  -lariciresinol foodborne pathogens scanning electron microscopyintroductionfood industry and regulatory authorities are more concerned about the safety of food and its contamination by foodborne pathogenic bacteria  .

furthermore failure to control foodborne pathogens using current preservation techniques has raised a serious concern to explore new and natural classes of antimicrobials to combat against serious foodborne pathogens  .

recently it has beenfound that currently available preservation techniques have not provided optimal results to control or retard the growth of foodborne and food spoilage pathogens in vivo  .on the other hand current scenario in drug discovery and development has consistently showed development of resistance among the foodborne pathogens to the commercially available antibiotics  .

the nb broth used as a negative control had no inhibitory effect on the growth of the tested pathogens.mic and mbcin this assay test foodborne pathogens displayed different susceptibility rates to  -lariciresinol and  -lariciresinol exhibited potent inhibitory effect as confirmed by its different mic and mbc values against both the tested pathogens.

the  -lariciresinol was first dissolved in 5 dmso and incorporated into nb medium for bacterial pathogens to obtain a concentration of 500 ugml and serially diluted in nb broth medium to achieve 250 125 62.5 31.25 15.62 and 7.81 ugml respectively.

further the concentrations showing complete inhibition of visual growth of bacterial pathogens were identified and 50 ul of each culture broth was transferred onto the agar plates and incubated for specified time and temperature as mentioned above.

interestingly the exposure to  -lariciresinol for 200 min completely inhibited the cell viabilities of both tested pathogens .kion effluxrelease of extracellular k ions from the bacterial cells when treated with a suitable antimicrobial could be an indication of the establishment of the bactericidal effect of the tested compound.

also plants or their oils rich inpolyphenolic compounds have shown significant results of antimicrobial efficacy through the reduction in cell viabilities of various tested foodborne pathogens  .the release of extracellular k ions from bacterial cells is an indicator of bactericidal effect of compound used for the treatment.

the control tubes containing only bacterial suspensions were incubated at 37c for 24 h in a bacterial incubator chamber thermo scientific ltd. korea.

since the excessive release of 260 nm materials dna and rna may lead to irreversible injury to bacterial cells and  -lariciresinol caused a significant effect on the bacterial cells .

8804.doi 1 department of applied microbiology and biotechnology microbiome laboratory yeungnam university gyeongsan south korea 2 department of energy and materials engineering dongguk university seoul seoul south korea 3 national science museum ministry of science ict and future planning daejeon south korea 4 department of forestry north eastern regional institute of science and technology nirjuli india 5 department of microbiology dolphin pg college ofscience  agriculture fatehgarh sahib india 6 college of pharmacy chungnam national university daejeon south koreathis study was undertaken to assess the antibacterial potential of a polyphenolic compound -lariciresinol isolated from rubia philippinensis against selected foodborne pathogens staphylococcus aureus kctc1621 and escherichia coli o157h7.

