each group was treated with bacteriophage zrp1 group p ciprofloxacin lactate group a or phosphate-buffered solution pbs group n. another 15 healthy rabbits composed the control group group c. the body weight gain decreased significantly but the white blood cell wbc count especially the percentage of large wbcs and the serum endotoxin levels increased significantly after infection.

based on the body weights and wbc counts the 45 rabbits were equally divided into three groups negative control group group n phage-therapy group group p and antibiotic-therapy group group a. after grouping rabbits were immediately orally treated with 1 ml pbs 1 ml bacteriophage zrp1 1 1011 pfuml and 1 ml ciprofloxacin lactate 20 mgml respectively.

the control group group c comprised 15 rabbits free of experimental infection with e. coli.

several studies demonstrated that a single orally administrated bacteriophage or bacteriophage cocktail reduced the levels of pathogenic bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract of sheep or mice experimentally infected with e. coli     and decreased the rate of diarrhea and the mortality of poultry in farms  .rabbits have suffered from colibacillosis caused by enteropathogenic e. coli epec since the beginning of the 1980s  .

the integrity of the epithelia was indistinct and debris attached to e. coli was observed which indicated inflammation and hemorrhage.status of rabbits in stage 1slight reduction of body weight was observed in the infected group.

however these rabbits exhibited only half of the body weight gain than what was observed in the healthy animals p  0.05. a significant increase of blood leukocytes especially neutrophils occurred after infection in group b compared to the control group p  0.05. the endotoxin concentration in the infected rabbits doubled post-infection p  0.05. data mentioned above are presented in .status of rabbits in stage 2forty-five infected rabbits were equally divided into three homogeneous groups with very similar weight wbc or w-lcr values and serum lps concentrations.

group p possessed 39 orders including 13 orders in particular while groups c n and a possessed 19 28 and 24 orders respectively.the relative abundance of enterobacteriales in group n increased significantly however those of the clostridiales and ys2 significantly decreased.

that is to say the high level of burkholderiales and the low level of rf39 and ys2 of group n or group a raised their scores in the pc2 axis.

in this study 45 rabbits were equally divided into three groups after they were orally inoculated with pathogenic escherichia coli to induce gut infection.

the result of microscopic examination of the ileum showed that e. coli zr1 adhered to villi and caused hemorrhage inside the villi.

the results demonstrated that oral administration of bacteriophage can cure gut infection with minimal impact on the cecal microbiota.keywords bacteriophage phage therapy rabbit colibacillosis microbiotaintroductioncolibacillosis caused by pathogenic escherichia coli and characterized by diarrhea or systematic infection is a common bacteriosis and generates huge economic losses in the animal husbandry industry.

group b was composed of 45 rabbits that were orally inoculated with 1 ml 1 1010 cfuml ofe.

coli zr1.

in the second stage of the experiment group b rabbits were weighed and their blood samples were collected for wbc count at 3 days post-infection.

group c rabbits received 1 ml pbs orally each time in order to create the same physical stress in those rabbits.

