the bars represent the sds of assays performed in triplicate.optimization of the preparation conditions for the bacterial consortium using rsma shows that the number of live bacteria and the chlorimuron- ethyl degradation rate peaked at 3 d. the effects of inoculum quantity on the activity of the fermentation liquid at the optimal temperature for chlorimuron-ethyl degradation are presented in b which shows that the yield of live bacteria and the chlorimuron-ethyl degradation rate peaked 1.22x1010 cfu ml-1 and 81.63 respectively when3.0 ml of inoculum was used.

ns-ce natural soil contaminated with 20 mg kg-1 chlorimuron-ethyl ns-ce-b natural soil contaminated with 20 mg kg-1 chlorimuron-ethyl and inoculated with the bacterial consortium.remediation of chlorimuron-ethyl-contaminated soil by a bacterial consortiumchlorimuron-ethyl degradation in experimental soilthe results of the effects of the bacterial consortium dosage in the soil on the chlorimuron-ethyl degradation rate showed that the degradation efficiency peaked when the dosage was 1 g kg-1 fig.

the mixed culture of d310-1 and d310-5 11 had a higher degradation rate 84.72 indicating that synergy occurred between the two bacterial strains and accelerated the degradation of chlorimuron-ethyl.preparation of the chlorimuron-ethyl-degrading bacterial consortiumno growth inhibition between the two chlorimuron-ethyl-degrading strainsthe chlorimuron-ethyl-degrading strains d310-1 and d310-5 were co-fermented to prepare the chlorimuron-ethyl-degrading bacterial consortium.

the chlorimuron-ethyl degradation rate reached 80.02 after 60 d demonstrating that the application of the chlorimuron-ethyl- degrading bacterial consortium could promote the degradation of chlorimuron-ethyl in the soil and reduce its phytotoxicity to wheat.

all of the samples were processed and the degradation rates were determined as described in .remediation of chlorimuron-ethyl-contaminated soil by a bacterial consortiumoptimization of the dosage of the bacterial consortium added to the soilthe dosage of the bacterial consortium added to the soil was optimized in a greenhouse.

the degradation of chlorimuron-ethyl in chlorimuron-ethyl-contaminated soil with or without the addition of bacterial consortium was monitored  and a remarkable difference in the amount of residual chlorimuron-ethyl between treat- ments was identified in the presence of the bacterial consortium.

the microbial community was evaluated by illumina miseq sequen- cing which showed that inoculation with the bacterial consortium could somewhat alter the bacterial community composition of chlor- imuron-ethyl-contaminated soil and that the chlorimuron-ethyl-degrad- ing bacteria in the bacterial consortium could survive and play an important role in the degradation of chlorimuron-ethyl.

the second-order polynomial equation is as followsy  81.9  0.69a  1.23b  0.98c - 1.47ab - 1.42ac  1.82bc - 9.5a2- 22.85b2 - 2.13c2where y is the degradation rate a b and c are independent factors ab ac and bc are interaction factors and a2 b2 and c2 are the quadratic terms.the experimental parameters and the coded levels of the indepen- dent variables for chlorimuron-ethyl degradation are illustrated in table s4.

efficient degradation of chlorimuron-ethyl by a bacterial consortium and shifts in the aboriginal microorganism community during the bioremediation of contaminated-soilchunyan li tongyang lv wanjun liu hailian zang yi cheng dapeng lia college of resources and environment northeast agricultural university harbin 150030 heilongjiang pr chinab college of science china agricultural university beijing 100083 pr chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords chlorimuron-ethyl bioremediationrhodococcus sp.

to improve the degradation efficiency of the bacterial consortium the cultivation conditions were optimized using response surface methodology rsm.

the maximum biodegradation rate 87.42 was obtained under optimal conditions carbon concentration 9.21 g l-1 temperature 26.15 degc ph 6.95. the rate of chlorimuron-ethyl degradation by the bacterial consortium in the chlorimuron-ethyl-contaminated soil was monitored and reached 80.02 at the end of a 60-d incubation period.

the fermentation medium mixed culture conditions and preparation protocol for the bacterial consortium were optimized by response surface methodology rsm to improve the degradation rate.

the degradation conditions of the bacterial consortium were optimized detailed experimental methods are provided as supplementary material.

the analyses indicated that the optimal cultivationconditions for mixed bacterial consortium cultures required a carbon concentration of 9.12 g l-1 a temperature of 26.15 degc and a ph of 6.95.the degradation rate increased to 87.42 under the optimized cultivation conditions.

2. the effects of the culture conditions on the viable counts of the bacterial consortium and the degradation rate.

