The purpose of the study was to carry out a series of experiments comparing the properties of the US-made probiotic formulation originally commercialized under the brand name VSL3r with those of the Italian-made formulation now commercialized under the same name.

The US-made formulation has previously shown beneficial effects at the intestinal and neurological levels in HIV- infected subjects as well as in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases and hepatic encephalopathy.Methods Eleven subjects receiving combined antiretroviral therapy for HIV-1 were treated for 6 months with the US-made VSL3 formulation.

The fecal metabolome was assessed using 1H-NMR spectroscopy.

The immunological and biochemical profile of the final product can be further modified by the fact that the bacteria are incorporated into numerous carrier matrices which influence the bacterial metabolic pathways especially short-chain fatty acid production and tryptophan metabolism  .In the specific case of benefits from probiotic treatment observed in the intestinal tract and the central nervous system in patients receiving combined antiretroviral therapy cART the probiotic formulation produced at DupontDanisco in the US and containing the strains Lactobacillus plantarum DSM24730 Streptococcus thermophilus DSM24731 Bifidobacterium breve DSM24732 Lactobacillus paracasei DSM24733 Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp.

The human data are supported by observations in monkeys experimentally infected with Simian immunodeficiency virus SIV - and the same formulation is under evaluation in the multicenter trial ACTG A5350.

The inclusion criteria were i to have signed the informed consent ii men at least 18 years of age iii receiving cART ivwith HIV-1 RNA  37 copiesml and CD4 T counts  400 cells mm3.

The suspension was incubated at 95degC for 5 min and DNA was purified according to the manufacturer's instructions.

The fluorescent products were detected at the last step of each of 40 cycles.

The water residual signal was suppressed by pre- saturation while broad signals from slowly tumbling molecules were removed by including a CPMG Carr-Purcell- Meiboom- Gill filter to a free induction decay sequence.

The filter was made up by a train of 400 echoes separated by 0.8 ms for a total time of 328 ms. Each spectrum was acquired by summing up 256 transients using 32 K data points over a 7211.54 Hz spectral for an acquisition time of 2.27 s. In order to apply NMR as a quantitative technique  the recycle delay was set to 5 s taking into consideration the longitudinal relaxation time of the protons under investigation.Fecal Metabolome Data AnalysisThe 1H-NMR spectra were adjusted for baseline irregulari- ties as explained elsewhere .

