con control mice dss mice administered only dss d-esm8 mice administered dss and esm 80 g kg-1.

con control mice dss mice administered only dss d-esm8 mice administered dss and esm 80 g kg-1.

con control mice dss mice administered only dss d-esm8 mice administered dss and esm 80 g kg-1.

con control mice dss mice administered only dss d-esm8 mice administered dss and esm 80 g kg-1.

in our present results the significantly high gastrocnemius muscle weights in the d-esm8 mice indicate a lower energy demand than that in the dss group thereby inhibiting the degradation of muscle tissue which was also reflected by high levels of plasma amino acids and the recovery of the tca-cycle intermediates in the d-esm8 group.consistent with the proteome results our metabolome analysis revealed high tca cycle and glycolysis inter- mediates in the livers of the dss mice indicating a hepatic accumulation of these intermediates.

the percent variations by the unweighted metric of the con dss and d-esm8 groups were 21.10 7.27 and 13.13 respectively 7c which indi- cates that rare bacteria altered the community structure of these groups.the clustering of the con dss and d-esm8 groups by the weighted unifrac distances showed 62.36 3.23 and 20.38 variations respectively indicating that bacterial communities were more evident d. regardless of the rare and abundant bacteria these data suggest that microbial communities are differentially improved by esm indicating that the changes in microbiome diversity may be related to the anti-inflammatory effects of esm.increased enterobacteriaceae which is a marker of intestinal inflammation and oxidative stress in human ibd and murine colitis was detected significantly more frequently in the inflammatory dss groups proteobacteria phylum reaching 39 of the total bacteria compared to the con group suppl.

5.0 software to determine the gene expression ratios for the con versus dss mice and for the dss versus d-esm8 mice.

exposure of dss-treated mice to esm also down-regulated the gene expression levels of the matrix metalloproteinase mmp family mmp7 and mmp9 and up-regulated the gene expression of tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase timp2 and timp3 which are involved in the breakdown of the extracellular matrix and tissue remodeling in normal physiological processes and disease progression.in addition the expression levels of the genes coding for antimicrobial peptides and microbial growth related genes lipocalin-2 lcn2 regenerating islet-derived 3 gamma reg3g s100 calcium binding protein s100a8 s100a9 and formyl peptide receptor 1 fpr1 as well as an oxidative activity-associated gene nitric oxide synthase 2 nos2 were also lower in the d-esm8 group compared to the dss group 3b.consistent with the esm's regulatory action in caco-2 cells the esm diet attenuated the transcription levels of critical intestinal epithelial proliferation- and restitution-related genes which are involved in the migration of cells homing organization of the cytoskeleton proliferation of cells and necrosis suppl.

results are mean- se in each group n 8. data with different letters abc are significantly different at p  0.05 by dunnett's test.the d-esm8 mice compared to that of the dss mice 5b and there was also a tendency p  0.09 for low levels of il-6 in the media of 48 h-incubated mlns 5c.

the level of segmented filamentous bacteria sfb 5d which promoted the differentiation of th17 cells was significantly higher in the dss group compared to that of the control mice and this high sfb abundance was reversed in the d-esm8 group.

normal control mice con group were given the ain-93g basal diet and drinking water without dss for the entire course of the experiment.the dai was monitored every day after the start of the dss-water administration using three scores for body weight stool consistency and fecal blood of the mice then calculated by averaging these three scores.

only non- significant differences in the total food and water intake before dss-drinking were observed among the three groups and in the dss intake water intake after dss administration between the dss and d-esm8 groups suppl.

bacteroidetes decreased from 67.0 in con to 34.6 in dss and recovered to 55.2 in esm firmicutes from 26.5 to 13.7 and to 18.6 proteobacteria from 0.9 to 40 and to 8 7a respectively.we then assessed two classifications of bacterial diversity termed a and b. according to the a-diversity rare- faction plot analysis using observed species and the shannon index the dss mice exhibited the lowest speciesfigure 7. effects of esm on microbiota dysbiosis and structure as revealed by the metagenome analysis.a phylum level of microbiota profiling .

the d-esm8 mice revealed low susceptibility to these patholog- ical conditions of ibd resulting in a significant amelioration of dai from day 7. in addition a significant loss of crypts and inflammatory cell infiltration into the mucosa were observed in the he-stained colon sections of the dss group whereas esm supplementation revealed clear re-epithelialization of ulcerated areas 2g.variations in the colonic gene expression profile.

all of these up-regulated genes il1b il6 cxcl9 cxcl13 ccl9 and ccl11 in the dss group were suppressed in the d-esm8 group 3a.

