a total of 21024 otus were identified based on the 97 identity cut-off.the distribution of the identified otus across the samples and the calculated a-diversity indices  shows that the treated activated sludge samples was ers and wps were characterised by a high microbial diversity compared with the other samples.

this separated lineage is subdivided into three lineages that separate the fish food and azocasein samples and the wf.phyla level similarities between t. tubifex- predated substratesin order to explore the taxonomic diversity of the microbial communities in the different samples the rdp identifier was used to assign sequence tags to the different taxonomic levels ranging from phylum to genus .a total of 11 abundant phyla were detected across the different samples.

in contrast with sludge predation predation of fish food resulted in an increase in diversity compared to the un-predated sub- strate and contained a more diverse microbial commu- nity compared to the wf.the relation between otus and the number of sequences  shows that the non-sludge samples have a lower microbial diversity compared with the sludge samples.

in accordance with the a-diversity indices  the microbial composition of the treated sludge samples was similar and larger in diver- sity compared with the diversity in the wf fish food and azocasein samples.

predation of the fish food samples resulted in the appearance of firmicutes 2-3 and a change in abundancy from bacteroidetes 90 to pro- teobacteria 64.the passage of sludge through the gut of t. tubifex resulted in a reduction from 11 to 4 abundant phyla in the wf the dominant phylum of actinobacteria 44 in was was replaced by bacteroidetes 36 andfigure 3. the microbial community of the nine samples on the phyla level.proteobacteria 64 consisting of g-proteobacteria 44 b-proteobacteria 15 and a-proteobacteria 5 in the wf.

this suggests that protein degradation during worm gut passage leads to a similar microbial composition as com- pared with the resulting microbial composition after worm gut passage of was a protein-rich substrate.genus-level differences between t. tubifex- predated substratesin order to gain more insight into the microbial compo- sition after gut passage heat maps were constructedthat compares the wf with the sludge samples  and with the protein samples .notable changes in abundancy were observed for the actinobacteria - candidatus microthrix that declined in abundancy from 40 in was to 0 in the wf.

nineteen genera were selected for comparison based on the presence in the faecal samples and the abundance in the protein-rich samples.

more specific within the fish food samples predation of the fish food broth fb resulted in a population shift from flavobacterium 90 to the 'other' flavobacteriia 25-28 in the pre- dated fish food samples fs and ff.within the proteobacteria phylum genus-level differ- ences were mainly with the g-proteobacteria phylum.

the dominant acinetobacter genus in the wf 40 was 'replaced' by lysobacter in the predated fish food samples ff 25 and fs 9. the b-proteobacteria massilia was present in the wf 15 while low in abun- dance 1 in the predated protein samples.

reactor performance data can be found elsewhere .dna sample preparation and collectionsludge samples were obtained from freshly obtained was and at the end of the 4-day batch incubation period.

samples were stored at -24degc.

fish food samples were acquired by dissolving 5 g of crushed tetra min fish food flakes in 0.5 l of aerated tap water at room temp- erature and incubating for a period of 20 days.

sub- sequently samples of this broth were collected and frozen at -24degc.part of the fish food broth was fed to 10 g freshly acquired worms that did not have prior contact with waste water nor sludge.

after 15 days of incubation with worms the predated fish food broth samples were frozen at -24degc.

summarises the samples analysed for microbial community composition.azocasein was also used as a protein-rich substrate.

