relationships between abundance and diversity of the archaeal and bacterial amoa genes and environmental parametersthe abundance of the archaeal amoa gene was negatively correlated with ph p  0.05 table whereas the abundance of bacterial amoa gene was positively correlated with ph p  0.05. additionally significant positive correlations between the abundance of bacterial amoa genes and tp or nh -n were also found p  0.01. however these correlations were not significant for the archaeal amoa gene table additionally a significant positive correla- tion was found between the pnrs and the abundance of the bacterial amoa gene.

three to seven otus were detected for each archaeal amoa gene clone library whereas the number of detected otus for the bacterial amoa gene clone library ranged from three to nine table for the archaeal amoa gene clone libraries rhizosphere sediment sample of p. communis had remarkably lower diversity than those of the unvegetated sediments and the rhizosphere sediment samples of z. caduciflora.figure 1 the numbers of archaeal black columns and bacterial gray columns amoa gene copies in rhizosphere sediments of two different emergent macrophytes pcrs zcrs and the bulk sediments bs.

in this study higher pnrs were found in the rizhosphere sediments of both emergent macrophytes table and were positively correlated with the abundance of bacterial but not archaeal amoa gene table these results suggested thattable 3 pearson correlation coefficients between environmental parameters and the abundance or the numbers of detected otus of the archaeal and bacterial amoa genecn ratio carbon nitrogen ratio tp total phosphorus no3-n nitrate nitrogen nh4-n ammonia nitrogen pnr potential nitrification rates.p  0.05 p  0.01.figure 2 phylogenetic affiliations of the archaeal a and bacterialb amoa gene sequences obtained from the rhizosphere sediment samples of the two emergent macrophytes p. communis z. caduciflora and bulk sediments.

moreover the positive relationship between the bacterial amoa gene abundance and the ph found in the present study was consistent with previous results found inthe soil ecosystem the concentrations of nh -n were correlated with the abundance of the bacterial amoa gene r  0.759 p  0.01 which was also consistent with previous studies in the present study more than half 69.77 of the obtained archaeal amoa gene sequences were affiliated with the nitrosotalea cluster.

a series of 110 dilutions ranging from 2.07 x 102 to 2.07 x 107 per microliter of the archaeal amoa gene copies and 1.45 x 102 to 1.45 x 107 per microliter of the bacterial amoa gene copies were used to generate standard curves for quantifying the abundance of archaeal and bacterial amoa genes.

the archaeal amoa gene was found in remarkably higher abundance than the bacterial amoa gene in bulk sediments and the p. communis rhizosphere sediments.

found that the archaeal amoa gene was 3000-fold higher in abundance than the bacterial amoa gene in the original and agricultural soil samples in three climate zones.

showed that the abundance of the archaeal amoa gene was significantlyhigher than that of bacterial amoa gene in the rhizosphere sediments of submerged macrophytes of lake taihu.

phylogenetic analysis of the archaeal and bacterial amoa gene sequencesbased on the sequences from this study neighbor-joining phylogenetic trees of the archaeal a and bacterial b amoa genes were obtained supporting information fig.

we used the arch-amoafarch-amoar primers for the archaeal amoa gene and amoa-1famoa-2r primers for the bacterial amoa gene.

diversity indices of shannon-weiner h and bias-corrected chao1 schao1 were calculated for each library using the dotur software package  nucleotide sequence accession numberssequence data have been deposited in genbank database under accession numbers kx585865-kx585881 archaeal amoa gene and kx585882-kx585899 bacterial amoa gene.

also found that the biofilm-associated pnrs were positively correlated with the numbers of bacterial amoa gene copies but not with archaeal amoa gene copies.

statistical analysisthe one-way anova and post hoc comparison test duncan's multiple range test with spss 17.0 package spss chicago il were used to evaluate the statistical differences of sediment properties and the archaeal or bacterial amoa gene abundance among the different samples.

they found an increased abundance of bacterial but not archaeal amoa gene in the rhizosphere sediments of submerged macrophytes.

abundance of the archaeal and bacterialamoa genesthe rhizosphere sediments of p. communis pcrs showed significantly higher numbers of archaeal amoa gene black columns fig.

