the heterogeneity of cutaneous-resident t cells in murine and human skin is highlighted in table 1.t cells in murine skinin a steady state murine t cells reside predominantly at the epidermal-dermal junction figure 1. the epidermis contains a unique population of gd t cells called dendritic epidermal t cells detcs havran et al.

2011. both cd8 and cd4 t cells the latter comprising regulatory t cells treg and nonregulatory t cells exhibit strong tropism for the hair follicle region figure 1 suggesting that the hair follicle is critical in regulating skin residence of these tissue-resident memory t cells trm chow et al.

the critical roles of ab and gd t cells in the contexts of defense against skin infections host-microbiome interactions and skin damage will be discussed in this review article.suwanpradid et al.page 3the cutaneous t-cell repertoire in human skinboth epidermal and dermal gd and ab t cells are present in noninflamed human skinhowever cutaneous gd t cells are approximately 300 times less abundant than ab t cells clark et al.

one subset coexpresses l-selectin cd62l whereas the other subset does notthe latter subset has been termed migratory memory t cells park and kupper 2015. in addition healthyhuman skin also harbors foxp3 memory regulatory t cells termed mtreg cells residing around hair follicles where they contribute to immune homeostasis or if dysregulated can mediate immunopathology chow et al.

2012. the composition and function of cutaneous t cells can change dramatically onenvironmental insults and may be driven by both antigen exposure and innate immune signals derived from surrounding keratinocytes dendritic cells macrophages and other cells iwasaki and medzhitov 2015 schroder et al.

notably in response to c. albicans stimulation skin-homing t cells isolated from human blood produce il-9 to enhance effector function of il-9-producing t helper type 9 th9 cells and other effector t cells.

langerhans cells protect from allergic contact dermatitis in mice by tolerizing cd8 t cells and activating foxp3 regulatory t cells.

dynamics and function of langerhans cells in vivo dermal dendritic cells colonize lymph node areas distinct from slower migrating langerhans cells.

2001.under homeostatic conditions ab tcr t cells comprise approximately 40-50 of all dermal t cells cai et al.

2015. epidermal trm are comprised predominantly of cd8 t cells and similar to detcs these cells typically bear the a-chain of the integrin aeb7 and cd103 and express the activation marker cd69 adachi et al.

2012. based on recent studies on one hand the microbiome can enhance protective immunity against pathogens may be driven by cutaneous t cells and may include additional immune cells.

2014. upon viral infection clusters of ifn-g-producing cd4 t cells surrounding hair follicles appear and contain ccl5-producing apcs aswell cd8 t cells that increase cd4 t-cell recruitment into the skin collins et al.

human skin from newborns but not from adults harbors effector t cells that produce high levels of il-8 cxcl8 to activate antimicrobial neutrophils and gd t cells gibbons et al.

2011. cutaneous treg cells regulate the transition from woundinflammation to the anti-inflammatory repair phase as these cells promote wound repairthrough controlling overt inflammation and proinflammatory macrophage accumulation in murine skin wounds nosbaum et al.

2013. whether treg cells also control cutaneous wound repair in humans has not been fully elucidated.skin t cells and uv radiationsolar uv radiation is a major environmental stressor causing skin damage.

