b andc a chest computed tomography scan showed a large left pleural effusion with left pulmonary consolidation and atelectasis.admission the volume of chest drainage had been less than 10 ml for 3 consecutive days and no pleural effusion was detected by chest ultrasound so the drainage tube was removed.two weeks later the patient began to show abdominal distention and abdominal paroxysmal colic.

because the patient was previously in good health with no significant abdominal pain bloating bloody stools or other gastrointestinal symptoms and furthermore because the empy- ema occurred suddenly and severely the abdominal symptoms and signs were obscured.

among infections an empyema caused by colon cancer is a rare but potentially life-threatening condition.1-5 here we report a case of empyema resulting from a colopleural fistula secondary to colon cancer.case reporta 42-year-old man was brought to our emergency department for chest pain with dyspnea and fever.

during laparotomic surgery we found a moderate amount of clear yellowish ascites and an 8 cm 6 cm tumor located in the splenic flexure of the descending colon 3. the tumor penetrated the colonic serosa and invaded the left side of the diaphragm.

thepatient underwent a left hemicolectomy with dissection of the lymph nodes and the invaded left diaphragm.

47 if the tumor is located at the splenic flexure of the colon it may invade the left diaphragm.

to our knowledge only 6 cases have been reported 1.1-5 only 2 cases of empyema caused by a colo-pleural fistula have been reported in japanese literature.34 in both cases the tumors were located in the transverse colon and the empyema occurred in the left thoracic cavity.

one day before the patient had a sudden onset of sharp pain in the left chest with dyspnea chest distress palpitation and fever.

the patient presented with tachypnea decreased respiratory mobility and vocal fremitus in the left chest.

a chest radio- graph and computed tomography ct scan showed a large left pleural effusion with a shift of the mediastinum and trachea to the right side 1. the patient underwent thoracentesis and approximately 2000 ml of foul-smelling muddy fluid was drained.

an abdominal ct scan showed a mass in the splenic flexure of the colon with local wall thickening luminal stenosis and proximal intestinal expansion 2. a colonoscopic biopsy showed a tubular adenoma with severe dysplasia.

an abdominal computed tomo- graphy scan showed a mass in the splenic flexure of the colon with local wall thickening luminal stenosis and proximal intestine expansion.figure 4. a histological examination showed that the excised tumor tissue was composed of moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma cells.

in the literature the rate of abscess formation due to colon cancer perforation is 3-4.the perforation of colorectal cancer usually occurs in the abdominal cavity.

a blood test revealed leukocytosis white blood cell count 26 109cellsl neutrophils 93.9. a standing plain abdominal radiograph showed multiple intra- abdominal gas-liquid planes.

a polyp is located in the sigmoid colon.ed the surface of the visceral peritoneum with no lymph node metastasis 047. after the operation the patient recovered smoothly and was discharged on postoperative day 14.the final diagnoses were empyema caused by colo-pleural fistula and colonfigure 2. abdominal radiological images.

