Furthermore all host-microbiome co-cul- tures are carried out in only 24 h which may not be sufficient to extrapolate their results to quantitatively predict the tran- scriptional and metabolic characteristics in human host- microbiome crosstalk.Finally the microengineered human gut-on-a-chip model    provides a 3D lumen-capillary tissue interface in two juxtaposed microchannels separated by an ECM-coated flexible porous PDMS membrane lined by human intestinal Caco-2 epithelium Fig.

Nature Reviews Cancer 175 271-285.Stringer A. M. Gibson R. J. Logan R. M. Bowen J. M. Yeoh A. S.  Keefe D. M. 2008.

Here we add one more tricky question BWhat is the role of human the gut microbiome in gastrointestinal GI homeostasis and diseases Indeed there have been burgeoning interests in the human gut microbiome and its key functions in metabolic e.g.

Characterization of the human colon carcinoma cell line Caco-as a model system for intestinal epithelial permeability.Gastroenterology 963 736-749.Roselli M. Finamore A. Britti M. S.  Mengheri E. 2006.

Along with the success of 3D organoid cultures of human tissues there have been multiple attempts to co-culture the human microbiome with organoids.

However most of the human microbiome is in direct contact to host cells thus spatially segregated growth of host and microbial cells is physiologically questionable.Another recent model named the BHuMiX human-micro- bial crosstalk consists of a stacked assembly of elastomeric gaskets separated by a nanoporous membrane for co-culturing human intestinal epithelium Caco-2 and microbial cells rep- licating the host-microbe GI interface Fig.

Ultimately the successful integration of organoid cul- tures and organs-on-chips can be a game changer to investi- gate detailed roles of the human microbiome on orchestrating the disease pathogenesis where all the microbial and host cells obtained from human individuals can reflect various ge- netic demographic or epidemiological backgrounds.

In addition recruitment of various human cohort samples obtained from individuals with different ages raceethnicities family histories of IBD ortherapeutic histories will be a great opportunity to discover better IBD models that can contribute to identify novel IBD therapeutic interventions such as the FMT.ConclusionThe host-gut microbiome interaction plays an important role germane to the maintenance of human health and the devel- opment of diseases.

However thus far only about 40 xenobiotic drugs have been investigated to study the impact of the gut microbiome on drug metabolism .Since the biogeography of gut microbiome is dramatically changed by the diet medication or environmental factors   drug metabolism by the host cells as well as the gut microbiome should be simultaneously contemplated for validating the drug candidates during the drug development process.

A recent study reports that silk fibrin-based 3D scaffolding reproduces the villi-like microarchitecture of the human small intestine where a mixed population of Caco-2 absorptive and HT29- MTX mucus secretory epithelial cells successfully attenu- ates on this artificial gut in co-culture with primary human intestinal myofibroblasts  Fig.

