in fact commensal colonization of the fetus by commensal bacteria may be involved in the inductionof endotoxin tolerance for future exposure to bacteria the prevention of subsequent pathogen access to the host cells and the preparation of the neonatal gut for nutrition .preterm birthpreterm birth ptb constitutes the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in newborns worldwide .

a possible explanation for this observation is that antibiotics can produce a deleterious effect not only on pathogenic bacteria but also on beneficial bacteria of the reproductive tract.chorioamnionitischorioamnionitis is an obstetrical complication caused by the inflammation of the fetal membranes produced by bacterial infection.

these molecular techniques take advantage of the 16s rrna gene that is unique to bacteria and contains a number of hypervariable regions that serve as unique identifiers for a genus or species of bacterium.

although costly whole genome sequencing allows for full discovery of an organism genome and may yield information about functional differ- ences of bacteria in a community.metagenomic sample sequencing produces read lengths of variable size depending on what sequencing platform is used.

the fact that these biofilms exist from the vagina to the fallopian tubes allows complex and dynamic interactionsbetween the gametes and embryo as well as the maternal tissue interface .characterization of the microbiome in the reproductive tracthistorically the uterus was assumed to be free of bacteria and most of the data on the reproductive tract are based on vaginal samples.

more than 70 of women demonstrated vaginal microbiota dominated by l. crispatus l. gasseri l. iners or l. jensenii corresponding to cst-i -ii -iii and -v. a smaller proportion of women exhibit cst-iv characterized by lower percentage of lactobacilli and dominance of anaerobic bacteria including aerococcus atopobium dialister gardnerella megasphaera prevotella and sneathia .data on the normal upper genital tract microbiome are not as prevalent .

however the upper genital tract micro- biome has been characterized by quantitative polymerase chain reaction qpcr detection of bacteria in 95 of endo- metrial samples in asymptomatic women undergoing hyster- ectomy .

of note the upper genital tract microbiome is quantitatively and qualitatively different from that of the lower genital tract however the qpcr data targeted only a limited number of bacteria .a study using next-generation sequencing of the 16s rrna gene has compared the vaginal and endometrial micro- biota of asymptomatic and fertile nonpregnant women .

in approximately one fifth of the women analyzed the bacteria community identified in the endometrium varied greatly from that in the vagina suggest- ing that the endometrial and vaginal microbiota are not identical .endometrial microbiota in health and diseasephysiological endometrial microbiome in reproductive-age womenseveral studies have now reported that the endometrium pos- sesses a functional microbiome in physiological conditions .

with advances in the detection of bacteria through cultivation-independent tech- niques that enable the characterization of low biomass micro- biota the endometrial microbiome has been studied more carefully.like the normal vaginal microbiota the endometrium of healthy and asymptomatic women is often dominated by lac- tobacilli .

however lactobacillus-deficient communities have been identified in the genital tract of otherwise healthy and asymptomatic women  suggesting that in the absence of pathological signs a non-lactobacillus-domi- nated microbiota could be considered normal.the similarity between the bacterial taxa found in endo- metrial and vaginal samples of healthy nonpregnant women supports the hypothesis that the colonization of the uterine cavity mainly comes from bacteria ascending from the va- gina.

in those cases sam- pling the endometrium is crucial to accurately diagnose the microbiological state of the uterus rather than extrapolate the microbiota of the upper genital tract from bacteria identi- fied in the lower genital tract.

ce is characterized by the continuing inflam- mation of the endometrial mucosa produced by the colonization of the uterus by common bacteria namely enterococcus faecalis escherichia coli gardnerella vaginalis klebsiella pneumoniae proteus spp.

consistently bacteria from the streptococcaceae and staphylococcaceae families were significantly increased in the cystic fluid obtained from women with ovarian endo- metrioma compared with controls .

bacterial infections have been implicated in colorectal cancer by sequencing of fuso- bacteria and porphyromonas .

