therefore the potential effect of minocycline in lfd rats may be related to modulation in microbiota composition rather than a direct anti-inflammatory effect.antibiotics-driven modulation of gut microbiota has traditionally been conducted via oral delivery of broad spectrum antibiotics at doses ranging from 40 to 500 mg daily membrez et al.

minocycline alone led to significant reduction in erysipelotrichales and several proteobacteria and cyanobacteria orders figs 2c 2d.pca showed that after 7 days lfd and hfd rats had different microbiota profile minocycline treatment resulted in a third profile with more variabilities based on the diet consumed lfd vs. hfd fig.

normalization of microbiota composition via minocycline blunted the effects of hfd on hindbrain inflammation energy intake and adiposity which let us to conclude that a hfd triggered shift in gut microbiome may disrupt vagal gut-brain communication resulting in microglia activation and increased body fat accumulation leading to obesity.acknowledgmentsthis work was supported by nih 1r01dc013904 grant wsucvm intramural grants programs and uga start- up funds.referencesamin b hajhashemi v hosseinzadeh h. minocycline potentiates the anti-hyperalgesic effect of ceftriaxone in cci-induced neuropathic pain in rats.

normalization of the microbiota composition in hfd rats using minocycline was protective against hfd-induced neuronal damage and increase in adiposity showing that gut microbiota dysbiosis is necessary for hfd-driven deleterious effects on gut-brain signaling.

minocycline and hfd had opposite modulatory effects on several orders abundance including erysipelotrichales and enterobacteriales and hfdminocycline rats exhibited normalized microbiota composition with microbiome profile comparable to the lfd rats.our data support a diet-associated and bacteria-driven gut to brain pathway promoting hindbrain inflammation however descending brain to gut communication may also modulate the gut microbiota.

2013 therefore we cannot rule out a possible indirect effect of minocycline on microbiota composition in hfd rats via changes in vagal efferent output.conclusionstaken together the results show that hfd induces changes in the diversity of the intestinal microbiota and alters the gut-brain communication resulting in inflammation of the hindbrain feeding centers associated with overeating overweight and increased in body fat accumulation.

while our study did not establish whether gut microbiota dysbiosis is sufficient to promote vagal remodeling colonization of germ free animals with dysbiotic microbiota has previously been found to induce hypothalamic inflammation duca et al.

minocycline reduced energy intake after one week of treatment and there was no effect of minocycline on body fat or body weight gain at day 7 figs 1a-1c.

minocycline reduced thecaloric intake in lfd rats only in the first week a. however between the 8th and 21st dayof the experiment this effect was abolished a. minocycline did not affect body fatvaughn et al.page 16accumulation and body weight of lfd rats b c. bars represent the average value -sem a b c - different letters denote significant differences.vaughn et al.page 17fig.

c similar results were observed after 21 days of minocycline treatment minocycline led to normalization or depletion of hfd-associated bacterial orders and restored hfd-depleted orders.minocycline alone led to a significant reduction in erysipelotrichales firmicutes and several proteobacteria and cyanobacteria orders such as rhodocyclales and chroococcales.vaughn et al.page 19fig.

the anti-inflammatory action of minocycline has notably been reported in the brainstem after damage to the vagus nerve gallaher et al.

it has been previously reported that minocycline can suppress body weight gain sun et al.

direct anti- inflammatory effects of minocycline have been reported for doses ranging from 20 to 100 mgkg amin et al.

2012 kumar and addepalli 2011. minocycline may alleviate inflammation via a decrease in bacteria-driven cytokine production.minocycline has been shown to decrease expression of the lps receptor toll-like receptor 4 tlr4 in dorsal horn of spinal cord nazemi et al.

minocycline has been reported to have potential weight-loss effect sun et al.

