The gray dashed line and shading represent the average and standard deviation of fecal luminescence measured over time from mice colonized with wild-type B. thetaiotaomicron under the same regime of aTC exposure n  6 mice for groups treated with 100 mgmL aTC n  2 mice for groups administered lower aTC concentrations.Dose response of the P1T GH023 promoter to varying aTC concentrations in mice.

Grey shading designates days when mice were administered aTC.P1TDPGH023 activity was measured in luminal contents collected along the length of the gastrointestinal tract upper middle and lower small intestine cecum upper and lower large intestine on day 19 from mice in A. Asterisks indicate significant induction p  0.05 as compared to the same GI location in mice colonized with BttetR P1TDPGH023-NanoLuc but not provided aTC in the drinking water.legend continued on next pageAddition of aTC to drinking water does not impact colonization of B. thetaiotaomicron along the length of the gut.

Day 19 CFU measurements from each gastrointestinal section from mice from A are shown n R 4 mice per data point.Community composition of gnotobiotic mice n  6 colonized with BttetR P1TDP GH023-NanoLuc and 13 prominent human gut microbes C does not significantly change in response to aTC.

Free sialic acid concentrations were measured by LC-MS in fecal pellets of germfree mice and gnotobiotic mice monocolonized with Bt3xtetR or Bt3xtetR DBT0455 n  4 mice per group.Because sialidase activity likely provides a benefit to B. thetaiotaomicron by exposing mucosal nutrients BtRS was engineered with multiple copies of tetR to avoid loss of repressor activity by spontaneous mutation.Ex vivo sialidase assay for determination of enzyme activity in fecal pellets.

The gray dashed line and shading represents the average and standard deviation of fecal luminescence measured over time from mice colonized with wild-type B. thetaiotaomicron from A.Inducer-dependent fecal luminescence production by BttetR P1T GH023-NanoLuc in specific pathogen free Rag-- mice carrying a complete microbiota.

After aTC was provided in drinking water fecal sialic acid levels in BtRS mice were equiva- lent to mice colonized with wild-type B. thetaiotaomicron  C S6A and S6E.

Characterization of the Engineered Regulatory Platform In Vivo in Microbial Communities of Varying Complexity Related to Addition of aTC to drinking water does not impact colonization of B. thetaiotaomicron in monocolonized gnotobiotic mice green black and red lines in gnotobiotic mice carrying defined human communities orange line or in the presence of a complete murine microbiota blue line.

thetaiotaomicron or BttetR P1TDP-NanoLuc aTC was given for 48 hr in drinking water on days 3-5 and days 17-19 while mice carrying a human or murine microbiota were given aTC on days 3-5 n R 6 mice per data point.

Gnotobiotic mice monocolonized with Bt3xtetR DBT0455 were gavaged with 5 mg of sialic acid and sialic acid in fecal pellets were measured every 3 hr for 48 hr n  2 - 6 mice per time point.Promoter identificationPromoter alignmentIdentification of permissive sitesfor tetO2 sequencesIntegration of tetR in neutral locationsSubstitution of alternate RBSsTesting and applicationin vivoFigure S7.

Because the inducer is absent in mice and their diets Bacteroides gene expression inside the gut can be modulated by providing the inducer in drinking water.

