although the limited aeration decreased the de- nitrification rates in system a the decrease of no3--n removal was not significant p  0.05. what's more the average total nitrogen re- moval efficiency in system a was 97.03 during the stable period which was higher than system na 90.41. the limited aeration didn't decrease the denitrification rate significantly but increased the average total nitrogen removal efficiency through the prominent in- crease of nh4-n removal efficiency from 63.60 to 91.00. this was consistent with reports that aeration could strengthen nitrogen removal in cws .during the experiment though the no --n and nh -n removalbiomass in cw systems.

and the limited aeration de- creased the growth of the denitrifying bacteria which was anaerobic microorganism.although system a showed higher nitrogen removal efficiency than system na the related microbial abundance revealed no significanttable 2comparison of microbial richness and diversity estimation from the pyrosequencing analysis.difference between cw systems p  0.05. since the performance of nitrogen removal predominately depends on the microbial community structure the effect of limited aeration on microbial community may play an important role in nitrogen removal.microbial community structurepyrosequencing analysis was conducted to analyze the microbial community structure of biofilm on the surface of carbon source.

in order to understand the release variation of carbon source in different systems the effluent cod concentrations in different cw systems are shown in d. in both cw systems the effluent cod increased in the beginning because of the growth of microorganisms.

the phenomena also corresponding author.e-mail address w. wu.1 these authors contributed equally to this work.received 25 may 2017 received in revised form 28 july 2017 accepted 29 july 20170960-8524c2017publishedbyelsevierltd.appeared in  which led to ammonia accumulation inwith 10 mgl nitrate nitrogen no --n and 5 mgl ammonia nitrogeneffluent and decreased the nitrogen removal efficiency.

the aeration systems worked when the oxygen concentrations were lower than0.2 mgl and quit when the oxygen concentrations were higher than0.6 mgl.

the enhanced nh -n removal performance and higher nitrification rate in system a could be attrib- uted to the limited aeration which provided higher do 0.95 - 0.18 mgl than system na 0.23 - 0.11 mgl for the process of nitrification.

the porous ceramsite benefited the circulation34efficiency in the system na and system a varied the effluent nitrite concentrations in the cw systems kept stable and the average no --n concentrations reached 0.16 mgl and 0.07 mgl respectively.

2. treatment performances of system na and system a. a nh4-n concentrations in influent and effluent b no3--n concentrations in influent and effluent c tn con- centrations in effluent d cod concentrations in effluent.the absolute abundance and relative abundance of related genes in biofilm attached on the surface of carbon source samples in different cw systems.

the coverage of microbial species in two samples was higher than 99.23 indicating that the pyrosequencing analysis was trustworthy and effectively reflected the microbial com- munity structure.the ace index evaluating the richness of microbial community obtained a higher value in system a which indicated the higher rich- ness of microbial community in system a. the higher shannon index in the system a indicated that a more diverse microbial community in system a .

higher ammonia removal efficiency 91.00 and total nitrogen removal efficiency 97.03 than non-aerated constructed wetland system na were achieved in constructed wetland with limited aeration system a. the limited aeration decreased the average concentrations of cod in effluent.

shows the nitrogen and cod variation in influent and effluent of different cw systems.

based on the limited studies controlled the oxygen concentration be- tween 0.2 mgl and 0.6 mgl using automated systems.

after 14 days of inoculation the synthetic wastewater with 10.70 - 0.52 mgl no --n and4.56 - 0.25 mgl nh -n was fed to the cw systems directly.

therefore the limited aeration intensified the nh - n removal in system a.the average effluent no3--n concentrations in the system na and system a were 0.24 mgl and 0.68 mgl respectively.

what's more the highest effluent cod in system a 94.17 mgl was lower than that in system na 158.76 mgl and it took more time to reach the peak.

