high acetate production rate .thermoanaerobacteriumintroductionsynthetic gas syngas a gaseous mixture normally contain- ing carbon monoxide co hydrogen h2 and carbon diox- ide co2 is mainly obtained by the conversion of carbona- ceous minerals such as coal oil natural gas coke oven gas and refinery gas latif et al.

pyrolysis or gasification of biomass or sludge also produces a large amount of syngas chao et al.

kan et al.

waste sludge or agricultural wastes that contain lignocellulose can be degraded into syngas by pyrolysis or gasification ongen et al.

syngas is a chemical feedstock for ammonia methanol production via well-established process briens et al.

gasification of biomass is a promising route to produce syn- gas while leaving a less volume of biomass and minimal foot- print compared with anaerobic digestion choi et al.

so gasification is an important solution to the excess sludge and agricultural wastes.acetic acid is an important platform chemical in the chem- ical industry huang et al.

it is used to produce vinyl acetate acetic anhydride acetic ester cellulose acetate and so on berre et al.

acetic acid is mainly produced via carbonylation of methanol while biological production also plays an important role especially in vinegar production talabardon et al.

besides chemistry process and aero- bic biological method to produce vinegar another well-known anaerobic biological way called homoacetogenesis can also produce acetic acid with h2 and co2 which are the maincomponents of syngas straub et al.

recently alves et al.

and several species such as clostridium ljungdahlii acetobacterium woodii and clostridium autoethanogenum have been studied to convert syngas to acetate in pure cul- ture fermentation via the homoacetogenesis process and some species could produce as high as 44 gl cotter et al.

demler and weuster-botz  klemps et al.

however pure culture fermen- tation usually suffers problems like high operation cost strain degeneration and contamination zhang et al.

thus in our recent works we demonstrate volatile fatty acid vfa production from syngas via mixed culture fermentation under mesophilic conditions zhang et al.

