this sample was placed in the fourier transform infrared ftir spectrophotometer shimadzu ir spectrophotometer 8400s japan and the spectra were measured against reference ldpe and hdpe strips which were not exposed to bacterial consortia to obtain a spectrum of percentage of transmittance versus wave number.scanning electron microscopy analysisthe ldpe and hdpe test strips the polymers exposed to bacterial consortia for 120 days were inspected by high- resolution scanning electron microscope model geminr specifications w-filament low vacuum and humidity ca- pability secondary e-t and solid-state back-scattered electron detector ultrathin window energy-dispersive spectroscopy eds system edax and resolution at 20 kv3 nm in high vacuum to inspect the modifications in the surface of the plastic films.

when the strips and pellets were incubat- ed for 120 days with the bacterial consortia the ldpe strips showed a degradation rate of 75.0 - 2 while the pellets degraded by 55.0 - 2. likewise the hdpe strips degraded by 60.0 - 3 while the pellets by 43.0 - 3 by the microbial consortia that contained all the four isolates is1-is4 in com- parison with other formulated consortia using various combi- nations table .

the advent of new absorption bands at 1700 and 1600 cm-1 of the spectra are probably due to the formation of c  o moieties which might have occurred due to the bacterial adhesion to the ldpe strips followed by biodegradation corti et al.

the application of bacterial consortia for effective plastic degradation has been in use for a certain period of time shah et al.

the bacterial colonies cultivated on plates were further subjected to coomassie bril- liant blue stain howard and hilliard  and plastic- degrading bacteria were identified by zone of clearance meth- od dey et al.

demonstrated that the spectra obtained for ldpe strips after a constant period of bacte- rial incubation displayed the weight percent of carbon to be 87.51 while the control sample without bacterial inoculation exhibited a carbon content of 95.93. the spectra chiefly re- vealed carbon peak and a gold peak which is probably due to the gold coating of the plastic strips performed prior to sem analysis.

albeit studies regarding utilizing the cow dung bacteria for biodegradation are limited a study conducted previously disclosed 25 de- crease in weight of the plastic strips incorporated as the sole source of nutrition in liquid media in which samples were gathered from waste disposal sites and drainage sites and soil from sewage sludge were inoculated nanda et al.

likewise for hdpe strips the presence of an extra band at 1550-1400 cm-1 might be due to the formation of c-c moi- ety and bands between 2000 and 2300 cm-1 probably due to the appearance of -c  c-h functional groups which were deficient in the control esmaeili et al.

uncontrolled use of plastics primarily low- and high-density polyethylene ldpe and hdpe for various purposes such as packaging transportation in industry and in agriculture in rural as well as urban areas is a rising concern as the plastic usage surpasses 260 million tons per annum globally barnes et al.

plastic principally polyethylene accounts for 16 of chlorine in the environment and have 54 carcinogens nkwachukwu et al.

previous studies have report- ed the biodegradation of polyethylene by thermophilic brevibacillus borstelensis which grew at 50 degc hadad et al.

furthermore studies carried out in seoul korea re- vealed that the samples collected from crude oil-contaminated soils showed a positive activity against polyethylene powder under similar conditions yoon et al.

thus higher temperatures could be a contributing factor for rapid polyethylene degradation lodhi et al.

elucidation of the chemical changes that take place during the degradation of polyethylene and the correlation of these changes with physical properties paves the way for a better understanding of the degradation mechanism gulmine et al.

polyethylene degradation studies by paenibacillus lautus were reported recently mangwani et al.

