hence we conclude that the mode of action of mg2 ions specifically relates to inhibition of biofilm formation.in b. subtilis biofilm formation depends on synthesis of extracellular matrix whose production is specified by two major operons the epsa-o and tapa-sipw-tasa operons.-the epsa-o operon is responsible for production of the exopolysaccharides and the tapa operon for production and assembly of an amyloid- like fibers.we hypothesized that the dramatic decrease in biofilm formation in the presence of mg2 ions could be due to down-regulation of those genes involved in matrix synthesis.

biofilm formation is a multistage process in which cells produce an extracellular matrix that is typically composed of polysaccharides proteins and nucleic acids.these exopolymeric substances may surround and protect the bacteria.thus biofilm bacteria are considered to be more resistant than planktonic cells to various antimicrobials.biofilms being the potential sources of contam- ination can also increase corrosion rates of metal pipes and equipment often used in the milk industry.

remarkably though enrichment of milk with mgcl2 up to 3 mm slightly affected biofilm formation at a concentration of 5 mm and higher biofilm formation was completely inhibited fig.

to further confirm the assumption that reduced survival of the cells depends on biofilm formation we tested the survival of the depsdtasa double mutant which is unable to form biofilm during heat treatment.

thus one possible explanation of this result is that mg2 ions act downstream to abrb and sinr in the kin-spo0a signal transduction pathway therefore they probablyprevent formation of biofilm bundles by interfering directly withtranscription of the matrix operons.we also investigated whether mg2 ions-mitigated formation of biofilm bundles in other bacillus species that are known to contaminate milk.

a key feature of a biofilm is that it provides protection for the vegetative bacteria as well as for spores within it.therefore the findings of this study regarding mitigation of biofilm formation opens opportunities for important innovations in the food industry for instance development of useful strategies to control microbial food spoilage in order to improve food safety and quality.

to test the effect of magnesium ions on biofilm formation the freshly prepared 1 m solution of mgcl2 merck kgaa darmstadt germany was added directly to the milk at various concentrations.confocal laser scan microscopy clsm analysisfor visualizing b. subtilis biofilm bundles we used the strain yc161 which produced gfp constitutively pspank-gfp.the strain was first grown to early stationary phase for 5 h at 37 degc in shaking culture at 150 rpm in lb medium.

in addition existence of biofilm within the equipment may impair heat transfer and can increase fluid frictional resistance.dairy products form one of the leading sectors impacted byfood loss as nearly 20 of conventionally pasteurized fluid milk is discarded and thereby lost to consumption each year.bovine milk is highly nutritious and this makes it an ideal medium for growth of microorganisms it contains abundant quantities of water and nutrients such as lactose proteins and lipids and has a nearly neutral ph.

however conventional cleaning and disinfection regimes and antimicrobial strategies may be ineffective in controlling biofilm formation and dissemination of resistance.

we recently reported that magnesium ions mg2 affected biofilm formation via down-regulation of the expression of extracellular matrix geneswhich suggests that the molecular mechanism behind the inhibitory effect of mg2 ions is primarily related to expression of matrix genes.

in the present study we investigated the potent inhibitory activity of mg2 ions on biofilm formation by bacillus species within milk and found that bacteria became more sensitive to processing procedures of dairy food e.g.

a the effect of mg2 ions on biofilm bundles formation by fluorescently tagged b. subtilis strains of the wild type wt the dabrb mutant and the dsinr mutant.

d the effect of mg2 ions on biofilm formation by different bacillus species known to contaminate milk.

by promoting clotting in milk and enhancing protein contents in cheeses.results and discussionour initial results indicated that at elevated concentrations mg2 ions could inhibit biofilm formation by bacillus subtilis during growth within milk.

a mg2 ions notably inhibited formation of biofilm bundles in a concentration-dependent manner.

