2002. the sudden mediterranean spread resulted in important detrimental effects including displacement of mediterranean species from areas where c. taxifolia formed dense populations francour et al.

oceanologica acta 14 415-426.meinesz a chancollon o cottalorda j-m 2010 observatoire sur l'expansion de caulerpa taxifolia et caulerpa race- mosa en m'editerran'ee campagne janvier 2008 - juin 2010 p. 50.meusnier i olsen jl stam wt destombe c valero m 2001 phylogenetic analyses of caulerpa taxifolia chlorophyta and of its associated bacterial microflora provide clues to the ori- gin of the mediterranean introduction.

such coherence between the distributions of host and bacterial lineages shows that endophytic communities thus have the potential to play an active role in the suc- cessful establishment and spread of c. taxifolia in invaded areas.the success of c. taxifolia as an invader has beenattributed to a number of traits such as its capacity for vegetative proliferation and fragmentation ceccherelli  cinelli 1999 smith  walters 1999 a strong resis- tance to desiccation schaffelke  deane 2005 and low palatability to local predators gollan  wright 2006 in line with the erh all likely to improve the competitive- ness of c. taxifolia.

2 queenslandnsw and the mediterranean table s6 supporting information with two distant clusters corresponding to north and south locations in queensland and the four samples from kelso reef appearing as intermediate among those.the unique core cluster of mediterranean mlgs appeared closer to one mlg from brisbane than to those from the northern part of the native range kelso reef and townsville.

the colour code is identical to the sampling and network figures with blue for queensland green and brown for nsw brown for port jackson light green for narrawallee and dark green for both lake conjola and burill lake and orange for the mediterranean.aquarium origin and clonal spread in the mediterranean vs. multiple introductions in new south walesthe comparison of the mediterranean and nsw inva- sion cases provides contrasting patterns that strongly suggest signatures of unique vs. multiple introductions respectively.

the perfect match in the identity of the mlg characterized from the aquarium and those in san diego and some mediterranean sus confirms the origin of the mediterranean and californian strains as a single aquarium strain spread by commercial trade.

the genetic difference affected a single locus and only one allele motif at a time while heterozygosity was maintained in three other loci favouring somatic mutations in the populations estab- lished in the mediterranean consistent with the lack of observation of female gametes and sexual reproduction in the mediterranean zuljevic  antolic 2000.in contrast much higher diversities were observed atboth the host and endophytic bacterial compartment levels in the invaded lagoons of nsw table 1 where the origin and mechanism of the more recent introduc- tion had thus far remained an open question due to the low power of its schaffelke et al.

2004. the tropical green alga c. taxifolia was first discovered in 1984 in the mediterranean sea meinesz  hesse 1991 where it spread to form dense meadows of large cold- adapted turbid-water thalli.

to achieve these goals we esti- mated the host and bacterial diversity of c. taxifolia from the native queensland and the introduced nsw and mediterranean regions fig.

in the north- ern part of its native area queensland qld caulerpa taxifolia was collected in april 2010 along the beach of kissing point a beach near townsville here referred to as townsville.for host population genetics a total of 236 sampling units sus composed of several fronds linked together by the same stolon and sampled at least 1-2 m apart from each other were collected from eight localities in australia and from three in the mediterranean fig.

the picture on the lower right shows a typical mediterranean specimen of caulerpa taxifolia and some intermingled stolons of the also-invasive sister species c. racemosa can be seen in the back- ground credits sophie fallour.additionally historical samples that were silica-dried and thus could only be used for host population genet- ics were added one sample from the oceanographic museum of monaco two from the san diego 'aborted' invasion anderson 2005 and one from a native area of the pacific tahiti together with 19 sampling units from the native area of brisbane qld four samples collected in 1999 in kelso reef qld and in croatia med all from previous studies jousson et al.

the hypothesis of a unique event of release of c. taxifolia from the monaco aquarium into the mediterranean was first published by meinesz  boudouresque 1996. this hypothesis was confirmed by phylogeographic studies through internal transcribed spacer its sequencing meinesz  boudouresque 1996 jousson et al.

laboratoire g'enome et populations interactions adaptations cnrs umr5000 universit'e mont- pellier ii montpellier france.bellansantini d arnaud pm bellan g verlaque m 1996 the influence of the introduced tropical alga caulerpa taxifolia on the biodiversity of the mediterranean marine biota.

nature methods 7 335-336.ceccherelli g cinelli f 1997 short-term effects of nutrient enrichment of the sediment and interactions between the seagrass cymodocea nodosa and the introduced green alga caulerpa taxifolia in a mediterranean bay.

journal of experi- mental marine biology and ecology 217 165-177.ceccherelli g cinelli f 1999 the role of vegetative fragmenta- tion in dispersal of the invasive alga caulerpa taxifolia in the mediterranean.

