food fermentation processes change food tastes as well as volatile odors which are both used to assess the nutritional quality of food by animals.

for food fermentation the total 108 cfu of bacteria were suspended in sterile 1x pbs and seeded onto fly food plates.

our hypotheses is that the following process 1 bacteria readily grow on overripe fruit 2 bacteria metabolize sugar and reduce the concentration of sucrose in rotting fruit 3 flies seek favorable sites for egg laying by activating sucrose receptors 4 flies navigate to low-sugar sites that are linked with a rich source of bacteria and lay eggs 5 fermenting bacteria promote the development of larvae.

since bacteria dominate fly food and metabolize sucrose during fermentation we further examined sucrose content and bacteria population in the media over time.

to this end we developed a system of fly food fermentation with bacteria fig.

sucrose was added to fermented fly food ef  sucrose and the oviposition preference of ef  sucrose food was compared to fermented food h2o.

acarbose was added to fermented fly food ef  acarbose and the oviposition preference of ef  acarbose food was compared to fermented food h2o.

indeed most dominant bacteria belonging to lab and acetic acid bacteria are well-known fermentative bacteria that convert many sugars to acids gases or alcohol.

interestingly flies given no choice but to lay eggs on the whole-forced cage laid 4.5-fold more eggs on fermented food compared to control food fig.

the predicted functions of rotting fruit-associated bacteria were also in lines with the ones of fermented fly food fig.

in apple and grape samples the fermenting bacteria were diverse and dominated by bacteria of two phyla proteobacteria and firmicutes fig.

given that lactate is the major metabolic end product of lab fermentation we tested and confirmed that lactate recapitulated the oviposition aversion of females to the supernatants of fermented fly food fig.

bacteria invade and colo- nize the soft tissues of overripe fruit and the fate of rich sugar is degraded during fermentation fig.

food odors help the animal to track down food over long distances while tastes are ultimately crucial to making decisions to feed on or to lay an1department of medical laboratory science fenyang college shanxi medical university shanxi 032200 china.2department of clinical medical fenyang college shanxi medical university shanxi 032200 china.

fly food was control food sucrose or deprived of sucrose -sucrose.

