Spitz J. Yuhan R. Koutsouris A. Blatt C. Alverdy J. Hecht G. Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli adherence to intestinal epithelial monolayers diminishes barrier function.

A study using epithelial cell lines has demonstrated that an EPEC infection leads to a decrease in TER as well as a disruption of tight junction barrier function through redistribution dephosphorylation and dissociation of tight junction proteins .

Coinciding with the increased paracellular permeability Salmonella caused a decrease in the expression of both ZO-1 and phosphorylated occludin redistribution of claudin-1 and ZO-2 proteins facilitation of bacterial translocation and loss of barrier function .It has also been described that S. Typhimurium invasion of intestinal epithelia is accompanied by a loss of epithelial integrity and consequently an impaired epithelial function in mice .

Moreover an infection of intestinal epithelial cells T84 or MDCK with S. Typhimurium can cause a progressive decrease in transepithelial electrical resistance alteration of intestinal TJ proteins a damage of intestinal barrier function and facilitates the translocation of both pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria across epithelial cell monolayers indicating a disruption of the tight junction barrier .

Xiong Y. Chen D. Yu C. Lv B. Peng J. Wang J. Lin Y. Citrus nobiletin ameliorates experimental colitis by reducing inflammation and restoring impaired intestinal barrier function.

Ph.D. Thesis University of Bristol Bristol UK 2010.Lamb-Rosteski J. Kalischuk L. Douglas Inglis G. Buret G. Epidermal growth factor inhibits Campylobacter jejuni-induced claudin-4 disruption loss of epithelial barrier function and Escherichia coli translocation.

Sonoda N. Furuse M. Sasaki H. Yonemura S. Katahira J. Horiguchi Y. Tsukita S. Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin fragment removes specific claudin from tight junction strands Evidence for direct involvement of claudin in tight junction barrier.

Tight junctions TJs are multi-protein complexes which are crucial for the integrity and function of the epithelial barrier as they not only link cells but also form channels allowing permeation between cells resulting in epithelial surfaces of different tightness.

Blikslager A.T. ClC-2 regulates mucosal barrier function associated with structural changes to the villus and epithelial tight junction.

Transforming growth factor-beta regulation of epithelial tight junction proteins enhances barrier function and blocks enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157H7-induced increased permeability.

