many studies have reported that metabolites generated by the gut microbiota are correlated with host physiology and metabolic diseases 2 3. specifically trimethylamine n-oxide tmao which is oxidized from trimethylamine tma through hepatic flavin-containing monooxygenases fmos particularlyfmo3 and fmo1 4 can promote atherosclerosis through enhanced accumulation of macrophage cholesterol and foam cell formation in animal models 5. tma is a volatile low-molecular-weight tertiary aliphatic amine that can be pchrodliunecebdyfrgoumt dmieictarorybicoatrani5ti-n7e.pmhoustpahtiaotnidsyilnchtohleinfemaond3 gene result in accumulation of tma in sweat and urine which is known as fish odor syndrome 8.therefore interventions reducing plasma tmao and cecal tma levels are considered to be health benefits 9. treatment with meldonium significantly decreases intestinal microbiota-dependent formation of tmatmao by shifting carnitine microbial degradation 10. dietary allicin a potent antimicrobial compound found in garlic also reduces thetransformation of tmao from l-carnitine through the effect of allicin on the gut microbiota 11. in addition 33- dimethyl-1-butanol dmb a structural analog of choline prevalent in wine olive oil and grapeseed oil inhibits tma production from gut microbes by inhibiting distinct microbial tma lyases.

the ion transitions mz 60 - 44 for tma mz 69 - 44 for d9-tma mz76.2 - 58.3 for tmao and mz 85.1 - 66.2 for d9-tmao were used to quantify tma d9-tma tmao and d9-tmao.serum samples spiked with 2.5 mm deuterium-labeled tma toronto research chemicals canada and deuterium-labeled tmao cambridge isotope laboratories usa as internal standards were treated with seven volumes of ice-cold methanol to precipitate proteins and then incubated at 4degc for 2 h. afterward samples were centrifuged at 12000 xg at 4degc for 15 min.

3.tma-metabolizing bacteria can affect cecal bacteria partially related to serum tmao levelsthe formation of tma and tmao from dietary choline is dependent on the gut microbiota 6. to explore whether the decrease of serum tmao levels was caused by the change in gut microbial community this study examinedfig.

dmb further reduces tmao levels in mice 12. recently resveratrol a natural phytoalexin with prebiotic benefits has been found to attenuate tmao- induced atherosclerosis by decreasing plasma tmao levels and increasing hepatic bile acid neosynthesis by changing the intestinal flora 13. all measures mentioned above mainly target the process choline or l-carnitine converted into tma by gut microbes with a new small molecule inhibitor.

the enterobacteriaceae served as an electron acceptor during anaerobic metabolism to support oxidative phosphorylation 17. however whether the enterobacteriaceae can further metabolize tma and influence the plasma tmao levels in vivo remains unknown.therefore the current study aimed to investigate theeffect of tma-metabolizing bacterium on cecal tma and plasma tmao levels in mice and provide an alternative approach to prevent diet-induced atherosclerosis with addition of probiotics.materials and methodsgrowth media and isolation of tma-metabolizing microorganisms basic salt medium supplemented with 20 mm tma bsmt as the sole carbon and energy source was used to isolate the bacteria.

different concentrations of tmao and tma standards and fixed amounts of internal standards were spiked into the control serum to prepare the calibration curves for quantification of serum tmao and tma.the cecal content was collected in sterile tubes homogenized with a mixture of acetonitrile methanol and water 404020 vv and then centrifuged at 12000 xg for 10 min at 4degc.

aerogenes zdy01 supernatant decreased by 36.3 compared with the others in contrast with the negative control this finding indicated that the capability of tma utilization of these bacteria may be dependent on the bacterial amount and strain specificity.tma-metabolizing bacteria can decrease tmao serum levels in vivoa comparison test between e. aerogenes zdy01 and pbs was performed to investigate the efficacy of e. aerogenes zdy01 in modulating the cecal tma and serum tmao levels in female balbc mice.

statistical significance was calculated by the newman-keuls multiple comparison test.zdy01 group gained significantly p 0.05 less serum level of tmao with a decrease of 43.3 of tmao compared with the pbs group fig.

2. effect of trimethylamine tma-metabolizing bacteria on serum trimethylamine n-oxide tmao levels and cecal tma levels in balbc mice.tma-metabolizing bacteria significantly inhibited tmao synthesis a and cecal tma b in balbc mice.

in the current study a series of in vitro and in vivo tests were performed to determine the relationship of tma-metabolizing bacteria with cecal tma and serum tmao levels and compare the efficiency of respective single bacteria in the reduction of serum tmao levels with that of the pbs group.

although other bacteria such as methylocella sylvestris and aminobacter aminovorans are lacking known pathways for tma utilization that can convert tma to tmao both formaldehyd and ammonium are further produced via theprienvteiormusedrieapteordtsma4-373 .34 indicated that two factors primarily influence the serum tmao levels one is the cecal tma formed by gut bacterial conversion of dietary ingredients such as choline and l-carnitine and the other is hepatic fmo3 activity which can oxidize 95 tma intotmao in the liver.

according to our results e. aerogeneszdy01 did not affect the activity of hepatic fmo3.the gut microbiota played an important role in tmao formation from dietary sources of methylamines such as choline and carnitine 5. several bacterial taxa are significantly associated with plasma tmao levels.

the order clostridiales 6 and genera prevotella clostridium fusibacter and ruminococcus are positively associated with plasma tmao levels whereas the genus bacteroides and proportions of s24-7 which is an abundant family from bacteroidetes are negatively associated with tmao levels 12. in our experiments 16s rrna sequencing of cecal bacteria showed that the richness number of otus species present in a sample and composition species diversity present in a sample were completely different between the two groups at the family level fig.

similar to previous reports the positive correlation between prevotellaceae and the tmao levels as well as the negative correlation between the abundance of s24-7 and tmao levels were confirmed.

chinatrimethylamine n-oxide tmao which is transformed from trimethylamine tma through hepatic flavin-containing monooxygenases can promote atherosclerosis.

