mice treated with the probiotic showed significant lower mrna levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and mucins in the ileum at day 7 while their expression was normalized at day 21. colonic expression of il-1b il6 and mucins remain diminished at day 21. ileum and colon explants from treated mice stimulated in vitro with lps showed a significant reduction in il-6 and an increase in il-10 secretion suggesting an in vivo protective effect of the probiotic treatment against a proinflammatory stimulus.

on the other hand ep1 decreased expression of il-1b il-6 and il-8 p  0.05 while ep3 did not affect expression of any tested genes data not shown.considering all the obtained results the strain e. durans ep1 was selected to evaluate probiotic properties and its in vivo immunomodulatory effect in mice.ep1 resists gastrointestinal conditions without modifying its adhesion capacity and also inhibits growth of gram-positive and -negative pathogensthe ability of e. durans ep1 to survive to the simulated gastro- intestinal conditions was assessed.

we presume that the increment of f. prausnitzii in mice treated with e. durans ep1 is involved in the anti-inflammatory effects observed in mice mucosa.conclusionenterococcus durans strain ep1 selected by the evaluation of pro-inflammatoryanti-inflammatory cytokines ratio in pbmc has no virulence factors and has no deleterious effect on mice.

 123 1 1 anne marie elie1 23 and 1edited byjulio villena cerela-conicet argentinareviewed by marina sandra palermo national council of scientific and technical research-conicetargentina susana salvacerela-conicet argentinacorrespondence maria c. urdaci present address center for medical research division of gastroenterology and hepatology medical university of grazgraz austria.specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunologya section of the journal frontiers in immunologyreceived 30 november 2016accepted 19 january 2017published 10 february 2017citation carasi p racedo sm jacquot c elie am serradell ma and urdaci mc 2017 enterococcus durans ep1a promising anti-inflammatory probiotic able to stimulate siga1 umr 5248 laboratoire de microbiologie et biochimie appliquee lbma bordeaux sciences agro universite de bordeaux gradignan france 2 catedra de microbiologia facultad de ciencias exactas departamento de ciencias biologicas universidad nacional de la plata unlp la plata argentina 3 cct-la plata conicet la plata argentinaenterococcus species principally enterococcus faecium are used as probiotics since a long time with preference in animal applications but safety considerations were updated and also new uses as probiotics can be envisaged.

eur j clin nutr 2000 54288-97. dohlivak p jahnova e odraska j ferencik m ebringer l mikes z. long- term 56-week oral administration of probiotic enterococcus faecium m-74 decreases the expression of sicam-1 and monocyte cd54 and increases that of lymphocyte cd49d in humans.

these bacteria were grown using m17 broth difco detroit mi usa in agitation at 37degc for 24 h.other strains used in this work were s. aureus atcc 6538 shigella flexneri atcc 9199 pseudomonas aeruginosa atcc 15442 a clinical isolate salmonella enterica serovar enteritidis cidca 101 hospital de pediatria prof. juan p. garrahan buenos aires argentina enterohaemorragic escherichia coli edl 933 bacillus cereus atcc 10876 and listeria monocytogenes atcc 7644. all strains were grown in brain heart infusion broth biokar in aerobic conditions at 37degc for 16 h.molecular identificationgenomic dna from enterococcus strains was extracted using the genomic dna purification kit fermentas france according to manufacturer's specifications.species identification were confirmed by 16s rdna gene sequencing and species-specific primers based on the superoxide dismutase soda gene  .in vitro safety evaluationdetection of virulence genesall isolates were tested for the presence of the three genetic ele- ments considered relevant for efsa  enterococcal surface protein esp is16 and hylefm.

finally one e.durans strain was selected to performed studies in healthy mice in order to analyze mucosal immunomodulatory capacities and its ability to modulate intestinal microbiota.materials and methodsbacterial strains and growth conditionsenterococcus strains isolated from different sources were used in this work as well as several collection strains all of them all listed in .

durans strains showed this profile data not shown.considering the described results three e. durans strains were selected to perform in vitro studies on pbmc and caco-2 cell line.e.

durans strains stimulates pbmc and modulates proinflammatory molecules on caco-2 cellsthe three strains of e. durans ep1 ep2 and ep3 chosen after in vitro safety evaluation were cocultured with human pbmc and caco-2 cells.

no significant changes were observed in any other quantified population not even in a. muciniphila which was perhaps expected to be affected due to the decrease in mucin expression in ep1-treated mice compared with controls.discussionenterococcus strains have been used as long time as effective probiotics but this bacterial group can also harbor pathogenic strains.

thus e. durans ep1 is not only a good candidate to increases f. prausnitzii in some cases of dysbiosis but can also be interesting in gut inflammatory disorders therapy.keywords enterococcus durans probiotic iga faecalibacterium prausnitzii anti-inflammatoryintroductionenterococci are an ancient genus of lactic acid bacteria lab that are highly adapted to living in complex environments and surviving adverse conditions.

durans reduces proinflammatory cytokines levels and mucins expression in colon and increases il-10 secretion in response to lps stimulationep1 consumption decreased il6 il1b and cxcl-1 expression after 7 days and this downregulation was persistent for the first two genes after 21 days of probiotic treatment .

j anim physiol anim nutr berl 2006 9025-31. doscharek l guth j reiter k weyrauch kd taras d schwerk p et al.

j anim sci 2006 84608-17. dobenyacoub j perez pf rochat f saudan ky reuteler g antille n et al.

nutrients 2011 3637-82. dozakostelska z kverka m klimesova k rossmann p mrazek j kopecny j et al.

