although digestive and extra digestive pathologies have been linked to compositional or functional alterations of the gut microbiota bap-induced perturbations of the human gut microbiota have not been previously studied.the bap dosages chosen for this work were informed by two previous studies carried out on the interaction between thebap and the gut microbiota allowing us to make comparisons and discussions    .

showed in vitro that the human gut microbiota can biotransform bap into estrogenic metabolites and they also identified 7-hydroxybenzoapyrene as a bap derivative.to highlight the underlying mechanisms and associated consequences of the interaction between bap and gut microbiota we performed 16s barcoding metatranscriptomic and volatolomic analysis to determine the impact of bap on two distinct human fecal microbiota.materials and methodsexperimental designbap  96 hplc sigma-aldrich saint-quentin fallavier france was incubated in batches with three replicates along with two different fm suspensions sampled from the continuous fermentor ecsim  .

although bacteroidetes and firmicutes are the two major phyla dominating the human and mouse gut microbiota     85 of the bacterial genera found in mouse gut microbiota are not present in humans  .

finally several environmental factors may shape the mice gut microbiota specifically cage effects including coprophagy dietary factors standardized chow diet composed mainly of plant materials and genetic background including inbreeding to preserve genetic homogeneity.similarly to our present work  showed that a short period of exposure 4 h with six host-targetingdrugs did not alter the microbial active community structure of the human gut microbiota.

regarding gastrointestinal or inflammatory disorders   reported that changes in fecal voc pattern may result from changes in the microbiota andor pathologies in the git.although studies have not focused on the impact of bap on the human gut microbiota bap metabolization has been demonstrated by this microbial consortium.

murine models are widely used in gut microbiota studies however discrepancies between human and mice gut bacterial composition have been reported.

it could be hypothesized that these same compounds would also trigger a gut metabolic response to chemical agents such as bap.in the present study bap exposure alters the gut microbiota volatolome in a dose-dependent manner.

although significant impacts were not observed on the gut microbiota structure the microbial activity was altered both at the metatranscriptome and at the volatolome levels that could contribute to disturb human gut homeostasis.

81562. doi abbreviations ahr aryl hydrocarbon receptor bap benzoapyrene ecsim environmental control system for intestinal microbiota fm fecal microbiota git gastrointestinal tract iarc international agency for research on cancer ibd inflammatory bowel disease pah polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon pcoa principal coordinate analysis tcdf 2378- tetrachloro dibenzofuran voc volatile organic compound.

these shared markers highlight similar functional responses for the two microbiota in terms of volatolome even if the two microbiota structures were clearly different as shown in .bap exposure alters the microbial metatranscriptomethe volatolome analysis showed that the microbial activity changed after 24 h of bap exposure.

furthermore although the bacterial composition of the two studied microbiota were clearly different their metabolic responses were similar with seven markers significantly altered by bap exposure in both microbiota.

although the metabolism of bap by host cells is well known its impacts on the human gut microbiota which plays a key role in health and disease remain unexplored.

these primary findings show that food pollutants such as bap alter human gut microbiota activity.

the observed shift in the volatolome demonstrates that bap induces a specific deviation in the microbial metabolism.keywords human gut microbiota polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons 16s amplicon sequencing volatolomics metatranscriptomicsintroductionpolycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons pahs are of great concern as environmental and foodborne pollutants.

because of its mutagenic and carcinogenic effects in animal models  pollutant benzoapyrene impacts the volatile metabolome and transcriptome of the human gut microbiota.

