3. effect of antibiotic exposures on a the alkaline phosphatase activity in zebrafish intestine and b acid phosphatase activity in zebrafish intestine.

eenvironmental concentrations of antibiotics impair zebrafish gut healthli zhou  samwel mchele limbu   meilin shen  wanying zhai  fang qiao anyuan he   zhen-yu du   meiling zhang  a laboratory of aquaculture nutrition and environmental health laneh school of life sciences east china normal university 500 dongchuan roadshanghai 200241 chinab department of aquatic sciences and fisheries technology university of dar es salaam dar es salaam tanzaniac key laboratory of exploration and utilization of aquatic genetic resources shanghai ocean university ministry of education shanghai 201306 chinad division of endocrinology metabolism  lipid research washington university school of medicine saint louis mo 63110 usaa r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 12 august 2017 received in revised form 12 december 2017accepted 20 december 2017available online 4 january 2018keywordsantibioticintestinal microbiota gut healthzebrafisha b s t r a c t antibiotics have been widely used in human and veterinary medicine to both treat and prevent disease.

in this study zebrafish were exposed to smx 260 ngl and otc 420 ngl for a six-week period.

our results indicated that environmental antibiotic concentrations can impair the gut health of zebrafish.

zebrafish were exposed to smx and otc at ngl levels for a six- week period.

this research was approved by the committee on the ethics of animal experiments of east china normal university.experimental animals and antibiotic exposuresix hundred zebrafish 0.1 g each were purchased from yuyi tropical fish farm shanghai china.

after two weeks of acclimati- zation 600 zebrafish were randomly divided into three triplicate groups control smx-bath and otc-bath groups.

the ocr of zebrafish was measured at the end of the experiment using a strathkelvin instrument 782 oxygen meter strathkelvin instruments limited north lanarkshire scot- land uk.

zebrafish were fasted for 24 h to exclude interference with postprandial metabolism.

ocr was calculated using the amount of o2 in the measured water sample according to the following equation ocr 14 do2 concen- tration mgl x water volume lfish mass g x time h.bacterial challengeat the end of the experiment aeromonas hydrophila was used to challenge the zebrafish in this study fig.

a single colony of a. hydrophila was grown inluria-bertani medium lb at 37 oc with shaking at 200 rpm for14 h. the overnight culture was then inoculated into 100 ml of fresh lb medium 1100. zebrafish were immersed in water con- taining the bacteria at a final concentration of 5 108 cfuml for six days.

the foreguts were sliced transversely into 5 mm sections and stained with hematoxylin-eosin h  e. stained slides were observed under microscopy nikon eclipse ts100.quantitative real-time pcrtotal rna was extracted from zebrafish gut using tri pure re- agent aidlab china.

a value of p  0.05 was used as the criterion for statistical significance.resultseffects of antibiotic exposure on growth metabolic rate and mortality in response to bacterial challenge of zebrafishat the end of the experiment there was no significant difference in final body weight between the control and antibiotic treated groups p  0.05 a. the whole fish oxygen consumption rate in the smx-bath and otc-bath groups was significantly higher than that observed in the control group p  0.05 b. when fish were challenged with a. hydrophila the accumulated mortality of fish in the antibiotic treated groups was higher than that observed in the control group c. the smx-bath treated group showed significantly higher mortality than the control group on days 1 2 and 3 p  0.05 while the otc-bath group had a higher mortality rate than the control group on day 4 and day 6 p  0.05. these results indicated that antibiotic residues in water increased the metabolic rate of zebrafish while decreasing their resistance toa.

this suggests that antibiotic exposurecould impair zebrafish innate immunity through reduction of gut goblet cells.effects of antibiotic exposure on non-specific immune reactions in the gutakp alkaline phosphatase and acp acid phosphatase activ- ities were detected in each group.

1. influence of smx and otc exposure on the body weight oxygen consumption rate and mortality rate of zebrafish.

