this was further augmented with a64epigenomics 2017 91future science groupepigenetics obesity  early-life cadmium or lead exposure special reportsearch for articles in the reference sections of relevant papers pertaining to epigenetics birth weight or adi- posity generating 18 additional articles for a total of 23 articles included in tables 2  3.studies of targeted methylation analysis of dna from human embryonic kidney cells exposed in culture to lead and tissues exposed in vivo to lead report epigen- etic perturbations at the regulatory regions of imprinted genes and altered expression of dna methyltransfer- ases 798283. targeted dna methylation analysis iden- tified differential methylation at the imprinted loci of peg3 peg1mest igf2h19 and dlk1meg3 thatis attributable to prenatal cadmium or lead exposure and associated with dysregulated growth outcomes in both mice and humans 12717374.in humans agnostic approaches using global methylation screening of alu and line-1 elements demonstrated hypomethylation of line-1 related to increased patellar lead levels 8485. sex-specific effects resulting from cadmium 81 and lead 7778 exposure as well as multigenerational effects from lead exposure 75 have also been reported.for future work to be comprehensive tools such as whole-genome bisulfite sequencing are needed to identify dna methylation patterns and genes that are dysregulated by exposure to cadmium or lead in cell types relevant to the genesis of obesity.

cadmium or lead exposure during the prenatal period has long been associated with lower birth weight and sga 9-1260. low birth weight which is often followed by rapid adiposity gain is a consistent risk factor for cardiovas- cular and metabolic impairment later in life 13. some but not all 61-63 human observational studies demon- strate a positive association between lead or cadmium exposure and obesity 6465 as well as cardiovascular disease or metabolic syndrome 6667. in support of these human observations animal studies of perinatal lead exposure show increased fat mass body weight or food intake in adulthood 68-71. early-life cadmium exposure has also been shown to increase fat mass in male mice.

alterations in dna methylation - the most studied epigenetic modifica- tion in humans - are proposed to be useful in provid- ing mechanistic insights and identifying stable expo- sure biomarkers 18-20. in this report we discuss the current research examining the epigenetic alterations associated with childhood obesity developmental exposure to cadmium or lead potential mechanisms at play and the potential role that cadmium- or lead- induced epigenetic dysregulation has on obesity and cardiometabolic outcomes.childhood obesity  epigeneticsthe evidence is mounting that dna methylation alterations at regulatory regions contribute to early onset obesity 21-24. dna methylation in the pro- moter region of genes has been studied extensively because increased methylation of regions leads to tran- scriptional silencing 2526. we conducted a literature search in pubmed using the keywords 'child obesity and epigenetics andor methylation'.

these studies utilized the 450k methylation array 2830-32 or 385k methylation array 35 and alter- native and older methods the 27k methylation array goldengate massarray 3447485056 and global methylation 4449. consistent relationships have been found between line-1 hypomethylation and obesity 4449. gene-specific methylation associated with obesity that were identified using these agnos- tic approaches include coro7 34 fzd7 prlhr exosc4 and eif6 35 as well as taok3 piwil4and fyn 30. furthermore differential dna methyl- ation of mirna-coding regions in obese compared with nonobese children were identified 28 as were differences in the distribution of differentially meth-58epigenomics 2017 91future science groupspecial reportpark skaar jirtle  hoyoylated regions between chromosomes where specific chromosomes were over-represented for demethyl- ation of promoters and cpg islands in obese versus nonobese children 35. a combination of methylation array and genome-wide genetic variant analysis showed an enrichment for obesity-related genes 43. the strong relationships between dna methylation and rna expression supports the functional significance of many differentially methylated regions identified 57.while the number of studies is growing replicating the multiple cpgs identified has remained a challenge.

the suggested complexity of interactions highlights the need for comprehensive ascertainment of exposure and their effects.neous motor activity altered dopamine levels and obesity in adult male mice 69. in humans early-life cadmium or lead exposure is also associated with higher risk of attention-deficithyperactivity dis- order 9697 a neurodevelopmental condition that is linked with obesity 98. in addition plagl1 found to be involved in neocortical development 99 had a positive association between its methylation and lead exposure 76 while its reduced expression is associated with obesity 27. inflammation and oxi- dative stress may play a mechanistic role.

it will also be important to identify the overlap in epigenetic profiles associated with cadmium or lead exposure and those associated with obesity.potential mechanisms by which cadmium  lead may alter obesity riskcadmium and lead have well-established roles as neurotoxins impacting neurodevelopment 86-88. the relationship between obesity and brain function is also established 8990. the role of neurodegenera- tion on obesity mediated by neurotoxic heavy metals was reviewed 91. one mechanism by which heavy metal exposure might lead to obesity may involve the effects of metal neurotoxicity on brain function and signaling related to appetite and satiety.

for exam- ple both cadmium and lead exposures have been shown to reduce the levels of bdnf 89293 an obe- sity related gene that regulates energy balance 94. meanwhile lower methylation of bdnf promoter in the salivary dna of obese adolescents has also been reported 36 while increased adiposity is related to decreased levels of circulating bdnf 95. likewise prenatal lead exposure results in decreased sponta-future science group69special reportpark skaar jirtle  hoyofigure 1. hypothesized relationships linking exposure epigenetics and obesity.

the keys to understanding how metal exposure contributes to obesity are improved assessment of exposure and comprehensive establishment of epigenetic profiles that may serve as markers for exposures.first draft submitted 5 august 2016 accepted for publication 19 october 2016published online 16 december 2016keywords cadmium  dna methylation  epigenetics  lead  obesitysarah s park1 david a skaar1 randy l jirtle123  cathrine hoyo11department of biological sciences center for human health  the environment north carolina state university raleigh nc 27695 usa 2department of oncology mcardle laboratory for cancer research university of wisconsin-madison madison wi 53705 usa3department of sport  exercise sciences institute of sport  physical activity research university of bedfordshire bedford bedfordshire ukauthor for correspondence approximately 17 of us children and 35 of adults are obese 1 and annual expendi- tures attributable to obesity and related care exceed us190 billion 2. obese children are more likely to be obese as adults and its comorbid conditions include type 2 diabetes hypertension and cardiovascular disease 3. established risk factors are genetic predis- position and energy imbalance defined as higher caloric intake compared with output.

in male mice prenatal lead and early-life cadmium exposure have been shown to alter gut microbiota and lead to increases in adult body weight 70 and fat mass  72. pathways epigenetically perturbed by cadmium and lead especially the pathways altered in obesity will be important for understanding its pathogenesis potentially via the microbiota-gut- brain axis 107-109 in childhood.

overall the identifica- tion of epigenetic alterations in response to environ- mental exposures such as cadmium and lead exposure will elucidate mechanisms that may be involved in the genesis of obesity and cardiometabolic disease allow for exposure detection and provide a new means for reducing obesity incidence and its severity.open accessthis work is licensed under the attribution-noncommercial- noderivatives 4.0 unported license.

if informative epigenetic marks are identified these marks could serve as a predictive tool for identifying children at risk for obesity or cardiovascular diseases in later life.a pubmed literature search using keywords 'child epigenetics or methylation and lead exposure or cad- mium' generated 35 results of which five were primary research articles.

we anticipate that these methylation maps will have the ability to70epigenomics 2017 91future science groupepigenetics obesity  early-life cadmium or lead exposure special reportsubdivide obesity phenotypes and provide gene targets for expression studies and therapeutic intervention.

lead exposure during early human development and dna methylation of imprintedfuture science group73special reportpark skaar jirtle  hoyogene regulatory elements in adulthood.

early life lead exposure causes gender-specific changes in the dna methylation profile of dna extracted from dried blood spots.

in vitro lead exposure changes dna methylation and expression of igf2 and peg1mest.

