a similar examination was performed for the expression levelin the intestines where the cyp3a expression level was the second highest following the liver .the mrna expression level of cyp3a11 in the livers of the mice that were given a diet containing 1.5 egcg for 2 days decreased significant- ly to approximately 40 of the expression level in the control group.

the extent of this decrease was nearly identical to that observed after the diet containing 3 gp was given for 7 days .based on these results the decrease in cyp3a expression level ob- served after administration of a diet containing 3 gp was shown to be attributable to egcg.relationship between the decrease in cyp3a expression level caused by egcg and the period of food intakeit was observed that the mrna expression level of cyp3a11 in the liver decreased significantly when a powdered diet containing 1.5 egcg was given to mice for 7 days.

in the group of mice that was given a diet containing 1.5 egcg for 10 days the protein expression level of cyp3a was significantly decreased to ap- proximately 60 of that in the control group .based on the above results when a powdered diet containing 1.5 egcg was given to mice a hepatospecific decrease in cyp3a expression level was observed from the second day of treatment.effect of egcg on the hepatic expression of cyp3athe next issue to be examined was whether the decrease in cyp3a in the liver observed after the oral administration of egcg was a direct effect of egcg or an indirect effect characteristic of oral administration.

note that be- cause cyp expression is maintained in heparg cells they are widely used for research concerning changes in cyp expression  .no difference was observed in the mrna expression level of cyp3a11 in the liver between the egcg group and the control group -a. similarly no difference was observed in the protein expres- sion level of cyp3a between these two groups -b. egcg was not detected in the mice that were given a diet containing 1.5 egcg for 2 days .

and were obtained from five mice per group.based on the above results it was determined that the probability that the expression level of hepatic cyp3a was decreased due to the di- rect effect of absorbed egcg was low.the expression level and nuclear translocation level of pxr in the liverthe expression level of cyp3a is regulated by pxr a nuclear receptor .

therefore in this study we examined whether the expression and nuclear translocation of pxr were suppressed in the livers of mice that showed a decrease in the expression of cyp3a.regarding the mrna expression level of hepatic pxr no difference was observed between the mice that were given a diet containing 1.5 egcg for 2 days and the mice in the control group.

epigallocatechin gallate induces a hepatospecific decrease in the cyp3a expression level by altering intestinal floranobutomo ikarashi 1 sosuke ogawa 1 ryuta hirobe  risako kon  yoshiki kusunoki  marin yamashita nanaho mizukami  miho kaneko  nobuyuki wakui  yoshiaki machida  kiyoshi sugiyama a department of clinical pharmacokinetics hoshi university japanb division of applied pharmaceutical education and research hoshi university japana r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 5 october 2016received in revised form 10 january 2017accepted 19 january 2017available online 21 january 2017keywordscytochrome p450 epigallocatechin gallate green tea polyphenol clostridium spp.pregnane x receptora b s t r a c t in previous studies we showed that a high-dose intake of green tea polyphenol gp induced a hepatospecific decrease in the expression and activity of the drug-metabolizing enzyme cytochrome p450 3a cyp3a.

the mrna gene expression levels were normalized to glyceral- dehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gapdh gene expression levels.table 1preparation of microsomal and nuclear fractions for immunoblottingmicrosomal fractions from the liver and small intestines were per- formed as described previously .

the dna expression levels were normalized to 16s rrna gene expression levels.extraction of bile acids in the feces and analysis using uplcesi-msextraction of bile acids and analysis using uplcesi-ms were per- formed as described previously .

body weight was presented as the mean - standard deviation n  5. food intake for each cage 5 micecage in each group was determined and the mean food intake by day was calculated.effect of oral intake of egcg on the mrna expression level of cyp3a11 in the liverin previous studies we showed that after a diet containing 3 gp was given to mice for 7 days the mrna expression level of cyp3a11 in the liver decreased to approximately 40 of that in the control group .

accordingly we examined whether this de- crease in the expression level of cyp3a11 would also be observed when egcg was given.the expression level of the mrna of cyp3a11 in the liver decreased in proportion to the egcg dose.

the extent of the decrease in cyp3a11 expression level in the liver after egcg was given for 10 days was similar to that after egcg was given for 2 days -a. however the mrna expression level of cyp3a11 in the intestines for all administration periods did not differ significantly from the level in the control group -b.we next investigated whether the hepatic decrease in cyp3a ex- pression level caused by egcg administration was also observed in the accompanying protein level.

in the group of mice that was given a diet containing 1.5 egcg for 2 days the protein expression level of cyp3a in the liver was significantly decreased to ap- proximately 80 of the expression level in the control group.

the cyp3a11 mrna expression level in the liver was measured with real-time rt-pcr and normalized to gapdh a. the cyp3a protein expression level in the liver was measured by western blotting and normalized to gapdh b. the results were obtained by setting the means of the control group to 100. the data are presented as the means - s.d.

in previous studies we found the existence of a correlation between the lca con- centration in the feces in the colon and the cyp3a expression level in the liver and we showed that the hepatic cyp3a expression level de- creased when the lca concentration in the colon decreased  .

