for instance mice lacking innate lymphoid cells or il-23il-22 signaling quickly succumb to c. rodentium infection due to impaired barrier function and translocation of the pathogen cella et al.navabi et al.page 92009 satoh-takayama et al.

2008. further while expression ifng often associates with more severe colitis ifng production during c. rodentium infection reduced the severity of the infection and improved clearance from the intestine simmons et al.

further we cannot exclude that hdac3-dependent regulation of inflammasomes deacetylation of non-histone proteins such as those involved in nf-kb signaling or enzyme-independent processes represent additional mechanisms for how hdac3 regulates il-18 transcription and activation in iecs.navabi et al.page 10recent studies have highlighted that commensal microbes can greatly impact how the mammalian host immune system responds to infection abt et al.

these data suggest that the microbiota composition of hdac3diec mice is not sufficient to transfer altered host defense against c. rodentium infection.hdac3-dependent regulation of c. rodentium and intestinal ifng occurs early during infection in a microbiota-dependent mannerto identify the initial time point of altered pathogen dynamics in hdac3diec mice the level of infection was closely monitored following original exposure.

to test whether impaired early ifng induction in the colon may contribute to increased susceptibility of hdac3diec mice to c. rodentium infection a th1-inducing immunostimulatory oligonucleotide iss-odn ciorba et al.

2013. in addition mice lacking il-17 exhibit increased bacterial burden prolonged infection and more severe c. rodentium induced pathology ishigame et al.

2015. in contrast il-18il-18r deficient mice as well as casp1 and nlrp6 deficient mice that cannot activate il-18 exhibit a more severe dss-induced colitis and decreased survival during c. rodentium infection elinav et al.

the colon explant was incubated with 1x108 gfp-c. rodentium for 24 h. longitudinal sections from the same mouse were treated with pbs or 100ngml ril-18.navabi et al.page 11iec harvest real-time pcr elisaiecs were isolated from murine samples as described alenghat et al.

rodentium at the site of infection at this time mice were infected with gfp-expressing c. rodentium revealing that hdac3diec mice exhibited markedly elevated c. rodentium within the colon adjacent to iecs figure 1c.constitutive deletion of hdac3 has the potential to alter the development of cells in the intestine.

rodentium infectionmice were infected orally with 1x109 gfp-c. rodentium bergstrom et al.

further iecs from infected hdac3diec mice exhibited decreased expression of multiple genes that can induce il-18 transcription and post-translational processing supplemental figure 5b suggesting that networks of pathways mediate how hdac3 regulates il-18 expression and activation in iecs.to test whether hdac3-dependent regulation of il-18 in iecs triggered resident iels to produce ifng independently of circulating factors we employed the ex vivo colon infection model figure 6. consistent with alterations observed in vivo infection of explanted colons lacking iec-intrinsic hdac3 failed to induce significant epithelial il-18 expression figurenavabi et al.page 87d.

2013 however whether hdac-mediated regulation directs protective immune response against infection is unknown.citrobacter rodentium is a murine bacterial pathogen with similar pathogenesis to enteropathogenic e. coli infection in humans.

collectively these data indicate that mice lacking epithelial hdac3 expression are more susceptible to the pathogen and that iec-intrinsic hdac3 actively regulates the infection in adult mice.consistent with significantly increased pathogen exposure mice with deletion of hdac3 in iecs exhibited more severe colonic pathology associated with c. rodentium infection figures 1g and 1h.

cd8 t cells comprised a large proportion of ifng-producers during infection figure 2f and mice lacking cd8 t cells exhibited decreased ifng within the colon figure 2g and increased pathogen load at day 12 post infection figure 2h suggesting a functional role for cd8 cells in ifng-mediated defense against c. rodentium.

moreover ifng- producing gd iels which were not a major source of ifng following c. rodentium infection were also reduced within the colon of hdac3diec mice supplemental figures 4b and 4c whereas il-17 and il-22 iel responses were less affected at day 6 post infection supplemental figures 4d and 4e.

