the changes in bacterial communities in- duced by ericoid roots and mycorrhizal mycelia are mostly different compared with those induced by roots and mycorrhi- zal mycelia of pine.numbers of bacterial 16s rrna gene copies in mycosphere soils and rootsthe abundance of bacterial 16s rrna copies in ericoid mycosphere soils was consistently higher than those in uncolonized control soil.

it is more likely that heather contained more antibacterial or pcr inhibitory substances than lingonberry and the differences in bacterial 16sacaulobacterbradyrhizobiumchitinophagaceaeheather bilberry lingonberry pineacidobacteriarrna gene copy numbers found in roots were in the same range as commonly observed in roots .mycosphere soils contained significantly higher numbers of bacterial 16s rrna gene copies than mycorrhizal roots per gram dry weight.

pcoa was used to analyze variance structure of the bacterial communities permutational manova tested whether the ef- fect of plants or sample type soil and roots on the bacterial community composition was significant and db-da was performed to test how well bacterial community compositions differed between plants.

that bacterial populations in the roots were tightly structured by the plant.although mycorrhizal fungal colonization of soil re- duced the bacterial diversity in individual soil samples the presence of different plants and mycorrhizal fungi as a whole increased the bacterial diversity.

microb ecol 2017 73939-953 doi 10.1007s00248-016-0922-6ericoid roots and mycospheres govern plant-specific bacterial communities in boreal forest humussari timonen1 hanna sinkko1  hui sun12  outi-maaria sietio1 johanna m rinta-kanto1  heikki kiheri1  jussi heinonsalo1received 14 september 2016  accepted 14 december 2016  published online 26 december 2016 springer sciencebusiness media new york 2016abstract in this study the bacterial populations of roots and mycospheres of the boreal pine forest ericoid plants heather calluna vulgaris bilberry vaccinium myrtillus and ling- onberry vaccinium vitis-idaea were studied by qpcr and next-generation sequencing ngs.

b. the unique bacterial otus in heather and bilberry roots belonged most often to gammaproteobacteria in lingonberry roots to alphaproteobacteria and pine roots to sphingobacteriia 21 29 38 and 25 of all different otus with class status data not shown.

nevertheless no difference in frequency of sphingobacteriia sequences was detected from root and soil habitats in alpine soil .despite the much larger number of otus as well as higher bacterial diversity in soils soil bacterial popula- tions were more similar to each other than were the root bacterial communities to each other.

it is likely that in the latter study ericoid plant influence was present but their species composition or influ-ence on the bacterial composition was not defined.although ericoid plants are very common in boreal ecosys- tems and their roots effectively colonize the organic soil hori- zons there is very little information about the bacterial com- position of ericoid mycorrhizospheres.

currently it is not known what the effects of ericoid mycorrhizal colonization on the boreal forest soil are or what type of bacterial populations resides in the roots or mycospheres of ericoid mycorrhizal plants in these habitats.the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of the most common dry boreal forest plants heather bilberry and lingonberry and their associated mycorrhizal fungi on the bacterial abundance and community structure of soil.

in a study of cu- cumber and wheat the bacterial populations of roots had relatively few specific functions kegg orthologs al- though they were taxonomically clearly different .composition of bacterial communities in different soilsdominating groups based on relative abundance of se- quences of bacteria in the humus soils were acidobacteria proteobacteria and actinobacteria.

in contrast bacterial communities of ericoid roots were more similar to each other than to those of pine roots.

however a length heterogeneity pcr study showed that the bacterial popu- lation of lingonberry roots was quite different from those of pine roots .

bacterial community compositions of all ericoid roots were more similar to each other than those of pine roots.

heather and bilberry roots had more similar bacterial community composition than the other roots.

of the 429 root specific bacterial otus only 7 were shared by all roots and pine roots contained the highest numbers of unique otus fig.

