Comprehensive gut-microbiome studies are required to test our hypothesis.Keywords 5-Ht sids gut-brain axis gut flora autoresuscitationintrodUCtionSudden infant death syndrome SIDS is defined as a sudden unexplained death in the first year of life in a previously healthy infant where the cause of death remains unidentified despite thorough investigations including a complete autopsy death scene investigation and review of clinical history .

Prone sleeping position a significant SIDS risk factor cannot be easily associated with the other epidemiological risk factors related to SIDS .Current Hypotheses for sidsSudden infant death syndrome is a condition without a widely accepted singular pathological mechanism.Triple-risk model this model proposes that SIDS occurs when external stressors simultaneously act upon on a susceptible infant with a vulnerable homeostatic system during a critical developmental period .Failed autoresuscitation animal studies have shown that car- diorespiratory sleep and arousal mechanisms are abnormal following exposure to risk factors associated with SIDS or in infants who later succumb to SIDS  .

Stressors acting on an at-risk infant during the critical window period could affect the favorable nature of infant gut flora and consequently affect the brainstem neurotransmitters through bidirectional communica- tion andor gut barrier function locally.Based on the evidence from the experimental and clinical studies discussed above we propose that an optimal diversity complexity and colony counts gut flora interacts with ECC and modulates possibly by its serotonin and other paracrine effects through the afferent vagal endings to the brain stem medullary serotonergic cardiorespiratory centers in infants at risk for SIDS.

SIDS and other sleep-related infant deaths expansion of recommendations for a safe infant sleeping environment.

4136. doi 1 Kaiser Permanente South Bay Harbor City CA USA 2 Providence Little Company of Mary Medical Center Torrance CA USASudden infant death syndrome SIDS continues to be a major public health issue.

The triple-risk model of Filiano and Kinney emphasizes the interaction between a susceptible infant during a critical developmental period and stressors in the pathogenesis of SIDS.

We present a new hypothesis that the infant's gut microbiome andor its metabolites by its direct effects on the gut enterochromaffin cells stimulates the afferent gut vagal endings by releasing serotonin paracrine effect optimizing autoresuscitation by modulating brainstem 5-HT levels through the microbiome-gut-brain axis thus playing a significant role in SIDS during the critical period of gut flora development and vulnerability to SIDS.

The shared similarities between various risk factors for SIDS and their relationship with the infant gut microbiome support our hypothesis.

SIDS is a major cause of postneonatal infant mortality in the western world.

The incidence of SIDS has remained fairly constant in the last decade while the rate of other causes of ill-defined unspecified and sudden unexpected infant deaths has increased  .

