mechanisms through which microbiota mediate these func- tions include the cometabolism of steroid hormones and low-molecular weight dietary compounds with hormone-like activities that regulate the immune system 4. this micro- bialhormonal interplay is bidirectional stress-induced neuroendocrine hormones have been observed to increase bacterial adhesion to host tissues and alter the growth and virulence of bacteria through the regulation bacterial gene expression 4.intestinal microbiota and intestinal mucous barrier both respond to simulated microgravity and contribute to the susceptibility to inflammation in the gut microenvironment 5. simulated microgravity has been reported to result in a transient increase in circulating lps and a stimulation of the innate immune system 6. simulated microgravity disrupts intestinal microflora and the innate immune system leading to a proinflammatory shift in the gut microenvironment and an increase in colitis susceptibility 7. estrogen the most prominent affected hormone under simulated microgravity regulates the permeability of the colonic mucosa barrier 38. estrogen gene knock-out mice have been shown to present with many prepathogenic phenotypes including abnormalcolonic histology and disrupted cellular tight junctions 9. these architectural abnormalities facilitate the invasion of intestinal bacteria resulting in localized infection and enhanced levels of colonic inflammation 10. however there remains little knowledge regarding the effects of estrogen on the composition of the gut microbiota and their downstream influences on intestine barrier dysfunction.studies have found that the alteration of even a single host gene can significantly change host-driven selective pressures that lead to changes in the structure and function of the commensal gastrointestinal microbiota 91112. we thus sought to characterize the possible impact of simulated hypogravity on gut commensal microbiota and to evaluate the protective effect of estrogen on the homeostasis of intestinal microbiota in rats under simulated hypogravity.

a the figure shows dgge gels of the v3 hypervari- able 16s rdna region demonstrating the microbiota's composition in the feces of rats from control ctrl simulated microgravity hu simulated microgravity combined with estrogen for 4 weeks hue4 and simulated microgravity combined with estrogen for 8 weeks hue8.

sem standard error mean hu hindlimb unweighting.figure 3. distribution of bacterial phylotypes a and subgroups b in the fecal samples of rats from the following groups control ctrl simulated microgravity hu simulated microgravity combined with estrogen for 4 weeks hue4 and simulated microgravity combined with estrogen for 8 weeks hue8.

unweighting.discussionfigure 4. quantitative-polymerase chain reaction analysis measured the abundance of specific bacterial groups in the control ctrl simulated microgravity hu simulated microgravity combined with estrogen for 4 weeks hue4 and simulated microgravity combined with estrogen for 8 weeks hue8 groups.

the rats were caged separately in a room maintained at 21c and controlled lightdark cycles 1212 h. the rats were randomly assigned to four groups of 10 rats each as follows a control group without any treatment a simulated microgravity group tail suspension for 8 weeks group and simulated microgravity combined with estrogen for 4 weeks and 8 weeks groups estrogen was administered via the intramuscular injection of estradiol benzoate at a dose of 80 ugkg daily for first seven days then rat were euthanized at the timepoints of 4 weeks and 8 weeks respectively.

dgge bands from the pcr products of the v3 regions of 16s rrna genes from rat fecal samples of control simulated microgravity or simulated microgravity combined with estrogen administration groups are shown in fig.

to evaluate whether simulated microgravity and the administration of estrogen under simulated micro- gravity affect bacterial translocation we detected serum lps and lbp levels as surrogate markers.

the great changes of e. coli as observed under simulated microgravity may have huge influence on the health.changes in the diversity and number of gut microflora have been linked to immunological dysregulation which isassociated with many human noninfectious diseases such as autoimmunity allergies and cancer 26. indeed simulated microgravity has recently been shown to increases susceptibility to colitis in mice 5. sex hormones influence the development of autoimmune diseases 29. as we known females suffer a higher incidence of many major autoimmune diseases and undergo changes in disease severity during pregnancy 29. studies have recently linked this sexual dimorphism with the gut microbiota 30. for example the most prominent case is microbiota in the development of autoimmune disease of type 1 diabetes t1d in non-obesity diabetes nod mice 30. germ-free nod males and females have been observed to develop t1d with a similar incidence.

estrogen inhibits the overgrowth of escherichia coliin the rat intestine under simulated microgravityyongtao yang1 changmin qu1 shuwen liang1 gang wang2 haolun han2 na chen2 xiaoying wang1 zhiwen luo1 changqing zhong1 yan chen1 lianyong li1 and wei wu2departments of 1gastroenterology and 2otorhinolaryngology the 306th hospital of pla beijing 100101 p.r.

estrogen the most frequently affected hormone when under simulated microgravity regulates the permeability of the colonic mucosa barrier.

the aim of the present study was to evaluate the changes in intestinal microbiota under simulated microgravity and to investigate the protective effect of estrogen against those changes.

chinae-mailcontributed equallykey words microbiota microgravity estrogen escherichia coliof lbs and lbp under simulated microgravity.

dgge denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis hu hindlimb unweighting.resultspcr- dgge analysis of changes in fecal bacterial populations associated with simulated microgravity and estrogen exposure.

most bands appeared to be unaffected by simulated microgravity exposure or estrogen administration.

escherichia coli which belongs to the gram-negative enterobacteriaceae family showed the most remarkable band change during exposure to simulated microgravity and estrogen.

