d p  0.001 and p  0.007. notably in erb knockout mice the same dose of pfos did not change hepatic total cholesterol or bile acid levels.expression of genes involved in cholesterol and bile acid metabolism in liver and intestinethe liver and intestine are the key organs that regulate bile acid and cholesterol metabolism.

notably at the same doses of pfos the alterations in cholesterol and bile acid metabolism and gut microbiota were mitigated in erb knockout mice indicating that erb in part mediates pfos-induced hepatotoxicity and changes in gut microbiome.pfos can cause hepatotoxicity through such processes as apoptosis kim et al.

in this study we investigated the function of estrogen receptor b erb in pfos-induced bile acid and cholesterol metabolism disorders and gut microbiome using erb knockout mice that were exposed to pfos by gavage.

in our study erb deficiency reversed the changes in the gut microbiome.conclusiondeletion of erb alleviates the disturbances in bile acid and cholesterol metabolism that are caused by pfos.

in addition to the pre- vious findings our results provide evidence of the toxic effect of pfos on hepatic metabolism of cholesterol and bile acids and its influence on gut microbiota suggesting that changes in hepatic cholesterol and bile acid metabo- lism and the gut microbiota are useful markers for mon- itoring the effect after being exposed to pfos.

mice homozygous for the non-functional erb allele erb-- producing no erb protein and their wild-type littermates erb were used in the study.

in addition erb might be involved in me- diating the perturbance of bile acids and cholesterol metabo- lism in pfos-exposed mice because a lack of erb rescued these impairments.we also observed alterations in the abundance and composition of the gut microbiome after pfos exposure in mice.

these data suggested that lower hepatic cholesterol level was not due to defects in cholesterol synthesis or absorption in hepatocytes after pfos exposure.a wild-type mice with 0.5 tween 20 b erb knockout-type mice with 0.5 tween 20 c wild-type mice with 5 mgkg pfos d erb knockout-type mice with 5 mgkg pfosfig.

after centrifugation at 2500 rpm for 10 min at 4 degc the supernatant was collected.hepatic total cholesterol and bile acid content were measured with an enzymatic kit cholesterol e003 and bile acid a111- 2 njjcbio nanjing china per the manufacturer's instruc- tions.

.effects of pfos on cholesterol and bile acid metabolismhepatic cholesterol and bile acid levels in male wt mice exposed to pfos were significantly lower than in the control group fig.

.in this study we measured cholesterol levels in liver where most cholesterol is metabolized and found disturbances in hepatic bile acid and cholesterol metabolism in mice.

our results showed that a daily dose of 5 mg pfoskg significantly induced hydropic degeneration and vacuolation in hepatic cells reduced bile acid and cholesterol levels in liver tissue and influenced the abundance and com- position of gut microbiota.

then we measured the effects of 28 days of gavage with 5 mg pfoskgday on hepatic bile acid and cholesterol metabolism and the gut microbiota in male mice.

the hepatic bile acid synthesis is sophisticatedly regulated by the process- es as hepatic synthesis secretion ileal reabsorption and modification of bile acid composition by gut microbiome as well as feedback regulation through nuclear receptors such as farnesoid x receptor fxr-shp pathway and hormonal regulation by ileal fgf15 etc.

the gut microbiome plays key roles in hydrolyz- ing conjugated bile acids and 7alpha-dehydroxlating pri- mary bile acid into secondary bile acid modifying the composition and pool of bile acids degirolamo et al.

