obese and overweight women had significantly lower con- centrations of estradiol than non-obese premenopausal women how- ever this trend was reversed after menopause where obese and over- weight women have higher estradiol levels than non-obese women due aromatization of estrogens in adipose tissue.the molecular mechanism of action of estrogens in each tissue isdetermined a by the er composition of the tissue b by the com- position of coregulators and partnering transcription factors c and notably as we and others have shown also by the activation of genomic vs. non-genomic pathways by estrogens.

estrogens and female liver healthkaren l. chen zeynep madak-erdogana division of nutritional sciences university of illinois urbana-champaign urbana il 61801 usab department of food science and human nutrition university of illinois urbana-champaign urbana il 61801 usaa r t i c l e i n f o keywords microbiome estrogens botanical estrogensdietary supplements estrogen receptor metabolism menopausenon-alcoholic fatty liver diseasea b s t r a c t due to declining estrogen levels during menopause nafld prevalence is higher in postmenopausal women compared to in premenopausal women or in men.

for example some bacterial species with b-glucosidase activity can deconjugate estrogens producing estrogens with higher biological activity .

recent advances in - omics technologies such as microbiome transcriptome and metabolome analysis provided evidence that estrogens and intestinal microbiota im can collectively influence obesity inflammatory disease diabetes and cancers.

by understanding underlying mechanisms of estrogens and mi- crobiota crosstalk we might design dietary and pharmacological interventions to alleviate the metabolic syn- drome and nafld.metabolic health of postmenopausal women and hormone replacement therapythe prevalence of obesity among women is increasing yet there is no such significant trend for men.

therefore it is essential to find safer alternatives to hrt such as novel and synthetic estrogens that can maintain the health of non-reproductive tissues without stimulating reproductive tissues.selective estrogen receptor modulators serms are compounds that can bind to estrogen receptors and can exert agonistic or antag- onistic activity.

population studies have demonstrated that while premenopausal women have less nafld compared to men postmenopausal women have higher in- cidences of nafld than men  which suggests a protective role for estrogens.

the decrease in estrogens due to the onset of menopause makes postmenopausal women more susceptible to weight gain fat redistribution to abdominal areas dyslipidemia and insulin resistance all of which are major hallmarks of metabolic syndrome and are asso- ciated with nafld .

in addition both the aromatase knock-out mice  which are devoid of endogenous estrogens and era knock-out mice had hepatic steatosis.

therefore the components of westernized diet disrupts lipid homeostasis and oxidative balance in the liver and enables the onset and the progression of nafld.mechanisms of metabolic regulation by estrogensin humans there are three major estrogens endogenous to the human body.

estrogens are derived from cholesterol by reactions catalyzed by the p450 aromatase .

several tissues are able to generate estrogens in humans including the reproductive organs of both males and females the liver osteoblasts muscle cells skin and adipose tissue .

es- trogen synthesis continues in adipose tissue and adipose tissue-derived estrogen accounts for most of the circulating estrogens in post- menopausal women .

estrogens regulate adipocyte metabolism and induce remodeling of particular adipose depots which are different between premenopausal women and men compared to post-menopausal women .

estrogens can decrease lipogenesis by in- hibiting lipoprotein lipase lpl .

