what is the nature of the swarming behavior induced by eros is it a motility behavior change increased adhesion between cells or both how are the mating partners estab- lished from an initially clonal population and if this occurs via some type of epige- netic switch how is it triggered so rapidly or are the two sexes or mating types already cryptically present in popu- lations of non-mating cells and unmasked by treatment with eros are choanofla- gellates strictly dependent on bacteria for efficient sexual reproduction or can they produce their own type of sex inducer perhaps in response to different conditions do candidate chondroitin lyase genes encoded by s. rosetta feature in an endogenous sex-inducing pathway does mating in response to the chondroi- tinase-excreting bacteria benefit the choanoflagellate and if so how might the diploid phase of s. rosetta be resistant to the degradative effects of chondroiti- nases making sex a bacterial resistance mechanism reciprocally do the bacte- ria benefit from inducing s. rosetta sexu- ality perhaps v. fischeri survival is favored by reduced capture rates whens.

.eukaryotic sexual reproductionevoked ''with a little help from my friends''james umenursula goodenoughand joseph heitman1donald danforth plant science center 975 north warson road st. louis mo 63132 usa2department of biology washington university st. louis mo 63130 usa3department of molecular genetics and microbiology duke university medical center durham nc 27710 usacorrespondence bacteria and eukaryotes interact in many ways--from the microbiome that educates the mamma- lian immune system and enhances nutrition to relationships that are commensal symbiotic or parasitic.

rosetta from this the authors infer that the bacteria might be stimulating mating .

fischeri bioluminescence contributed to the discovery of quorum sensing  the process by which bacteria communicate with each other via secreted signals.

for instance bacteria and fungi are co- resident with many tissues of animals including the skin the oropharynx and the gastrointestinal tract and can form mixed transkingdom species biofilms .

peptido- glycan shed by bacteria can be sensed by the human fungal pathogen candida albicans promoting its transition fromcellular yeast to invasive hyphae  .

multiseries is stimulated by bacteri- ally produced factors present in its envi- ronment reciprocally these bacteria feed off of organo-sulfur compounds secreted by the diatom .

whether bacteria might stimulate sexual cycles of fungi algae or other eukaryotic microbes is not yet known.

