additionally the bacterial cell densities of lab aab genus lactobacillus and genus pediococcus in the commercial craft beer samples determined by ngs-qpcr were well consistent with those determined by group-specific qpcr and genus-specific qpcr with some exceptions a b.there was a difference between the result obtained from ngs- qpcr and that obtained by genus-specific qpcr in the cell density of genus pediococcus b sample nos.

the total bacterial cell densities determined by the tdc species-specific qpcr and ngs- qpcr methods were almost the same supplementary table s4.comparison of each bacterial cell density valueplate cul- ture species-specific qpcr and ngs-qpcr are capable of quantifying each bacterium separately.

in both bacterial groups the cell densities determined by ngs-qpcr were well consistent with those determined by group-specific qpcr and the bacterial cell densities determined by each method showed no significant differences paired t-test p  0.05.the cell densities of genus lactobacillus and genus pediococcus determined by ngs-qpcr were well consistent with those deter- mined by genus-specific qpcr except for several samples a and b. there was a difference in several samples nos.

the bacterial cell density of a specific bacterium determined by a plate count or a target-specific qpcr and the total bacterial cell density determined by the total direct count obtained by epifluor- escent microscopy tdc or flow cytometry.in this study we prepared model bacterial community samples and analyzed the samples by several methods the new ngs-qpcr method a species-specific qpcr flow cytometry tdc and plate counting.

the total bacterial cell density is the sum of each bacterial cell density.for analysis of craft beer samples the cell densities of lab and aab are defined as the sum of the bacterial cell density of lactobacillus pediococcus leuconostoc and weissella lab and that of acetobacter gluconacetobacter and gluconobacter aab respectively.statistical analysis statistical analyses in this study were performed using r package  r core team 2011.culture-dependent detection in the commercial craft beer all craft beer samples were inoculated onto plate medium on the unsealing day.

the pcr efficiency of each qpcr condition ranged from 86 to 98. the pcr efficiency of each qpcr condition was calculated based on the slope of standard curve.quantitative pcr for the quantification of total ribosomal rna copies the quantification of total ribosomal rna gene copies by qpcr was per- formed by the hydrolysis probe method as follows.

there was a difference among common logarithm of ratio of quantification value of each bacterium using ngs-qpcr to that using species-specific qpcr log10 ngs-qpcrspecies- specific qpcr the maximum value was 0.722 g. oxydans average and the minimum value was 1.688 a. acidocaldarius average j. these results indicate that the quantification value of a. acidocaldarius using ngs-qpcr was underestimated compared with that using species-specific qpcr and g. oxydans was the opposite result.

as the result of evaluating the relation between normaucgc of template dna and log10 ngs-qpcrspecies-specific qpcr there was a negative cor- relation among them  r 0.4778 p  0.05.when we compared the abundance ratio of each bacterium ob- tained by the ngs analysis and that obtained by the species-specific qpcr analysis the abundance ratios of a. acidocaldarius g. oxydans and pseudomonas fluorescens obtained by the ngs method were markedly different from those obtained using the species-specific qpcr .

our findings also demonstrated that there is a strong positive correlation between the cell densities of a specific bacterial group in craft beer samples determined by group-specific qpcr and ngs- qpcr and there were no significant differences among quantification methods we tested two bacterial groups lactic acid bacteria and acetic acid bacteria.

th81 82 420 0800 fax th81 82 420 0802.e-mail address m. takahashi.cell density estimated by a culture-dependent method was influ- enced by a bias based on the culture e. fora culture-independent analysis flow cytometry combined with in situ hybridization or target-specific qpcr have been used for quantifying a target bacte- rium but a specific probe for the in situ hybridization or the target- specific primer set should be designed for each target bacterium e. thus the comprehensive analysis of a bacterial community by the quantification methods described above is not realistic.we recently developed a new method that is a combination of an ngs analysis and quantitative pcr qpcr it enables researchers to calculate the cell density of each bacterium .

that is qpcr is a simple and robust tool it is capable of high-specificity and high-sensitivity detection and species-specific qpcr is not influenced by pcr bias when the standard curve is calibrated using the target bacterium with a known cell density.

the detection ratio of each bacterium was calculated from the total read counts of each sample and the cluster size of each bacterium.bacterial cell density calculation method from ngs and qpcr the cell ml-1 of bacteria was calculated as described previously .

therefore the bacterial community should be evaluated or compared based not on the abundance ratio of each bacterium but rather based on each bac- terial cell density value.species-specific qpcr is an excellent method to determine the cell density of bacteria.

the bacterial cell densities obtained using the plate culture method were approximately 107 cfu ml-1 and the bacterial cell densities obtained using the tdc species-specific qpcr and ngs-qpcr methods were approximately 108 cells ml-1.

for example in an investigation of the variation of bacterial cell density during fermentation or for the determination of the correlation between bacterial cell density and the content of a specific component quantifying the population of each bacterium that is part of a bacterial community is beneficial for the evaluation of that community.various quantification methods have been developed and used for quantifying bacterial cell densities however each quantification method has its merits and demerits.

