the observed different trend could be related to a lower ph value measured in c1 fermentation which decreased from 5.1 at the beginning of the fermentation to 3.7 after two refreshment steps it could contribute to control the growth of non-acidophilic bacteria.molecular characterization of microbial isolateswith the aim to characterize the natural microbial popu- lation involved in maize bran fermentation 135 colonies of presumptive lab were selected from different mrs plates obtained by the analysis of the two different maize bran samples subjected to sourdough like fermentation process as previously reported.

fermentation was char- acterized by a rapid increase in lab number after the first day of bran fermentation reaching levels of 108-109cfug for both bran samples these levels remained constant during all refreshment steps.

a and yeasts b isolated from maize bran fer- mentationgrains murillo-williams and munkvold  pitt and hocking .dynamics of microbial population during fermentation species composition and lab and yeasts succession dur- ing the fermentation of the two samples of maize bran are reported in fig.

in c1 fermentation this was the only yeast found at the end of the fermentation in c2 sample a significant presence of k. marxianus 56 and 19 at refreshment steps 7 and 12 respectively was also observed.characterization of native maize bran and fermented bran table reports the proximate composition detected in native and fermented samples.

.during the maize bran fermentation we found several species of yeasts some of who predominate in the first step of fermentation as w. anomalus other at the end of the refreshments as k. unispora.

our data show that the fermentation process promote a significant reduction of phytic acid likely related to an activation of endogenous phytases and to the presence of specific microbial biotypes able to pro- duce significant extracellular phytase activities.in conclusion the sourdough-like fermentation of maize bran seems a suitable bio-approach in promot- ing nutritional and functional properties of this cereal by-product.

the spontaneous sourdough-like fermentation process characterized by a consortium of yeasts and lactic acid bacteria lab has shown to be an interesting pre-treatment in order to ameliorate sensory and textural quality as well as to improve the microbial safety of bran dalie et al.

moreover through fermentation an increased bioavailability of bioactive compounds and a decreased level of some anti-nutritional compounds can be obtained katina et al.

.little data are available in literature on microbial popu- lation during maize fermentation.

they mainly refer tomaize bran fermentation and on their contribution in promoting nutritional and functional properties of this cereal by-product.

thus this study was performed to characterize maize bran at microbiological and chemical level during a sourdough like fermentation process.materials and methodsfermentation process and chemical analysestwo commercial native maize brans c1 and c2--aver- age particle size 500-600 um--molino perteghella solarolo di goito mn italy molino spoletini arcevia an italy were subjected to spontaneous fermentations without microbial starters according to manini et al.

fermentation experiments were carried out in duplicate at 30 degc through continuous propagation until a stable microbiota was established 12 days.

the trend for the yeasts paralleled those of the lab population throughout fermentation.

the data obtained indicated that even if the lab count stayed higher than that of yeasts lab and yeasts had similar growth throughout the fermentation.

contra- rily to these fermenting microorganisms the molds pop- ulation with initial load of 104 cfug decreased rapidly after 2-3 days of fermentation.referring to nlab they increased of about four and five log cycles in c1 and c2 fermentation respectively.

