a class dendrogram of all the study isolates was constructed withthe correlation distance measured by the average linkage algorithm euclidean distances ofthe biotyper 2.0 software bruker daltonics 23. the maldi-tof spectra similaritydendrogram between cfxa positive and negative strains based on the mass spectralpatterns was used to study dispersion of spectra 24.3. results3.1 identifications of strains by maldi-tof ms and l6s rrna gene sequencingthe maldi-tof ms and l6s rrna gene sequencing of the clinical and referenceisolates clearly identified all strains as capnocytophaga l00 agreement at the genus leveland 4l53 77.4 were identified as the same at the species level table l with a scorel.8 and a reproducibility 4 minimum of 3l0 replicates had maldi confidence scoresl.8.

c. granulosa andanother as c. gingivalis by l6s rrna sequencing were identified as c. sputigena c. gingivalisand c. granulosa respectively by maldi-tof ms. the maldi-tof ms technique had limitedability to discriminate between c. gingivalis and c. granulosa two misidentified strains butthese species were similar as shown on the dendrogram of all capnocytophaga speciesidentified using maldi-tof ms figure l.3.2susceptibility testingfrom the total clinical capnocytophaga sp.

the five reference strains were cfxa pcr negative andsusceptible to beta-lactams.3.3 maldi-tof spectra similarity dendrogramthe maldi-tof spectra similarity dendrogram in which the strains were dispersedirrespective of their mass spectral patterns was unsuccessful in differentiating susceptibleand resistant strains data not shown.4.

using maldi-tof ms in this study we found improved capnocytophagagenus level identification l00 and a good human oral capnocytophaga species levelidentification 77.4. the six c. leadbetteri and four c. ahn strains recognized by l6s rrnasequencing were identified by maldi-tof ms as c. spp.

the maldi-tof ms method failed to detect cfxa positivecapnocytophaga strains compared to cfxa negative strains cultured in the presence orabsence of cefotaxime.

thisresult was not surprising because c. leadbetteri and c. ahn do not exist in the biotyper-bruker database used as was previously observed 4. in addition the maldi-tof msmethod could not completely discriminate between c. gingivalis and c. granulosa a findingthat is consistent with previous reports using multilocus enzyme electrophoretic analysis andserotyping of immunoglobulin al proteases 29. thus our results suggest that maldi-tofms can be used for rapid and reliable identification of most clinical capnocytophaga strains.we also investigated if maldi-tof ms could be used to detect the presence of thebeta-lactamase cfxa mainly responsible for cefotaxime resistance or one of its metabolitesin capnocytophaga strains.

the interpretation considered two independent parameters the value of thehomology score and the reproducibility of the identification obtained from l0measurements carried out after laser impacts where the same bacterial species must befound at least three times with the highest scores.to test if maldi-tof ms was able to differentiate between cfxa-negative and cfxa-positiveisolates bacterial pellets were also extracted after incubation of each isolate in the presenceof cefotaxime 0.5 mgl in brucella broth supplemented with 5 blood and vitamin kl lmgl under anaerobic conditions for 6 h. identification was performed as indicated abovefrom a deposit of a drop of pellet left to dry and score-oriented dendrogram of matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry profiles werecompared.the maldi-tof ms spectral data resulting from the analysis of 53 isolates were processedusing the bruker database software to identify species-specific masses that were then usedto generate dendrograms.

thefour capnocytophaga ahn ahn9576ahn9798ahn847lchdc strains identified by l6srrna sequencing were characterized as c. sputigena by maldi-tof ms. the six c.leadbetteri strains recognized by l6s rrna sequencing were identified as capnocytophaga.sp.

12 132 chu pontchaillou 2 rue henri le guilloux - 35033 rennes cedex 9 france 14 151617181920corresponding author anne jolivet-gougeon universite de rennes inserm numecancimiad 2 avenue du professeur leon bernard 35043 rennes france 24phone 33 2 23 23 49 05 - fax 33 2 23 23 49 l3 25e-mail 26 27abstractmatrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry maldi-tof ms was evaluated for rapid identification of cfxa pcr positive and negativecapnocytophaga strains.

distinctionbetween the cefotaxime resistant and susceptible strains was unsuccessful using the maldi-tof ms method.

the58classification of many described strains ahn remains uncertain.matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry maldi-tof ms is based on the protein composition of the microbial cell particularly ribosomalprotein contents and can discriminate clinical and environmental species.

in the same way we hopedto discriminate negative and positive cfxa strains culture of bacteria with cefotaxime wasalso tested to confirm the experiment.the aim of this study was to use maldi-tof ms for rapid species identification ofcapnocytophaga.

2 demonstratedthat maldi-tof ms could be used to differentiate between cfia-positive and cfia-negativebacteroides strains cultured on fastidious anaerobic agar at 35degc in an anaerobic chamberfor 24 to 48 h without use of antibiotic or beta-lactamase inhibitors.

in our study we could not discriminate between cefotaxime susceptible cfxa-positive and resistant cfxa-negative strains using the maldi-tof ms method and maldibiotyper 2.0 software as recommended by wybo et al.

ll used maldi-tof ms for rapid characterization ofcarbapenemase-producing enterobacteriaceae and genetic diversity among carbapenemase-producing strains.

