we have thus focused our attention on a complex comparative investigation of the in vitro and in vivo activities of phytochemically characterized epilobium angustifolium aqueous extract and oenothein b on prostate cancer cells pro- liferation.incubation of different cell lines with e. angustifolium aqueous extract resulted in a significant reduction of proliferation of pz-hpv-7 and lncap cells which was partly associated with antiandrogenic activity.

the aim of the study was also to fill the gap between the oeb in vitro activities and the in vivo effects on prostate cancer cell proliferation of orally admin- istered epilobium extract.results and discussionthe phytochemical analysis of the extract of e. angustifolium ea using the hplc-dad-msms method confirmed all previous stud- ies about the presence of hydrolysable tannins dimeric and tri- meric ellagitannins flavonol derivatives quercetin-3-o-glucuro- nide and other glycosides and phenolic acids caffeoylquinic ac- ids and the significant domination of oeb 15-19. the infusion prepared from commercial tea showed a similar hplc pattern as the ea extract.

the three other groups were supplemented once a day with epilobium extract ea as follows 50 mgkg b. w. n  8 iii 100 mgkg b. w. n  8 iv 200 mgkg b.w n  8 v. the rats were supplemented with the extract suspended in waterml daily via gavage from 70 days until 150 days of age sacri- fice time by decapitation.

evaluation of the effect of epilobium angustifolium aqueous extract on lncap cell proliferation in in vitro and in vivo modelsauthorsjakub p. piwowarski1 barbara bobrowska-korczak 2 iwona stanislawska 1 wojciech bielecki3 robert wrzesien 4 sebastian granica 1 katarzyna krupa 1 anna k. kiss 1affiliationsdepartment of pharmacognosy and molecular basisof phytotherapy medical university of warsaw polanddepartment of bromatology medical university of warsaw polanddepartment of pathology and veterinary diagnostics warsaw university of live sciences warsaw polandcentral laboratory of experimental animals medical university of warsaw polandkey wordsepilobium angustifolium onagraceae oenothein b prostate cancer lncap polyphenols metabolitesreceivedjanuary 30 2017revisedapril 3 2017accepted april 12 2017bibliographydoi httpsdoi.org10.1055s-0043-109372 published online april 28 2017  planta med 2017 83 1159- 1168 c georg thieme verlag kg stuttgart  new york issn 0032-0943correspondencedr.

oral supplementation of rats implanted with lncap cells with e. angustifolium aque- ous extract 50-200 mgkg b. w. resulted in a reduction of the occurrence of prostatic adenoma up to 13 .

oenothein b was not detected in the urine and feces of the e. angustifolium aqueous extract-treated group however conjugates of nasu- tins gut microbiota metabolites of ellagitannins were de- tected in the urine while in human volunteers supplemented with epilobium tea only urolithin conjugates were present.despite observing significant and consistent effects in vitro and in vivo we were unable to point out unequivocally the fac- tors contributing to the observed e. angustifolium aqueous ex- tract activity facing the problems of an unknown metabolic fate of oenothein b and interspecies differences in e. angusti- folium aqueous extract gut microbiota metabolism.introductioninfusions of epilobium sp.

oral administration of e. angustifolium aqueous extract to un- castrated and testosterone-stimulated castrated rats 40 mgkgb.

w. for 14-20 days resulted in an antiandrogenic effect in thefirst group significant reduction of the seminal vesicles' weight and a proandrogenic effect in the latter induction of prostate and seminal vesicles' weights 9. the influence of e. angustifolium dry aqueous extract standardized for total flavonoid 0.44  polyphe- nols 9.39  and sterols 0.18  content on estrogenic receptors a era and b erb in the animal model was also examined.

the extract given 40 mgkgb.

w. intragastrically to testosterone- stimulated castrated rats for 21 days slightly increased the level of era mrna and decreased the erb mrna in comparison to testos- terone-treated control and similarly but less pronounced in com- parison to a positive control receiving finasteride 10. other pre- liminary results of the same scientific group showed a slight anti- androgenic effect in rats and swine supplemented with the same extract as above 11 12. the pharmacological in vitro and in vivo studies do not resolve the beneficial effect for e. angustifolium preparation in prostate disorders as they are inconclusive lack of extracts standardization or too preliminary animal studies.

our previous study has indeed confirmed that urolithins low molecular weight dibenzopyran-6-one bioavailable derivatives are produced from the ellagitannins present in crude epilobium aqueous extract 7 but recently performed investigations have shown that the pure oeb in contrary to other tested ellagitannins is not transformed to urolithins after incubation with human gut microbiota 14.taking this point into consideration we focused our attention on the investigation and comparison of the in vitro and in vivo ef-fect of phytochemically characterized e. angustifolium aqueous ex- tract on prostate cancer cells proliferation.

in- cubation of cells with ea extract 20 50 70 ugml resulted in a concentration-dependent manner and statistically significant re- duction of proliferation of pz-hpv-7 and lncap cell lines without affecting the viability of normal nhdfs cells  fig.

5 have demonstrated that an ethanolic extract of e. angustifolium 50 ugml e. spicatum synonym used in the ar- ticle decreased pz-hpv-7 cell viability to 78 - 2  which was con- firmed by our results indicating that ea at the same concentration decreased the viability to 46 - 5 .

since oeb is determined as a main constituent of ea extracts it seems to be responsible for the activity of this medicinal herb 2 13. thus we also tested the ef- fect of oeb at the concentration corresponding to the content of the compound in the ea extract 70 ugml - 7 um 50 ugml -um 20 ugml - 2 um.

similar to antiandrogens oenothein b and ea extract inhib- ited dht-induced ar translocation to the nucleus  fig.

