vaginal lactobacillus strains l. crispatus atcc 33820t l. vaginalis ncfb 2810 l. gasseri atcc 33323t l. jensenii rc28 and l. jensenii atcc 25258 and lactobacillus johnsonii atcc 20553 were cultured anaerobically on mrs agar becton dickinson  company sparks md in jars at 37degc.

qpcr was performed on swab genomic dna gdna for 16s or16s-23s rrna genes of a. vaginae g. vaginalis l. crispatus l. gasseri l. iners l. jensenii l. vaginalis and total lactobacillus and the mucin-desulfating sulfatase mdsc gene from p. bivia as previously described  .

raffinose elevated the maximal growths of l. crispatus p  0.0001 l. gasseri p  0.05 and l. vaginalis p  0.01 causing medium acidification only in l. vaginalis culture p  0.05 .

we showed that supplementation of bacterial monocul- tures with lactulose stimulated l. crispatus l. gasseri l. vaginalis and l. jensenii rc-28 while antagonizing c. albicans and a. vaginae indicating its ability to selectively propagate a range of commensals but not vaginal pathogens.

although lactitol only stimulated l. crispatus growth p  0.0001 acidic products were produced by both lactitol-inoculated l. crispatus p  0.001 and l. jensenii rc-28 p  0.05 .

lactulose treatment also correspond- ingly lowered the ph compared to that in media without prebiotic for l. crispatus p  0.001 and l. jensenii rc-28 p  0.001 .

while not stimulating potential patho- gens.since an l. crispatus-dominated vaginal microbiota is most strongly correlated with positive health outcomes   and strains of the same species can vary greatly in their ability to degrade sugars the metabolism of lactulose by 15 clinical l. crispatus isolates was also evaluated.

with those from subjects 1 3 and 4 mostly composed of l. crispatus and that of subject 2 was mostly composed of l. iners .

although lactulose did not improve the viability of l. iners the drastically lowered medium ph suggests that lactulose was fermented by l. iners to produce acidic metabolites .

however other researchers have observed that raffinose can be used by trichomonas vaginalis  the vaginal parasite responsible fortrichomoniasis which further underscores the unsuitability of this compound as an effective vaginal health agent.oligofructose was utilized by l. gasseri and l. jensenii 25258 in our study and by lactobacillus acidophilus in a previous investigation .

j r stat soc 44139 -177.lopes dos santos santiago g tency i verstraelen h verhelst r trog m temmerman m vancoillie l decat e cools p vaneechoutte m. 2012. longitudinal qpcr study of the dynamics of l. crispatus l. iners a. vaginae sialidase positive g. vaginalis and p. bivia in the vagina.

.de backer e verhelst r verstraelen h alqumber ma burton jp tagg jr temmerman m vaneechoutte m. 2007. quantitative determination by real-time pcr of four vaginal lactobacillus species gardnerella vaginalis and atopobium vaginae indicates an inverse relationship between l. gasseri and l. iners.

the disaccharide lactulose was found to most broadly and specifi- cally stimulate vaginal lactobacilli including the strongly health-associated species l. crispatus and importantly not to stimulate bv organisms or c. albicans.

this suggests that l. iners produces fermentation products upon lactulose inoculation despite not growing.

despite being extracted from healthy and bv-affected women all l. crispatus isolates were stimulated by lactulose treatment see fig.

