interestingly donors 8 16 and 22 correspond to three among the four volunteers who showed 100 of ex vivo antagonism around their stool against the enteropathogenic indicators table 1. however all 14 isolates presented in vitro antagonistic activity against s. typhimurium table 2 reinforcing the limitation of the results obtained with in vitro assays and the importance of a gnotobiotic animal model to confirm in vivo an antagonistic effect observed in vitro.figure 3 shows the faecal population levels of s. typhi- murium in gf mice previously mono-associated or not control during seven days with three of the 14 selected bacteria - enterococcus hirae strain 8.2 bacteroides thetaiotaomicron strain 16.2 and lactobacillus ruminis strain 18.1 as well as the faecal levels of the mono- associated bacterium.

in the present study the b. thetaiotaomicron 16.2 showed an unusual broad spectrum of antagonistic action inhibiting five indicators in vitro l. monocytogenes s. typhimurium s. flexneri v. cholera and e. coli as well as s. typhimurium in the ex vivo assay.

table 1 also shows that in terms of sensitivity of each indicator bacteria l. monocytogenes and enteropathogenic e. coli were inhibited by 80 of the stool samples s. typhimurium and s. flexneri by 73 v. cholerae by 67 c. perfringens by 47 and c. difficile by 40. for the following steps of in vitro tests nine donors four men and five women were selected because of their stool sample's antagonism against at least five indicator bacteria 3 8 9 15 16 17 18 19 and 22 table 1.in vitro antagonistic assayfrom the stools of the nine volunteers selected above a total of 51 bacteria were isolated from the dominant microbiota cultivable on blood agar to be submitted to in vitro antagonistic assays.

typhimurium st in germ-free mice infected with st 104 cfuml or infected with st after previous colonisation with a bacterial strain 108 cfuml from stool samples of healthy human donors a enterococcus hirae strain 8.2 b bacteroides thetaiotaomicron strain 16.2 and c lactobacillus ruminis strain 18.1.  indicates statistical significant difference p0.05 by paired student-t test n2-3.

galvao et al.table 2. in vitro antagonism against enteropathogenic bacterial indicators as inhibitory zone around 28 bacteria isolated from stool samples from healthy human donors.12shows regarding sensitivity of indicator bacteria s. flexneri and s. typhimurium were inhibited by 89 of the isolates enteropathogenic e. coli by 82 l. monocytogenes and v. cholerae by 46 c. difficile by 50 and c. perfringens by 32 of the isolates.the isolates 8.2 15.6 16.1 18.1 and 18.4 had the highest inhibitory spectrum acting against 100 of the pathogens while the isolates 8.3 and 19.1 did not inhibit any pathogen.

the study agrees with our results confirming that at least in vitro gram-positive components of the dominant faecal microbiota generally have a higher potential for antagonism than the gram-negative ones.after mono-association with 14 bacteria only seven groups showed ex vivo antagonistic activity against s. typhimurium although all isolates presented antagonistic activity in the in vitro assays.

each volunteer filled out a form containing some demographic information address contacts sex age occupation diet and signed an informed consent form.stool samples from 15 human volunteersex vivo antagonismselection of stool with high colonisation resistance at least five positive antagonismsisolation of dominant stool microbiotain vitro antagonismselection of bacteria with high antagonism at least five positive antagonismsidentification by 16s rdna sequencingin vivo and ex vivo antagonisms monoassociated miceselection of bacteria showing ex vivo antagonism and reducing salmonella typhimurium levelsuse of selected bacteria to protect mice against oral challenge with s. typhimuriumspleen and liver translocation histopathological examination morphometric determinationfigure 1. experimental steps used in the study.animalsgerm-free gf 6-8 weeks-old swissnih mice of both sexes taconic germantown ny usa were used for experiments.

2006 gram-positive bacteria isolated from the dominant faecal microbiota of healthy human showed a high frequency of in vitro antagonism against the enteropathogens shigella sonnei and s. typhimurium but with some variation among the donors.

2000 studied the inhibitory activity of 14 human strains of bifidobacterium against s. typhimurium and showed that only two of them expressed in vitro antagonist activity.

finally in the case of volunteer 22 the antagonist capacity against all the indicator bacteria observed in the ex vivo assay could be explained by the complementary action of his faecal isolates for example 22.7 and 22.8 or 22.4 and 22.1 together covered the entire spectrum of indicator pathogens.in vivo antagonistic assayfrom the in vitro antagonism assays 14 bacteria were selected because they showed inhibition against at least five indicator bacteria table 3. the 16s rdna sequencing of these isolates revealed the presence of one enterococcuscolonisation resistance in human stoolstable 3. identification by rdna 16s sequencing of bacteria isolated from stool samples from healthy human donors and ex vivoassay against salmonella typhimurium after their mono-association with germ-free mice.species two lactobacillus species three bifidobacterium species four bacteroides species and four bacteria were not determined.

typhimurium st e and f germ-free mice mono-associated with lactobacillus ruminis strain 18.1 and challenged with st g and h germ-free mice mono-associated with bacteroides thetaiotaomicron strain 16.2 and challenged with st i and j germ-free mice mono-associated with enterococcus hirae strain 8.2 and challenged with st. long arrows indicate lymphoid aggregate in plaques and areas of increased cellularity of the lamina propria resulting in enlargement of the villi.

typhimurium st e and f germ-free mice mono-associated with lactobacillus ruminis strain 18.1 and challenged with st g and h germ-free mice mono-associated with bacteroides thetaiotaomicron strain 16.2 and challenged with st i and j germ-free mice mono-associated with enterococcus hirae strain 8.2 and challenged with st. arrows indicate foci with increased cellularity.

after five days of infection the group associated with e. hirae 8.2 showed a reduction in the translocation of s. typhimurium to the spleen while the group associated with l. ruminis 18.1 presented an increased translocation to the liver.

inversely the group with l. ruminis 18.1 showed higher s. typhimurium countsst controla6st group with b. thetaiotaomicron 16.2b.

journal of applied microbiology 97 29-37.stecher b. chaffron s. kappeli r hapfelmeier s. freedrich s. weber t.c.

