although in vitro studies of the effect of s. aureus on skin cells is important mechanistically in vivo murine models of live s. aureus colonization have provided even stronger evidence that s. aureus colonization can induce ad skin phenotypes.

collectively these and several other reports provide strong supporting mechanistic evidence that can explain how s. aureus colonization could promote ad in genetically susceptible individuals.current therapeutic strategies to combat s. aureusthe etiologic role of s. aureus in ad suggested by the work discussed suggests that targeted elimination of s. aureus should be beneficial.

2017 137377-84. pubmed 27765722figure 1. cells that participate in skin health and disruption during atopic dermatitis interactions among the skin microbiome bacteria fungi and viruses resident cells in the skin keratinocytes fibroblasts adipocytes neural elements and vasculature and bone marrow-derived cells of the immune system dendritic cells lymphocytes are granulocytesare essential for homeostasis in healthy skin.

2012. indeed recent work has shown that not only is s. aureus increased on ad skin but that specific strains of s. aureus are associated with more severe ad byrd et al.

using 16s ribosomal rna gene dna sequencing the researchers did not detect significant increases in s. aureus colonization on the 10 infants who developed ad and they therefore concluded that s. aureus colonizes skin after onset of ad.

the presence of these coagulase-negative staphylococcus strains was strongly associated with protection against s. aureus in the normal population and when an expanded culture of these beneficial bacteria was applied to the skin of ad subjects this significantly reduced s. aureus colonization.

in 2017 we described apotential method to specifically target s. aureus colonization on ad skin using a skin microbiome transplant nakatsuji et al.

aureus colonization in longitudinal studiesalthough multiple clinical studies had previously shown increased s. aureus colonization in children and adult patients with existing ad it remains unclear if s. aureus precedes the onset of clinically apparent disease.

2017.recent experimental evidence that s. aureus can induce ad-like phenotypesexperiments done in vitro and in mice suggest that s. aureus could promote disease through secretion of multiple virulence factors.

both 16s and metagenomic analyses of bacterial dna have shown that the skin microbiome on ad subjects has decreased bacterial diversity and increased s. aureus colonization kong et al.

2017. these observations considered together with work that has shown how normal commensal skin bacteria can promote health support the hypothesis that dysbiosis in ad is critical to driving disease severity andor tendency for relapse williams and gallo 2015.in this study we observed a distinct increase of s. aureus prevalence at age 3 months in infants who later developed ad.s.

we have shown that colonization of murine skin by s. aureus directly induces serine protease activity that disrupts the epidermal barrier williams et al.

2017 and that expression of t helper type 2 cytokines in the skin a hallmark of the ad phenotype is dependent on proteases secreted by s. aureus nakatsuji et al.

2013 have observed that s. aureus delta toxin increases allergic responses and promotes both inflammation and desquamation of the skin surface.

ad probably is a clinical phenotype that can be driven by a defect in any of these elements and one of the key drivers of disease can be colonization by an abnormal skin microbiome that includes s. aureus.

