ft-cs infants initially had a higher relative proportion of firmicutes at 1 week of age compared to ft-svd p  0.05 and less actinobacteria p  0.001. at 4 weeks of age actinobacteria p  0.01 and bacteroi- detes p  0.001 were more abundant in ft-svd in- fants again with firmicutes less abundant p  0.01. within the ft-cs group actinobacteria significantly in- creased in relative abundance from 1 to 4 weeks of age p  0.001. bacteroidetes increased significantly in pro- portion from week 4 to week 8 p  0.05 and again from week 8 to week 24 p  0.001. thus the ft-cs micro- biota progressed over time to one which is similar to the ft-svd infants with no differences at phylum level at either 8 weeks or 24 weeks of age.the most pronounced difference between the ft-cs infant gut and the pt-cs gut is evident at 1 week of age when there is a significantly higher proportion of pro- teobacteria in pt infants p  0.001. the pt-cs group also harbours an initially high relative proportion of fir- micutes at week 1 before becoming dominated by both actinobacteria and firmicutes from weeks 4 to 24.genus levelthe infant gut is dynamic and a number of genera dem- onstrate significant abundance differences between groups fig.

similarly lactobacil- lus was also most abundant in ft-svd mean 3.98 log cfug and lowest in pt-cs infants mean 1.12 log cfug at week 1. counts increased in all groups ex- cept pt-svd from week 1 to week 4 from week 4 to week 8 counts were stable in the pt-cs ft-cs and ft-svd groups while an increase was observed in pt-svd infants.discussionin this prospective study we compared the gut micro- biota of a cohort of initially breastfed infants from a sin- gle geographical area cork ireland who were born under different conditions svd or cs delivery modes either ft or pt in parallel with clinical data to 2 years.

diversity of all four groups increases from week 1 to week 4. ft- svd increases in diversity between 1 and 4 weeks of age p  0.001 then diversity reduces slightly between week 4 and week 8 p  0.001 before increasing again between week 8 and 24 p  0.001. pt-cs diversity in- creased from weeks 1 to 4 p  0.001 4 to 8 p  0.001 and showed a trend toward an increase from week 8 to 24 p  0.1. ft-cs increased from weeks 1 to 4 p  0.001 and weeks 8 to 24 p  0.01 but not between weeks 4 and8.

the genera that are abundant at week 1 decrease in rela- tive abundance by week 24 branch 1 as other genera begin to emerge at detectable levels as the infants age branch 2. this trend is visible through week 8 when another cluster of genera begins to emerge branch 3. by week 24 the genera that were most abundant at week 1 have markedly reduced in proportion branch 1. gen- era on branch 2 have low relative abundances whereas genera on branch 3 are found to be quite highlyabundant.

more work is needed to establish if the microbiota is a causative agent of this al- tered metabolomic profile and if modulation of the infant gut microbiota would restore the metabolomic profile of a pt infant to that of a ft infant.there was a strong temporal separation of the infant gut microbiota showing close grouping together by age particularly for the samples at week 1 and week 24 fig.

we identified genera which were differentially abundant in at least two of the groups and thus found 21 genera that had dissimilar abundances at week 1 41 genera at week 4 39 genera at week 8 and 25 genera at week 24 additional file tables s10-s13.

pro- longed breastfeeding 4 months was found to impact the gut microbiota of ft-cs infants but not ft-svd infants.bacteroides were significantly more abundant in ft- svd infants compared to ft-cs infants over the first month of life indicating an important role perhapssimilar to the importance currently attributed to bifido- bacterium in the early development of the infant gut microbiota.taken together these data highlight the importance of breastfeeding particularly for infants born via caesarean delivery mode and the data provide new opportunities for optimisation of imf composition with appropriate new bioactive ingredients such as milk fractions probio- tics and prebiotics to effectively programme the early in- fant gut microbiota in a manner closer to mother's milk.

the statistical analysis of pt-svd gut microbiota development was hin- dered by low subject numbers but notwithstanding this limitation we observed a number of significant changes between week 8 and week 24 with relatively few changes at earlier time points additional file table s17.co-abundance analysis is a useful way to reveal higher- level constraints and associations in microbiota compos- ition we therefore examined the relationship between abundances of genera.

the pt gut has a number of unique initial chal- lenges at birth resulting in a distinct initial composition at 1 week of age high in proteobacteria p  0.001. there was very little development of the ft-svd micro- biota composition throughout the first 24 week of life with ft-svd infants retaining a relative stable micro- biota composition over this period while ft-cs infants develop a similar composition to ft-svd after 8 weeks of age.

using t tests with monte-carlo permutations we determined that at week 1 twins' microbiota were more similar within twin pairs than between non-twin pairs spearman distance test p  0.001. this is also true at weeks 4 8 and 24 p  0.001 at each time point additional file  figure s2.gut microbiota of preterm infants is influenced by post-birth agefor the week 1 time point all infants were approxi- mately 1 week post-birth range 6 to 8 days.

we observed that the groups have a different diversity relative to each other at week 24 when compared to week 1. at 1 week of agethe ft-svd microbiota displays the highest diversity of all groups while pt-svd is lowest.

bifidobacteria numbers increased across all groups from week 1 to week 4 while at week 8 counts were observed to stabilise.

microbiome 2017 54doi 10.1186s40168-016-0213-yevolution of gut microbiota composition from birth to 24 weeks in the infantmet cohortcian j. hill12 denise b. lynch12 kiera murphy123 marynka ulaszewska5 ian b. jeffery1 carol anne o'shea4 claire watkins3 eugene dempsey4 fulvio mattivi5 kieran tuohy5 r. paul ross12 c. anthony ryan24paul w. o' toole12 and catherine stanton23backgroundthe gut microbiota is increasingly regarded as an 'invis- ible organ' of the human body and considered an im- portant factor for host health.

a few published studies with high subject numbers examining the pt gut microbiota mainly focus on the initial hospitalised period a knowledge gap surrounding pt gut microbiota develop- ment was recently highlighted and to our know- ledge the current study is the largest well-phenotyped analysis of the longitudinal microbiota development of pt infants after leaving the hospital environment.

it has previously been suggested that post-conceptional age ra- ther than post-birth age is the main determinant of the bacterial community profile in preterm infants  the aforementioned factors were found to influence the pace but not the sequence of microbial acquisition.metabolites have been shown to influence regulatory t cells in the gut with changes posited to contribute to autoimmune diseases including inflammatory bowel disease asthma allergies arthritis and multiple sclerosis  4. these conditions have also been linked to cs and pt birth.in this prospective study we compared the gut micro- biota of initially breastfed infants from a single geo- graphical area cork ireland who were born under different birth modes svd or cs and different gesta- tional ages ft or pt in the same maternity hospital.

