recent findings suggest that there may be selectable plant traits that enhance entomopathogen efficacy suggesting that entomopathogens could potentially impose selection pressure on plant traits that improve both path- ogen and plant fitness.

for example plant allelochemicals can strongly alter insect nutrient intake and utilization simpson and raubenheimer  suggesting that the strength of insect immune functioning cannot be predicted from plant nutritional content in the presence of plant allelochemicals.

since the quality of plant protein is highly variable between plant species and between tissues within a plant felton  plant-mediated effects on the cuticle deserve more attention.consumption of phytochemicals and nutrients to increase resistance against entomopathogenssome insects can take advantage of toxic phytochemicals by sequestering them to protect against predation and parasitism nishida .

such traits could be targeted in plant breeding programs to improve the compati- bility of plant defenses with entomopathogens to maximize plant protection.intraspecific genetic variation is fundamental for species to respond rapidly to environmental conditions.

on the other hand since the most important roles of plant de- fense chemicals is probably for protection against herbivores and plant pathogens it may be too speculative to think that plant genotype-mediated variation in entomopathogen efficacy could be beneficial enough for plants to warrant selective changes in their defense traits.

a insect- entomopathogen interactions can be influenced by differential changes in plant quality induced by the dynamic community of herbivores feeding on the same plant including those that feed on different plant tissues and use different modes of feeding.

c plant pathogens and d plant beneficial microbes can influence insect resistance to entomopathogens by changing plant defenses and nutritional quality.

some insect symbionts and gut microbes can degrade ingested defensive phytochemicals and be orally secreted onto wounded plant tissue during herbivory to alter plant defenses.

within this multitrophic context nu- merous complex interactions have been identified including the alteration of plant defenses by plant and insect associated mutualistic symbionts and phytopathogens that can influence the performance of insect herbivores biere and bennett  biere and tack  shikano et al.

d entomopathogens might potentially mitigate negative plant effects by influencing the evolution of plant defenses.

instead i suggest that entomopathogens may impose selection pressure on plant traits that benefit both plant and entomopathogen fitness fig.

these can include variation between plant species genotypes within a species parts within a plant ontogenetic stages seasons and fertilization treatments genc et al.

this suggests that the impact of changes in plant quality on cross-generational insect disease dynamics may de- pend on numerous factors including the nutritional composi- tion and content of the plants and the influence of plant de- fenses on the ability of insects to ingest and extract nutrients.evolutionarily food quality can impose conflicting selec- tion pressures on the dual functions of the insect's gut to serve as a barrier against entomopathogens and extract nutrients from food vijendravarma et al.

the study controlled for direct plant effects on conidia germination by exposing insects from both willow species to fungal conidia on foliage from the same plant species birch.

found that among 14 crop plant species the lethality of a baculovirus against beet armyworms was only significantly reduced by a few plant species.

