hindawibiomed research internationalvolume 2017 article id 8102589 6 pages review articleexclusive enteral nutrition induces remission in pediatric crohn's disease via modulation of the gut microbiotadawei gong1 xinjuan yu1 lili wang1 lingling kong2 xiaojie gong3 and quanjiang dong11department of central laboratories and gastroenterology qingdao municipal hospital school of medicine qingdao university qingdao 266071 china2department of gastroenterology the affiliated hospital of qingdao university qingdao 266071 china3department of emergency surgery the fifth people's hospital of jinan jinan 250022 chinacorrespondence should be addressed to quanjiang dong received 10 june 2017 revised 22 august 2017 accepted 12 september 2017 published 16 october 2017academic editor dimitrios p. bogdanoscopyright c 2017 dawei gong et al.

by using principal coordinate analysis a method commonly used to compare the microbial structures of different subjects sokol et al.

10 and sabino et al.

next generation gene sequencing technology also has been applied to study the effects of een treatment on the whole intestinal microbial community.quince et al.

guinet-charpentier et al.

furthermore kaakoush et al.

in a study by schaubeck et al.

of particular note the een treatment increased the relative and absolute num- ber of treg cells in the peripheral blood which could be explained by the significantly altered fecal bacterial com- munities 22. increased numbers of gram-positive bacteria within the phylum firmicutes and decreased numbers of gram-negative bacteria within the phylum bacteroidetes were also observed during een treatment .alterations of microbial metabolites after een treatmentin order to study the impact of microbiota dysbiosis in ibd on bile acid metabolism and epithelial inflammation duboc et al.

the secondary bile acids showed anti-inflammatory activities 49. to determine the microbial metabolism alterations in the intestinal ecosystem of ibd patients morgan et al.

gerasimidis et al.

prausnitzii and butyric acid levels as well as increased sulfide and fecal ph were observed during een treatment.in a study by dunn et al.

borrelli l. cordischi m. cirulli et al.

levine d. turner t. p. gik et al.

m. ruemmele g. veres k. l. kolho et al.

w. palm m. r. de zoete t. w. cullen et al.

