the microbiota is also related to the development of the gut associated lymphoid tissue galt the host immune system stimulating iga secretion and inhibiting colonization of the git by pathogens 4 5. in addition protective functions are performed by the microbiota through com- petition with pathogens for nutrients and receptors and the production of antimicrobial molecules to avoid colonization by pathogens through ligands from commensal bacteria as lipopolysaccharide lps the gut microbiota influences the mucosal immune system development and function 22. the innate immune system can also recognize potentially pathogenic microbes through tlrs identification of particu- lar molecules called pathogen associated molecular patterns pamp 27. this leads to an increase in cytokine levels and t-cell activation which are necessary for appropriate immune responses to pathogens  .

furthermore exercise initiated in early life may favor optimal development of brain function promoting health-enhancing microbial species 55. using gf mice models recent studies suggested that the gut microbiota may alter brain function 5-58. for examplein rats lactobacillus rhamnosus can reduce anxiety and depressive-like behavior attenuate hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal axis activation following a stress challenge and produce changes in gaba receptor expression via the vagus nerve evidence suggests that different metabolites and signaling molecules produced by gut microorganisms as scfas can activate vagal afferents receptors of the enteric nervous system  these signals are propagated by the nucleus of the solitary tract to various projection regions such as limbic structures important for mood and behavior 55. therefore especially during juvenile period exercise and gut microbiota represent important factors to promote both brain and metabolic development 5.controlled exercise and gut microbiota.

recent studies suggest that an increase in exercise can enhance the number of beneficial microbial species and that the microbiota is responsive to the homeostatic and physiological variations due to exercise in this paper we review the recent knowledge of the role played by exercise as an environmental factor in determining changes in the microbial composition and how these effects could provide benefits to health and disease prevention.the gut microbiota composition and developmentthe human gastrointestinal tract git is inhabited by 1013- 1014 microorganisms and their genome the microbiome contains a gene set which is about 150 times greater than that of human genome 3. this microbiome derives from about 1000-1150 bacterial species mostly anaerobes and it is primarily made up of two bacterial phyla bacteroidetes and firmicutes there is great variability in the number type and function of microorganisms along the entire git but most are located in the large bowel where they ferment nondigestible food components allowing us to obtain other- wise inaccessible nutrients  5. microbiome development starts in early life.

k b12 biotin folate and thiamine thus participating in the host metabolism 9 1.microbiota and diseasesthe gut microbiota is essential to maintain homeostasis and normal gut physiology several diseases have been associ- ated with an altered composition of the microbiota such as obesity coronary heart disease diabetes and inflammatory bowel disease -.

these series of evidence demonstrate that nutritional status and exercise influence gut microbiota and that the gut microbiota is asso- ciated with appetite regulating hormones have investigated whether in rats there were differences in the microbial composition when exercise started in the juvenile period or in adulthood.

in addition exercise- altered microbiota could be used to look for new approaches in the treatment of metabolic and inflammatory diseases in which it is well known that the microbiota plays an important role.competing intereststhe authors declare that they have no competing interests.authors' contributionsvincenzo monda and ines villano are equal contributors.referencess.

hindawioxidative medicine and cellular longevity volume 2017 article id 3831972 8 pages review articleexercise modifies the gut microbiota with positive health effectsvincenzo monda1 ines villano1 antonietta messina1 anna valenzano2 teresa esposito1 fiorenzo moscatelli2 andrea viggiano3 giuseppe cibelli2 sergio chieffi1 marcellino monda1 and giovanni messina121department of experimental medicine section of human physiology and unit of dietetic and sport medicine second university of naples naples italy2department of clinical and experimental medicine university of foggia foggia italy3department of medicine surgery and dentistry scuola medica salernitana university of salerno salerno italycorrespondence should be addressed to giovanni messina received 5 august 2016 revised 18 december 2016 accepted 5 january 2017 published 5 march 2017academic editor ryuichi morishitacopyright c 2017 vincenzo monda et al.

gut microbiota is involved in the barrier functions and in the maintenance of its homeostasis.

considering the microbiota ability to respond to homeostatic and physiological changes some researchers proposed that it can be seen as an endocrine organ.

evidence suggests that different factors can determine changes in the gut microbiota.

these changes can be both quantitative and qualitative resulting in variations of the composition and metabolic activity of the gut microbiota which in turn can affect health and different disease processes.

these observations suggest the presence of different host-microbiota correlations yet the gut ecosystem development and its stability canbe influenced by an existing dynamic balance between intrin- sic and extrinsic factors such as host physiology lifestyle exercise and diet which in turn can impact health for example decreased microbiota diversity and a higher ratio firmicutesbacteroidetes are associated with obesity type ii diabetes and altered blood glucose on the other hand exercise and high fiber diet such as fruits vegeta- bles legumes and whole-wheat grain products increase the microbic diversity .

this population once established presents a high interindividual variability 2. furthermore the gut microbe populations change in old age showing a significant decrease in bacteroidetes and an increase in firmicutes but the reason for this is not yet clear .functions of the intestinal microbiomethe gut microbiota plays various important functions for the host health.

the gut microbiota is essential for the motility of the gastrointestinal tract facilitating peristalsis  and it is involved in the fortification of the barrier and in the maintenance of its homeostasis.

the microbiota has also important effects on metabolic functions.

