The rest of significant compounds in the com- parison between CS and NS groups provided fold change ratios from 1.67 to 1.10.Random Forest Analysis was applied to compare the discrimination accuracy of significant compounds inthis study dealing with CS and NS groups.

This result is in agreement with EBC levels found in this research for indole the compound that reported the highest significance p-value 0.0006 comparing CS and NS with a fold change of 2.59 being more concentrated in NS individuals.

In this specific case undecanol was present at higher level in EBC from NS individuals than from CS which potentially could explain its formation through PUFA metabolites with anti-inflammatory capability.Special emphasis should be also put on monostearin which reported less significance 0.05  p-value 0.01 between CS and NS but experienced the highest fold change value 2.63 at higher levels in EBC from CS.

EBC was used in this research as clinical sample to compare three groups of individuals current smokers CS former smokers FS and never smokers NS.

Nevertheless for some cancers especially for adeno- carcinoma the risk remains high in FS as compared with non-smokers NS .Concerning 'omics' approaches metabolomics seems to be an ideal tool to assess the impact of cigarette smoke on human exposure and health.

Generic information about each group including mean age and body mass index.the smoking habit few metabolomics studies have been targeted at comparing the composition of any biofluid from CS and NS .

In a recent study the tobacco-related global metabolome in blood from CS and NS was identified by UPLC-QTOF.

Apart from identification of nicotine metabolites there was a characteristic meta- bolic profile contributing to discriminate CS and NS individuals.

The aim of the present research was to identify metabolites related to this habit by comparison of EBC samples from CS FS and NS.

For this purpose metabolomic profiles of samples from CS FS and NS individuals were obtained using the methodology developed by Peralbo-Molina et al.

