these findings supported that the exogenous fecal microbiota had significant effects on animal's growth performance intestinal barrier function and innate immune via modulating the composition of the gut microbiota.keywords exogenous fecal microbiota transplantation gut microbiota intestinal morphology intestinal barrier function newborn pigletsintroductionintestinal microbial flora plays an important role in human and animal health it has attracted more and more attention in recent years.

the scanning electron microscopes result indicated that that intestinal villus morphology was improved by fecal microbiota suspension.the integrity of the intestinal barrier structure is the basis for maintaining normal intestinal function.

previous studies have shown that intestinal microbiota can activate tlr2tlr4 on the luminal surface of epithelial cells and may subsequently improve intestinal barrier function through promoting the assembly of intestinal tight junction- associated molecules as well as regulating the proliferation and apoptosis of epithelial cells      .

exogenous fecal microbiota suspension changed the structure of intestinal microbial flora as well as contributed to the improvement of intestinal morphology the development of the intestinal mucosal barrier and innate immunity in recipient piglets.

the relative abundance of each target protein was expressed as the ratio of target proteinb-actin protein.detection of goblet cells and siga cellsthe morphology and distribution of goblet cells in the intestinal epithelium were observed by light microscopy after the wax were stained with pas according to the procedurestable 1  real-time pcr primers and conditions.table 2  the alpha diversity index of intestinal microflora in piglets.itemsday 12day 27of .

firmicutes can maintain intestinal health by producing short-chain fatty acids inhibit inflammation and provide energy for intestinal epithelial cells  .

up to now there were few studies about intervarietal fecal microbiota transplantation induced changes in the structure of intestinal microbial flora in pigs.as the gut of a newborn pig is not fully developed intestinal microbial floras are in an unstable state.

as the first line of defense against intestinal microbial invasion host goblet cells play a key role in the identification of intestinal microorganism  .

so in this study intestinal morphology and intestinal barrier function was improved via intervarietal fecal microbiota transplantation.there are a wide variety of antimicrobial peptides which aid congenital barrier resist microbial infection.

siga in the intestinal mucosa of mice that the intestinal microbial flora imbalanced caused by antibiotic were increased after receiving fecal microbiota suspension   .

exogenous fecal microbiota suspension stimulated proliferation of siga cells and the development of the intestinal immune system of piglets.the composition of intestinal microbiota and function of the immune system is closely related  .

the study indicated that the expression of tlrs were up-regulated under the condition that intestinal microbial flora was imbalanced and didn't change when the structure of intestinal microbiota restored to steady state.in summary some characteristics of donor pigs could be transferred to recipient neonatal piglets by fecal microbiota suspension in this study.

intestinal morphology and tight junction barrier of recipient piglets were improved.

the optical density of siga cells the number of goblet cells and relative expressions of muc2 in the intestinal mucosa of recipient piglets were enhanced.

protein expressions of b-defensin 2 and mrna expressions of tlr2 and tlr4 in the intestinal mucosa of recipient piglets were also increased.

