ohi-s scores of the poor and the moderate oral hygiene groups were significantly higher than those of good oral hygiene group p  0.002 and also the poor oral hygiene group had significantly higher ohi-s scores than those of the moderate oral hygiene group p  0.002. in addition dmft and dmft of the poor and the moderate oral hygiene groups were significantly higher com- pared to the good oral hygiene groups.furthermore correlational analysis between ohi-s score and dmft or dmft showed a strong correlation r2  0.898 and r2  0.999 respectively.

the agreement among all examiners in dental caries dmft decayed missing and filled teeth index and oral hygiene ohi-s was found to be 100 kappa statistics  1.0.the first group good oral hygiene was composed of 24 children with ohi-s scores of 0-1.2. the second group moderate oral hygiene was composed of 31 children with ohi-s scores of 1.3-3.0. the third group poor oral hygiene was composed of 35 children with ohi-s scores of 3.1-6.0. also at the same time dental caries experience was measured by using dmft for permanent teeth dmft for primary teeth.after the dental examination stimulated saliva samples were collected at according to a standardized protocol  each subject was instructed to chew 1 gram of paraffin gum for 1 minute until a solid bolus was formed.

sequencing using the illumina miseq instrument produced a dataset comprised of 4019174 reads containing general and oral condition of the 90 subjects.- shows standard deviations.a significant differences among groups were evaluated by the kruskal-wallis h-test post hoc mann-whitney u-test with bonferroni correction.b significant differences were evaluated by fisher's exact test.c significantly higher than the good oral hygiene group p 0.002d significantly higher than the moderate oral hygiene groupe significantly higher than the good oral hygiene group p  0.002f significantly higher than the good oral hygiene group p  0.05 and p  0.002 respectively.the v3-v4 region of which 3521550 passed quality control tests with an average length of 423 - 1 bp .

on the other hand veillonella s v. dispar and v. parvula were found in great proportions in the poor oral hygiene group relative to the good or moderate oral hygiene group.discussionthis study found that the salivary microbiome of children varied depending on oral hygiene status evaluated by ohi-s. the oral cavity consists of a humid environment with relatively constant temperature between 34 and 36c neutral ph and shelters a large variety of micro- organisms due to its numerous anatomical structures .

research articleexploring the salivary microbiome of children stratified by the oral hygiene indexizumi mashima123 citra f. theodorea34 boonyanit thaweboon5 sroisiri thaweboon5 frank a. scannapieco2 futoshi nakazawa31 japan society for the promotion of science chiyoda-ku tokyo japan 2 department of oral biology school of dental medicine university at buffalo the state university of new york buffalo new york united states of america 3 department of microbiology school of dentistry health sciences university of hokkaido ishikari-tobetsu hokkaido japan 4 department of oral biology faculty of dentistry universitas indonesia jakarta indonesia 5 department of oral microbiology faculty of dentistry mahidol university bangkok thailand abstractopen accesscitation mashima i theodorea cf thaweboon b thaweboon s scannapieco fa nakazawa f 2017 exploring the salivary microbiome of children stratified by the oral hygiene index.

in this study the salivary microbiome was characterized in a group of children stratified by the simplified oral hygiene index ohi-s. illumina miseq high-throughput sequencing based on the 16s rrna was utilized to analyze 90 salivary samples 24 good 31 moderate and 35 poor oral hygiene from a cohort of thai children.

of these twenty genera the proportion of strep- tococcus decreased while veillonella increased with poor oral hygiene status p  0.05. fur- thermore an unassigned species of veillonella veillonella dispar and veillonella parvula tended to be elevated in the poor oral hygiene group.

these results suggest that the micro- biome in the good and poor oral hygiene groups differed relative to the moderate oral hygiene group.

these findings indicated that salivary microbiome in children differed by ohi-s score but there were some similar microbiome compositions in each group.two indices of alpha diversity indicated that salivary bacterial communities in the good and poor oral hygiene group were less diverse compared to the moderate oral hygiene groupp  0.05 .

of these twenty genera genus streptococcus and genus veillonella showed significant differences p  0.05 in their proportions between the good oral hygiene group and the poor oral hygiene group .

in contrast streptococcus s and streptococcus anginosus s. anginosus were associated strongly with the good oral hygiene group and veillonella s veillonella dispar v. dispar and veillonella parvula v. parvula were associated strongly with the poor oral hygiene group .

the significant differences were evaluated by the kruskal-wallis h-test post hoc mann-whitney u-test with bonferroni correction p  0.05. the error bar indicated 95 confidence intervals.great proportions in the good oral hygiene groups relative to the moderate or poor oral hygiene groups.

it is accepted that the number of bacteria in saliva is inversely related to oral hygiene status however it is not clear if the diversity of bacteria is affected by oral hygiene status.

this is the first study demonstrating a potentially important association between veillonella and poor oral hygiene status in children suggesting that veillonella may serve as a biological indicator for poor oral hygiene status.supporting informations1 fig.

this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the  which permits unrestricted use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original author and source are credited.data availability statement all relevant data are within the paper and its supporting information files and the obtained sequence data are available in ddbj sequence read archive under accession number dra005424.funding this study was supported by the japan society for the promotion of science 15j30007 to im 26462793 to fn  research institute of personalized health sciences health sciences university of hokkaido 2014-200-3 2016-200-4 to fn poor oral hygiene often leads to chronic diseases such as periodontitis and dental caries result- ing in substantial economic costs and diminished quality of life in not only adults but also in chil- dren.

