clinical oral implants research 25 1192-1199.dabdoub s. m. tsigarida a. a.  kumar p. s. 2013. patient-specific analysis of periodontal and peri-implant microbiomes.

taxa that were present in 50 of samples in either the h or p groups but were not part of the core microbiomeconsidering all samples constituted the healthy or peri-implantitis core microbiomes respectively.3  results  demographic and clinical characteristics of the subjectseighty-two patients contributing with one implant per patient were initially included in the investigation.

oral diseases 22 330-337.belstrom d. paster b. j. fiehn n. e. bardow a.  holmstrup p. 2016. salivary bacterial fingerprints of established oral disease revealed by the human oral microbe identification using next generation sequencing homings technique.

plos one 9 e90234.socransky s. s.  haffajee a. d. 2005. periodontal microbial ecology.periodontology 2000 38 135-187.teles r. p. bogren a. patel m. wennstrom j. l. socransky s. s.  haffajee a. d. 2007. a three-year prospective study of adult sub- jects with gingivitis ii microbiological parameters.

clinical oral implants research 27 656-661.belstrom d. holmstrup p. bardow a. kokaras a. fiehn n. e.  paster b. j.

interactions between those taxa and smoking as well as implant type were as- sessed using anova.the core microbiome of the dataset was determined based on taxa present with 0.1 relative abundance in 50 of all samples as de- termined by homings abusleme et al.

finally the analysis of de- mographic and clinical data from the sampled population showed that the groups comprising healthy h n  32 and diseased peri- implant sites p n  35 were well-balanced for age gender implant wear implant location and type of restoration table 1. smokers comprised 42.9 of the p group and 21.9 of the h group respec- tively p  .03. straumann was the most frequently used implantsystem in both groups 71.9 in h and 47.1 in p while other sys- tems i.e.

journal of oral microbiology 9 1270614.belstrom d. holmstrup p. fiehn n. e. rosing k. bardow a. paster b. j.  lynge pedersen a. m. 2016. bacterial composition in whole saliva from patients with severe hyposalivation-a case-control study.

the impact of the implant system on the local microbiome seemed to be less evident figure 3c.because our results indicated that smoking and implant type could be possible confounders when the microbiome of peri- implant health and disease was compared potential interactionsfigure 3 principal coordinate analysis pcoa of the microbial composition of samples according to disease status a smoking habit b and brand of implant c. graphs represent the pcoa plots of bray-curtis distances based on species-level data generated with homings.

at least one year after loading radiographic marginal bone loss of at least 2.0 mm mesially or dis- tally with concomitant bleeding on probing according to the defini- tions presented in the 6th european workshop on periodontology zitzmann  berglundh 2008. radiographic bone levels were re- corded by measuring the distance from the implant shoulder to the first visible bone to implant contact at the mesial and distal aspects of each implant using periapical radiographs.the successful implants group included implants with healthy surrounding soft and hard tissues determined by the absence ofpus and detectable radiographic bone loss and functional loading for at least 1 year.

journal of clinical periodontology 40 218-226.kumar p. s. mason m. r. brooker m. r.  o'brien k. 2012. pyrosequencing reveals unique microbial signatures associated with healthy and failing dental implants.

accepted 27 july 2017 doi 10.1111jcpe.12788epidemiol og y  c ohor t stud y or case-c ontr ol stud y exploring the microbiome of healthy and diseased peri-implant sites using illumina sequencingignacio sanz-martin1  janet doolittle-hall2  ricardo p. teles3  michele patel4  georgios n. belibasakis5  christoph h. f. hammerle6  ronald e. jung6  flavia r. f. teles31section of periodontology faculty of odontology university complutense of madrid madrid spain2department of dental ecology university of north carolina at chapel hill school of dentistry chapel hill nc usa3department of periodontology university of north carolina at chapel hill school of dentistry chapel hill nc usa4department of applied oral sciences the forsyth institute cambridge ma usa5department of dental medicine karolinska institute stockholm sweden6clinic of fixed and removable prosthodontics and dental materialscience center of dental medicine university of zurich zurich switzerlandcorrespondenceflavia r. f. teles department of periodontology unc school of dentistry chapel hill nc usa.email present addressesricardo p. teles department of periodontics penn dental medicine university of pennsylvania philadelphia.email flavia r. f. teles department of microbiology university of pennsylvania school of dental medicine philadelphia.email funding informationthis study was supported in part by an iti scholarship to i.s.m.

gender and age were recorded as well as plaque index pi bleeding on probing bop suppuration sup probing pocket depth ppd clinical bone loss bl in mm width of kerati- nized mucosa km implant wear time time since last check-up implant system used and nature of reconstruction single implant fixed or removable.

taxa in those core microbiomes were subgrouped based on the mean relative abundance of the taxa in samples in each clinical group.

plos one 12 e0169831.tsigarida a. a. dabdoub s. m. nagaraja h. n.  kumar p. s. 2015. the influence of smoking on the peri-implant microbiome.

