Because of similar pathophysi- ology affecting the brain-gut axis other functional GIdisorders including FD and GERD were reported among flood victims who developed abdominal pain which was not related to IBS and they also overlapped with IBS par- ticipants  .Patients with sporadic IBS have a poorer health-related QOL - and the same may occur in flood victims who developed IBS in our study.

Many toilets were unusable during and after the flood being submerged in the flood water and mud and therefore victims had no means for clean sanitation and hygiene.It is unknown if anxiety or environmental microbiota is the inciting factor for abdominal pain or IBS after flood but in the post-infectious IBS model the incit- ing factor is microbiota  and it then affects anxiety through the gut-brain axis.

The most differentially abundant bacteria taxa observed in those with IBS was the genus Plesiomonas and Trabulsiella with effect size approaching 3.0.DiscussionOur study provides evidence that persistent abdomi- nal pain is common 37.9 of studied population over 6 months following a flood disaster and almost half of the flood affected adults with abdominal pain also ful- filled the Rome III criteria for IBS.

Flood victims with abdominal pain and IBS were also more anxious and this is in keeping with previous reports of anxiety in IBS -.Previous published studies have shown reduction in QOL among flood victims in both physical and mental domains for example poor general health and energy in a Chinese study and poor physical and social function- ing in a Korean study  .

This is also in agreement with the higher anxiety score that we observed in flood victims with IBS and not in those without IBS.Our study provides evidence that persistent abdomi- nal pain following massive flood is associated with poor WaSH practices.

FD GERD and IBS was present in 9.1 n  4.Table 1 Factors associated with persistent abdominal pain in a flood-affected communitySEM standard error of the mean WaSH water sanitation and hygiene Significant P value  0.05None of those without abdominal pain n  131 had any of the above functional GI disorders after flood.Relationship between abdominal pain and IBS with WaSH practices QOL and psychological morbidityRelationship between abdominal pain and IBS with QOL psychological co-morbidity and WaSH practices is shown in Table .

Among the three domains only poor water practices including poor qual- ity colour and taste of water supply during flood were significantly associated with vs. without abdominal pain 8.8 - 0.5 vs. 7.4 - 0.2 P  0.005.Among all flood victims included in the study the mean total score of SF-36 was 73.8 - 1.4 and the low- est scores were general health 64.0 - 1.3 and energy 70.1 - 1.3.

In contrast toabdominal pain those with vs. without IBS also reported lower scores for mental well-being 68.8 - 2.5 vs.77.1 - 1.4 P  0.007 and social functioning 71.9 - 3.5 vs. 83.0 - 1.9 P  0.007.The mean anxiety score of all flood victims in study was3.4 - 0.3 and their mean depression score was 3.6 - 0.2.

Hence our study postulated that SIBO may be increased following flood because of poor WaSH practices and we indeed showed the positive association between the two and in addition SIBO results in worse QOL although not abdominal pain or IBS.

Finally our study did not perform endoscopy or biopsy from participants with abdominal pain because of logistic issues.ConclusionThis study suggests that gut dysbiosis because of environ- mentally derived organisms following poor WaSH prac- tices may explain the persistent abdominal pain and IBS that developed after a major environmental disaster.

