for commercial re-use please contact doi 10.1093ofidofx243transmitted through a screened fmt donor although there has been a report of possible cytomegalovirus transmission in an fmt from a nonscreened donor .

tariq et al  had a similar experience inwhich approximately half of their accepted donor pool were excluded after passing screening with 1 donor becoming preg- nant 2 testing positive for shiga toxin in stool and 1 opted out of being a donor.it was found that 11 of our pds screened were eligible to be donors for fmts.

it would be very difficult to prevent these problems from occurring in the future because we have no control over the wide variety of factors thatfigure 1. potential donor screening outcomes using expanded donor screening methods.

alt alanine aminotransferase bmi body mass index ebv epstein-barr virus esbl extended spectrum b-lactamase.table 3. cost of screening a single donor for fecal transplantamay cause acute gastroenteritis and a donor's vacation plans.

if restrictions were placed on donors about where they couldtravel donor retention would likely suffer.ova cysts and parasites21.00138.84microscopy and culture13.50nabrotavirusnac97.94norovirusnac108.70adenovirusnac78.02clostridium difficile toxin gdh and toxin30100.09 vancomycin-resistant enterococcus2.63nabfecal giardia antigen10.8888.15fecal cryptosporidium antigen10.8886.10helicobacter pylorinac169.69kazerouni et al  estimated the cost of screening 1 donor for their public stool bank openbiome to be 885 usd per person.

furthermore a particular donor seemed to be especially effective in a study of fmt for ulcerative colitis  but whether the same donor's micro- biome would also be ideal for other indications is unknown.

the strengths of this study are that it shows 1 a minimum cost estimate for clinics thinking of using fmts and establishing their own pool of donors and 2 the difficulties that can be anticipated to establish and maintain a donor pool from a single center without significant funding.our data raise the concern regarding the feasibility of in- dividual centers establishing and maintaining fmt donor pools.

the need to exclude donors with an increased risk of these diseases has left uncertainties regarding the cost and feasibility of donor screening.

the total cost for finding a single suitable donor was 15 190 us dollars.

this study illustrates that screening many individuals to find a donor and the subsequent associated costs may make central processing and shipment a more reasonable alternative.keywords.

the need to exclude donors with evidence of these conditions or even evidence of being at increased risk of having a microbi- ome associated with these conditions such as having a family history of the disease because the microbiome can be similar among family members that live together  has left uncer- tainty regarding the cost and feasibility of donor screening.

recruitment took place from march 2015 to july 2016. the recruitment materials used listed a small number of the donor screening exclusion criteria including body mass index bmi 25 abnormal metabolic profile recent antibiotic use family history of diabetes or coronary disease and any known transmissible agent.

donor screening practices of our program are outlined in .

all laboratory test results were returned within 3 weeks' time and pds were asked to not engage in high-risk behavior after their screening took place.our donor screening methods were compared to 4 other programs which have published their full screening methods and acceptance rates to illustrate the inconsistencies in screen- ing pds .

the acceptance rates of these programs were contrasted with our own to determine what effect expanded screening programs had on overall donor enrollment .

