samples from the duodena of bypass patients show a marked difference in the gut microbiota between patients with diabetes and those without specifically fewer bacterial strains exist among obese individuals with t2d 21. the change in physiology after bariatric surgery may also promote a different composition in the gut microbiota but the microbiota alone may not be the primary driver of weight loss after bypass surgery.the gut microbiota inflammation and diabetesaccumulating evidence in animal models and in humans shows that obesity and t2d are associated with dysbiosis of the gut microbiota.

interestingly recent studies have found that the administration of metformin alters the compo- sition of the microbiota 97-99. in a study in which obesity was induced in mice by feeding a high-fat diet the authors found that metformin led to a greater abundance of the mucin-degrading bacterium akkermansia in the obese mice than in their obese counterparts not given metformin 98. a recent human study confirmed the effect of metformin on the gut microbiota 80. it is possible that an altered gut microbiota may be the cause of the drug's common side effect in the digestive system and the altered gut microbiota is also likely to influence the drug's antidiabetic efficacy.diet.

the number of specific bacteria found in the gut microbiota is influenced in part by the genetic makeup of the host in ways that affect host metabolism and ultimately can affect health 15. family members have been found to have more similar microbiota communities than unrelated individ- uals and the gut microbiota is more similar in monozygotic than in dizygotic twins 15. however there are currently no genome- wide studies that have characterized specific genes and pathways that determine the composition of the gut microbiome 60 although certain genes in the immune system are associated with inflammatory bowel disease 61 62.infections.

increasing evidence suggests that many nonanti- biotic drugs have an impact on the gut microbiota 77-79 including the drugs used to treat t2d 80. likewise the gut microbiota also affects the efficacy of drugs 81 82. antibiotics are commonly prescribed drugs that have saved millions of lives from infections antibiotics also have a profound effect on the normal gut microbiota.

yogurt and type 2 diabetes translating evidence into practicefactors influencing the gut microbiota inflammation and type 2 diabetesli wen1 and andrew duffy21section of endocrinology and 2department of surgery yale university school of medicine new haven ctabstractthe gut microbiota is a complex community of bacteria residing in the intestine.

j nutr 2017147suppl1468s-75s.keywords microbiota diet yogurt type 2 diabetes inflammation environmentintroductionthe gut microbiota is a complex community of bacteria residing in the intestine.

given that 80 of patients with t2d are overweight in the west and that obesity and t2d are charac- terized by an altered gut microbiota inflammation and gut barrier disruption it is conceivable that the microbiota may play a role in the development of these conditions 14 22.the immune system is ''educated'' and matured by commen- sal bacteria especially bacteria in the gut.

homeostasis of the gut microbiota is therefore important in modulation of the host immunity and control of inflammation 23. an altered gut microbiota influ- enced by different factors see ''factors that influence gut bacterial composition'' below can directly affect immune cells in the gut and indirectly affect immune cells via microbial products 24 25 including lps 18 20 26 27 metabolites and scfas 28-30 all of which can affect adipogenesis andor insulin resistance 31. lps is believed to cause low-grade inflammation mediated by the induction of inflammatory cyto- kines by immune cells and adipocytes and acetate or butyrate can modulate immune cell function.

in addition t2d is associated with increased bacterial expression of the genes involved in oxidative stress creating a proinflammatory signature in the intestinal micro- biome 36. a study cohort in european women showed that women with high glycated hemoglobin concentrations were characterized by an increase in lactobacillales mainly strepto- coccus species and a decrease in species belonging to bacteroids eubacterium and clostridium 37. although the metagenomic markers of microbiota in chinese and european cohorts are different it is clear that the gut microbiota closely correlates to t2d.

studies also showed that the presence of akkermansia muciniphila in the gut which constitutes 3-5 of the gut microbiota 22 inversely correlates with body weight in rodents and humans although the precise physiologic roles are not fully understood 14. it is also currently unclear where inflammatory processes are initi- ated but a significantly altered microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract could be one of the early events in the process 22.a study of nonobese and obese danish individuals showed that obesity insulin resistance fatty liver and low-grade inflammation increased c-reactive protein and leptin concentrations and decreased serum adiponectin concentrations were more prevalent in patients with low a diversity in the gut microbiome than they were in patients with high a diversity 38.all of these studies suggest a correlation between the compo- sition of the gut microbiome and disease.

although the gut microbiota affects viral and bacterial infections the reverse is also true 63-68. one study investigated the effect of an enteropathogenic infection with citrobacter rodentium on the microbiota of mice and found that certain bacterial groups in the gut are altered in response toc.

rodentium infection including a reduction in the relative abundance of lactobacillus 69. a human study of clostridium difficile patients and asymptomatic carriers with the use of 16s ribosomal rna gene pyrosequencing found that both had reduced microbial richness and diversity compared with healthy subjects 70. c. difficile infection is a typical result of severe dysbiosis in the gut microbiota 71 72. interestingly trans- plantation of the gut microbiome from healthy donors to infected patients increased microbial richness and diversity and it is currently applied clinically 73-76. these studies demon- strated that the characterization and diversity of the gut microbiota are altered with bacterial infections.

a recent study showed that antibiotics altered the host's gut microbiota without changing the metabolism of the hosts 91 92. other studies demonstrated that antibiotics reduce body weight and increase insulin sensitivity 93 94. berberine the main component of a chinese herb extract used to treat bacterial diarrhea also has an antidiabetic effect by modulating the gut microbiota and lowering glucose and insulin resistance 95 96. thus it is not clear whether antibiotics are to be blamed for the sharp rise in obesity especially childhood obesity.

it is also interesting that there were no major changes in the composition of the gut microbiota in the subjects in the 10-d trial period 117. however the consumption of yogurt that contained lactobacilli 6 3 107 - 2.4 3 108g yogurt in a japanese study showed a significant effect on alteration in the gut microbiota 120. fermented milk products such as yogurt deliver a large number of lactic acid bacteria to the gastrointes- tinal tract.

animal models have demonstrated that several factors contribute to and can significantly alter the composition of the gut microbiota including genetics the mode of delivery at birth the method of infant feeding the use of medications especially antibiotics and the diet.

