Conclusion Field asymmetric ion mobility spectrometry allowed for discrimination between faecal VOC profiles of de novo paediatric IBD patients and healthy controls confirming the potential of faecal VOC analysis as a non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for paediatric IBD.

The apparently high specificity of faecal VOCs compared to faecal calprotectin underlines the poten- tial of this method to serve as a complementary non- invasive technique in the diagnosis of paediatric IBD possibly limiting the number of endoscopies needed in a subset of children suspected for IBD.Conflict of interestNONEFinancial disclosureNONEGrand supportNONEDeclaration of funding interestNONEReferencesCuffari C 2009 C C Diagnostic considerations in pediatric inflammatory bowel disease management Gastroenterology  Hepatology 5 775-83Canavese G et al 2013 Inflammatory bowel disease a proposal to facilitate the achievement of an unequivocal diagnosis WorldJ.

The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of faecal VOC profiling as a non-invasive diagnostic biomarker for paediatric IBD.

Methods In this diagnostic accuracy study performed in two tertiary centres in the Netherlands faecal VOC profiles of 36 de novo treatment-naive paediatric IBD patients 23 CD 13 UC and 24 healthy matched controls were measured by field asymmetric ion mobility spectrometry Owlstone Ltd Lonestarr UK.

This emphasizes the need to develop new non- invasive cost-effective tests with high accuracy for diagnosing and monitoring disease activity of paedia- tric IBD.Current biomarkers in the diagnosis and follow- up of IBD disease activity include C-reactive protein CRP erythrocyte sedimentation rate ESR faecal calprotectin FC and lactoferrin but these bio- markers are characterized by relatively low specificity especially in children .

Furthermore faecal samples do not require specialized preparations or solutions prior to analysis.

In the present study we have aimed to measure faecal VOCs by FAIMS to discriminate paediatric IBD patients from healthy controls.Materials and methodsSubjectsBetween December 2013 and October 2015 we included all eligible children aged 4 to 17 years suspected for IBD in this two-centre study VU University Medical Centre and Academic Medical Centre both located in Amsterdam the Netherlands.

C-reactive protein CRP leucocytes and faecal calprotectin FC levels were determined at diagnosis.

An identical protocol was used for collection storage transport handling and VOC analysis of these faecal samples.

The study was approved by the University's Ethics Committee of both participating centres 2015.393.SamplesPaediatric patients undergoing diagnostic ileocolono- scopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy under suspi- cion of IBD were instructed to collect a faecal sample prior to bowel preparation.

