scfas have anti- inflammatory properties since they induce immune-regulatory t cells treg.22 a recent study showed that butyrate production from high- fibre diet inhibited the growth of lymphoma tumours and induced apoptosis of lymphoma tumour cells and significantly up-regulated histone 3 acetylation h3ac level and target genes such as fas p21 p27.23while we observed an association between faecal microbiota and multicentric lymphoma future studies are needed to evaluate whether these microbiota changes persist or improve with therapy or even whether the microbiota may have an effect on chemotherapy itself.24 furthermore even if microbiota changes may be a conse- quence of lymphoma it may seem prudent in the future to develop additional treatment strategies that would help in restoration of gut microbiota given our evolving understanding of the importance of normal microbiota composition on immune homeostasis.2526 for example probiotic formulations containing lactic acid bacteria have been shown to reduce the incidence of chemically mediated hepato- cellular carcinoma and colon cancer in rats.25 some studies report that administration of probiotics and prebiotics could be an important preventive factor for chemoprevention strategies.27there are limitations that need to be addressed.

this study was approved by the uni- versity of pisa institutional animal experimental use committee 00090692014. written informed consent was obtained from all owners of enrolled dogs.dogs with lymphoma all dogs were affected by malignant lym- phoma diffuse large b-cell lymphoma generalized lymphadenopathy anatomic form multicentric stage iii or iv who clinical staging for lymphoma without systemic signs.

the mosttable 1 signalment of the enrolled dogsabbreviations alp alkaline phosphatase alt alanine aminotransferase ast aspartate aminotransferase cpr c-reactive protein f female fs spayed female ldh lactate dehydrogenase m male mc castrated male.frequent alteration was an increase in ldh levels that is common in canine lymphoma and in cancer.17 dogs with lymphoma and control cases were fed with a variety of commercial diets.

the mean - stan- dard deviation age of dogs with lymphoma and control dogs was8.1 years -1.4 and 6.5 years -3.0 respectively p  .085. of the dogs with lymphoma 7 were males and 5 were females.

there was no signifi- cant difference between the genders between the 2 groups fisher's exact test p  .720. the mean - standard deviation body weightof dogs with lymphoma and control dogs were 24.5 kg - 13.4 and24.2 kg - 8.9 respectively p  0.955. sequencing analysisa total of 24 dna samples from dogs with lymphoma n  12 and healthy control dogs n  12 were available for the sequencing analy- sis.

was also signifi- cantly lower in dogs with lymphoma in the sequencing analysis figure 4. the dysbiosis index was significantly higher p  .0001 in dogs with lymphoma table 3 and figure 5.table 2 alpha diversity measureschao12084.67 390.86 1661.67 326.80 0.003observedspecies 792.08 71.88 700.5881.59 0.004shannon index 5.31 0.69 4.600.63 0.003sd standard deviation.figure 2 principal coordinates analysis of unweighted unifrac distances of 16s rrna gene.

analysis of similarity revealed clustering between dogs with lymphoma and healthy control dogsr  .33 p  .001 discussion the multivariate analysis based on 16s rrna gene sequencing and the multivariate analysis of qpcr data dysbiosis index provided a global overview of faecal microbial communities and both analysis showed that the microbiota differ between healthy control dogs and dogs with lymphoma.

this was also manifested on the genus level with decreases in genus ruminococcus and prevotella in lymphoma dogs although interestingly one unclassified ruminococcus was signif- icantly increased in dogs with lymphoma based on lefse.

in conclusion we showed significant differences in the faecal microbial communities of dogs presenting with multi-centric lymphoma compared with healthy dogs.orcid a. gavazzareferencesdorn cr taylor d schneider r. the epidemiology of canine leukemia and lymphoma.

email  introduction malignant lymphoma is the most common haematopoietic malignancy in dogs caused by clonal proliferation of lymphocytes in solid tissue with distinctive morphologic and immunophenotypic features.

canine lymphoma is the most common canine malignancy accounting for up to 24 of all reported neoplasms.

similarly to humans the majority of canine lymphoma 60-80 arises from malignant b cells.12the intestinal microbiota of dogs consists of bacteria fungi archaea viruses and protozoa.

such approaches have demonstrated that the canine and feline gastrointestinal gi tracts harbour a highly complex microbial ecosystem.1011 however little information is known about the microbiota composition in vari- ous canine neoplasia types.therefore the aim of this prospective and case-control study was to determine differences in faecal microbiota between healthy dogs and dogs with multi-centric lymphoma using 16s rrna gene analyses.

materials and methods  animals and samplingsfresh naturally voided faecal samples were collected from 12 dogs with lymphoma and 21 healthy dogs table 1 and were immediately stored at -80oc until analysis.

a complete blood count and serum biochemistry profiles were conducted both for dogs with lymphoma and for healthy control dogs.

