fmt might serve as a therapeutic to mitigate radiation-induced toxicity and improve the prognosis of tumour patients after radiotherapy.keywords faecal microbiota transplantation gastrointestinal toxicity gut microbiota radiation syndrome radiotherapysubject categories cancer digestive system microbiology virology  host pathogen interactiondoi 10.15252emmm.201606932  received 10 august 2016  revised 20january 2017  accepted 25 january 2017  published online 27 february 2017embo mol med 2017 9 448-461introductionradiation exposure in a mass casualty setting is a serious military and public health concern taniguchi et al 2014. exposure to a high dose of irradiation in a short time is associated with bone marrow toxicity haematopoietic syndrome and gastrointestinal gitoxicity gi syndrome which are collectively known as acute radia- tion syndrome ars kirsch et al 2010 leibowitz et al 2014. ars may facilitate an intractable pathologic process and even cause even- tual death lee et al 2014. in addition mounting clinical evidence has shown the bone marrow and small intestine epithelium to be the major sites of injury during radiation therapy owing to their higher sensitivity to ionizing radiation ciorba et al 2012. radiation- mediated toxicity especially radiation-induced gastrointestinal injury is a medical problem that urgently needs effective therapy.the gi tract has the unique property of harbouring numerous microbes within the lumen most of which are bacteria that have co-evolved with the host in a mutualistic relationship kamada et al 2013. recently investigations focusing on gut microbiota have experienced a renaissance and growing evidence supports a pivotal role of intestinal microbes as key regulatory elements in their host's physiologic and pathologic status ostaff et al 2013. for example intestinal microbes govern metabolic function and energy balance and flora disequilibrium is deemed to contribute to the development of numerous metabolic diseases amar et al 2011 nieuwdorp et al 2014. intestinal microbes are continuously shaping the development of their host's immune system directly modulating the innate and adaptive immune responses sommer  backhed 2013 barroso-batista et al 2015. epidemiological studies reveal that the intestinal microbiome engages in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease ibd with characteristic shifts in the composition of the intestinal microbiota reinforcing the view that ibd results from altered interactions between intestinal microbes and the mucosal immune system kostic et al 2014. germ-free mice and faecal transplant research demonstrate that changes in the microbiota are necessary and sufficient for both low-grade inflammation and metabolic syndrome chassaing et al 2015. moreover marked shifts in bacterial communities in the gut are inextricably intertwined with the development of diet-associated cancer schulz et al 2014 feng et al 2015 gorjifard  goldszmid 2015 suggesting that enteral bacteria might be used as diagnostic biomarkers for many cancers.

compositional and functional changes in commensal microbiota are thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of many diseases petrof  khoruts 2014 vanhoecke et al 2015. recently epidemiological and clini- cal studies on symbiotic microbiota have experienced a renaissancevasconcelos et al 2016. understanding how the enteric micro- biota affects health and disease requires a paradigm shift from focusing on individual pathogens to an ecological approach that considers the community as a whole lozupone et al 2012. these intestinal microbes boost biofilm formation by facilitating microbial co-aggregation and the production of biosurfactants and bacteri- ocins which selectively kill other microorganisms to maintain microbiota stability enhance gut barrier function through interact- ing with epithelia and modulate the host immune function borody  khoruts 2012. it is thus possible that pharmacological modification of the intestinal microbiome can be a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of many human diseases owyang  wu 2014. for example targeted restoration of the intestinal bacteria is beneficial in treating recalcitrant or recurring c. difficile infection lawley et al 2012. strategically fmt is the most direct and radi- cal way to alter the composition of a human's enteric microbiota to improve the quality of life in patients with inflammatory bowel disease moayyedi et al 2015 wei et al 2015 non-alcoholic fatty liver disease le roy et al 2013 metabolic syndrome vrieze et al 2012 and neuropsychiatric disorders xu et al 2015. thus far however whether fmt could be used as a therapeutic method to ameliorate radiation-induced toxicity remains unknown.

antibiotic treat- ment has been reported to be capable of shifting the intestinal bacte- rial communities in mice theriot et al 2014 brown et al 2016. accordingly mice were administered drinking water containing ampicillin or streptomycin for 6 weeks and then we performed 16s rrna sequencing analysis and obtained that enteric bacterial composition of antibiotic-fed mice abt mice was quite different from that of controls drinking water without antibiotics fig 1c and d however the gut microbiota of control mice did not change overtly during the 6 weeks appendix fig s1a and b. after 6.5 gy total body irradiation tbi our observations revealed that the survival rate of abt mice was significantly higher than that of controls indicating that changes in the intestinal bacterialcommunities are able to influence the radiosensitivity of both male and female mice fig 1e and f. a decrease in peripheral white blood cell wbc counts has been observed in irradiated animals deng et al 2015. although we observed that ampicillin and strep- tomycin conferred protection against sub-lethal irradiation these antibiotics did not heighten peripheral wbc counts appendix fig s1c and d indicating that antibiotics could not ameliorate radia- tion-induced haematopoietic syndrome.gavage of faecal microbiota protects against radiation-induced deathdivergent factors such as genetic predisposition diet and inflamma- tion states can differently affect enteric bacterial flora smith et al 2015 schaubeck et al 2016. therefore we compared the diversityof gut bacterial composition between male and female c57bl6 mice using 16s rrna sequencing before irradiation.

our observa- tion showed that the gavage of sex-matched faecal microbiota had distinguishable effects on immunity and metabolism marcobal et al 2013 bromberg et al 2015 suggesting that different sex- specific gut microbiota performs divergent physiologic status.

after 8 gy irradiation exposure the survival rate of mice treated with fmt combined with bmt was much higher than that of mice treated fmt or bmt alone figs 2i and ev1i suggesting that fmt combined with bmt might significantly mitigate irradiation-induced toxicity.fmt restores gi tract function and epithelial integrity after irradiationon the basis of the aforementioned observations we further untan- gled the impact of fmt on gi function and integrity in animals receiving faecal microbiota transferred from the same gender after irradiation exposure.

therefore our findings support the hypothesis that fmt might emerge as a potential therapeutic option for radiation- induced death.given that multiple factors such as age and genetics lozupone et al 2012 can drive gut microbiota alteration the use of fmt should follow guidelines.

radiotherapy is one of the most successful and widely used cancer therapies svensson et al 2006. to investigate whether fmt can be used to improve prognosis in tumour radio- therapy we further examined whether fmt accelerated tumour cell proliferation in vivo.

accordingly we performed sex-matched or mismatched fmt according to the following scheme female faecal microbiota transplants to male or female mice female  tbi male faecal microbiota transplants to male or female mice male  tbi and a mixture of faecal microbiota from male and female transplants to male or female mice femalemale  tbi the weight of male and female stool was 11 saline was used as a control saline  tbi.

given that lncrnas which have been primarily studied in the context of genomic imprinting cancer and cell differentiation arenow emerging as important regulators of immunity and metabo- lism cui et al 2015ab yao et al 2016 we analysed the related lncrna expression pattern in parallel.

lncrnas are able to interact with chromatin at several thousand different locations across multiple chromo- somes and govern large-scale gene expression programmes guttman  rinn 2012 vance  ponting 2014 and they have been regarded as pivotal modulators of physiologic or pathologic status ponting et al 2009. they also regulate gene expression profiles at the post-transcriptional level through influencing the stability of mrna gong  maquat 2011 kretz et al 2013. our findings now suggest that the gut microbe transplant-mediated lncrna expression profile fluctuations might play important roles in mitigating radiation-induced injury which warrants further study.in conclusion our work demonstrates that gavage of gut microbes alleviates and protects against radiation-induced injury in a mouse model.

for he stain- ing the sections were dipped in haematoxylin for 10 min and eosin for 3 min perez-garcia et al 2015. for ihc staining primary antibody of anti-f8 m0616 dako glostrup denmark was used koo et al 2009. small intestine tissues were fixed in methanol- carnoy 60 dry methanol 30 chloroform 10 glacial acetic acid solution overnight and 4-lm paraffin sections were processed to performed ab-pas and pas staining.

in addition the total amount of formed stool gathered from the cage of the saline-treated group was much lower than that of the fmt group figs 3b and c and ev2b and c. moreover fmt decreased the radiation-heightened fitc-dextran level in peripheral blood figs 3d and ev2d suggesting that fmt improves gi tract function and epithelial integrity in irra- diated animals.

as shown in fig 5a the gut bacterial composition profile substantially changed after radiation exposure at day 10 in male mice and was inhibited by gut microbial therapy figs 5b and ev4a and b. as expected irradiation exposure shaped the intestinal bacterial composition of female mice and microbial therapy altered the composition of faecal microbial flora in these animals figs 5c and d and ev4c and d. specifically irradiation exposure caused a down-regulation of the relative abundance of bacteroidetes or firmicutes at the phylum level in male mice or in female mice at day 10 but fmt reversed this down-regulation figs 5e-h and ev4e-h. together our observation demonstrates that gut micro- biota treatment preserves the gut bacterial composition in both male and female mice after exposure to radiation.fmt retains the gene expression profile of the small intestine after irradiationto further decipher the protective mechanism of fmt we performed gene ontology go analysis using small intestine tissues from saline and sex-matched fmt treatment groups.

notably comparing with fmt or bmt alone administration of fmt combined with bmt overtly increased the survival rate of mice after 8 gy irradiation exposure suggesting that bone marrow toxic- ity might be the main limiting factor for therapeutic effect of fmt.

given the changes in the microbiota vary with time we performed fmt to treat irradiated mice for 10 days and observed that fmt preserved the radiation-impaired enteric bacterial composition during these 10 days.

