the ndfb stores faeces samples of each donor faeces suspension that is used to guarantee traceability in case of unexpected side effects and collects data about long-term outcome.in conclusion a centralised stool bank optimises the safety of fmt and permits the infusion of donor faeces solutions to individual patients in local hospitals.e m terveer1 y h van beurden23 a goorhuis4 c j j mulder2 e j kuijper1 j j keller56 on behalf of the working group of the netherlands donor feces bank1department of medical microbiology leiden university medical center leiden the netherlands2department of medical microbiology and infectioncontrol vu university medical center amsterdam the netherlands3department of gastroenterology vu university medical center amsterdam the netherlands4department of internal medicine academic medical center amsterdam the netherlands5department of gastroenterology mc haaglanden thehague the netherlands6department of gastroenterology leiden university medical center leiden the netherlandscorrespondence to dr j j keller department of gastroenterology mc haaglanden lijnbaan 32 the hague 2512 va the netherlands j.keller haaglandenmc.nlacknowledgements the authors thank hw verspaget mp bauer cmje vandenbroucke-grauls and mgw dijkgraaf for insightful comments.collaborators other members of the working group of the netherlands donor feces bank hw verspaget mp bauer cmje vandenbroucke-grauls mgw dijkgraaf e van nood j seegers.contributors all authors contributed to the letter by writingreviewingediting the text.

 postscriptlettersfaecal microbiota transplantation in clinical practicedear sirwe would like to add some remarks to the report of a consensus meeting about faecal microbiota transplantation fmt by cammarota et al.already donor faeces banks exist at an institutional or national level in germany uk and the netherlands to support treatment of patients with recurrent clostridium difficile infection cdi.

the critical steps for safe and effective fmt are 1 patient selection 2 donor stool selection and screening and 3 biobanking of faeces suspensions.

however infusion of a donor faeces solu- tion through a nasoduodenal tube via col- onoscopy or by enema does not justify standard referral of patients with recur- rent cdi to a specialised centre.

whenever possible this should even be discouraged to prevent unnecessary secondary spread of c. difficile.second the consensus report mentions advantages of the use of frozen donor faeces.

unfortunately the authors do not mention one of its most important advan- tages which is the potential of storage until the donor has been retested prior to actual use of the donor faeces.

retesting precludes the possibility of missing newly acquired pathogens in donor faeces during the window phase between initial testing and donation.

with support of a national grant from zonmwthenon-profit'netherlands donor feces bank' ndfb  was founded to overcome the above problems and to ensure the availabil- ity of extensively screened donor faeces samples for patients that may benefit from fmt.

donor faeces is processed to ready-to-use faecal suspensions 200 ml and stored in a biobank.

per suspension 60 g of donor faeces is used because a previous systematic review suggested a decreased response rate with 50 g. only after retesting of the donor suspensions are sent out to physi- cians in hospitals throughout the netherlands for treatment of patients with recurrent or severe cdi.

before sending out the donor faeces suspensions the working group is consulted on the indica- tion and in specific patients on the mode of delivery.

in this way expert advice is ensured for each individual patient that is treated with donor faeces suspensions of the ndfb.

