finally 56 916 of the patients that received faecal microbiota transplant- ation and 42 512 of the patients under vancomycin treatment experienced a c. difficile relapse making the authors to conclude that a single-faecal microbiota trans- plantation is not significantly different from vancomycin treatment when patients with recurrent c. difficile infec- tion are confronted with a new c. difficile episode .not only randomized controlled trials but also various systematic reviews and meta-analyses covering faecal microbiota transplantation for recurrent c. difficile in- fection have also been published - with the most recent one published in 2016 gough et al.

the most recent cost esti- mation of c. difficile infection in the entire european union already dates back to 2006 kuijper et al.

regarding oceania a publication from 2016 estimated the occurrence of c. difficile infection in australia to account for approximately 12700 cases between 2011 and 2012 with a hospital- isation cost of approximately au 19000 per patient based on bond et al.

additional randomized controlled studies have been published -a brief discussion of the randomized controlled trials regarding c. difficile infec- tion treatment via faecal microbiota transplantation that followed van nood et al.

difficile relapse when they received lyophilized faeces and 2024 patients were considered cured when they re- ceived frozen faeces  these observations might seem to be in conflict with the observations of lee et al.

2015 performed an open-label ran- domized controlled trial to compare the effect of faeces transplantation via colonoscopy consisting of vanco- mycin treatment 125 mg 4 timesday bowel lavage at day 1-2 and subsequent faeces transplantation versus vancomycin treatment 10 days of 125 mg 4 timesday and a subsequent pulse-treatment with 125-500 mgday during at least 3 weeks every 2-3 days in a patient population 39 patients were randomized over the treat- ments with recurring c. difficile infection hence more or less resembling the study of van nood et al.

difficile infection iii treatment effectiveness is highly depend on for example the route of administration and the pre-treatment the patient receives prior to faeces transplantation and iv identified several limitations for example the lack of uniformity across the studies for example definitions the lack of standardisation for example pre-transplantation treatment heterogen- eity across patients potential publication bias and the need of randomized controlled trials comparable sofi et al.

nevertheless they conclude that faecal microbiota transplantation is an effective and safe treatment for c. difficile infection .in the systematic review performed by guo et al.

the authors also demonstrate a cure rate above 90 and do also conclude that faecal microbiota transplantation is a promising treatment for c. difficile infection and do also address the need for randomized controlled trials o'horo et al.

they also conclude that faecal microbiota transplantation has a place in the treatment of c. difficile infection but several unmet needs needed to be addressed to obtain additional evidence es- pecially the need of additional clinical trialsrandomized controlled trials .bagdasarian et al.

however given the acute character and the undeniable mortality rates the apparent therapeutic su- periority of faecal microbiota transplantation compared to standard antibiotic therapy and the persistent suffer- ing of the patient affected by c. difficile hindering pa- tients access to the faecal microbiota transplantation treatment can be considered as inhumane.alternative legislation has been proposed by sachs et al.

2017125e0176797.slimings c armstrong p beckingham wd bull al hall l kennedy kj et al.

characterised with a mortality up to 40 influenced by strain and host clinical status c. difficile infection was estimated to be accountable for approximately 500000 correspondence drug quality and registration druquar group faculty of pharmaceutical sciences ghent university ottergemsesteenweg 460 b-9000 ghent belgiuminfections and nearly 30000 deaths in the usa in 2011 1. c. difficile infection is associated with significant fi- nancial consequences as well in the usa -.

the occurrence of c. difficile infections in canada are considered to be similar to the infection rates in the usa with an estimated annual infection rate of approximately 37900 cases in 2012 and accounting for a financial burden of cad 280 million  in the european union 200000 individuals are estimated to be infected annu- ally based on the incidence of c. difficile in the united kingdom in 2011-2012 .

2017 investigated the effectiveness of vanco- mycin treatment versus faecal microbiota transplantation for recurrent c. difficile infection at least 2 laboratory confirmed episodes of c. difficile infection and prior vancomycin treatment during these bouts.

