e-mail editorial decision 3 october 2017 accepted 3 november 2017abstractbackground faecal microbiota transplantation fmt as a potential treat- ment for inflammatory bowel disease ibd is an area of active current research having been stimulated by the remarkable efficacy of fmt in treatment of clostridium difficile-associated colitis.sources of data this review is based on data from numerous case series on fmt in ibd since 1989 and results of four rcts in ulcerative colitis uc three fully published.areas of agreement early signals of short to medium-term efficacy of fmt for uc are promisingareas of controversy methodology underlying mechanisms and questions regarding safety of fmt remain controversial.growing points many trials of fmt in adults and children are currently recruiting.areas timely for developing research future trials of fmt will likely revisit crohn's disease and patients undergoing pouch surgery.

the accepted current paradigm to explain the pathogenesis of ibd entails abnormal sensing of the microbiota by the epithelium in genetically suscep- tible individuals resulting in activation of both innate and adaptive immune pathways which causes dam- age to the epithelial barrier.much information has been garnered concerning the gut microbiome in ibd since the first publica- tion outlining microbiome dysbiosis in ibd as part of the nih metahit metagenomics project in 2010.in this it was shown that patients with ibd generally have lower bacterial diversity compared to healthy individuals and that the microbiota in patients with cd and uc segregated from that of healthy individuals.

124introductioninflammatory bowel disease ibd largely comprises crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.this chronic affliction of the bowel usually runs a relapsing remitting course and tends to occur in the second or third decade of life affecting people of working and reproductive age.

quraishi et al.

in an import- ant inception cohort study precluding the effects of powerful immune-suppressant drugs gevers et al.

quraishi et al.

in 2012 angelberger et al.

in the study conducted by vermeire et al.

moayyedi et al.

diagnosed within a year of treatment were more likely to respond.rossen et al.

quraishi et al.

quraishi et al.

indeed in a recent study combining careful culture with high-throughput sequencing browne et al.

best pract res clin gastroenterol 2014 28363-72.marchesi jr adams dh fava f et al.

front microbiol 201671031.de filippo c cavalieri d di paola m et al.

