m. chu j. ma a. l. prince k. m. antony m. d. seferovic and k. m. aagaard maturation of the infant microbiome community structure and function across multiple body sites and in relation to mode of delivery nat med vol.

finally the mother consumed the probiotic lgg and we detected lgg-like transcripts in the infant transcriptome indicating that lgg has been transferred is an active mem- ber at the earliest time point and is decreasing in abundance and activity during weaning showing that lgg is not likely to remain a permanent member of the intestinal microbiota.the here described approach and pipeline allow for further longitudinal analysis of infant activity to complement infant cohort metagenome studies that are presently developing.disclosurethe abstract of this paper was presented before on the darmendag gutflora day 2015 in rotterdam netherlands.conflicts of interestthe authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest.authors' contributionslotta nylund reetta satokari and willem m. de vos designed the study and lotta nylund carried out the rna extractions and preparation of the sequencing.

the study indicates that metatranscriptome analysis of the infant gut microbiota is feasible on infant stool samples and can be used to provide insight into the core activities of the developing community.backgroundafter birth newborns are rapidly colonized by intestinal microbiota originating from the surrounding environment including maternal faecal microbes and vaginal or skin spe- cies depending on the mode of delivery it is generally assumed that the first colonizers of the infant intestine are facultative anaerobes such as streptococcus enterococcus and lactobacillus spp.

c. g. m. booijink j. boekhorst e. g. zoetendal h. smidt m. kleerebezem and w. m. de vos metatranscriptome analysis of the human fecal microbiota reveals subject-specific expression profiles with genes encoding proteins involved in carbohydrate metabolism being dominantly expressed applied and environ- mental microbiology vol.

k. buddington c. h. williams b. m. kostek k. k. budding- ton and m. j. kullen maternal-to-infant transmission of pro- biotics concept validation in mice rats and pigs neonatology vol.

t2 t and t2 m. after quality filtering a total number of0.590.49c0.59approximately 2.5 million reads were obtained in all samples however when analysing these it was observed that reads derived from rrna were dominating in samples where in vitro rrna removal was not applied in silico filtering of rrna sequences by means of matching to 5s 16s and 23s rrna gene databases removed about 99 of readsfigure 1 a numbers of reads at different stages of in silico filtering.

this analysis confirmed the expression of lgg- like genes including these present in variable regions present in lgg but absent in many other l. rhamnosus strains comparative analysis revealed significantly more lgg-like genes  of total mrna reads in sample t1 when compared to samples t2 and t3 6. the same result was seenb9 folateb6b7b12bifidobacterium collinsella blautiacollinsella blautialachnoclostridiumblautiana-lachnospiraceaeveillonellanana-clostridialesb9b6b7b12expression level55671529figure 4 relative taxonomic profiles based on the final enzyme for the corresponding vitamin metabolism of sample t2 m. kegg numbers for the final step in the corresponding vitamin pathways for this figure are k00287 b9 folate k00868 b6 k01012 b7 biotin k02233b12.table 3 overview of the expressed pts and abc transport modules involved in sugar transport in sample t2 m.values and adjusted values indicate the likelihood of a kegg module to be enriched on a background of amongst all detected kegg orthologs.pts transporter modulesnumber ofmodule number valueadjusted valuenumber of proteins intran- scribed proteins-genesdescriptionabc sugar transporter modulesnumber ofmodule number valueadjusted valuenumber of proteins intran- scribed protein-genesdescriptioncellobiose transport system10090807060504030taxonomic groups expressing glycosylases0.0050.0040.0030.0020.001relative number of rrna reads mapping to lgg 16s200.000t110t2tt2mt3a0t2mna0.0050.004relative number of mrna reads mapping to lgg geneserysipelatoclostridium nafirmicutes tyzzerellaroseburia lachnoclostridium blautia naactinobacteria collinsella bifidobacteriumfigure 5 taxonomic profiles based on expression of the glycosy- lases genes in sample t2 m.when mapping rrna reads from faecal samples to lgg 16s0.0030.0020.0010.000t1t2tt2mt3brrna sequence at 97 similarity.

bifidobacterium and to a lesser extent bacteroides are considered the predominant bacterial genera colonizing the early infant gut when the infant is breastfed as these bacteria have the rather unique capacity to degrade human milk oligosaccharides 10. introduction of solid foods significantly alters the gut microbiota switch- ing the microbial composition to be more dominated by bacteroides and clostridium spp.

these glycosidase genes had been previously found to beof bifidobacterial -galactosidase while the infant receivedpresent before the introduction of solid food while acti-exclusively breast-milk t1 whereas unidentified firmicutes were the main producer of this enzyme at t3 when the infant diet included also a variety of solid foods and dairy products 3. transcripts derived from bacteroidetes were hardly found in the dataset.

hindawiinternational journal of microbiology volume 2017 article id 9547063 9 pages research articlefeasibility of metatranscriptome analysis frominfant gut microbiota adaptation to solid foods results in increased activity of firmicutes at six monthsfloor hugenholtz1 jarmo ritari2 lotta nylund3 mark davids4 reetta satokari235 and willem m. de vos1251 laboratory of microbiology wageningen university dreijenplein 10 6703 hb wageningen netherlands2department of basic veterinary medicine university of helsinki helsinki finland3functional foods forum university of turku turku finland4laboratory of systems and synthetic biology wageningen university dreijenplein 10 6703 hb wageningen netherlands5rpu immunobiology department of bacteriology and immunology university of helsinki helsinki finlandcorrespondence should be addressed to willem m. de vos received 12 april 2017 revised 17 june 2017 accepted 4 july 2017 published 24 august 2017academic editor barbara h. iglewskicopyright c 2017 floor hugenholtz et al.

asnicar s. manara m. zolfo d. t. truong m. scholz andf.

succession of microbial consortia in the developing infant gut microbiome proceedings of the national academy of sciences of the united states of america vol.

bacteroides in the infant gut consume milk oligosaccharides via mucus- utilization pathways cell host and microbe vol.

multilocus sequence typing of bifidobacterial strains from infant's faeces and human milk are bifidobacteria being sustainably shared during breast- feeding beneficial microbes vol.

f. favier e. e. vaughan w. m. de vos and a. d. akkermans molecular monitoring of succession of bacterial communities in human neonates appl environ microbiol vol.

