p  0.01 versus normal control group p  0.01 versus diabetic group p  0.01 versus liraglutide 0.2 group.ogtt oral glucose tolerance test homa-ir homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance il6 interleukin 6 auc area under the curve.effect of liraglutide on fasting insulin homa-ir and serum il-6 in diabetic male ratsdiabetic male rats exhibited significantly higher serum insulin level homa-ir and il-6 than normal control rats p  0.01 figure 1e to g. liraglutide significantly decreased serum insulin level homa-ir and il-6 p  0.01 figure 1e to g.characteristics of pyrosequencing resultsbecause liraglutide 0.4 group had better glucose reduction effect on the diabetic male rats than liraglutide 0.2 group only genomic dna of fecal samples from liraglutide 0.4 group diabetic group and normal group were tested in 16s pyrophosphate sequencing n 14 6 in each group.

the founding sponsors had no role in the design of the study in the collection analyses or interpretation of data in the writing of the manuscript and in the decision to publish the results.fundingthis work was supported by national key research and development program of china 2016yfa0101002 national natural science foundation of china 81170736 81570715 national natural science foundation for young scholars of china 81300649 china scholarship council foundation 201308110443 pumc youth fund 33320140022 chinadiabetes young scientific talent research funding diabetesresearch fund from clinical research of chinese medical association and chinese diabetes society 12030500350 fundamental research funds for the central universities and the scientific activities foundation for selected returned overseas professional of human resources and social security ministry.referencesqin j li y cai z li s zhu j zhang f liang s zhang w guan y shen d peng y zhang d jie z wu w qin y xue w li j han l lu d wu p dai y sun x li z tang a zhong s li x chen w xu r wang m feng q gong m yu j zhang y zhang m hansen t sanchez g raes j falony g okuda s almeida m lechatelier e renault p pons n batto jm zhang z chen h yang r zheng w li s yang h wang j ehrlich sd nielsen r pedersen o kristiansen k wang j. a metagenome-wide association study of gut microbiota in type 2 diabetes.

all data analyses were conducted by using prism version 5.0 for windows graphpad software san diego ca usa.resultseffect of liraglutide on body weight in diabetic male ratscompared to the normal control rats the diabetic male rats had reduced body weight p  0.01 figure 1a.liraglutide treatment increased the body weight in the dia- betic male rats slightly about 3 p  0.01 figure 1a.effect of liraglutide on fbg and glucose tolerance in diabetic male ratsdiabetic male rats showed dramatically higher fbg than the normal control rats p  0.01 figure 1b.

to sum up our findings propose that the prevention of diabetes by liraglutide in the diabetic male rats may be associated with the structural change of the gut microbiota inflammation alleviation and abundantly elevated scfa-producing bacteria in the intestine.keywords diabetes gut microbiota glucagon-like peptide 1 short chain fatty acid probiotic bacteriaexperimental biology and medicine 2018 243 34-44. doi 10.11771535370217743765introductionthe prevalence of type 2 diabetes t2d is extended dramatically during recent decades.

liraglutide-treated groupfigure 3. pcoa plots based on unweighted unifrac metrics of the gut micro- biota.pc principle coordinate.figure 2. effects of liraglutide on alpha diversity analysis of gut microbiota in diabetic male rats.

in another study there was a reduction in the abundance of ruminococcaceae in a bitter melon formulation-treated male rats could reduce fbg com- pared to the diabetic rats.40in conclusion our findings suggest that significant changes in gut microbiota are associated with liraglutide treatment on the diabetic male rats including enrichment of scfa producers and probiotic bacteria.

bioinformatics 2011272957-63caporaso jg kuczynski j stombaugh j bittinger k bushman fd costello ek fierer n pena ag goodrich jk gordon ji huttley ga kelley st knights d koenig je ley re lozupone ca mcdonald d muegge bd pirrung m reeder j sevinsky jr turnbaugh pj walters wa widmann j yatsunenko t zaneveld j knight r. qiime allows analysis of high-throughput community sequencing data.

therefore we used 454 pyrosequencing to test the change of gut microbiota from liraglutide treatment.materials and methodsanimalsfive-week-old male sprague-dawley rats 174.7 - 15.3 g were bought from the institute of laboratory animal science chinese academy of medical sciences and peking union medical college beijing china permit no.

the alpha diversities of the gut microbiota in these three groups decreased significantly in the order of the normal group diabetic group and liraglu- tide 0.4 group figure 2. the results of pcoa based on an unweighted unifrac distance matrix showed that there was a substantial rearrangement of the bacterial structure among the normal diabetic and liraglutide-treated male rats figure 3.taxonomic shifts due to liraglutide treatmentwe explored the similarities and distinctions of species dis- tribution among the different groups.

in ogtt blood glucose and auc in the dia- betic male rats were also higher than the normal control rats p  0.01 figure 1c and d. liraglutide prevented the increase of blood glucose and auc in a dose-dependent way p  0.01 figure 1c and d.figure 1. effects of liraglutide on body weight blood glucose serum insulin homa-ir and il-6 in diabetic male rats.

found lower alpha diversity within the phylum bacteroidetes in both the colon and feces of high-fat-diet-fed mice.16 second by using unweighted unifrac pca analysis we confirmed that the gut microbiota of the normal diabetic and liraglutide-treated male rats were structurally separated from each other in the two principal components.furthermore our result presented that compared with the normal rats diabetic rats had increased firmicutes-to- bacteroidetes ratio in the fecal microbiota.

pyrosequencing of the v3-v4 region of 16s rrna genes manifested a remarkable transfer of gut microbiota construction in liraglutide-treated male rats compared with that of the diabetic male rats.

a color version of this figure is available in the online journal.table 1. unique otu in liraglutide 0.4 group.bacteriakingdombacteroidalesordermollicutesrf9orderbacteroidaless24-7groupfamilyclostridialesvadinbb60groupfamilyporphyromonadaceaefamilyruminococcaceaefamilyalistipesgenusbifidobacteriumgenuscellulosilyticumgenuschristensenellaceaer-7groupgenusdesulfovibriogenusenterorhabdusgenusgardnerellagenuslachnospiraceaeucg-010genusoxalobactergenusparabacteroidesgenuspeptoniphilusgenussneathiagenussphingomonasgenusanaerofustisstercorihominisspeciesbrevundimonasvesicularisspecieslactobacillusmucosaespeciesmoraxellaosloensisspeciesotu operational taxonomic unit.had a reduced firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio and relative abundance of tenericutes p  0.01 figure 5.lefse analysis showed multiple differences at lower taxonomic levels among the three groups figure 6. fifty-eight bacteria changed significantly among the normal diabetic and liraglutide 0.4 group p  0.05. among these bacteria 11 bacteria showed a statistical difference between the liraglutide 0.4 group and diabetic group p  0.05. the genera flavonifractor p  0.05 genera lachnoclostridium p  0.01 species ruminococcusgnavus p  0.05 species flavonifractorplautii p  0.05 and species bacteroidesacidifaciens p  0.05 were elevated sig- nificantly in liraglutide-treated group than the diabetic group.

however the effect of liraglutide on the community of gut microbiota is still unknown.

besides these functions it also exerts neuroprotective cardioprotective and anti-inflammatory effects.5however the study of liraglutide on gut microbiota in diabetic rats is limited.

