francisco portela and carlos sofia analyzed the data and revised the manuscript.still unknown 2. the standard antibiotic therapy is fre- quently ineffective in recurrent cdi in ibd patients 5. fecal microbiota transplantation fmt can be an alterna- tive treatment likely due to the restoration of a disrupted microbiome thereby breaking the cycle of recurrent cdi 135. recent studies showed a high efficacy and safety in recurrent or refractory cdi 5. nevertheless very few data about this procedure in recurrent cdi and concomi- tant ibd patients have been reported 6.we report a case of a patient with ulcerative pancoli- tis and three clostridium difficile recurrences treated with fmt.

109 n.o 6fecal microbiota transplantation in recurrent clostridium difficile infection in a patient475with concomitant inflammatory bowel diseaseorder to cure a specific pathology related to gastrointestinal dysbiosis 38. it can be considered as a form of organ transplantation of more than 1000 microbial species but it is simpler to perform than other organ transplants as no immunologic donorrecipient matching or post-procedure immunosuppression is required 1-3.since the first report of fmt use in recurrent cdi in 1958 a review of case series and a single-randomized con- trol trial have shown its effectiveness compared to standard antibiotic treatment with a cure rate of nearly 90 134. increasing research with regards to the microbiome in cdi revealed that fmt can resolve the dysbiosis by restoring phylogenetic diversity of gut microbiota and breaking the cycle of recurrent cdi 158.to date no standardized protocol for microbiota trans- plantation exists 15. several routes of fmt instilla- tion were suggested although the best strategy remains unclear 35 and from our perspective it should be determined on a case by case basis.

fmt has emerged as a potential therapy 27 but effectiveness safety and potential adverse related-fmt events are not well understood 59. the very few case series about fmt use for superimposed cdi in ibd have shown the efficacy of fmt in cdi resolution and relapse prevention with few adverse effects and without infection complications 6. although some reports postulate that the coexistence with ibd may require repeated fmt to ensure successful cdi eradication 9 fmt seems to be an untargeted approach to modify the underlying dysbiosis present in ibd 17.in relation to ibd treatment the first cases of fmt transient success date back to 1989 5. recent random- ized controlled trials and a meta-analysis demonstrated a variable efficacy of fmt in ibd especially for ulcerative colitis 7910. the risk of ibd reactivation is still another worry since a case of transient flare-up of ulcerative colitis after fmt has been reported 11.in our case we performed a fmt to treat the third cdi recurrence and prevent new relapses in an ibd patient through a lower route combining colonoscopy and enema.

after a twelve month follow-up the patient remains asymptomatic without clostridium difficile infection relapses or inflammatory bowel disease flare-ups.fecal microbiota transplantation is relatively simple to perform well-tolerated safe and effective in recurrent clostridium difficile infection with ulcerative pancolitis as an alternative in case of antibiotic therapy failure.key words recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

coimbra portugalabstractthe use of fecal microbiota transplantation in recurrent clostridium difficile infection and coexistent inflammatory bowel disease remains unclear.a 61-year-old man with ulcerative pancolitis was diagnosed with a third recurrence of clostridium difficile infection previously treated with metronidazole vancomycin and fidaxomicin.

the fmt was performed after antibiotic therapy.another area of fmt use is the treatment of cdi coin- fection in immunocompromised patients 5. this group of patients including ibd patients has an increased risk of cdi and associated complications and this condition should be ruled out in all ibd hospitalized patients witha disease flare-up 2458. regarding colonic ibd the higher incidence of cdi was found in patients with left sided and extensive disease compared to distal disease 2. for patients with cdi and ibd the classic antibiotic thera- pies are recognized as ineffective and there are no data for fidaxomicin.

473-476fecal microbiota transplantation in recurrent clostridium difficile infection in a patient with concomitant inflammatory bowel diseasemarta gravito-soares1 elisa gravito-soares1 francisco portela12 manuela ferreira12 and carlos sofia121gastroenterology department.

3000-075 coimbra portugale-mail gravito-soares m gravito-soares e portela f ferreira m sofia c. fecal microbiota transplantation in recurrent clostridium difficile infection in a patient with concomitant inflammatory bowel disease.

gastroenterol 2015149102-9. doi 10.1053j.gastro.2015.04.001de leon l watson j kelly c. transient flare of ulcerative colitis after fecal microbiota transplantation for recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

although there are con- troversial results in the literature to date after 18 months of follow-up our patient is well with no cdi relapses or ibd flares and no adverse fmt-related events.fecal microbiota transplantation is relatively simple to perform well-tolerated safe and effective in recurrent cdi with ulcerative pancolitis as an alternative in cases of prior antibiotic treatment failure.

recurrent clostridium difficile infections the importance of the intestinal microbiota.

in this condition the prognosis is worse as it has higher rates of mortality colectomy and recurrence 34. the role of clostridium difficile in ibd pathogenesis as a cause or consequence isauthor's contributions marta gravito-soares and elisa gravito-soares designed the report collected the patient data performed the fecal micro- biota transplantation and wrote the paper.

infectious colitis.introductionclostridium difficile infection cdi is the leading cause of nosocomial and antibiotic-associated diarrhea 1-3. recurrent infections are common even after multiple effective antibiotic therapies 1. in inflammatory bowel disease ibd the risk of developing cdi increases due to immunosuppressive therapy recurrent hospitalizations pancolitis nutritional and immunologic status intestinal dysbiosis and genetic susceptibility.

fecal microbiota transplant for treatment of clostridium difficile infection in immunocompromised patients.

the response was excellent resulting in no relapse either of cdi or ibd during 18 months of follow-up.case reportwe report the case of a 61-year-old caucasian male with ulcerative proctitis under topic 5-aminosalicylic acid therapy and a 40 pack-year smoking history and no fam- ily history of ibd.

