pc1 12.67 mecfs  ibs vs. control p  0.05 mecfs without ibs vs. control p  0.001 however only me cfs without ibs showed separation along pc2 pc2 10.69 mecfs without ibs vs. control p  0.030. while controls had significantly lower within-group dis- similarity compared to within-group dissimilarities of both the mecfs without ibs and mecfs  ibs me cfs  ibs had the highest within-group dissimilarity fig.

c bar chart showing the mean bc dissimilarity within control subjects within mecfs without ibs and within mecfs with ibs subjects as well as between control vs. mecfs without ibs between control vs. mecfs with ibs and between mecfs without ibs vs. mecfs with ibs subjects.

additional file table s1a and additional file table s2a.evidence from tda that ibs was linked to differences in disease severity microbiota and immune profiles led us to stratify the patient cohort into mecfs  ibs and mecfs without ibs and test for group-specific differ- ences in the microbiota using linear statistical models.in comparisons of the mecfs  ibs and control groups lefse identified 12 bacterial species genera or families enriched in the mecfs  ibs and 26 bacterial taxa enriched in the controls fig.

unique to total mecfs gemella unclassified 1 streptococcus peroris 12 eubacterium rectale 23 and ruminococcus torques 34. unique to mecfs without ibs bacteroides caccae 2 bacteroides ovatus 6 bacteroides vulgatus 4 lactobacillus gasseri 5 streptococcus infantis 6 solobacterium moorei 7 pseudomonas aeruginosa 8 andeggerthella lenta 46. unique to mecfs  ibs butyrivibrio unclassified 42 coprococcus comes 43 roseburia intestinalis 44 and desulfovibrio desulfuricans 45. overlapping between all three comparisons total mecfs mecfs without ibs and mecfs  ibs groups vs. control alistipes unclassified 9 clostridium asparagiforme 10 clostridium bolteae 11 eubacterium ventriosum 13 coprococcus catus 14 dorea formicigenerans 15 dorea longicatena 16 marvinbryantia formatexigens 17 roseburia inulinivorans 18 ruminococcus gnavus 19 subdoligranulum variabile 20and coprobacillus bacterium 21. overlapping between total mecfs and mecfs  ibs groups compared to controls alistipes putredinis 22 eubacterium hallii 24 anaerostipes caccae 25 faecalibacterium cf.

compari- son between mecfs without ibs vs. mecfs with ibs showed higher dissimilarity than control vs. mecfs without ibs but similar dissimilarity as between control vs. mecfs with ibs.

the decreased relative abundance of bacteroides vulgatus distinguished the mecfs without ibs group from the mecfs  ibs group based on all statistical tests tda lefse nonparametric and reduction model tests.mecfs patients with ibs were distinguished from mecfs patients without ibs by the relative abundance of eleven bacterial species roc auc  0.956 cross- validated auc  0.604.distinct bacterial metabolic pathways in mecfsbacterial metagenomic data were used to predict differ- ences in functional metabolic pathways in the mecfs subgroups.

although the clusters did distinguish a range of cytokine profiles in individuals ranging from high to low cytokine profiles there was no distinct clus- tering observed between disease groups additional file figure s2.a predictive logistic regression model restricted solely to immune data showed little accuracy in distinguishing between the mecfs diagnostic groups and controls total mecfs mecfs  ibs or mecfs without ibs vs. controls data not shown.table 2 predictive selection model defined different bacterial composition in mecfs diagnostic groupstable 2 predictive selection model defined different bacterial composition in mecfs diagnostic groups continuedfirmicutes ruminococcus lactarisfirmicutes eubacterium halliifirmicutes anaerotruncus colihominisfirmicutes faecalibacterium cffirmicutes clostridium methylpentosumbacteroidetes bacteroides vulgatus0.9560.60441.5127.3262.80bacteroidetes prevotella buccalisfirmicutes ruminococcus lactarisfirmicutes eubacterium halliifirmicutes anaerotruncus colihominisfirmicutes faecalibacterium cffirmicutes clostridium methylpentosumfirmicutes faecalibacterium prausnitziiproteobacteria klebsiella pneumoniaebacteroidetes parabacteroides distasonisbacteroidetes prevotella coprithe arrows represent the increased or decreased relative abundance of bacterial species in total mecfs mecfs  ibs mecfs wo ibs compared to controls.

thus if bacterial metabolic pathways con- tribute to these observed host metabolite changes such changes could be restricted to the ibs subgroup.enriched pathways for the degradation of atrazine in mecfs were also found in our analyses and may be in- dependent of ibs as the predicted pathway of atrazine degradation was a biomarker of both mecfs without ibs and mecfs  ibs.

comparisons involving the mecfs  ibs subgroup vs. controls and vs. mecfs without ibs showed stronger associations with bacterial taxa and meta- bolic pathways than any of the other comparisons.four networks defined by ibs co-morbidity and bmi add- itional file  figure s1 additional file table s1b were asso- ciated with a distinct metagenomic and immune profile.mecfs and mecfs subgroups are associated with an altered microbial compositioncompositional taxonomic analysis based on metage- nomic sequencing indicated that the two dominant phyla in both mecfs and control individuals were bacteroidetes 64.9 and 63.4 respectively and firmi- cutes 26.6 and 29.7 respectively fig.

thus there was as much dissimi- larity between the two subgroups of mecfs defined by ibs co-morbidity as between control and mecfs with ibs and even greater dissimilarity between the subgroups of ibs.

together these results suggest that the mecfs subjects have greater variation between their microbiota than the control subjects and that mecfs subjects with ibs have the greatest within group variation.proportional venn and circular visualization diagrams were used to display the overlapping and differentiating bacterial taxa between the controls and each of the me cfs groups total mecfs mecfs  ibs and me cfs without ibs fig.

the number of species identified was similar in mecfs patients and controls average number of bac- terial species - the standard error of the mean mecfs74.24 - 1.67 control 77.5 - 2.07. we also did not find differences in the number of bacterial species when comparing subgroups based on ibs status average num- ber of bacterial species - the standard error of the mean mecfs  ibs 71.62 - 2.26 mecfs without ibs 76.14- 2.34 control 77.5 - 2.07.abcdefig.

the mecfs patients without ibs had a pre-adjustment trend toward increased tnf-a compared to controls.unsupervised hierarchical clustering was used to visualize the variation in plasma cytokine levels between the total mecfs mecfs  ibs mecfs without ibs and controls.

indeed there is symptom overlap between ibs and other functional somatic syndromes including mecfs and fibromyalgia syn- drome ibs patients also have higher scores on the fatigue impact scale than healthy individuals 9.tda analysis revealed that ibs co-morbidity was a major driver of topological networks in our mecfs co- hort.

these results suggest that as with bacterial taxa some bacterial metabolic pathways may be uniquely altered in mecfs while others may be linked to ibs co-morbidity.enrichment in the pathway for vitamin b6 biosynthesis and salvage was the strongest predictor of mecfs as well as mecfs without ibs suggesting that this association is independent of ibs.

