journal of infection 2017 74 s120--s127fecal microbiota transplantation for recurrentclostridium difficile infection in childrenbecky chen a vishal avinashi a simon dobson ba division of gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition british columbia children's hospital vancouver bc canadab division of infectious diseases british columbia children's hospital vancouver bc canadaavailable online 23 june 2017summary fecal microbiota transplantation fmt is a relatively simple promising treatment for recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

this article will provide an overview of c. difficile infection along with review of the rationale methods and complications of fmt including the current experience of fmt in children.c 2017 the british infection association.

published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.backgroundepidemiology of clostridium difficile infectionclostridium difficile infection cdi is a significant gastro- intestinal illness in both adults and children as it is the main cause of nosocomial diarrhea in the developed world.1 the costs are high with annual estimated costs in 2002 of us 1.3 billion or 12825 per hospitalization.2 cdi is associated with increased risk of death colectomy rates and increased length of hospital stay together with higher hospital costs.3while those affected by c. difficile usually have typical risk factors such as having hospital exposure and priorantibiotic use children without comorbidities acquiring the infection in community settings have been described.

am j gastroenterol 201410971065-71.b s. fecal transplant for pediatric patients who have recur- rent c-diff infection fmt 2016. httpsclinicaltrials.gov ct2shownct02134392termrecurrentclostridiumdifficilefecaltransplantchildrenrank3.hamilton mj weingarden ar sadowsky mj khoruts a. standardized frozen preparation for transplantation of fecal microbiota for recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

infection 2012406643-8.hirsch be saraiya n poeth k schwartz rm epstein me honig g. effectiveness of fecal-derived microbiota transfer using orally administered capsules for recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

604 875 2332 fax 604 875 3244.e-mail addresses v. avinashi.0163-4453c 2017 the british infection association.

difficile lives in the large intestine and is capable of releasing protein exotoxins tcda and tcdb which is responsible for causing colitis in susceptible individuals.13 infection is transmitted via heat- and acid- resistant spores via fecal-oral route.13 c. difficile escapes the gastric environment of the stomach and reaches the small bowel where it germinates to vegetative forms that are susceptible to antimicrobials.9 tcda acts as an enterotoxin to interrupt colonic mucosal cell adherence to the basement membrane along with destroying villi.

usually the questionnaire is similar to that used for blood donors to exclude those with risk factors of disease transmission including hepatitis b or c virus hiv infection recent exposure to latter pathogens high-risk sexual behaviours recent tattoos or body piercing in the past 6 months travel to a region with enteric pathogens immunosuppressant or illicit drug use and active communicable disease.37 donor serum screening has also been recommended for hiv hepatitis viruses and syphilis.65 it would be prudent to exclude donors who have a history of recent antibiotic use inflammatory bowel disease irritable bowel syndrome and chronic diarrhea as well as those with those with other chronic medical conditions.65 donor stools should also be tested for enteric pathogens specifically bacterial pathogens c. difficile and some suggest more extensive testing including cryptosporidium giardia cyclospora isospora and helicobacter pylori if upper gastrointestinal route is used for fmt administration.66preparation of fecal transplant and recipient reparationeither fresh stool collected within 24 hours of installation or processed banked stool frozen at -80degc may be used.67 hamilton et al.

clostridium difficile infection in hospitalized children in the united states.

arch pediatr adolesc med 20111655451-7.rodemann jf dubberke er reske ka seo dh stone cd.incidence of clostridium difficile infection in inflammatory bowel disease.

epidemiology and risk factors for clostridium difficile infection in children.

the epidemiology of clostridium difficile infection in children a population-based study.

clostridium difficile infection epidemio- logy risk factors and management.

clostridium difficile infection in children a comprehensive review.

rapid stool-based diagnosis of clostridium difficile infection by real-time pcr in a children's hospital.

