bwc bowen wild- captured green turtles st stranded green turtles of townsville twc townsville wild-captured green turtles.20 most abundant otus in green turtle samples are shown in supplementary fig.

the top five most abundant genera in each turtle group are shown in table .figure 3. distribution and the relative abundance  of different bacterial communities in the samples from green turtles at different taxonomic levels of phylum a family b and genus c. bwc bowen wild-captured green turtles st stranded green turtles of townsville twc townsville wild-captured green turtles.6fems microbiology ecology 2017 vol.

bwc bowen wild-captured green turtles st stranded green turtles of townsville twc townsville wild-captured green turtles.table 3. the most abundant genera  of the relative abundance of otus in wild-captured and stranded groups of green turtles.figure 4. differential gut bacterial communities across all samples at otu level.

bwc bowen wild-captured green turtles st stranded green turtles of townsville twc townsville wild-captured green turtles.variation in beta diversitypcoa analysis was performed to visualize the dissimilarities in the fecal bacterial communities among different groups of green turtles.

pair-wise comparisons were performed by t-test p  0.05  p  0.01  p  0.001. bwc bowen wild-captured green turtles st stranded green turtles of townsville twc townsville wild-captured green turtles.anova showed that several intestinal bacteria were signif- icantly associated with specific group of green turtles.

trends biotechnol 200816107-14.stover ck pham xq erwin al et al.

the marked differences in the bacterial communities between wild-captured and stranded turtles suggest the possible dysbiosis in stranded turtles in addition to potential causal agents.keywords green turtle chelonia mydas gut microbiota bacterial diversity dysbiosis great barrier reefintroductionin both vertebrates and invertebrates it is now well recognized that the gut microbiome plays a vital role in maintaining thehost's health as well as in a wide range of diseases backhed et al.

the wild free- ranging green turtles n  8 were captured from edgecumbe bay bowen lat 2007i55ii s and long 14823i14ii e and cockle bay townsville lat 1940i34.32ii s long 14649i51.6ii e. edge- cumbe bay is a coastal embayment near the township of bowen which supports large patches of seagrass foraging areas along the fringe of the bay and an approximately 200 m2 coral reef habitat jensen et al.

the higher abundance of peptostreptococcus within the gi tract of stranded green turtles may indicate possible opportunistic infection as many peptostreptococcus species are recorded as causing clinical infections in marine mammals and humans murphy and frick  nielsen et al.

the genus pseu- domonas is one of the top three causes of opportunistic infections in humans and was in higher abundance in stranded green tur- tles stover et al.

which do not represent the whole biome including the non-cultivable bacteria.figure 1. map showing the sampling locations highlighted in the central great barrier reef marine park queensland australia.our study first characterized in detail the fecal bacterial communities of wild-captured green turtles from different geo- graphical locations including bowen and townsville and com- pared these bacterial communities with those encountered in stranded green turtles with unknown illness.materials and methodssample collections from free-ranging and stranded green turtles were made under permit from the department of environment and heritage protection authority permit no.

bwc bowen wild-captured green turtles st stranded green turtles of townsville twc townsville wild-captured green turtles.wild-captured turtles and 67 12.7 were associated with the stranded turtles fig.

stecher and hardt  costa et al.

12epithelium within the gastrointestinal gi tract of the host karen et al.

studies in different animal models also recognized their role in the modulation of the immune system and host physiology mao et al.

