these organisms are likely the major pathogens respon- sible for recurrent utis especially in patients who have profuse diarrhea due to cdi 4.fecal microbiota transplantation fmt has emerged as an effective therapy for recurrent cdi by restoring the normal gutmicrobiota 5. interestingly there may be additional benefits from fmt in addition to resolution of cdi.

conceptually fmt may have reduced colonization with multidrug-resistant e. coli clones such as st131 sequence type in favor of less pathogeniccoli clones or other largely commensal enteric organisms.although patients with a history of recurrent cdi are at high risk of recurrence of cdi on exposure to systemic antibiotics none of the patients in this series experienced cdi recurrence even after receipt of multiple courses of antibiotics for recurrent utis after fmt.

it is estimated that utis account for nearly 7 mil- lion office visits 1 million emergency room visits and about 100 000 hospitalizations per year and cost 1.6 billion annu- ally 1.clostridium difficile infection cdi is the most common nosocomial infection and has been associated with significant morbidity and mortality with an estimated 29 000 deaths annu- ally within 30 days of infection and a high risk of recurrence 2 3. the most common risk factor for recurrent cdi is ongo- ing broad-spectrum systemic antibiotic exposure used to treat infections such as recurrent utis.

detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria for donors in our program havebeen previously published 7. a control group of patients with 3 cdi episodes managed with antibiotics and 3 or more utis the year prior to the third cdi episode was also included.data collectionwe recorded patient demographics cdi history and frequency of utis in 1 year before and 1 year after fmt.

the median uti frequency in the year before the third cdi was 4 3-7 and in the year after it was 4 2-9 p  .55 wilcoxon signed rank test figure 1. there were no changes in antimicro- bial-resistance pattern comparing 13 e. coli isolates before the third cdi to 9 the year after or comparing the 10 klebsiella iso- lates before the third cdi to 13 the year after.

commensal intestinal bacteria have an important role in pathogen coloni- zation resistance by competing for nutrients altering gut ph forming antimicrobial metabolites and preventing access to binding sites on the mucosal wall 8. the widespread use of antibiotics created a dysbiotic microbiome and impairs coloni- zation resistance increasing the risk of mdro colonization and cdi 9. the need for repeated antibiotic courses may lead to both recurrent cdi and emergence of mdros that cause utis repeated treatment with antibiotics further disrupts the micro- biome thereby perpetuating the cycle.microbial replacement therapies such as fmt are being investigated for treatment of conditions associated with a dis- rupted gut microbiome including inflammatory bowel disease obesity and metabolic syndrome 9. it has been suggested that fmt might be effective in clearing vre and mdros by restor-figure 1. frequency of urinary tract infections.

a recent study demonstrated that fmt for recurrent cdi eradicated vancomy- cin-resistant enterococci vre colonization in 73 of vre- positive patients 6.we hypothesized that fmt would reduce the frequency of recurrent utis from antibiotic-resistant organisms by decol- onization of mdros from the gut.

for permissions e-mail doi 10.1093cidcix618resultsrecurrent clostridium difficile infection and recurrent urinary tract infection patients managed with fecal microbiota transplantationof all patients who underwent fmt for recurrent cdi 8 75 female median age 78.5 years range 25-86 had 3 or moreuti episodes the year prior and were included in the study.

clinical infectious diseases brie f repor tfecal microbiota transplantation for recurrent clostridium difficile infection reduces recurrent urinary tract infection frequencyraseen tariq1 darrell s. pardi1 pritish k. tosh2 randall c. walker2 raymund r. razonable2 and sahil khanna11division of gastroenterology and hepatology and 2division of infectious diseases mayo clinic rochester minnesotabroad-spectrum antibiotics for recurrent multidrug-resistant urinary tract infections utis disrupt the gut microbiome and promote antibiotic resistance.

these antibiotics disrupt the gut microbiota and not only lead to recurrent cdi but also facil- itate emergence of multidrug-resistant organisms mdros in the gut.

the institutional review board approved this study and receipt of informed patient con- sent was verified.methodspatient selectionwe retrospectively identified patients with 3 or more utis in the year preceding fmt for recurrent cdi from may 2012 to september 2016. uti was defined as the presence of uri- nary symptoms and urinary bacterial cultures with 105 colo- ny-forming unitsml.

detailed resistance patterns for e. coli and klebsiella are shown in table 1.recurrent clostridium difficile infection and recurrent urinary tract infection patients not managed with fecal microbiota transplantation of 8 patients in the control group 75 female median age85.5 years range 71-92 7 were managed with vancomycin and 1 with both vancomycin and metronidazole for their third cdi episode.

detailed resistance patterns are outlined in supplementary table 2. discussionin this study successful fmt for recurrent cdi was associated with a reduced uti frequency and an improved antibiotic sus- ceptibility profile of organisms that cause utis.

each square and line represent 1 patient.ing colonization resistance 10.repletion of healthy gut microbial communities with fmt primarily to treat recurrent cdi may decolonize enteric1746  cid 201765 15 november  brief reporttable 1. antimicrobial resistance patterns of most common bacterial organisms 1 year before and 1 year after fecal microbiota transplantationresistant no.

fecal microbiota transplantation led to resolution of recurrent clostridium difficile significantly decreased recurrent uti frequency and improved antibiotic susceptibility profile of uti-causing organisms.keywords.

