curr infect dis rep 2017 19 31 doi 10.1007s11908-017-0586-5fecal microbiota transplantation beyond clostridium difficilebraden millan1  michael laffin2  karen madsen2published online 2 august 2017 springer sciencebusiness media llc 2017abstractpurpose of review fecal microbiota transplantation fmt has been established as standard of care in the treatment of antibiotic refractory clostridium difficile infection rcdi.

each of these proposed indications for fmt is associated with an underlying dysbiosis of the gastrointestinal microbiota and generally a clinical response is linked with a restora- tion of the gut microbiota.summary the potential of fecal microbial transplantation to alter disease course shows promise but further large- scale studies are necessary to understand limitations as well as how best to utilize this therapy.this article is part of the topical collection on intra-abdominal infections hepatitis and gastroenteritis karen madsen 1 cumming school of medicine university of calgary calgary ab canada2 department of medicine cegiir center of excellence for gastrointestinal inflammation and immunity research 7-142 katz group center university of alberta edmonton ab canadakeywords fecal microbiota transplantation .

alterations in the gut mi- crobiota are associated with many diseases and research into fmt as a therapy has shown promising results.conclusionunderstanding the benefits of fmt will prove difficult with- out explicit reporting of key components of fecal microbiota transplantation research a notion that will enhance research inthe field of fecal microbiota transplants and provide better insight into its utility as a therapeutic agent for indications other than c. difficile infection .

201662121479-86. antibiotic resistance is a growing problem and the potential of fmt to modulate antibiotic- resistant microbial populations may play a crucial role in com- bating this issue.jouhten h mattila e arkkila p satokari r. reduction of antibiotic resistance genes in intestinal microbiota of patients with recurrent clostridium difficile infection after fecal microbiota transplantation.

total fecal microbiota transplantation alleviates high-fat diet-induced steatohepatitis in mice via beneficial regulation of gut microbiota.

the aga's fecal microbiota transplantation national registry an important step toward understanding risks and benefits of microbiota therapeutics.

furthermore our group demonstrated the efficacy of fmt in reducing the total number of antibiotic resistance genes contained in the gut microbiota of rcdi patients results that were corroborated by jouhten et al.

furthermore the differences in the microbiota in certain individuals may change the efficacy of fmts and must be explored in a de- tailed and scientific manner moving forward.

although there are few published reports early successes in the treatment of fgid with fmt suggest its potential.curr infect dis rep 2017 19 31page 3 of 4 31pushing the limits of fecal microbial transplantationthe advent of high-throughput microbial sequencing has en- abled the identification of a plethora of diseases associated with underlying gi microbiota dysbiosis.

to elucidate the influence of the gut microbiota in dis- ease results from cui and colleagues indicated that fmt in- creased survival of mice following irradiation and may have value in the treatment for radiation-induced gi toxicity .

additionally it was observed that the microbiota of the asd patients became more similar to that of neurotypical children following treatment .

fecal microbiota transplantation in patients with blood disorders inhibits gut colonization with antibiotic-resistant bacteria results of a prospective single-center study.

impact of faecal microbiota transplantation on mouse digestive colonization with two extensively resistant bacteria.

can fecal microbiota transplantation fmt eradicate fecal colonization with vancomycin-resistant en- terococci vre infect control hosp epidemiol.

fecal microbiota transfer for multidrug-resistant gram-negatives a clinical success combined with microbiological failure.

