splenic cd86 cells displayed the highest abundance at d7 post fmt but could also be restored to basal naive levels by either e. coli or l. johnsonii recolonization alone p  0.001 vs. abx .taken together our data indicate that depending on the respective immunological compartment and immune cell subset single bacterial commensal species may be as effective as complex microbiota in reversing antibiotics induced collateral damages on intestinal mucosal and systemic immunity.production of pro- andanti-inflammatory cytokines by cd4 cells in murine intestinal and systemic compartments following fmt or recolonization of secondary abiotic mice with e. coli or l. johnsoniiwe further addressed the impact of e. coli and l. johnsonii recolonization on the cytokine production pattern of cd4 lymphocytes in intestinal mucosal peripheral and systemic immunological sites and therefore determined the frequencies of tnf  ifn-g  il-17  il-22  and il-10  producing cd4 lymphocytes in the small and large intestines mln and spleens of recolonized mice.the antibiotics-induced decreases of tnf producing cd4 cells in the small and large intestines were accompanied by increased abundances in the mln and spleen p  0.01-0.001 abx vs. n .

johnsonii fmt led to any adverse clinical effects in mice such as wasting diarrhea occurrence of blood in feces or microscopic signs of intestinal inflammation including epithelial apoptosis data not shown.t cell populations in murine intestinal and systemic compartments following fmt or recolonization of secondary abiotic mice with e. coli or l. johnsoniito examine the impact of e. coli and l. johnsonii versus complex gut microbiota on distinct immune cell populations after antibiotic microbiota depletion we isolated lymphocytes from small and large intestinal lp mln and spleen and analyzed defined immune cell populations by flow cytometry on d7 and d28 post recolonization.

however both e. coli and l. johnsonii induced a significant increase of cd25 expression in lymphocytes derived from the small intestine colon and spleen as early as d7 post recolonization p  0.05-0.001 vs. abx  whereas notably l. johnsonii exerted a more pronounced effect than e. coli in the colon at d7 p  0.05-0.001 vs. ec .

furthermore secondary abiotic mice were recolonized with 109 cfu of either e. coli or l. johnsonii in 0.3 ml pbs gibco life technologies paisley united kingdom by gavage on day 0. the applied e. coli strain constitutes a commensal isolate derived from a naive conventionally colonized c57bl6j wildtype mouse and did not express known virulence factors such as stx 1 and 2 hlya cspa cata kata and asta as confirmed in a reference laboratory    .

in the systemic compartment however the observed increases in percentages of splenic cd8 cells in microbiota-depleted mice could be reversed by both e. coli and l. johnsonii until d7 and remained lower in e. coli recolonized mice later on.

suggested that the production of intestinal epithelial tissue-protective factors including tnf is regulated via tlr-mediated recognition of commensal bacteria while we here provide further evidence that the adaptive immune system may also contribute to this effect.furthermore both e. coli and l. johnsonii were able to promote the small intestinal and colonic production of ifn- g by cd4 cells as early as d7 post recolonization whereas this cytokine remained highly expressed until d28 only in thesmall intestines of e. coli recolonized mice.

importantly a common pilus adherence factor which mediates adhesion to epithelial cells has been reported for both pathogenic and commensal e. coli species   indicating that the observed effects on the th17 cells may be mediated through adherence of this commensal e. coli.furthermore both e. coli and l. johnsonii could restore the antibiotics-induced reduction of il-10 producing cd4 cells in the small intestines but only the latter could achieve the same effect in the colon indicating commensal species-specific anti-inflammatory properties.

a study conducted with germ-free rats revealed that colonic cd25 cells were higher in animals co-colonized with e. coli and l. plantarum 299v than in those harboring e. coli alone  .

 1  eliane von klitzing1  christian neumann23  petra bacher2  23  1 and 1edited bymarina i. arleevskaya kazan state medical academyrussiareviewed byrajaraman d. eri university of tasmania australialisa rizzetto fondazione edmund mach italy francisco jose perez-cano university of barcelona spaincorrespondence markus m. heimesaat specialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 29 august 2017accepted 23 november 2017published 11 december 2017citation ekmekciu i von klitzing e neumann c bacher p scheffold a bereswill s and heimesaat mm 2017 fecal microbiota transplantation commensal escherichia coli and lactobacillus johnsonii strains differentially restore intestinal and systemic adaptive immune cell populations following broad-spectrum antibiotic treatment.

aim of this study was to examine the ability of defined gram-positive and gram-negative intestinal commensal bacterial species namely escherichia coli and lactobacillus johnsonii respectively to restore immune functions in mice that were immunosuppressed by antibiotics-induced microbiota depletion.

coli and l. johnsonii have the potential to restore individual functions of intestinal and systemic immunity.

in conclusion our data provide novel insights into the distinct role of individual commensal bacteria in maintaining immune functions duringfollowing dysbiosis induced by antibiotic therapy thereby shaping host immunity and might thus open novel therapeutical avenues in conditions of perturbed microbiota composition.keywords commensal intestinal microbiota escherichia coli lactobacillus johnsonii fecal microbiota transplantation secondary abiotic gnotobiotic mice intestinal mucosal and peripheral and central immunity immune-modulating effects immune restorationintroductionapproximately 1013 microorganisms collectively known as microbiota reside in the human gastrointestinal tract    and have increasingly received well-deserved attention regarding their deep impact on the physiology and well-being of the mammalian host.

for instance a reduction of the il-17 producing th17 cell compartment playing a pivotal role in protection against bacterial and fungal pathogens   may explain the increased susceptibility of microbiota depleted mice to pathogens    .in the present study we investigated the role of two important representatives of gram-negative namely e. coli and gram-positive namely l. johnsonii commensals both derived from the gut microbiota of healthy mice in restoring numbers of distinct immune cell subsets following antibiotic treatment as compared to fmt in c57bl6j abx mice.

to address this we analyzed the immune responses exerted by lymphocytes within the small and large intestinal lp mln and spleen of microbiota-depleted mice upon reassociation with e. coli or l. johnsonii and upon fmt at day d 7and d28 post recolonization.

intestinal samples were collected in parallel for microbiological and immunological analyses.quantitative analysis of bacterial colonizationtotal intestinal loads of e. coli and l. johnsonii were quantitated in fecal and colonic samples over time post recolonization or upon necropsy.

