fmt for infantile ac treatmentplantation fmt treatment on allergic colitis ac and gut microbiota gm.methodswe selected a total of 19 ac infants who suffered from severe diarrheahematochezia did not relieve completely after routine therapy or cannot adhere to the therapy and were free from organ congenital malformations and other contraindications for fmt.

at the genus level bacteroides n  6 escherichia n  8 and lactobacillus n  4 were enriched in some ac infants after fmt treatment but the relative abundances of clostridium n  5 veillonella n  7 streptococcus n 6 and klebsiella n  8 decreased dramatically.conclusionfmt is a safe and effective method for treating pe- diatric patients with ac and restoring gm balance.key words pediatric infantile allergic colitis fecal microbiota transplantation gut microbiota immune reactionc the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.allergic colitis ac is a common infantile rectal bleeding disorder which is caused by severe allergic reactions within the digestive system12.

fmt for infantile ac treatmentpatient selectionac was diagnosed based on the following clinical symptoms 1 rectal bleeding withwithout mucus and diarrhea 2 exclusion of infectious colitis anal fissure lymphoid nodular hyperplasia and uncommon conditions such as necrotizing enterocolitis hirschsprung's enterocolitis ibd15 and ibs16 3 clinical remission after milk exclusion and recurrence after milk re-challenge317 and 4 histological examination indicated that the intestinal mucosa exhibited chronic inflammation with eosinophils infiltration and colonic lesions supplementary file 1. pediatric ac patients meeting the following criteria were selected as fmt candidates 1 the patients had no complete remission after routine therapy the patients cannot adhere to the therapy thoroughly or their parents had strong intention to receive the treatment of fmt 2 free from contraindications for fmt such as intestinal obstructions perforations and bleeding or severe immunodeficiency diseases and 3 colonoscopic inspection indicated no mucosal congestion edema multiple spot-like erosion or lymphoid granular nodes four cases included in figure 1. as a result 19 ac patients were enrolled in the study between september 2015 and december 2015 table 1.donor screeningpatients' mothers were considered to be donors of the highest priority followed by fathers and healthy peers.

disease duration of ac patients was 0.5-3 mo for 16 cases and 3-6 mo for three cases table 1. formula was replaced with hypoallergenic milk powder in all patients' dietary and 11 of them were exposed to probiotics before fmt treatment table 1. the colonoscopic inspection of four ac infants was included in figure 1.fmt safety and efficacyinfants experienced low-quality sleep and weight loss since the onset of ac but no one was malnourished.

stools were collected from ten ac infants before and after fmt and gm composition was assessed for infants and donors using 16s rdna sequencing analysis.resultsafter fmt treatment ac symptoms in 17 infants were relieved within 2 d and no relapse was observed in the next 15 mo.

baldassarre et al8 used probiotics to treat ac infants and found that lactobacillus gg may relieve symptoms of ac by altering gm composition8.

however to our knowledge fmt has not been used to treat ac infants.thus we assessed 19 ac infants with severe he- matochezia andor diarrhea who had not acquired complete remission after 2 wk of routine therapy or because the guardians cannot adhere to the routine therapy thoroughly.

ac allergic colitis fmt fecal microbiota transplantation.package version 3.2.3.resultspatients and decreased defecation frequency with improved stool consistency was also observed table 1. within more than 15 mo of follow-up the symptoms of ac had not relapsed except two patients who wererecipient characteristicsfmt recipients were aged from 4 to 11 mo 11 boys and 8 girls and had hematochezia or severe diarrhea.

proteobacteria decreased dramatically to  10 for most patients except four patients supplementary file 2. whilst firmicutes increased in all patients supplementary file 2.the relative abundance of escherichia significantly increased in eight ac infants supplementary file 3. bacteroides increased in five ac infants including three who had no bacteroides pre-fmt supplementary file3.

although the results favor the application of fmt for ac treatment it is still important to clarify whether ac symptoms can be improved in our future studies with larger sample size.

fmt for infantile ac treatmentresearch backgroundallergic colitis ac which is characterized as hematochezia and severe diarrhea is caused by an intense allergic reaction of the digestive system.

this research could provide important references for the treatment and research of infantile ac with fmt therapy.research objectivesthe research aimed to detect the safety and efficiency of fmt treatment in acand compare gm composition before and after fmt treatment in the patients.research methodsthe procedures of fmt including selection of ac patients and donors were conducted according to the guidelines established by the institutional review board of tongji hospital tongji medical college huazhong university of science and technology.

meanwhile the relative abundances of proteobacteria and firmicutes were decreased 610 and increased 1010 respectively in the ac infants.research conclusionsthis study documents the positive effect of fmt treatment on infantile ac remission suggesting the potential of fmt in gastrointestinal allergic diseases.

qualified donor-derived stools were collected and injected to the ac infants via a rectal tube.

clinical improvement was also detected in the other two ac infants who were lost to follow- up.

