in addition haverkate et al found that the median time to spontaneous decolonization of arb in intensive care unit patients was 4.8 months 21 and patients hospitalizedin long-term acute-care hospitals needed a median of 205 days and 270 days between readmissions to get rid of colonizing arb strains 22. looking at analyses performed in populations that are more comparable to the population in our study the median duration of colonization with vre in pediatric oncol- ogy patients was 112 days 23 and 306 days in immunosup- pressed liver or kidney transplant recipients colonized with vre 24. in a population that included patients with blood disorders zimmerman et al reported that a longer time mean 387 days was required to obtain negative rectal swab cultures from individuals who were originally colonized with cpe 25. these findings were confirmed by oren et al who revealed that only 7 of patients on a hematology ward became decolonized from cpe after a median of 140 days 26.also there have been attempts to decolonize patients using targeted antibiotics.

more information about each fmt is provided in the supplementary materials.microbiome analysesof the 7 patients colonized with k. pneumoniae ndm1 whose microbiota compositions were analyzed 4 became decolonized366  cid 201765 1 august  bilinski et altable 2. impact of fecal microbiota transplantation on complete and partial antibiotic-resistant bacteria arb decolonization with or without antibi- otics during the first week after transplantationall fmts n  25with antibiotics n  11without antibiotics n  14endpointno.no.no.p valueabbreviations arb antibiotic-resistant bacteria fmt fecal microbiota transplantation.table 3. decolonization of particular strains of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in all participants and those without antibiotics use during the first week after fecal microbiota transplantationnegative rectal swab at 1 weekdecolonization at 1 monthallwithoutantibioticsallwithout antibioticsabbreviations esbl extended-spectrum b-lactamase mbl metallo-b-lactamase.adecolonization confirmed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction.while the remaining 3 were nonresponders.

the rate of partial arb decolonization was even higher at 80. the reported results are in line with recent observations by millan et al who reported that fmt used to treat recurrent c. difficile infection reduces the load of antibiotic-resistant genes in the gut of patients heavily pretreated with antibiotics 34.another positive aspect of the fmts was the durability of the response that is recolonization with the same arb occurred in only 315 20 patients see supplementary materials.

scand j infect dis 2014 4681-8.370  cid 201765 1 august  bilinski et alcaselli d cesaro s ziino o et al infection study group of the associazione italiana ematologia oncologia pediatrica.

additional fecal samples were collected and frozen in liquid nitrogen for subsequent microbiome sequencing.next-generation sequencingfrom 7 patients colonized with k. pneumoniae new delhi met- allo-b-lactamase-1 ndm1 fecal samples were subjected to microbiota composition sequencing.

bacteroides butyricimonas the number of otus or the shannon index ofdiarrhea within3 days after fmt25100grade 1 transientfecal samples taken from the participants before and after fmtabdominal pain28grade 3 present alreadybefore fmtileus28grade 2 present already before fmtsafety assessment of the adverse events involved grading them 18. abbreviation fmt fecal microbiota transplantation.see supplementary materials.discussionrecently we showed that individuals who underwent allohct and who were colonized with arb had a higher mortality ratefecal transplantation and gut colonization  cid 201765 1 august  367figure 1. analysis of next-generation sequencing data from samples obtained from the transplanted fecal material donated to patients who were colonized with klebsiella pneumoniae ndm1.

therefore when possible the use of antibiotics shortlyafter fmt should be reserved for life-threatening situations.to explore the mechanisms behind the effects of fmt we performed next-generation sequencing ngs of fecal samples taken from patients who were colonized with k. pneumoniae ndm1 and from the fecal material that was transplanted into them.

clinical infectious diseases majo r articl e fecal microbiota transplantation in patients with blood disorders inhibits gut colonization with antibiotic-resistant bacteria results of a prospective single-center studyjaroslaw bilinski1 pawel grzesiowski2 nikolaj sorensen3 krzysztof madry1 jacek muszynski4 katarzyna robak1marta wroblewska56 tomasz dzieciatkowski5 grazyna dulny7 jadwiga dwilewicz-trojaczek1 wieslaw wiktor-jedrzejczak1 and grzegorz w. basak11department of hematology oncology and internal diseases medical university of warsaw and 2foundation for the infection prevention institute warsaw poland 3clinical-microbiomicscopenhagen denmark and 4department of gastroenterology and metabolic diseases 5department of microbiology central clinical hospital 6department of dental microbiology and7department of epidemiology central clinical hospital medical university of warsaw polandbackground.

however this crucial defense mechanismcan be impaired by treatment with antibiotics and chemotherapy 5 and people may consequently become carriers of pathogenic bacteria including strains that are resistant to treatment.colonized patients pose an epidemiological threat to other hospitalized individuals and to members of their households 6 7 but are also in danger of developing systemic infections with gut-colonizing microorganisms 8 9. this is especially the case for patients with blood disorders due to suppression of their innate andor acquired immunity.

there was no signifi- cant difference in the diversity of the microbiome in the fecal material transplanted into the responders and nonresponderstable 4. adverse events after fecal microbiota transplantationeventno.commentvomiting14immediately after infusionshannon index 3.5 vs 3.1 p  .06 figure 1e.

it shouldbe noted that the efficacy of fmt at eradicating e. coli esbl from the gi tract was 100. in patients colonized with highly resistant k. pneumoniae ndm1 complete arb decolonization was achieved in 60 of cases and in 83 of patients not treated with antibiotics for the first week post-fmt confirmed by qpcr.

regarding the transplanted fecal material the number of otus was significantly higher in the fecal material that was donated to the responders compared with that from nonre- sponders.

fecal microbial transplants reduce antibiotic-re- sistant genes in patients with recurrent clostridium difficile infection.

in a study by o'fallon et al the median duration of colonization with mul- tidrug-resistant gram-negative bacilli was 144 days 20. the spontaneous clearance of all resistant strains occurred in only 9 of participants.

rieg et al showed that treatment led to the eradication of esbl enterobacteriaceae in 42 of individuals.

