to compare the microbiome composition of the hospitalized israeli patients to that of healthy individ- uals we used data from a healthy adult israeli populationaged 17-80 israeli healthy 1 and a local cohort of healthy volunteers israeli healthy 2 supplementary table .

data from healthy individuals were obtained from a healthy adult israeli cohortisraeli healthy 1 and local healthy volunteers' israeli healthy 2 fecal samples were collected and analyzed similarly to the hospitalized samples.

interestingly we noted a significant lower helicobacter from the campylobacteraceae family in hospitalized israeli cohort in comparison israeli healthy 1 but higher abundance of helicobacter was noted in israeli healthy 2.high proteobacteria abundance seen by 16s-seq cannot be explained by positive stool cul- ture results.

bonferroni corrected compared to hospitalized population q  3.0e- 44 for proteobacteria abundance in mann whitney test between hospitalized and healthy 1 and q  2.7e-3 and between hospitalized and healthy 2. in the healthy israeli population 95 of samples had less than 10 abun- dance of taxa from the proteobacteria phylum fig.

showed that hospitalized israeli samples had significant higher b-diversity than the healthy israeli population by cohort bonferroni corrected mann whitney test q 1.3e-2 between hospi- talized and healthy 1  2. interestingly significantly lower a-diversity was noted in age-matched adult hospital- ized patients with positive stool molecular testing for clostridium difficile compared to those with negative testing supplementary fig.

as the israeli healthy adult dataincluded repeating samples from some individuals samples with a unifracscore under 0.05 similarity to other samples within the dataset were removed.

maaslin analysis was performed for younger 4 versus older 18-70 ages within the hospitalized israeli population while controlling for gender and for israeli hospi- talized and israeli healthy 1 while controlling for gender and age group 0-4 4-18 18-70 and 70. fold change was calculated at the genus level for taxa that had a q value lower than 0.05. fold change between two groups was calculated by dividing the mean abundance of taxa in those groups.declarationsethics approval.

of the 14 samples that were positive for campylobacter the relative abundance of campylobacter varied remarkably 6 samples had 1 6 samples had1 but 10 and 2 had 10 relative abundance.

young hospitalized patients 0- 4 years with suspected infectious diarrhea had a higher abundance of taxa from actinobacteria phyla lower abundance of the bacteroidetes phyla and a diverse fold change at the genus level within the firmicutes and proteobacteria phyla.microbiota from hospitalized patients show significant high abundance of proteobacteria taxa.

the hospitalized israeli population had the highest frac- tion 60 of samples having proteobacteria abundance above 10 with abundance 90 in some samples.

healthy individual's data were obtained from publicly avail- able databasesisraeli healthy 1. in this study our primary goal was to characterize the microbial composition and diversity of non-selected israeli hospitalized individuals with suspected infectious diarrhea in comparison to healthy population.

showed no significant difference between hospitalized israeli and the healthy israeli population by cohort bonferroni corrected mann whitney q  0.39 between hospitalized and healthy 1  2. b-diversity between cohorts fig.

fold change of significant associations between the israel hospitalized cohort relative to israeli healthy 1 and israeli healthy 2 for specific taxa at the genus level was calculated for the proteobacteria taxa fig.

fold change in taxonomic abundance of the israel hospitalized cohort relative to healthy israeli population israeli health 1 2 is shown.

however when we tested the fold change of the israeli healthy cohorts relative to the hospitalized population we noted similar difference with increase abundance of those taxa in hospitalized israeli.

