fmt was successful in 15 of 25 60 procedures at 1 month postprocedure among the 20 patients and 13 of 14 93 patients at 6 months.these results are encouraging and in line with our study among 8 carriers of highly resistant digestive bacteria 2 but some questions still need to be discussed.impact of immunosuppression fmt is usually discouraged in immunocom- promised patients due to possible septic complications 3. nonetheless bilinskycorrespondence  cid 201765 15 october  1425et al performed fmt in such patients without septic adverse events showing it may not be a contraindication for fmt.age of patient its impact on fail- ure of decolonization by fmt as for clostridium difficile infection cdi seems possible.antimicrobials prior to fmt the authors did not use antimicrobials for decolonization prior to fmt as we did in our study contrary to lagier et al 2 4.multiple fmts fmt was performed twice among 3 patients and 3 times among 1 patient in this study.

this discrepancy could be explained by several factors previously discussed our patients were older median age was 69.5 vs 51 years in bilinsky et al only 1 fmt was performed for each patient frozen feces were used 5 of our patients received antimicrobials during follow-up which is significantly associated with failure 1 and last we studied colonization by carbapenem-re- sistant enterobacteriaceae or vancomy- cin-resistant enterococci and their rate of decolonization is different according to a recent experimental model 6.we fully agree with the authors that fmt seems to be a safe and long-lasting response contrary to only oral antimi- crobial decolonization 7.finally the authors suggested that individuals undergoing allogeneic hema- togenous cell transplantation colonized with arb had a higher mortality rate and lower overall survival rate compared with noncolonized individuals but this out- come was not evaluated in their study 8. in conclusion we need to standardize and harmonize practice to correctly eval- uate fmt which seems to be a promisingstrategy 9.notepotential conflicts of interest.

this supports the concept of a doseeffect for fmt efficacy as discussed in our study 2. however the authors did not provide the indication for these multi- ple fmt procedures was it because of failure of decolonizationfresh vs frozen feces in our study we used frozen feces for pragmatic reasons whereas bilinsky et al used fresh feces.

for permissions e-mail doi 10.1093cidcix537c fecal microbiota transplantation is a new effective weaponto fight multidrug-resistant bacteria but harmonization and more data are neededto the editor--we have read with great interest the article by bilinski et al on fe- cal microbiota transplantation fmt in patients with blood disorders 1.they performed 25 intraduodenal fmts among 20 immunosuppressed patients colonized with antibiotic-resist- ant bacteria arb.

in their study tamma et al considered antibiotic therapy as a time-fixed varia- ble.

previous antibiotic expo- sures could have altered the patients' microbiome increasing the risk of col- onization and infection with antimi- crobial-resistant organisms and might have an effect in the odds for bacter- emia recurrence and 14-day mortality.besides the possible distortion on the results caused by the way antibiotic therapy was measured there are several implications of tamma et al's findings.

each case is ana- lyzed to determine the best combination of antimicrobials based on the possible mechanism of resistance providing per- sonalized combinations of antimicro- bial regimens for patients where limited options exist in the current antibiotic armamentarium unpublished data.we commend tamma et al for an excellent manuscript with valuable find- ings which will hopefully encourage others to consider the complexity of anti- biotic exposure as a time-dependent var- iable in the future.notepotential conflicts of interest.

conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the content of the manu- script have been disclosed.adriana jimenez12 lilian abbo13 andmerhawi t. gebrezgi21department of infection prevention and control jackson memorial hospital 2department of epidemiology robert stempel college of public health and social work florida international university and 3division of infectious diseases university of miami miller school of medicine floridareferencestamma pd goodman ke harris ad et al.

clin infect dis 2016 621558-63.jongerden ip speelberg b satizabal cl et al.

crit care med 2015 43774-80.noteboom y ong ds oostdijk ea et al.

emerg infect dis 2012 181503-7.jimenez a castro jg munoz-price ls et al.

conflicts that the editors consider relevant to the content of the manuscript have been disclosed.aurelien dinh1 clara duran1 frederique bouchand2jerome salomon13 and benjamin davido11infectious disease unit and 2pharmacy departmentpoincare university hospital assistance publique-hopitaux de paris versailles saint-quentin university garches and 3umr 1181 inserm institut pasteur paris francereferencesbilinski j grzesiowski p sorensen n et al.

clin infect dis 201765364-70.davido b batista r michelon h et al.

j hosp infect 2015 90173-4.lee ch steiner t petrof eo et al.

jama 2016 315142-9.mahieu r cassisa v godefroy a et al.

