5 428-439research paperreportfecal microbiota variation across the lifespan of the healthy laboratory ratburkhardt flemer nadia gaci guillaume borrel ian r. sanderson prem p. chaudhary william totteypaul w. o'toole and jean-franc ois brug ereaschool of microbiology and apc microbiome institute university college cork ireland bea-4678 cidam clermont universite universite d'auvergne clermont-ferrand france cblizard institute barts and the london school of medicine and dentistry queen mary university of london london ukarticle historyreceived 27 october 2016 revised 23 march 2017 accepted 18 may 2017keywordsgut microbiota human biologic model lifespan evolution rat rattus norvegicusintroductionhigher animals are meta-organisms in which microbes roughly equal host cells.the mammalian gastrointesti- nal tract git is home to a large and complex micro- bial community with distinct compositions in different animal species related to their anatomic specificities and habitual diet frugivorous herbivorous folivorous car- nivorous omnivorous.gut microbes encode impor- tant biologic functions that affect host gut homeostasis eg host nutrient metabolism development and mainte- nance of the gut mucosal barrier immunomodulation protection against pathogens xenobiotic and drugs metabolism.understanding of the composition ofthe human gut microbiota and its potential influence on health stems mainly from cohort studies.

gut microbes 2012 3234-49 pmid22572831 alpert c sczesny s gruhl b blaut m. long-term stability of the human gut microbiota in two different rat strains.curr issues mol biol 2008 1017-24 pmid18manichanh c reeder j gibert p varela e llopis m antolin m guigo r knight r guarner f. reshaping the gut microbiome with bacterial transplantation and anti- biotic intake.

s4 as also has been reported previously.collectively the gut microbiota of mice and rats was more similar to each other than to the gut micro- biota of humans .

these transplantation difficulties seem less problematic in rats in which most high-abundance human gut microbes were engrafted from donor feces to gf rat recipients in contrast to gf mice.results obtained here support the hypothesis of a closer simi- larity of human and rats to their gut microbial compo- sition than that between humans and mice which possibly accounts for the better engraftment of trans- planted human microbiota into gf rats.

while the gut is likely exposed continuously to new microbes some thrive only for a limited length of time possibly fulfilling important temporary func- tional roles for gut homeostasis.

overall considering the metabolic behavior of the gut microbiota the dynamics of the gut microbiota in rats should be taken into account when using rats for pre- clinical models e.g.

quantitatively different yet qualitatively alike a meta-analysis of the mouse core gut microbiome with a view towards the human gut microbiome.

gut microbes 2017 vol.

these stud- ies were facilitated by recent advances in bioinformatics metabolomics and sequencing technologiesbut also informed by studying animal models.it is therefore important to develop a better understanding of gut microbiota in the laboratory animals routinely used in pre-clinical models for human microbiota studies.rats and mice are among the most frequently used laboratory animals in diverse fields of life sciences including the microbiome because of their gross physi- ologic similarities to humans as well as similarities regarding their git anatomy at the organ tissue andcontact jean-francois brug ere5e cbrv facultes de medecine et de pharmacie de clermont-ferrand 28 place henri dunant f-63000 clermont-ferrand france paul w. o'tooleschool of microbiology and apc microbiome institute university college cork college road cork irelandsupplemental data for this article can be accessed on the .ycontributed equallyc 2017 burkhardt flemer nadia gaci guillaume borrel ian r. sanderson prem p. chaudhary william tottey paul w. o'toole and jean-franc ois brug ere.

this so-called humanization of the rodent git with human gut microbiotahas improved the appli- cability of mice as a model for human gut-related stud- ies.

nutrition pharmacology toxicology but little is known about its gut microbiota especially its evolution during the lifespan of the animals.

brooks and col- leaguesreported only 2 microbial phyla in the gut microbiota of wistar rats with about 2 thirds of the 44 otus 96 sequence identity detected being classified as firmicutes and the remainder as bacteroidetes.

improved sequencing throughput has led to a deeper understanding of these gut microbes in rats e.g.

however data remains sparse and to our knowledge the relationship between age and microbiota composition has not yet been studied in rats in contrast to the human gut ecosystem.we therefore studied the fecal microbiota of a com- mon laboratory rat lineage the norwegian sprague dawley rat in a cross-sectional study under controlled environmental and dietary conditions.

we report here the fecal microbiota of healthy animals over their life- span and we compare it to the microbiota profiles of mice and humans.resultsrat gut microbiota composition changes significantly with agingwe studied the fecal microbiota of rats kept under controlled environmental conditions from birth as a function of their chronological age.

