centro hospitalar vila nova de gaia-espinho.vila nova de gaia portugalreferencesponte a pinho r mota m et al.

392letters to the editorfecal microbiota transplantation is there a role in the eradication of carbapenem-resistant klebsiella pneumoniae intestinal carriagekey words fecal microbiota transplantation.

carbapenem-resistant klebsiella pneumoniae.doi 10.17235reed.2017.44252016dear editorthe authors present the case of a 66-year-old woman with four hospitalizations due to recurrent clostridium difficile infection cdi non responsive to vancomycin and fidaxomicin.

further- more intestinal colonization with carbapenem-resistant klebsiella pneumoniae crkp was identified after a positive stool culture in a screening routinely performed in our center in patients recently hospitalized.

in subsequent follow-up appointments the patient remained asymptomatic and three screenings for crkp with stool cultures performed 15 45 and 100 days after fmt were persistently negative.discussionin recent years crkp has become a major health problem with an increasing prevalence from less than 1 in 2000 to 8in 2007 of all klebsiella isolates 2. crkp can confer resistance to multiple different antimicrobial classes and the best treatment regimen of crkp remains undefined 23. moreover crkp infections are associated with frequent treatment failure and mor- tality rates of at least 50 34. intestinal carriage of crkp has also been increasingly reported and it is estimated that 10 of these patients will develop infection 5. therefore intestinal decontamination of crkp may prevent further infections and transmission.

detection and treatment options for klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemases kpcs an emerging cause of multrid- rug-resistant infection.

treatment of klebsiella pneumoniae carbap- enemase kpc infections a review of published case series and case reports.

intestinal decontamination of multidrug-resistant klebsiella pneumoniae after recurrent infec- tions in an immunocompromised host.

1130-010820171095392revista espanola de enfermedades digestivasc copyright 2017. sepd y c aran ediciones s.l.rev esp enferm dig2017 vol.

centro hospitalar vila nova de gaia-espinho.

vila nova de gaia portugal.

programade prevencao e controlo de infecao e resistencia aos anti- microbianos.

