fecal microbiota transfer may have contributed to clin- ical success but it cannot be excluded that mdr p aeruginosa was already eradicated from the gut before fmt because the p aeruginosa could not be cultured the day before fmt.a remarkable observation is the persistence of an esbl- positive e coli after fmt.

donor serum and feces were extensively screened for fecal and blood transmitted diseases including mdr bacteria.figure 1. timeline of recurrent infections antibiotic use and microbiota diversity before and after fecal microbiota transfer.

to assess the relatedness of bacterial strains amplified fragment length polymorphism aflp technique was performed as described previously .microbiota analysisbacterial deoxyribonucleic acid dna was isolated from the fecal samples using the zr fecal dna miniprep kit zymo research.

a few reports men- tion success with fecal microbiota transfer fmt to elim- inate extended-spectrum b-lactamase esbl-producing enterobacteriaceae.

ca mssa catheter-related bacteremia with methicillin-sensitive staphylococcus areus fmt fecal microbiotica transfer gi gastrointestinal mdr multidrug resistant pd peritoneal dialysis.seventy-five grams of feces was homogenized with saline and sieved 300-mm mesh to remove undigested food fragments.

this suggests that novel strains acquired via fmt can colonize the gut without replac- ing the indigenous strain population of the recipient.in contrast to the diminished microbiota of recurrent clostridium difficile infection cdi patients our patient had an intact microbiota diversity and composition at phylum level before fmt.

it is clear that more research on fmt for eradication of colonization of differ- ent mdr bacterial species is required.only 8 case reports have been published showing that fmt resulted in intestinal decolonization of esbl- and carbapene- mase-producing enterobacteriaceae vre or methicillin-re- sistant s aureus .

open forum infectious diseases brie f repor t fecal microbiota transfer for multidrug-resistant gram-negatives a clinical success combined with microbiological failurejanneke e. stalenhoefelisabeth m. terveercornelis w. knetsch peter j. van't hofimro n. vlasveldjosbert j. kellerleo g. visserand eduard j. kuijperdepartments of 1infectious diseases and 2medical microbiology and 3sequencing analysis support core leiden university medical center netherlands and 4department of gastroenterology medical center haaglanden the hague netherlandscase descriptiona 34-year-old male with type 1 diabetes mellitus was referred to our tertiary hospital because of diabetic nephropathy.

shortly after discharge hecombined fecal microbiota transfer and antibiotic treatment prevented recurrences of urinary tract infections with multid- rug-resistant mdr pseudomonas aeruginosa but it failed to eradicate intestinal colonization with mdr escherichia coli.

fecal microbiota transplantation multidrugresistance microbiome 16s analysis.returned to our hospital with a febrile catheter-related uti and was treated empirically with ceftazidim.

microbiome analy- sis was performed before and after infusion of fecal microbiota.following months the patient suffered from recurrent febrile utis due to the mdr p aeruginosa details on antibiotic use shown in .

after consultation with our ethics committee informed consent was obtained from the patient for treatment with fecal microbiota written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication.

for commercial re-use please contact doi 10.1093ofidofx047was performed.material and methodsdonor feces infusion was performed using the support of the national donor feces bank  according to the fecal trial protocol with minor modifications .

within 8 hours after defecation of the donor 300-ml fecal sus- pension was infused in the duodenum of the patient through a nasoduodenal tube after full colon lavage.

at phyla level a high similarity of donor and recipient microbiota was observed with respect to the firmicutes and bacteroidetes as the expected main phyla of the microbiota .discussiona 34-year-old patient on pd and recurrent utis with a vim-positive p aeruginosa was treated with infusion of fecal microbiota to eradicate p aeruginosa from the intestinal tract.

