Consistent with this apparent HMO-Bifidobacterium link it has been observed that reduced fucosylation of HMOs from mothers with inactive Se andor Le genes impacts on the composition of bifidobacterial communities in the infant gut.Furthermore it has become apparent that the genomes of these anaerobic microbes encode a broad spectrum of glycan-degrading enzymes some of which represent species-specific glycosyl hydrolases that metabolise particular HMOs such as fucosyl-lactose sialyl-lac- tose and lacto-N-tetraose.Molecular analyses show that Bifidobacterium longum subsp infantis and Bifidobacterium bifidum are endowed with the widest range of HMO-degrading abilities whereas other infant-associated bifidobacteria such as Bifidobacterium breve and B. longum subsp longum are much more limited in this regard.However it has been shown for B. breve that this species cross feeds on the HMO-derived carbo- hydrates released by the extracellular enzymes of B. bifidum indicating that certain bifidobacterial species support each other whereas others are more 'egocentric' in nature as they internalise the HMOs prior to hydrolysis.Intrinsic metabolic interactions among the various infant-associated bifidobacteria are incom- pletely understood as are the exchanges between bifidobacteria and other gut microbiota components and how these influence the developing host.In addition to supplying the newborn with a personalisedfunctional food breast milk may also act as a vehicle for vertical transmission of microbes including bifidobacteria to the devel- oping gut microbiota.Such vertical transfer has been linked to the optimal development of early innate immunity.The neonatal and infant microbiota exert its maximal influence on the maturation of acquired and innate immunity during a critical window in the first few years of life reviewed in the studies by Charbonneau et al Kau et al Hand et al and Shanahan and Sheehan.The disparity in content of HMO or HMO-like content of human and bovine milkis one of the reasons for recom- mending exclusive breastfeeding in the first 6 months of neonatal life.Commercial milk formulae traditionally based on bovine milk are now supplemented with specific carbohydrates such as galacto-oligosaccharides to replicate some of the HMO-as- sociated functionalities.Large-scale production of relatively simple HMOs such as sialyl-lactose fucosyllactose and Lacto- N-neotetraose will facilitate the development of next genera- tion 'humanised' milk with added or enhanced functionality.

Indeed the increasing frequency of such disorders in socio- economically developed countries has been linked in part to the modifying influence of human lifestyle factors such as antibiotic exposure andShanahan F et al.

20067688-93.Charbonneau MR Blanton LV DiGiulio DB et al.

200222283-307.Kau AL Ahern PP Griffin NW et al.

2015271-7.Hand TW Vujkovic-Cvijin I Ridaura VK et al.

2016352544-5.Carmody RN Gerber GK Luevano JM et al.

20151772-84.David LA Maurice CF Carmody RN et al.

2015309G209-G215.Wahlstrom A Sayin SI Marschall HU et al.

20162441-50.Buffie CG Bucci V Stein RR et al.

2015517205-8.Joyce SA MacSharry J Casey PG et al.

