all values are means - se n 14 8-10. graphs marked with different letters a b are significantly different p  0.05.weight was lower among mice that received fiber-enriched diets than among those that received nd b.fasting levels of glucose were lower in the cp and g mice than in the nd group c. both fiber-enriched diets led to improved glucose tolerance as indicated by the ogtt results at 30 60 90 and 120 min but no intergroup differences in blood serum insulin levels were observed data not shown.intestinal contents and scfa levels as affected by various fibers after fiber fermentationintestinal histology revealed healthy morphology and no abnormalities were detected among the various groups data not shown.weights of intestines and intestinal contents were signifi- cantly higher in group g than in cp and nd and were higher in cp than in nd a b.group average weights of feces were 1.20.2 2.60.2 and1.10.2 g for nd cp and g respectively.the scfa levels in cecal contents differed among the groups.

all values are means - se n 14 6-9. columns marked with different letters a b c are significantly different p  0.0001 yp  0.05. cp citrus pectin g galactomannan nd normal diet scfa short-chain fatty acid.membrane after fiber fermentation and mct1 protein levels in long intestines were higher in cp than in nd mice .alterations in gut microbiota following fiber enrichmentclassification by phylum showed the highest percentage of bacteroidetes and lowest percentage of firmicutes in fiber-fed groups especially in animals fed galactomannans a b. classification according to genus showed that the number of counts of prevottela was greater among g mice than nd animals c.liver response to fiber enrichmenthistologic examination did not reveal liver damage that could be attributed to fiber consumption.

animals were sacrificed at 4 wk and relevant organs were harvested.results fiber enrichment led to reductions in weight gain fasting glucose levels and total serum cholesterol p  0.05. compared with mice fed the normal diet microbiota populations were altered in both fiber groups and were found to be richer in bacteroidetes rather than firmicutes p  0.05. the modification was significantly greater in galactomannan-fed than in cp-fed mice p  0.0001. also enhanced levels of the short-chain fatty acid scfa propionate were found in the cecal contents of cp-fed animals p  0.05. protein expression levels of monocarboxylate transporter 1 which may promote transport of scfa were measured in the large intestines after fiber consumption.

all values are means - se n 14 5-8 animals columns marked with different letters a b c are significantly different p  0.05. cp citrus pectin g galactomannan nd normal diet.found that the highest and lowest levels of firmicutes were in nd and g mice respectively whereas the highest and lowest levels of bacteroidetes were in g and nd mice respectively.

prevotella was found to improve glucose metabolism in mice and in the present study elevated levels of prevotella were observed in mice fed with g c.the present results showed that enrichment with g led to reduced body weight gain in mice.

after 3 wk on the diets the mice were fasted for 12 h and subjected to an oral glucose tolerance test ogtt.table 1diet compositionbht butylated hydroxytoluene diet composition per kg fibers were fenugreek galactomannan or citrus pectin.before the ogtt the mice were weighed and marked and were given d- glucose 3 gkg body weight by gavage.

glucose levels were monitored at 0 30 60 and 120 min after glucose loading a glucometer was used to measure glucose levels in blood drawn from the tail tip.after 4 wk on experimental diets the mice were fasted for 12 h their body weights were recorded and they were sacrificed in random order by isoflurane overdose.

c57 bl6 j mice were chosen as the model to compare a condition of normal healthy fiber con- sumption with one of very low fiber consumption.

please see the table below that elaborates on the diet composition.effect of fiber diets on lipid profiletotal cholesterol in serum was significantly lower p  0.05 in fiber fed groups compared to nd.

the jmp 7.0.2 and jmp 11 pro software suites sas institute cary nc usa were used for the analyses.resultsbody weight epididymal adipose tissue weight and glucose toleranceenrichment of nd with 15 ww of cp or g fiber led to reduced weight gain.

it isquite possible that the soluble dietary fiber we used in this study improved the glucose tolerance test and processes involved in glucose metabolism via bile salts.

mice n 14 31 were randomly assigned to one of three groups that were fed a normal diet nd or one of two fiber-enriched diets designated cp and g respectively.

the nd was based on the ain-93 m diet with a few modi- fications the fiber-enriched diets were based on nd with the addition of 15 ww of either fenugreek g or cp .

by week 2 and continuing into week 3 the average weight of mice consuming the fiber-enriched diets was lower than that of nd-treated mice a. on the day of sac- rifice epididymal adipose tissue was removed and weighed.

male c57 bl6 j mice ages 7 to 8 wk were fed a normal diet nd supplemented with 15 ww galactomannan g or citrus pectin cp.

