the concentrations of propionic acid were significantly higher in the prevotella-type than that in the non-pre- votella-type despite that the chain length was short or long c. as for butyric acid production prevotella-type showed a high level just in the long chain imos fermentation comparing to the non-pre- votella-type d. however the fermentation of the short chain imos caused a lower level of acetic acids in prevotella-type than that in the non-prevotella-type b. comprehensively the prevotella- type exhibited a stronger production of the total scfas a than the non-prevotella-type in the long chain imos fermentation.

for lactobacillus no significant difference was found between the two groups b which was consistent with the lefse result that lactobacillus was not identified as the unique genus of either prevotella-type or non- prevotella-type.effects of short and long chain imos on microbiome community compositionas mentioned in 3.2 the degradation of the short chain imos were observed in all eleven fecal samples while the long chain imos was significantly degraded by only three samples suggesting the effect of dp of imos on the utilization by fecal bacteria.

in general the short chain inulin-like fructans are rapidly fer- mented in the left side of colon while long chain fructans are associated with slow fermentation rates often allowing for activity to reach the right side colon or the rectum .isomaltooligosaccharides imos are natural oligosaccharidesthat are found in various fermented foods such as miso sake and soy sauce .

s4b the band profiles from the short chain imos were clustered together but separated from the band profiles of the long chain imos suggesting that the dp of oligosaccharides significantly affected the bacterial community structures.for the analysis of sequencing data alpha diversity of the fermentation microbiome was compared among the five imos fig.

six of eleven fecal samples showed their microbiome communities of the short chain imos clustered together after fermentation which were separated from those cultured with the long chain imos.

eleven fecal slurries belonging to three enterotypes including the bacteroides- prevotella- and mixed-type exhibited different degradation rates for long chain imos dp 7 to 16. in contrast the degradation rates for short chain imos dp 2 to 6 were not affected by enterotypes.

for example long chain inulin-like fructans can ameliorate type i diabetes symptoms in mice in contrast to short chain fruc- tans .

the copy number of bifido- bacterium amplicons was 5.81 x 107 at 0.2 ngml and 5.99 x 109 at 20 ngml for lactobacillus .short chain fatty acids analysisthe concentration of short chain fatty acids scfas was deter- mined by gas chromatography gc .

therefore imo-h2 and imo-h3 were regarded as the long chain imos dp 8e16 while imo-s imo-b and imo-h1 were considered as the short chain imos dp less than 7.based on the tlc analysis of each individual fig.

however such difference was not shown in the short chain imos b. these results suggested the bacteria in prevotella-type had a stronger utilization of the long chain imos than the non-prevotella-type.the production of scfas was also influenced by fecal enterotypesthe production of scfas in fecal samples and the fermented cul- tures were measured by gc.

these results suggested that the bacteria in the prevotella-type metabolized imos in a manner differently from the bacteria of the non-prevotella- type especially for the long chain imos.modulation of microbiome community by imos was depended on the enterotypesin order to understand the influence of imo chain length on thefig.

b the average degradation rate of the short chain imos by prevotella-type p and non-prevotella-type non-p. c the average degradation rate of the long chain imos by prevotella-type p and non- prevotella-type non-p. data are shown as mean - sem and analyzed by anova-lsd tests p  0.05 p  0.01.210q.

short chain fatty acids scfas - such as acetate propionate and butyrate - are the major metabolites generated during colonic carbohydrate fermentation.

therefore imos with varied dp values may exert different impacts on human colonic microbiota.in this study the effects of five imo substrates with different chain lengths on the human fecal microbiome were studied by in vitro batch fermentation.

in addition to different fermentation properties the microbiome compositions with different enter- otypes were significantly altered when incubated with imos that had long or short chain length in polymerization as determined by both pcr-dgge profiling analysis and 16s rrna gene sequencing.materials and methodsfecal sample originsa total of eleven healthy human volunteers living in hangzhou china ranging from 22 to 50 years old were recruited for the study.

