conversely in the bacteroides-dominated microbiota the three fibers enriched different otus leading to different levels and ratios of scfas.this is the first report showing how individual differences in two enterotypes cause distinctly different responses to dietary fiber.

this implies an enterotype-dependent beneficial effect of dietary fibers.these markedly different scfa outcomes from fiber fermentation in the prevotella and bacteroides entero- types relate to different preference and capacity of species to ferment different fiber structures.

here we show that the dominance of prevotella versus bacteroides in fecal innocula identified into two different enterotypes differentially impacts in vitro fermentation profiles of scfas from fibers with different chemical structures.

microbiota dominated by different fiber-utilizing bacteria may impact host health by way of producing different amounts and profiles of scfas from the same carbohydrate substrates.human gut microbiota varies among individuals and the concept of enterotypes has been used to stratify peo- ple's microbiota compositions.

these scfas are biologically important in amount and proportion.since scfas are biologically active compounds produced by fiber-utilizing bacteria it becomes an interesting question whether different enterotypes produce different amounts and profiles of scfas from the same fiber sub- strates.

two microbiota one high in prevotella and the other high in bacteroides were used to study how different enterotypes utilize dietary fibers of different chemical structures.1state key laboratory of microbial metabolism and ministry of education key laboratory of systems biomedicine school of life sciences and biotechnology shanghai jiao tong university shanghai 200240 china.

overall the two microbiota fermented the carbohydrate structures differently to produce different amounts and ratios of the scfas.we then examined the changes in the microbiomes during fermentation of the different fibers in the two enterotypes.

openreceived 10 october 2016accepted 21 april 2017 published xx xx xxxxfiber-utilizing capacity varies in prevotella- versus bacteroides- dominated gut microbiotatingting chen2 wenmin long1 chenhong zhang1 shuang liu1 liping zhao1  bruce r. hamaker 12the gut microbiota of individuals are dominated by different fiber-utilizing bacteria which ferment dietary fiber into short chain fatty acids scfas known to be important for human health.

different enterotypes are defined by their dominant bacteria and microbiota dominated by prevotella and bacteroides genera have been observed .

if true this could be a way how different enterotypes are involved in host health.

b clustering of microbiota from d1 and d2 together with 54 healthy subjects shows their alignment with prevotella and bacteroides enterotypes respectively.results and discussionpreviously we found that structurally different dietary fibers within the arabinoxylan fiber class were utilized differently using in vitro human fecal fermentation.

these two enterotypes were then used to study how the two microbiota communities utilized the different fibers.

conversely the d2 bacteroides enterotype microbi- ota showed differential fermentation of cax and sax with different scfa outcomes.

different letters indicate significant differences in scfas among fiber treatments at the same time point a  0.05.surprisingly fos which is generally recognized as a fast fermenting fiber generated significantly less total scfas than sax and cax by 24 h with little production of acetate.the prevotella-dominated microbiota produced 2-3 times more propionate than the bacteroides-dominated microbiota.

a pcoa plot of jackknifed weighted unifrac distance within the bacteria community shift under different treatments and times.

