We used a four-part approach including high-throughput sequencing of bacterial and fungal communities cultivation of fungi Bd challenge assays and experimental additions of probiotic to Midwife Toads Altyes obstetricans to examine the overlapping roles of bacterial and fungal microbiota in pathogen defense in captive bred poison arrow frogs Dendrobates sp.. Our results revealed that cutaneous fungal taxa differed from environmental microbiota across three species and a subspecies of Dendrobates spp.

Our results suggest that probiotic strategies against amphibian fungal pathogens should in addition to bacterial probiotics focus on host-associated and environmental fungi such as Penicillium and members of the families Chaetomiaceae and Lasiosphaeriaceae.Keywords disease ecology mycobiome microbiome chytrid ITS 16S rRNA amphibian fungal diseaseINTRODUCTIONAmphibians are globally at risk from a range of factors not least of which are emerging fungal pathogens Wake and Vrendenburg 2008 Fisher et al.

Further we hypothesized that Bd inhibitory fungal taxa would comprise a significantly greater proportion as percentage of reads of the cutaneous microbiome than bacteria on three species and one subspecies of poison arrow frogs Dendrobates spp.. To test these hypotheses we partnered with the New England Aquarium to examine the microbiota of captive poison arrow frogs including Dendrobates auratus D. leucomelas and two subspecies of D. tinctorius as well as their tank environment using high-throughput sequencing of bacterial and fungal communities and cultivation of fungal taxa.

Our study examined the role of host- associated bacterial and fungal communities in immune defense against chytridiomycosis in three species of poison arrow frogs Dendrobates spp.. We observed species-specific bacterial and fungal communities associated with each frog that was distinct from their enclosure.

These data support our second hypothesis however an explicit test of fungal probiotics in Bd infected amphibians is needed to fully elucidate the role of fungi in the amphibian immune response.In addition to fungal taxa with the ability to inhibit the growth of Bd zoospores we identified several n  20 from environment 19 from frog taxa capable of facilitating the growth of Bd zoospores.

Analysis of bacterial and fungal communities revealed species-specific fungal and bacterial communities suggesting the microbial communities may play an important role in host defense in particular for D. leucomelas.

Instead fungal probiotics may produce antimicrobial metabolites while inducing host defenses that target foreign fungi including Bd.CONCLUSIONSWe show species-specific bacterial and fungal communities associated with Dendrobates frogs that are distinct from their environment.

82494.doi 1 Department of Marine and Environmental Sciences Northeastern University Nahant MA United States 2 Department of Biology University of Massachusetts Boston Boston MA United States 3 Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas Madrid Spain 4 Department of Biology Population and Conservation Biology Program Texas State University San Marcos TX United States 5 Anderson Cabot Center for Ocean Life New England Aquarium Boston MA United States 6 School for the Environment University of Massachusetts Boston Boston MA United StatesEmerging infectious diseases caused by fungal taxa are increasing and are placing a substantial burden on economies and ecosystems worldwide.

Of the emerging fungal diseases chytridomycosis caused by the fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis hereafter Bd is linked to global amphibian declines.

The abundance of cutaneous fungi contributed more to Bd defense 45 of the fungal community than did bacteria 10 and frog species harbored distinct inhibitory communities that were distinct from the environment.

