morphological identification  .number and overlap of bacterial species identified on money by the sequence-based experiments winter and summer vs. bacterial species cultured then sequenced from lb media culture 1 and culture 2. shaded area indicates species that were identified in all four experiments.discussionour work is the first metagenomic characterization of microbial diversity present on paper money circulating in new york city the financial capital of the world.

the assembled data identified far fewer bacterial taxa at the species level 2115 unique species with at least one hit than the unassembled data 7580 unique spe- cies with at least one hit however the difference shrinks 385 vs. 512 after abundance filter- ing to 2 0.005 81 of total bacterial reads in each method with 270 species 43.1 overlapping .

our sequence-based experiments generally identified a greater diversity of bacterial species than the culture-based experiments probably because dna sequencing techniques can detect organisms that cannot be cultured the culture results only represent those bacteria capable of growing on lb-agar plates at 37c and the dif- ferent environmental conditions at the time of each collection could influence the type and amount of microbes present on the bills.the present study aimed solely to characterize the microbial diversity found on 1 bills and we had no way of assessing transitory vs. resident taxa aside from the obvious metazoan species.

characterizing the microbial composition of surfaces is an important first step to understand the interactions between humans and microorganisms but also serves as a means to monitor and potentially control the spread of diseases.recent research into the microbial aspect of human interaction with our surroundings has profoundly changed our understanding of how we impact environmental microbial communi- ties.

the most abundant bacterial species in both datasets was propionibacter- ium acnes one of the most common among the skin microbial community however it was much more abundant in summer 83 than in winter 51. other human-associated taxa among the most abundant species at both time points include a common skin bacterium staphylococcus epidermis several oral taxa such as micrococcus luteus streptococcus oralis and rothia r. mucilaginosa dentocariosa  gut and oral commensal veillonella parvula  vaginally associated corynebacterium aurimucosum  and acinetobacter baumannii an opportunistic human pathogen .

for bacterial reads the opposite was true with winter bills yielding a higher proportion than summer .money microbial communities are largely derived from human skin and oral commensalsa total of 397 bacterial species representing more than 20 bacterial phyla were identified across aggregate samples though nearly all sequences at least 97 of each bacterial dataset belonged to just three phyla the actinobacteria firmicutes and proteobacteria taxa that are representa- tive of human skin communities and have previously been shown to dominate other urban surfaces including the subways of boston  and new york  and atm keypads in new york .

as expected based on the distribution of the blast results  many more bacterial taxa were present in winter 385 species total than in summer 149 species total with 137 found in both.similar bacteria dominated the two time points including eleven of the most abundant bac- terial species .

after abundance filtering we identified 102 bacterial species in culture 1 and 212 species in culture 2 far less than the winter sequence-based characterization 385 species.

those species marked with a  indicate species present in the most abundant of both time points.we compared our monetary microbiome results to those of four previous culture-based studies from 1975-2009 which used morphological techniques to identify bacterial species.

understanding these microbial profiles is especially relevant to public health as money could potentially mediate interpersonal transfer of microbes.introductionmetagenomics has revolutionized the analysis of complex microbial communities by enabling the identification of unculturable microbes in environmental samples  .

each of us has a specific microbial fingerprint that is transmissible through exhalation or physical contact potentially transferring millions of microbial cells per event .

microbial communities within homes  and offices  are highly similar to those of their occupants and surfaces frequently contacted by human hands such as keyboards  cell phones  atm buttons  and subway holds  have microbial communities largely composed of skin taxa.

surface type frequency of use the identity of the interacting individuals and bioge- ography also influence surface microbial communities -.paper money offers an attractive window into human-driven microbial community diver- sity due to the high frequency of manual currency exchange in commerce food service the sex trade and travel--activities that are likely to strongly influence the types of organisms present.

these studies though limited have established that microbial contamination of paper currency is widespread and that money represents an important human-microbe interface.we designed a series of pilot experiments to answer several questions regarding the diver- sity of microbial communities on circulating paper currency in new york city.

the higher occurrence of these species on money in summer could reflect a seasonal increase in these activities many of which take place outdoors during warmer months while bills collected in winter show higher levels of common indoor fungi.although the majority of sequences identified were eukaryotic our 1 bill microbiome also included more than twenty bacterial phyla across aggregate samples with the majority of sequences representing actinobacteria firmicutes and proteobacteria phyla that dominate comparison of bacteria identified in this study proportional abundance of each species to those cultured in four previous studies pub- lished during 1975-2009.bold numbers indicate a proportional abundance 2 0.005 bold taxa have 2 0.005 in all four datasets.used to represent nonpathogenic cornynebacteria.the microbiomes of human skin  and oral cavities .

