knowing the composition of the intestinal microbiota of p. adspersus is the first step toward exploring the proper management of this species as well as toward the development of probiotics and functional foods based on their requirements.keywords microbiota next-generation sequencing ngs microbiome flounder paralichthysintroductionour current knowledge of gut microbiota composition and microbiota-host interactions in fish remains limited.

the present study compared the intestinal microbiota of p. adspersus obtained from different origins wild and aquaculture using ngs to obtain a high-resolution map of the microbiota allowing detection of significant differences in the microbiota composition and also in the predicted functions of these microbes which may have consequences for health and nutrition.

knowledge of microbiota may help to improve the cultivation of this species however few comparative studies have evaluated the intestinal microbiota composition in farmed versus wild fishes.

similar to mammals fish also harbor gut microbiota which may be akey aspect of the modulation of the host innate immune system  .despite the substantial roles that intestinal microbiota play in host metabolism immunity and health maintenance the composition and structure of bacterial communities within the fish intestinal ecosystem have not been extensivelyexplored  .

as has been observed in many animal systems this factor might influence the microbiota composition and their metabolic functions    .our results highlight the difference in the microbiota composition between wild and reared fish from the phylum levelto the genus level.

8271. doi the intestinal microbiota is involved in a wide range of biological processes that benefit the host including providing nutrition and modulating the immune system.

the comparison between wild and aquaculture specimens revealed important differences in the composition of the microbiota.

furthermore in both cases predicted functions metabolic pathways indicated that those microbiota might provide beneficial effects for the host but wild flounder showed more noteworthy pathways epadha scfa biotin.

our results highlight the differences in the microbiota composition between wild and reared fish.

furthermore these authors also identified a significant association between intestinal microbiota composition and fish taxonomy.

this suggests potential co- evolution of fish and their gut microbiota raising the possibility that fish were the first to evolve symbioses resembling those found in gut-fermenting mammals.meanwhile aquaculture has become one of the fastest- growing animal production sectors in the world.

for example there are no studies describing the intestinal microbiota of p. adspersus.

however the microbiota of the related flatfish p. olivaceus which is raised in korea has been examined under wild and aquaculture conditions using a culture-dependent approach they found that proteobacteria were dominant in both conditions  .the development of culture-independent methods is providing new ways to study microbial communities in their natural environments overcoming the limitations of the culture-dependent approach.

for example high-throughput sequencing technologies have been very efficient tools for providing a more complete view of the microbial communities inhabiting organisms reared in aquaculture systems       and have been pivotal in facilitating the discovery of gut microbiota biodiversity  .

however few comparative studies have evaluated the intestinal microbiota composition in farmed versus wild fishes reports are only available for salmo salar   gadus morhua    and p. olivaceus  .

