the mean average recovery of a. suum l4 in pigs fed cp was 4163 - 908 mean - se lgg  cp was 6388 - 1393 placebo control was 4072 - 888 and lgg was 2700 - 589. pairwise mean comparisons indicated a significant increase p  0.01 in a. suum l4 in pigs treated with lgg  cp compared to pigs fed lgg figure .figure 1. ascaris suum fourth-stage larvae l4 from intestinal luminal contents 17 days post-inoculation.

this study specifically examined the systemic and local response to a suum in young pigs fed a corn- alfalfa- and soy-based diet supplemented with either cp lgg lgg  cp or a vehicle-equivalent maltodextrin-fiber control for 4.5 weeks before inoculation with infective a. suum eggs.materials and methodsdietary supplementslactobacillus rhamnosus lgg and a high flavanol-rich cp powder acticoa were kindly provided by christian hansen hoersholm denmark and barry-callebaut lebbeke belgium respectively.

we studied the infection of pigs with the common intestinal parasite ascaris suum a. suum because it is a zoonotic organism and related to a. lumbricoides the most prevalent species of worm parasite in humans worldwide .

after 4.5 weeks on the diets pigs were orally inoculated with infective a. suum eggs 1 x 104 and then continued on the diet treatment until the end of week 7. the acquisition and preparation of infective a. suum eggs oral inoculation management of pigs and recovery of fourth-stage larvae l4 from the intestines were as previously described .

no other differences in anti-ascaris specific igm igg or igg1 isotype were detected in the serum or ileal content supernatants data not shown however there was a significant inverse correlation between serum igg1 r  -0.39 p  0.02 anti-ascaris antibody and a. suum l4 counts with a negative but non-significant correlation for serum igg2 and ileal igg r  -0.33 p  0.06 antibody responses and a. suum l4 counts.figure 5. anti-ascaris igg2 antibody response.

the anti-ascaris igg2 antibody response was measured using a. suum proteins extracted from isolated third and fourth stage larvae and serum obtained 10 days post-inoculation with infective a. suum eggs.

our results showed that pigs fed lgg and infected with a. suum had reduced levels of il-13 a key cytokine regulating allergic responses to parasitic infection eotaxin 3 ccl26 one of the three related chemokines that specifically activates ccr3 receptor in eosinophils and eosinophil peroxidase epx suggesting an inhibition of eosinophil recruitment and function in tbln draining the lungs of a. suum infected pigs.

in future studies evaluating diet effects on advanced larval stages or adult a. suum after longer periods of feeding may prove more relevant to the biology and epidemiology of this infection in pigs and by extension humans.the role of antibody in protective immunity against a. suum in pigs is unresolved as there is a weak association between antibody levels and development of worms several weeks after initial infection  and acquired resistance is associated with induction of igg1 and igm rather than igg2 antibodies .

in our study the number of a. suum l4 were inversely correlated with the serum igg1 r  -0.39 p  0.02 serum igg2 r  -0.33 p  0.06 and ileal fluid igg r  -0.33 p  0.06 antibody response to a. suum larvae products suggesting some type of humoral immune protection .

different letters denote differences among treatments after anova p  0.05.abundance of lactobacillus rhamnosus in fecesthe abundance of lactobacillus rhamnosus significantly increased in fecal samples from pigs fed lgg compared to the control pigs at weeks 4 and 7 p  0.05 and in pigs fed lgg  cp at week 7. lgg abundance appeared not to be affected by feeding cp or by infection with a. suum figure .control cocoa lggcocoa  lggfigure 2. bacterial lgg abundance in feces of pigs fed different diets.

in this study pigs fed lgg and infected with a. suum had a reduced expression of epx ccl26 and il-13 p  0.05 with no change in gene expression of these three genes when pigs were fed lgg  cp or cp alone.

no differences in tlr2 tlr4 and tlr9 gene expression were observed data not shown.antibody response to ascaris suumthe serum igg2 antibody response to a. suum larval antigens was reduced in pigs fed lgg  cp compared to those fed cp alone p  0.03 figure .

reinhard k. iniguez a. araujo a. are ascaris lumbricoides and ascaris suum a single species parasit vectors 2012 5 42.  dawson h.d.

2015 211 306-311.  frontera e. carron a. serrano f.j. roepstorff a. reina d. navarrete i. specific systemic igg1 igg2 and igm responses in pigs immunized with infective eggs or selected antigens of ascaris suum.

in our model the demonstrated prebiotic effect of cp on endogenous pig lactobacillus species  was also tested on exogenous lactobacillus rhamnosus lgg that was fed to pigs infected with a. suum.

