Briefly mice were randomly allocated into four groups 15 animalsgroup a pair-fed PF with corn oil CO group PFCO mice were fed modified Lieber- DeCarli CO liquid diets containing isocaloric maltose dex- trin as CO control b alcohol-fed AF with CO group AFCO mice were fed ethanol-containing modified Lieber-DeCarli CO liquid diets c PF with flaxseed oil FO group PFFO mice were fed modified Lieber- DeCarli FO liquid diets containing isocaloric maltose dex- trin as FO control d AF with FO group AFFO mice were fed ethanol-containing modified Lieber-DeCarli FO liquid diets.

Clinical studies reported that a low levels of n-3PUFAs in serum and liver tissue is a common charac- teristic of ALD patients  Dietary FO prevented against acute alcoholic hepatic steatosis via ameliorating lipid homeostasis at adipose tissue-liver axis in mice However the impact of dietary FO on inflammation and gut micorbiota in chronic ALD remains unknown.In the present study we assessed effects of dietary FO on attenuation of ALD and associated mechanisms in mice.

However these AST and ALT eleva- tions in AFCO group were effectively suppressed by diet- ary FO administration in AFFO group 185.9 - 13.3 vs. 109.7 - 7.2 104.8 - 11.4 vs. 75.2 - 6.1 Table .Dietary FO attenuated hepatic histopathological injury and reduced plasma LPS levelsAccording to HE staining for liver in diverse groups hep- atic fatty change necrosis and inflammation were serious in chronic alcohol feeding group AFCO whereas long- term dietary FO distinctly alleviated the alcohol-induced hepatic histopathological injury Fig.

dem- onstrating that dietary FO possessed ability to attenuated LPS generation from Gram-negative pathogenic bacteria.Dietary FO reduced plasma inflammatory cytokine levels in ALDAfter chronic ethanol feeding we found obvious elevated plasma TNF-a IL-1b IL-6 and IL-10 in AFCO and AF FO groups compared with these cytokines in pair-fed group Fig.

However the impact of dietary FO on chronic alcohol consumption remains unknown.Methods In this study we assessed possible effects of dietary FO on attenuation of ALD and associatedmechanisms in mice.

Firstly mice were randomly allocated into four groups pair-fed PF with corn oil COgroup PFCO alcohol-fed AF with CO group AFCO PF with FO group PFFO AF with FO group AFFO.Each group was fed modified Lieber-DeCarli liquid diets containing isocaloric maltose dextrin a control or alcohol with corn oil and flaxseed oil respectively.

Amelioration of these parameters as well as liver injury via HE staining indietary FO supplementation in ALD demonstrated that dietary FO can effectively benefit for the protection against ALD.

Furthermore dietary FO in ethanol consumption group induced a significant reduction in Proteobacteria andPorphyromonadaceae compared with AFCO group.Conclusion Dietary FO ameliorates alcoholic liver disease via anti-inflammation and modulating gut microbiota thus can potentially serve as an inexpensive interventions for the prevention and treatment of ALD.Keywords Flaxseed oil ALD Anti-inflammation Gut microbiota Correspondence 1College of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology Beijing Forestry University Qinghua Donglu No35 Haidian District Beijing 100083 ChinaFull list of author information is available at the end of the articlec The Authors.

The proportion of Proteobacteria in AF FO group was significantly lower than that in AFCO group 0.074 - 0.009 vs. 0.117 - 0.003 P  0.0001 or PFFO group 0.074 - 0.009 vs. 0.124 - 0.009 P  0.0001.Taken together our data revealed that under this experi- mental condition a combination of ethanol and dietary FO AFFO had a major effect on Proteobacteria but with limited effects on Bacteriodetes and Firmicutes.At genus level we found Porphyromonadaceae was the most prevalent genus in the control groups PFCO and PFFO and obviously reduced in dietary alcohol ad- ministration groups P  0.0001 Fig.

Dietary FO efficiently improved the final BW in ALD compared with AFCO indicating that FO may positively affect nutrients absorption and efficiency of calorie utilization in gastrointestinal tract in ALD.

