although the exposure of oletf rats to met obviously decreased both the serum and fecal endotoxin level figures 5de only fecal endotoxin showed statistically significant result p  0.05.combination of fl and met shifted the structure and composition of gut microbiotato profile the effect of fl and flmet on gut microbialstructure and composition of oletf rats 16s rrna gene sequencing of the stool samples was performed.

collectively these results indicate that the gut microbial composition was differentially modulated in oletf rats in response to the treatment with met and flmet.disease biomarkers and gut microbiotathe heatmap analyses assessed the association between the disease biomarkers and gut microbiota figure 8. otu 337724 otu 987 otu 6943 and otu 4053 were significantly negatively associated and otu 1944 and otu 350242 were significantly positively associated with body weight liver weight liver tg and liver tc.

fl and met in combination exerts a synergistic effect on the improvement of hepatosteatosis and insulin sensitivity in oletf rats and modulates gut microbiota in association with the effect.keywords flos lonicera metformin metabolic syndrome gut microbiota hepatosteatosisintroductionmetabolic diseases are of major concerns in public health policy as they are associated with a broad spectrum of disease and complications including cardiovascular disease cvd type 2 diabetes t2d hyperlipidemia and cancer zhang et al.

2014. an imbalance in the ratio of gut microbiota contributes to the onset and development of obesity which is driven by a number of factors including promotion of energy harvest from diet activation of systemic inflammation and increase of fat deposition bajzer and seeley 2006 tsai and coyle 2009. the fermentation of undigested carbohydrates by gut microbiota primarily produces acetate propionate butyrate and lactate which are the members of short chain fatty acids scfas cani and knauf 2016. scfas modulate the host metabolism through several mechanisms hur and lee 2015. for example the signaling of scfas through g protein-coupled receptor 41 gpr41 on enteroendocrine cells induces secretion of peptide yy pyy that inhibits gut motility augments intestinal transit rate and decreases the harvest of energy from the diet.

82271.doi the gut microbiota is important in energy contribution metabolism and immune modulation and compositional disruption of the gut microbiota population is closely associated with chronic metabolic diseases like type 2 diabetes t2d and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease nafld.

2014 we evaluated whether there is a synergic effect of met and fl in otsuka long-evans tokushima fatty oletf rats an animal model of genetic obesity t2d and nafld and if so the intrinsic molecular mechanisms and the role of gut microbiota.materials and methodspreparation of fl extractdried fl flowers in powdered form were procured from the medical supply store of dongguk university international hospital goyang republic of korea.

the flavonoid content of fl analyzed by aluminum chloride reaction method was 109.3 u gmg.combination of fl and met treatment reduced the liver weight improved hepatic histology and suppressed hepatic lipid deposition in oletf ratsalthough the body weight of oletf rats did not change significantly in response to the treatment with fl and met combination flmet figure 1a both the absolute and relative weights of liver of the animals in flmet group butnot in met group were significantly lower compared to oletf rats figures 1bc.as expected he histological staining revealed the normal structural integrity of liver in leto group and hepatic steatosis arrows in oletf group figure 1d.

however the hepatic lipid deposition in oletf rats was reduced remarkably in response to the treatment with both met and flmet groups.combination of fl and met reduced serum and hepatic cholesterol and increased fecal cholesterolthe serum tc ldl-c levels and the liver tc content decreased significantly in oletf rats upon treatment with flmet but not met figures 2acd.

treatment of oletf rats with both fl and fl met reduced the expression of hepatic hmgcoa reductase.combination of fl and met prevented insulin resistance and improved glucose tolerancewe performed the intraperitoneal insulin tolerance test ipitt and ogtt oral glucose tolerance test in the oletf rats to investigate the effects of met or flmet.

otu 3543 otu 6943 and otu 4053 were significantly negatively correlated and otu 433676 otu 356144 and otu 5387 were significantly positively correlated with the serum insulin level figure 8.prediction of potential metabolic functions of gut microbiotawe inferred metagenome functional content using picrust which predicted several metabolic functions of the gut microbiota.

this is further supported by the biochemical studies revealing higher level of hepatic tc and tg in oletf rats compared to leto group.the histological and biochemical liver profiles revealed that treatment of oletf rats with fl and met in combination but not met alone improved hepatosteatosis.

2013. our findings are in alignment with a decline in hepatic expression of hmgcoa reductase the rate limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis in oletf rats in responseto flmet treatment.in the insulin and glucose tolerance tests as expected insulin sensitivity and glucose homeostasis were markedly improved in oletf rats following treatment with metformin.

2015. our results also demonstrated that an exposure of oletf rats to flmet combination but not met significantly reduced the hepatic content of mda agreeing with an antioxidant effect of fl against lipid peroxidation in the liver of dimethylnitrosamine-induced rats teng et al.

2015 a multifactorial condition encompassing genetic metabolicinflammatory and environmental factors abu-shanab and quigley 2010. although diet is a vital modulator of the gut microbiota host genetic factors are important contributors to the shaping of normal gut microbial population lynch et al.

this suggests that an exposure of oletf rats to met causes a modulation in the distribution of gut microbial population enhanced by co-treatment of the animals with fl.

