otus that were significantly correlated with low-disease samples were then tested as predictors of n. galeopsidis relative abundance and disease severity in a generalized linear model with a binomial family and logistic link function.resultsdisease progression and treatment effectivenessthe fungal isolate slurry treatment did not reduce disease severity in either plant species during either experimental round whereas the wild leaf slurry reduced disease severity inp.

individuals receiving traditionally isolated fungal treatments showed no improvement but those receiving applications of a simple leaf slurry containing an uncultured fungal community showed significant disease reduction to which we partially attribute an increase in the mycoparasitic pseudozyma aphidis.

the low-tech method of spraying plants with a slurry of leaves from healthy wild relatives containing many unculturedunculturable fungal taxa outperformed inoculations of fungal isolates suggesting that biodiversity was important for the functional relevance of the inoculated microbes.the leaf slurry treatment reduced disease severity in plants despite that the very pathogen we were trying to mitigate dominated the sequencing library.

we hypothesized that re-establishing endophyte communities within foliar tissues would increase disease resistance and improve out-planting success.we conducted experimental inoculations of fungi obtained from related healthy wild plants in the previous home range of p. kaalaensis and show that pathogen resistance can be conferred by establishing beneficial communities of endophytes in aboveground plant tissues in order to improve endangered plant survival in the wild.methodsexperimental design and overviewthe experiment tested the disease modification properties of fungal endophyte isolates and uncultured fungi from a slurry of surface-sterilized leaves obtained from wild healthy relative phyllostegia hirsuta.

high-throughput dna screening of fungal its1 rdna was used to track the leaf-associated fungal communities and evaluate the effectiveness of transplantation methods.

doi copyright2017 zahn and amend open accesssubjects conservation biology microbiology mycology plant sciencekeywords endangered plants microbiomes conservation methods fungal endophytes tropical biology plant pathogensintroductionso far foliar fungal endophytes have been found in every natural plant examined   .

only the its1 region of sequences determined to be fungal in origin.otus were clustered at 97 similarity from screened its1 sequences with the uclust algorithm  wrapped within the open-reference otu picking workflow of qiime version 1.9.1  and taxonomy was assigned against the dynamic unite fungal database  version 1.31.2016. the resultant otu table was then filtered in r version 3.3.3 to remove singletons and otus that occurred ina given sample at less than 0.1 of the abundance of the maximum read abundance to control for index bleed-over.

evidence suggests that naturally occurring fungal foliar endophytes partially determine disease severity in agricultural systems   tropical trees  and populus models  .

therefore endophytes may be most usefully thought of as modifiers of plant disease  andor insect herbivory   rather than as simply transitively ''non-pathogenic''.this perspective has led to many biocontrol efforts that with varied success seek to reduce disease severity by using beneficial foliar endophytes particularly in commercially important plants      .

here we examine how manipulating foliar endophytes modifies plant disease on critically endangered plants known to suffer from disease mortality demonstrating the potential for foliar endophytes to be used in conservation.phyllostegia kaalaensis lamiaceae is a plant endemic to the waianae mountain range on the island of o'ahu in hawai'i.

those associated with reduced disease severity with the indicspecies r package  on samples grouped by quartile values into bins of disease coverage measured as percent of leaf surface area infected.

galeopsidis otu relative abundance correlated strongly with increased disease severity in plants binomial glm p  0.0020 pseduo-r2  0.75. both disease severity andn.

galeopsidis arrived in hawai'i or whether it came with the original ancestor to modernphyllostegia species.the relative abundance of the mycoparasitic fungus p. aphidis is a plausible explanation for the decrease in disease severity since p. aphidis has previously been shown to beantagonistic against powdery mildews   and to reduce the incidence of plant disease .

this simple approach of wholesale transplantation of a microbiome conferred disease resistance to a plant on the brink of extinction and may be usefully applied to other plants.acknowledgementswe would like to gratefully acknowledge the us army for logistical support k kawelo m kier l weisenberger and v costello from us army garrison - hawai'i's o'ahu armynatural resources program oanrp for invaluable field and greenhouse assistance for their expertise in rare plant conservation and for providing the plants used in this study along with b sedlmayer for assisting with disease monitoring.

these fungicides negatively impact potentially beneficial fungal symbionts which may reduce plant defenses to pathogens once fungicide treatments are stopped.

