While food is one of the main influencing factors of the gut microbiome the microbiome in turn is an important influencing factor of body weight.

Changes in the composition of the gut microbiome occurred only one day after the new diet had reached the distal gut but exclusively in the group on the animal-based diet and the gut microbiome returned to its usual composi- tion two days after this diet ended.

DOI 10.1007s00787-017-0945-7Food matters how the microbiome and gut-brain interaction might impact the development and course of anorexia nervosaBeate Herpertz-Dahlmann1  Jochen Seitz1  John Baines2Received 25 July 2016  Accepted 10 January 2017  Published online 31 January 2017c The Authors 2017.

Mounting data indicate that the gut microbiome interacts with the central nervous system and the immune system by neuroendo- crine neurotransmitter neurotrophic and neuroinflamma- tory afferent and efferent pathways.

Moreover starvation has a substantial impact on the gut microbiome and diets used for re-nutrition based on animal products may support the growth of bacteria capable of triggering inflammation.

However it remains unclear whether these changes are primary in origin and thus a cause of the eating disorder or whether they appear during the illness as secondary effects.There is emerging evidence of important links between the gut microbiome and the CNS which might be depicted as a gut feeling for the brain  for a review see .

We supply our microbiota with food and they compensate us with important health benefits in relation to digestion growth and defence against pathogens  .We have recently learned that malnutrition and long- term dieting have a substantial and reproducible effect on the gut microbiome and its impact on the brain which is likely related to the development of psychopathology and psychiatric disorders .

There is growing evidence that the gut microbiome also plays an important role in the development and persistence of eating disorders especially AN .Among all age groups less than 50 of patients with AN fully recover  and the mortality risk is the high- est of all psychiatric disorders .

Nutritional medicine and microbiota-modulating strategies may be promising determinants of the healing process and outcome of AN.Communication pathways between the gut microbiome and the brainThe gut is the most heavily bacterially colonized area of the human body with greater bacterial numbers in the colon than in the upper intestine see above in addition to differences in composition between the bacteria in the gut lumen and those near the mucus layer .

One of the most important tasks of the gut microbiome is contribut- ing to the protection of the intestinal barrier which must prevent the passage of pathogenic microorganisms and toxic substances into systemic circulation.

