coli enterotoxigenic E. coli ETEC enteroinvasive E. coli enteroaggregative E. coli diffusely adherent E. coli adherent invasive E. coli and shiga toxin-producing enteroaggregative E. coli 1.

See discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at Article in Future Microbiology  December 2016DOI 10.2217fmb-2016-0101CITATIONS2READS1714 authors including 5 PUBLICATIONS 5 CITATIONS 57 PUBLICATIONS 980 CITATIONS Some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsAntagonistic effect of probiotics on ETEC Metodos rapidos de analisis y estudios de biodisponibilidad in vitro para una evaluacion mas certera de la exposicion a los metales toxicos presentes en los productos pesqueros ReviewFor reprint orders please contact Foodborne enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli from gut pathogenesis to new preventive strategies involving probioticsCharlene Roussel12 Adeline Sivignon3 Tom Van de Wiele2  Stephanie Blanquet-Diot1Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli ETEC are a major cause of traveler's diarrhea and infant mortality in developing countries.

Pathogenic E. coli associated with gastrointestinal illness have been divided into eight pathotypes based on their virulence profiles enteropathogenic E. coli enterohaemorrhagicE.

The authors have no other relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a finan- cial interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.No writing assistance was utilized in the production of this manuscript.exeCutive summAryeTeC physiopathologyEnterotoxigenic Escherichia coli ETEC are major food and water-borne pathogens responsible for cholera-like diarrhea.Main virulence traits of the pathogen are colonization factors mediating intestinal adhesion and production of enterotoxins.Modulation of eTeC survival  virulence in the human gutFew in vitro studies have addressed the influence of biotic and abiotic factors of the human gut on ETEC survival and virulence.ETEC may use a variety of gastrointestinal cues such as variations in pH bile short chain fatty acids concentrations or host hormones to modulate toxin and colonization factor expression.Current treatments  future prospects in the fight against eTeCTreatment of ETEC infections is essentially symptomatic and antibiotics should be used with caution due to the growing burden of antimicrobial resistance worldwide.Main alternative prophylactic treatments include vaccination and nutritional strategies.Probiotic-based strategies in the prevention of eTeC infectionsUse of probiotics is among the most promising preventive strategies in ETEC infections.In vitro and in vivo studies have shown the beneficial effects of probiotics mainly lactic acid bacteria against ETEC through immunodulation direct antagonism or exclusion.Most of these studies were carried out under piglet digestive conditions and remain merely descriptive.Dynamic human digestion models could be advantageously used to better describe the interactions between ETEC probiotics and human gut microbiota.ReferencesPapers of special note have been highlighted asof interest  of considerable interestClements A Young JC Constantinou N Frankel G. Infection strategies of enteric pathogenic Escherichia coli.

Effect of crowding stress and Escherichia coli K88 challenge in nursery pigs supplemented with anti-Escherichia coli K88 probiotics.

Competitive inhibition of adherence of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli enteropathogenic Escherichia coli and Clostridium difficile to intestinal epithelial cell line Lovo by purified adhesin of Bifidobacterium adolescentis 1027.

The potential of in vitro models simulating human digestion in elucidating probiotic mode of action will be discussed.First draft submitted 27 May 2016 Accepted for publication 30 September 2016Published online 16 December 2016BackgroundWhile Escherichia coli isolates form part of the endogenous microbiota of the human gut some strains have evolved pathogenic mechanisms to cause significant diarrheal and extraintestinal dis- eases in humans.

Within the 25 CFs identified seven are gener- ally more prevalent than others CFAI CF antigen and CS1 to CS6 coli surface anti- gen 15.

Nevertheless five acid resistance pathways have been described in E. coli among them the glutamate decarboxylase system AR2 is thought to offer the best protection below pH 3.

Physiopathology of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli infections.

