in brazil c. cumulans is considered a keystone spe- cies because it is the most abundant mound-building termite in savannas and their nests promote the colonization by other organisms .here we conduct for the first time a detailed study of the microbial communities associated to a termite exhibiting food storage behavior using illumina sequencing of the 16s and the internal transcribed spacer its regions of rdna genes to- gether with enzymatic assays and data collected in the field.first we evaluated food storage by c. cumulans in the field.

together with c. cumulans the selected species included another termite that stores food inside the nest.methodstermites and study sitecornitermes cumulans kollar 1982 procornitermes sp.

alberto arab 1 departamento de biologia instituto de biociencias universidade estadual paulista unesp rio claro sp brazil2 universidade positivo curitiba pr brazil3 laboratorio nacional de ciencia e tecnologia do bioetanol ctbe centro nacional de pesquisa em energia e materiais campinas sp brazil4 programa em processos tecnologicos e ambientais universidade de sorocaba uniso sorocaba sp brazil5 ccnh--center for natural sciences and humanities federal university of abc ufabc santo andre sp brazil6 instituto de ciencias da natureza universidade federal de alfenas alfenas mg brazil7 department of food technology school of food engineering university of campinas unicamp campinas sp brazilwith litter-feeding termites that do not display food storage behavior.keywords gut microbiota .

additionally the presence of stored food may be cyclic and further work will be needed to elucidate if nodules of c. cumulans are present seasonally or during high colony demand.although we did not observe the feeding behavior of c. cumulans under natural conditions the survival of workers in the laboratory was higher when food nodules were offered over other plant substrates costa-leonardo unpublished suggesting that c. cumulans may benefit from specific nutri- ents or chemicals that result from the alteration of stored plant material inside the nodules.

in some termite species plant material is usually stored in cells or chambers inside the nest  however workers of c. cumulans cut small pieces of plant litter and packed them with their feces against the internal nest walls forming peculiar nodules that resemble those reported for two nasutitermes species nasutitermitinae .

nocardioides actinobacteria was the most abun- dant genus in the food stored by c. cumulans and the nest walls of c. cumulans procornitermes sp.

actinobacteria was the most abundant phylum in nest walls of all termite species and in the food nodules of c. cumulans.

in order to verify whether the enzymatic ac- tivity is characteristic for c. cumulans we compared to pat- terns in other termite species that store and do not store food.

classification using the dictdb and warcup databases successfully assigned 100 and 97.7 of the bacterial and fungal reads at the phylum level decreasing with taxonomic depth tables s2 and s3.gut microbial assemblages of c. cumulans are represented by abundant spirochaetesand pleosporalesgut samples of workers and soldiers of c. cumulans yielded 23 bacterial phyla representing 98 families 130 genera and 1539 otus table s2.

33269. sampled termites included representatives specialized on grasslitter c. cumulans and velocitermes sp.

in order to determine whether the patterns observed in our assays are characteristic for c. cumulans we compared them to the patterns in termites that do velocitermes sp.

cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic activities of gut crude extracts varied signif- icantly among termite species including those that do not store food procornitermes sp.

c. cumulans is a har- vester termite and workers collect small pieces of living and dead grass to be stored inside the nest .

consequently storing plant material inside the nest walls could be advantageous over other termite species since the microbiota from the feces might supply the termites with anfig.

food nodules were evaluated following aoac  for moisture content method 925.09 proteins method 960.52 conversion factor 6.25 ash content method 92339 and lipids meth- od 945.16. fiber content was determined using the method of van soest .assays of cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic activities of worker guts and stored foodthe activity against cellulose and hemicellulose substrates was assayed using crude enzyme extracts from worker guts of c. cumulans procornitermes sp.

