there is rapid growth in the number of products that claim to affect the gut microbiota and benefit health.p ol i c y f oru mscience and regulationfood and microbiota in the fda regulatory frameworkhow should microbiota-directed foods be regulatedmicrobiota in ways that increase microbial production of a nutrient necessary for a healthy state would the mdf be consid- ered a food one way of distinguishing a conventional food from an mdf is that the former is not designed to specifically alter the properties of the microbiota whereas the latter is intentionally formulated with this goal in mind.

note that it is not the substance itself that underlies gras designation but rather its manner of use moreover there is noby jonathan m. green12michael j. barratt34 michael kinch5 jeffrey i. gordon34ew understanding of how our gut microbial communities microbiota transform dietary ingredients into metabolic products that affect hu- man biology is altering our defini- tions of the nutritional value of foods1 2. we are coming to appreciate how much formation of the gut microbiota dur- ing early postnatal life and the traits en- coded by its several million microbial genes microbiome are important determinants of healthy growth and of our metabolic physiologic immune and perhaps neuro- logic phenotypes 3 4. these advances are spawning efforts to develop foods that pro- mote healthy microbiota development dur- ing early postnatal life prevent the loss of microbial diversity associated with western diets and repair abnormalities associated with various disease states 5-8. but given the mechanisms by which such microbiota- directed foods mdfs may achieve their desired effects the existing u.s. regulatory framework presents challenges in determin- ing how mdfs should be classified.

growing appreciation of how the microbiota generates biomolecules that are not produced by any of our human cell lineages and that affect our health status is forcing us to evolve our con- cept of essential nutrients to include some of these microbial products 10 11. a micro- biota that cannot generate these products in adequate quantities may lead to disease and is thus a target for reconfiguration by mdfs which can be defined as foods designed to al- ter properties of a microbiota.

although marketing a new product under the over-the-counter drug mono- graph system can be complex if an mdf is composed entirely of existing foodstuffs an abbreviated review process could focus on defining allowable claims and labeling.food and the microbiotato what extent will scientific advances in microbiota research affect public attitudes and governmental regulation how will regulatory decisions in turn affect scientific progress and society mdfs offer research opportunities to i delineate how microbialclassification schemes that are ultimately adopted will likely have broad societal implications for...products that target the microbiota.communities affect our biology ii deter- mine the extent to which it is possible to re- shape community functions through dietary interventions iii characterize the generaliz- ability of these effects and their short- and long-term safety and efficacy and iv catalyze efforts to identify bioactive natural products derived from gut microbiota.

an mdf could alter existing members of the consumer's mi- crobiota in a deliberate manner to affect the community's functional properties andor it may provide a substrate that is transformed by the microbiota to products necessary for a healthy state.potential classificationsif an mdf is designed primarily to provide nutritive value a key question is whether such nutritive value has to be provided di- rectly by the mdf for it to be classified as a conventional food by the fda i.e.

key questions in- clude whether the condition is recognized by the scientific community as having dis- tinctive nutritional requirements and the extent to which the definition of essential nutrient is expanded to include products of microbial metabolism.because dietary practices are known to al- ter microbiota configuration and metabolic output e.g.

classification schemes that are ultimately adopted will likely have broad societal im- plications for testing labeling branding and advertising of products that target the microbiota.

we can gain greaterunderstanding of how microbial commu- nities transform foods into products and which of these products are important con- tributors to normal healthy physiologic functions.

the challenge is to determine which of these microbiota-derived products are common features of a healthy human being how the term common is related to age gender and anthropologic features of a population what concentration range is as- sociated with a healthy state and whether deficiency of one or more of these products is causally linked to an unhealthy state.

in practice ingredients that target the microbiota may be present in or deliberately added to existing prod- ucts e.g.

when the dietary supplement health and education act of 1994 was signed into law knowledge of the role of the gut microbiota in health and disease was limited.

if an mdf is designed for a condition where in- sufficiency of a product of a microbiota--or chemicals generated by host cell metabolism of that product--is recognized to be causally related to the condition then that product might be considered an essential nutrient in the context of that condition.

if a consensus arises in the scientific commu- nity that the fda and lawmakers in congress should define the gut microbiota as a human organ from a regulatory perspective the question will arise as to whether a claim that a mdf promotes reconfiguration of commu- nity structure or function might lead to its classification as a drug.claiming health benefitsmdfs may have specific health benefits beyond the more generic claims permitted by the fda for foods e.g.

addressing these issues will necessitate well-controlled human studies with measure- ments of microbiota and host parameters.

van rheenen a. hanten and w. powderly for their support.10.1126science.aan083640 7 july 2017  vol 357 issue 6346sciencemag.org sciencefood and microbiota in the fda regulatory frameworkjonathan m. green michael j. barratt michael kinch and jeffrey i. gordonscience 357 6346 39-40.doi 10.1126science.aan0836article toolsrelated contentreferences this article cites 15 articles 3 of which you can access for free permissionsuse of this article is subject to the science print issn 0036-8075 online issn 1095-9203 is published by the american association for the advancement of science 1200 new york avenue nw washington dc 20005.

