however by expanding this approach with other '-omic' tech- nologies researchers can begin to map the complex network linking host regulatory pathways with the microbial adapta- tions that allow them to thrive in diverse host environments.outlook our multi-omics futurewhile it is clear that proteomics significantly contributes to our understanding of host-gut microbe interaction networks complementary -omic technologies represents one strategy for addressing some of the challenges that proteomics faces.

expert review of proteomicsissn 1478-9450 print 1744-8387 online journal homepage from mystery to mechanism can proteomics build systems-level understanding of our gut microbescarlos g. gonzalez lichao zhang  joshua e. eliasto cite this article carlos g. gonzalez lichao zhang  joshua e. elias 2017 from mystery to mechanism can proteomics build systems-level understanding of our gut microbes expert review of proteomics 146 473-476 doi 10.108014789450.2017.1311211to link to this article accepted author version posted online 24 mar 2017. published online 03 apr 2017.article views 738view crossmark datafull terms  conditions of access and use can be found at expert review of proteomics 2017 vol.

this suggests that a single assay targeting specific host proteins from stool could sensitively diagnose multiple emerging disease states in a widely applic- able manner.a second surprising finding from this work was the starkly different rates at which the host proteome and the microbiota respond to gut ecosystem perturbations.

6 473-476httpsdoi.org10.108014789450.2017.1311211editorialfrom mystery to mechanism can proteomics build systems-level understanding of our gut microbescarlos g. lichao zhang and joshua e. eliasdepartment of chemical and systems biology stanford school of medicine stanford university stanford ca usaarticle history received 21 september 2016 accepted 22 march 2017keywords gut microbiome microbiome host-microbe interaction proteomics metaproteomics multi-omicsintroductionresearch over the past decade has firmly established gut microbiota as a critical component of human health.

this immensely complex ecosystem is characterized by dynamic interactions between the host diet and the gut microbiota and contributes to metabolic disorders autoimmunity and cancer .

however a growing number of metaproteomic studies wherein mass spectra are searched against databases containing very large gut microbe commu- nities are beginning to reveal how the collective proteomic output of the gut microbiota and the host reflect this intricate and dynamic system .

one key finding from this work is that host protein signatures can sensitively distin- guish both slight and major microbiota perturbations.

antibiotic-induced perturba- tions of the intestinal microbiota alter host susceptibility to enteric infection.

rather linking genomic and metabolomic technologies with proteomics holds immense potential for building robust sys- tems-level analyses that can help elucidate the crosstalk between our microbiota and ourselves.acknowledgmentsthe authors would like to thank the past and current members of the elias lab for their initial input and feedback.disclosure statementthe authors have no relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with476c.

however the mechanisms shaping how these fluctuations occur and how these changes influence host physiology are poorly understood.

these studies demonstrate thatmetaproteomics can deliver mechanistic insight that would escape other 'omic' measurements and that connections between diet microbes and host biology can be readily dis- tilled from these kinds of data.as with the majority of prior gut microbiome research we note that stool specimens are well suited to this kind of metaproteomic research because they are collected noninva- sively and in relatively large quantities.

furthermore since stool contains pro- teins from the host microbes and diet researchers can simul- taneously measure all three domains from a single specimen.

sequential host and microbe protein isolation via differential centrifugation 33 represents one possible solution to this challenge.

one alter- native is to enrich for secreted host and microbe proteins by first removing the majority of fecal and intracellular microbe debris via differential centrifugation .

although exhaustive metaproteomic fecal characterization might capture a broader array of host and microbial biochem- ical activities we have found this extracellular fraction to sensitively and consistently track with subtle changes in the gut ecosystem.we recently utilized this approach in combination with 16s in the context of antibiotic-associated pathogen infection dynamics.

