margulis's reluctance to understand and integrate population-genetic theory within her evolutionary work is just as apparent in this evolutionary stream of holobiont work.but more generally even when radical evolutionary claims are not asserted and may not even have been considered there is still a tendency to talk about holobionts as cohesive physiological units.

as this conflation of physiological and evolutionary notions of holobiont was further elaborated in the 2000s it became entangled in many of mar- gulis's evolutionary commitments and indeed strengthened them.

i then evaluate what contemporary use says about margulis's legacy for microbiome research.c 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.introductionthere is more to the legacy of lynn margulis's 1967 'on the ori- gin of mitosing cells' than the ongoing accumulation of evidence for endosymbiosis.

by casting some philosophical light on her work i show how its problems have been inherited by contemporary researchers.my plan is to trace in a critical and normative way the devel- opment of margulis's basic claims as they grew from a somewhat open view in 1967 into a more dogmatic evolutionary and method- ological stance.

i will outline the vari- ety of problems associated with such claims and then assess the potential future of margulis's legacy for microbiome approaches to microbial communities and their evolution.margulis's basic ideas and how they developedin 1967 as margulis sagan outlined how diverse evidence pointed to the endosymbiotic origins of mitochondria and chloro- plasts she stated a general consequence 'if this theory endosym- biosis is correct all eukaryotic cells must be seen as multi- genomed systems' .

as she began to advocate strong evolutionary views that focused on fusions of organisms margulis insisted that darwin's view - especially as formulated by the mod- ern synthesis - was too limited.

be- cause of long-term symbiosis in some cases new forms appear' .but crucially for margulis's account of speciation and the scope of her evolutionary concepts she viewed the sudden symbio- genetic creation of species as exclusively a property of eukaryotic evolution not prokaryotic'the phenomenon of speciation even though the words species and speciation are used as if they meant the same phenomenon is a process only of eukaryotes.

a broad form of this reasoning has been taken up and given new life by contemporary holobiont researchers.margulis and microbiome researchthere are three main connections made by some of today's microbiome researchers - specifically the subgroup making holo- biont claims - to margulis's general ideas.

recall however that her unorthodox views about evolution targeted eukaryotes only and prokaryotes featured only where they contributed to eukaryote evolution.margulis's neologism of holobiont has taken on a new life in today's microbiome research.

although many researchers in this rapidly expanding area are content to use the words 'microbiota' and 'mi- crobiome' very casually a small subset of scientists are promoting the conceptually loaded terminology of holobionts host and mi- crobiota and hologenomes host genome and microbiome.4 this terminology both draws on and extends margulis's original use in ways that complicate her legacy.initially any evolutionary biologist in the 1990s who talked about holobionts also used the term in the more restricted sense margulis intended of specified evolutionarily persistent part- nerships - particularly vertically inherited endosymbioses e.g.

but notably this revival of the word by rohwer and other coral researchers did not argue that multispecies entities were evolutionary units of se- lection.for many of the rest of today's holobiont advocates however there is a rapid conceptual slide from microbes and host be- ing physiologically connected to microbes and host being a sin- gle evolving unit on which evolution can act.

significantly she did not extend her evolutionary thoughts on holobionts to all members of for example an animal gut community even though micro- biome analyses and their implications were well developed before her death in 2011. however just as for contemporary versions of the holobiont concept vertical inheritance of symbionts was appar- ently unnecessary to some of margulis's holobionts e.g.

i will return below to the heredity issues where they arise in microbiome research  after looking first at two other aspects of margulis's work and their connections to holobionts.holismalthough margulis seemed quite open to molecular sequence data in 1967 her attitude became narrower and more hostile as her evolutionary ideas crystallized.

this is a particular kind of holism often known as 'organicism' in which organism-level descriptions and explanations are seen as5 margulis's one mention of 'lamarckian' views of evolution in her 1967 pa- per appears to be agnostic  p. 269 but she became more pro- lamarckian as she elaborated her evolutionary framework.

but as ernst mayr observed in his foreword to margulis and sagan's 'ac- quiring genomes' endosymbiosis was not properly lamarckian because it was about 'the inheritance of incorporated parts of genomes' rather than lamarck's focus on 'inheritance of modified phenotypes' .

