similar to helicobacter pylori primary jc polyomavirus jcv infections normally occur during childhood and are persistent throughout the host's life 90. in humans and other animals possible jcv reservoirs include the kidneys bone marrow lymphoid organs and brain tissue 91-96. jc viruses are secreted for long periods of time in the urine and feces of infected individuals 97-100. because of this jcv transmission is believed to occur via the fecal-oral route and exposure to sewage-rivera-perez et al.page 4contaminated waters 101 102. parent-child or transmission between family members is also common 103 104. for these reasons microbial source tracking mst methods previously proposed jcv as an indicator of human fecal contamination in water reservoirs 105 106. however the possibility of other routes of transmission still remains unclear including trans-placental transmission during pregnancy 107. jcv strains do not seem to be commonly transmissible between populations with established infections 108 therefore individuals co-habiting the same region usually have latent infections of the same jcv genotypes whereas foreigners currently living in the area usually harbor a different strain from the established population.currently jcv genotypes infect over 80 of the human population worldwide 109. jcv is identified and genotyped by pcr amplification of its vp1 major capsid protein and t antigen genes 106 110. the distribution of the distinct jcv genotypes across the globe usually correlates with the presence of particular human populations in each geographical region.

in addition the geographic location of modern mtb strains also suggest human mtbc originated in africa as this is the only place where all six human mtbc major lineages have been detected 149.one question remains however was mtbc originally a human pathogen some have argued that mtbc was zoonotic long before its contact with humans acquiring its infectivity to humans posteriorly 159 168. interestingly forensic studies showed the mtbc strain detected in pre-columbian peruvians had higher similarity to strains infecting seals thanrivera-perez et al.page 7human-associated modern strains.

genetic assays determined high similarity between clinical strains associated to the outbreak and environmental strains from the outbreak site.in a way the adaptations l. pneumophila obtained during its co-evolution with its protozoan hosts accidentally played a key role in its recent host switch towards humans 205. this is because once it is inside the human body l. pneumophila is now capable of infecting its host's macrophages 206 207. this is mainly due to similarities between the microbe's environmental amoeba host and human macrophages 208 209. in addition the same genes are expressed by l. pneumophila during the infection of both host cells 210. also l. pneumophila protects itself by hijacking and replicating in membrane-bound compartments vesicles or vacuoles within both host cells for a review see isberg et al.

all of this could result in an increased prevalence of accidental pathogens in the form of emerging pathogens.keywordspaleomicrobiology pathogenicity symbiosispotential pathogens or ancient symbiontsin a world dominated by microbes our ancestors evolved alongside an outstandingly diverse ancient microbiota see figure 1 and figure box 1. symbiotic relationships between animals microbes and viruses have been observed as far back in animal evolution history as when hydras made their appearance and these interactions currently span across all types of life forms 1-3. it's clear that these ancient relationships have shaped the evolution of both the host and symbionts although the selective pressures governing these processes remain unclear 4-6.rivera-perez et al.page 2as holobionts see table 1 our associated microbiota allows us to broaden our intrinsic capabilities and increase our survival fitness 7. from our postnatal development 8 9 to post-mortem decomposition 10 11 the human body is thoroughly influenced by and most times highly dependent on its associated microbiome and virome see table 1. the beneficial effects a stable microbiota see table 1 has on host fitness has been extensively reviewed as these microbes often protect from disease 12-14 aid in food digestion 15- 17 increment nutrient absorption and vitamin production 18-21 propel the maturation of host immune systems 22-25 and organ development 26 among many other attributes.however an individual's microbiota is dynamic always adjusting in response to changes in the needs and lifestyle of the host environment through time 27-29. in this chapter we will discuss examples of environmental and nonpathogenic human-associated microbes believed to have accidentally undergone a shift in their life cycles towards pathogenicity as a response to changes induced by or within their human hosts.a helicobacter pylorimicrobial communities within holobionts are not stagnant and population shifts within these communities are common 35 36. however a portion of these changes in the microbiota abrupt or not could result in detrimental effects to the host when mutualisms go awry 37. helicobacter pylori is suspected to be one such case.

a strong phylogeographic association has always existed between h. pylori strains during their co- evolution alongside ancient and modern human populations 51 52. in fact modern helicobacter pylori strains are currently grouped into various geographical populations as a function of global human demographics and migrations 52. this strong phylogenetic association is mainly due to the bacterium's high genetic diversity as well as its mode of transmission 53. the high genomic diversity observed among h. pylori strains is associated to the bacterium's elevated mutation and recombination rates compared to other bacteria 54-57.as a result of these characteristics helicobacter pylori has long been a prime candidate to determine past migrations 58-63 possible admixture 64 and genetic ancestry 65 66 ofrivera-perez et al.page 3current and ancient cultures.

however the asymptomatic presence of ancestral asian strains in the guts of rural amerindian communities in the amazon and peru 62 65 suggests a previous mutually-tolerated or even possibly beneficial relationship with asian cultures that migrated to the area in prehistoric times 72-74. nevertheless this poses the question why the current shift to a more pathogenic dynamic with its host as rural populations have been associated to higher microbial diversity 75-77 one possibility could be linked to the evident loss of the microbial diversity associated to our human ancestors as a result of modernization cosmopolitan diets and exposure to antimicrobials fig.2 78-82. this is supported by studies showing that hyper acidity andor medical treatments that reduce the diversity in the gut microbiota allow h. pylori to germinate and proliferate without competition causing an array of chronic diseases such as gastric inflammation and peptic ulcer disease 44 45 83 84. in addition a decreased diversity in the individual human microbiome has been associated to higher probabilities of developing an array of diseases including obesity and diabetes 17 85 86. however only some helicobacter strains carry virulence genes commonly associated to the acquisition of pathogenicity islands including disease-linked genes such as caga and vaca which encode for cytotoxins 55 87-89.c jc virushuman polyomavirus jc virus is also believed to be an ancestral symbiont that has co- evolved with humans throughout history.

in fact the dominance of certain genotypes in distinct ethnic groups suggests an ancient association with these populations 111. although its limitations as a human marker have been argued 112 its strong host co-demography has also resulted in jcv to be considered a convenient historical and forensic biomarker to elucidate migrations genetic heritage and admixture in modern and ancient human populations figure 4 113-115. for instance the complex genetic history of african american communities in the united states is reflected with the presence of jcv genotypes associated to european types 1 and 4 and african regions type 3 in these individuals 116. similarly jcv genotypes present in native japanese communities cy and my are shared among subsequent japanese generations even those that migrated to other continents 104. interestingly the japanese my genotype has been detected among several south american amerindian cultures 117 and was presumably introduced to the region by pre-columbian ethnic groups from the pacific.

for instance herpes viruses which persist as latent infections ubiquitous in modern humans seem to give the host immunity towards the pathogens listeria monocytogenes and yersinia pestis 218. it is apparent that the disappearance of these ancestral human microbiota may have helped shift the 'mutualism-parasitism continuum' inducing in the human host a higher predisposal to several of today's widespread diseases.

human milk oligosaccharide consumption by intestinal microbiota human milk oligosaccharide consumption.

human milk glycomics and gut microbial genomics in infant feces shows correlation between human milk oligosaccharides and gut microbiota a proof-of-concept study.

quantification of human polyomaviruses jc virus and bk virus by taqman quantitative pcr and comparison to other water quality indicators in water and fecal samples quantification of human polyomaviruses jc virus and bk virus by taqman quantitative pcr and.

2013 gonzalez et al in preparation as well as the diversity of mycobacterium species commonly observed in the environment especially in water and soil for a review on this subject please see hruska  kaevska 2012. furthermore m. bovis and m. tuberculosis are capable of long-term survival in soil and also maintain their virulence throughout soil exposure 172. but if human mtbc was initially an environmental microbe how did it end up infecting humans one hypothesis for transmission is known as the pleistocene campfire theory and proposes that mtbc was acquired by ancient humans as a result of social interactions around wood fires 173. this possibility has a certain appeal as the inhalation of carcinogens present in wood smoke lowers our immunological defenses 174 175 and could have thus paved way for those first mtbc infections in humans.

this figure was taken from galagan nature reviews genetics 2014 and depicts a summary of the conclusions implied by current phylogenetic literature on the evolution of m. tuberculosis and other members of the mycobacterium tuberculosis complex 167.rivera-perez et al.page 25figure 6. legionella pneumophila infections in environmental amoebae and human macrophages electron micrographs of u937 macrophages a and a. polyphaga b infected by l. pneumophila strain aa100 at 24 h. image taken from molmeret et al aem 2005 213.rivera-perez et al.page 26table 1definition of terms used from microbiology and virology

university of puerto rico rio piedras campus san juan puerto rico 00930abstractas the human microbiome era continues there is an increasing awareness of our resident microbiota and its indispensable role in our increased fitness as holobionts.

however the host- microbe relationship is not so clearly defined for some human symbionts.

