2002. additionally as a calf ages the ketogenic capacity of the rumen must develop to that of a mature rumen as 60 to 80 of all vfas are absorbed across the rumen wall with 75 to 90 of absorbed butyrate being metabolized by the rumen epi- thelium allen 1997. however evidence suggests the rumen may not in fact be ready to assume this primary role of nutrient absorption and metabolism before 8 wk of age.

2012. microbial diversity within the rumen is asso- ciated with papillae length and rumen wall thickness as well as the weight of reticulo-rumen and finally animal growth as evidenced by animal models reared in sterile isolators and inoculated with more or less complex mix- tures of rumen bacteria forano et al.

2016. this together with an addi- tional activation of tgfbr1 and downstream genes of the tgfb1 intracellular pathway suggests that cellular proliferation recognition differentiation and apopto- sis in the rumen are regulated by tgfb1 during the weaning transition and indicates a facilitatory role of tgfb1 in rumen papillary differentiation when starter is consumed by the growing calf.chemical composition of the diet also seems tocontribute to shifts in regulatory mechanisms in the rumen for example naeem et al.

1966 and stimulate rumination and saliva flow to the rumen hodgson 1971. the main enzy- matic activities fibrolysis amylolysis proteolysis and ureolysis of ruminal microbiota have been observed in the rumen from 4 sahoo et al.

the majority of information available regarding the forestomach is limited to the rumen and thus unless otherwise stated in the figure specific descriptions of gene function or microbial composition in the forestomach relate solely to the rumen.

similarly bush 1988 found that calves were only at 40 the ketogenic rate of a mature ruminant at 30 d of age despite being weaned at 28 d of age underlining the limited capacity of the rumen to metabolize increases in vfas resulting from ruminal fermentation at such a young age.microbial colonization of the forestomachmicrobiological investigations of the calf's forestom- ach have focused primarily on the rumen leaving a paucity of information regarding the omasum and abomasum.

2013 observed that rumen microbiota was still significantly different potentially indicating that at 6 mo of age the microbiota undergoes developmental changes independently of diet.although increasing animal age and the introduction of solid feed are expected to promote rumen bacterial diversity and species richness with 45 to 47 bacterial genera belonging to 13 to 15 phyla being identified in 2- to 3-wk-old calves jami et al.

2014. for instance rumen epithelial expression of transforming growth factor b1 tgfb1 and estrogen related receptor a esrra transcrip- tional regulators of rumen epithelial development and energy metabolism are sensitive to butyrate connor et al.

2013. influence of sire breed on the in- terplay among rumen microbial populations inhabiting the rumen liquid of the progeny in beef cattle.

the effect of the addition of material to the rumen or its re- moval from the rumen on voluntary food intake.

a mechanistic understanding of such adaptations would also aid in the formulation of specific management regimens and provision of func- tional ingredients required to characterize and enhance gut function in young calves.key words forestomach rumen lower gut calfintroductionthe primary function of the gastrointestinal tract git is the digestion and absorption of nutrients.

continuing through the preweaning phase the majority of energy intake originates from milk or milk replacer mr which due to reflexive closure of the reticular groove bypasses the rumen and directly enters theabomasum baldwin et al.

2004. the role of the ab- omasum is often overshadowed by the rumen yet many digestive disorders and ailments during the preweaning phase are related to impaired abomasal function.

2002 marshall 2009 and over- flow of milk into the rumen termed ruminal drinking berends 2014 and reduced insulin sensitivity bach et al.

2016 suggesting that nutrient sensing likely occurs in lower gut neuroendocrine cells which transmit feedback that affects functionality of the fore- stomach namely the abomasum.most research on the transformation of the calf gitfocuses on rumen maturation which is believed to be initiated by the consumption of solid feed but argu- ably starts much earlier with solid food intake fueling a rapid increase in ruminal fermentation.

