2. specifically a 26.4 increase of observed taxa was detected as the bodies thawed from frozen 76.4 51.0 to partially thawed 87.9 58.9 to thawed 103.8 47.8. the mean  sd simpson diversity index demonstrated the greatest overall increase of 32.3 from frozen to thaw 0.519 0.294 frozen to 0.564 0.330 partially thawed to 0.768 0.173 thawed.

in both cases the brain was fixed for 3 weeks before cutting and rou- tine histologic samples were taken as well as for the other major organs.microbial sample collectionsmicrobial samples were aseptically collected using dna-free sterile cotton-tipped swabs at three time points during the thawing process when completely frozen and immediately after extraction from the freezer partially thawed c. 24 h postdiscov- ery and when fully thawed c. 48 h postdiscovery for autopsy.

faith's phylogenetic diversity metric increased by 19.9 as thaw occurred 6.76 3.68 frozen to 7.27 4.34 partially thawed to 8.44 3.84 thawed.

specifically the relative abundance of corynebacterium haemophilus fusobacterium and streptococcus increased by 79.7 75.0 46.8 and 31.0 respectively from frozen to thawed while the relative abundance of staphylococcus decreased 33.3 from frozen tothawed.

2016.which a body is discovered after long-term concealment or otherwise altered is one of the many challenges to the forensic pathologist performing the autopsy.a rapidly advancing field in forensics is the proposed use of the postmortem microbiome as an additional biological indicator of time andor circumstances of death 2-4. while several stud- ies have documented shifts in microbial community structure taxon composition and abundance from various locations and organs of a body during the decomposition process 5-9 much less is understood of how its previous condition e.g.

further the coefficient of variation for all metrics among body sites decreased as bodies thawed table s2 suggesting lower variability in the microbiomes among body sites with thaw.fig.

isme j 20126 3610-8.werner j koren o hugenholtz p desantis t walters w caporaso j et al.

nat methods 201310157-9.caporaso j kuczynski j stombaugh j bittinger k bushman f cost- ello e et al.

overall these data demonstrate that the postmortem human microbiome changes during the thawing process and have important foren- sic implications when bodies have been substantially altered modified and concealed after death.keywords forensic science forensic pathology postmortem microbiome pediatrics frozen concealmenta method to accurately estimate the postmortem interval pmi is sought after in forensic sciences.

during the thawing process there was an observed increase in otu richness and diversity as the bodies thawed fig.

2. the microbial communities of the ears eyes nares and buccal cavity all increased in observed otus from the frozen to the thawed status and the umbilicus plateaued in richness after the first 24 h of thaw partial while the rectum was the only sample area to have a decrease over this time period.

a mean  sem observed species otu richness estimate mean  sem simpson diversity estimate and the mean  sem faith's phylogenetic diversity estimate per sample at each collection time.b the mean  sem diversity metric estimates as previously discussed for panel a were also calculated for each sampling area on the bodies as the thaw- ing process occurred ears er nares n buccal b eyes ey rectum r and umbilicus u.there were also changes in microbial community composition throughout the thawing process fig.

3. actinobacteria fusobacteria and gammaproteobacteria increased by 68.2 49.3 and 49.5 respectively as the bodies thawed while firmicutes deceased by 18.3 and bacteriodetes remained constant during the thawing process.

lactobacillus became nearly undetectable at the partially thawed and thawed sampling times 98.3 decrease.

the buccal cavity had the highest species occurrence throughout the thawing process on average there were 12 species in the buccal cavity while the ears and nares had an average of seven species the rectum with six species and the eyes and umbilicus represented by five species.discussionthese data demonstrate that the postmortem human micro- biome changes during the thawing of frozen individuals in this case placed in a chest freezer and concealed for multiple years.fig.

