these obesity-related features can be experimentally reversed by treatment with antibiotics.dietary fructose modifies the gut microbiota phylum profile contributing to the metabolic phenotype in nafld.fructose provokes dysbiosis and fructose-induced hepatic alterations associated with nafld can be blunted by nitrogen supply.the synbiotic composed of l. fermentum cect5716 and fructooligosaccharides has beneficial effects in the pathogenesis of hfd-induced metabolic syndrome.the combined administration of probiotic l. curvatus hy7601 and l. plantarum ky1032 suppress the clinical characteristics of high-fructose-induced metabolic syndrome.the development of fructose-induced metabolic syndrome is correlated with variations in the gut content of specific bacterial taxa.crescenzo et al.

moreover the gut microbiota has an influence on several immune functions protects against pathogens and joins in the maturation of the gut barrier .our intestine is an individual immunological site where inter- action between microbiota and its host takes place .

these effects were reduced by both antimicrobial therapy and fecal treatments.fructose promotes alterations in the gut microbiota profile triggering inflammation and metabolic dysregulation in the gut liver and visceral white adipose tissue.

therefore the authors of respective studies concluded that manipulation of the gut bacteria interferes with liver injury and progression of nafld.to sum up the human gut is colonized by several strains of microbiota some with pro- and some with anti-inflammatory effects.

ratdiet enriched in fat and fructose the diet induced a marked i increase in a. muciniphila in cecal microbiota ii dramaticchanges in the colon mucosa-associated microbiota with a significant decrease in total bacteria clostridium leptum bacteroidesprevotella and lactobacillusleuconostoc iii decreased expression of claudin-1 and iv increased expression of tnf-a and tlr4.diets enriched in fructose reduce bacterial colonization lead to dysbiosis increase numbers of mucin-degrading bacteria and provoke inflammation in colon mucosa thereby supporting nafld progression.jegatheesan et al.

while a western- diet high in sucrose primarily promoted weight gain the intake of fructose especially in combination with a western diet caused barrier dysfunction accompanied with loss of mucus thicknessand endotoxin translocation .mice with a knockout in the f11r gene encoding the tight junction adhesion molecule a showed increased infiltration of intrahepatic macrophages elevated recruitment of inflammatory monocytes to the liver upregulation of tlrs and higher contenttable 1  fructose in the crosstalk with microbiota in the pathogenesis of nafld.species treatmentfindingsconclusionreferencemousediet high in saturated fatfructose and cholesterol for 8 weeksf11r-- mice with defects in intestinal epithelial permeability developed more severe steatohepatitis than control mice.diet-induced microbial dysbiosis contribute to the development of nash.rahman et al.

in particular we will refer about fructose-induced alterations of the tight junction proteins affecting the gut permeability leading to the translocation of bacteria and bacterial endotoxins into the blood circulation.keywords fructose gut-liver-axis inulin insulin resistance microbiota scfa probiotics prebioticsa dietary sugar in crosstalk with microbiota contributing to the development and progression of non-alcoholic liver disease.front.

in line a diet enriched in fructose not only induced nafld but also negatively affected the gut barrier and the microbiota leading to dysbiosis .in addition the microbiota itself was shown to contribute to the progression of liver disease and injury and diet-induced nafld resulted in dysbiosis and a strong decrease in microbial diversity .

therefore the authors suggested exercise as a factor for remodeling micro- biota and gut health which is negatively influenced by highfat diets preventing microbiota differentiation in response to exercise .conclusionnon-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a systemic disease induced and modulated by different metabolic components in which the liver is the main affected organ.

similarly diets high in sugar significantly decrease the microbial diversity in the gut after just 1 week .also another more recent study has shown that the consum- ing of a md promotes a gut flora enriched in polysaccharide- degrading microbes and end products of polysaccharide fermentation whereas in contrast a western diet leads to a community of microorganisms in the digestive tract that mostly contain proteolytic microbes and end products of protein and fat metabolism .during metabolism a part of the ingested food such as dietary fiber or resistant starch escapes digestion in the small intestine reaches the colon and is fermented by gut microbes which produce products such as short-chain fatty acids scfa trimethylamine ammonia and hydrogen sulfide which have beneficial impact on its host.

fructose especially when combined with a wsd results in pronounced gut barrier dysfunction.chronic intake of fructose andor fat lead to the development of nafld over time which is associated with an increased translocation of bacterial endotoxin.wagnerberger et al.

hepatic lipid accumulation was lowered by concomitant treatment with antibiotics.lactobacillus paracasei attenuates hepatic steatosis with m2-dominant kupffer cell polarization.fructose increase intestinal translocation of endotoxin leading to liver damage.sohn et al.

arterioscler thromb vasc biol 2008 2827-38. dovanni e bugianesi e kotronen a de minicis s yki-jarvinen h svegliati- baroni g. from the metabolic syndrome to nafld or vice versa dig liver dis 2010 42320-30. doxue l he j gao n lu x li m wu x et al.

in the respective model fructose consumption induced increased lymphocyte recruit- ment that was accompanied by higher inflammation indicated by the elevated mrna expression of tnf-a .fructose causes dysbiosisthe structure and biology of gut microbiota are highly individu- ally so that individuals can be identified simply on the basis of their microbiota fingerprint .

in a kind of circle the increase in body fat mass correlated with shifts in the gut microbiota and gut-brain communication possibly providing the basis for the pathogenesis of obesity .jegatheesan reported about alterations in colon mucosa- associated microbiota feeding a western diet high in fat and fructose for 8 weeks .

