.souza rf garrigue-antar l lei j yin j appel r vellucci vf zou tt zhou x wang s rhyu mg cymes k chan o park ws krasna mj greenwald bd cottrell j abraham jm simms l leggett b young j harpaz n reiss m meltzer sj.

to investigate tgf-13 signaling as it relates to colon cancer several mouse models have been developed  .of the tgf-13-signaling-deficient colon cancer mouse models the immunocompe- tent smad3 knockout smad3-- mouse is the model of choice  because the tgfb1-- rag2-- model is immunodeficient  the tgf13r2-deficient mouse is embryonic lethal  and the intestine-specific tgfbr2 knockout mouse must be combined with another colon tumor suppressor .

2007. tran- scriptional recapitulation and subversion of embryonic colon develop- ment by mouse colon tumor models and human colon cancer.

.kaiser s park yk franklin jl halberg rb yu m jessen wj freudenberg j chen x haigis k jegga ag kong s sakthivel b xu h reichling t azhar m boivin gp roberts rb bissahoyo ac gonzales f bloom gc eschrich s carter sl aronow je kleimeyer j kleimeyer m ramaswamy v settle sh boone b levy s graff jm doetschman t groden j dove wf threadgill dw yeatman tj coffey rj jr aronow bj.

overall60 of rna reads 63 million of 106 million rna reads map to these gold standard genomes.

to guide our functional analysis we examine the top 37 pathways  ranked by overall estimated rna counts where each pathway contains total rna counts above the pathway mean count all 140 pathway counts are available at .

fold changes are mapped to a blue-yellow color spectrum with bright yellow having the greatest increase in rna counts and bright blue having the greatest decrease in rna counts under the given condition versus control.

mirroring the rna count changesschaedleri abundance is increased in the h. hepaticus-only and combined effects by 1.89-fold and 1.31-fold respectively while there is a decrease in the smad3-- effect  see also .increased rna counts of lps genes in bacteria correlate significantly with host tlr gene expression.

the rna libraries were built with the illumina truseq rna kits.

for each gene threshold cycle ct values were normalized to corresponding 13-actin or glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gapdh and relative expression was determined by the 2-ddct method.correlation of bacterial rna count with mouse rna count.

it seems reasonable then that in the context of colon cancer decreased colonic levels of butyrate would promote cancer cell growth and stimulate inflammation.in the butyrate metabolism pathway we see a decrease in rna counts for butyrate kinase buk with a log2 fold chance fc of -1.1 in the combined effect  also see and .

here we report changes to microbial functions in a tgf-13 signaling-deficient colon cancer model.first a key butyrate gene buk is found to have reduced rna counts in the smad3-- and combined effects.

by qrt-pcr on colon mucosal epithelial mrna tlr4 and tlr2 are shown to be upregulated in all effects compared to control and this significantly correlates with increased rna counts of bacterial lpxc and lpxd.

this is the first report that links l. murinus to inflammation or colon cancer.in summary loss of smad3 is associated with changes in bacterial rna counts in the butyrate and polyamine synthesis pathways.

hiranonis and c. hylemonae andclostridium cluster xi c. sordelliican produce secondary bile acids such as deoxycholic acid doc that increasetumor burden in wild-type male b6.129pf2j mice acidovorax speciesassociated with increased risk for colon cancer and may act as a pathogen by increased metabolism of nitroaromatic compoundsenterotoxigenic bacteroides fragilisproduces a toxin that caused colitis and tumors in multiple intestinal neoplasiaminapc716- mice through an il-17-dependent pathwaystreptococcus gallolyticuspresent in approximately 20 to 50 of colon tumors compared to less than 5 ofnormal tissue in crc patients.

