for example cell sorting based on bacterial viability enables functional profiling of the active fraction of the microbiota and revealed the impact of xenobiotics on specific microbial taxa from the gut micro- biota.67 furthermore a novel computational approach to the analysis of transcriptomic data peak to trough ratio ptr allows for functional profiling of growth rates in a taxa-specific manner which is particularly useful when following microbial responses to a changing environment such as alterations in diet or during infection.68 finally functional metagenomics studies where fragments of metagenomic dna are expressed in a surrogate host to identify genes involved in a specific bacterial activity or function have enabled discovery of unannotated genes that confer specific functions69--for example the identification of bacterial factors that improve in vivo fitness in a competitive setting.70 one recent study employing a variation of functional metagenomics expressed predicted nonribosomal peptide synthetase nrps gene clusters identi- fied in a wide range of gut microbial genomes in genetically tractable model organisms e. coli and b. subtilis identified new molecules produced from expression of these gene clusters and confirmed their serine-protease inhibitory activity.71 this study demonstrated a new function of the microbiota that could be measured without reliance on prior annotation while the authors used bioinformatics and sequencing approaches to initially identify the nrps gene clusters the function was not identified in an annotated database could be agnostic to taxa labels each sequence expressed could be tied back to a single source strain and distantly related species could be identified through the same screen and is independent of bacterial abundance.

second we will introduce a complementary class of functional profiling approaches that we refer to as targeted functional profiling which is typified by a technique that we recently developed to profile microbial interactions with the immune system called iga-seq.8 importantly unlike omics approaches targeted functional profiling approaches generate new functional information annotations that can be assigned to specific microbial taxa.omics-based functional profilingunlike 16s rrna gene sequencing which reveals simply who is there systems-level omics approaches can begin to reveal what they are doing.

much discussion has focused on which of these adaptations preceded or necessi- tated the other--did the emergence of the adaptive immune system and its near-limitless diversity of antigen recognition enable subsequent diversification of the microbiota or did colonization with a complex microbial community necessitate the development of adaptive immunity also did the presence of a complex microbiota provide a selective advantage that enabled the rapid expansion of organisms possessing adaptive immu- nity76 functional classifications of the microbiota based on its interactions with the immune system may provide key insights into these questions.one intriguing possibility is that the microbiota acts as an extended immunological organ--not only fulfilling basic metabolic functions on behalf of the host which are present even in symbiotic relationships that predate the evolution of complex microbiotas but also taking on roles in host defense that the host is unable to perform.

this further illustrates how targeted functional profiling methods have the ability to generate new biological hypotheses and discover new roles of the microbiota in controlling host physiology.targeted functional profiling limitations and future applicationsthe above examples highlight the advantages of targeted functional profiling however these approaches are of course not without their own limitations.

n. fukuda s. murakami e. miyauchi s. hino k. atarashi s. onawa y. fujimura t. lockett j. m. clarke d. l. topping m. tomita s. hori o. ohara t. morita h. koseki j. kikuchi k. hondak.

for example distinct strains of the model symbiont bacteroides fragilis vary broadly in their effects on the host--some strains are tolerogenic due to the expression of the symbiosis factor polysaccharide a psa27 some inert bacteria with no clear effects on host physiology and some highly pathogenic due to the expression of b. fragilis toxin figure 1c.23because of the limitations of taxonomy-based classification systems for studying the microbiota alternative approaches to defining the community composition and its effects on the host are necessary.

similarly differences in the population distribution of a function over evolutionary time could provide insight into the co-evolution of the host and the microbiota and may lend further support to the notion that the selective unit in evolution is the hologenome--the combined genomic features encoded by the host genome and the microbiome.conclusionwe are growing to appreciate that the complexity and diversity of the microbiota can have wide-ranging and dramatic impacts on the host.

dozens of microbial functions with profound effects on host physiology have been identified and many more certainly remain to be discovered and described--a non- comprehensive list of recently described functions are outlined in table 1. the known impacts of microbiota functions on the host have been excellently reviewed elsewhere.2128-31 we will thus focus instead on how classifying the microbiota based on these functions provides unique insights into the effects of the microbiota on the host.functional classifications of the microbiotawe will discuss two classes of functional classifications figure 2b.

this includes functions induced by very rare features of gut microbes andor features that have detrimental effects on host fitness and are therefore negatively selected by the host importantly this category may include functions driven by pathobionts that play a causal role in driving or exacerbating disease.at this stage most functions have not been exhaustively measured in a sufficient number or individuals to accurately determine functional types.

using iga-seq we can focus in on the bacterial species in each individual that likely play a major role in shaping host immunity and susceptibility to inflammatory disease.in the first application of this approach we showed that iga responses to the microbiota in humans with inflammatory bowel disease marks putative disease-driving bacteria that uniquely confer disease susceptibility when transplanted into germfree mice thus iga-coating identifies putative causal organisms in ibd that would not have been identified simply using phylogenetic or omics approaches figure 1b.8 iga-seq has subsequently been used to identify microbes involved in both metabolic disease and extraintestinal manifestations of ibd iga-coating was used to identify organisms that contribute to the pathophysiology of severe malnutrition43 and pathogenic strains of escherichia coli present in a subset of crohn's disease patients that have a unique functional role in inducing th17 cells that may drive peripheral spondyloarthritis in these patients.66 these results suggest that iga-seq will be useful for identifying disease-modulating organisms in a variety of diseases and disorders.the example of iga-seq highlights several advantages of targeted functional profiling as discussed in section 7. iga-seq assigns function without reliance on prior annotation.

other phenotypes known or expected to be connected with host-microbe interactions such as spatial location within the gut and mucus association should also prove to be fruitful ground for high-throughput functional profiling of microbes.an ultimate goal of targeted functional profiling will be to group gut microbes into categories based on their effects on the host rather than their phylogeny or gene content.

omics approaches are generally unbiased high-throughput and high-content but depend entirely on prior annotations to assign functional activities in contrast targeted functional profiling approaches can create new functional assignments to specific genes or taxa but are generally restricted to examining a single function at a time.within a community through comparison to annotated data- bases.

dohnalova s. braverman s. rozin s. malitsky m. dori-bachashkuperman i. biton a. gertler a. harmelin h. shapirohalpern a. aharoni e. segal e. elinav nature 2016 540 544.r.

on the left expression of genes necessary for synthesis of polysaccharide a psa results in an immunoregulatory phenotype while on the right side expression of a toxin results in an inflammatory phenotype.the same bacterial species can have divergent effects on host physiology and disease susceptibility due to strain variation figure 1c.23 finally even the same strain of bacteria may exert distinct effects on the host depending on environment location or host-genetics--for example metabolic effects of fecal transplant into germ-free mice depend upon the recipient strain even when the same donor microbiota is used.24taken together these challenges suggest that a reevaluation of our current approaches to understanding the role of the microbiota in disease may be necessary moving forward.

however it has also become clear that inherent limitations of 16s rrna gene sequencing and taxonomic classifications in general may limit its ability to reveal the role of the microbiota in host physiology.taxonomic classifications of the microbiota are clearly useful for understanding intra- and inter-individual diversity in microbial composition.25 furthermore insofar as function correlates with taxonomy 16s rrna gene sequencing can also begin to reveal the role of particular microbes as certain effects on the host can vary predictably across taxonomic groups.26 however it has become increasingly clear that taxonomy alone is often insufficient to determine microbial function.

