however this decrease was not equivalent in all the strains and does not correlate either with growth ratio r -0.2857 p  0.344 or butyrate production r  -0.3357 p 0.2869.for the pbmc assay although all the strains tend to increase the production of il-10 cytokine only four strains two controls and two new isolates from this study were able to induce statistically significant increase production of this cytokine figure 6b the two most performing strains a2-165 and 4543 belong to the phylogroup ii group b. notably the il-10 production was correlated with both growth ratio r 0.6813 p  0.0103 and butyrate production r  -0.6923 p 0.0126. this different phenotype may suggest the presence of different molecules responsible of the anti-inflammatory effects in vitro.

2012. for example cncm i-4574 and cncm i-4543 strains were isolated from the same volunteer and present 99.8 of homology at 16s rrna level.interestingly the existence of strains that do not fit in any phylogroup as cncm i-4541 suggest that biodiversity of f. prausnitzii remains poorly known maybe since only few strains have been isolated.

in this study we described a protocol to isolate novel f. prausnitzii strains from feces of healthy volunteers as well as a deep molecular and metabolic characterization of these isolated strains.

among 17 identified f. prausnitzii strains only 10 were cultivable in the tested conditions table 1 with an od600 nm lower than 2 corresponding to 1 x 108 cfuml figure 2. there was no direct correlation between cfu counts and od600nm due to difference of viability between strains.

2014 have identify that more of the 50 of the f. prausnitzii strains that they isolated from fecal samples of healthy calves and piglets were resistant to tetracycline amikacin cefepime and cefoxitin comparing the mic values with the standard values determined by clsi for bacteroides fragilis atcc 25285. this fact highlights the need of more microbiological studies of antibiotic resistance in this species in order to determine a correct standard values forfaecalibacterium as well as the search for genes codifying for the most important resistance mechanisms for at least some of the antibiotics tested in this study.metabolic activitiesenzymatic activities detected by api-20a gallery system are reported in table 4. interestingly only one enzyme was detected and active in all the tested strains the beta-galactosidase.

for this reason in this study we have used a new procedure to isolate eos strains from feces that has enabled us to build a collection of f. prausnitzii strains.

altogether our results suggest that some f. prausnitzii strains could represent good candidates as next-generation probiotic.keywords probiotic commensal faecalibacterium molecular and metabolic characterization immune-modulatory propertiesintroductiondespite a large number of bacteria archaea viruses and unicellular eukaryotes inhabit the human body only a few bacterial genera bacteroides clostridium bifidobacterium and faecalibacterium predominate in the human gut microbiome schmidt 2013. nowadays it is recognized that faecalibacterium prausnitzii represents around 5 from the total fecal microbiota in healthy adults hold et al.

prausnitzii strain genomes should be established orand a metabolic comparison of several strains in the same culture conditions whether the phylogroups belong to genomovars or genomospecies.regarding safety concerns this study is the first step toward a better understanding of f. prausnitzii properties.

the viable isolates were stocked at -80c with 16 of glycerol.bacterial strains cell culture and growth conditionsthe reference strains a2-165 dsm 17677 duncan et al.

in this study we report a method for isolation of novel eos strains from human fecal samples on a complete medium figure 1. for this a negative screening was performed through the exposition of bacterial isolates to oxygen and in parallel these same strains were cultivated in an anaerobic chamber which maintains a consistent anaerobic environment to ensure proper conditions for optimal eos growth.

we identified between 28.1 and 67.7 of eos strains in the microbiota of healthy volunteers table 1. interestingly the proportion of eos strains in the human microbiota was positively and significantly correlated to the amount of fecal acetate r  0.7 p  0.0433 and tend to be correlated to the amount of fecal butyrate r the sequences from the literature barcenilla et al.

cultivability of strains was not linked to phylogroups affiliation figure 3. of note all strains have a similar morphotype with cell wall extensions like swellings figure 4 already described but with yet unknown function miquel et al.

in fact this species is a late but major commensal colonizer of the gut whichthe development of new probiotic products containing human isolated strains with beneficial properties for the host requires the development of new techniques in order to i isolate strains belonging to the major groups of the intestinal microbiota ii determinate their safe status and iii infer in their potential beneficial effects.

 edited byandrea gomez-zavaglia center for research and development in food cryotechnology cidca national council for scientific and technological researchconicet-argentina-capitalargentinareviewed by mireia lopez siles university of girona spainmaria de los angeles serradell conicet la plata cct and instituto de ciencias de la salud-unajargentinacorrespondence philippe langella  these authors have contributedequally to this work.specialty sectionthis article was submitted tofood microbiology a section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 03 april 2017accepted 16 june 2017published 30 june 2017citation martin r miquel s benevides l bridonneau c robert v hudault s chain f berteau o azevedo vchatel jm sokol h bermudez-humaran lg thomas m and langella p 2017 functional characterization of novel faecalibacterium prausnitzii strains isolated from healthy volunteers a step forward in the use off.

despite its importance in human health only few microbiological studies have been performed to isolate novel f. prausnitzii strains in order to better understand the biodiversity and physiological diversity of this beneficial commensal species.

