the reduction of fungal diversity in cd stool in comparison with cd mucosa demonstrates the disturbance of the fungal community in cd children and the finding of highest caecal diversity in a site- by-site analysis suggests an important role of the caecum in stabilis-ing fungal community.in conclusion this is the first report describing fungal dysbiosis in newly diagnosed treatment-naive children with crohn's disease.

to the best our knowledge such associations have not been reported in the literature which is mostly from adults or treated patients.faecal fungal associationas with mucosal fungal studies the significance of fungal cd associations depends on phylogenetic level.

significantly abundant cd-associated taxa included psathyrellaceae p  0.01 cortinariaceae p  0.04 psathyrella p  0.003 and gymnopilus p  0.03. monilinia was significantly depleted p  0.03 whereas other depleted taxa although not statistically significant included leotiomycetes p  0.06 helotiales p  0.08 and sclerotiniaceae p  0.07.there was no significant difference in fungal diversity between cd and controls.conclusions we report highly significant fungal dysbiosis in newly diagnosed treatment-naive cd children.

further studies with larger sample size and including functional analysis are needed to clarify the significance of the fungal community in the pathogenesis of cd.key words fungal dysbiosis crohn's disease saudi children.introductionmicrobial communities of the human gastrointestinal tract include varying proportions of bacteria fungi and viruses.

the scarcity of data on fungal microbiota in ibd and in particular the paediatric age group prompted this study to define the charac- teristics of fungal microbiota in newly diagnosed treatment-naive children with cd.patients and methodsthe study populationthe study sample included all saudi arab children with confirmed diagnosis of crohn's disease according to standard clinical-path- ological criteria.

the significance of this observation is not clear at present.description of highly significant fungal taxa association with cd in newly diagnosed and treatment-naive patients excludes the effect of chronicity and therapies on fungal population in our patients.

our aim was to define the characteristics of fungal microbiota in newly diagnosed treatment-naive children with crohn's disease cd.methods the children referred for colonoscopy were prospectively enrolled in the study at king khalid university hospital king saud university and al mofarreh polyclinics in riyadh.

fungal community disturbance is recognised in patients with crohn's dis- ease cd but most of the reports are based on samples obtained from adults at the time of surgery or from patients on therapy.

amplicon sequenc- ing service btefapr was performed at mr dna shallowater tx and used for fungal analysis.briefly the internal transcribed spacer primers its1f cttggtcatttagaggaagtaa and its2r gctgcgttcttcatcgatgc were used to evaluate the microbial ecology of swabs on the illumina miseq with methods based upon the btefapr.

a total of 78 samples tissue and stool from patients and controls were analysed.association analysiscomparison of fungal abundance between normal and inflamed mucosa in cd children is shown in  displaying the top three species with the most differing abundances between nor- mal and inflamed mucosa.

shows detailed comparison of fungal community abundance between mucosa cd and controls of varying abundance and significance according to phylogenetic level.

significantly elevated taxa in cd stools included cortinariaceae p  0.02 hymenochaete p  0.03 and gymnopilus p  0.02. although hymenochaetacea family was more abundant in cd stools statistical significance was not reached p  0.06 the most significantly depleted genus was monilinia p  0.03. other depleted taxa in cd stools although not statistically significant included leotiomycetes p  0.08 and helotiales p  0.2. illustrates the pattern of change in abundance of themain phylogenetic taxa grouped according to the direction of change in cd mucosa and stools increased or decreased in relation to controls.summarises fungal cd associations in mucosa panel a and stool panel b indicating that all taxa increased in cd mucosa and stool belong to the basidiomycota phyla and all those depleted belong to ascomycota.the dual hierarchal dendrograms presented in supplementary figure 1 available as supplementary data at ecco-jcc online displays the data for the predominant genera with clustering related to different groups suggesting no appreciable difference in genera between samples from normal and inflamed mucosa in cd children panel a cd mucosa and controls panel b or cd stool and con- trols panel c.table 1. demographic and clinical characteristics of crohn's disease cd children and controls.l1 ileal4not applicablel2 colonic0not applicablel3 ileocolonic11not applicable cd behaviour at presentationdiversity analysisalpha diversity a measure of genera richness number of genera was evaluated by the shannon index.

the non-parametric multi dimensional scaling nmds was applied to visualise the distances between categories in  illustrating the distance between cd mucosa and control samples panel a and cd stool and control samples panel b. the nmds indicates that the separation between mucosa and stool samples is much larger than the difference between cd and control samples which essen- tially overlap panel c.discussiongut microbiota is dominated by bacteria 99.1 and fungal com- munities account for about 0.02.despite the small population the role of fungi in the pathogenesis of ibd has been suggested based on animal and human studies.

the kingdom of saudi arabia is a developing country 'in transition' where the incidence of ibd is increasing.to our knowledge this is the first report on intestinal fungal microbiota in newly diagnosed treatment-naive cd in children in a non-western population.

the demographic profile of cd children shown in is similar to that of controls and the clinical profile of cd is similar to previous descriptions in the same population.mucosal fungal associationin view of the patchy pattern of cd lesions samples from normalb1 nonconstricturing nonpenetrating12not applicableand inflamed mucosa were obtained.

