mean antibacterial activity against bc sa and se and antifungal activity against fo and pc show non-significant difference between healthy and bld endophytic fungi whereas healthy date palm roots endophytes show significantly higher antimicrobial activities against ml and kp than bld derived root endophytes  .figure 6  a heat map of antifungal fungal isolates including rs fo and pc activity against fungal endophytes extracts from healthy and bld date palm roots.b venn diagram showing the distribution of endophytic fungal isolates extracts in relation to different fungal isolates the first number between brackets represents the number of isolates recovered from healthy roots and the second number represents that recovered from bld roots.

contribution ofsecondary metabolites to the bioactivities of endophytes is then screened using their etoac culture extracts.materials and methodsisolation of root fungal endophytes from healthy and bld date palm treesroots of healthy and bld adult date palm trees variety deglet ennour were collected from groves located in nefta oasis near to algerian-tunisian border and just at the north of chott djerid latitude 33 52 23.12 n longitude 7 52 39.54 e. numerous samples from roots and leaves were collected n 20. plant materials were transferred to the laboratory in sterile bags and stored at 4c until processing.

mean lipase activity of all isolates of healthy roots was not significantly different from mean lipase activity of bld isolates .in vitro antimicrobial antagonistic assay of date palm endophytesthe isolated date palm healthy and bld root endophytic fungi were examined against several pathogenic bacteria and phytopathogenic fungi to assess their antimicrobial activities.

mean antibacterial activity against s. aureus and antifungal activity against r. solani and p. catenulatum show non-significant difference between healthy and bld endophytic fungi whereas healthy date palm roots endophytes show significantly higher antimicrobial activities against ml than bld derived root endophytes   .antimicrobial assay of date palm endophyte extractsthe etoac extracts of 17 endophytic fungi were evaluated for their antibacterial and antifungal activity using agar-well diffusion method -.

shahriarinour m. wahab m. n. a. ariff a. b. rosfarizan m. and shuhaimi m. 2011. screening isolation and selection of cellulolytic fungi from oil palm empty fruit bunch fibre.

phytomedicine 16 609-616. zaid a. de wet p. f. djerbi m. and oihabi a. c. 2002. diseases and pests of date palm in date palm cltivation.

c venn diagram showing the distribution of endophytic isolates in plants roots the first number between brackets represents the number of isolates recovered from healthy roots and the second number represents that recovered from roots of lbd roots.activity of all isolates of healthy roots was not significantly different from mean protease activity of bld isolates .laccase activityhalf of isolated endophytic fungi from healthy and bld date palm roots showed positive results for laccase screening on solid medium .

therefore date palm endophytic fungi represent a hidden untapped arsenal of antibacterial and broad spectrum antifungal secondary metabolites and could be considered promising source of bioactive compounds with industrial and pharmaceutical applications.keywords endophytic fungi secondary metabolites brittle leaf disease antimicrobial activity date palm enzymesintroductionthe recent development of antimicrobial resistance by pathogenic microorganisms intimidates the current treatment and prevention of ever-increasing range of infections by bacteria and fungi and leads to new microorganisms that cannot be controlled by the drugs that referred to as superbugs  .

we therefore recommend strict control of salinity of irrigation water in the oasis in order to avoid stress of date palm trees.any speculation about putative involvement of g. candidum or t. punctulata in the development of bld in date palm trees needs additional investigations.

mycologia 93 875-886. correa m. j. c. nunes f. m. bitencourt h. r. borges f. c. guilhon g. m. s. p. arruda m. s. p. et al.

8 90-97. saleh f. a. and otaibi m. m. 2013. antibacterial activity of date palm phoenix dectylifera l. fruit at different ripening stages.

j. public health policy 37 1-19. santos i. p. silva l. c. n. silva m. v. araujo j. m. cavalcanti m. s. and lima v. l. m. 2015. antibacterial activity of endophytic fungi from leaves of indigofera suffruticosa miller fabaceae.

2016. analysis of the cultivable endophytic bacterial diversity in the date palm phoenix dactylifera l. and evaluation of its antagonistic potential against pathogenic fusarium species that cause date palm bayound disease.

7906. jrad m. fendri i. ben choba i. drira n. kadri a. and gharsallah n. 2014. enzymatic activities in different strains isolated from healthy and brittle leaf disease affected date palm leaves study of amylase production conditions.

mean proteasefigure 1  a maximum likelihood phylogenetic tree of fungal endophytes recovered from healthy and brittle leaf diseased bld diseased date palm roots.b fungal species composition in healthy and bld roots.

