while this field is still nascent emerging evidence suggests that dysbiotic fungal and bacterial microbiota interact to drive or exacerbate chronic airway inflammatory disease.keywords airway microbiome airway fungal microbiome mycobiome host-microbiome interactions bacterial- fungal interactions biofilmintroductionmicrobial communities associated with host mucosal surfaces play essential and diverse roles in biological processes from metabolism to immune regulation and homeostasis.

2015. in the airways similarities between allergic fungal rhinosinusitis and abpa illustrate the ability of fungi to act as antigens and invade the respiratory tract.studies on the fungal microbiome in crs and asthma suggest that fungal communities in the airways likely influence host health.

in return host inflammatory responses can shape the microbial community by supporting the growth of some microbes while inhibiting others kumamoto 2016. most studies of host-associated microbiota in health and disease have focused on the bacterial microbiota despite fungal diseases incurring a substantial infectious disease burden huffnagle and noverr 2013. because of this relatively little is known about the importance and function of the fungal microbiota mycobiota.

b-glucan interact with airway epithelial cells via surface receptors and can act as determinants of allergenicity or induce inflammation roy and klein 2013. in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis abpa structural abnormalities in the airway epithelium allow fungal spores to breach immune defenses and germinate into hyphae chaudhary and marr 2011. upon germination fungal spores secrete proteases which can disrupt epithelial barrier integrity chen et al.

the function and composition of these communities may shed light on the heterogeneity observed in crs.airway fungal microbiomewhile the bacterial communities in airway inflammatory disease have been more extensively studied fungal microbiota are still poorly characterized.

2014. a recent study using its gene sequencing found fungal presence in the sinuses of 63 of crs patients and the predominant fungal genus in this study was aspergillus zhao et al.

future studies examining paired upper and lower airway microbiota bacterial and fungal in individuals with crs and asthma are warranted.aspergillus fumigatus is often involved in the development of allergic fungal rhinosinusitis afrs specific subtype crs that accounts for an estimated 6-9 of all crs patients undergoing surgery schubert 2004. patients with afrs present with hyperplastic sinus disease characterized by chronic eosinophilic-lymphocytic inflammation and nasal polyps.

dectin-1 a pattern recognition receptor expressed by dendritic cells neutrophils and macrophages recognizes the fungal polysaccharide b-13 glucan motif found on fungal cell walls.

further studies are needed to elucidate the mechanisms for these responses and to determine whether fungal communities in other organs can influence allergic airway disease.future directionsthe evidence for the influence of dysbiotic fungal and bacterial microbiota interactions to drive or exacerbate chronic airwayinflammatory disease is compelling.

because fungal dysbiosis can have as great an effect on the host as bacterial dysbiosis we cannot overlook the contributions of these largely unexplored fungal communities in our search to understand the microbial mechanisms behind health and disease.author contributionsiz drafted and revised the manuscript.

16 433-448. doi gelber j. t. cope e. k. goldberg a. n. and pletcher s. d. 2016. evaluation of malassezia and common fungal pathogens in subtypes of han m. k. huang y. j. lipuma j. j. boushey h. a. boucher r. c. cooksonw.

doi huffnagle g. b. and noverr m. c. 2013. the emerging world of the fungal microbiome.

mycoses 58 167-172. doi kerr j. r. taylor g. w. rutman a. hoiby n. cole p. j. and wilson r. 1999. pseudomonas aeruginosa pyocyanin and 1-hydroxyphenazine inhibit fungal growth.

74 877-884. doi deshazo r. d. chapin k. and swain r. e. 1997. fungal sinusitis.

337 254-259. doi romano j. d. and kolter r. 2005. pseudomonas-saccharomyces interactions influence of fungal metabolism on bacterial physiology and survival.

