in our study gos restored the abundance of bifidobacteriaceae in patients with type 2 diabetes and to our knowledge this is the firstreport demonstrating the effectiveness of gos on the gut microbiota in patients with diabetes.however a 4-week intake of gos did not have a significant effect on lbp and glucose tolerance in this study.

beneficial microbes 2017 85 705-716galacto-oligosaccharides ameliorate dysbiotic bifidobacteriaceae decline in japanese patients with type 2 diabetesgonai13 a. shigehisa2 i. kigawa1 k. kurasaki1 o. chonan2 t. matsuki2 y. yoshida2 m. aida2 k. hamano1 and y. terauchi31department of diabetes and endocrinology kantoh rosai hospital 1-1 kizukisumiyoshi nakahara kawasaki kanagawa 211-8510 japan 2yakult central institute yakult honsha co. ltd. 5-11 izumi kunitachi tokyo 186-8650 japan 3department of endocrinology and metabolism graduate school of medicine yokohama city university 3-9 fukuura kanazawa yokohama kanagawa 236-0004 japan  these authors contributed equally to this workabstractreceived 15 december 2016  accepted 17 may 2017c 2017 wageningen academic publishersopen accessresearch articlegut microbiota affects the host's metabolism and it is suggested that there are differences in gut microbiota composition between patients with type 2 diabetes and healthy individuals.

in the present study we demonstrated that gos can ameliorate dysbiosis in patients with diabetes and continuous intake of gos may be a promising method for managing type 2 diabetes.keywords gut microbiota lipopolysaccharides metabolic endotoxemia prebioticsintroductiondiabetes is now a worldwide problem and one of its pathologies is insulin resistance caused by systemic low- grade inflammation.

2014. compositional differences in gut microbiota between healthy adults and patients with type 2 diabetes have been reported in human studies and gut microbiotas of patients with type 2 diabetes vary by race karlsson et al.

dendrograms indicate hierarchic structures by cluster analysis.it is known that gut dysbiosis is observed in patients with type 2 diabetes and recently growing numbers of investigations have reported the intestinal microbiota composition of patients with diabetes.

the intestinal microbiota of japanese patients with diabetes in our study was different from that of the female european patients in karlsson's study which might be due to differences in race residential area dietary habits and sequencing method.

all 30 control subjects were analysed without exclusion and of the 55 patients with diabetes 52 were analysed gos group n27 placebo group n25 three patients did not take syrup in compliance with the trial protocol.

secondly we tested whether gos ingestion alters gut microbiota and their metabolites in type 2 diabetes in a double-blind controlled trial.materials and methodsstudy subjectswe recruited 116 japanese outpatients with type 2 diabetes to measure their blood lps and lbp concentrations and then selected 55 patients diabetes group dmg who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria 1 age 20 years or 70 years 2 hba1c 10 3 malignancy 4 severe infection5 severe liver or renal dysfunction 6 treated with antibiotics 7 treated with a-glucosidase inhibitor agi.

furthermore to our knowledge this is the first report to comprehensively analyse gut microbiotas in addition to assessing their diversity and to evaluate the effects of gos on the metabolism and intestinal environment in japanese patients with diabetes.figure 3. correlations among clinical parameters and gut microbiota.

fourth this study had a small sample size.in conclusion the results of our study showed that consuming gos for 4 weeks restored bifidobacteriaceae abundance in the gut microbiota of patients with diabetes.

our future work should include a larger and longer interventional study of gos effects on metabolism and the gut microbiota in patients with diabetes.supplementary materialsupplementary material can be found online at .table s1.

2015. thus it is expected that gos might improve glycaemic control in patients with diabetes but the effects of gos on humans with type 2 diabetes have rarely been investigated.

here we focus on the important alterations of gut microbiota in the gos group table 4 figure 4. above all bifidobacteriaceae abundance was considerably increased by intake of gos compared with the baseline 35.2-23.4 vs 12.8-14.5  p0.05.

p0.05 gos group vs placebo group within before subjects or after subjects mann-whitney u test.table 4. gut ecosystem parameters of galacto-oligosaccharides gos and placebo groups.1in this regard we consider that continuous intake of gos might improve lbp and glucose tolerance.there are some limitations to this study.

however lps were not detected in any subject in this study suggesting that lps levels in japanese patients with diabetes might be lower than those of patients from western populations.

