s5.development of intestinal immune cells in the absence of sp-d. as changes in the composition of intestinal microbiota can affect the immune system 1 2 we next asked whether immune cell pop- ulations in the intestinal lamina propria are altered by the absence of sp-d. no overt change was observed in the frequencies of immune cells in the intestinal lamina propria of sftpd-- mice fig.

these findings describe a unique mechanism of interorgan regulation of intestinal immune homeostasis by sp-d with potential clinical impli- cations such as cholecystectomy.surfactant protein d  gut microbiota  gallbladder  colitis  glucocorticoidshe composition of the gut commensal microbiota reflects the coevolution of host and microorganisms to achieve intestinal homeostasis that is symbiotic or mutually beneficial 1 2. in this context local interactions between commensal microbiota and in- testinal cells are central to the regulation of the intestinal immune system 1 2. imbalances in the microbiota termed dysbiosis un- derlie the development andor aggravation of immune-related dis- eases even in distant organs from the gastrointestinal tract 1 2. given the importance of this connection to human health there has been much focus on the elucidation of the mechanisms by which thesymbiosis is maintained.one focus on this process has been the study of soluble im- munoregulatory molecules produced in the intestinal lumen by immune and epithelial cells that maintain intestinal immune ho- meostasis 1 3. however in this context little attention has been paid to the role of immunoregulatory molecules produced by dis- tant organs.

we show sp-d expression in the gallbladder epithelial cells and provide evidence that the gallbladder-produced sp-d secreted into the bile and delivered to the intestinal lumen is the major source of intestinal sp-d. our results also indicate that sp-d selectively affects populations of commensal bacterial species through its direct binding to the bacteria which interferes with their replication and causes a cascade of events that skew therepertoire of bacterial species in the intestine.indeed mice deficient in the sftpd gene sftpd-- mice show intestinal dysbiosis and sensitization to dextran sulfate sodium dss-induced colitis.

these data suggest that intestinal dysbiosis caused by the absence of sp-d selectively affects the development of intestinal tregs which are shown to be critical to the regulation of intestinal in- flammatory responses 12.susceptibility of the sp-d-deficient mice to experimental colitis.

although the side effect of cholecystectomy is thought to be modest significant change of intestinal microbiota is reported in patients treated with this procedure 26. therefore our study may have clinical implication on the pathogenesis of intestinal diseases possibly with therapeutic potential of sp-d in intestinal diseases.materials and methodsmice.

further cortico- sterone levels were also increased in the liver under conditions of intestinal inflammation but not within the gallbladder itself fig.

although it is speculative at this stage our study also suggests there is an additional immunoregulatory molecules in the bile involved in this process.the importance of sp-d as an interorgan mediator of immune homeostasis was underscored by intestinal dysbiosis in the sftpd-- mice fig.

during the course of our study on the role of the irf3 transcription factor in intestinal homeostasis 4 we observed the presence of surfactant protein d sp-d in the intestinal lumen.

1d indicating that gallbladder is the main source of sp-d found in the intestinal lumen.alteration of intestinal bacterial population by the absence of sp-d. since sp-d has been reported to play an important role in the elimination of pathogenic bacteria such as pseudomonas aeruginosa and staphylococcus aureus within the alveoli of the lungs 5 7 we asked if expression of sp-d affects populations of commensal bacteria in the intestine.

when we examined relative sftpd gene expression in various organs by quantitative rt-pcr qrt- pcr a notably high expression level of sftpd mrna was ob- served in the gallbladder compared with other digestive organs including the stomach intestines appendix liver and pancreas fig.

further sp-d protein expression was detected by im- munohistochemical staining in the gallbladder epithelium but not in lamina propria fig.

as shown in fig.

consistent with this bile duct ligation performed to inhibit bile flow into the intestine resulted in a marked reduction in sp-d protein levels in the fecal suspension fig.

to address this question we first per- formed a comparative microbiome analysis on feces from wild-type wt and sftpd-- mice.interestingly significant differences in the bacterial population and diversity were observed between wt and sftpd-- mice fig.

1e and fig.

