by 16s rdna sequencing and data analysis we found ge treatment can break the structural balance of gut microbiota increasing the abundance of desulfovibrio genus and mycoplasma genus as well as several rare genera.

gancao-gansui combination impacts gut microbiota diversity and related metabolic functionsjingao yu jianming guo weiwei tao pei liu erxin shang zhenhua zhu xiuhe fan juan shen yongqing hua kevin yue zhu yuping tang jin-ao duanjiangsu collaborative innovation center of chinese medicinal resources industrialization national and local collaborative engineering center of chinese medicinal resources industrialization and formulae innovative medicine jiangsu key laboratory for high technology research of tcm formulae nanjing university of chinese medicine nanjing 210023 chinaa r t i c l e i n f o chemical compounds studied in this articleglycyrrhizic acid pubchem cid 16213698keywords licorice euphorbia kansui incompatibility gut microbiota metabolisma b s t r a c t ethnopharmacological relevance the theory of eighteen incompatible medicaments eim in traditional chinese medicine tcm is the most representative case of herbal-herbal interactions.

recently tcm researches have been increasingly focused on the mechanisms of the interplay between herbs and gut microbiota .our study will provide a new insight in gut microbiota to better understand the disadvantages induced by improper herbal combina- tion.

s1.gu-eb combination induces gut microbiota dysbiosiswe re-consider that gu-eb combination may cause more adverse effect to the gut microbiota.

p  0.05 compared to control group  p  0.05 geh compared to ebh or gel compared to ebl group.disturbance verified the change of desulfovibrio genus induced by ge.gu-eb combination changes the metabolic genes in metagenomesmetagenomes of gut microbiota is the basis of metabolic function of microbiota.

fecal lipid metabolomics study was conducted by gc-ms analysis to confirm the change of metagenomes and mycoplasma abundance.results gancao-gansui combination did not exacerbate gi tract tissue or functional damage but caused gut microbiota dysbiosis and increased some rare genus's abundance including desulfovibrio and mycoplasma.

mycoplasma genus pro- liferation and the metagenomes changes were both confirmed by metabolic profile analysis of fecal lipids especially cholesterol.conclusions gancao-gansui combination can impact the gut microbiota diversity and related metabolic correspondence to jiangsu collaborative innovation center of chinese medicinal resources industrialization nanjing university of chinese medicine 138 xianlin road nanjing 210023 jiangsu province china.e-mail addresses j. yu j. guo w. tao p. liu e. shang z. zhu x. fan j. shen y. hua k.y.

liner dis- criminant analysis between control and guh group a control and ebh group b or between control and geh group c in lefse analysis based on genus abundance n  6. the genus with lda score of more than 2 and a significant value less than 0.01 were picked out as showed.

the wide spread exposure of gu in the society makes it more urgent to study the interactions between gu and other herbals in gut microbiota.conclusionsgancao-gansui combination can impact the gut microbiota diversity and related metabolic functions such as lipids and h2s metabolic homeostasis.

microbiota profile between control and eb groups was clearly separated in binary jaccard distance a but was not separated in weighted unifrac distance b. ge was the most separated group from control group in both distances a b. since jaccard distance is based on type of bacteria species while weighted unifrac distance is based on sequence similarity and species abundance so it means that ge changed the microbial community more deeply than eb.

the gu-eb mixture were prepared by simply mixing gu extracts and eb extracts in the saline the concentrations of gu and eb in the mixture were kept the same as the gu or eb single suspension.plant name the plant names have been checked with on march 30rd 2017.animals and treatment procedureadult icr male mice weighting 18-22 g were kept in a temperature controlled environment 22 - 2 degc with 55 - 5 relative humidity with a 12-h 12-h light-dark cycle and fed with standard chow.

extended error bar plot was gen- erated in stamp software .resultsgu-eb combination does not exacerbate eb induced toxic effect on gi tractconsidering that gi tract irritation is the major toxicity of eb we assumed gu-eb combination could exacerbate eb induced intestinal damage.

s5.these data suggest that geh treatment can impact structural bal- ance of gut microbiota while guh or ebh single treatment has limited effect on the microbiota.

however little is known about the intestinal re- lated disadvantages caused by ge treatment since eb firstly irritate the gi tract after oral administration.gut microbiota has been proved to be part of our bodies the number of bacteria in the gut is about 1.3 times of total body cells  .

another simplification is that disease model has not been considered and the dose of gu and eb were designed according to the upper limit of the chinese pharmacopeia their dose ratio is 1 6.5. hence more research should be carried out considering more complicated situation of gu-eb combination.in this study from gut microbiota modulating aspect gu-eb in- compatibility was investigated.

