GAS6 is a key homeostatic immunological regulator of host-commensal interactions in the oral mucosaMaria Nassara Yaara Tabiba Tal Capuchaa Gabriel Mizrajia Tsipora Nira Meirav Pevsner-FischerbGili Zilberman-Schapirab Oded Heymanc Gabriel Nussbauma Herve Bercovierd Asaf Wilenskyc Eran ElinavbTal Burstyn-Cohena12 and Avi-Hai Hovava12aInstitute of Dental Sciences Faculty of Dental Medicine Hebrew University Jerusalem 91120 Israel bDepartment of Immunology Weizmann Institute of Science Rehovot 7610001 Israel cDepartment of Periodontology Faculty of Dental Medicine Hadassah Medical Center Jerusalem 91120 Israeland dDepartment of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics Faculty of Medicine Hebrew University Jerusalem 91120 IsraelEdited by Lora V. Hooper University of Texas Southwestern Dallas TX and approved December 7 2016 received for review September 6 2016The oral epithelium contributes to innate immunity and oral mucosal homeostasis which is critical for preventing local inflammation and the associated adverse systemic conditions.

1073pnas.1614926114-DCSupplemental.GAS6 in the oral epithelium is induced by oral microbiota and plays a critical role in maintaining immunological and microbial oral homeostasis.

We thus propose GAS6 as a key im- munological regulator of host-commensal interactions in the oral epithelium.oral mucosa  GAS6  TAM  homeostasis  microbiotahe stratified epithelium covering the oral mucosa is continu- ously challenged by an immense amount of diverse microor- ganisms some of which might be pathogenic.

Therefore the stratified oral epi- thelium not only forms a physical barrier to oral microorganisms but actively participates in inducing immunity thus providing an immunological barrier.

Nevertheless whereas much attention was given in recent years to study oral mucosal immunity in a setting of infection or immunization less attention was given to mech- anisms engaged by the oral mucosa to maintain homeostasis.

We first sampled bacteria using oral swabs from the oral cavity of individual age- and sex-matched Gas6-- and Gas6 littermates born and housed under identical conditions.

We further compared the load of oral an- aerobic bacteria in these mice by plating oral swab samples on blood agar under anaerobic conditions.

To test whether changes in the oral microbial load of Gas6-- mice affects bacterial diversity we performed a taxonomic analysis of the oral microbiota.

5C the absence of GAS6 led to a considerable shift in oral microbiota composition.Whereas the oral mucosa of Gas6 mice was mainly colonized by bacteria of the Firmicutes phylum Gas6-- mice contained three main phyla Firmicutes Proteobacteria and Bacteriodetes.

However whereas reconstitution of WT mice with BM of Gas6-- mice G-W had no impact on the load and diversity of oral micro-biota administration of WT BM cells into Gas6-- mice W-G resulted in a significant alteration of the oral microbiota.

