bead transit was tracked by x-ray imaging to monitor gastric emptying 4 h small intestine si transit 9 h and large intestine transit 12 h. plasma extracts were analyzed by lipid and hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography hilic and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry lc-ms. cecal microbial com- position was determined by illumina miseq 16s rrna amplicon sequencing and analysis using the qiime pipeline.

wky rats exhibit altered colonic morphology associated with mild mucosal damage 34 and show stress-induced changes in intestinal transport 44 45. they also show significantly higher anxiety-induced defecation during an open field test than sd rats 34. while this suggests that gi transit may also be altered as occurs in intestinal stress-associated functional disorders fecal pellet output does not always correlate with colonic transit in response to stress 31.understanding the relationship between stressanxiety and gi transit may help develop long-term approaches to self- management of mild dysmotility for example through dietary intervention.

gi transit was tracked at three time points by x-ray imaging while rats were under brief 5 isoflurane anesthesia to monitor exit from stomach 4 h small intestinal transit 9 h and large intestinal transit 12 h. the metallic beads were visualized by x-ray and the relatively opaque barium sulfate outlined the gi tract enabling identification of bead location.ventral and right lateral views were taken using a portable x-ray unit porta 100hf 2.0kw high frequency job yokohama japan including a camera and digital cassette canon 55g dr sensor panel in conjunction with a laptop computer lenovo thinkpad w530 and image-viewing software lenovo thinkpad w530.

we used an established high- resolution imaging method to track gi transit of solid matter from the stomach to the distal colon in vivo 11.to achieve high-resolution images we used an x-ray imag- ing system which can readily determine relative rates of transit between regions.

we measured different regions by tracking the transit of six metallic beads over 12 h to assess difference in stomach emptying and in small and large intestinal transit.

1 b and c. the stomach location status of the beads over time revealed that in two wky animals no beads exited thegi transit and metabolomic profile of wistar-kyoto ratsg65sdwkya4 hbpostgavage wky rats had slower gi bead transit than sd rats by 34 placing the beads in the small intestine figs.

this subset of animals was excluded from subsequent transit score analysis because no meaningful transit measure- ments were possible due to stomach emptying being substan- tially delayed.gi transitsprague-dawley.

am j physiol gastrointest liver physiol 313 g62-g72 2017. first published april 13 2017 gastric accommodation and intestinal morphology suggest impaired gastrointestinal gi transit may occur in the wistar-kyoto wky rat strain as common in stress-associated functional gi disorders.

because changes in gi transit can alter microbiota composition we investigated whether these are altered in wky rats compared with the resilient sprague-dawley sd rats under basal conditions and characterized plasma lipid and metabolite differences.

gi transit was decreased by 34 9 h and 21 12 h in wky compared with sd rats.

the unexpected wky rat phenotype of delayed gastric emptying yet rapid si transit was associated with altered lipid and metabolite profiles.

the delayed gastric emptying of the wky phenotype suggests this rat strain may be useful as a model for gastroparesis.new  noteworthy this study reveals that the stress-prone wistar-kyoto rat strain has a baseline physiology of gastroparesis and rapid small intestine transit together with metabolic changes consis- tent with lipid metabolism-associated dysbiosis compared with non- stress-prone rats.

this suggests that the wistar-kyoto rat strain may be an appropriate animal model for gastroparesis.view this article's corresponding video summary at gastrointestinal transit irritable bowel syndrome anxiety bile acid microbiotaaddress for reprint requests and other correspondence j. e. dalziel food nutrition and health team food and bio-based products group agresearch grasslands research centre private bag 11008 palmerston north 4442 new zealand e-mail .animal models of anxiety and depression are often used to study functional gastrointestinal gi disorders because these can be considered disorders of the gut-brain axis.

the wistar- kyoto wky rat strain is sensitive to stress and is used as a model for anxiety 24 depression 36 and visceral hypersen- sitivity 19 yet little is known about its gi function and microbiota compared with the sprague-dawley sd strain which is often used as a resilient comparison 21 32 33. wky rats are reported to have impaired gastric accommoda- tion such that their maximal volume response to stomach distension is decreased compared with sd rats 31a but peristaltic motility does not differ 23. however whether this impairment in the wky strain affects gastric emptying or gi transit during digestion in other regions is not known.

defining the phenotype of the stress-prone wky strain and determining functional differences compared with the sd strain will better enable use of this strain as a model for human functional gi disorders and may enable identification of associated biomarkers.to investigate whether strain differences in gi function exist we compared gi transit and microbiota composition between wky and sd rats.

