based on the ranked median abundances of various genera in samples from each region samples from usa and colombia were found to cluster together and those from the indian samples current study and the chinesestudy1 samples appeared closer to each other supplementary fig.

we report the microbial diversity abundance variation and interaction patterns of the gastric microbiota of indian patients with h. pylori infection and present a comparison of the same with the gastric microbial ecology in samples from different geographic regions.

similarly based on the abun- dances the microbial genera in the samples could be classified into two main clusters c1 and c2 supplementary table s4.helicobacter abundance pattern showed a distinct signature across the samples.

d loadings of features in pca of publicly available samples from three studies gastric cancer patient samples ignored and the indian cohort showing geography-based clustering.helicobacteraceae family was seen to be dominated and acted as the hub of the network suggesting its capability to function like helicobacter.although therapeutic approach to h. pylori infection currently focuses on antimicrobial strategies means to modulate the stomach microbiota may be another approach worth considering either for prevention or for treatment.to summarize our results present a comprehensive and novel perspective on the microbial communities in the stomach ecosystem.

such microbial abundance profiles and microbial interactions can helpin understanding the pathophysiology of gastric ailments and can thus help in development of new strategies to curb it.the acidic ph in the stomach lumen impedes bacterial growth.

email figure 1. microbial abundance profiles of 39 indian subjects showing inter-individual variations of microbial community structure.

to investigate inter-individual variations in microbial community composition microbial abundances for each sample were calculated based on the taxonomic assignments of the constituent v1-v5 rrna gene sequences followed by normalization across genera.

these results suggest that the interactionsassociations between various microbial genera are modulated by the presence of helicobacter.variation of stomach microbial profile with geography.

d clade-specific co-operation variation with increase in helicobacter abundance.the present study indicates an inverse relationship between microbial diversity and helicobacter abundance as well as probable modulations of microbial abundance by helicobacter similar to those reported previously.

while the shannon diversity remained almost constant up to certain abundance of helicobacter 0.25 it showed gradual decrease with increase in helicobacter abundance suggesting a link between microbial diversity and helicobacter abundance.the close interactions of helicobacter with other genera as well as co-occurrence patterns of members of the cluster c2 supplementary table s4 with helicobacter dominance indicate that members of the cluster c2 are probably more critical than members of c1 supplementary table s4 in driving the microbial community dynamics of the gastric microbiome.several possible mechanisms have been proposed for co-occurrence as well as mutual exclusion of organisms in body sites.

additional validations using experimental tech- niques are expected to provide robust set of microbial interactions.microbial interaction network analyses using publicly available datasets suggest that members of cluster c1 form common interaction core in datasets from various geographic regions and may be critical in determining the regional basis of variation in microbial community dynamics.

the observed interaction patterns both positive and negative can help in identifying microbial genera that may be used to restore harmony in the gastric microbial community thereby leading to alternative strategies to curb the gastric dysbiosis caused by helicobacter and other pathogenic genera.methodssample collection and dna extraction.

bi-clustering shows profile-based clustering of samples into 4 groups g1 to g4 as well as microbial clades clusters c1 and c2.in order to investigate this aspect we analyzed stomach microbiota composition of 39 indian patients withpylori infection by investigating their 16s rrna gene sequences.

microbial entities present in at least 30 of the samples indicated a total of 50 genera and 70 otus.

also the list of lowest level of classification correspond- ing to the taxa identified at the genera level is provided in supplementary table s3.genera-level profiles were analyzed by bi-clustering using ranked abundances across samples that showed differential microbial abundance patterns fig.

