However when studied in charcoal meal GI transit test PA caused significant p  0.05 attenuation of GIT motility and an increase in intestinal transit time compara- ble to atropine a muscarinic receptor blocking agent.Conclusion In conclusion PA displayed a strong dose-dependent reduction in GIT motility with consider- able safety.Keywords Pistacia integerima pistagremic acid acute toxicity GIT motility test dose-dependent reduction charcoal meal.INTRODUCTIONThe plant Pistacia integerrima as a member of Anacardi- acea family which flourishes in some areas of KPK Paki- stan and eastern Himalayan from Indus to Kumaon 1 at an altitude of 12000 to 8000 feet 2 P. integerrima is consid- ered to be an important medicinal plant which has been tradi- tionally utilized for the treatment of different ailments and employed as blood purifier and for anti-inflammatory condi- tions and as a remedy for gastrointestinal disorders such as vomiting and diarrhea expectorant cough asthma and fever 3.

In addition the galls of P. integerrima are used asAddress correspondence to this author at the Department of Geology University of Swabi Ambar-23561 Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Pakistan TelFax 923469488944 923139488944E-mail an anti-asthmatic anti-diarrheal and antipyretic for the treatment of skin diseases psoriasis and many other diseases including oxidative stress hepatitis C and liver problem 4.Along with other medicinal uses of P. integerrima GIT motility test from the extract of galls of P. integerrima has been reported 5.

Zada A. Abbas M. Ali T. Niaz U. Analgesic anti GIT motility and toxicological activities of Pistacia integerrima Stewart ex Brandis bark in mice.

P. integerrima has been used for the treatment of different ailments such as blood purifier anti-inflammatory and as remedy for gastrointestinal disorders such as vomiting and diarrhea ex- pectorant cough asthma and fever.Objective The main objective of this research work was to evaluate the effect of pistagremic acid PA isolated from the galls of Pistacia integerima in acute toxicity and gastrointestinal GIT motil- ity tests.Methods Compound 1 namely pistagremic acid PA at 10 50 100 mgkg i.p were assessed for their in-vivo gastrointestinal motility test using charcoal screening model.Results Results revealed that pretreatment of PA exhibited substantial safety in acute toxicity test up to the dose of 500 mgkg p.o.

Bar diagram displays GIT motility profile of PA in a dose- dependent manner on the portable of charcoal meals over small intestine of mice in the occurrence and absence of various concen- trations of atropine.CONCLUSIONSIn conclusion PA isolated from the galls of P. integer- rima provoked strong reduction in GIT motility with sub- stantial safety in preliminary studies.

Results of the present study revealed marked effect of PA isolated from galls of P. integerrima on GIT motility test with substantial safety.The acute toxicity test is commonly used to assess the preliminary safety profile of the test compounds in terms of gross behavioral changes and mortality 8 10.

PA exhibited significant safety in acute toxicity test.When studied in charcoal meal GIT test PA caused a dose-dependent reduction in the propulsive movement of charcoal meal and demonstrated strong anti GIT motility effect comparable to that of atropine sulphate a muscarinic receptor blocking agent.

gDepartment of Pharmacy University of Swabi Ambar-23561 Khyber Pakhtunkhwa PakistanhDepartment of Chemistry The University of Jordan Amman 11942 Jordan iInstitute of Chemical Sciences Universityof Peshawar Peshawar KPK Pakista jDepartment of Botany Abdul Wali Khan University Mardan 23200 PakistanA R T I C L E H I S T O R YReceived April 09 2016Revised August 28 2016Accepted October 01 2016DOI 10.21741573406412666161007145247Abstract Background Pistacia integerrima has many medicinal uses in therapeutic as well as folk medicine.

In the herbarium of the same department a voucher specimen NO Bot-20037-PUP was dropped.Extraction and IsolationFourteen kilograms of dried and crumpled bark of the plant Pistacia integerrima Stewart was extracted with cold methanol MeOH this process afforded 600g crude com- bine extract.

Ahmed F. Phytoconstituents from the galls of Pistacia integerrima Stewart.

