right-panel bray-curtis distance-based pcoa biplot with biweight mid-correlations showing separation of donor stools for gf mice nc healthy control n 14 5 ca colorectal cancer n 14 5.december 2017fecal microbiota from crc patients promotes tumorigenesis 1633.e2supplementary table 1. details of colonic polyps in the 3 groups of mice in the aom modelmean - sdsupplementary table 2. clinical characteristics of the human donors for stool gavage to mice in the aom modelcrc caseshealthy controlsna not applicable.supplementary table 3. clinical characteristics of the human donors for stool gavage to mice in the germ-free modelcrc caseshealthy controlsna not applicable.supplementary table 4. relative abundance of selected bacteria with putative pro-tumorigenic role in crcsupplementary table 5. comparisons of community richness and diversity indexes in mice transplanted with crc or healthy stoolsshannon-weaver's diversityaom micecrc-a vs hc-a1.169.242 observed community richness sobsgerm-freecrc-g vs hc-g 8 wk2.803.005 chao1 community richnessgerm-freecrc-g vs hc-g 8 wk0.550.624 fisher's alpha diversitygerm-freecrc-g vs hc-g 8 wk2.803.005 shannon-weaver's diversitygerm-freecrc-g vs hc-g 8 wk4.2731.93 x 10-5supplementary table 6. list of genes showing up-regulation for more than twofold in aom and germ-free mice gavaged with stools from crc cases vs healthy controls expression levels were compared using the mouse inflammatory response and autoimmunity pcr arraydecember 2017fecal microbiota from crc patients promotes tumorigenesis 1633.e6supplementary table 7. list of genes showing up-regulation for more than twofold in aom and germ-free mice gavaged with stools from crc cases vs healthy controls expression levels were compared using the mouse cancer pathway finder pcr array

further studies have found that some bacteria including escherichia coli bacteroides fragilis fusobacterium nuclea- tum and peptostreptococcus anaerobius may potentiatefrom patients with crc vs those fed with stool from controls p  .05. feces from germ-free and conventional mice fed with stool from patients with crc vs controls contained different microbial compositions with lower richness in mice fed with stool from patients with crc.

taken together these data suggest that the crc microbiota promoted colonic epithelial cell proliferation in germ-free mice especially after a prolonged period of colonization.distinct gut microbiota development in mice receiving stool from crc and healthy subjectswe performed 16s rrna gene sequencing on stool collected from mice in both aom and germ-free models after feeding stool from 5 patients with crc and 5 healthy controls to mice in each model.

we found stool from patients with crc to increase the numbers of polyps levels of intestinal dysplasia and proliferation markers of inflammation and proportions of th1 and th17 cells in colon compared with stool from individuals without crc.

results significantly higher proportions of conventional mice fed with stool from in- dividuals with crc than control stool developed high-grade dysplasia p  .05 and macroscopic polyps p  .01. we observed a higher proportion of proliferating ki-67- positive cells in colons of germ-free mice fed with stoolmerging evidence suggests that the gut microbiota contributes to the carcinogenesis of colorectalcancer crc along with genetic and other environmental factors.

separate sets of stool samples were used for the germ-free and aom mice.intestinal carcinogenesis by producing genotoxin trig- gering th17 immune response modulating the tumor microenvironment and activating toll-like receptor and beta-catenin signaling in various murine models.consistent with these findings we and other groups have identified microbial changes and symbiotic networks across stages of colorectal carcinogenesis.- in a case- control study comparing the fecal microbiota of 74 patients with crc and 54 controls we have identified several novel bacteria and validated microbial markers potentially translatable into biomarkers for early cancer detection.our further work using paired mucosal samples revealed a disrupted bacterial ecology occurring early at the stage of adenoma during colorectal carcinogenesis.to investigate the effects and molecular basis of the microbial consortia on colorectal carcinogenesis we gavaged mice with stool from human patients with crc and healthy controls and studied the phenotypic pathologic and molecu- lar changes in the recipients.

overall there was a significantly higher com- posite histology score in the crc-a group 4.45 - 1.81 than the 2 control groups average score 2.82 - 1.47 p  .05 e  indicating more mucosal dysplasia and inflammation in mice that received stool from patients with crc.crc stool increases colonocyte proliferation in a germ-free mouse modelto study the effects of the crc stool independent of the preexisting microbial milieu we gavaged stool from patients with crc and healthy controls to germ-free mice crc-g and hc-g group n 15 each.

as th1- and th17- related cytokines were up-regulated by crc microbiota in germ-free mice we characterized the th1 and th17 immune cells from the intestinal tissues of germ-free mice receiving stool gavage from the patients with crc or healthy controls.

this study provides evidence for the direct pro-tumorigenic effect of the crc microbiota as a whole in conventional and germ-free mouse models.figure 5. effects of crc stool on inflammatory factors.

with a higher rate of high-grade dysplasia among mice fed with stool from patients with crc than those from healthy controls our study suggests that a defined set of microbiota may be important for crc carcinogenesis.

consistently stool collected from patients with crc had more f nucleatum and p anaerobius along with peptostreptococcus stomatis parvimonas micra solobacterium moorei and gemella morbillorum that can form a co-occurring bacterial network in crc.

this study provides unique data on the in vivo effects of a polymicrobial mixture from patients with crc and shows that the crc microbiota is promoting carcinogenesis rather than protecting against it.

despite evolving changes with time the microbiota of the recipient mice remained distinctively different between case-control groups compatible with the presence of a cancer-specific signature in the crc microbiota.a previous well-conducted study with stool gavage from patients with crc failed to recapitulate the human phenotype in germ-free mice.the investigators used aom to initiate tumor formation and dextran sulfate sodium dss to inflict inflammation at 3 weeks after gavage of human stool.

together with the germ- free model we herein provide strong evidence for the tumorigenic effects of the crc microbiota.our microarray data suggest that the crc microbiota may evoke multiple inflammatory and oncogenic pathways in colorectal carcinogenesis.

gastroenterology 20171531621-1633gavage of fecal samples from patients with colorectal cancer promotes intestinal carcinogenesis in germ-free and conventional micesunny h. wong1liuyang zhao1xiang zhang1 geicho nakatsu1 juqiang han12 weiqi xu1 xue xiao1 thomas n. y. kwong1 ho tsoi1 william k. k. wu3 benhua zeng4 francis k. l. chan1 joseph j. y. sung1 hong wei4 and jun yu11institute of digestive disease department of medicine and therapeutics state key laboratory of digestive disease li ka shing institute of health sciences and cuhk-shenzhen research institute the chinese university of hong kong hong kong hong kong 2institute of liver disease beijing military general hospital beijing china 3department of anaesthesia and intensive care the chinese university of hong kong hong kong hong kong and 4department of laboratory animal science college of basic medical sciences third military medical university chongqing chinaproliferation stemness apoptosis angiogenesis invasiveness and metastasis in mice fed with stool from patients with crc.

