comparison of the otu changes induced by stress in mice on ncd ver- sus hfd revealed that only 4 otus in females and 3 otus in males were changed similarly by stress in ncd and hfd mice suggesting that the microbiota's response to stress is powerfully shaped by diet.stress in females shifted the ncd gut microbiota to resemble the hfd microbiota.

reveals that the gut microbiota of mice on ncd underwent only small shifts between days 0 and 81 again indicating that composition of the gut microbiota is relatively stable in adultmice over time consistent with stress being the primary driver of microbiota changes observed between days 81 and 136 in this study.

stress caused the ncd gut microbiota to resemble the hfd microbiota--sug- gesting that stress and hfd can cause similar changes to the gut microbiota in females.

taken together these results suggest the importance of considering gender as a biological variable in studies on the role of gut microbiota in obesity-related mood disorders.converging lines of evidence indicate that a dysbiotic gut microbiota contributes to obesity and its associated metabolic phenotypes including heart disease insulin resistance fatty liver and systemic inflammation.

adipose tissue can secrete proinflam- matory cytokines and leptin providing a route by which adipose tissue can directly modulate neurological func- tion but transplantation of gut microbiota from obese donor mice on a high fat diet hfd produced behavioral changes in recipient mice even though the recipients did not develop obesity suggesting that the gut microbiota can also directly modulate some of the neurological complications of obesity.stress like a hfd can alter the composition of the gut microbiota-.

all time points that showed significant differences between males and females are marked p 0.05. no significant differences were detected after day 50. n 14-17 per group.to examine the interrelationship between diet stress gut microbiota and mood disorders we used a high fat diet hfd to alter the gut microbiota and induce obesity in mice and then measured anxiety-like behavior.

stress in female ncd mice caused the gut microbiota to more closely resemble the microbiota produced by long-term consumption of hfd even though the female ncd mice showed no weight gain.

that stress in females caused the ncd gut microbiota to more closely resemble the hfd gut microbiota.

after normalization to eliminate the confounding effects of reduced noveltyfigure 6. stress in females shifted the ncd gut microbiota to resemble the hfd gut microbiota.

this study illustrates the importance of that mandate as diet and stress produced different impacts on the gut microbiota on anxiety-like behaviors and on locomotor activity in female and male mice.referencesmurphy e. a. velazquez k. t.  herbert k. m. influence of high-fat diet on gut microbiota a driving force for chronic disease risk.current opinion in clinical nutrition and metabolic care doi2015.turnbaugh p. j. backhed f. fulton l.  gordon j. i. diet-induced obesity is linked to marked but reversible alterations in the mouse distal gut microbiome.

openreceived 22 february 2017accepted 17 august 2017 published xx xx xxxxgender-based differences in host behavior and gut microbiota composition in response to high fat diet and stress in a mouse modellaura c. bridgewater 12 chenhong zhang1yanqiu wu2 weiwei hu3 qianpeng zhang2 jing wang 2 shengtian li 3  liping zhao2obesity is associated with a high prevalence of mood disorders such as anxiety and depression.

both stress and high fat diet can alter the gut microbiota and contribute to obesity.

to examine the interrelationships between obesity stress gut microbiota and mood disorders obesity was induced in mice using a high fat diet and the mice were subsequently stressed using a chronic unpredictable mild stress protocol.

during the experiment the composition of the gut microbiota was analyzed by16 s rrna gene high-throughput sequencing and anxiety-like behaviors were measured.

the results revealed distinct gender differences in the impacts of obesity and stress on anxiety-like behaviors activity levels and composition of the gut microbiota.

