concomitantly there was a substantial and statistically significant in- crease p  0.05 in fusobacteria in pvd cows uterine microbiota cows representing 6 of the total bacteria population.the proportion of bacteroidetes in healthy cows was20 whereas it was 29 in pvd cows p  0.27. conversely the relative abundance of sequences affili- ated with proteobacteria was 33 in healthy cows but fell to 28 in pvd cows p  0.63.the most abundant bacterial taxa identified in the uterine microbiota of healthy and pvd cows are de- picted in figure 2a which illustrates differential rep- resentation by mean proportion and their differences between the 2 health statuses.

the observations that the healthy microbiota is tolerant to colicin e2 whereas the uterine microbiota of pvd cows produces cytolethal distending toxins and modifies its lipopoly- saccharides suggest that species-intrinsic factors may be more relevant than bacterial abundance to the de- velopment of disease or maintenance of health in the dairy cow postpartum uterus.key words purulent vaginal discharge shotgunmicrobiomeintroductionpurulent vaginal discharge pvd affects 15 to 42 of dairy cows generally after the third week of lactation potter et al.

bacteriocins and ribosomally synthesized antibacterial peptides were exclusive to the healthyuterine microbiota and were dominated by tolerance to colicin e2 anosim p  0.05 r  0.78. the bac- terial adaptive response to oxidative stress and heat shock functions were numerically higher in the uterine microbiota of pvd cows than in the healthy microbiota anosim p  0.28 r  0.4 figure 4d.relative abundance of sequences encoding for lipid a modification and cdt representing 0.001 and 0.015 respectively of the total number of sequences affiliated to functional profile enclosed by pvd cows are depicted in figure 5.total bacterial 16s rdna loadto compare the total bacterial load between uterine samples from cows with pvd and healthy cows we as- sessed the number of 16s rdna copies v3 region per milliliter of uterine sample.

moreover our observations that total bacterial load was not associated with pvd and that the uterine microbiota of pvd cows produces cdt and modifies its lps suggest that factors intrinsic to species may bemore relevant than bacterial abundance to the develop- ment of pvd versus maintenance of health in the cow postpartum uterus.referencesamos m. r. g. d. healey r. j. goldstone s. m. mahan a. du- vel h. j. schuberth o. sandra p. zieger i. dieuzy-labaye d.smith and i. m. sheldon.

2010. cows with a score 3 were classi- fied as pvd cows n  12 cows with a score 2 were classified as healthy n  8.sample collectionfor metagenomics sequencing intrauterine samples were obtained using the previously described cytobrush technique kasimanickam et al.

2015. in addition to the presence of t. pyogenes abundance of bacteroidetes and fusobacteriain the uterus has been a common finding in cows with pvd and is frequently associated with uterine inflam- mation williams et al.

2016.it is noteworthy that in the present study trueper- ella was not among the most common genera found in either uterine microbiota healthy and pvd cows constituting only 1 of the total number of sequences which is similar to the results of knudsen et al.

1998. these observations add to our microbiological results suggesting that the uterine microbiota of pvd cows is characterized by a core of specific microbial activi- ties that promote bacterial escape from host defenses and certain antimicrobial drugs as is imperative in the pathogenesis of persistent or chronic infection.in recent years major advances have occurred in our understating of the pathogenic role of e. coli lps regarding uterine innate immunity of dairy cows both the severity of disease and the causal relationship be- tween uterine infection and infertility have been linked to the mechanism of lps pathogenicity sheldon and roberts 2010 sheldon et al.

the increased abundance of fusobacteria and the unique presence of trueperella in the pvd cows highlight the important role of these bacteria in the pathogenesis of pvd.

student's t-test was used to compare differences in total bacterial load between uterine samples from cows diagnosed with pvd and healthy cows.resultssequencing results and phylogenetic distribution in the uterine microbiomemetagenome sequencing of endometrial samples from the 12 pvd and 8 healthy cows yielded a total of 9602142 raw reads and approximately 7 million reads after quality filtering.

these level 1 reads accounted for 12 to 21 of the total reads referred to the functional profile.the healthy uterine microbiota demonstrated a nu- merically higher mean relative abundance compared with pvd cows for most of the functional systems identified however this difference was not significant figure 3a p  0.4. further analysis was performed to better understand the predicted functional differences between the uterine microbiota of healthy and pvd cows that may generate a hypothesis regarding the role of the different community members in controlling the fate of infection.

capsular and extracellular polysaccharide genes genes associated with cell wall structural variability besides lps and lipoteichoic acid were numerically higher in the micro- biota of pvd cows and were mostly characterized by sialic acid biosynthesis anosim p  0.2 r  0.6. gram-negative cell wall components lps were found to be slightly higher in the microbiota of pvd cows than in the healthy microbiota and were dominated by lps assembly and lipid a biosynthesis.

the healthy microbiota presented a higher average relative abundance for all dna categories compared with the microbiota of pvd cows however the difference within each of those categories was not significant p  0.54. resistance to antibiotic and toxic compounds was the predominant subsystem identified in the virulence disease and defense systems category 50 for the uterine microbiota of both the pvd cows and healthy cows figure 4c.

no statistical difference was observed between uterine mi- crobiota of pvd and healthy cows p  0.87. results are shown as the mean values of 2 replicates - sem figure 6.discussionin this study we conducted a sequence-and-function- based gene evaluation of the uterine microbiome and its association with late infection of the uterus offigure 5. box plot showing the distribution of the functional categories at subsystem level 2 of uterine metagenomic data for purulent vaginal discharge pvd cows and healthy h cows.

our data demonstrating the increased abundance of bacteroidetes and fusobacteria coupled with the unique presence of trueperella in the uterine microbiota found in cows presenting pvd highlight the important role of those bacteria in the pathogenesis of pvd.

