although some evidence of clinical effectiveness of probiotics has been pro- vided for certain diseases such as antibi- otic-associated diarrhea clostridium difficile-associated colitis irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel dis- ease  much of the data presented in the contemporary body of medical litera- ture is inconsistent.

intriguingly these efforts have led to realization that living organisms can be used therapeutically to combat infectious diseases defining a novel group of thera- peutic entities which in turn are also used for the treatment of noninfectious diseases.

concomitantly new questions emerge with respect to how to define dose and measure amounts of this therapeutic organism and how to assess its potential ecological risks following excretion of modified organisms from the body.some guidance in this respect may be obtained from the experience with pro- biotics and prebiotics.

they are used as pre- to mode of delivery consensus as to mea-sure pharmacokinetics of genetically engi- neeredbacteriaandtherequiredventive or supportive medication in a vari- ety of conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome inflammatory bowel diseaseforumgenetically engineered bacteria for treating human diseasebuyun ma1 1 maikel p. peppelenbosch1bacteria have now been har- nessed to combat human dis- eases especially to meet the challenge of antimicrobial resis- tance.

nevertheless the complex compositions of feces might unavoidably expose patients to unde- tected organisms or even harmful patho- gens  and the importance of using living organisms for this treatment has also been challenged .

modulating the micro- biome particularly by genetically engineering the bacteria has pro- vided proof-of-concept as poten- tial pharmacotherapy but thoseprecautions with respect to contaminationof ecosystems with genetically modified organisms or the transmission of harmful organismstopatients.

second it may help us understand the higher onco- genicity of k-ras as compared with other ras-driven cancers which may identify new drug targets.

it may however work in more than one way.

however rapidly spreading antibiotic resistance because of inappropriate use has pro- vided new urgency to the quest of devel- oping alternative antimicrobial strategies .

thus those involved in the field should engage in discussion as how to move forward in these respects.such discussion is especially called for in view of the rapid development in the field.

however despite the regular use of probiotics and prebiotics as medication and functional food there is still little guid- ance as to how to assess the pharmaco- kinetics of such preparations.

those involved in the field however need to anticipate such developments and should proactively address questions  about how to define pharmacokinetic parameters of therapeutic preparations consisting of living bacteria.disclaimer statementthe authors declare no conflict of interest.1department of gastroenterology and hepatology erasmus mc-university medical center rotterdam the netherlandscorrespondence m.p.

the production of therapeutic proteins through geneti- cally modified organisms at mucosal sur- faces has important advantages in particular the possibility to achieve local delivery which increases efficacy and at the same time reduces adverse effects.

these may help explain why iso- forms are expressed to different extents in distinct cancers.

the com- plexity of oncogenic processes is immense and i think that choosing significant problems that we can address is the key for us to be able to hopefully make significant contributions.involved in this field should engage in discussion as how to move forward.over the ages the rapid and invisible transmission of infectious diseases has inspired shock and awe in human society.

