IL1b expression was induced by conventional microbiota and tetraflora and IL17 expression was significantly induced by tetraflora and E. coli.Identification of proteins present in caecal contentsof germ-free E. coli and E. faecium associated chickens Secreted immunoglobulins can be found as adsorbed to gut microbiota .

Finally we tested the expression of IL1b IL17 and IL22 cytokines which are known to respond to gut colonisation .Out of the glycolytic genes ACO1 GPI and LDHA LDHA gene expression was induced by conventional microbiota tetraflora E. coli and E. faecium.

There was therefore a clear microbiota compo- sition dependent effect and Gram-positive E. faecium DSM 7134 was the least stimulatory bacterial species of all compared.Functional classification of additional proteins induced or suppressed by gut microbiotaSince the inoculation of chickens with killed microbiota did not induce immunoglobulin expression Figure  we considered this intervention as having minimal effectTable 2 List of 25 of the most induced or suppressed proteins in the chicken caecum following colonisation with microbi- ota of different composition in comparison to protein abundance in the caecum of germ-free chickens only the significant fold changes to the expression in germ free chickens are shownMicrobiota INDUCED caecal proteinsMicrobiota SUPPRESSED caecal proteinson protein expression in the chicken caecum and we therefore excluded this group from further considera- tions.

Out of live bacte- ria tetraflora and conventional microbiota stimulated transcription of IgA IgM as well as Igl light chain more than E. coli Nissle and E. coli stimulated immu- noglobulin transcription more than E. faecium DSM 7134.

Mono association of chickens with E. coli and E. faecium also meant that differences in proteingene expression of chickens colonised exclusively by a representative of Gram-negative or Gram-positive microbiota could be addressed.

Due to the higher n in the summed data 20 germ free chickens compared to 15 chickens colonised with E. coli or E. faecium or heat killed tetraflora or 5 chickens colonised tetraflora or 5 conventional chick- ens we gave a higher weight to the latter type of analysis though this type of testing was always compared with age and experiment dependent comparisons not to overlook age-dependent expression patterns.

Expres- sion of GPI was induced by E. coli and E. faecium and ACO1 gene expression was induced by tetraflora.

coli associated chickens than in E. faecium colonised chickens and CBS cystathionine b-synthase and ANPEPcarboxypeptidase N were more frequently detected in the pellets obtained from the chickens associated with E. fae- cium Figure .DiscussionIn this study we addressed the influence of gut micro- biota on both gene expression and protein abundance in the caecum of germ-free and colonised chickens.

Likely LPS from the Gram-negative E. coli despite semirough structure of LPS in E. coli Nissle or Salmonella acted as a potent stimulatory signal activating infiltration and development of B-lymphocytes although we must reiter- ate that the presence of LPS itself is not enough to trig- ger immunoglobulin expression since killed tetraflora failed to stimulate transcription of immunoglobulin genes.

Higher expression of immuno- globulins in E. coli Nissle than in E. faecium DSM7134 colonised chickens was confirmed also in the pellets obtained from the caecal contents.

