Mucosa proteomics DMPA Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate microbiome metaproteome HIV progestin vaginal drying genital injury.Women bear a disproportionate burden of new human immuno- deficiency virus HIV infections in sub-Saharan Africa account- ing for 56 of new infections 1-3.

For commercial re-use please contact DOI10.1093infdisjiw590Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate is the most popular injectable contraceptive used in sub-Saharan Africa and areas of high HIV risk and has been associated with a 1.2-1.7-fold increase in risk of HIV acquisition 4-7.

Stabilizing HIV prevalence masks high HIV incidence rates amongst rural and urban women in KwaZulu-Natal South Africa.

Association between injectable proges- tin-only contraceptives and HIV acquisition and HIV target cell frequency in the female genital tract in South African women a prospective cohort study.

The Journal of Infectious Diseases MAJO R ARTICL EGenital Injury Signatures and Microbiome Alterations Associated With Depot Medroxyprogesterone Acetate Usage and Intravaginal Drying PracticesKenzie D. Birse12a Laura M. Romas12a Brandon L. Guthrie3 Peter Nilsson5 Rose Bosire7 James Kiarie8 Carey Farquhar4 Kristina Broliden6 and Adam D. Burgener1261National HIV and Retrovirology Labs JC Wilt Infectious Disease Research Centre Public Health Agency of Canada and 2Department of Medical Microbiology University of Manitoba Winnipeg Canada 3Departments of Global Health and Epidemiology and 4Department of Medicine University of Washington Seattle 5Affinity Proteomics SciLife Lab School of Biotechnology KTH-Royal Institute of Technology and 6Department of Medicine Solna Unit of Infectious Diseases Center for Molecular Medicine Karolinska Institutet Karolinska University Hospital Stockholm Sweden and 7Kenya Medical Research Institute and 8Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology University of Nairobi KenyaBackground.

Future investigations are needed to confirm their relationship with HIV risk in women.Keywords.

Given that a large proportion of these infections occur through heterosexual intercourse inves- tigations of the mucosal barrier of the female genital tract is of great interest because it is the first site of contact for HIV.

Many epidemiological studies have identified behavioral clinical and biological factors linked to increased risk of HIV infection in women.

D. B. and L. M. R. contributed equally to the study.Presented in part Canadian Association for HIV Research Conference Winnipeg Manitoba Canada 13 May 2016.

Although vaginal washing with water has been asso- ciated with a 2.6-fold increased risk of acquiring HIV vaginal washing with soap has been associated with a 3.8-fold increased risk and vaginal drying is believed to negatively affect the mucosal barrier of the female genital tract the impact of these intravaginal practices on the function of the mucosal barrier is not well under- stood 10-12.Mucosal surfaces play a role in natural immunity and func- tion as an ecological niche for various microbes.

