altogether these results might indicate a possible role for r. ilealis cribt in intestinal cross-feeding networks by releasing d-fructose during growth on fructans like fos which can function as growth substrate for other microbes or be directly absorbed by the host.fucose degradation and its advantagesbesides diet-derived carbohydrates also host-derived carbohydrates are an important source of energy for some microbes.

sulfite reduction by r. ilealis cribt and close relatives has been previously demonstrated in vitro  and increased growth yield and metabolite production was observed in the presence of sulfite for r. ilealis cribt .

genomic studies of small intestinal isolates have indicated environment-specific adaptations to the small intestine with respect to their carbohydrate utilization capacities which was evidenced by the presence of a wide array of genes involved in nutrient transport and metabolism of mainly simple carbohydrates .here we describe a model driven genomic analysis of the small intestinal inhabitantromboutsia ilealis cribt .

thirdly growth on l-fucose was examined as growth on this substrate was found to be unique for r. ilealis cribt compared to other related microbes.

finally r. ilealis cribt was also grown in the basal medium in the absence of an additional carbon source for comparison control condition.based on measurements of optical density and ph during growth growth characteristics of individual cultures can be found in  samples were drawn in the mid-exponential phase 8-10 h incubation used for transcriptome analysis and in stationary phase 24 h incubation and sugar utilization and fermentation products were measured with hplc .

it was recently suggested that the host is able to regulate fucosylation of its intestinal epithelial cells in response to pathogen-induced stress and that microbes that are able to use fucose as an energy sourcemay contribute to the protection of the host against infections by endogenous pathogens .regulation of carbohydrate catabolismin the intestinal environment r. ilealis cribt will encounter a wide array of carbohydrates that are either continually or transiently present.

previously good growth of r. ilealis on l-fucose glucose raffinose and sucrose was described in addition to moderate growth on d-arabinose and d-galactose and weak growth on d-fructose inulin lactose maltose and melibiose.

the overall g  c content of the genome is 27.9 which is in good agreement with a g c content of 28.1 mol previously determined for r. ilealis cribt by hplc methods.with a total of 14 copies of the 16s ribosomal rna rrna gene r. ilealis cribt is among the species with the highest number of 16s rrna gene copies reported up to this date .

r. ilealis cribt is currently still theonly isolate of the recently descibed species r. ilealis a species that belongs to the family peptostreptococcaceae of which many members are common intestinal microbes including the well-known species clostridioides difficile previously known as clostridium difficile and intestinibacter bartlettii previously known as clostridum bartlettii  .

an overview of the metabolic capabilities and nutritional potential of the type strain of r. ilealis cribt is provided here to identify potential mechanisms that enable this organism to survive in the competitive small intestinal environment.materials and methodsgenome sequencing assembly and annotationr.

ilealis cribt was grown in a basal bicarbonate-buffered medium  supplemented with 16 gl yeast extract bd breda the netherlands and an amino acids solution as used for the growth of c. difficile .

although a separate arabinose transporter similar to the maltose and sucrose transporters could be identified in the genome r. ilealis cribt no separate pathway for the use of d-arabinose could be predicted however it is likely that the l-fucose degradation pathway encoded by genes crib1294-crib1298 is also used for d-arabinose utilization as is also observed in other intestinal species .

although the physiological advantages of bshs for the microbes are not completely understood it has been hypothesized that they constitute a mechanism to detoxify bile salts and thereby enhance bacterial colonization .metabolite and transcriptome analysismetabolite and transcriptome analysis of r. ilealis cribt during growth on different carbohydratesto study key pathways predicted to be involved in carbohydrate utilization and their regulation in more detail a genome-wide transcriptome analysis was performed focussing on four experimental conditions.

the metabolic model suggests that this is indeed the case as some of the enzymes produce intermediates which can be consumed by fatty acid biosynthesis and amino acid biosynthesis processes.altogether the transcriptome of r. ilealis cribt grown on fos was very similar to itstranscriptome when grown on glucose  with only 18 genes significantly upregulated during growth in the presence of fos compared to glucose .

the significance of this gene cluster for carbohydrate utilization is not known however several enzymes could be identified in the genome of r. ilealis cribt that use different forms of iron as cofactor for example the hydrogenases involved in hydrogen metabolism  several ferredoxins and the l-threonine dehydratase crib-426 that was significantly upregulated during growth on l-fucose.

