Two Lactobacillus rhamnosus clinical isolates from dental pulp infection were found to have a modified exopolysaccharide EPS cluster which was different from L. rhamnosus GG .It has not been demonstrated unequivocally whether the isolated L. rhamnosus strains from infected tissue or blood of bacteremic patients were similar to L. rhamnosus GG at genomic level and whether they have similar or distinct features with L. rhamnosus GG in terms of immunological and immunogenic properties in the human host.

The GC content varied among the genomes from 46.6 to 46.8 being closely similar to L. rhamnosus GG 46.7 while the number of ORF predictions varied between 2648 and 3010 exceeding that of L. rhamnosus GG 2926.To analyze the similarity of the strains against L. rhamnosus GG at sequence level a dendro- gram based on cluster analysis of the presence of orthologs at 90 sequence identity was cre- ated .

Bold and Italic letters equal significant value p0.05 for biofilm formation compared to L. rhamnosus GG GG.

The main purpose of this study was to first identify the isolated strains at the sequence level and compare them to the widely consumed probiotic L. rhamnosus GG and secondly to investi- gate the phenotypic features related to complement evasion platelet aggregation and biofilm formation in these isolated L. rhamnosus strains and compare these characteristics with L. rhamnosus GG.

Our data revealed that L. rhamnosus isolates were clearly different from L. rhamnosus GG and each other at sequence level and they did not possess any distinctive niche specific blood genotypic traits as compared to L. rhamnosus GG.

Interestingly we found that the strains in cluster A and cluster B possessed different EPS clusters so that the strains in cluster A had the EPS cluster similar to L. rhamnosus GG but the strains in cluster B had different sets of genes encoding proteins needed for EPSCPS produc- tion such as glycosyltransferases and hypothetical proteins than GG.

Lr GG equals L. rhamnosus GG.

RESEARCH ARTICLEGenotypic and phenotypic diversity of Lactobacillus rhamnosus clinical isolates their comparison with strain GG and their recognition by complement systemEija Nissila 1 Franc ois P. Douillard12 Jarmo Ritari23 Lars Paulin4 Hanna M. Ja rvinen1 Pia Rasinkangas2 Karita Haapasalo1 Seppo Meri15 Hanna Jarva15 Willem M. de Vos1261 Department of Bacteriology  Immunology and Research Programs Unit Immunobiology University of Helsinki Finland 2 Department of Veterinary Biosciences Division of Microbiology and Epidemiology University of Helsinki Helsinki Finland 3 Finnish Red Cross Blood Service Helsinki Finland 4 Institute of Biotechnology University of Helsinki Helsinki Finland 5 Helsinki University Hospital Laboratory HUSLAB Helsinki Finland 6 Laboratory of Microbiology Wageningen University Wageningen The Netherlands ENWMdVOPEN ACCESSCitation Nissila E Douillard FP Ritari J Paulin L Jarvinen HM Rasinkangas P et al.

2017 Genotypic and phenotypic diversity of Lactobacillus rhamnosus clinical isolates their comparison with strain GG and their recognition by complement system.

The aim of the study was to examine the genomic and immunological properties of 16 clinical blood isolates of L. rhamnosus and to compare them to the well-studied L. rham- nosus probiotic strain GG.

