a gene neighborhood of gene for universal stress protein amc0071 in akkermansia muciniphila b relatedness of gene neighborhood of gene for universal stress protein gene with red rectangle in akkermansia muciniphila to other genomes in the integrated microbial genomes system.

using the genome of l. plantarum wcfs1 as the reference the genes tagged as lp1702 and lp1703 and respectively annotated as membrane protein and diacylglycerol kinase family protein were in the same transcription direction as the two-gene operon.gene neighborhood of gene for the universal stress protein in akkermansia muciniphila genomethe presence of a two-gene operon annotated for energy metabolism and stress response functions in lactobacillus plantarum encouraged us to investigate the gene neighborhood of the only gene for universal stress protein encoded in the genome of akkermansia muciniphila atcc baa-835.

the three-gene loci of amuc0070 amuc0071 and amuc0072 are predicted to be in same operon figure a. the alignment of the genomic region containing the three-gene operon confirmed the uniqueness of the adjacency of the akkermansia muciniphila usp gene figure b. a search of literature databases for tryptophanyl-trna synthase and obesity identified reports of association with the waist-hip ratio and body fat distribution .figure 3. multi-genome alignment of the genomic region in lactobacillus plantarum genomes that includes the two-gene operon encoding translocator protein 18 kda and universal stress protein.figure 4. gene neighborhood analytics of gene amc0071 for universal stress protein of akkermansia muciniphila atcc baa-835.

interactive visual representations were constructed to accomplish the objective to determine protein length distribution and protein domain architecture of lactobacilli universal stress proteins.evaluation of the genomic context of genes encoding universal stress proteinsthe genomic context of genes encoding universal stress proteins were obtained through interaction with information on the respective gene pages in biocyc pathwaygenome database collection  and the imgm.

a data set was constructed that included gene identifiers biocyc imgm refseq locus tag operon status 0 or 1 transcription direction code 010 011 110 111 gene product description for adjacent genes position of adjacent gene before or after and lactobacilli weight modification annotation protection or gain.the predicted protein products with pfam protein domain functions encoded in the same operon as a gene for a lactobacilli universal stress protein table  were 2-dehydropantoate 2-reductase pfam02558 apba pfam08546 apbac dipeptidase pepv pfam01546 peptidasem20 manganese transport protein pfam01566 nramp and sensory protein pfam03073 tspombr.

we have also identified a possible stress response-equipped biological process involving genes for sirtuin and the universal stress protein in bacillus megaterium .a lactobacillus plantarum gene for the universal stress protein is involved in response to phenolic acid compounds found in food products of plant origin .

additionallypredicted protein products with pfam protein domain functions in the same transcription direction with an operonic lactobacilli usp gene included 1 elongation factor g pfam00009 gtpeftu and2 n-acetylmuramoyl-l-alanine amidase pfam01832 glucosaminidase.table 1. predicted protein functions of neighboring genes of genes for universal stress protein in representative genomes of lactobacilli investigated for body weight-modifying characteristics.protein pfam families encoded in two-gene operon that includes a gene for universal stress protein.

our evaluation of the gene neighborhood of the only gene for the universal stress protein familyamc0071 in the probiotic akkermansia muciniphila genome revealed an operonic arrangement with the gene for tryptophanyl-transfer ribonucleic acid trna synthase in which the human homology is associated with the waist-hip ratio whr and body fat distribution.

the 10 genomes are representative of lactobacilli species investigated for a metabolic role in modifying body weight .identification of lactobacilli universal stress proteins encoded in operonswe analyzed the gene neighborhood of 43 genes encoding universal stress proteins predicted from the genomes of eight representative lactobacillus species investigated for body weight modification.

lp1701 jdm11432 pfam03073 tspombr.alignment of genomic regions for two-gene operons that include gene for universal stress proteina total of nine universal stress proteins lactobacillus sakei lsa0042 lsa0247 lactobacillus reuteri lar1223 lactobacillus plantarum lp1322 jdm11117 lp1701 jdm11432 and lp2993 jdm12397 in the weight-modifying lactobacilli were identified as part of two-gene operons.

each genome encodes one gene for universal stress protein .discussionin this present study we have collected comprehensive functional annotation information on 2788 lactobacilli universal stress proteins by integrating data sets on genome annotation and protein annotation for 593 lactobacilli genomes.

our research strategy of combining bioinformatics and visual analytics methods was based on the identification of operon gene arrangements in genomes of lactobacillus species and akkermansia muciniphila that include at least a gene for a universal stress protein.

through both objectives we expected to accomplish the goal of identifying biological processes in lactobacilli that could influence the mechanisms for the extraction of energy from the diet in the human gastrointestinal system.our research strategies led to the identification of operon gene arrangements that include a gene for the universal stress protein as well as genes for dipeptide breakdown manganese ion transport or mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation.

data from our research study revealed a l. plantarum gene for the universal stress protein that is in operon association with a gene for fatty acid oxidation.

for example ga0113185103212 in l. plantarum 38 has a protein length of 291 aa and is composed of two domains rna pseudouridylate synthase pseudousynth2 and universal stress proteins usp.five of the 2788 universal stress protein sequences were annotated with at least one other protein domain.

