geochemistry and microbial diversity of cave waters in the gypsum karst aquifers of emilia romagna region italyilenia m. d'angeli  diana i. serrazanetti  chiara montanari  lucia vannini fausto gardini  jo de waele a department of biological geological and environmental sciences university of bologna via zamboni 67 40126 bologna italyb centro interdipartimentale di ricerca industriale agroalimentare universita degli studi di bologna sede di cesena piazza goidanich 60 47521 cesena fc italyc dipartimento di scienze e tecnologie agro-alimentari universita degli studi di bologna sede di cesena piazza goidanich 60 47521 cesena fc italyh i g h l i g h t sa five year geochemical and microbio- logical monitoring campaign has been carried out.water samples in 57 points have beentaken in gypsum caves and karst areas.major and some minor elements have been analyzed over the seasons.microbiological diversity has been as- sesses by molecular biology techniques.fluctuations of microorganisms are cor- related to season and to biological ac- tivity of bats.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l ei n f o article historyreceived 16 january 2017received in revised form 12 march 2017accepted 29 march 2017available online 25 april 2017 editor d. barcelokeywords gypsum karst water geochemistry water microbiology pollutionecosystema b s t r a c t fifty-seven control points of waters sinking streams rivers in caves and resurgences hosted in gypsum karst areas in emilia romagna region n-italy were sampled in the framework of a project life  08natit000369 gypsum in the period 2010-2014. the microbiology and chemistry of these waters have been analyzed to evaluate the im- pact of human activities or natural factors in the gypsum karst systems.

in fact onferno cave upstream f01 showed a 98 similarity with onferno cave spring f04.surprisingly the sample collected inside the cave f03 deriving from a lateral branch in onferno where dripping waters are causing calcite cave pearls to form clusterized in another small sub-cluster showing a different microflora in this specific niche.

waters flowing in these systems are normally close to sat- uration in gypsum .of completely different behavior are the so-called epigenic gypsum cave systems related to surficial water flows that through surface streams or seeping waters reaching the soluble gypsum formation start to create caves and voids in less than a century.

in these areas in fact cave waters can generally be followed from their sinking points down to their springs crossing important and accessible cave sys- tems .

a clear example of dilution process occurred is autumn 2010 when we observed71.43 mgl of no2- in the sinking stream e10 and 51.58 mgl in the spring e11.the tds concentration of the waters from the gaibola cave system c15-c18 is clearly over the who limit 1 gl and the nitrate concen- tration slightly decreases moving from the cave stream to the spring.

e10 reaches total coliform values close to 4 autumn 2012 and 2.2-2.3 log ufcml autumn 2014 while e11 in autumn 2012 exceeds 4 log ufcml.in an overall view the high total coliform distribution in sinking streams e06-e10 might be linked to remobilization of by-products re- lated to human activities cattle raising agricultural crops sewage pipes while the high values in the spring points is probably related to the interaction between water and guano deposits inside the cave along the flow path.also in onferno cave f01-04 there are high nitrate concentrations and microbial contamination mainly due to the presence of bat colonies .

4. classification of waters in the ludwig-langelier diagram a. all samples b. sinking streams c. caves d. springs.the emilia romagna gypsum aquifer systemsall the studied evaporite aquifer systems are composed of well- karstified units in which surface water enters the soluble rocks along sinking streams or dolines flows underground along cave passages and ends its subterranean flow at springs.

as a matter of fact most waters are of the calcic-sulfate type but some sinking streams classify as calcic-bicarbonic and only poiano a01 falls in the field of the sodium-chloride waters according to the ludwig-langelier diagram .we observed a hydrochemistry homogenization of water flows from sinking streams to springs commonly observed in karst systems from all over the world and in different kinds of lithologies e.g.

legend 1. messinian gypsum outcrops 2. sinking and in-cave water sampling points and their id 3. spring water samples 4. cave systems 5. doline contours.

legend 1. messinian gypsum outcrops 2. in-cave water sampling points and their id 3. spring water samples 4. cave systems 5. doline contours.

most studies on water quality in karst focused on domestic ground- water resources have been concentrated on carbonate areas especially those where important springs are connected to aqueducts and deliver water to important cities  .

the blue lines with the arrows show perennial external water flows dashed blue lines illustrate underground water flow.the hydrogeology of these gypsum karsts has been studied from a rather general point of view starting in the 70s  and espe- cially during the 80s   with dye tests geostructural and speleological studies and some water analysis.

some episodes of pollution with nitrates and am- monium have been documented in the acquafredda-spipola cave  and at tanone cave spring  while nitrates due to agricultural activities have been registered at rio stella sinking stream .

a. re tiberio cave system in the romagnola gypsum vein along the senio river b. rio stella-basino in the romagnola gypsum vein c. onferno cave system in rimini province.

on the other hand onferno is famous for its bat colonies with six species of bats miniopterus schreibersii myotis blythii myotis myotis rhinolophus euryale rhinolophus ferrumequinum rhinolophus hipposideros the first four use the cave for reproduction spring-sum- mer while the other two use the cave to get through the winter hiber- nation state .

