in these tissues il-6 con- trol  75 - 9 pgml giardia  515 - 391 pgml tnf-a control  35 - 5 pgml giardia  188 - 96 pgml ifn-c control  51 -6 pgml giardia  752 - 614 pgml and il-17 control 98 - 60 pgml giardia  467 - 274 pgml saw their mean concentra-tions raised by more than 8 5 14 and 4-fold respectively supple- mentary table s1.giardia reduces the thickness of human microbiota biofilms ex vivo and alters the biofilm extracellular matrixin an attempt to further characterise the alterations to micro- biota biofilms induced by exposure to g. duodenalis we assessed changes in phenotype and bacterial composition of the bacterial communities.

the data illustrate that giardia reduces the extra-cellular exopolysaccharide matrix of human intestinal microbiota biofilms an effect not seen when the biofilms were exposed to non-pathogenic escherichia coli b. c spectrofluoro- metric assay using wheat-germ agglutinin dye for the quantification of extracel- lular matrix in microbiota biofilms exposed to fresh stsy control or giardia spent medium g spent medium mbbf in the presence or absence of e-64 a membrane impermeable broad-spectrum cysteine protease inhibitor g spent medium mbbf  e-64.

we specifically aimed to i assess the com- munity composition and structure of human microbiota biofilms following exposure to giardia ii investigate the impact of g. duodenalis-perturbed microbiota biofilms in vivo using human- ized germ-free mice and iii determine whether giardia interac- tions with human microbiota biofilms may induce changes in epithelial monolayer integrity and function.

representative pictures of colon tissue stained with he from mice receiving either control biofilms combbf a or those exposed to giardia gmbbf b. the average number c and average size d recorded blindly of colonic lymphocyte follicles per microscopic field 200x in groups of mice receiving control microbiota biofilms combbf and mice receiving giardia-exposed microbiota biofilms gmbbf 2four different fields were analysed per animal.

in an attempt to further iden- tify the mechanisms of epithelial pathophysiology induced by enteropathogen-modified microbiota biofilms we then assessed the consequences of exposure to giardia-modified microbiota con- stituents on tight junctional zo-1 on tlr4 expression and on the production of pro-inflammatory cxcl-8.epithelial monolayers incubated with planktonic communities from control microbiota biofilms exhibited normal membrane dis- tribution of zo-1 b. in contrast monolayers incubated with planktonic bacteria from biofilms exposed to giardia spent med- ium showed reduction in tight junctional zo-1 expression b. these changes were accompanied by a significant reduc-3fig.

b-diversity was assessed using the bray-curtis distance metric and while samples showed large within group variation the largest source of variation between groups was treatment withgiardia c. a-diversity was measured using the shannondiversity index and microbiota in faeces from mice receiving giar- dia-treated biofilms had greater a-diversity than those mice receiving control biofilms d p  0.01 by mann-whitney u- test.giardia-modified biofilms promote the formation of mucosal b lymphocyte follicles and increase the production of pro-inflammatory cytokineshistological examination of colonic morphology in mice receiv- ing human microbiota biofilms revealed lymphocyte aggregations within the colonic mucosa of animals reconstituted with gmbbf communities a and b. upon blind scoring the number and size of the lymphocyte follicles were determined to be more numerous and larger respectively in animals receiving gmbbf communities c and d. immunohistochemistry revealed the lymphocyte follicles to be encompassed primarily by b lym- phocyte populations and not t cells e.another set of studies examined levels of important pro- inflammatory mediators il-6 il-1b and tnf-a as well as ifn-c supplementary table s1.

2. community profiles of faecal microbiota of germ-free mice reconstituted with human microbiota biofilms mice were given either untreated microbiota control or microbiota challenged with giardia duodenalis giardia.

following a 72 h growth period microbiota biofilms were subject to either control conditions fresh stsy medium escherichia coli exposure to giardia or exposure to giardia g spent medium.

a represen- tative scanning electron micrographs of microbiota biofilms exposed to fresh stsy medium control mbbf or live giardia trophozoites giardia mbbf.

b spectrofluorometric assay using wheat-germagglutinin dye for the quantification of extracellular matrix in control microbiota mucosal biofilms control mbbf those exposed to live giardia trophozoites giardia mbbf and those exposed to live commensal escherichia coli e. coli mbbf.

caco-2 monolayers co-incubated for 24 h with planktonic constituents of microbiota biofilms exposed to giardia spent medium caco-2  giardia mbbplank exhibited significantly higher rates of apoptosis compared with cells incubated with microbiota biofilm communities exposed to fresh stsy caco-2  control mbbplank.

finally planktonic bac- teria from biofilms exposed to giardia spent medium significantly induced increased epithelial cxcl-8 production an effect that was also cysteine protease-dependent .based on our current study we propose that giardia may alter the structure and composition of human intestinal microbiota bio- films and that bacteria from these dysbiotic microbiota in turn can cause epithelial and intestinal abnormalities after the enteropatho- gen has been cleared.

exposure of human microbiota biofilms to giardia and giardia spent medium resulted in a significant reduction in ecm.

cell monolayers were challenged with planktonic constituents released from microbiota biofilms either exposed to giardia spent medium or fresh stsy control in the presenceabsence of broad-spectrum e-64 pre-treatment on trophozoites for 24 h and immunoblotted for zo-1 a. western blots densitometry and representative blots images illustrate that caco-2 monolayers co-incubated with planktonic constituents released from giardia spent medium- exposed microbiota biofilm communities contain significantly decreased zo-1 protein levels.

following a 72 h growth period microbiota biofilms were subjected to either control conditions fresh stsy medium and either control conditions control mbbplank whereby no exposure to giardia occured or fresh stsy medium or exposure to giardia spent medium where trophozoites had been pre-treated with cysteine protease inhibitor e-64 or not or exposure to the known pro-inflammatory cytokine il1 beta.

