The stearic color is representing significant change in respective group compared to control group - as green color is indicating Rb3 and dark-blue color is indicating Rd group B Showing average relative abundance of all families that significantly enriched or declined with Rb3 treatment.

Similarly the growth of several Lactobacillus species greatly promoted with Rb3 and Rd treatments compare to control group Table .

Bacteroides acidifaciens is a renowned probiotic species that was abundantly detected in Rb3 106 increase and Rd 292 increase treated groups compared to con- trol group.

Especially the abundances of species from genera Butyricimonas Campylobacter Dysgonomonas Fusobacterium and Helicobacter were lower in Rb3 Rd treated mice compared to control group Table .

Thus in this study two purified compounds gypenoside Rb3 and gypenoside Rd of Gp were investigated for the cancer protec- tive effects and the impact on GM in the ApcMin colorectal cancer mouse model.

The unique species detected in the Rd-treated group constituted 1 of the total OTUs in Rd group.

Shared species are represented as inter-connected strokes and unique species are shown as outward strokes - uniquely present to each group.

Similarly in the Rd treated group Bacteroidetes is the most abundant phylum whereas Proteobacteria is the most diverse phylum with 25 unique species in term of unique species.DiscussionMore than 150 different types of saponins have been identified for anti-cancer properties.

OPENReceived 26 May 2017Accepted 13 September 2017 Published xx xx xxxxGinsenosides Rb3 and Rd reduce polyps formation while reinstate the dysbiotic gut microbiota and the intestinal microenvironment in ApcMin miceGuoxin Huang1 Imran Khan1 Xiaoang Li1 Lei Chen3 Waikit Leong1 Leung Tsun Ho2 L. Wendy Hsiao1Studies showed that manipulation of gut microbiota GM composition through the treatment of prebiotics could be a novel preventive measure against colorectal cancer CRC development.

In conclusion ginsenosides Rb3 and Rd exerted anti-cancer effects by holistically reinstating mucosal architecture improving mucosal immunity promoting beneficial bacteria and down-regulating cancer-cachexia associated bacteria.CRC is ranked second among all the cancer incidences worldwide.

