This study identified Clostridium scindens Clostridium saccharolyticum Moryella indoligenes Pseudoflavonifractor capillosus Por- phyromonas catoniae Barnesiella intestinihominis Clostridium populeti Blautia hanseniiand Eubacterium eligens as being protective against CDI .

Indeed models known to develop spontaneous colitis including interleukin 10 IL-10- and T cell receptor-deficient mice do not develop colitis if they are raised under germfree conditions  indicating that aberrant immune responses to a deregulated microbiota play a role in inciting colitis.

Fecal microbiota transplantation has already shown some efficacy in the treatment of both these disorders detailed comparisons of studies evaluating commensal and probiotic organisms in the context of these dis- parate gastrointestinal diseases may shed light on potential protective mechanisms and elucidate how future microbial therapies can be tailored to particular diseases.KEYWORDS Clostridium difficile fecal microbiota transplantation microbiota probiotics ulcerative colitisINTRODUCTIONecal microbiota transplantation FMT is an effective and promising therapy for a number of gastrointestinal GI diseases including Clostridium difficile infection CDI and inflammatory bowel disease IBD.

In vitro inhibition of Clostridium difficile and Clostridium perfringens by commercial probiotic strains.

Transient flare of ulcerative colitis after fecal microbiota transplantation for recurrent Clostridium difficile infection.

Isolation of Clostridium difficile from the environment and con- tacts of patients with antibiotic-associated colitis.

Profound alterations of intestinal microbi- ota following a single dose of clindamycin results in sustained suscep- tibility to Clostridium difficile-induced colitis.

Treatment with intravenously administered gamma globulin of chronic relapsing colitis induced by Clostridium difficile toxin.

Gamma globulin administration in relapsing Clostridium difficile-induced pseudomem- branous colitis with a defective antibody response to toxin A. Acta Clin Belg 5036 -39.

Intravenous immunoglobulin in the treatment of severe Clostridium difficile colitis.

