although this region has not been identified as essential for survival our tran- scriptome data shows that a continuous surveillance of this defense mechanism remains activated in b. breve also under standard laboratory conditions sug- gesting that this system is active additional file figure s3 panel b. along with crisprcas genesrestrictionmodification rm systems play a signifi- cant role in evading the acquisition of foreign dna in b. breve ucc2003 which is equipped with two complete bbrii bbriii and one partially functioning bbri systems  of these three it has been shown that only the methylase component is essential for bacterial survival  we observed that all these genes are transcribed at low level 2 fold above background level in our dataset bbr0216 bbr1119 and bbr1121 apparently ensuring a permanentdefault protection of the bacterial chromosome from their partner endonucleases additional file table s3.housekeeping srna transcription and riboswitches in b. brevethe genome-wide transcriptional analysis conducted in this study allowed the annotation of a set of intergenic regions that may encompass srnas with housekeeping andor regulatory functions in b. breve such as rnasep transfer- messenger rna tmrna and 4.5s rna table .based on our analysis we assigned rnasep to a346 bp highly transcribed intergenic region 50 fold with associated promoter and rho-independent termin- ator additional file table s2additional file figure s4 panel a. with regards to the transfer-messengerrna tmrna table we assigned this element to a 396 bp highly transcribed intergenic region 50 fold also in this case characterized by a promoter and a rho- independent termination signal additional file table s2 additional file figure s4 panel b.in the case of signal recognition particle rna srp or 4.5s rna we assigned this srna to a 104 bp highly transcribed region 50 fold and we were able to identify the corresponding promoter while the as- sociated transcriptional terminator is characterized by a stem loop structure additional file table s2 additional file figure s4 panel c. it is worth men- tioning that the alignment of this dataset with the tradis outcome  showed that no insertions are present in these particular regions indicating thattable 1 transfer rna transcription in b. brevetable 2 novel srna identified in b. brevelocustagannotationbbrtrna1-2trnas ala ilesrnagenomecoordinates ucc2003strandannotationbbr trna3trna leubbr trna4trna glybbr trna5-6trnas glu glnrnasep1474615-1474960forward ribonuclease ptmrna1563425-1563820forward transfer messenger rna 4.5s rna251225-251328forward signal recognition particlerna srpbbr trna7trna serbbr trna8trna lysbbr trna9trna lysbbrtrna11trna metbbr trna12trna argbbr trna13trna glybbr trna14-15trnas leu thrbbr trna16trna argfmnriboswitchtppriboswitchykokleader1655817-1655970forward flavin mononucleotideriboswitch886294-886401forward thiamine pyrophosphateriboswitch t-box541771-541928reverse metal-sensing rna m-boxbbr trna17trna hisbbr trna19trna leubbr trna20trna leubbr trna22trna glnbbr trna23-24trnas alabbr trna25-26trnas argbbr trna27trna leubbr trna28-32trnas glycysvalbbr trna33trna probbr trna34-35trnas asnbbr trna38trna aspbbr trna39-40trnas pheaspbbr trna41trna glubbr trna42trna probbr trna43trna serbbr trna44trna serbbr trna45trna serbbr trna47-48trnas thrtyrbbr trna49-51trnas valglybbr trna52trnas trpbbr trna53trna alathese regions are essential to b. breve additional file figure s4 panels a-c.as regards small regulatory rna elements our ana- lysis identified three previously not characterized in bifi- dobacteria a flavin mononucleotide fmn a thiamine pyrophosphate tpp or t-box and a ykok riboswitch.

altogether this study has generated a detailed and robust dataset to be used as a reference for transcription in the genus bifidobacterium.additional filesabbreviationsatp adenosine triphosphate cds coding sequence cog clusters of orthologous groups crispr clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats dna deoxyribonucleic acid ecf energy coupling factor fdr false discovery rate fmn flavin mononucleotidegdna genomic dna mrna messenger rna mrs de man rogosa and sharpe medium ngs next generation sequencing orf open reading frame rm restrictionmodification rf random forest rna ribonucleic acid rnap rna polymerase rna-seq rna sequencing rpkm reads per kilobase of transcript per million of reads rrna ribosomal rna srna small rna tf transcriptional factor tmrna transfer messenger rnatss transcriptional start site tts transcriptional termination site utr untranslated regionacknowledgementswe thank genprobio ltd. for the support of the laboratory of probiogenomics.

in the case of the identified fmn riboswitch we located the expression of this element in the 5'-utr region of two genes locus tags bbr1328-29 resembling the modular organization of an energy coupling factor ecf transporter additional file figure s5 panel a. of these bbr1328 belongs to the cog3601 family ofriboflavin transport while bbr1329 constitutes an abc transporter and atpase of a putative ecf suggest- ing the involvement of these genes and fmn riboswith in the transport of this particular b vitamin.in the case of tpp-sensing riboswitch or t-box we assigned it to an expressed 5'-utr region of an operon involved in thiamine biosynthesis bbr0674-77 sug- gesting also in this case its involvement in the regulation of these genes additional file figure s5 panel b.finally in the case of the ykok leader or m-box mg2 metal-sensingrna we identified this element in an expressed region located at the 5'-utr of an abc trans- porter bbr0406-07 where the permease-encoding gene bbr0407 belongs to the category cog4986 of inorganic ion transport suggesting also in this case the involvement of these genes in bacterial metal ion homeostasis additional file figure s5 panel c.altogether these observations show the expression of a number of housekeeping rnas and regulatory rna elements in b. breve suggesting the possibility of a new level of rna-mediated regulation of gene expression also in members of this genus.conclusionscomparison of transcriptomic data obtained by tiling ar- rays and rna-seq showed reproducibility between these two technologies but also revealed the benefit of using a combination of these two approaches in investigating gene expression.

it also showed that there may be other strategies of transcriptional termination respon- sible for modulating gene expression in b. breve.furthermore the alignment of our dataset with a re- cently published study on the essential genes of b. breve demonstered how the vast majority of those also appear to be expressed in our dataset in particular those house- keeping genes of which orthologues can be found across the bifidobacterium genus.finally our analysis also allowed the identification of a number housekeeping srnas and regulatory rna ele- ments not previously identified in b. breve ucc2003 or other bifidobacterial species indicating that rna- mediated regulation of gene expression also occurs in this organism and genus.

rna concentration and puritywere evaluated by picodrop microlitre spectrophotom- eter picodrop uk.for rna sequencing 2.5 mg of total rna was treated by the ribo-zero magnetic kit illumina to remove ribosomal rna followed by purification of the rrna- depleted sample by ethanol precipitation.

our findings therefore indicate that also in bifidobacteria convergent transcription is a strategy to modulate gene expression.the transcriptome analysis performed in this study also allowed an investigation into the main features asso- ciated with tus in b. breve which may also apply to bifidobacteria in general.

bacterial rna was directly labelled follow- ing isolation without cdna synthesis with cy5 red channel using the kreatech agilent rna labeling kit ea-023.

rna was further purified by phenol extraction and etha- nol precipitation quality and integrity of the rna was checked by the tape station 2200 agilent tech- nologies usa analysis.

panel a also allowing a more accurate classification of genes based on fold-change or fc level of rna signal strength vs gdna baseline compared to rpkm the 22 bp sliding window used to design the array probes introduced a degree of uncertainty in the deter- mination of the exact transcriptional start site tss al- though a precise location of the tss could in most cases be verified by rna-seq information see below.

panel a.from a closer inspection of the cog categories it also appears that between 40 and 50 of those essential and highly transcribed genes in b. breve are assigned to func- tions involved in translation ribosomal structures and biogenesis rna processing and modification as well as intracellular trafficking and secretion fig.

together with the expression of two rrna loci in b. breve ucc2003 our analysis also con- firmed the constitutively high transcription of 47 of a total of 53 predicted transfer rna genes specified by b. breve ucc2003 table these predicted trnas are organized in 38 loci evenly distributed along the bacter- ial chromosome and their essentiality for this organism has previously been reported the alignment of our transcriptome data with the tradis-mediated essential gene outcome confirmed a constitutive expression for the trna-encoding genes specific for 20 amino acids inbreve especially in case where multiple copies of these genes 3 copies are present trnas encoding for leucine glycine arginine valine serine and alanine additional file table s3.another intriguing feature revealed by our dataset is the constitutive transcription of the crisprcasrandom forest analysis32.521.510.50spacer optimum 17 bphigh expressionb-35-10fig.

rrna and trna spe- cifying genes of other bacteria such as e. coli and bacil- lus subtilis as previously reported rho-independent terminators preceeded by polya and followed by polyt sequences may be responsible for controlling transcriptional termination of convergently transcribed operonsgenes within a given dna region additional file figure s2 panel a. how- ever we also noticed that the lack of a polya sequence in these elements may restrict the termination to one strand only additional file figure s2 panel b .as rho-independent terminators seem to represent the most frequently adopted strategy by bifidobacterium breve ucc2003 to achieve transcriptional termination especially of highly transcribed operons we also ob- served that ttss often locate at gc-rich stem-loops structures not otherwise classified as rho-independent terminators.

panel b. this is also con- sistent with our result in rf analysis showing that the gc content of the -10 region is the classifier that most substantially impacts on transcription in b. breve.transcription of essential genes in b. breveto further analyse the obtained transcriptome informa- tion we wanted to combine the results of our tran- scriptomics findings with tradis sequencing findings conducted to determine the essential genes in b. breve the alignment with this dataset was conducted based on the presumption that genes essential in b.breve should also be expressed in our transcriptomic data.

however 76 of the total of highly expressed genes is also essential in b. breve confirming the hypothesis that the vast majority of essential house- keeping genes also appear to be highly expressed in b. breve fig.

in this context akey role is played by the rna polymerase rnap which is responsible for gene transcription.

