applying this strategy to microbiome data from type 2 diabetes patients reveals a context-specific infrastructure of the gut microbial ecosystem core microbial entities with large metabolic influence and frequently produced metabolic compounds that might indicate relevant community metabolic processes.

furthermore inherent microbial activities involving the import of metabolic nutrients and export of metabolic byproducts give rise to both competition for resources and cooperative relationships such as metabolic cross-feeding among resident microorganisms in the gutenvironment.

despite ongoing computational efforts to describe microbial interactions using biologicallyrealistic manually curated constraint-based or simplified kinetic metabolic models most of these models have not yet reached the scale of diversity in the gut community which typically comprises hundreds of different microbial speciesit is noteworthy that this scale of microbial diversity has been recently covered by semi-automatically generated constraint- based metabolic models.here we present a global interspecies metabolic interaction network of the human gut microbiota njs16.

for example in our min e. rectale was found to have a metabolic influence to 25 different microbial entities hence its community metabolic influence fi is quantified as 25. next we measured the community metabolic influences of all microbial entities in min 5a.

overall if a microbial entity i is found to have a highergrowth-promoting capability than a growth-inhibiting capabilitytowards another microbial entity j then wij 4 0 and we classify this interaction as having a net positive metabolic influence if there is a higher growth-inhibiting capability than a growth- promoting capability then wij o 0 and we classify this interaction as having a net negative metabolic influence.

metabolic influence wij  0 microbe-to-host metabolic influencemacromolecule degradation metabolite exportfigure 4  min among the most representative microbial entities of t2d in a given demographic cohort.

for example a member of the propionibacterium genus produces riboflavin for lactobacillus delbrueckii in the min.apart from the positive metabolic influence relationships examined above the min also includes links of net negative metabolic influence.

in the influence network shown in 4 the observation of hubs which are microbial entities that exert a metabolic influence to a relatively higha 0.300.250.040.030.020.01b1.00.80.60.40.20.0c 1.00.80.60.40.20.0061218243036424854community metabolic influence id 0.40.30.20.10.00.0infln-infltop five frequently produced metabolitestop five frequently produced metabolitesfigure 5  characteristics of the min.

the community metabolic influence fi of each microbial entity i was found for all nodes of the influence network 4 and its probability distribution is shown in a. this plot was used to identify microbial entities with relatively large metabolic influences specifically a transition point was chosen after a drop-off in the probability density of community influences methods.

c top five most frequently produced metabolites by microbial entities differentially abundant in non-diabetic control acetate 77.8 co2 55.6 lactate 55.6 propionate 44.4 and butyrate 44.4. d top five most frequently produced metabolites by microbial entities differentially abundant in t2d acetate 25.6 co2 21.4 nh3 14.5 h2s 14.5 and ethanol 10.3. differences in these two sets of metabolites could suggest insights into metabolic processes associated with a t2d gut microbial ecosystem.number of other microbial entities prompted us to explore whether a hidden hierarchy of metabolic influence exists within the microbial communities.

substrate- dependent product formation interdependency of different metabolic pathways and end-product inhibition of cell growth have yet to be considered and these would be better described by constraint-based genome-scale metabolic models.

thus our work calls for the need to develop high-throughput quantitative techniques for identifying and validating specific functions for example import and export of metabolites and release of public goods from macromolecule degradation and microbial metabolic interactions for example cross-feeding mechanisms and positivenegative metabolic influ- ences on a global scale specifically within in vivo environments.

beyond metabolic interactions focused on by this study considering quorum sensing molecules virulencefactors and genes for metabolic traits and transporters passed along in horizontal gene transfer would be another interesting avenue to pursue using network-based approaches.ultimately gut microbiome analyses will evolve beyond descriptive profiling investigations towards more hypothesis- driven mechanism-focused studies.

further details of wij including its formulation the incorporation of macromolecule degradation and the determi- nation of a are presented in supplementary methods.next we found that a potential metabolic influence of one microbial groupg on another microbial group g each group is either a genus or metabolic clique is the weighted sum of wlq species l in group g and species q in group g with each weight being proportional to species q's abundance supplementary methods.

fij serves as an estimate of entity i's overall metabolic influence on entity j.next the community-level metabolic influence of entity i fi is defined as the number of entity j's that satisfy fi z yf yf is a constant determined insupplementary methods.

