our work provides evidence for a core eelgrass root microbiome with putative functional roles and highlights potentially disparate processes influencing microbial community assembly on different plant compartments.importance plants depend critically on their associated microbiome yet the struc- ture of microbial communities found on marine plants remains poorly understood in comparison to that for terrestrial species.

to determine the relative contributions of potential microbial colonization sources we also characterized the surrounding environments by sampling seawater and sediment microbial communities adjacent to each collected eelgrass host.

we then determined whether host-associated microbial communities were more similar to the microbial com- munity in the adjacent environment than to that of all other seagrass beds by comparing intercentroid distances against the distributions generated from 1000 permutations of the randomized data set.

microbial ecologyglobal-scale structure of the eelgrass microbiomeashkaan k. fahimipoura melissa r. kardishb jenna m. langc jessica l. greenae jonathan a. eisenbcd john j. stachowiczbinstitute of ecology and evolution university of oregon eugene oregon usaa department of evolution and ecology university of california davis davis california usab genome center university of california davis davis california usac department of medical microbiology and immunology university of california davis davis california usad santa fe institute santa fe new mexico usaeabstract plant-associated microorganisms are essential for their hosts' survival and performance.

here we report the re- sults of a global-scale analysis of microbial communities associated with leaf and root surfaces of the marine eelgrass zostera marina throughout its range in the northern hemisphere.

by contrasting host microbiomes with those of surrounding seawater and sediment we uncovered the structure composition and variability of microbial communities associated with eelgrass.

the return of terrestrial seagrass ancestors to oceans is among the most extreme habitat shifts documented in plants making them an ideal testbed for the study of microbial symbioses with plants that experi- ence relatively harsh abiotic conditions.

in this study we report the results of a global sampling effort to extensively characterize the structure of microbial commu- nities associated with the widespread seagrass species zostera marina or eelgrass across its geographic range.

our results reveal major differences in the structure and composition of above- versus belowground microbial communities on eelgrass sur- faces as well as their relationships with the environment and host.keywords phyllosphere-inhabiting microbes plant-microbe interactions rhizosphere-inhabiting microbes seagrasshe health and performance of plants are often modulated by their associated microbiomes.

the drivers of plant microbiome structure and composition and the ways in which plant hosts acquirejune 2017 volume 83 issue 12 e03391-16applied and environmental microbiology 1microorganisms from surrounding microbial species pools therefore have conse- quences for ecosystem dynamics biodiversity and agricultural productivity .

recent studies have identified critical associations between host and environmental factors and patterns of microbial community structure on plant compartments such as leaves e.g.

yet most plant microbiome studies to date have focused on terrestrial species    while patterns in the structure and composition of microbial communities associated with marine plants remain poorly understood by comparison.seagrasses are the only flowering plants that live entirely in a marine environment.

therefore z. marina is an ideal testbed for the study of microbial symbioses with plant hosts that uniquely exploit relatively harsh environments.

given that human activities are changing the nutrient conditions in habitats worldwide  and the central role of microorganisms in plant nutrition    there is a pressing need to answer basic empirical questions about microbial associates of plants such as seagrasses that experience atypical abiotic conditions including questions about their geographic distributions putative community assembly patterns and functional roles.much of our current knowledge of seagrass symbionts comes from targeted surveys of specific bacterial taxa using culture-dependent methods and microscopy under laboratory conditions or from field studies at local or regional spatial scales e.g.

while culture- independent techniques have been used to describe the microbiome composition in seagrass-colonized marine sediments  an extensive characterization of in situ seagrass leaf and root surface microbiomes across the host's geographic range is still lacking leaving potentially important but unculturable microorganisms overlooked and making it difficult to identify general patterns in seagrass symbiont community struc- ture taxonomic cooccurrence and community assembly.here we report the results of a comprehensive analysis of microbial communities associated with leaf and root surfaces of individual z. marina plants spanning their geographic range throughout the northern hemisphere.

