Analogous to human GUS which catabolizes extracellular matrix polysaccharides in lysosomes bacterial GI GUS enzymes play similar roles with substrates like chondroi- tin sulfate that enter the GI from host cells sloughed from the epithelia 50.

Xylan complexity appears to require a diverse set of microbial xylanases to catabolize them to release smaller glu- curonic acid-containing sugars further processed by intestinal bacteria 79.Microbial -glucuronidases in the gutSeveral investigations have detected in vitro GUS activity ex vivo fecal GUS activity and in vivo correlations between GI GUS enzyme activity and health.

7-22 Academic Press Inc. San DiegoRoberts M. S. Magnusson B. M. Burczynski F. J. and Weiss M. 2002 Enterohepatic circulation physiological pharmacokinetic and clinical im- plications.

43 481- 485Little J. M. Kurkela M. Sonka J. Jantti S. Ketola R. Bratton S. Finel M. and Radominska-Pandya A.

B. Pollet R. M. Ingle J. D. Biernat K. A. Pellock S. J. Venkatesh M. K. Guthrie L. O'Neal S. K. Robinson S. J. Dollinger M. Figueroa E. McShane S. R. Cohen R. D. Jin J. et al.

Examples of chemically diverse endogenous and exogenous glucuronides glucuronic acid shown in green generated by mammalian UGT enzymes and metabolized by GI microbial GUS enzymes.metabolism by bacteria is reabsorbed through the GI epithelia and undergoes enterohepatic circulation 18.

Exog- enous glucuronides that reach the GI are diverse in chemical structure suggesting that a proportional breadth of functional diversity may be present in the collection of microbial GUS enzymes in the GI Table 1 and Fig.

SN-38 is inactivated in the liver by conversion to SN-38-glucuronide SN-38-G in the GI lumen however microbial GUS enzymes recreate SN-38 and cause severe GI toxicity in the form of dose- limiting diarrhea.

The NSAID diclofenac is conju- gated to glucuronic acid by UGT2B7 in the liver delivered to the GI tract via the bile duct and hydrolyzed by bacterial GUS enzymes in the GI 61 62.

Thus GI microbial GUS enzymes have the capability of directly regulat- ing local and systemic levels of exogenous and endogenous compounds involved in mammalian homeostasis.Endogenous glucuronides in the gutEndogenous glucuronides were clearly the driving force for the symbiotic evolution of host-associated bacterial GUS enzymes.

