although enhanced nrf2 signaling has shown promising results in several animal studies the synthetic nrf2 inducers have caused adverse cardiac events and gastrointestinal toxicities in clinical trials 1213. these observations prompted us to explore a safer nrf2 inducer for the treatment of obesity insulin resistance and nafld.sulforaphane an isothiocyanate derived from cruciferous vegetables is one of the most potent naturally occurring nrf2 inducers this compound exhibits anticancer activity in cancer cell lines and in carcinogen-induced rodent models 14. among the cruciferous vegetables broccoli sprouts are the best source of glucoraphanin a stable glucosinolate precursor of sulforaphane 15. in both rodents and humans glucoraphanin is hydrolyzed by gut microbiota-derived myrosinase into bioactive sulforaphane prior to intestinal absorption 16. a recent clinical study demonstrated the safety of orally administered glucoraphanin 17. in the present study we examined the dietary glucoraphanin-mediated modulation of systemic energy balance and the mitigation of chronic inflammation insulin resistance and nafld in diet-induced obese mice.research design and methods glucoraphanin preparationthe sulforaphane precursor glucoraphanin was prepared as previously describedwith minor modifications.

1g.glucoraphanin improves diet-induced insulin resistance and glucose toleranceafter 14 weeks of feeding glucoraphanin supplementation did not affect plasmatriglycerides total cholesterol and free fatty acid ffa levels in either nc- or hfd-fed mice table 1. on nc blood glucose levels were not altered by glucoraphanin but on the hfd glucoraphanin-treated mice exhibited significantly lower fasted blood glucose compared with vehicle-treated controls table 1. additionally glucoraphanin significantly decreased plasma insulin concentrations in hfd-fed mice under both fasted and fed conditions resulting in lower homeostatic model assessment-insulin resistance homa-ir table 1. during the insulin tolerance test itt glucoraphanin significantly enhanced the reduction in blood glucose levels in hfd-fed mice but not in nc-fed mice compared with the vehicle-treated controls fig.

thewater extract was mixed with dextrinized cornstarch and subsequently spray-dried to yield an extract powder containing 135 mg of glucoraphanin per gram 0.31 mmolg 18. the total glucoraphanin titer in the resulting powder was determined by hplc as previously reported 19.mice and dietsmale c57bl6jslc mice were purchased from japan slc hamamatsu japan at 7 weeks of age.

nrf2-knockout nrf2-- mouse strain rbrc01390 c57bl6j background was provided by riken brc tsukuba japan 6. after a week of acclimation mice were fed normal chow nc containing 2.2 dextrinized cornstarch 10 kcal from fatd12450b research diets new brunswick nj nc containing 0.3 glucoraphanin nc- gr containing 2.2 extract powder a high-fat diet hfd containing 2.2 dextrinized cornstarch 60 kcal from fat d12492 research diets or a hfd containing 0.3 glucoraphanin hfd-gr containing 2.2 extract powder for 14 weeks.

if one-way anovas were significant differences between individual groups were estimated using a bonferroni post hoc test all calculations were performed using spss statistics v19.0 ibm armonk ny.resultsglucoraphanin decreases weight gain and adiposity and increases energy expenditure in high-fat diet hfd-fed miceto investigate the effects of glucoraphanin on systemic energy balance we examined the body weight of wild-type mice fed normal chow nc or a high-fat diet hfd supplemented with glucoraphanin or vehicle i.e.

2c.glucoraphanin does not exert anti-obesity and insulin-sensitizing effects in nrf2-- micealthough the keap1-nrf2 pathway is a well-known target of sulforaphane this isothiocyanate has also been reported to modulate different biological pathways independent of the keap1-nrf2 pathway 2425. to determine whether the anti-obesity and insulin-sensitizing effects of glucoraphanin are mediated through nrf2 the effects of glucoraphanin on energy balance and glucose metabolism were assessed in nc- and hfd-fed nrf2-- mice.

to examine whether the effects of glucoraphanin were fat cell-autonomous and nrf2-mediated we tested the effects of sulforaphane an active metabolite of glucoraphanin on the expression of brown fat-selective genes in primary beige adipocytes obtained from inguinal wat of wild-type and nrf2-- mice.

5d.glucoraphanin decreases circulating lps and the relative abundance of proteobacteria in the gut microbiomes of hfd-fed micegut microbiota-derived lps induces chronic inflammation that eventually leads to insulin resistance in obesity termed metabolic endotoxemia 12. based on our observation that glucoraphanin alleviates inflammation in the liver and epididymal wat of hfd-fed mice we subsequently investigated the effects of glucoraphanin on metabolic endotoxemia and gut microbiota.

our data suggest that in diet-induced obese mice glucoraphanin restores energy expenditure and limits gut-derived metabolic endotoxemia thereby preventing hepatic steatosis insulin resistance and chronic inflammation.consistent with previous reports demonstrating the anti-obesity effects of syntheticnrf2 inducers 9-11 we show that the oral administration of glucoraphanin mitigates hfd-induced weight gain fig.

the dose of glucoraphanin used in the current study about 12 umolmouseday is similar to that used in other experiments investigating its antitumor effects in mice 143233. here we show that the effect of glucoraphanin on whole-body energy expenditure and the protein expression of ucp1 in wat were abolished in nrf2-- mice fig.

a recent clinical study demonstrated that supplementation with a dietary dose of glucoraphanin 69 umolday for two months significantly decreased the plasma liver enzymes alt and ast although body mass did not change 18. long-term treatment with a higher dose of glucoraphanin 800 umolday which can be safely administeredwithout any harmful side effects 17 may be required to achieve an anti-obesity effect in humans.author contributionsn.n.

nc normal chow hfd high- fat diet gr glucoraphanin homa-ir homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance.figure legendsfigure 1--glucoraphanin reduces weight gain and increases energy expenditure in high-fat diet hfd-fed mice.

a body weight of mice fed normal chow nc white circles chow with glucoraphanin nc-gr black circles a high-fat diet hfd white triangles or hfd with glucoraphanin hfd-gr black triangles n  9group.

a body weight of nrf2-- mice fed normal chow nc white circles chow with glucoraphanin nc-gr black circles a high-fat diet hfd white triangles or hfd with glucoraphanin hfd-gr black triangles for 14 weeks.

glucoraphanin ameliorates obesity and insulin resistance through adipose tissue browning and reduction of metabolic endotoxemia in micerunning title anti-obesity effect of a natural nrf2 inducernaoto nagata1 liang xu1 susumu kohno2 yusuke ushida3 yudai aoki3 ryohei umeda3 nobuo fuke3 fen zhuge1 yinhua ni1 mayumi nagashimada1 chiaki takahashi2 hiroyuki suganuma3 shuichi kaneko4 and tsuguhito ota141department of cell metabolism and nutrition brainliver interface medicine research center kanazawa university kanazawa ishikawa 920-8640 japan2division of oncology and molecular biology cancer research institute kanazawauniversity kanazawa ishikawa 920-1192 japan3research and development division kagome co. ltd. 17 nishitomiyama nasushiobara tochigi 329-2762 japan4department of disease control and homeostasis kanazawa university graduate schoolof medical science kanazawa ishikawa 920-8640 japancorresponding authortsuguhito ota m.d.

