such a scenario has also been observed in other b. bifidum strains thus reinforcing a specific ecological role exploited by the members of this bifidobacterial taxon .recently other bifidobacterial cross-feeding strategies toward utilization of fucose have been discovered involving various b. bifidum as well as b. kashiwahonense and b. breve or b. longum subsp.

hydrolysis of complex sugars by specific bifidobacterial strains produces simple glycans that are utilized directly by the same bifidobacterial cells andor are metabolized by other bacterial cells belonging to different strainsspecies through cross-feeding or resource-sharing activities.derived oligomers of this substrate when cultivated with bacteroides ovatus owing to the extracellular xylan-degrading activity of b. ovatus thereby allowing efficient uptake of the produced xylo-oligosaccharides by a dedicated abc transporter encoded by many bifido- bacterial species .among the bifidobacterial communities that reside in the gut of infants or adults certain bifidobacterial species such as b. breve possess assimilation capabilities for a wide range of carbohydrates which include both dietary and host-derived glycans .the pan-genome of b. breve indeed highlights extensive but sometimes variable genetic capabilities with regard to the metabolism of carbohydrates including among others ribose and sucrose as well as the plant-derived polysaccharides starch galactan and cellodextrin .despite its extensive carbohydrate-processing abilities b. breve is not able to directly access mucin or hmos as carbon sources though it can utilize host-derived monooligosaccharides once they become available through hydrolytic activities of other bifidobacteria present in the human gut microbiota see below in this review .

recently additional cross-feeding activities have been observed between a set of bifidobacterial strains b. bifidum prl2010 b. breve 12l b. adolescentis 22l and b. thermophilum jcm7017 when cultivated on plant-derived glycans such as starch and xylan .

similarly other bifidobacteria for example b. pseudocatenulatum and bifidobacterium kashiwanohense display an ability to partially utilize hmos  and thus it is plausible that they can grow on this host glycan by cross-feeding activities that are dependent on other bifidobacterial hmo utilizers.functional contributions by bifidobacteria to the human gut glycobiome analysis of the human gut glycobiome in infants and adults has highlighted a pivotal contribu- tion of bifidobacteria.

in the gut glycobiomes of infants by contrast bifidobacteria are significantly contributing to the pool of ghs responsible for catabolism of milk-related carbohydrates such as lactose and hmos andor involved in mucin degradation .such findings are further supported by metatranscriptome data which revealed pronounced transcription of those bifidobacterial gh gene families predicted to be involved in complex plant carbohydrates as well as hmo and mucin degradation  thus clearly supporting the important functional roles exploited by bifidobacteria in the breakdown of various glycans in both the infant and adult human gut.the impact of bifidobacteria on the metabolism of dietary and host-derived glycans is also pivotal for the establishment and reinforcement of trophic relationships between members of the gut microbiota .simple altruisticegocentric activities of various bifidobacteria bifidobacterial populations establish several trophic interactions with each other as well as with other members of the gut microbiota leading to competition for or co-operative sharing of nutrients through typical cross-feeding behaviour.

notably the acquisition of these enzymes was predicted to have occurred during the early stages of b. adolescentis speciation indicating that the preference for starch metabolism already existed in immediate b. adoles- centis ancestors .by contrast the uptake system and the intracellular machinery required to metabolize alpha- 14-malto-oligosaccharides and alpha-16-isomalto-oligosaccharides gh1331 was shown to be ubiquitously present in bifidobacteria .dietary fibres may encompass xylan and xylo-oligosaccharides which can be accessed by members of the gut microbiota in different ways.

this suggests that certain bifidobacteria make an important contribution to gut microbiota homeostasis which may be elicited through host-microbe interactions andor their cross-talk with other members of the gut microbiota.this review covers biological knowledge on the coevolution trajectory followed by bifidobacteria and their hosts in terms of genetic adaptation to the mammalian gut and co-operative behavior exhibited by these microorganisms in order to gain access to glycan resources available in this environment.genomics explaining the saccharolytic features of bifidobacteriaduring the past 15 years our understanding of bifidobacterial biology has significantly advanced due to a high number of scientific publications highlights of which are among others the decoding of the first genome of b. longum subsp.

longum b. adolescentis and b. catenulatum suggests an adaptation of these bifidobacterial species to avegetarian or omnivorous dietconsistent with a more generalist ecological behavior.

however stachyose can only be partly degraded by members of this gh13 family.by contrast glycobiomes of certain bifidobacterial species such as b. bifidum and b. longum subsp.

in this context in silico analyses of genome sequences of bifidobacterium subspecies revealed that the presence of genes encoding the starchstarch-derivative-degrading enzymes mentioned above is not a conserved feature among human gut bifidobacterial strains but is largely confined to specific taxa and strains such as b. adolescentis  and b. breve .

the subsequent fermentative metabolism of these carbohydrates also produces metabolic end products such as acetate and lactate which in turn may act as substrates for other microbial gut colonizers in particular the butyrate-producing enteric bacteria .specific cases of cross-feeding activities among members of bifidobacterial communities have experimentally been demonstrated to occur between the infant-type bifidobacterial strains b. bifidum prl2010 and b. breve ucc2003 when these microorganisms are grown on sialyl lactose as the only carbon source .

infantis atcc15697 b. adolescentis 22l and b. breve 12l further confirmed the existence of cross-feeding activities between various bifidobacterial strains in the mammalian gut .

in this context specific infant-associated bifidobacteria such as b. longum subsp.

in this context the metabolic cross-feeding between b. adolescentis and lactate-utilizing butyrate-producing bacteria such as eubacterium hallii and anaerostipes caccae have been described .notably the more common role of bifidobacteria is cross feeding on simpler or solubilized glycansoligosaccharides.

one of the reasons as to why bifidobac- teria are such dominant and prevalent members of the early microbiota is that they may access glycans in the gut through mutualistic cross-feeding or resource-sharing activities which is indicative of 'social behavior' among bifidobacterial strains.commensal bifidobacteria bifidobacteria see  are dominant key gut commensals of humans that colonize their host very quickly following birth  although their relative abundance decreases following weaning and with ageing.

