although mait cells in hct grafts expressed ki67 at levels similar to those from healthy individuals ki67 healthy donors .38 n  5 pbsc grafts 1.30 n  6 p  .42 the fraction of ki67 mait cells had increased more than 10-fold in the recipient compared with the pbsc graft by day 10 after hct .we identified no difference in the fraction of ki67 mait cells after ma or nma hct .because mait cells efflux abcb1 substrate drugs  it was unknown if recipient mait cells could survive conditioning chemotherapy and contribute to early mait cell recovery or if early mait cell recovery was donor-derived.

in contrast we did not observe an association between mait cell reconstitution and the number of cd34 cells in the pbsc graft  or with the number of graft cd19 b cells which are required for neonatal mait cell accumulation supplementary figure s2 .to determine whether mait cells that are transferred in the pbsc graft contribute to mait cell recovery in the recip- ient we sequenced the trbv genes in mait cells isolated from an aliquot of the pbsc graft and from the recipient's blood n  5 and evaluated the fraction of sequences in the recip- ient that were also found in the pbsc graft.

incorporation of total body irradiation in conditioning use of an hla matched related compared with unrelated pbsc donor use of an hla matched compared with mismatched pbsc donor and the indication for transplant acute leukemia versus other diagnoses did not impact mait cell recovery supplementary figure s1.mait cells transferred in the hct graft contribute to mait cell reconstitutionwe considered that the variability in mait cell reconsti- tution between patients after hct could in part be due to differences in the numbers of mait cells transferred in the hct graft and that their in vivo activation and proliferation may account for the rapid and early increase in mait cell counts after hct.

togeth- er the data indicate that direct transfer of mait cells and possibly mait cell precursors in the donor pbsc graft con- tributes to mait cell recovery in the recipient.mait cell reconstitution is impaired after umbilical cord blood transplant and haploidentical pbsct with post- hct cyclophosphamidewe investigated the kinetics of mait cell recovery in re- cipients of umbilical cord blood ucb grafts which contain markedly lower numbers of mature mait cells than adult pbsc grafts .

the absolute mait cell count in pbsc graft samples is reported as mait cellskg recipient weight and was determined by multiplying the mait cell percentage in a viable cd45cd3 gate by the absolute graft cd3 count.mait cell isolationhealthy donor cd8 cells were enriched from ficoll-separated periph- eral blood mononuclear cells using the cd8 t cell isolation kit miltenyi auburn ca.

responder t cells were labeled with .5 mm cfse carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester 2.5 x 104 cfse-labeled responder t cells were stimu- lated with dynabeads cd3cd28 t cell expander dynal biotech invitrogen carlsbad ca and cultured with mait cells or responder t cells at a ratio of 11 12 14 and 18 mait-to-responder in round-bottom 96-well plates for 4 days.

because mait cell reconstitution is dependent on prolifera- tion of mait cells that are transferred in the hct graft we also investigated the impact of administration of post-hct cyclophosphamide for gvhd prophylaxis to recipients of haploidentical pbsct n  6 and found that like ducb hct recipients patients who received pbsct with post-hct cy- clophosphamide had poor mait cell recovery compared withrecipients of pbsc grafts without post-hct cyclophospha- mide .mait cells are activated by inflammatory cytokines but tcr stimulation is required for robust proliferationafter hct patients have a compromised gi mucosal barrier altered microbiota and release of inflammatory cytokines which could activate mait cells .

development of reproducible methods for detecting and quantitating mait cells in mucosal tissues will be pivotal in determining whether the increased risk of gvhd associated with low mait cell counts is because of their migration into inflamed sites before the presenta- tion of clinically apparent gvhd or if mait cells possess regulatory activity that decreases the risk of gvhd.examination of chemokine receptor expression on mait cells might provide additional insight into the mechanisms by which mait cell counts in blood fall before the onset of clin- ical acute gvhd.

to address this question we performed short tandem repeat pcr chimerism studies on cd3 t cells cd33 myeloid cells cd56 cells and sort-purified mait cells isolated from the blood of hct recipients.

mait cells identified as cd3cd8cd161hiva7.2 events and conventional t cells cd3cd8cd161lova7.2- events were sort purified from enriched cd8 t cells using a facs aria 2 flow sorter bd biosciences.activation and proliferation assaysisolated mait and conventional t cell subsets were activated or not with plate-bound acd3 okt3 ortho biotech bridge water nj and cultured in 96-well plates at 1 to 2 x 104 cellswell in 200 ml rpmi 1640 medium with 10 human serum penicillinstreptomycin b-mercaptoethanol and l-glutamine with or without cytokine supplementation.

blood and stool samples used for correlation of mait cell counts and bacterial abundance respectively were collected within a week of each other.in vitro suppressive assaymait cells identified as va7.2 cd161 cells and cd4 cd25- re- sponder t cells were sorted from the peripheral blood of 3 healthy donors.

we examined the trbv repertoire in mait cells that were isolated from the blood of hct recipients and found that trbv diversity was similar in healthy donors and pbsct recipients however in contrast to the stability of the tcr repertoire in mait cells from healthy donors  there was variability in trbv di- versity  sequence sharing  and the contribution of distinct trbv clonotypes  in the mait cell repertoire at different times after hct indicative of alteration in the clonal composition of mait cells over time in hct recipients.

after adjusting for the recipient age absolute neutrophil count donor type unrelated versus related and conditioning regimen ma versus nma we found that an increase in mait cell count in blood in the early post-hct period was associated with reduced risk of subsequent de- velopment of gvhd hazard ratio was .76 for acute gvhd for every 10 cellsml increase in mait counts 95 confidence interval .51 to 1.14 p  .18. in vitro studies demonstrated that activated mait cells suppressed proliferation of cd4 tfigure 6. mait counts are lower in hct recipients who develop grades iii to iv acute gvhd and activated mait cells suppress cd4 t cells in vitro.

biol blood marrow transplant 24 2018 242-251biologygraft-derived reconstitution of mucosal-associated invariant t cells after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantationabir bhattacharyya  laila-aicha hanafi  alyssa sheih  jonathan l. golob  sujatha srinivasan  michael j. boeckh  steven a. pergam  sajid mahmood kelsey k. baker  ted a. gooley  filippo milano  david n. fredricks  stanley r. riddell  cameron j. turtle 1 clinical research division fred hutchinson cancer research center seattle washington2 vaccine and infectious disease division fred hutchinson cancer research center seattle washington3 department of medicine university of washington seattle washington4 public health sciences division fred hutchinson cancer research center seattle washingtonarticle historyreceived 12 june 2017accepted 2 october 2017a b s t r a c t mucosal-associated invariant t mait cells express a semi-invariant va7.2 t cell receptor tcr that recog- nizes ligands from distinct bacterial and fungal species.

although the composition in the hct graft of conventional abt cell subsets has been shown to influence the incidence of immune-mediated complications of transplant  the roles of nonconventional t cell subsets in immune reconstitution after hct are poorly defined.financial disclosure see acknowledgments on page 250. correspondence and reprint requests abir bhattacharyya mbbs fracp mmed clinepi clinical research division fred hutchinson cancer research center 1100 fairview ave n. seattle wa 98109.e-mail address a. bhattacharyya.mucosal-associated invariant t mait cells comprise a subset of non-conventional t cells that are characterized by high expression of cd161 and rorg and a tcr comprising an invariant va7.2 tcra chain paired with 1 of a diverse rep- ertoire of tcrb chains.

