the composition of the microbiome varies in different disease states and it has been suggested that it may drive the pathophysiology of several neuroinflammatory diseases and influence the innate immune responses in neurodegenerative diseases .

recent studies in patients with multiple sclerosis schizophrenia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis have shown activation of these viral elements which may play a role in the pathophysiology of these diseases  .

in these patients controlling the underlying infection alone may not be suf- ficient but modulation of the immune response may also be necessary.

 section of neuroinfectious diseases national institutes of neurological disorders and stroke national institutes of health bethesda md united statesedited and reviewed byjose biller loyola university chicagounited statescorrespondenceavindra nath specialty section this article was submitted to neuroinfectious diseasesa section of the journal frontiers in neurologyreceived 25 july 2017accepted 29 august 2017published 14 september 2017citation nath a 2017 grand challenges in neuroinfectious diseases.front.

8480. doi keywords neuroinfectious diseases specialty grand challenge emerging infections lack of clinical trials antiviral drugs microbiome endogenous neuroimmune disorderswhen neurology evolved as a separate sub-specialty of medicine it was in large measure due to infections that affected the nervous system.

however the field of neuroinfectious diseases continues to face many major challenges.

below i highlight some of the critical areas for which major developments are needed and urge clinicians and researchers to help fill these gaps.emerging infectionsunlike other subspecialties in neurology in the field of neuroinfectious diseases new clinical syn- dromes and disorders are emerging on a regular basis.

they may occur as outbreaks in small local- ized regions or spread rapidly over large geographical areas.

they may also have far reaching socioeconomic consequences.

hence broad spectrum antiviral is necessary that may be effective against a whole class of viral pathogens .undiagnosed infectionsnearly 20-30 of patients with suspected cns infections in any tertiary care facility never get an etiological diagnosis .

timely collection and proper handling of samples may in part be the issue.

lack of easy access to broad panels or deep sequencing to look for known and rare microbial pathogens and lack of expertise to study these infec- tions may be to blame.

this may require collaborations with diagnostic laboratories and input from the federal drug administration in the united states and similar regulatory agencies elsewhere.microbiome and endogenous virusesmuch attention in recent years has been given to the microbi- ome in the gut and other mucosal surfaces.

clinical trials are needed to guide the management of such patients.in summary infections of the nervous system have caused devastating human diseases affecting large populations but pose some of the most unique challenges in medicine.

west nile virus and other nationally notifiable arboviral diseases - united states 2015. mmwr morb mortal wkly rep 2017 6651-5. dosantibanez s hubschen jm ben mamou mc muscat m brown ke myers r et al.

