1-6 in colour.leading to insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome 3. re- markable accumulation of macrophages in visceral adipose tissue of obese subjects elicits the secretion of diverse pro- inflammatory cytokines such as tnf-a and il-6 that are fur- ther linked to abnormal metabolism 4 5. the inflammatory signal is enhanced by the crosstalk between adipocytes and macrophages which together contribute to a state of local or systemic inflammation 6.recently gut microbiota has been considered to be an im- portant factor for the development of obesity 7-9. backhed et al reported that in contrast to specific-pathogen free mice germ-free mice were protected against obesity when consum- ing a high-fat diet 10. another study suggested that distur- bances in gut microbiota by treating mice with antibiotics may link to obesity-related disorders 11. gut bacteria could produce certain metabolites and several potential mediators such as lipopolysaccharide 12 bile acids 13 and short-chain fatty acids 14 which have been demonstrated to be involved in effects of gut microbiota on metabolism 15. the impact of gut microbiota is not limited to the local immune func- tion in gut 16 but also affects inflammation in peripheral tissues.

more importantly depleting gut microbiota by antibiotics treatment abolished the beneficial effects of gspe on inflammation and adiposity.conclusion our study identifies the novel links between gut microbiota alterations and metabolic benefits by gspe supplementation providing possibilities for the prevention and treatment of metabolic disorders by targeting gut microbiota through a potential prebiotic agent gspe.keywordsadiposity  gspe  gut microbiota  high-fat diet  inflammationadditional supporting information may be found in the online version of this article at the publisher's web-sitereceived december 15 2016revised april 16 2017accepted april 18 20171introductioncorrespondence jie hong and ruixin liue-mails hongjiemedmail.com.cn abbreviations abx antibiotics mix ewat epidydimal white adi- pose tissue gspe grape seed proanthocyanidin extract hfd high-fat diet il-6 interleukin 6 ipgtt intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test itt insulin tolerance test iwat inguinal white adipose tissue mcp-1 monocyte chemotactic protein 1 ncdobesity and overweight have become one of the most important public health problems worldwide 1 2. exces- sive visceral fat accumulation is a hallmark of obesity and is associated with systemically increased pro-inflammatory mediators thereby resulting in chronic low-grade inflamma- tion.

thus prebiotics have emerged as prominent agents relevant to improve or prevent obesity-related metabolic disorders.polyphenols found in many fruits and vegetables may protect against obesity-related metabolic syndrome 24. re- cent studies indicate that polyphenols extracted from differ- ent plants exert health effects and modify the gut microbiota composition with the increased abundance of bifidobactrium spp clostridiales faecalibacterium spp lactobacillus spp es- pecially the growth of akkermansia muciniphila 25. grape is a major source of polyphenols which are typically a mix- ture of anthocyanins b-type proanthocyanidins pa hydrox- ycinnamic acids monomeric flavan-3-ols and flavonols 26. roopchand et al reported that this grape extract mixture sup- plementation could improve metabolic profiles companied with the increased a. muciniphila 20. these studies demon- strate the modulating role of polyphenols in gut microbiota and metabolic health.

in anhe et al report mice were fed high fathigh sucrose hfhs for 8 weeks and in roopchand et al report the grape polyphenols were sorbed to soy pro- tein isolate and the experiment lasted for 13 weeks.

besides recent research reported that 90-95 of dietary procyani- dins are not absorbed in the small intestine but reach the colon 61 where they can be degraded by gut microbiota into simple phenolic compounds or other metabolites 62. these metabolites are recognized to be bioavailable and contribute to the healthy properties of procyanidins in vivo 6364. taken together these results revealed microbial changes upon gspe supplementation that may associate with its metabolic benefit.of note a recent study by masumoto et al has reported that the polymeric procyanidins derived from apple extract pre- vented high-fathigh-sucrose hfhs-induced obesity asso- ciated with the decreased firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio and the increased proportion of akkermansia muciniphila in ce- cum which was not detected in the oligomeric procyanidins- treated mice 65. both this study and ours observed the changes in the firmicutes phylum upon procyanidins ad- ministration.

colonization of germ-free mice with escherichia coli is able to augment macrophage infiltration of adipose tissue and increase the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines 17. mice fed with lipopolysaccharide enhance adipose tissue inflammation and reduce insulin sensitivity 12. these find- ings reveal that gut microbiota may contribute to metabolic tissue inflammation thereby affecting host metabolism.prebiotics which function as a regulator of gut microbiotathat can maintain gut microbiota homeostasis have been concentrated by researchers.

taken to- gether these results demonstrate that gspe supplemen-tation modulated the gut microbiota composition in hfd fed mice.effect of gspe on metabolic improvement partially depends on gut microbiotato further investigate whether the changes in the gut mi- crobiota induced by gspe supplementation contribute to the metabolic improvement in gspe-treated mice we next de- pleted the gut microbiota using broad-spectrum antibiotics ampicillin and neomycin 3 days before and during the whole experiment in the other two groups hfdpbsabx and hfdgspeabx.

a principal component analysis of gut microbiota composition.b principal coordinate analysis of gut microbiota based on unweighted unifrac.

4. these results together demonstrated the anti-inflammation effects and metabolic benefits of gspe supplementation.obesity and metabolic disorders are complicated pro- cesses that may involve the crosstalk between gut micro- biota and host metabolism 43. more and more research has focused on understanding the connection between the gut microbes and low-grade inflammation that can participate in the elevated adiposity and metabolic diseases 40. the gut microbiota is able to promote inflammation reaction in watvia tlr4 signaling pathways and downstream inflammation cascade 44. furthermore chronic infusion with lipopolysac- charide augments macrophage infiltration in wat 17. the infiltrated macrophages lead to the release of a variety of pro-inflammatory mediators which in turn recruit additional macrophages to further propagate the chronic inflammatory status 45. and some previous studies also showed that the development of adiposity were blunted or augmented once the critical signals had specific ablation in macrophage cells 46 47. therefore there were specific interactions between the modified microbiota and host inflammation which were devoted to adiposity-related metabolic diseases 48. concomi- tant with the metabolic improvement in gspe-treated hfd mice supplementation with gspe for 7 weeks induced an al- tered intestinal bacteria composition which was distinct from hfd control mice including a trend toward reduced firmi- cutes.

antibiotics are frequently applied to assess the roles of microbiota on host 44 54 72. by treating the hfd fed mice with a combination of antibiotics to sup- press the gut bacteria we for the first time illustrated the direct contribution of gut microbiota to the metabolic im- provement of gspe.

consistently previous studies also re- ported that the bloom of proteobacteria was associated with leanness and metabolic health 54 55. in caesar et al re- port mice fed with fish oil ameliorated the white adipose tissue inflammation which was concomitant with the in- creased abundance of proteobacteria 44. however alter- ations of proteobacteria abundance in gut varied in different studies.

additionally we detected an increased abundance of clostridium lach- nospiraceae in gspe supplemented hfd mice which how- ever was reduced in the masumoto et al's report.

we used 60 fat-content hfd and 300mgkg body weight doses of gspe treatment for 7 weeks while high- fathigh-sucrose diet and 0.5 polymeric procyanidins ad- ministration were used for 20 weeks in masumoto et al study.

14411961200.the authors have declared no conflict of interest.referencesgu d. reynolds k. wu x. chen j. et al.

2015 12 15-28.kanda h. tateya s. tamori y. kotani k. et al.

