recently cormorants have increased in number of individuals thereby causing trouble for commercial and sports fisheries in lakes and rivers all over eurasia and north america phalacrocorax auratus.a rise in the numbers of great cormorants arriving from europe to over-winter in israel from october to march has been demonstrated.

to demonstrate that fish infected with v. cholerae transfer the bac- teria to cormorants we used cormorants n  8 hand-reared in captivity.

in all cases the feces of the cormorants fed on goldfish and koi were v. cholerae-negative while most of the feces of the cormorants fed on tilapia were v. cholerae-positive.

the results demonstrate that v. cholerae can survive in the cormorants' digestive tract up to 72 h after ingestion of tilapia fish colonized by v. cholerae.table 3. virulence traits of v. cholerae isolates from the cormorants' droppings n 141 and fish intestinesn 48. all the examined isolates were positive for toxr gene and negative for ctxa tcpa and tcpi genes.

a very interesting result was the direct detection of ctxa in three wild cormorants demonstrating that the birds harbored pathogenic strains of v. cholerae.on migrating great cormorants can cover distances of 500 to 1000 kmday and thus potentially transfer v. cholerae across and between continents.

the presence of culturable v. cholerae was examined in the intestine content samples from the seven wild cormorants described above the cormorants' feces samples feed- ing experiments and from fish intestine samples fish from the feeding experiments.

openreceived 30 march 2017accepted 12 july 2017 published xx xx xxxxgreat cormorants phalacrocorax carbo as potential vectors for the dispersal of vibrio choleraesivan laviad -shitrit 1 tidhar lev-ari 1 gadi katzir1yehonatan sharaby 1 ido izhaki1  malka halpern 12vibrio cholerae is the cause of cholera a devastating epidemic and pandemic disease.

we determined the existence of v. cholerae in the microbiome of 57 wild cormorants' intestine.

in three of these v. cholerae-positive wild cormorants the presence of a gene for cholera toxin ctxa was detected.

wesubsequently tested eight captive hand-reared cormorants divided into two equal groups.

prior to the experiment the feces of the cormorants were v. cholerae-negative.

we detected v. cholerae in the feces of the tilapia-fed but not in the goldfishkoi-fed cormorants.

campylobacter escherichia coli and salmonella were cultured from cloacal and pharyngeal swabs ofdouble-crested cormorant chicks in canada.great cormorants are known as generalist foragersor specialist piscivores with a variety of regionaland seasonaldiets.

as a result the israeli authorities allow each fish farm to shoot down up to six cormorants per fish farm per day.1department of evolutionary and environmental biology faculty of natural sciences university of haifa mount carmel haifa israel.

additionally we have demonstrated that by consuming fish naturally infected with v. cholerae great cormorants get infected with this bacterial species.

