this still needs to be demonstrated but it would explain the differences of gloeothece with other unicellular n2-fixing cyanobacteria such as cyanothece and crocosphaera which do not form such aggregates and fix n2 during the dark compaore and stal 2009.merismopedia is a genus of unicellular cyanobacteria that is characterized by rectangular colonies embedded in a mucilaginous matrix fig.

while the evolution of cyanobacteria from 'simple' single cells to more complex filamentous organisms can be considered as the typical direction evolution takes it has also become clear that the taxa of unicellular cyanobacteria are not monophyletic and that evolution has taken the opposite direction from fila- mentous forms back to unicellular organisms schirrmeis- ter et al.

aggregation is common among cyanobacteria and it offers many advantages as compared with a free-living lifestyle.

picocyanobacteria by definition unicellular cyanobacteria smaller than 2 lm have often been consid- ered to occur and grow as free-living single cells pcy.

e an intertidal microbial mat another form of aggregation of cyanobacteria.

color figure can be viewed at 'eucapsis' colonies cubic with cells arranged in groups of 4. many taxa of unicellular cyanobacteria grow as multicellular organisms in well-organized and structured colonies that have been given taxonomic value.

about the role that infochemicals may have for inducing aggregation in cyanobacteria even less is known.for instance the unicellular cyanobacterium microcystis aeruginosa produces aggregates when treated with spent medium of daphnia or by disrupted microcystis cells becker et al.

many planktonic cyanobacteria filamentous and unicellular produce gas vesicles that provide these organisms with buoyancy.

1c and the non-heterocystous trichodesmium and many others which all form aggregates.aggregates of cyanobacteria that do not contain gas vesicles such as the picocyanobacteria discussed in huber et al.

finally on a larger scale carbon export the carbon pump is essential for balancing the global carbon budget.there are other bigger unicellular cyanobacteria that form more or less structured aggregates.

the sheath might even prevent grazing.microbial mats that are formed by cyanobacteria are multicellular aggregates that behave as macroscopic liv- ing entities fig.

they may differ from their pelagic counterparts and be typical benthic organisms but it is also possible that they originate from the water column and deposited in these benthic ecosystems.it is likely that cyanobacteria evolved from a unicellular type that gave rise to filamentous forms schirrmeister et al.

2011. filamentous cyanobacteria have the advan- tage to exchange metabolites and information directly between the cells in a trichome which led to the develop- ment of gliding motility and the orientation of the trichome in physical and chemical gradients.

to add to this the multicellular filamentous cyanobacteria also developed a distribution of tasks by cell differentiation which is common amongeukarya but unique among bacteria and archaea.

some cyanobacteria develop 'heterocysts' cells that have lost photosystem-i do not fix co2 and produce a thick glycolipid cell wall and that serve as the n2-fixing facto- ries of the organism.

