This included the following delivery location method gestational age antibiotic administration during delivery and compli- cations such as maternal fever or signs of infection neonatal peripartum information such as need for antibiotics duration of hospitalization disposition complications such as intuba- tion and significant anomalies and neonatal information up to 3 months of age such as need and reason for antibiotics hospi- talization or death.RESULTSFrom 1100 women enrolled 990 90 women had both cul- ture methods completed .

In a large population study in Denmark women who had bacte- rial vaginosis were half as likely to be colonized by GBS than women without bacterial vaginosis .

In contrast we found a higher relative abundance of lactobacilli among the GBS-colonized women compared with GBS-noncolonized women 89.9 vs 51.0 median abundance.

However our subgroup analysis suggests that the association with older age may be dependent on parity where age is a significant risk factor for women who are nulliparous but not for women who are parous.

This reiterates the importance and need for LMICs to identify GBS burden and implement screening and prevention strategies while awaiting results of the best vaccine strategy for GBS prevention.Some limitations of our study include the following 1 its external validity because we limited our findings to a tertiary care center in the capital 2 enrollment of women from the emergency room without controlling for use reason beyond exclusion criteria 3 limitations of LA as a confirmatory test due to possible weak agglutination 4 lack of a control com- parison group for our exploration of retrospective maternal and neonatal outcomes and its possible recall bias and 5 the small sample size for the vaginal microbiome analysis.CONCLUSIONPregnant women in Guatemala City have high rate of GBS colo- nization and with possible high incidence of sepsis in their neo- nates.

A cross-sectional study in 2015 at a public hospital in Guatemala City enrolled women 35 weeks' gestation.

Of 896 pregnant women 155 17.3 95 confidence interval CI 14.9-19.9 were GBS colonized.

Group B Streptococcus is prevalent in pregnant women from Guatemala with different risk factors than previously described.

Although the vaginal microbiome was not altered significantly in GBS-colonized women use of antibiotics had an effect on its composition.Keywords.

For commercial re-use please contact DOI 10.1093ofidofx020antibiotic prophylaxis IAP in most high-income countries  these screening and treatment programs are not routinely offered in low- and middle-income countries LMIC includ- ing Guatemala.Group B Streptococcus colonization of the genitourinary tract during pregnancy is common among women from high-in- come countries with prevalence rates from 10 to 30 how- ever less is known about its epidemiology in LMIC .

