in this review we focus on the function and activity of paneth cell defensins and highlight their role in disease.keywords enteric alpha defensins mucosal immunity paneth cells ibd microbiota research antimicrobial peptideintroductionedited by juarez antonio simoes quaresma federal university of para brazilreviewed bystephen j. pandol cedars-sinai medical center usazakee l. sabree ohio state university at columbususajon y. takemoto utah state university usacorrespondence sumathi sankaran-waltersspecialty section this article was submitted to microbial immunologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 07 december 2016accepted 29 march 2017published 19 april 2017citation sankaran-walters s hart r and dills c 2017 guardians of the gutenteric defensins.

2015. this suggests that defensins have certain conditions in which they function optimally as such environmental factors may play a role in the regulation of the activity of enteric defensins.because most defensins exert their effect on the membranes of cells scientists are interested in why defensins are essentially harmless to host cells at concentrations that kill microbial cells wu et al.

2013. defensins specifically enteric defensins noted as hd5 and hd6 or alpha defensin 5 and 6 are one type of these antimicrobial peptides.

within this review we will explore current understanding and hypotheses regarding the structure regulation and physiological function of enteric defensins and close with a discussion of potential clinical interventions using defensins.overview a- and b-defensins and their localizationin humans there are 17 described defensins found at various sites of the body jarczak et al.

for our purposes it is important to note all known enteric defensins in humans are alpha defensins specifically human defensin 5 hd5 and human defensin 6 hd6.there are six a-defensins described in humans designated as defa 1-6. defa 1-4 are also called human neutrophil peptides 1-4 as they are most often expressed by neutrophils commonly making up as much as 50 of the total protein content in these cells date et al.

2010 vega and caparon 2012.while much effort is devoted to understanding the function of defensins in relation to bacteria and other living organisms defensins have also been shown to exhibit direct antiviral activity and may play a key role in protecting hosts from enteric viral infections wilson et al.

while paneth cells have a number of functions one of their primary functions is the storage and release of these defensins bevins and salzman 2011. our current understanding suggests that defensins are probably not produced for immediate release by paneth cells but are instead constitutively produced in an inactive form and stored in this form in secretory granules for release at a later time cunliffe et al.

therefore it isimportant to examine the large-scale effects of defensins on the host's microbiome and overall gut physiology.new evidence is beginning to uncover the effects of defensins on host microbiomes.

further evidence for the protective effects of defensins can be seen in mice transgenic for defa 5. mice with the human defensin gene were shown to be resistant to oral challenge with pathogenic salmonella typhimurium suggesting a direct role for paneth cell defensins in host protection against pathogenic insult salzman et al.

2016. unanswered questions include the role of paneth cell defensins in such systemic conditions.clinical applicationsdue to their key role in the innate immune system defensins show promise in many clinical applications.tumor necrosis factor is a pro-inflammatory cytokine found in increased concentrations in the gut mucosa of patients with active colitis olsen et al.

it remains to be seen if enteric defensins have a non-specific and generalized response to viral pathogens in the gut.is there a recognition pattern like prr's that can directly activate defensinsa wide variety of tlr agonists and mamps have been shown to be associated with the release of enteric defensins.

however the study of defensins is open with many important questions the answers to which could have valuable clinical applications table 1.concluding remarksrecently developed advances in the field of antimicrobial peptides have fueled new interest into properties of the human enteric defensins hd5 and hd6 stange 2017. novel discoveries have been made with regard to the structure functional diversity and effect on host microbiota of these peptides sugi et al.

doi ganz t. 2003. defensins antimicrobial peptides of innate immunity.

287 27014-27019. doi lichtenstein a. k. ganz t. nguyen t. m. selsted m. e. and lehrer r.i. 1988. mechanism of target cytolysis by peptide defensins.

66 1-7. doi nakamura k. sakuragi n. takakuwa a. and ayabe t. 2016. paneth cell alpha- defensins and enteric microbiota in health and disease.

