the lack of functional mammalian histidine decarbox-ylase hdc the enzyme converting l-histidine to histamine yielded increased susceptibility to inflammation- associated crc in adult mice.here we set out to address the ability of hdcth l. reuteri to reduce the frequency and severity of inflammation-associated colon cancer in hdc-- mice and to investigate whether microbe-generated metabolites may suppress inflammation-associated cancer phenotypes exacerbated by mammalian enzyme deficiencies.materials and methodsassociation between hdc and h2r gene expression and overall survival rates in colon cancer patientsto investigate whether hdc and histamine h2 receptor h2r symbol hrh2 expression is associated with changes in survival rates of colon cancer patients the proggenev2 database was queried by selecting gene name hdc or hrh2 cancer type colorectal and survival measure death.

n z 5 for each group aed n z 15 to 20 for each group e. p  0.05 p  0.001. mrs deman rogosa sharpe.moreover l. reuteri 6475 administration significantly increased histamine quantities in mouse feces in contrast to the lack of increased amounts of histamine after adminis- tration of l. reuteri defective in hdc function hdca mutant e. these studies indicate that i l. reuteri administration increased its relative abundance in the guts of hdc-- mice and the presence of l. reuteri in the intestine was not affected by the presence or absence of an intact hcd gene in l. reuteri ii l. reuteri can express the hcd and histidinehistamine antiporter genes in the mammalian intestines of hdc-- mice iii hdc-positive l. reuteri is able to generate histamine in the gut providing a mechanistic underpinning for histamine-mediated immunomodulation by the mammalian gut microbes.hdc gene is necessary for l. reuteri 6475 to attenuate colonic carcinogenesis in vivoto probe the ability of histamine-generating l. reuteri 6475 to suppress crc associated with chronic intestinal inflam- mation the combination of aom and dss was used to induce colitis-associated colon cancer in 12-week-old male hdc-- balbc mice a. we found that negativecontrol mice that received pbs and drinking water instead of aom and 2 dss did not develop tumors  bee.

elevated patterns of h2r gene hrh2 expression was correlated with enhanced survival among patients with crc gse17537 p z 0.02 b indicating a potential antitumorigenic effect by h2r up-regulation.these findings based on human cancer gene expression profiling set the stage to explore whether microbial hdc expression and histamine generation could complement histamine deficiency in hdc-- mice and provide mecha- nistic insights in murine models of crc.l.

reuteri has been reported to suppress production of proin- flammatory cytokines by intestinal epithelial cells and monocytesin addition to reducing intestinal inflammation in different rodent models.e a pangenomic study showed that human-derived clade ii l. reuteri strains con- tained a complete chromosomal hdc gene cluster genes hdca hdcb hdcp and the genetic capacity to convert his- tidine to histamine.the ability to generate histamine by strains of this clade was correlated with suppression of human tumor necrosis factor tnf production.studies also showed that histamine is considered to be a primary candidate immunomodulin produced by l. reuteri.inac- tivation of histidine-to-histamine converting capacity by mutagenesis of the histidine decarboxylase gene hdca or the histidine-histamine antiporter gene hdcp diminished the ability of hdc-positive l. reuteri strain atcc mana- ssas va pta 6475 to suppress human tnf production.

subsequentlytcga-coadsurvival measure - overall survivalhdc gene expressioncohort divided at median of gene expressiongse17537survival measure - overall survivalhrh2 gene expressioncohort divided at median of gene expressionhr 0.60.36-1pval 0.0501286 high expressionlow expression3 yearshr 0.020-0.56pval 0.0211746 high expressionlow expression3 years5 years050010001500050010001500200025003000daysdaysfigure 1 overall survival rates increase in colon cancer patients with elevated human hdc and hrh2 gene expression.

reuteri 6475 administration increases hdc gene expression and histamine production in the intestines of hdc-- miceto explore whether oral administration of l. reuteri increased the relative abundance of this bacterial species in the intestines of hdc-deficient mice fluorescence in situ hybridization was performed in the colons of hdc-- mice 2 days after l. reuteri administration.

when hdc-- mice receive hdcth lactobacillus reuteri histamine is produced in the intestinal lumen via histidine decarboxylase hdc protein machinery in l. reuteri l-histidine is converted to histamine by hdca and histamine is exported to the gut lumen by histidine-histamine antiporter hdcp.l.

cd11bthgr-1th imcs are known to produce il-6 and other proinflammatory cytokines and may help explain how myeloid cell lineages may contribute to changes in cytokine quantities and inflammation-associated carcinogenesis.possible effects of histamine on cancer progression remain controversial.significantly increased hdc activity was found in tumor specimens in a series of 10 surgical patients with colorectal carcinoma suggesting possible dysregulation due to genetic abnormalities epiphenomenon or a role for hdc enzymatic activity in oncogenesis.however a defi- ciency of endogenous histamine was shown to promote inflammation-associated colonic cancer by promoting the accumulation of il-6 and cd11bthgr-1th imcs.

here we demonstrate that administration of hdcth lactobacillus reuteri in the gut resulted in luminal hdc gene expression and histamine production in the intestines of hdc-- mice.

patients with elevated patternsof hdc gene expression demonstrated improved survival in crc tcgacoad p z 0.05 a.we further investigated the association between h2r gene expression and survival rates in crc patients because our previous studyindicated an h2r-mediated suppres- sion of colitis by histamine.

together these results showed that histamine-generating lactobacilli could suppress carci- nogenesis by interkingdom complementation whereas isogenic strains incapable of generating histamine did not suppress colonic carcinogenesis.histamine-generating l. reuteri suppresses proinflammatory cytokine gene expression in the colonic mucosaspecific proinflammatory cytokines have been reported to contribute to the development of colon tumorigenesis by promoting the formation of a tumor-supportive microenvi- ronment.by analyzing cytokine gene expression of selected cytokines in the colonic mucosa  we showed that aomdss challenge induced expression of proinflammatory cytokine genes encoding kc il-22 il-6 tnf and il-1a compared with healthy hdc-- mice .

from the studies by yang et althat showed an increased susceptibility of hdc-- mice to inflammation-associated colonic cancer induced by aomdss challenge we addressed the ability of histamine-producing gut microbes such as l. reuteri to complement the histamine deficiency in hdc-- mice by interkingdom complementation.

different groups were compared by a nonparametric u-test two groups or kruskal-wallis test.resultselevated human hdc and h2r gene expression are associated with improved survival outcomes in colon cancer patientshdc is the key enzyme involved in histidine-to-histamine conversion and histamine generation in mammalian and bacterial cells.

orogastric gavage with wild-type l. reuteri 6475 and hdca-deficient l. reuteri increased the relative abundances of l. reuteri in the colonic lumen visualized by fluorescence microscopy compared with control mice that did not receive exogenous bacteria a. in addition the relative abundances of hdca dna and hdca and hdcp mrna were significantly increased demonstrating active gene expression in the in- testinal lumen by viable bacteria  bed.figure 2 increased abundance of bacterial histidine decarboxylase hdc mrna and histamine in the mouse intestine after lactobacillus reuteri supplementation.

gut microbes may represent an important source of histamine in mammals with implications for intestinal inflammation and colorectal neoplasia.histamine-producing l. reuteri suppressed gene expression and production of several cytokines in contrast to the mutant strain lacking intact bacterial hdc.

