gut microbiota trajectory in patients with severe burn a time series studyxinying wang md  jianbo yang md  feng tian md  li zhang md  qiucheng lei md  tingting jiang md  jihong zhou md  siming yuan md  jun wang md  zhijian feng md  jieshou li ph.d a department of general surgery jinling hospital medical school of nanjing university nanjing 210002 chinab department of general surgery the first people's hospital of foshan sun yat-sen university foshan 528000 chinac department of gynecology obstetrics and gynecology hospital fudan university shanghai 200011 chinad department of burn jinling hospital medical school of nanjing university nanjing 210002 chinaa r t i c l ei n f oa b s t r a c t keywordsgut microbiota severe burnmicrobiome biomarkers enteral nutritionpurpose this time series experiments aimed to investigate the dynamic change of gut microbiomes after severe burn and its association with enteral nutrition en.materials and methods seven severely burned patients who suffered from a severe metal dust explosion injury were recruited in this study.

also for both mouse and human gut microbiota dysbiosis can be triggered by burn injury allowing the overgrowth of gram-negative aerobic bacteria which play a pivotal role in potentiating sepsis.although previous studies have demonstrated the association be- tween severe burns with gut microbiota dysbiosis few is focusing on the dynamic change of gut microbiomes and its association with enteral nutrition en in severe burn patients .

weighted unifrac cluster analysis of gut microbiota profiles also indicated separation of the early two three and four weeks and late five and six weeks stage after severe burn .a trend of enriched beneficial bacteria and diminished pathogen bacteriaat the phylum level the proportion of bacteroidetes was significant- ly decreased and firmicutes increased at early stage after severe burn especially in en poorly-tolerated patients but it gradually recovered at late stage a. at the family level we observed an obviously de- creased bacteroidaceae a family of bacteroidales order bacteroidia class bacteroidetes phylum and increased enterococcaceae a family of lactobacillales order bacilli class firmicutes phylum b. similarly we observed a dramatically decreased bacteroides a genus of bacteroidaceae family bacteroidales order bacteroidia class bacteroidetes phylum and increased level of enterococcus a genus of enterococcaceae family lactobacillales order bacilli class firmicutes phylum and escherichia a genus of enterobacteriaceae family enterobacteriales order gammaproteobacteria class proteobacteria phylum at the genus level in early stage and gradually recovered to normalc.

s1.identification of the diagnosis and prognosis microbiome biomarkers of severe burn patientthe genus of enterococcus and escherichia was enriched at the sam- ples collected on the early stage which represented the sign of the dysbiosis of the gut microbiome of severe burn patients.

weighted unifrac cluster analysis was used to evaluate differences of samples in species complexity at six time points 1-3 days 2 3 4 5 and 6 weeks after severe burn n  7.bio-diversity analysis of gut microbiomesfor the species bio-diversity analysis the alpha diversity of patient' gut microbiome was greatly decreased at the early stage after severe burn compared with the initial stage shannon's diversity index 3.02 - 0.441.60 - 1.02 1.52 - 0.74 and 2.03 - 1.83 for 1-3 days 2 w 3 w andw respectively simpson' diversity index 0.11 - 0.03 0.43 - 0.330.41 - 0.18 and 0.28 - 0.24 for 1-3 days 2 w 3 w and 4 w respectively .

for severe burn patients understanding the exact gut flora dynamic along the prognosis of the patients is critical to understand the genesis development and progno- sis of burn.

many escherichia are commensal gut flora but particular strains of escherichia are pathogens that can cause severe gastrointestinal disease.early en has demonstrated to be effective in improving clinical out- comes in critically ill patients including severe burn or trauma which can contribute to supporting intestinal structural integrity stimulating epithelial cell proliferation and promoting the production of brush border enzymes .

six patients survived burn area81.7 - 5.9 apache ii score 14.5 - 1.7 sofa score 6.3 - 1.7 and one patient died burn area 95 apache ii score 25 sofa score 11. pneumonia enteritis bacteremia and sepsis occurred in three two four and two patients in the survivors respectively.

the dynamic changes of gut microbiome of fecal samples at six time points 1- 3 days 2 3 4 5 and 6 weeks after severe burn were detected using 16s ribosomal rna pyrosequencing technology.

results following the post-burn temporal order gut microbiota dysbiosis was detected in the gut microbiome after severe burn then it was gradually resolved.

en can promote the recovery of gut microbiota especially in en well-tolerated patients.conclusions severe burn injury can cause a dramatic dysbiosis of gut microbiota.

a trend of enriched beneficial bac- teria and diminished opportunistic pathogen bacteria may serve as prognosis microbiome biomarkers of severe burn patients.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionhuman gut microbiota plays crucial physiological roles such as producing important metabolites challenging and promoting the matu- rity of host immune system and protecting the host from pathogen in- fection .

to study the alteration of the abundance of gut bacte- ria of severe burn patients we divided six sample collection time pointsinto initial stage 1-3 days early stage from two weeks to four weeks and late stage from five weeks to six weeks.

2. principle component analysis of gut microbiome after severe burn.

pca was conducted with microbiota data at six time points 1-3 days 2 3 4 5 and 6 weeks from severe burn patients n  7. pc1 and pc2 are the x- and y-axis respectively.

