73 61-68.Huttenhower C. Gevers D. Knight R. Abubucker S. Badger J. H. Chinwalla A. T. Creasy H. H. Earl A. M. FitzGerald M. G. Fulton R. S. Giglio M. G. Hallsworth-Pepin K. Lobos E. A. Madupu R. Magrini V. Martin J. C. Mitreva M. Muzny D. M. Sodergren E. J. Versalovic J. Wollam A. M. Worley K. C. Wortman J. R. Young S. K. Zeng Q. Aagaard K. M. Abolude O. O. Allen-Vercoe E. Alm E. J. Alvarado L. Andersen G. L. Anderson S. Appelbaum E. Arachchi H. M. Armitage G. Arze C. A. Ayvaz T. Baker C. C. Begg L. Belachew T. Bhonagiri V. Bihan M. Blaser M. J. Bloom T. Bonazzi V. Brooks J. Buck G. A. BuhayC.

Some bacterial NOSs bNOSs produce NO via the same host's classical L-arginine pathway which has been shown both in vitro and in vivo and they are found in streptomycetes and bacilli that inhabit the human intestines.Microbial NO production was examined in vitro using L-arginine or nitrate as substrates.Interestingly L-arginine did not influence microbial NO production however significant gastrointestinal NO was produced by fecal micro-biota from nitrate by an 15N tracer experiment that reduced nitrate to ammonium by the dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium DNRA pathway.In addition to the endogenous synthesis of NO by NOS nitrate in the human intestinal system can also be sourced from diet rich in nitrate.The main dietary source of nitrate is vegetables which account for approximately 60 to 80 of the daily nitrate intake with a typical western diet.Nitrite is also found in meat as a food additive to prevent botulism and to enhance its appearance.

On a slight deviation it has been recently suggested that luminal nutrients and bacteria stimulate luminal epithelial biosensors called enteroendocrine cells which communicate in a paracrine fashion with ENS neurons innervating the small intestine and colon to reach the connected CNS neurons.A second hypothesis for disease spread via the GBA is based on the fact that NO can easily diffuse it is unconstrained by cell membranes and can act across a broad volume.It is suggestedthat spillover of NO from eNOS and iNOS from other compartments into the nervous system as a result of diffusion is a potential pathological source of NO with neurological implications.Moreover GI-produced NO can be scavenged by hemoglo- bin in red blood cells thereby entering the peripheral vasculature and crossing the blood-brain barrier BBB into the cerebral vasculature.

Furthermore Klebsiella strain of Proteobacteria phylum and Clostridiales strain of Firmicutes phylum found in the gut microbiota have been shown to be capable of nitrogen fixation in the human gut.Nitrogen fixation activity is determined by metagenomic sequencing of the nifH gene in fecal samples.The nitrate-nitrite-NO pathway fuels the production of NO and the gut is the primary site for the production of significant amounts of NO concentrations.

Similarly NO synthesis in the gut by gut microbiota can impact NO levels in the brain possibly leading to neurodegenerative disorders.One of the hypotheses for disease spread from the ENS to the CNS is about the nerves that interconnect the two systems especially the vagus nerve which imparts direct innervation.

Sequencing full length 16S rRNA genes by Third Generation Sequencers such as the PacBio Sequel allows species identification and the most recent development in metagenomics can facilitate the study of collective genomes from the environment and further expand our knowledge of the association between the gut microbiome and health and disease helping to identify the causative mechanisms.Experimental studies using germ-free gnotobiotic mice indicate that commensal gut microbiota is obligatory for normal physiological functioning of the GI tract including its role in maintaining action potentials of the enteric nervous system ENS which is part of the autonomic nervous system that is able to function independently of the central nervous system CNS.The ENS neural circuit is embedded within the gut wall and comprises sensory neurons motor neurons and interneurons.NITRIC OXIDE ITS ROLE AND SOURCENitric oxide NO acts as the principal neurotransmitter of the nonadrenergic noncholinergic NANC ENS in humans and animals.Its release is stimulated by the activation of NMDA receptors by glutamate .

Transfer of gut microbiota from male mice to female mice altered the recipient's microbiota resulting in elevated testosterone and metabolomic changes.Females have a higher incidence and severity of many major autoimmune diseases including the neurodegenerative disease multiple sclerosis and it has been shown that androgens are protective.- Whether sexual differences on gut microbiome have any effects on other neurodegenerative diseases such as AD and PD remains to be elucidated.PHARMACOLOGICAL INTERVENTIONS IN ABERRANT NITRIC OXIDE SIGNALINGAs there is excess gut and brain NO in AD NOS inhibitors can serve as pharmacological neuroprotective agent against neuro- nal toxicity elicited by APP.In cocultures of immunostimu- lated microglia and cerebellar granule neurons neurotoxicity was blocked by an inhibitor of NOS.All three isoforms of NOS are elevated in AD isoform-specific NOS inhibitors can be tailored to maintain physiological concentrations of eNOS and nNOS and to minimize pathological iNOS.

In aberrant conditions of excess NO during pathogenesis reactive nitrogen species RNS and reactive oxygen species ROS lead to modification of protein residues with subsequent DNA damage with observed axonal degeneration in neurodegenerative disorders B.physiological neuroprotective function whereas iNOS synthe- sizes micromolar concentrations of NO that are neurotoxic in response to proinflammatory stimuli.More specifically NO S-nitrosylation of the NMDA N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits thus inhibiting aberrant excitatory toxicity or the active sites of caspases inhibiting cellular apoptosis and enhancing survival dictates its neuroprotective function in regulating neuronal cell proliferation survival and differ- entiation Calabrese et al.

The overaugmentation of NO excitability via modulation of voltage-gated potassium channel activity namely Kv7 and Kv2 is one of the proposed mechanisms.Another potential mechanism of NO and AD is with regards to the ability of NO to increase the excitability of presynaptic neurons to promote neurotransmitter release.

Note that basal NO is impertinent in stabilizing microglia that are juxtaposed to neurons.Nitrite a metabolite of the free radical NO derived from L-arginine was detected in abundant levels in activated microglialneuronal cell cocultures and in purified microglial cultures but not in purified astrocyte or neuronal cell cultures suggesting that microglia were the principal source of NO.

