we are now witness- ing major changes in the epidemiology of chronic and auto- immune diseases that cannot be explain by the increase in the population and current research suggests that antibiotics may play a significant role.references........gut microbiome and antibiotics733...... ............ ........................734iizumi et al.

data modified from reference .on weight growth was reported in a mouse model with low dose of penicillin or oxytetracycline inducing weight gain but high doses of the same antibiotics decreasing weight .antibiotic use in germ free animal models did not promote animal growth  leading to the assumption that the ex- istence of the microbiome is essential for the gain or loss of weight under antibiotic treatments.

archives of medical research 48 2017 727e734.....................

a significant weight gain was observed in the vancomycin group but not in the amoxicillin group.from all these studies we can assume that depending of the doses there is a positive relationship between consump- tion of broad spectrum antibiotics and weight modification.animal models of obesity induced by antibiotic treatmentas mentioned earlier there are many reports that pointed out the correlation between antibiotic treatment especially subtherapeutic low dose treatment and weight gain in farm animals.

in contrast nobel et al indicated that administration of thera- peutically doses of antibiotics in mice early in life was associated with a significant increase in weight  .in summary there are many reports indicating a positive correlation between antibiotic treatment and weight gain in both human and animal studies.

the study indicated that children who were exposed to antibiotic agents until 6 months of life had a significantly higher risk of being overweight at seven years old.a study focused on low birth weight birth infants from taiwan  who were 14 d old and less than 1500 g. erythromycin was administered at 5 mgkg for 14 d. this study indicated that children receiving erythromycin had a significant difference of daily weight gain when compared with the placebo group.an open label study in the u.s. and canada that included children between 6e18 years old showed thattable 2. the alteration of microbiome due to antibiotic treatments in mouse modelsmicetreatmenttreatment periodresultsreference732iizumi et al.

it is incredible that children of unites states are exposed to such an enormous quantity of prescribed antibi- otics in their early life because this amount is about two times more than the antibiotics prescribed in children from northern european countries .antibiotics lead to microbiome alterationantibiotic use either orally or intravenously influences and reduces the gut microbiome .

reported that weight gain of children de- pends upon periods when they took antibiotics early in life .

mice transplanted with feces from mice with ldp and hfd gained more weight than mice transplanted with feces from mice without antibiotics and normal chow.

mice treated with ldp gained weight and subsequently exhibited a change in hepatic metabolism of cholesterol and lipids .there are also reports of some beneficial effects when antibiotics are used in low doses.

showed that a low dose of antibiotic treatment ampicillin and neomycin improved metabolic endotoxemia in mice fed with hfd or in obob mice .there is however conflicting results of the effect on weight when antibiotics are administered in therapeutically doses.

as we mentioned before antibiotics in many cases have been prescribed for weight loss in humans.

b it is getting more difficult to develop new antibiotics and there aren't any in- dications that new antibiotics will be available in the next 5e10 years.

administration of antibiotics within the first 6 months of life has a strong correlation with obesity but this corre- lation disappears if administration of antibiotics occurs af- ter the first 6 months of life.

however as result of their multiple benefits antibiotics have been wildly used and abused in the number of prescriptions particularly in pediatric population and in the success of antibiotics for growth promotion in the food industry.

