via host dendritic cells modulation - that promote both helminth and host survival 1. the host-helminth-microbiota interaction is thus a com- plex and dynamic relationship and all three compo- nents must be considered to better understand helminth pathogenesis.testing the helminth-gut microbiota-cns hypothesis available data suggests that helminths the gut micro- biota and the host should be viewed as a dynamic and integrated system in support of that view is current evidence pointing out that 1 helminth infection in in- fants is associated with significant cognitive impairment2 studies focusing on the gut-microbiota-brain axis demonstrate that the gut microbiota has a key role in early brain development and dysbiosis in the gut micro- biota adversely affects cognitive abilities and 3 sth in- fections result in gut microbiota dysbiosis.

factors supporting this hypothesis are 1 the role that gut microbiota has on cognitive development 2 the ability of helminth in- fections to change gut microbiota composition and di- versity and 3 the observed effect of helminth infection on cognitive development indicators.

as an example of diet impact prolonged and exclusive breastfeeding has been shown to improve children's cognitive development .interestingly the maturation of the gut microbiota occurs during the first 2 to 3 years of postnatal life coinciding with a critical window of early brain devel- opment initial colonization of the gi tract is dictated by the mother's microbes during the deliv- ery and the hospital environment and further influ- enced by a number of factors including antibiotic use diet mode of delivery environmental factors or the maternal microbiota - the gut microbiota plays a fundamental role in key systems regulating cns development especially synaptogenesis and mye- lination this entails that a sustained imbal- ance within the microbial ecosystem of the infant gut could impair the cognitive development in early life.

so it would be worth testing the potential impact of helminth infection on children growth via infection-induced microbiota dysbiosis through a similar loop analysis.summarywe put forward the hypothesis that changes in the gut microbiota induced by helminth infections play an im- portant role in cognitive morbidity of children the helminth-gut microbiome-cns axis.

but a con- siderable amount of morphological development cell differentiation and acquisition of function takes place during postnatal development with a striking increase in brain growth during the first 2 years of life in- ternal and external environmental signals such as nutri- tion infection the environment or stress maternal or environmental can affect brain development until adult- hood.

the hypothesis should be further tested using experimental and epi- demiological studies.conclusionswhile available evidence in favour of the helminth- microbiota-cns hypothesis is circumstantial the recent debate around helminth associated morbidity indicate the need for further research to elucidate the mecha- nisms through which gastrointestinal helminth infec- tions induce cognitive developmental morbidity.

bmc infectious diseases 2017 1758doi 10.1186s12879-016-2146-2gut microbiota disturbance during helminth infection can it affect cognition and behaviour of childrenvanina guernier1 bradley brennan23 laith yakob4 gabriel milinovich2 archie c. a. clements5 and ricardo j. soares magalhaes16backgroundsoil-transmitted helminth sth infections such as ascaris lumbricoides trichuris trichiura and hookworms affect more than a third of the world's population with the heaviest worm burdens occurring in non-industrialized countries .

a recent study on a population of wild mice naturally infected showed a modification in the diversity and composition of the gut microbiota with evidence that the abundance of gut mi- crobial taxa varies according to the helminth species col- onizing the host a potential mechanism by which helminth infection could alter the gut microbiota composition is its effect upon the host immune system which could disrupt thehomeostatic relationship established between the gut microbiota and the host.

in addition to their nutritional effects soil- correspondence 1school of veterinary science university of queensland gatton 4343 qld australia6children's health research centre university of queensland south brisbane4101 qld australiafull list of author information is available at the end of the articletransmitted helminth infections are also reported to impair cognitive function - limit educational advancement and as a result hinder economic development .

the effects of helminth infections particularly by hookworms on cognitive development of children were first reported by waite and neilson in 1919 .

20084 suppl 1118-236.ezeamama ae friedman jf acosta lp bellinger dc langdon gcmanalo dl olveda rm kurtis jd mcgarvey st. helminth infection and cognitive impairment among filipino children.

parasitic helminth infection and cognitive function in school children.

20157cd000371.dickson r awasthi s williamson p demellweek c garner p. effects of treatment for intestinal helminth infection on growth and cognitive performance in children systematic review of randomised trials.

199410114-8.mireku mo boivin mj davidson ll ouedraogo s koura gk alao mj massougbodji a cot m bodeau-livinec f. impact of helminth infection during pregnancy on cognitive and motor functions of one-year-old children.

the qualitative and quantitative alterations on the composition of the gut microbiota of the host upon helminth infection and the underlying mechanisms leading to these changes have mainly been studied in animal models specifically heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri infection in mice and trichuris suis in- fection in pigs reviewed in .

