upon co-injection of hex-a dsrna and vg-1 dsrna into the 5th instar nymph these four bands disappeared lane 5 indicating that the rnai effects persisted in hex-a and vg-1 dsrna- injected adult insects until nymphs hatched.in addition the phenotypes of ovaries from adult insects the colors of laid eggs and the body colors of hatchlings from dsrna- injected mothers were analyzed c. white-colored ovariesobtained from hex-a dsrna and both hex-a and vg-1 dsrna-co- injected adult insects upper columns 3 and 5 were compared to the emerald-colored ovaries of sym-insects upper column 1. the insects injected with hex-a dsrna and co-injected with hex-a and vg-1 dsrnas laid yellowish-brown colored eggs middle columns 3 and 5 compared to the green-black colored eggs of sym- and apo- insects middle columns 1 and 6. when the body colors of newly hatched nymphs from hex-a dsrna-injected or hex-a and vg-1 dsrna-co-injected adult insects were examined the abdominal colors of both nymphs were red lower columns 3 and 5 compared to the black-red bodies of the sym- and apo-insects lower columns1 and 6. taken together these data suggest that high early expression of hex-a and vg-1 in female adult sym-insects a and c is involved in the higher numbers of eggs produced larger ovary size and normal coloration of eggs and hatchlings.rnai of hex-b in sym-insects restores their growth patterns to those of apo-insectsnext to address the biological effects of the hex-b gene in rip- tortus development we injected hex-b dsrna into 2nd instar sym- insects.

the column numbers indicate sym- insect columns 1 and 6 hexamerin-b rnai alone columns 2 and 7 apo-insect columns 3 and 8 hexamerin-a rnai alone columns 4 and 9 and mock-rnai columns 5 and 10. error bars indicate the standard error of the mean n 14 30. the statistical significance of differences in mean values was assessed by tukey's hsd test following one-way anova.nymphal stage all fitness parameters of hatched adult males from hex-b dsrna-injected nymphs were substantially affected compared to those of the sym-insects and mock-injected sym-in- sects lane 2 in b. however all fitness parameters of hatched adult females from hex-b rnai nymphs were almost the same as those of the apo-insects lanes 7 and 8. these results clearly demonstrated that high expression of the hex-b gene in sym- insects enhanced the molting rate of nymphs resulting in a faster emergence rate of adult insects.discussionin this study we examined the transcriptional changes of two hexamerin and one vitellogenin protein in riptortus during nymphal and adult development in sym- apo- and symburk--in- sects by qrt-pcr and rnai methods.

adult emergence was monitored by inspecting late fifth instar nymphs and counting the number of newly molted adult insects every day.

for counting the numbers of laid eggs thirty newlyemerged female insects were mated with the same numbers of male insects that emerged from the same experimental group on the same day and then the numbers of eggs laid by female insects were recorded for 10 days after the first oviposition.statistical analysisthe data were analyzed using one-way anova with tukey's hsd test using prism graphpad software or spss statistics 23.resultsearlier adult emergence and increased numbers of eggs in the presence of burkholderia gut symbionts in r. pedestristo identify the molecules that are altered in the host insects' hemolymph by the presence absence or depletion of gut symbi- onts we first compared the adult emergence rates and eggnumbers of sym- apo- and symburk--insects.

additionally when we counted the egg numbers of the three insect groups sym- apo- and symburk--insects laid approximately 550 150 and 250 eggs from 30 adult females 10 days after adult emer- gence respectively b showing that three times and two times more eggs were laid by sym-insects compared to those of apo-insects and symburk--insects respectively.

adult emergence days were counted in the three groups of adult insects one of which was orally fed symbionts sym-insect one of which was reared without symbionts apo-insect and the other of which was treated with tetracycline antibiotics after establishment of the symbiosis symburk--insect.

however sym- male insects contained high amounts of hexamerin-2 compared to that of other insects and higher amounts of hexamerin-1 and -4 were observed in sym-female and -male insects lanes 5 and 6. although we do not know the exact biological significance of these observations it is plausible that sym-insects contain a higher amount of hexamerin isomers compared to those of the apo- and symburk--insects in their hemolymphs.to further elucidate the gene expression patterns of hex-a and-b and vg-1 at the transcriptional level we performed qrt-pcr using apo- sym- and symburk--adult insects which were ob- tained 3 days after adult emergence d. hex-a and vg-1 genes showed 2-fold higher expression in the sym-female insects compared to that of the apo- and symburk--insects d. in contrast the hex-b gene also showed 3-fold higher expression in the sym-male insects compared to that of the apo- and symburk-- insects d.these results suggested that the transcript levels of hexamerin and vitellogenin were also increased by the presence of the gut symbiont in the host.the unique expression patterns of hex-b in the nymphal stages and hex-a and vg-1 in female adults depend on the burkholderia symbiontbecause hexamerin and vitellogenin function as a major storage and yolk protein in insects the expression patterns of thesefig.

column abbreviations indicate adult males m and adult females f. b n-terminal sequence homologies between the 68 kda protein and the reported riptortus cyanoproteins and between the 50 kda protein and the reported riptortus vitellogenin precursor.

grey line nymph-insect black solid line adult female black dashed line adult male.fig.

although sym-insects require 17 days for full adult emergence i hex-b dsrna-injected insects take 26 days ii similar to the 28 days of apo-insects iii suggesting that highly expressed hex-b proteins in sym-insects promote nymphalhatching leading to decreased adult emergence time during rip- tortus development.

s1b we hypothesized that the delay in the adult emergence rate of hex-b dsrna-injected insects is attributable to the effects of the hex-b gene.furthermore we examined fitness parameters such as body weight body length thorax width and abdomen width after the emergence of adults from hex-b rnai nymphs b. because the hex-b gene was specifically expressed in male sym-adults as shown in b-ii we expected that the hex-b gene may have an effect on adult males.

the fitness effects of each group were analyzed by measuring the dry weight i body length ii maximum thorax width iii and maximum abdomen width iv using adult insects 5 days after adult emergence.

based on our current results we identified the burkholderia gut symbiont as an additional new factor that modulates the protein synthesis and gene expression of hexamerin and vitellogenin during development and egg production in this insect.although several research groups attempted to rear riptortus insects without feeding them the burkholderia gut symbiont in the laboratory during the 1990s they observed gradual decreases in egg numbers from adult females and decreases in adult emergence rates resulting in a failure to rear this insect in the laboratory chinzei personal communication.

however the hexamerin-a and vitellogenin-1 genes were only expressed in adult females and they were also detected 6e7 days earlier and were 2-fold higher in sym-adult females than those in the other insects.

depletion of hexamerin-b by rna interference in 2nd instar sym-nymphs delayed adult emergence whereas hexamerin-a and vitellogenin-1 rna interference in 5th instar nymphs caused loss of color of the eggs of sym-insects.

