given the fact that transferring the microbiota of hfd-consuming mice to gf mice caused glucose intolerance in 6 days  and significant changes in the luminal butyrate concentrations of recipient gf mice at day 7 post-fmt  it is interesting to note that the acquired changes in microbiota in response to cap protect against hfd-induced obesity because germfree mice that received microbiota from the hfdc group exhibited lower levels of gut permeability plasma lps and markers of clgi in 2 weeks .in conclusion these results demonstrate dietary cap-microbiome interactions as a novel mechanism underlying the anti-obesity effects of dietary cap.

more specifically the hfdc group may carry a lower abundance of lps-producing bacteria.to further clarify whether the gut microbiota plays a causal role we transplanted the fecal microbiota of mice fed hfd or hfdc for 12 weeks into recipient gf mice andthen fed both groups of recipient mice a high-fat diet for 2 weeks .

also the recipient mice were maintained in separate cages five mice per cage n  5group within an isolator dedicated to mice colonized with the same donor microbiota.

s5 for 12 weeks and then were treated with a broad-spectrum antibiotic cocktail abx consisting of ampicillin vancomycin neomycin sulfate and metronidazole for 6 weeks to introduce microbiota depletion a. blood and tissue samples were subjected to various analyses and data were analyzed before and after abx supplementation for markers of metabolic endotoxemia b systemic chronic low-grade inflammation clgi tnf-a il-13 il-6 and il-10 c and obesity d. e schema showing the germfree mice that received microbiota transplanted from mice treated with hfd-c for 12 weeks.

s6b metabolic endotoxemia  to  and systemic clgi  were significantly lower in gf mice that received microbiota from the cap-treated hfd group than in gf mice that received hfd donor microbiota.

considering the central role of metabolic endo- toxemia in the development of clgi we hypothesize that the anti-obesity effect of dietary cap is due to the prevention of microbial dysbiosis-induced gut barrier dys- function and subsequently improved metabolic endotoxemia through altering the gutfig 1 dietary cap reduces hfd-induced metabolic endotoxemia and systemic chronic low-grade inflammation clgi.

wt mice were fed hfdc for 12 weeks and then hfdc mice were divided into two treatment groups vehicle versus hu-210.

gf foster mice were used to breastfeed 1-day-old gf mice until weaning which occurred at 3 weeks of age they were then fed ad libitum with a sterilized normal chow diet for 5 weeks postweaning.

mice were housed in a biosafety level 2 bsl2 room in hard-top cages with two or three mice per cage.

to colonize the guts of gf mice fecal samples were collected from randomly chosen mice that had received hfd or hfdc for 12 weeks since the age of 8 weeks.

combined these results indicate that the beneficial effects of cap against metabolic endotoxemia and associated obesity may be largely due to increases in the populations of these butyrogenic bacterial species and gut barrier-enhancing effects of butyrate.variations in the intestinal endocannabinoid system in response to modulation of the gut microbiota have been observed in germfree mice and in mouse models of bacterial-host interactions in colonic tissue .

mice were fasted for 4 h before being sacrificed and blood was collected via cardiac puncture in all experiments unless otherwise specified.determination of the cap effects on metabolic endotoxemia chronic low-grade inflamma- tion and gut microbiota.

markers of metabolic endotoxemia clgi and obesity were recorded before at the end of the 12th week and after treatment of these mice with a broad-spectrum antibiotic abx cocktail sigma usa containing ampicillin 1 mgml metronidazole 1 mgml neomycin 1 mgml and vancomycin 0.5 mgml in their drinking water for 6 weeks.

mice were then subjected to gtt and analysis for markers of obesity bacterial translocation metabolic endotoxemia and systemic clgi.statistical analyses.

2008. changes in gut microbiota control metabolic endotoxemia- induced inflammation in high-fat diet-induced obesity and diabetes in mice.

