in addition phascolarctobacterium which was more abundant in the control group was the representative phylotype in the normal group .analysis of propionate and butyric acidbecause the genus phascolarctobacterium has been characterized by producing propionate and this genus was decreased in the meth cpp group we proposed that propionate was also attenuated by meth administration.

the propionate- producing genus phascolarctobacterium was attenuated in the meth cpp group and the family ruminococcaceae was elevated in the meth cpp group.

student's t-test was used to determine whether difference existed between the two groups p  0.05.resultsmeth-induced cppduring the preconditioning stage of the cpp paradigm there was no difference between the time spent in chamber a between the control group and the meth cpp group.

ruminococcaceae bacillus cetobacterium fusobacteria and aeromonas which were abundant in the meth cpp group were the key phylotypes that contributed to the difference in the intestinal microbiota composition between the meth cpp and control group.

ace and chao1 were estimated to be 376.25378.5 in the control group and 411.25412.625 in the meth cpp group respectively but there were no differences between these two groups.

the shannon and simpson indices were 3.4030.127 in the control group and 3.9040.069 in the meth cpp group p-value for the shannon and simpson indices between the two groups was 0.035 and 0.038 respectively as determined by a two-tailed t-test.

lda revealed distinct taxa in the microbiome of the control group versus the meth cpp group .

to test this hypothesis we analyzed the relative concentration of propionate in the fecal matter of the two groups by gc-ms. the data showed that the relative concentration of propionate in the control group was more than twice that in the meth cpp group.

the relative abundance of this genus in the control group was approximately twofold more than in the meth cpp group .

as we expected the concentration of propionate in the control group was more than twice that in the meth cpp group.

in our results the abundance of the genera ruminiclostridium9 and ruminococcaceaeucg010 both of which belong to the family ruminococcaceae was much higher in the meth cpp group than in the control group.

becausea higher shannon and lower simpson index indicate higher community diversity the results suggest that the fecal microbial diversity in the meth group was somewhat greater than that in the control group.

the fecal microbial diversity was slightly higher in the meth cpp group.

the sixteen rats were randomly assigned into two groups the control n 8 and meth cpp group n 8. the preconditioning phase determined the baseline preference.

acidaminococcaceae was more abundant in the control group and ruminococcaceae and bacillaceae were elevated in the meth cpp group.firmicutes are the largest phylum of bacteria comprising more than 200 genera most of which belong to the gram-positive bacteria in which lipoteichoic acid is a major constituent of the cell wall.

