for example the diet of popula- tions of pikas in the columbia river gorge of oregon usa is composed of roughly 60 moss varner  dearing 2014. feeding on moss pres- ents extreme nutritive challenges as it contains roughly double the fibre and significantly less nitrogen than typical food sources varner  dearing 2014. remarkably pikas in the columbia river gorge exhibit the highest moss intakes documented for any wild mammalian species varner  dearing 2014. thus populations of pikas in the columbia river gorge may harbour distinct microbial communities that help them to cope with these nutritive challenges.we inventoried the gut microbial communities of several popula- tions of american pikas.

specifically pikas from colorado harboured communities enriched in tenericutes pikas from utah hosted communities with high abundances of firmicutes and gut communities of pikas from oregon were enriched in melainabacteria.

the phylum actinobacteria composed 2.94 - 0.03 of the gut community of typical-feeding pikas but only 1.44 - 0.01 of the community of moss-feeding pikas fdr-corrected p  .001. additionally the phylum melainabacteria was significantly more abundant in the moss-feeding pika population figure 4b fdr-corrected p  .001. in fact moss-feeding pikas har- boured a community highly enriched in melainabacteria when com- pared to the communities of pikas from the other populations in our study and to other mammalian herbivores that have been previously studied figure 4b.

with these data we asked several questions.i how do microbial communities differ across pika populations also given that the biogeographic relationships across these populations have been well studied is there phylosymbiosis between host phy- logeny and similarities in gut microbial communities ii which mi- crobial members are present across pika populations and thus may represent a core microbiota iii which microbes are enriched in the moss-feeding pika population and thus may represent an adaptation to this difficult diet both core microbial members and those enriched in the moss-feeding pikas may give insight into these animals' abilities to feed on fibre-rich protein-deficient food sources.2  materials and methods  sample collectionlike all lagomorphs pikas are coprophagic and produce two types of scat or droppings.

faecal pellets are hard round and contain largely undigested plant material and are not reingested whereas caecal pel- lets are soft amorphous and contain the highly nutritious products of microbial fermentation in the caecum and thus are often reingested by the animal smith  weston 1990. pika caecal pellets contain ap- proximately six times more nitrogen and less than half the fibre com- pared to the plants that the pikas consume varner  dearing 2014. unlike most lagomorphs which void caecal pellets at night and con- sume them directly pikas produce caecal pellets throughout the day and may either consume them immediately or cache them in haypiles for later consumption smith  weston 1990.a total of 55 fresh caecal pellets were collected from individual pikas in five populations the wasatch mountains of northern utah n  6 samples the gallatin range of western montana n  3 samplesthe front range of colorado n  5 samples and two populations in northern oregon where we sampled at mt.

this genus adlercreutzia phylum actinobacteria was present at a relative abundance of 1.41 - 0.02 in typical high- elevation pikas compared to 0.73 - 0.01 in moss-feeding pikas fdr-corrected p  .02. there were no differences in any measure- ments of alpha diversity shannon index observed otus evenness or faith's phylogenetic diversity between typical-feeding and moss- feeding pika populations.4  discussion we have limited understanding of how gut microbial communities dif- fer across animal populations in natural environments as a result of evolution diet or other factors.

2016. given that the plant material consumed by pikas is generally high in fibre and plant defensive chemicals there may be strong selective pressure to maintain these fibre- and toxin- degrading microbes.we were also interested in the microbial communities that might facilitate the ingestion of large amounts of moss by pikas in the columbia river gorge.

2009 hafner  smith 2010.in terms of diet pikas are herbivorous and feed largely on a va- riety of grasses and forbs dearing 1997. pikas collect plants from alpine meadows and store them in haypiles within barren talus fields.

through these actions pikas alter the plant community structure of alpine meadows huntly 1987 and nutrient concentrations in talus fields aho huntly moen  oksanen 1998. in some locations pikas exhibit remarkable dietary flexibility.

hood n  21 samples where pikas feed on typical food resources and in the columbia river gorge n  20 samples where pikas consume high amounts of moss.

brelative abundance of melainabacteria from oregon pikas pikas from other populations and other mammalian herbivores di rienzi et al.

again moss contains roughly double the fibre and significantly less nitrogen than typical food sources and pikas in the columbia river gorge exhibit the highest moss in- takes documented for any wild herbivore varner  dearing 2014. the most striking difference in microbial community structure for moss-feeding pikas was an enriched abundance of the candidatephylum melainabacteria.

received 11 october 2016  accepted 21 march 2017doi 10.11111365-2656.12692animal host-micr obe intera ctions gut microbial communities of american pikas ochotona princeps evidence for phylosymbiosis and adaptations to novel dietskevin d. kohl12  johanna varner3  jennifer l. wilkening4  m. denise dearing21department of biological sciences vanderbilt university nashville tn usa2department of biology university of utah salt lake city ut usa3department of biology colorado mesa university grand junction co usa4department of ecology and evolutionary biology university of colorado boulder co usacorrespondencekevin d. kohlemail funding informationnational science foundation grantaward number deb 1342615 and dbi 1400456 oregon zoo future for wildlife fundhandling editor bethany hoyeabstract1.

first pikas are high-e levation specialists with significant population structure across various mountain ranges in the usa allowing us to investigate whether simi- larities in microbial communities match host genetic differences.

moreover pikas that feed on moss harboured microbial communities highly enriched in melainabacteria.

