hence the evolutionary significance of this type of association between gut bacteria and host is unclear 26 34 35.these reasons may explain the lack of consistency in tests that have investigated a general role for gut bacteria in mating as- sociations and mate choice in d. melanogaster 16 18 36-38. to try to resolve these differences and to investigate the potential mechanisms underlying the role of gut microbes in assortative mating we repeated the experiments of sharon et al.

the results revealed that although there were replicated differences in the gut microbiomes in flies maintained on the different diets there was no evidence for assortative mating associated with diet with gut bacteria or with l. plantarum in particular.results and discussioncomposition of the gut microbiomes of cmy and starch flies.

manipulation of the diet and hence the gut microbiome was reported to result in immediate assorta- tive mating by diet which could be eliminated by reducing gut microbes using antibiotics and recreated by adding back lactoba- cillus plantarum.

despite observing replicable differences in the gut microbiomes of flies maintained on different diets we found no evidence for diet-associated ri for any role of gut bacteria or for l. plantarum specifically.

the results suggest that there is no general role for gut bacteria in driving the evolution of ri in this species and resolve an evolutionary riddle.ecological adaptation  diet  holobiome  gut microflora  assortative matinghe experimental study of key elements of incipient re- productive isolation ri in the laboratory has provided im- portant insights into the underlying evolutionary processes involved 1 2. such data show that key components of the initiation of reproductive divergence can be observed and stud- ied in real time 3-9. a classic study of the evolution of incipient ri arising as a side effect of natural selection to different diets is dodd's experiment on replicated populations of drosophila pseudoobscura 10. in this four populations were each placed onto maltose- or starch-based diets and maintained for a period of 1 y. mating tests were then conducted within and between replicates maintained on each of the regimes and significant assortative mating by diet was observed.

the proposed mecha- nism was via differential effects of gut bacteria on cuticular hy- drocarbons that affect attractiveness 16 18-20.these results stimulated intense interest in the wider role of the gut microbiome in mate choice and potentially speciation 21-24. they also provided a keystone for the upsurge of in- terest in the holobiome concept e.g.

we first described the gut microbiomes on the basis that a precondition for assortative mating mediated by diet andor gut microbiota is that the microbiomes should be at least partially distinct between flies maintained on different diets.

16 could affect mating responses we also tested whether the elimination of gut bacteria followed by l. plantarum add-back could recreate the proposed pattern of assortative mating 16. we first treated the adults with antibiotics which effectively eliminated gut microbiomes supporting information and then retested the flies for mating preferences at three time points as above.

16 and 17 and provide no evi- dence of assortative mating by diet or that mating preference is associated with gut microbiota.12768  leftwich et al.our results suggest that any effects of gut microbes in mate choice or assortative mating in this species are highly variable and represent proximate effects or epiphenomena derived from an as-yet un- identified origin.

1. gut microbiome composition of cmy and starch lines at generation 30. a pcoa of the gut bacterial community of the wild-type strains main- tained on the cmy or starch diets.

48  12769table 1. results of permanova analysis of gut microbiome composition between each of the wild-type lines maintained on cmy or starch diets for 30 generationscomposition of the gut microbiomes of cmy and starch flies using 16s rdna sequencing.

to rule out the effects of variation in gut microbiome composition we also tested the effect of gut microbiome removal andl.

correctionevolutioncorrection for gut microbiomes and reproductive isolation in drosophila by philip t. leftwich naomi v. e. clarke matthew i. hutchings and tracey chapman which was first published november 6 2017 10.1073pnas.1708345114 proc natl acad sci usa 11412767-12772.the authors note that on page 12768 left column first full paragraph line 19 4 propionic acid should instead appear as 0.4 propionic acid.the authors also note that on page 12768 in the final para- graph beginning in the left column lines 5-6 mantel-haenszelmh test statistics kh21  1.35 p  0.24 dahomey mh kh2 0.35 p  0.55 should instead appear as mantel-haenszelmh test statistics kh2  0.2 p  0.66 dahomey mh kh2 0.001 p  0.98 and in the same paragraph line 8 mh kh21 18.15 p  0.001 should instead appear as mh kh2  4.17p  0.041.published under the .

more recently a direct role for the gut microbiome in determining this type of ri in drosophila mel- anogaster has been proposed.

in the absence of evo- lutionary coassociation or recurrent exposure between host and microbiome there are no advantages for the gut bacteria or host in effecting ri.

