additionally gut bacteria are involved in the generation of optimum host immune responses by modulating different immune pathways including the differentiation of regulatory treg and helper th17 t cells  generation of memory alloreactive t cells and controlling maturation of natural killer t nkt cells .

since microbiota can interact with the host's immune responses it is obvious that the crosstalk between microbiota communities and host immune cells can define the function of the transplanted organ.

different factors can disrupt the reciprocal interaction between microbiota and the host immune responses and lead to infection and rejection complications in the organ recipient.

in this review we address the relation between microbiota and immune system along with their possible roles in renal graft outcome.

recently it has been reported that gut microbial community and structure microbiota are associated with complications in kidney allograft recipients  therefore the effect of the microbiome on immune function has drawn significant attention in transplant immunology.microbiota as the second human genome encodes 150-fold more unique genes compared to humans and is involved in the regulation of numerous metabolic pathways such as human's gene expression health development nutrition homeostasis and minimizing the risk of numerous diseases .

most importantly microbiome calibrates the development homeostasis and function of both innate and adaptive immune system locally and systemically .

furthermore by producing immunomodulatory agents microbiota exerts anti-inflammatory properties in multiple immune cell populations .

the imbalance in population composition and structure of bacteria microbiota have repercus- sions on the innate and adaptive immune responses to microbial antigens autoantigens and alloantigens and disruption of this regulation has profound impacts on autoimmunity alloimmunity and graft outcomes .in recent years the role of gut microbiota in renal physiologyand pathophysiology has been revealed .

the following sections review the association of human microbiota with the immune system and kidney graft pathogenesis and focus on how changes in the composition of gut microbiota can strongly affect the allograft outcome.

a flurry of research has revealed that post-transplant complications are thoroughly associated with the immune system .

this study sheds light on the impact of microbiota on drug metabolism besides its immunological key features on transplants.altogether these reports offer a certain connotation betweenalterations in gut microbiota and the immune response that determines the allograft outcome in solid organ transplantation e. g. small bowel lung liver and kidney .

ir and immune suppression expose the transplant recipients to inflammation that in turn could affect microbiota .

on the other hand data indicate that the composition and metabolites of microbiota can provoke signals that stimulate inflammatory or tolerogenic immune responses toward an allograft .

microbiota-derived systemic inflammation may also cause alloimmunity .microbiota and alloimmunitycross-reactive microbiota-derived antigens infection and tissue damage-induced alloreactivity promote graft rejection by molecular mimicry  production of pro-inflammatory cytokines generation of memory alloreactive t and b cells and promoting innate immune responses reviewed in ref.

they found that the exposure of antigen presenting cells to commensal microbiota results in increased type i ifn pathway and priming of alloreactive t cellconsequently accelerating allograft rejection in mice with a normal microbiome compared with germ-free and antibiotic- treated animals .generally gut dysbiosis can be associated with changes in gut immune system gut inflammation increased gut permeability and impaired tolerance to foodmicrobial antigens .

