compared with mice fed a lfd mice fed a hfd had a significant increase in renal interstitial fibrosis which was prevented by concomitant treatment with dmb b and c. importantly in- crease in renal interstitial fibrosis was positively correlated with corresponding elevations in plasma tmao levels d. more-over expression of phosphorylated smad3 a key regulator of the pro-fibrotic transforming growth factor-b1-mediated extracellular matrix production and tissue fibrosis during fibrotic kidney disease  was significantly increased in mice fed a hfd compared with mice fed a lfd but was normalized by dmb treatment e. notably dmb treatment did not alter renal interstitial fibrosis and expression of phosphorylated smad3 in mice fed a lfd.effects of hfd and dmb on renal functionwe next examined whether elevated circulating tmao is amajor contributor to the development of renal dysfunction.

of note a 16-week dmb treatment beginning at the start of diet modification had no significant effects on these measured parameters in mice fed either a lfd or a hfd.effects of hfd and dmb on circulating tmao levels and renalfibrosisafter 16 weeks of diet modification plasma tmao levels were markedly higher in mice fed a hfd than mice fed a lfd a. concomitant treatment with dmb significantly decreased plasma tmao levels in mice fed either a lfd or a hfd.increased interstitial fibrosis has been considered a histologic hallmark of virtually all progressive renal diseases including obesity-related renal injury and it is strongly associated with decline in renal function and long-term prognosis .

expression of nox-4 tnf-a and il-1 b in mice fed a lfd was not affected by dmb treatment.discussionthe novel findings of this study are 1 mice fed a hfd develop obesity and metabolic disorders which are not altered by concomitant treatment with dmb an inhibitor of trimethylamine formation 2 mice fed a hfd have elevated circulating tmao levels increased renal interstitial fibrosis and impaired renal function 3 increased renal interstitial fibrosis and impaired renal function in mice fed a hfd are prevented by treatment with dmbfig.

p  0.05 vs lfd th control yp  0.05 hfd th dmb vs hfd th control.which reduced circulating tmao levels 4 mice fed a hfd exhibit increased oxidative stress and inflammation in the kidney which are inhibited by treatment with dmb 5 elevated circulating tmao levels are positively correlated with increased renalinterstitial fibrosis and the marker of renal dysfunction.

a plasma tmao levels b and c representative images of masson trichrome staining and quantitative analysis of interstitial fibrosis in the kidney d correlation between plasma tmao levels and renal interstitial fibrosis e expression of phosphorylated p- smad3 a key regulator of tissue fibrosis during fibrotic kidney disease.

importantly we found that increases in expression of phosphorylated smad3 a key regulator of renal fibrosis and renal interstitial fibrosis and expression of kim-1 and plasma cystatin c levels in hfd-induced obese mice were prevented by concomitant treatment with dmb which significantly reduced circulating tmao levels.

numerous studies have shown that mice or rats continuously fed high-fat diets or western-style diets high fat combined with sucrose develop obesity as well as path- ological changes in the kidney characterized by glomerulusclerosis proteinuria and interstitial fibrosis e. in the present study we found that mice fed a hfd for 16 weeks developed obesity and metabolic disorders as evidenced by increased bw and elevated plasma levels of insulin cholesterol and triglyceride.

there was no signif- icant difference in mean blood pressure between mice fed a lfd and a hfd at baseline and 16 weeks after diet modification b. at the end of the diet modification the levels of plasma insulin cholesterol and triglyceride were higher in mice fed a hfd than those in mice fed a lfd c d and 1e.

additionally there was a positive correlation between increase in expression of kim-1 in the kidney and corresponding elevations in plasm tmao levels c.effects of hfd and dmb on renal oxidative stress and inflammationoxidative stress and inflammation in the kidney have been demonstrated to play a pivotal role in the initiation and progression of obesity-related renal injury e. to further determine the possible molecular mechanisms by which elevated tmao levels induce renal interstitial fibrosis and dysfunction we measured expression of nox-4 a constitutive active enzyme responsible for the production of reactive oxygen species and proinflammatory cytokines in the kidney.

molecular and morphological studies revealed that renal interstitial fibrosis phosphorylation of smad3 a key regulator of renal fibrosis expression of kidney injury molecule-1 and plasma cystatin c were significantly increased in mice fed a hfd compared with mice fed a lfd.

to examine whether elevated tmao levels contribute to increased interstitial fibrosis in the kidney in hfd-induced obese mice masson trichrome staining was performed to assess renal inter- stitial fibrosis at 16 weeks after hfd feeding and dmb treatment.

dmb treatment prevented increases in expression of kim-1 and plasma levels of cystatin c in mice fed a hfd but had no effects in mice fed a lfd.

animal procedures and protocols were per- formed in accordance with the guiding principles for research involving animals and human beings and they were approved by the institutional animal care and use committee at china medical university.protocolmice were fed either a low-fat diet lfd or a hfd simulta- neously without control or with 33-dimethyl-1-butanol dmb an inhibitor of trimethylamine formation 1.0 in drinking water for 16 weeks n 8 miceper group resulting in 4 experimental groups 1 lfd control 2 lfd dmb 3 hfd control 4 hfd dmb.

these results strongly indicate that elevated circulating tmao levels play a direct contributory role in the development of renal interstitial fibrosis and dysfunction in obesity.increased oxidative stress and inflammation in the kidney may lead to glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis and ulti- mately renal dysfunction in hfd-induced obesity e. oxidative stress can trigger inflammation to generate pro- inflammatory cytokines and chemokines which in turn facilitate oxidative stress .

compared with mice fed a lfd mice fed a hfd developed obesity and metabolic disorders and exhibited significantly elevated plasma tmao levels at the end of the experiment.

