the exis- tence of a link between hbv-induced chronic liver disease and gut microbiota was suggested by studies in animals or patients with hbv-induced chronic liver disease.

in addition these re- sults provide further insights into the dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota in patients with hbv-induced chronic liver disease and may potentially serve as guidance for disease interventions by manipulating gut microbiota.future prospects of fmt therapy for hbv- induced chronic liver diseaseintestinal microbiota can be manipulated to treat diseases in humans.

clinical pro- phylactic treatment to slow the progression of liver disease has made significant advances with the availability of peginter- feron and the nucleostide analogues to sustain suppression of hbv replication e but unfortunately this neglects the role of intestinal microbiota in patients with hbv-induced chronic liver disease .

revealed that an immunotolerating pathway to hbv prevailed in young mice six weeks old before the establishment of gut bacteria through a toll-like-receptor-4 tlr4-dependent pathway and that the maturation of gut microbiota in adult mice stimulated liver immunity resulting in rapid hbv clear- ance.

the concentrations of secretory immunoglobulin a siga and tumour necrosis factor-a tnf-a in the decom- pensated hbv cirrhotic patients were higher than in the healthy controls asymptomatic hbv carriers and chronic hepatitis b patients.

possible mechanisms of action of fmt in these situations include manipulation of the composition of gut microbiota fortification of the intestinal barrier and suppression of patho- gens and immunomodulation  e. a growing body of evidence shed light on the association between dys- biosis of gut microbiota and hbv-induced chronic liver disease.

translocation of gut microbial products bacterial peptido- glycan flagellin and metabolic byproducts has been suggested to aggravate the clinical course of patients with chronic liver disease  and intestinal dysfunction in liver cirrhosis is well known .

above all alterations in gut microbiota and colonization by opportunistic bacteria may increase the risk of developing comorbid conditions in patients with hbv-induced chronic liver disease.

recent research compared chi- nese patients with asymptomatic carriage of hbv chronic hepatitis b decompensated hbv cirrhosis and healthy controls .

also the bifidobacteriaenterobacteriaceae be ratio was significantly lower in asymptomatic carriers patients with chronic hepatitis b and patients with decompensated hbv cirrhosis compared with healthy controls.

provided an overview of the diversity of intestinal lactobacilli in 173 chi- nese patients including 61 patients with hbv-related decom- pensated cirrhosis group lc 74 patients who had undergone liver transplant for hepatitis b cirrhosis group lt and 38healthy volunteers.

changes in intestinal microbiota seem to play an important role in induction and promo- tion of hbv-induced chronic liver disease progression and specific species among the intestinal commensal bacteria may play either a pathogenic or a protective role in the development of hbv-induced chronic liver disease.

kang  y. cai a medical faculty kunming university of science and technology kunming yunnan chinab genetics and pharmacogenomics laboratory kunming university of science and technology kunming yunnan chinac pathogen biology laboratory kunming university of science and technology kunming yunnan chinaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 22 march 2017accepted 9 april 2017available online 15 april 2017keywordshbv infection gut microbiota fmtchronic liver disease immunitys u m m a r yhepatitis b is one of the most common infectious diseases globally.

altered gut microbiota is a common complication in liver disease.

thus the gut microbiome may represent fertile targets for prevention or management of hbv-induced chronic liver disease.

