this review will synthesize the recent efforts on unraveling the mediating role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of metabolic diseases aiming to reveal new therapeutic opportunities.keywords gut microbiota dysbiosis metabolic diseases immune responses nutrient-sensing receptors energy metabolismdiet-driven gut microbiota dysbiosis is causallylinked to the type ii diabetes mellitus t2dm and related metabolic disorderstype ii diabetes mellitus a major constituent of metabolic diseases is clinically hallmarked by hyperglycemia impaired peripheral response to insulin i.e.

these findings support the role of myd88 as a pharmacological target for metabolic disease though it multifaceted functions warrant further investigation.nutrient-sensing mechanisms are key metabolic mediators of host responses to gut microbiota alterationsit has been increasingly established that in the metabolic machinery g-protein coupled receptor gpcr-mediated nutrient sensing serves as essential mechanisms that coordinate host responses to dietary and endogenous nutrients gaining significant interest as a putative therapeutic target for metabolic diseases.

it has been recently reported that the obese phenotype is associ- ated with a gut microbiota that promotes deconjugation of bile acids resulting in increased hepatic steatosis and weight gain via the activation of fxr   which may bear implications for treating metabolic diseases.concluding remarksas the dysbiosis of gut microbiota is increasingly appreciated as a mechanism accounting for metabolic diseases the growing understanding of microbiota-driven immune and metabolic responses has begun to reveal potential interventional targets sustaining the development of new therapeutic strategies by dietary andor pharmacological means.

unraveling these mechanisms hence provides unique insights into the therapeutic opportunities for diabetes obesity and other metabolic diseases.in light of the previous findings that have been efficiently summarized in several review articles - we would like to discuss the mechanistic basis of the emerging therapeutic strate- gies that target the host immune and nutrient-sensing pathways and to synthesize the most recent innovations and trends in the treatment of metabolic diseases.the trialogue between nutritional status gut microbiota and immune systemreveals novel therapeutic opportunities for metabolicdiseasesmetabolic diseases are characterized by a state of chronic sub- clinical inflammation in metabolic tissues such as liver adipose muscles and pancreatic islets.

genome med 2016 842. doyang j kweon m. the gut microbiota a key regulator of metabolic diseases.bmb rep 2016 49536-41. docani p bibiloni r knauf c waget a neyrinck a delzenne n et al.

metabolic syndrome and altered gut microbiota in mice lacking toll-like receptor 5. science 2010 328228-31. dochassaing b ley r gewirtz a. intestinal epithelial cell toll-like receptor 5 regulates the intestinal microbiota to prevent low-grade inflammation and metabolic syndrome in mice.

to date a wealth of evidence has emerged among which a remarkable example is the replication of obese phenotypes of human discordant twin donors in rodent animals by fecal microbiota transplantation  substantiating the causative andor mediatory role of gut microbiota particularly in the context of diet-induced metabolic diseases.the gut microbiota is dominated by the phyla firmicutes and bacteroidetes.

microbiota derived lps highlights the role of a modulated gut microbiota as a media- tor of metabolic conditions .

prebiotics probiotics and postbiotics and fecal microbiota transplantation that tackle microbiota dysbiosis and 2 manipu- lation of the key players in the intestinal integrity and function bacterial recognition and translocation tissue inflammation and host nutrient-sensing mechanisms by using such as receptor agonistsantagonists and anti-inflammatory agents in particular recent reports about vaccination and genetic modulation of the gut microbial metabolites further add to our knowledge of the therapeutics of metabolic diseases .author contributionsxl and kw wrote the paper.

one com- pelling set of mechanisms dictate the translocation of commensal bacteria and bacterial fragments toward metabolic tissues where they trigger pro-inflammatory responses at the early onset of metabolic disorders.

the role of bacterial muramyl dipeptide as a postbiotic has also been documented in reducing inflammation and promoting insulin signaling in the state of metabolic endotoxemia glycemiaand obesity via a pathway that involves nod2 .upon being translocated to metabolic tissues lps can elicit pro-inflammatory responses via pathways mediated primarily by tlr-4  with the involvement of tlr-2  and tlr-9  diminishing insulin signaling and increasing adiposity in the state of obesity and t2dm.

metabolic endotoxemia directly increases the proliferation of adipocyte precursors at the onset of metabolic diseases through a cd14-dependent mechanism.

recently cohen et al.

ik supervised and wrote the paper.referencesridaura v faith j rey f cheng j duncan a kau a et al.

nature 2006 4441027-31. domartinez-medina m denizot j dreux n robin f billard e bonnet r et al.

