chronic low-grade inflammation maybe lead to htn low-grade inflammation can be the result of gut microbial action thus intestinal microbiota appear to contribute to the development of htn by inducinggut microbiota and hypertension from pathogenesis to new therapeutic strategies3figure 2 gut microbiota involved in manipulation of bp.

at last by fecal transplantation from hypertensive human donors to germ-free gf c57bl6l mice elevated blood pressure was observed to be transferable through microbiota moreover at the genus level anaerotruncus coprococcus ruminococcus clostridium roseburia blautia and bifidobasterium were confirmed to be deficient while coprobacillus and prevotella were shown to be more abundant in htn mice which was in agreement with htn subjects and the direct influence of gut microbiota on blood pressure of the host was demon- strated above all alterations in gut microbiota and colonization by opportunistic bacteria may boost the risk of developing htn.

recent studies in animal models and human subjects have revealed that dysbiosis of the gut microbiota is associated with htn pro- gression changes in the abundance of some gut microbial strains have been shown to inhibit or attenuate immune responses associated with chronic inflammation and they may be biomarkers for htn prevention and treat- ment.

in addition the metabolites of gut microbiota such as p-cresol sulfate indoxyl sulfate trimethylamine n-oxide tmao and short chain fatty acids scfas can profoundly affect the cardiovascular system the intestinal bacteria have profound effects on the hosts' biology including the ability of the kidney to excrete sodium load and regulate blood pressure previ- ous study had found that chronic kidney disease patients have elevated plasma levels of tmao this ele- vation in plasma tmao levels maybe mainly due to gut microbial action.

there are still many unclear mech- anisms.the role of gut microbiota in hypertensionrecently it was indicated that gut microbial triggers have been implicated in htn the vast majority of these stud- ies suggested that the subjects with htn exhibit alterations in the relative abundance of ''beneficial'' and potentially ''harmful'' bacteria compared to healthy subjects  there is convincing evidence from both human and ani- mal studies suggesting that different kinds of factors e.g.

fae- calibacterium and roseburia are crucial for butyric acid production moreover bifidobacterium is an impor- tant probiotic influencing intestinal microbial homeostasis gut barrier and lipopolysaccharide lps reduction the authors took gene functional annotation further found functional alteration in gut microbiota of phtn and htn.

probiotics can confer health benefits by mod- ulating the composition of gut microbiota to restore thegut microbiota and hypertension from pathogenesis to new therapeutic strategies7physiological bacterial flora.

accumulating evidence has illustrated the association of dysbiosis of gut microbiota with hypertension.

in this review we summarize the role of gut microbiota in hypertension progression and probiotics in the treatment of hypertension.c 2017 elsevier masson sas.

in this review we summarize recent literature to help further understand how the alteration of gut microbiota composition contributes to htn.

the therapeutic effect of probiotics in the treatment of htn is also evaluated based on previous publications.the role of gut microbiota in hypertension pathogenesishypertension pathogenesishtn is the most common chronic disease characterized by a sustained systolic blood pressure bp value of 140 mmhg and a diastolic pressure of 90 mmhg 14090 in young persons.

that gut microbiota can influence the production of various hormones such as serotonin dopamine and norepi- nephrine which can affect bp.

scfa produced by the gut microbiota influence blood pressure that is related to renal sensory nerves these scfas activate two orphan g protein- coupled receptors gpr41 also known as free fatty acid receptor 3 gpr43 also known as free fatty acid recep- tor 2 and olfactory receptor 78 olfr78 that can regulate blood pressure.

gut microbiota can affect bp by influencing the production of serotonin dopamine and norepinephrine and regulating sodium metabolism and inflammation.

in addition the metabolites of gut microbiota such as p-cresol sulfate indoxyl sulfate tmao and scfas can profoundly affect the cardiovascular system.

