in our experiment drg cd11b cd45hi cells presumably macrophages were less abundant in abx mice than in h2o mice fig 2a b after oxaliplatin therapy.we stimulated mouse primary macrophages with oxaliplatin in the presence or absence of lipopolysaccharides lps a gram negative bacterial wall component.

without lps oxaliplatin at 1 mm failed to stimulate macrophages to secrete il-6 and tnfa and even at a higher oxaliplatin concentration 10 mm only a low concentration of il-6 and tnfa was detected fig.

moreover we confirmed that the lps and oxaliplatin concentrations that we used in cell culture did not increase cell death supplementary fig 6. therefore oxaliplatin was ineffective in stimulating inflammatory cytokine production in vitro without the presence of lps indicating that a permissive signal would be required for macrophages to mount an inflammatory response against oxaliplatin.we posit that this permissive signal is likely to be lps derived from gut microbiota.

our data indicate that lps enabled and augmented macrophages to secret inflammatory cytokines in response to oxaliplatin exposure showing a synergy between signals derived from gut microbiota and the impact of oxaliplatin itself on immune cells.

mice were injected intrathecally every other day starting from three weeks prior to oxaliplatin therapy and continuing through the entire experiment.oxaliplatin therapyto induce mechanical hyperalgesia oxaliplatin sagent pharmaceuticals il was administered intraperitoneally at 3 mgkg for mice and 2 mgkg for rats for five consecutive days at a total dose of 15 mgkg and 10 mgkg respectively.

p0.05 gf conv oxaliplatin vs. gf oxaliplatin.

n8 for gf oxaliplatin n7 for gf saline n7 for gf conv oxaliplatin n6 for gf conv saline.

p0.05 vs oxaliplatin 0  p0.05 vs oxaliplatin 1mm.

lps levels in sera and drg were higher in the 'h2o oxaliplatin' group than in the 'abx oxaliplatin' group.

these effects appear to be mediated in part by tlr4 expressed on hematopoietic cells including macrophages.chemotherapeutic drugs such as oxaliplatin induce peripheral neuropathy that affects more than 30 of patients under treatment.

recently gut microbiota has been shown to play a critical role in the tumor killing effect of many chemotherapeutics drugs including oxaliplatin2 3. however it is unknown whether neuropathic pain a major side effect of chemotherapy would be influenced by gut microbiota.we exposed mice with a cocktail of antibiotics in drinking water starting 3 weeks before oxaliplatin administration and continuing throughout the experiment.

we then exposed abx mice fed with antibiotic water and h2o mice fed with regular water to either saline or oxaliplatin treatment.

while abx mice did not show changes in baseline nociceptive threshold mechanical hyperalgesia was not detectable after the oxaliplatin therapy fig 1dp0.05 abxoxaliplatin vs. abxsaline or h2osaline except on day 7 fig 1d.

in contrast mechanical hyperalgesia was clearly demonstrated in h2o mice fig 1d p0.05 h2o oxaliplatin vs. h2osaline as shown in previous studies5 6. thus temporary gut microbiota eradication protected those mice from developing mechanical hyperalgesia.

conventionalization of gf mice to spf status abrogated the protection mediated by gf status fig 1f supporting that the gut microbiota in spf mice likely mediates oxaliplatin-induced mechanical hyperalgesia.to investigate the underlying mechanism of the above phenotypes we first examined the possibility that gut microbiota eradication may alter tissue distribution of oxaliplatin.

