gut microbiota provide a host of useful functions in return the host intestine provides nutri- ent rich environment in which microbiota can thrive and aid the host homeostasis modulation 3. hence the dysbiosis of healthy gut microbiota may correlate to the deterioration of host and microbiota mutualis- tic relationship leading to the several disorders 4.changes of gut microbiota has been linked to many diseases such as neuropsychological disease includ- ing depression 5 stress 6 and autism spectrum disorder 7 metabolic disorders such as obesity 8 metabolic syndrome 9 atherosclerosis 10 type 1diabetes 11 type 2 diabetes 12 and gastrointesti- nal disorders including crohn's disease 13 inflam- matory bowel disease 14 irritable bowel syndrome 15 colorectal cancer 16 ulcerative colitis 17 liver disease 18 and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease 19. other diseases which are related to the gut mi- crobiota include auto immune disorder 20 allergy 21 cardiac asthma 22 alzheimer 23 cardiovas- cular disease 24 and celiac 25. fortunately stud- ies have also demonstrated that gut microbiota may be modulated with the use of prebiotics probiotics antibiotics and fecal transplantation of microbiota as gut flora associated diseases therapeutic agents.

many medium-scale studies have been newly identified the microbiota of colonic tumor biopsies compared to healthy mucosa with metatranscriptomic sequencing or quantifying the 16s rrna phylogenetic marker gene 27.the gut microbiota community.

plos one 2011 6e20447.hold gl smith m grange ch robert watt e m el- omar e mukhopadhya i. role of the gut microbiota in inflammatory bowel disease pathogenesis what have we learnt in the past 10 years world j gastroenterol 2014 20 1192-1210.llorente c schnabl b. the gut microbiota and liver disease.

volume 9 number 2 april 2017 55-63gut microbiota epigenetic modification and colorectal cancersama rezasoltani1 hamid asadzadeh-aghdaei1 ehsan nazemalhosseini-mojarad2 hossein dabiri3 reza ghanbari4 mohammad reza zali21basic and molecular epidemiology of gastrointestinal disorders research center research institute for gastroenterology and liver diseases shahid beheshti university of medical sciencestehran iran2gastroenterology and liver diseases research center research institute for gastroenterology and liver diseases shahid beheshti university of medical sciences tehran iran3department of medical microbiology school of medicine shahid beheshti university of medical sciences tehran iran4digestive oncology research center digestive diseases research institute tehran university of medical sciences tehran iranreceived january 2017 accepted march 2017abstractmicro-organisms contain 90 of cells in human body and trillions foreign genes versus less than 30 thousand of their own.

herein we discuss the mechanism of epigenetic modification and its implication in crc development progression even metastasis by gut micro- biota induction.keywords gut microbiota colorectal cancer epigenetic modificationcorresponding author ehsan nazemalhosseini-moja- rad phd gastroenterology and liver diseases research center research institute for gastroenterology and liver diseases shahid beheshti university of medical sciences tehran iran.tel 98-21-22432516introductionmicrobiota and types of disease.

potential of fecal microbiota for ear- ly-stage detection of colorectal cancer.

colorectal cancer looking for answers in the microbiota.

cell host microbe 2014 15317-328.yang t owen jl lightfoot yl kladde mp mo- hamadzadeh m. microbiota impact on the epigenetic regulation of colorectal cancer.

cancer epidemiol biomarkers prev 2008 17 2970-2979.yang t owen jl lightfooot yl kladde mp mo- hamadzadeh m. microbiota impact on the epigenetic regulation of colorectal cancer.

for example in one study flavinofractor genus inversely correlated to methylation of genes occur- ring at the first steps of the colorectal carcinogenesis while peptostreptococcus and schwartzia genus di- rectly correlated with colorectal carcinogenesis relat- ed gene methylation 79. in other study the firmic- utes phyla directly correlated and bacteroides group inversely correlated with cdh13 methylation 80.histone modification.

the human colon host various species of microorganisms appraised at more than 1014 microbiota and contained of over a thousand species.

the most ubiquitous environmental factor in epigenetic modification is gut microbiota.

gut microbiota may play critical role in progression of crc via their metabolite or their structural component interacting with host intestinal epithelial cell iec.

this modulation of gut microbiota is currently an import- ant area of research as it just might find the solution for related diseases treatment 26. gaining a wide view of the microbial environment in our gut-mi- crobiome has become possible with high-throughput micro environmental sequencing techniques.

this field of studies is recent one and worldwide efforts are un- derway to identify human microbiome 30.with using next generation sequencing and py- rosequencing techniques based on ribosomal 16s bacterial genes a new insight opened to the identi- fication of intestinal gut microbiota 29. despite the use of these techniques the gut microbiome com- position has not been definitely identified 29 30. however there is an estimation that gasterointestinal tract at the phylum level is predominated colonized by the firmicutes 75 and bacteroidetes 20 followed by the proteobacteria and actinobacteria.currently researchers have identified various mi- crobial groups associated with crc.

