the microbiomic approach to bacterial detection instead uses a culture-independent method of isolating the 16s ribosomal rna from existing bacteria present in the collected specimen and amplifies this genomic material without relying on amplificationreplication of the whole microorganism itself 77.early studies applying these culture-independent pcr- based methods of detecting uropathogens in expressed prostatic secretions prostatitis patients demonstrated the presence of detectable bacterial ribosomal rna in both chronic bacterial prostatitis and chronic non-bacterial prostatitis 78. higher levels of 16s ribosomal rna have been detected in prostate tissue or prostatic fluid of patients with prostate cancer benign prostatic hyperplasia and cpcpps 7879. many previous studies have attempted to evaluate the bacterial flora present within the prostate using prostate tissue either from biopsies or whole-gland sections 80. however there also has been variability in how patients were categorized as having cpcpps 81. in one study of men with cpcpps it was hypothesized that the local microbiota of the prostate in cpcpps patients would be different than that of controls either due to or being the cause of an inflammatory process within the tissue.

analysis revealed alterations to both the abundance and diversity of the gut microbiome with changes persisting until about 4 weeks after treatment ended 86.in a comprehensive approach to evaluating changes in the gut microbiome in men with category iii prostatitis shoskes and colleagues attempted to correlate findings with clinical measurements such as symptom severity using the nih-cpsi and phenotype using upoint 87. cp cpps patients showed a pattern of clustering distinct from demographically similar controls and analysis revealed lower mean alpha diversity of the gut microbiome in the cpcpps group with significantly different gut microbial taxa between the two groups the most significant of which was underrepresentation of prevotella genus known to colonize the gastrointestinal tract and suspected toarora et al.

patients may even develop pelvic floor dysfunction as a result 30. sensitization is thought to occur at a cns level resulting in an altered visceral pain response and chronic neuropathic state 22. a number of risk factors have been suggested in the pathophysiology of cpcpps including intra-prostatic urinary reflux hormonal imbalances psychological factors autoimmune disease musculoskeletal dysfunction voiding dysfunction and cytokine imbalances 31-37. however none of these have revealed a definitive pathway for the development of cpcpps and unfortunately no validated biomarkers exist to aid in the diagnosis or clinical severity of cpcpps.in order to distinguish cpcpps from other similarannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 2 january 2017page 3 of 10clinical entities the national institutes of health nih delineates it as one of four sub-categories of prostatitis.

cpcpps comprises category iii prostatitis which is further subdivided into inflammatory iiia and non-inflammatory iiib sub-types as differentiated by the presence of leukocytes in extraprostatic secretions post- prostate massage urine specimens vb3 or semen 3839. the distinction between iiia and iiib prostatitis however has not been shown to have an impact on symptoms 40. as a result cpcpps is often a diagnosis of exclusion as it is considered the most likely diagnosis in the absence of other identifiable causative factors such as growth of known uropathogens on standard culture media.

these findings present potential new diagnostic and therapeutic targets in cpcpps patients.keywords microbiota prostatitis chronic pain pelvic painsubmitted aug 18 2016. accepted for publication sep 12 2016. doi 10.21037atm.2016.12.32view this article at increasing interest has been directed towards the study of the human microbiome defined as the ecological community of commensal symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms and their genetic content inhabiting the human body 1. while our own human genome contains approximately 20000 protein-encoding genes it has been estimated that the sheer number of microbiota living on and inside of us is at least 10 times the number of somatic and germ cells in our bodies 2. as we are beginning to understand the role of the microbiome in healthy humans it is becoming increasingly clear that there existsinterplay and symbiotic relationships between our bodies and these microorganisms the most abundant of which can be found in the gut.

deviations from the normal human gut microbiome have been discovered in a variety of diseases and conditions including inflammatory bowel disease colorectal cancer obesitymetabolic syndrome type 2 diabetes mellitus breast cancer autoimmune disease autism spectrum disorder post-traumatic stress disorder and responsiveness to visceral pain 3-10. studies in small mammals are revealing even more relationships between the gut microbiome and the central nervous system cns thanpage 2 of 10previously thought suggesting the existence of a gut-brain axis whereby the gut microbiome modulates the cns andor vice versa 11-14. still these differences are only correlative and to date causative mechanistic relationships between alterations in the microbiome also known a microbial dysbiosis and human pathology have yet to be discovered.many of the human tissues or bodily fluids studied had previously been considered sterile per conventional culture methods.

whereas bacterial pain phenotypes have been identified in murine models of urinary tract infection a group from northwestern university hypothesized that the microbiome of adjacent organs namely the gut andannals of translational medicine vol 5 no 2 january 2017page 7 of 10reproductive tract might modulate pelvic pain through organ crosstalk visceral sensory pathways 9091. while analysis of the vaginal microbiome did not yield significant differences between icbps patients and controls analysis of the stool gut microbiome revealed differential representation of specific bacterial species suggesting that these characteristic changes in the microbiome may lead to use as potential biomarkers for the disease state 92. in an earlier study by the same group female patients classified as having urologic cpps were classified by self-report as currently having symptom flares acute worsening of symptoms versus no flares and initial and mid-stream urine specimens were collected and microbiomes of urethral and mid-stream urine were analyzed.

the susceptibilities of the majority of the bacteria that comprise the microbiome are rarely taken into consideration when prescribing because they are often thought to be of little clinical significance until patients subsequently develop antibiotic-associated diarrhea or contract an opportunistic infection by clostridium difficile and even develop pseudomembranous colitis a life- threatening condition 1617. the effects of antibiotics on the gut microbiome have been well documented and may persist for a period up to many months after a treatment course has been completed typically resulting in a decrease in both abundance and diversity of bacterial genera 1819.chronic prostatitischronic pelvic pain syndrome cpcppscpcpps is characterized by a variety of symptoms and has been shown to have a significant impact on quality of life 20. while most typically associated with pain in the pelvic region patients may have varying degrees of obstructive andor irritative voiding symptoms pain with ejaculation sexual dysfunction depression andor psychosocial dysfunction that may be concomitant or related to thearora et al.

the greatest changes were seen in patients'annals of translational medicine vol 5 no 2 january 2017page 5 of 10pain and quality-of-life scores but quercetin did not appear to significantly affect the urinary score further supporting the need to assess and treat cpcpps as a syndrome with a constellation of symptoms rather than by attempting to address it through monotherapy.while quercetin has previously been cited to exercise both anti-inflammatory and anti-obesity effects the mechanism by which these properties exist is largely unknown 6263. in vitro quercetin has been shown to increase pten expression and downregulate the akt pathway 64. as has been recently shown pten plays a role in development of the immune system 6566. similarly diet and obesity have been shown to be associated with imbalances in the gut microbiome 6768. owing to the fact that quercetin is known to be poorly absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract and the majority of the dosage reaches the colon intact 6970 etxeberria and colleagues postulated that oral administration of quercetin might exert some of its anti-obesity effects through alterations in the gut microbial ecosystem 71. the study authors induced dysbiosis of the gut microbiome by feeding wistar rats a high-fat sucrose diet and subsequently treating them with quercetin trans-resveratol or a combination of the two.

in addition alterations in the normal stool microbiome have shown correlations with the presence of urologic diseases as with many other areas of the body that are thought to be physically distinct from the gut 73. for example patients with renal calcium oxalate stones have been shown to have decreased oxalobacter formigenes in the gut microbiome a bacterial known to degrade dietary oxalate and thus is thought to at least be partially irresponsible for lower levels of urinary oxalate 74-76. unfortunately a mechanistic relationship between the gut microbiome and urologic disease is not always so straightforward to discern.as discussed previously the absence of any identifiable bacterial infection is a hallmark of cpcpps.

while it may have been suspected that increases symptom severity and symptom duration would be due to a similar pattern of microbial dysbiosis lefse analysis revealed that different sets of bacterial taxa were overrepresented in the psychosocial-predominant and neurologic-predominant groups 88. the authors conclude that the observed differences in the gut or urinary microbiome may present potential objective biomarkers for clearly identifying cpcpps in patients with pelvic pain rather than relying on purely clinical or phenotypic variables for classification however further study is needed.microbiome differences have likewise been discovered in another poorly understood urologic pelvic pain syndrome icbps in women.

benef microbes 201453-17.gagniere j raisch j veziant j et al.

isolation of chlamydia trachomatis from the prostatic cells in patients affected by nonacute abacterial prostatitis j urol 1985134691-3.potts j payne re.

in a prospective double-blind randomized placebo- controlled trial shoskes and colleagues investigated the use of the quercetin-containing commercial drug prost-q as a treatment option for men with category iii chronic prostatitis 60. a prior study had shown that quercetin intake resulted in significant symptomatic improvement in 59 of men with chronic prostatitis 61. thirty patients who met criteria for cpcpps and had never taken quercetin before were enrolled in the study.

at a total of 18 months follow-up 77.5 of patients saw improvements in nih-cpsi of six points or greater with improvements in both total cpsi and voiding symptoms in patients who received antibiotics over those who did not receive antibiotics regardless of whether they were initially classified as category iiia or iiib prostatitis 54.quercetinas the scientific method is applied to what are traditionally considered complementary and alternative medical therapies the discovery of potentially bioactive properties in naturally-occurring biological compounds is receiving wide spread recognition in the peer-reviewed literature 55-59.the bioflavonoid quercetin has been identified as a compound with effects on both gut microbiota composition and cpcpps though the mechanism by which it exerts its effects particularly in the latter is not well known.

