moreover fresh faecalclostridium histolyticum and clostridium perfringens whichwas partially attributed to their polyphenol content .cocoa diet on a rat oral sensitization model 22. these results led us to ascertain whether a cocoa diet may exert its effects at least partially by influencing the microbiota composition in this rat oral sensitization model 22 3. taking all these facts into consideration the aim of the present study was to establish the influence of an oral sensitization model both alone and together with a cocoa-enriched diet on gut microbiota.materials and methodsanimals and diets.

although no significant modifications at phyla level were observed in our sensitization model in the firmicutes phylum the ova plus ct administration in both dietsdecreased the relative abundance of bacteria belonging to the erysipelotrichales order which is in line with data obtained after the oral sensitization of il4raf709 transgenic mice 28. a deeper analysis revealed that the oral sensitization reduced the relative abundance of the erysipelotrichaceae family and the allobaculum genus.

the firmi- cutes phylum species included bacillus and christensenella genera the tenericutes phylum included the anaeroplasma genus table  and the actinobacteria phylum species also found in the ovac group was bifidobacterium pseudo- longum table with regard to the sensitized group fed a cocoa diet nine different species were found with respect to the rf and ova groups table two species belonged to the bacteroidetes806040151050rf ova ovac ova arfbphylum one of those being prevotella copri.

on the other hand some qualitative changes in the microbiota composition appeared due to sensitization new bacteria colonized the damaged mucosa four new species and some others could not resist the new environment ten species disappeared which also suggests lower diversity which is in accordance with what happened in children with eczema 30. with regard to the bacteria species that were not found in orallysensitized animals the absence of akkermansia muciniphila from the verrucomicrobia phylum is of particular interest.

in reference conditions eight different species were unique in the rf group meaning that these species disappeared due to the oral sensitization ova and ovac groups.

and a new tm7 bacterium was also found in the ovac group.it is worth noting that two bacterial species were not found in the ova group but were present in both the rf and ovac groups suggesting that the cocoa diet failed to eliminate these species due to the oral sensitization.

feeding of 10 cocoa diet for 6 weeks in wistar rats decreased the proportion of bacteroides the staphylococcus genus and the clostridium histolyticum subgroup 0. another study in which three different amounts of cocoa polyphenols were given to the same rat strain for 4 weeks described the age-dependent inhibition of the growth of staphylococcus streptococcusstandard diet and oral ova sensitization and the ovac group 10 cocoa diet and oral ova sensitization.

the current study by means of a metagenomic approach was able to go more deeply into establishing the effect of a cocoa diet and also an oral sensitization proceduretenericutesverrucomicrobiatotal0.5000.3320.650figure 5 summary of the changes on gut microbiota on a rat oral sensitization model fed either a standard diet or a 10 cocoa diet and its possible effects on the immune system.

in this study we describe microbiota changes appearing in orally sensitized animals fed both a standard and cocoa diet figure  which means that the changes must be due to oral sensitization moreover we found microbiota alterations only in the orally sensitized animals fed the standard diet meaning that the cocoa diet prevented such effects induced by ova and ct and finally we observed microbiota modifications only in animals fed cocoa which suggest these were mainly due to cocoa diet.the oral sensitization did not induce any significant change at the phyla level.

a total of 90 species were detected in the rf group 84 species in the ova group and 86 species in the ovac group.

the number of different species classified into the different phyla is shown in figure for all animals the highest bacteria richness was found in the firmicutes bacteroidetes and proteobacteria phyla.in order to establish the differences among the bacteria species found in each group a venn diagram was plotted figure out of all the faecal detected species 74 were present in the three studied groups.

the diagram shows the absolute number of detected species that belong to each group the detected species in common between each pair of groups and in the centre the detected species in common among all three groups.the firmicutes phylum in particular the clostridia e.g.

camps-bossacoma m. abril-gil s. saldana-ruiz a. franch f. pe'rez-cano and m. castell cocoa diet prevents antibody synthesis and modifies lymph node composition and functionality in a rat oral sensitization model nutrients vol.

camps-bossacoma m. abril-gil a. franch f. j. perez- cano and m. castell induction of an oral sensitization model in rats clinical immunology endocrine  metabolic drugs vol.

with regard to the proteobacteria phylum the three species that disap- peared due to the oral sensitization procedure belonged to either the alphaproteobacteria class rhodospirillales order the deltaproteobacteria class spirobacillales order or the gammaproteobacteria class vibrionales order.

