then the mice were divided into four groups as follows hfd group hfd n8 antibiotic-treated group ab n10 simvastatin-treated group sv n13 and combined antibiotic and simvastatin treatment group absv n12.

we observed that the relative concentration of lca was increased in hfd group compared to control group and was further up-regulated in sv group but was greatly depleted in either ab or absv group.

con control group hfd high-fatcholesterol diet group ab antibiotic group sv simvastatin 20 mgkg group absv simvastatin 20 mgkg in the presence of antibiotic treatment.he et al.page 17figure 2.antibiotic treatment altered the composition of gut microbiota.

con control group hfd high-fatcholesterol diet group ab antibiotic group sv simvastatin 20 mgkg group absv simvastatin 20 mgkg in the presence of antibiotic treatment.

among these significantly altered genes only cyp7b1 was statistically restored in absv group compared to sv group while cyp7a1 was also restored by absv but without statistical significance fig 5. therefore the transcriptional data suggested that the attenuated hypolipidemic effect in absv group was probably associated with the process of bile acids synthesis.gut microbiota modulation decreased sv-induced protein expression in regulating bile acids synthesisgiven the critical roles of bile acids synthesis in affecting cholesterol level as well as the observed transcriptional variations of cyp7a1 and cyp7b1 genes among different groups we further measured their expression at protein level.

p0.05 vs con group p0.05 vs hfd group p0.05 vs sv group.

indicates p0.05 compared to control group p0.05 compared to hfd group p0.05 compared to sv group with two-tailed student's t test.he et al.page 21figure 6.expression of hepatic proteins with western blot.

indicates p0.05 compared to control group p0.05 compared to hfd group p0.05 compared to sv group with two- tailed student's t test.table 1serum differential metabolites based on combined gc-ms and uplc-qtofms p value fold change vs conserum bile acid profiles among groupstable 2 mean-sd fold change vs conp0.05p0.01p0.001 vs con groupp0.05p0.01p0.001 vs hfd groupp0.05 vs sv group.comparisons between groups were analyzed with two-tailed student's t-test.

interestingly absv group was also separated from ab group by pc2 15.23 fig 2a.

moreover most of these metabolites were differently altered in sv and absv groups except for the lysopcs that were changed with similar extent in both sv and absv groups table 1.in addition to the measurement of serum tc with biochemical kit we found that the relative concentrations of serum free cholesterol were also significantly increased in hfd group and greatly reduced in sv but not in absv group detected by gc-ms. altogether the serum metabolic profile indicated that hfd resulted in dramatically metabolic alteration which was effectively restored by sv but not by absv suggesting the metabolic and gut microbial involvement in mediating hypolipidemic efficacy of sv.serum bile acid profiles among groupssince bile acids are derived from cholesterol and metabolized by gut microbiota the variation of serum cholesterol level is associated with the alteration of bile acid metabolism 21. to investigate the involvement of bile acid metabolism in hypolipidemic effect of sv with or without gut microbiota modulation we measured the levels of 16 bile acids in serum samples from different groups with uplc-msms.

the relative concentrations of ca tca and gca were dramatically reduced in hfd group compared to control group in which only tca was further depleted by sv treatment.

in our current study we observed that both udca and its conjugated forms gudca and tudca were dramatically up-regulated in hfd and ab groups and significantly reduced in sv group but not in absv group.

generally hfd feeding resulted in obvious changes of detected bile acids in abundance and minor changes were observed in either ab or absv group compared to hfd group.

we found that the bile acids in control group mainly consisted of ca dca tca and tdca all of which were obviously reduced in hfd group.

the transcriptional expression of 28 genes was significantly changed by hfd feeding in comparison with con group however only a very small part of the differently expressed genes were reversed by sv treatment such as apoa4 cyp7a1 cyp7b1 cyp51 and srebf1 compared to hfd group.

