while gi symptomatology could be viewed as nothing more than a frequently occurring exacerbating factor facing asd patients it could also be that these symptoms point to a much more fundamental relationship that the gut plays a pivotal role in the etiology of asd in a subset of patients.hypothesized role of clostridiumgiven the observation that the onset of neurobehavioral symptoms and chronic diarrhea appeared to occur after repeated courses of antibiotics in a subset of children withthe regressive form of asd a species of toxin-producing clostridium was proposed as a possible cause.

moreover this study included children with asd with and without gi symptoms and found that within the asd group high level of clostridium species were significantly associated with gi problems.differences in the prevalence of sutterellaand other speciessutterella a genus of anaerobic gram negative bacteria within the proteobacteria phylum has also been hypoth- esized to play a role in asd.

one proposed mechanism is that fermenta- tion processes or utilization of fermentation products may be altered in children with asd as compared to children without asd thereby impacting neurodevelopment and behavior.propionic acid ppa and other short chain fatty acids scfasdietary carbohydrates specifically resistant starches and dietary fiber are substrates for fermentation that produce scfas as end products with the rate and amount of scfa production dependent on the composition of the microbi- ota the substrate source and gut transit time wong et al.. asd-associated bacteria clostridia bacteroidetes desulfovibrio play an important role in the production of ppa and its related scfas which after readily crossing the gut-blood and blood-brain barriers can then induce wide- spread effects on gut brain and behavior macfabe .

2014. preva- lence of autism spectrum disorder among children aged 8 years autism and developmental disabilities monitoring network 11 sites united states 2010. mmwr surveillance summaries 632 1-21.de angelis m. piccolo m. vannini l. siragusa s. de giacomo a. serrazzanetti d. i.... francavilla r. 2013. fecal microbi- ota and metabolome of children with autism and pervasive devel- opmental disorder not otherwise specified.

journal of neurodevelopmental disorders 51 9. doi.parracho h. m. bingham m. o. gibson g. r.  mccartney a. l. 2005. differences between the gut microflora of children with autistic spectrum disorders and that of healthy children.

the causes of asd are largely unknown except in the rare instance when identifiable genetic abnormalities give rise to a syndrome with asd features such as seen in fragile x. while there is likely a strong multi-genetic basis to asd dicicco-bloom et al.

these findings support a microbi- ome-gut-brain connection in asd and suggest that recon- stitution of beneficial microbes whether it be through pro- biotics bacteriotherapy with defined consortia or fecal microbiota transplantation may serve to improve symp- toms of asd by repairing an aberrant microbiota.at the time of writing there are little to no completed clinical studies that have examined the benefits of micro- biome reconstitution in asd.

thus given this heterogeneity research into the etiology of asd is increasingly being focused on subgroups of asd indi- viduals who share a defining group of characteristics such as children with regressive autism and gastrointestinal gi symptoms.many studies in the last several years reveal the centralrole of the gut microbiota in the post-natal development and maturation of the immune and endocrine systems with disruption of this important balance associated with many disease states occurring throughout host life.

.dysregulated metabolism of free amino acids faadysregulated metabolism of free amino acids faa has been observed in children with autism and pervasive devel- opmental disorder-not otherwise specified pdd-nos with fecal samples from children with asd containing the highest levels of total free amino acids de angelis et al.

glia 555 453- 462. doi.sandler r. h. finegold s. m. bolte e. r. buchanan c. p. max-well a. p. vaisanen m. l.... wexler h. m. 2000. short- term benefit from oral vancomycin treatment of regressive-onset autism.

annals of neurology 571 67-81. doi.wang l. christophersen c. t. sorich m. j. gerber j. p. ang- ley m. t.  conlon m. a.

digestive diseases and sciences 578 2096- 2102. doi.wang l. christophersen c. t. sorich m. j. gerber j. p. ang- ley m. t.  conlon m. a.

accessed 20 nov 2013.williams b. l. hornig m. buie t. bauman m. l. cho paik m. wick i.... lipkin w. i.

science 3366086 1262-1267. doi .nikolov r. n. bearss k. e. lettinga j. erickson c. rodowski m. aman m. g.... scahill l. 2009. gastrointestinal symp- toms in a sample of children with pervasive developmental dis- orders.

brain behavior and immunity 38c 1-12. doi.west p. r. amaral d. g. bais p. smith a. m. egnash l. a. ross m. e.... burrier r. e. 2014. metabolomics as a tool for discovery of biomarkers of autism spectrum disorder in the blood plasma of children.

