In aging polypharmacy may thus represent a determinant of gut microbiota composition with detrimental clinical consequences.Human gut microbiota composition which is relatively stable during the adult lifespan faces significant alter- ations with aging .

Correspondence and requests for materials should be addressed to A.T. email However the association of gut microbiota composition with multimorbidity and polypharmacy has not been investigated yet even if the current literature state of art supports the hypothesis that gut dysbiosis influences the pattern of aging and pathophysiology of some diseases.

For example Rogers and Aronoff showed that the gut microbiota composition of adult patients chronically taking a single drug is significantly different from that of subjects without pharmacological treatments and that the association of non-steroidal antinflammatory drugs NSAIDs with PPIs influences the gut microbiota in a different way than treatment with NSAIDs alone.

Consistently with our results few studies carried out in adult subjects without multimorbidity have underlined that PPIs  antidepressants and antipsychotics are the main drug classes able to induce modifications of gut microbiota composition alone.The mechanisms of drug-induced alterations in gut microbiota are only partly known.

Thus dysbiosis should be only considered a marker of poor health status and the effects of gut micro- biota composition on clinical outcomes should be better clarified in larger population-based studies.Surprisingly in the present study the gut microbiota composition of participants showed poor associa- tions with multimorbidity and frailty.

Thus it can be argued that the influence of polypharmacy on gut microbiome composition is in some way mediated by multimorbidity and frailtydisability.In this context further studies are needed to verify the hypothesis that frailty and multimorbidity are asso- ciated with alterations in gut microbiota composition.

Future observational and intervention studies should better define the association between geriatric domains and gut microbiota composition and address the complex relationship between gut microbiota and the physiopathology of aging.

OPENReceived 23 March 2017Accepted 14 August 2017 Published xx xx xxxxGut microbiota composition is associated with polypharmacy in elderly hospitalized patientsAndrea Ticinesi 12 Christian Milani 3 Fulvio Lauretani12 Antonio Nouvenne 12 Leonardo Mancabelli3 Gabriele Andrea Lugli3 Francesca Turroni3 Sabrina Duranti3 Marta Mangifesta3 Alice Viappiani4 Chiara Ferrario3 Marcello Maggio12 Marco Ventura3  Tiziana Meschi12Reduced biodiversity and increased representation of opportunistic pathogens are typical features of gut microbiota composition in aging.

The impact of gut microbiota biodiversity on mortality rehospitalizations and incident sepsis was also assessed after a 2-year follow-up using Cox regression analysis.

Conversely frailty and multimorbidity were not significantly associated with gut microbiota biodiversity.

