2014. thus besides the fact that reports on gut archaea fungi and eukaryotes are lagging studies such as these are a clear indication that these microbes together with eubacteria forms a very complex ecosystem in the gut and their functional role in human health and diseases needs to be evaluated thoroughly.studies conducted in indian population suggest compositional differences in gut microbiota and how it differs from the western population patil et al.

8214. doi diabetes in india has distinct genetic nutritional developmental and socio-economic aspects owing to the fact that changes in gut microbiota are associated with diabetes we employed semiconductor-based sequencing to characterize gut microbiota of diabetic subjects from this region.

2013 are found to be associated with the distinct pattern of gut microbiota in which certain otusspecies are present in different proportions.although studies on gut microbiota are largely dominated by eubacteria in recent years studies on gut-inhabiting archaea scanlan et al.

2016 efforts to define extents of perturbation in gut microbial communities of diabetic subjects from india will help us to decipher the association between gut microbial composition and diabetes.

considering the unique characteristics of indian diabetic subjects understanding their gut microbiota will be important to understand the possible role of gut microbiota in affecting these characteristics.

further the same study noted that this attribute was transmissible such that microbiota transplantation from obese donor to lean germ-free mice lead to the gain in body fat.additionally methanobrevibacter smithii directs polysaccharide utilization by gut inhabitants leading to the formation of large pools of scfas which is later used by m. smithii for methanogenesis in the gut with a consequent increase in host adiposity samuel and gordon 2006. thus methanobrevibacter smithii can be a therapeutic target to avoid obesity and associated complications such as diabetes samuel et al.

2007.based on the work we carried out and several other similar studies gut eukaryotes and fungi appear to be important components of the human gut.

in essence we are not demonstrating complete coverage of all microbial interactions in the gut but analyzing the interactions among microbes in the gut will help us understand how these communities develop or evolve in response to alteredphysiological andor metabolic state such as diabetes.

 1  2  suyog m. joshi 3  3 2 and 11 department of zoology savitribai phule pune university pune india 2 microbial culture collection-national centre for cell science pune india 3 diabetes unit kem hospital and research centre pune indiaedited bymike taylor university of auckland new zealandreviewed by nicola segata university of trento italy jeffrey david galleybaylor college of medicine usacorrespondence chittaranjan s. yajnik yogesh s. shouche saroj s. ghaskadbi specialty section this article was submitted to microbial symbiosesa section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 24 september 2016accepted 30 january 2017published 14 february 2017citation bhute ss suryavanshi mv joshi sm yajnik cs shouche ys and ghaskadbi ss 2017 gut microbial diversity assessment of indiantype-2-diabetics reveals alterations in eubacteria archaea and eukaryotes.

we suggest consolidated dysbiosis of eubacterial archaeal and eukaryotic components in the gut microbiota of newly diagnosed new-dms and long-standing diabetic subjects known-dms compared to healthy subjects ngts.

due to the inter-linked metabolic interactions among the eubacteria archaea and eukarya in the gut it may extend into other two domains leading to trans-domain dysbiosis in microbiota.

our results thus contribute to and expand the identification of biomarkers in diabetes.keywords diabetes gut microbiota eubacteria archaea eukarya amplicon sequencingintroductionthe eubacterial assemblage associated with the human body together with other microbes like archaea eukaryotes and fungi are referred to as microbiota.

trillions of these microbes that live in our distal gut are believed to be co-evolving with their hosts ley et al.

2008. within the gut microbes interact amongst themselves and their host together their metagenomes contain genes that act as a repertoire of metabolic functions which influence human health clemente et al.

2012. recent studies have revealed that the gut microbiota is subjected to variations in the host's diet turnbaugh et al.

