in addition just limiting the study to the permian period a completely herbivore diet has independently evolved in the bolosauridae reptilia pareiasauria parareptilia and among dinocephalia and anomodontia within the therapsida   .is there a possible relationship between the gut microbiota and symbiotic convergent evolution of herbivory as early as the first formation of structured ecosystems in the late paleozoic how far can the macroevolutionary influence of symbiotic microbes be extendedthe microbiota as a possible accelerated trigger of epigenetic and directional acquisition of phenotypic traitsa traditional and widely accepted view is that the specific diet developed in vertebrates is one of the key factors structuring the composition of the gut microbiota e.g.

cell 165 1323-1331. bates j. m. mittge e. kuhlman j. baden k. n. cheesman s. e. and guillemin k. 2006. distinct signals from the microbiota promote different aspects of zebrafish gut differentiation.

rep. 517104. brown j. m. and hazen s. l. 2015. the gut microbial endocrine organ bacterially derived signals driving cardiometabolic diseases.

nature 449 811-818. fava f. lovegrove j. a. gitau r. jackson k. g. and tuohy k. m. 2006. the gut microbiota and lipid metabolism implications for human health and coronary heart disease.

24 777-787. collins s. m. surette m. and bercik p. 2012. the interplay between the intestinal microbiota and the brain.

62 479-497. mackie r. i. rycyk m. ruemmler r. l. aminov r. i. and wikelski m. 2004. biochemical and microbiological evidence for fermentative digestion in free- living land iguanas conolophus pallidus and marine iguanas amblyrhynchus cristatus on the galapagos archipelago.

77 127-138. mcfall-ngai m. hadfield m. g. bosch t. c. carey h. v. domazet-loso t. douglas a. e. et al.

372 42-49. phillips c. d. phelan g. dowd s. e. mcdonough m. m. ferguson a. w. delton hanson j. et al.

 121 museum fur naturkunde leibniz-institut fur evolutions- und biodiversitatsforschung berlin germany 2 dipartimento di scienze della terra sapienza universita di roma rome italyedited byandrea masotti bambino gesu ospedale pediatricoirccs italyreviewed bykirstin sara brink university of british columbiacanada sergio uzzauuniversita di sassari italycorrespondence marco romano specialty section this article was submitted to systems microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 12 february 2017accepted 06 april 2017published 20 april 2017citation romano m 2017 gut microbiota as a trigger of accelerated directional adaptive evolution acquisitionof herbivory in the context of extracellular vesicles micrornas and inter-kingdom crosstalk.front.

8721. doi according to a traditional view the specific diet in vertebrates is one of the key factors structuring the composition of the gut microbiota.

the new hypothesis is that the gut microbiota could play a great role in the macroevolutionary dynamics of herbivorous vertebrates causing directly through host-microbiota dialog of epigenetic nature i.e.

the new interpretation could also represent a key factor in understanding the convergent evolution of analogous body structures in very distant lineages.keywords gut microbiota herbivory hologenome inter-kingdom crosstalk extracellular vesicles micrornasyoung man says 'you are what you eat' - eat welldancing with the moonlit knight selling england by the pound genesis 1973introductionfor a long time microbes associated with eukaryotic organisms were considered in a reductionist way as negative factors able to cause serious disease.

gut microbiota are able to extract nutrients useful to the host but otherwise not usable symbiotic microbes are beneficial to the host's protection preventing the invasion by pathogens through active stimulation of the immune system and can promote the differentiation of tissues  .

next- generation sequencing technologies the taxonomic richness of gut microbiota has been studied in detail not just in humans but also in several group of vertebrates from iguanas e.g.

therefore the non-random association between taxonomic composition in the community of microbes and the type of diet seems very strong evidence in support of a coevolution between host and gut microbiota.

