as for ibd many studies have reported that the composition of microbiota in ibd is altered compared with that in healthy subjects -.

this may be caused by the increased number of mucolytic bacteria such as runinococcus gnavas and ruminococcus torques in ibd patients .the production of metabolites affected by the disruptionof gut microbiota is associated with the pathogenesis of ibd.

collectively these data strongly indicate that the alteration of gut microbiota is associated with the pathogenesis of ibd.the effects of medication for ibd on gut microbiotamedication for ibd also affects the composition of gut microbiota.

therefore fmt has recently attracted atten- tion as a new therapeutic strategy in ibd.the number of clinical studies on the efficacy and safety of fmt for ibd has increased and the evidence for the effect of fmt on ibd has accumulated accordingly.

httpsdoi.org10.1007s12328-017-0813-5gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseaseatsushi nishida1  ryo inoue2  osamu inatomi1  shigeki bamba1  yuji naito3  akira andoh1received 18 december 2017  accepted 20 december 2017  published online 29 december 2017c japanese society of gastroenterology 2017abstractinflammatory bowel disease ibd including ulcerative colitis and crohn's disease is a chronic and relapsing inflammatory disorder of the intestine.

although its incidence is increasing globally the precise etiology remains unclear and a cure for ibd has yet to be discovered.

the most accepted hypothesis of ibd pathogenesis is that complex interactions between genetics environmental factors and the host immune system lead to aberrant immune responses and chronic intestinal inflammation.

recent advances in next-generation sequencing technology have identified alteration of the composition and function of the gut microbiota which is referred to as dysbiosis in ibd.

clinical and experimental data suggest dysbiosis may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of ibd.

this review is focused on the physiological function of the gut microbiota and the associa- tion between the gut microbiota and pathogenesis in ibd.

in addition we review the therapeutic options for manipulating the altered gut microbiota such as probiotics and fecal microbiota transplantation.keywords inflammatory bowel disease  microbiota  dysbiosis  fecal microbiota transplantationintroductioncrohn's disease cd and ulcerative colitis uc which are known as inflammatory bowel diseases ibd are chronic and relapsing inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract  .

over 1 million residents in the usa and 2.5 mil- lion in europe are estimated to be suffering from ibd .

although ibd is a global disease with the highest prevalence in western countries newly industrialized countries in asia the middle east africa and south america have witnessed a rapid increase in its incidence .

genome-wide associa- tion studies have identified 200 ibd associated-susceptiblegenes some of which are known to be involved or implicated in mediating host responses to gut microbiota .

this has evoked the possibility that gut microbiota is implicated in the pathogenesis of ibd  .the human gut harbors 100 trillion different microbial organisms including bacteria viruses fungi and proto- zoa which constitute the microbiota also referred to as the microbial flora .

