research activity on gut microbiota by japanese scientists is expect- ed to continue to facilitate further development of this field.referencesatarashi k tanoue t oshima k suda w nagano y nishikawa h fukuda s saito t narushima s hase k kim s fritz jv wilmes p ueha s matsushima k ohno h olle b sakaguchi s taniguchi t morita h hattori m honda k treg induction by a rationally selected mixture of clostridia strains from the human microbiota.

microorganisms were more frequently detect- ed in mln-2 samples in the control group than in the synbiotics group 10 of 18 vs. 3 of 18 p  0.035. in ad- dition bacteremia detected 1 day after surgery using rt-qpcr was more prevalent in the control group than in the synbiotics group 12 of 21 vs. 4 of 21 p  0.025. neutrophil counts on postoperative days 1 2 and 7 after surgery were all significantly higher in the control group than in the synbiotics group.

plos one 20105e9085.nagpal r ogata k tsuji h matsuda k taka- hashi t nomoto k kawashima k nagata s yamashiro y differences in intestinal micro- biota of infants between vaginal delivery and c-section in particular alpha-toxigenic and enterotoxigenic c. perfringens.

4th annual meeting of the society of japan development origins of health and disease tokyo august 2015.nagpal r ogata k tsuji h matsuda k taka- hashi t nomoto k kawashima k nagata s yamashiro y differences in intestinal micro- biota of infants between vaginal delivery and c-section in particular alpha-toxigenic and enterotoxigenic c. perfringens.

nature 2013504446-450.atarashi k tanoue t ando m kamada n nagano y narushima s suda w imaoka a setoyama h nagamori t ishikawa e shima t hara t kado s jinnohara t ohno h kondo t toyooka k watanabe e yokoya- ma s tokoro s mori h noguchi y morita h ivanov ii sugiyama t nunez g camp jg hattori m umesaki y honda k th17 cell induction by adhesion of microbes to in-testinal epithelial cells.

cell 2015163367-380.matsuda k tsuji h asahara t matsumoto k takada t nomoto k establishment of an analytical system for the human fecal micro- biota based on reverse transcription-quanti- tative pcr targeting of multicopy rrna mol- ecules.

sys- temic low-grade inflammation is closely linked to meta- bolic disorders 16 to which dysbiosis of gut microbiota with lipopolysaccharide-containing microbiota contrib- utes 17 such low-grade inflammation also plays a sub- stantial role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseas- es including ischemic stroke 18. dr. k. yamashiro de- partment of neurology juntendo university tokyo and his group 9 showed for the first time the presence of gut dysbiosis with altered organic acid production in pa- tients with ischemic stroke.we analyzed the composition of the fecal gut micro- biota and the concentrations of fecal organic acids in 41 ischemic stroke patients and 40 control subjects via 16s and 23s rrna-targeted qrt-pcr and high-performance liquid chromatography analyses respectively.

review articleann nutr metab 201771242-246 doi received september 15 2017accepted september 16 2017published online november 14 2017gut microbiota in health and diseaseyuichiro yamashiroprobiotics research laboratory juntendo university graduate school of medicine tokyo japankeywordsgut microbiota  probiotics  gut dysbiosis  bacteremia  bacterial translocationabstractintestinal regulatory t treg cells are critical to maintaining immune tolerance to dietary antigens and gut microbiota.

this study group also demonstrated these findings in the context of dysbiosis-related deteriora- tions of the gut environment 9. one of the excellent papers of prof. y. yokoyama's group 5 is summarized below.the impact of perioperative synbiotics on bacterial translocation and subsequent bacteremia after esopha- gectomy is unclear.

11. dr. junko sato department of metabolism  endocrinology jun- tendo university tokyo and her group 7 recently pro- vided the first report demonstrating a high prevalence of bacteremia in patients with type 2 diabetes.mounting evidence indicates that the gut microbiota is an important modifier of obesity and diabetes.

nobuyuki sudo department of psychosomatic medicine kyushu university school of medical sci- ence fukuoka and his group 19 are well-known for their research on the brain-gut axis and one of their papers was published in neurogastroenterology and motility .conclusionthe human gut microbiota forms a complex ecological community that influences normal physiology and sus- ceptibility to disease through its collective metabolic and immunological activities and host interactions.

stroke 2008392226-2230.nishino r mikami k takahashi h et al commensal microbiota modulate murine be- haviors in a strictly contamination-free envi- ronment confirmed by culture based methods.

the high rate of gut bacteria in the circula- tion suggests translocation of bacteria from the gut to the bloodstream.dysbiosis in infants born by cesarean-sectioninfants born vaginally acquire bacterial communities that resemble the vaginal microbiota of their mothers while those delivered by cesarean c-section acquire communities similar to the microbiota found on the sur- face of the skin of their mothers and those of the hospital staff.

honda and his group have found that commensal micro- biota capable of metabolizing butyrate induces the differen- tiation of colonic treg cells.

in a separate work prof. y. yo- koyama and his group used a novel culture-independent analytical method the yakult intestinal flora-scan for de- tection of bacteria in the bloodstream.

