reviewgut microbiota fermentation of marine polysaccharides and its effects on intestinal ecology an overviewqingsen shang hao jiang chao cai jiejie hao guoyun li guangli yua key laboratory of marine drugs of ministry of education and shandong provincial key laboratory of glycoscience and glycotechnology school of medicine and pharmacy ocean university of china qingdao 266003 chinab laboratory for marine drugs and bioproducts qingdao national laboratory for marine science and technology qingdao 266003 chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywordsmarine polysaccharides gut microbiota fermentationintestinal ecologya b s t r a c t the gut microbiota that resides in the mammalian intestine plays a critical role in host health nutrition me- tabolic and immune homeostasis.

collec- tively these in vitro studies provide the basis for understanding the impacts of alginate as a dietary fiber on gut ecology.to better understand the effect of alginate on the composition of gut microbiota and intestinal ecology fed rats with alginate and investigated the composition of cecal microbiota using polymerase chain reaction pcr-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis dgge a culture-independent method for analyzing the microbiota.

here in this review to provide an overlook of current advances and facilitate future studies in this field we describe and summarize up-to-date findings on how marine polysaccharides are metabolized by gut microbiota and what effects these polysaccharides have on intestinal ecology.introductionthe human gut is home to tens of trillions of microorganisms col- lectively termed as gut microbiota or gut microbiome nicholson et al.

today as metagenomics is deli- vering huge amounts of sequencing data at a lower cost our under- standing of gut microbiota is progressing at a faster pace and emerging evidence supports a pivotal role of gut microbiota in host health nu- trition disease metabolic and immune homeostasis   .

as such the japanese microbiota captures the ability to degrade porphyran and agarose as compared to the gut microbiota from north american individuals.

for example studied the effect of chitin on the gut microbiota of atlantic salmon salmo salar l.. supplementation of chitin in the diet changed the structure of intestinal microbiota and increased the abundance of staphylococcus spp.

thus as a nutraceutical supple- ment dietary ks could potentially modulate the gut microbiota and change intestinal ecology.recently we studied the effect of ks on the gut microbiota of kunming mice using high-throughput sequencing  .

on the other hand since only specific species of bacteria from the gut microbiota could process these polysaccharides it is therefore inevitable that these polysaccharides would change and re- shape the structure of the gut microbiota.

in most cases the fecal microbiota was used as a representative of the gut microbiota.

as there is a boom in gut microbiota research future studies in- vestigating the impact of marine polysaccharide on gut microbiota should follow established protocol and pay enough attention to factors that could potentially affect the experimental results.

the structure-dependent effect of a particular polysaccharide on gut microbiota highlights the importance of the use of chemically defined glycans in the gut microbiota research.

dietary polysaccharides that reach the distal gut are fermented by gut microbiota and thus exert a fundamental impact on intestinal ecology.

2014. gut microbiota represents a collection of mutualists and sym- bionts that is shaped by competition selection and evolution .

recently fueled by next-generation high-throughput sequencing technologies and associated developments in big-data bioinformatics we have uncovered strong associations and even causal relationships between gut microbiota and a broad spectrum of diseases including metabolic syndrome  colorectal cancer  cardiovascular disease  inflammatory bowel disease   obesity  type 1  and type 2 diabetes  parkinson's disease  alzheimer's disease  non- alcoholic fatty liver disease  and hiv disease .

in thislight gut microbiota is now pictured as a microbial organ within the gastrointestinal tract which actively participates in diverse physiolo- gical processes of the host .carbohydrates and polysaccharides comprise a significant fraction of our daily diet .

