2003 ckdpatients all stages27 b. longumsingle-center observational trial 6 monthsslowing of the progression of kidney diseaseranganathan et al.2009 ranganathan et al.2010 ckd stage 3-4ckd stage 3-413 l. acidophilus s. thermophilus and b. longum kb31 kb27 kb3546 l. acidophilus kb31 s. thermophilus kb27 and b. longum kb35single-center prospective randomized double-blind cross-over placebo-controlled trialmulticenter prospective randomized double-blind cross-over placebo-controlled trial6 months bun uric acid concentration quality of life6 months bun quality of lifemiranda alatriste et al.

in this review we discuss the con- sequences of gut microbiome dysbiosis in the context of ckd discuss the consequences of gut dysbiosis and high- light some of the recent interventions targeting the gut microbiome for therapeutic purposes.keywords microbiome .

gut microbiome dysbiosis resulted from alteration of composition and func- tion of the gut microbiome and disruption of gut barrier func- tion is commonly seen in patients with chronic kidney disease ckd.

casei shirota and b.breve yakult galacto-oligosaccharidesrandomized placebo-controlled6 weekstotal and ldl cholesterolplasma il-6 il-8 and hs-crp total antioxidant capacity t-aocsingle-center observational trial 2 weeks p-cresol normalization ofbowel habitscruz-mora j et al.2014 viramontes-horner et al.

this study did not investigate in- flammatory biomarkers or gut microbiome.in another study including 40 hd patients sirich et al.

in spite of reasonable number of patients the study had short duration and only focused in lipid profile and inflammatory markers.synbiotic interventionamong six synbiotic studies comprising prebiotics plus probiotics formulation between the years 2011 and 2016 threetable 1therapeutic interventions targeting gut microbiome1996 takayama et al.

the expansion of these spe- cies increases the degradation of nitrogen compounds in wors- en uremic state  .in a series of studies using ckd rats and human colonocytes vaziri et al.

2014 ckd stage 3-430 l. casei shirotasingle-center placebo-controlled randomized trialprospective single-blind crossover crfsingle center non-randomized open-label phase iiisingle-center double-blind placebo-controlled randomized2 months urea by 111 month fecal bacterial mass and fecal nitrogen content  serum urea nitrogen1 month serum p-cresyl sulfate levels and generation rates6 weeks unbound level of isxie et al.

2012 ckd stage 3-424 l. casei shirota  probioticprospective observation placebo-controlled randomized trial6 monthsimprove gastrointestinal symptoms slowing of progression of kidney diseaseguida et al.

2013832308-15. one of the earliest studies to look at gut microbiome in ckd as many as 190 microbial operational taxonomic units differed significantly in abundance when the gut microbiome of esrd patients.hida m aiba y sawamura s suzuki n satoh t. inhibition of the accumulation of uremic toxins in the blood and their precursors in the feces after oral administration of lebenin a lactic acid bacteria preparation to uremic patients undergoing hemodialysis.

curr opin nephrol hypertens 2012. this study elegantly demon- strated the alteration of barrier function and gut microbiota in ckd it showed a link between gut dysbiosis and inflammation.lin cj wu cj pan cf chen yc sun fj chen hh.

used a mouse model of ckd displaying intestinal dysbiosis of proteobacterial blooms endotoxemia and systemic inflam- mation to demonstrate causation between dysbiosis of gut microbiome and systemic inflammation in ckd.

here we review evidence from recent clinical studies connecting dysbiosis to various diseases with an emphasis on ckd cvd and hypertension.both ckd and esrd are associated with altered gut microbiome  .

more recently andersen et al.

koren et al.

