The results from this study could be able to build a base for future interventional studies which may therapeutically influence the gut microbiome.The objective of the present study was a to identify the extent to which gut microbiota in AN differs in comparison to other BMI groups and athletes by using 16S sequencing of stool samples and b to inves- tigate the associations between gut microbiota community structures anthropometric measurements total body fat and fat distribution as well as depression scales serum lipids and C-reactive protein CRP.We hypothesized that we would find distinctive features of the gut microbiota in AN patients which depend on changes in anthropo- metric measurements body fat lipids and C-reactive protein in this group in comparison to other BMI groups and athletes.

Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 10838 16050-16055.Caporaso J. G. Kuczynski J. Stombaugh J. Bittinger K. Bushman F. D. Costello E. K. ... Gordon J. I.

Principles of nutritional assessment Oxford Oxford University Press.Goodrich J. K. Waters J. L. Poole A. C. Sutter J. L. Koren O. Blekh- man R. ... Bell J. T. 2014.

Genome Biology 126 1.Slootmaker S. M. Schuit A. J. Chinapaw M. J. Seidell J. C.  Van Mechelen W. 2009.

Monitoring bacterial community of human gut microbiota reveals an increase in Lactobacillus in obese patients and methanogens in ano- rexic patients.

In conclusion these results point out profound perturbations of gut microbiota in AN.We found that AT displayed the most diverse gut microbiota while OB participants and AN patients displayed less diversity this confirmed results of previous studies which had shown that alpha diversity islower in OB individuals compared to NW individuals Goodrich et al.

Further interventional studies are needed to find out in more detail the impact of microbiota on BMI body fat and anthropometric measurements in AN.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSWe would like to thank Prof. Josef Smolle who was the initiator of the ESAN Study IC3490 as well as the laboratory team of theClinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics and the laboratory team of the Institute of Pathophysiology and Immunology for their assistance.CONFLICT OF INTERESTAll authors declare that they have no conflict of interest associated with this publication and there has been no financial support for this work which could have influenced its outcome.REFERENCESAckland T. R. Lohman T. G. Sundgot-Borgen J. Maughan R. J. MeyerN.

Psychoso- matic Medicine 779 969-981.Lahti L. Salonen A. Kekkonen R. A. Salojarvi J. Jalanka-Tuovinen J. Palva A.

PLoS One 1012 e0145274.MuEURller W. Horn M. FuEURrhapter-Rieger A. Kainz P. KroEURpfl J. M. Maughan R. J.  Ahammer H. 2013.

Gut Microbes 62 131-136.Park A. Collins J. Blennerhassett P. Ghia J. Verdu E. Bercik P.  Collins S. 2013.

