at the cutting edgeneuroendocrinology doi 10.1159000484526gut microbiota and host metabolism what relationshipreceived august 23 2017accepted after revision october 21 2017published online october 24 2017gilles mithieuxinstitut national de la sante et de la recherche medicale u1213 lyon universite lyon 1 villeurbanne and universite de lyon lyon francekeywordsobesity  metabolic control  intestinal mucosa  gut microbiota  dietary intervention  soluble fibers  short-chain fatty acids  intestinal gluconeogenesisabstracta large number of genomic studies have reported associa- tions between the gut microbiota composition and meta- bolic diseases such as obesity or type 2 diabetes.

thus a huge number of studies have reported various types of association between the microbiota composition in health and metabolic diseasesail c 2017 s. karger ag baselgilles mithieuxumr inserm u855 faculty of medicine laennec lyon-east 7-11 rue guillaume paradinfr-69372 lyon cedex 08 france e-mail as obesity or type 2 diabetes either in rodents 1-3 or in humans 4-7. the growing interest in the influence of intestinal microbiota on diseases has now expanded to non-metabolic illnesses such as intestinal or mental dis- orders 8 disorders of the immune system 9 or neu- rodegenerative disorders such as alzheimer disease or multiple sclerosis 10.in the field of metabolic diseases obesity and deregu- lated glucose control has been associated with an altered especially poorly diversified gut microbiota which led to the concept of dysbiosis whereas leanness and meta- bolic health has been associated with a higher gut micro- bial diversity 6 11. accordingly dietary interventions assumed to favor metabolic health i.e.

even a complete exchange of the gut mi- crobiota from jackson to taconic farm and vice-versa after elimination of the original microbiota with antibiot- ics treatment was without effect mice from jackson col- onized with the microbiota of taconic farm continued to partially resist to diet-induced obesity compared with mice from taconic farm colonized with the microbiota from jackson 15. these data disagreed with the concept that the gut microbiota per se could importantly influ- ence the development of obesity in mice.another striking study was performed in 57 obese pa- tients with altered glucose control featured from various parameters.

particularly their gastrointesti- nal nervous and immune systems are very immature and accordingly conventionalization partially corrects these defects 17 18. more importantly the gut barrier per- meability is markedly altered in germ-free mice which makes their intestine leaky and especially permeable to a variety of compounds such as inflammatory lipopolysac- charides 19. this might explain their proneness to al- terations in energy homeostasis or metabolic control when they are colonized with dysbiotic microbiota.these points have been emphasized in an elegant re- cent study in which dysbiotic microbiota from previous- ly obese mice were transferred in mice treated by antibi- otics to deplete gut microbiota a treatment which did not alter intestinal permeability 20. in this case antibiotic- treated colonized mice did not develop obesity or deregu- lated glucose control.

akkermansia abundance is decreased in obese mice and restored to normal upon fiber feeding 2. giv- en by gavage to diet-induced obese mice akkermansia corrects deregulated glucose control notably decreasing the circulating levels of inflammatory lipopolysaccha- rides and improving the gut barrier 2. importantly a protein that binds toll-like receptor 2 and is able to re- store normal gut permeability and to recapitulate partly the benefits conferred by the living bacteria was identified in the membrane of the bacterium thus providing a puta- tive mechanistic insight into the phenomenon 21.a second example is prevotella copri a bacterium pro- liferating in human subjects that positively respond to prebiotic feeding in terms of glucose control 13. pre- votella given by gavage in mice contributes to the im- provements in glucose control in the presence of dietary fiber.

but in exceptional pathologi- cal situations in which the gut barrier permeability is im-portantly impaired and in which high molecular weight compounds such as lps or even bacteria are susceptible to be translocated the bacteria are separated from the gut mucosa by the mucus layer thickness see for example 2. this makes that metabolites or low-molecular-weight compounds most likely represent the only communica- tion links between the bacteria and the host mucosal functions and then the host metabolism in physiological situations.

there- fore one can hope in the near future to learn a lot from metabolomics of bacterial products associated with well- conducted mechanistic approaches.acknowledgementsthe author is grateful to his collaborators and colleagues from his laboratory and elsewhere for so many essential discussions and expert works in relation with the gut microbiota which taught him so much about the field.disclosure statementthe author has no conflict of interest to disclose relating to this paper.referencesturnbaugh pj backhed f fulton l gordon ji diet-induced obesity is linked to marked but reversible alterations in the mouse distal gut microbiome.

a crucial link by which gut bacteria communicate with the host mucosa is based on metabolites or low-molecular-weight compounds.

based on protein supplementation 5 11 or on supplementation in soluble dietary fibers were shown to increase intestinal micro- biota diversity in obese people 5 12 13. these studies initiated the widespread idea that gut microbiota dysbio- sis could have a causal role in determining the evolution toward obesity and deregulated glucose metabolism and further type 2 diabetes 4-7 11. however that dietary habits and food quality have the capacity to influence metabolic health is a long-known observation 14. more- over that metabolic diseases alter host metabolism is a tautology.

1. relationships between gut microbiota and host metabolism established solid line and hypothetical dashed line.nies.

they were studied for the same metabolic pa- rameters before and after the treatment and next 8 weeks after the treatment which was a time where their micro- biota was still dramatically modified compared with the situation before the treatment 15. however no change in any of the metabolic parameters was evidenced either after the antibiotic treatment or after the 8-week follow- up suggesting again that the gut microbiota does not ex- hibit the capacity to markedly influence the host metabo- lism 16.it must be mentioned that in a high number of exper- imental studies an obesity-prone phenotype could be successfully conferred on germ-free mice upon transfer- ring the microbiota from obese mice see for example 1. however one must bear in mind that germ-free mice are far from constituting a satisfactory control mouse model.

therefore they gainweight even after colonization by a gut microbiota from lean mice.

this strongly suggests that dysbiotic intestinal microbiota may be adaptive and confer protection against deregulations in metabolic con- trol instead of being deleterious and causal in the disease 20.therefore from the viewpoint of the author the caus- al role of intestinal microbiota in the deregulation of en- ergy homeostasis in metabolic diseases is not established.benefits provided by specific bacteriaif experiments of changing the whole gut microbiota have not clearly supported a causal role of the whole mi- crobiota in metabolic control it remains that the transfer of specific bacteria species could have a significant impact in the regulation of energy homeostasis.

it was shown elsewhere that succinate is a major bacterial metabolite produced in response to fiber feeding in mice and provides metabolic benefits via its role as a substrate of intestinal gluconeogenesis ign 22. ign indeed is a gut function initiating various metabolic ben- efits by generating a gut-brain nervous signal that posi- tively interferes in energy homeostasis and glucose con- trol 23. finally prevotella was shown to act positively in glucose control both by activating ign as a substrate but also via succinate-independent mechanisms which re- main to be deciphered 13 22.peripheral to the field of energy homeostasis a rele- vant study highlighted the beneficial role of specific bac- teria in the deregulated comportment of the offspring of pregnant mice subject to maternal immune activation mia.

in the offspring mia promotes dysbiosis and dis- orders in gut function altered permeability associated with features of neurodevelopmental disorders evoking autism spectrum disorder in humans.

