freeman and colleaguesprovided the first direct evidence for an axon-initiated death pathway showing that genetic ablation of sterile alpha armadillo repeat and tir domain protein 1 sarm1 in flies and mice potently protects against wallerian degeneration 5. wlds expression 6-8 or knocking out sarm1 910 protects against axon degeneration in several neurological disorders modeled in mice demonstrating that wallerian degeneration and the axon degenerative pathway in these diseases share a common mechanism.how wlds protects against axon degeneration has been a long-standing question in the field.

attempt to identify the most commonly shared bgc family in the human microbiome by mining the nih human microbiome project phase i dataset a large study profiling the 'healthy' human-gut microbiome in americans and then subsequently determining the function of this bgc family .

the bgc family identified consists of 37 similar clusters shared among 90 of individuals in the cohort that are also rarely present in environmental bacterial isolates suggesting a possible direct role for the bgc products in human physiology.however the gut metagenome is massively complex and elucidating fine- grained interactions with the host in a sea of trillions of bacteria is far from easy.for 14 members of said family the resulting product was reconstructed by either directly cloning from native hosts or synthesizing the entire bgc de novo and transforming the construct into either escherichia coli or bacillus subtilis.

presents data supporting a new model for axon degeneration 3.insights into the mechanism of axon degeneration have been obtained from in vitro and in vivo experimental models of this process namely the severing of axons from their cell bodies axotomy resulting in wallerian degeneration.

based onthe nad depletion model nmnat2 loss is thought to trigger axon degeneration 13. indeed depletion of nmnat2 causes wallerian degeneration in neurons that can be rescued by wlds 1314. consistent with the notion thatit is the nmnat activity of wlds that is critical for its function a cytoplasmic variant of nmnat1 cytnmnat1 exhibits protection against wallerian degeneration that is comparable to wlds 15. in addition milbrandt and colleagues recently demonstrated that activation of sarm1 leads to the rapiddegradation of nad 16 which has been proposed to hasten axonal degradation although how sarm1 depletes nad is still unclear.

available at ..axon degeneration too much nmn is actually badmichael s. cohen program in chemical biology neuroscience graduate program and department of physiology and pharmacology oregon health  science university portland oregon 97210 usacorrespondence the mechanism of axon degeneration is incompletely understood.

a recent study demonstrates that transgenic expression of bacterial nicotinamide adenine mononucleotide nmn in zebrafish and mice which decreases nmn levels by converting it to namn protects against axon degeneration.axon degeneration is a major contributor to the pathology of several neurological disorders including alzheimer'sdisease parkinson's disease traumatic axonal injury and chemotherapy- induced peripheral neuropathy 12.genetic studies support the notion that preserving axon integrity and functionis a viable therapeutic strategy for many of these neurological disorders 12.understanding the mechanism of axon degeneration is of course crucial for this endeavor.

the fortuitous discovery of the slow wallerian degeneration wlds mouse mutant in which severed axons could survive for long periods of time weeks versustwo days 4 suggested that axon degeneration was not a passive process but rather an active process initiated within axons.

liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to identify new peaks that show up in the bgc product--7 out of the 14 bgcs produced new peaks that corresponded to 32 unique compounds .with these compounds identified twofigure 1. microbial bgc-derived secondary metabolites modulate host proteases.a biosynthetic gene cluster discovered to be present in 90 of healthy individuals non-ribosomally encodes a natural product that inhibits host proteases and modulates host functions.important questions remained are these compounds produced in the native host bacteria which of these compounds have activities that interact with hostone million predicted bgcs a substantial fraction of which are found in the human microbiome .

a class of antibiotics in clinical trials was simultaneously discovered to be produced by a human microbiome-encoded bgc which suggests that understanding and subsequently engineering bgcs could yield highly effective new drug pipelines .

the discovery of a family of bgcs that are both present in the vast majority of healthy human adults and also generally unique to humans suggests that the resulting product from this bgc plays a direct role in signaling to the host.

however the discovery of a unary bgc family present across healthy individuals required a massive amount of data mining coupled with complex experimental validation.the groundbreaking methods used by fischbach's group to analyze bgcs present across a healthy human cohort are necessary to prove their existence the next step is to understand their role.

long reads and methods to assemble them that span the entire bgc represent a potential leap forward .to understand the full functional landscape of bgcs perturbing and engineering minimal communities of microbes so called 'toy' microbiomes in model organisms will help reduce the complexity involved with the human microbiome and make it possible to understand the complete metagenome metatranscriptome metaproteome and metabolome of closed systems.

together these results support the hypothesis that wlds cytnmnat1 protects against wallerian degeneration by functionally substituting for axonal nmnat2 and that wldsr310 current biology 27 r294-r317 april 24 2017 a 2017 elsevier ltd.

a.d.k.the human gut metagenome was recently discovered to encode vast collections of biosynthetic gene clusters with diverse chemical potential almost none of which are yet functionally validated.

