A comprehensive examination of the human microbiome with regard to CCM burden and ancillary MEKK3-KLF24 activators is vital to understand CCM disease patho- genesis in humans.Although Tang et al3 previously showedthat endothelial MEKK3-KLF24 function increased CCM disease the absence of MEKK3-KLF24 targeting drugs limited the discovery's clinical impact.

2016 374151413-1423.Ghogawala Z Dziura J Butler WE et al.erebral cavernous malformations CCM have a prevalence of 0.4 to 0.6 but in familialCCM syndrome multiple family members can have numerous CCMs.12 CCM formation is genetically attributed to KRIT1 CCM2 and PDCD10 mutations.

Members of the Khan laboratory previously found that increased endothelial MEKK3-KLF24 function gives rise to CCMs however upstream MEKK3-KLF24 activators have yet to be identified.3 Patients with identical CCM syndrome genotypes demonstrate varied disease burden suggesting that environmental factors play a role in CCM disease progression.45In a recent publication in Nature Tang et el5 generated transgenic micewith endothelial-specific deletions of Krit1 KritECKO and Ccm2 Ccm2ECKO.

All mice with splenic abscess exhibited voluminous CCM disease indicating that hematogenous GNB spread was required to stimulate CCM formation.

MEKK3-deficient fibroblasts are unable to respond to LPS in vivo thus investigators concluded that LPS spurred CCM propagation through TLR4-MEKK3-KLF24 signal transduction.37To extend these finding to humans CCM disease burden and genetic variants of known inflammatory genes of 188 patients with the identical KRIT1 mutations KRITQ455X were analyzed.

This affirmed that TLR4 activation propa- gated CCM formation in both mice and humans.While these findings revealed the mechanism behind why Ccm2ECKO resistant mice developed severe CCM disease they failed to explain how a resistant subgroup arose in the first place.

These genes encode part of the CCM complex a heterotrimeric intracellular adaptor protein complex responsible for suppressing MEKK3-KLF24.

Initially vascular malformations were observed throughout both lineages after postpartum day 6 P6 however following a vivarium change 2 subgroups arose susceptible mice that expressed expected CCM formation and resistant mice thatliterature has not demonstrated significant differences in outcomes.

Resistant subgroups were further inbred and a few resistant mice sporadically developed extensive CCM disease.

This was supported when GNB cell-membrane-derived lipopolysaccharide LPS injections in Ccm2ECKO resistant mice also led to substantial CCM devel- opment.

