laura q. rogers 1 school of medicine university of alabama at birmingham birmingham al usa2 center for clinical and translational science university of alabama at birmingham birmingham al usa3 department of nutrition sciences university of alabama at birmingham webb 222 1720 2nd avenue south birmingham al 35294-3360 usa4 department of biostatistics university of alabama at birmingham birmingham al usa5 department of microbiology university of alabama at birmingham birmingham al usa6 department of cell developmental and integrative biology university of alabama at birmingham birmingham al usaresults increased fatigue interference in bcs was associated with increased mean within-sample shannon diversity organ- ism richness and evenness p  0.009. weighted unifrac anal- ysis shifts in taxa relative abundance revealed significant dif- ferences in between-sample beta diversity for changes in fa- tigue interference p  0.01 and anxiety p  0.022 with a trend observed for fatigue intensity and sleep dysfunction p  0.1. unweighted unifrac analysis shifts in taxa types found significant beta diversity differences for cardiorespiratory fitness p  0.026. prior to false discovery correction fdr changes in fitness fatigue anxiety and sleep dysfunction were associated with the frequency of certain gut bacteria genera e.g.

increased fatigue interference compared with decreasedno change was associated with increased mean - standard deviation sd shannon diversity 1.096 - 0.894 vs. -0.581 - 0.699 p  0.005. group dataexhibiting increasedno change in depression scores compared with decreases were not significantly associated with changes in mean shannon diversity although a trend toward signifi- cance was observed 0.863 - 0.878 vs. -0.347 - 1.152 p  0.070. changes in anxiety cardiorespiratory fitness fa- tigue intensity and sleep dysfunction were not statistically associated with changes in mean shannon diversity.

additionally we found that the gut microbial composition was significantly associated with changes in anxiety fatigue interference and cardiorespiratory fitness and a trend was detected for changes in fatigue intensity and sleep dysfunction.

therefore our results support potential relationships between the gut microbiota diversity in post-primary treatment bcs and psychosocial and cardiorespiratory fitness outcomes.to our knowledge this is the first study to examine the potential associations between prospective changes in gut mi- crobiota and alterations in psychosocial outcomes and cardio- respiratory fitness among cancer survivors of any type.

gastric bypass or bowel resection0 0.0dcis ductal carcinoma in situa one participant did not report menopausal statusb higher scores for anxiety depression fatigue and sleep dysfunction indicate greater disturbancesc anxiety and depression 14-item hospital anxiety and depression scale 0-21 scale for eachd fatigue fatigue symptom inventory 1-10 scalee sleep dysfunction pittsburgh sleep quality index 0-21 scalethe latest time point suggesting changes in specific taxa present.

to evaluate the relationship between changes in within-sample alpha diversities and changes in psychosocial and fitness outcomes t test was used to compare the mean change in alpha diversity from baseline to month 3 for each dichoto- mized outcome wilcoxon rank-sum test was used when the assumptions of t test may not hold.

doi 10.1007s00520-016-3568-5gut microbiota composition associated with alterations in cardiorespiratory fitness and psychosocial outcomes among breast cancer survivorsjesseca a. paulsen1  travis s. ptacek2  stephen j. carter3  nianjun liu4 ranjit kumar2  lakeshia hyndman1  elliot j. lefkowitz 25  casey d. morrow6 laura q. rogers3received 8 august 2016  accepted 27 december 2016  published online 7 january 2017 springer-verlag berlin heidelberg 2017abstractpurpose in this proof-of-concept pilot study our purpose was to determine correlations between gut microbiota composition and alterations in cardiorespiratory fitness and psychosocial outcomes among post-primary treatment breast cancer survivors bcs.

cardiorespiratory fitness fatigue anxiety depres- sion and sleep dysfunction were assessed at m0 and m3 via the submaximal treadmill test fatigue symptom inventory hospital anxiety and depression scale and pittsburgh sleep quality index respectively.electronic supplementary material the online version of this article doi5 contains supplementary material which is available to authorized users.

faecalibacterium prevotella bacteroides p  0.05.conclusions correlations may exist between alterations in gut microbiota composition and longitudinal changes in cardiore- spiratory fitness fatigue and anxiety in bcs.

to this end our group performed post hoc analyses on a subsam- ple n  12 of bcs participating in a larger physical activity trial to explore the associations between gut microbiota alpha diversity beta diversity and taxa frequencies and changes in anxiety depression fatigue sleep quality and cardiorespira- tory fitness over a 3-month period.

using unweighted unifrac clustering significant differences in beta diversity were found for cardiorespiratory fitness p  0.026 attable 1baseline participant characteristicssocial demographicsbreast cancer survivorsn  12the lowest baseline cardiorespiratory fitness and the largest mag- nitude improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness showed strik- ing microbial diversity clustering at the latest time point fig.

we show a significant association between longi- tudinal changes in fatigue interference and microbial diversity and a trend toward significance for association of changes in microbial diversity and depression.

to ensure that differences in beta diversity were due to the changes in fitness and psychosocial measures we performedthe same clustering analyses using microbiome samples fromage years mean - sd55 - 13 race no.

for statistical tests involv- ing beta diversity between-sample differences changes in psychosocial and fitness outcomes were divided into quartiles.

relationships between beta diversity indices of micro- bial composition and changes in psychosocial outcomes and cardiorespiratory fitness were visualized by principal coordi- nate analysis pcoa a measure not to be confused with prin- cipal component analysis .

