Additionally bacterial communities sampled along the GI tract of eutha- nized individuals revealed that similar to other vertebrates lizards have distinct bacterial communities in the stomach small intestine and hindgut with the hindgut communities bing most similar to faecal bacterial communities.

2017 elegantly test not only the influence of diet and the environment on the gut bacterial community composition of lizards but also whether captivity influ- ences shifts in gut bacterial community structure and whether viviparous lizards gain their gut microbiota via vertical transmission during birth.Gut microbial communities are likely comprised of a mix of transient environmentally acquired microbes com- mensal 'core' microbial taxa and a flexible pool of benefi- cial microbes which may confer a selective advantage to the host during periods of stress or rapid adaptation reviewed in Shapira 2016.

In a highly unexpected result the authors found that the gut bacterial communities of the two omnivorous species overlapped with that of commu- nities found on local plant material by 46 while the sin- gle herbivorous species shared only 26 of its gut bacterial community with plant communities.

Furthermore the herbivorous species shared significantly more bacterial taxa with bacterial samples of potential invertebrate prey items.

Kohl and colleagues found that captivity significantly altered both bacterial community membership and struc- ture in all three host species with bacterial phyla and gen- era present being altered by 23 and 25 respectively.

2017 were able to test the influence of diet and the environment on gut bacterial community structure.

In a comparison across three closely related host species in the family Liolaemidae they found that neither host sex nor season had a significant effect on bacterial community membership or structure but both diet e.g.

This is quite interesting as all three host species are syntopic therefore both omnivorous spe- cies should have the same potential prey availability implying a role of host genetics on structuring the gut bacterial community.

Bacte- ria found in local soil samples did not overlap signifi- cantly with bacterial taxa found in the gut of any host species.

While it has been suggested that exposure to local microbial species underlies the variation in gut bacterial community composition Kohl and colleagues have ele- gantly shown that this might be an oversimplification andc 2017 John Wiley  Sons LtdNEWS AND VIEWS PERSPECTIVE 973Fig.

