no human or animal studies have been done to this effect yet.intestinal barrier dysfunction and the microbiome in ald--as mentioned in the above nalfd section sibo is associated with dysbiosis and increased bt dysmotility and eventual endotoxemia and is widely prevalent in ald65 most of the evidence for sibo changes to the microbiome in ald are actually from animal model studies 70. mutlu et al studied chronic alcoholics with no cirrhosis and in colonic microbiome analysis found dysbiosis with a relative lower median abundance of bacteroidetes and higher abundance of proteobacteria71.

altered gut microbiota plays an important role in cirrhosis and its modulation to prevent disease progression changes and concomitantly bile acid physiology must be regulated or augmented to help prevent cirrhosis and its complications.keywordscirrhosis bile acids non-alcoholic steatohepatitis alcoholic liver disease dysbiosis microbiome firmicutes bacteroidetesintroductionour fundamental understanding of liver disease especially cirrhosis and its complications has changes dramatically over the last decade with the introduction of the culture- independent microbiome analysis.

to understand why certain patients remain stable while others decompensate despite control of inciting insults investigators have evaluated the gut microbiome and its associated changes in various stages and etiologies of liver disease to further explain this phenomenon.the intestinal microbiome itself is a complex composition of microorganisms that is well known to be implicated in cirrhosis and its complications 9. the metabolic neural pathway also known as the gut-liver-brain axis is a key player in cirrhosis and particularly in hepatic encephalopathy and this pathway is strongly regulated by the gut microbiome.

it is estimated that one third of the general us population has a fatty liver 20. upto 20-30  of nafld patients progress to nash21 and 30 of nash cases progress to cirrhosis 22. nafld and nash are commonly associated with the metabolic syndrome and as noted in previous studies is a pro-inflammatory state that is associated with higher levels of serum tnf-a il-6 and adipokines 2324. the linkages of the gut microbiome and changes with the microbiome with regards to the causation in nafldnash have been studied for a while now and the microbiome probably has a larger role in the causation than we know.pre-cirrhosis nafld microbiota changes--in order to understand why the microbiota is tied into nafld and nash we need to first understand how obesity and the metabolic syndrome affect the human microbiome.

the rate of decompensation for alcoholic cirrhosis is estimated to vary between 425 34 for nash cirrhosis 2 over 5 years despite minimal histological progression5 and with hepatitis c cirrhosis the cumulative probability for decompensation at 1 year is 567. continuing with the initial insult definitely leads to decompensation but studies have noted progression of disease from fibrosis to cirrhosis despite cessation of the insulting factor8.

the microbiome changes post cirrhosis in ald are similar to that seen in any other etiology for cirrhosis excepting that as cirrhosis onsets the ratio of bacteriodetes and firmicutes changes with the former reducing.

theacharya and bajajpage 7cdr similar to sibo has a direct relationship with the severity of liver disease and interestingly alcoholic cirrhosis has been noted to have the lowest cdr14.in understanding the role of ba's in cirrhosis kakiyama et al showed an increase in ba's in the serum of cirrhotics nash related and alcoholic and that there was a reduced quantity of bas entering the intestine from the liver as the severity of liver disease progressed.

the dysbiosis however remained stable for cirrhotics who had not decompensated indicating that the microbiome changes likely start after decompensation starts.prediction of admissions in cirrhosis--bajaj et al studied 278 cirrhotics all etiologies looking at diabetes mellitus as a factor for readmission.

further studies regarding alcoholics and ba variation with the microbiome areneeded.post-cirrhosis microbiome changes--once cirrhosis has set in the microbiome changes are often due to other mechanisms playing a larger role in promoting dysbiosis.

hepatitis c cirrhosis alcoholic cirrhosis and nash- related cirrhosis are the most common etiologies accounting for 53.5. with the changing demography andcorresponding author jasmohan s. bajaj md ms associate professor division of gastroenterology hepatology and nutrition virginia commonwealth university and mcguire va medical center 1201 broad rock boulevard richmond va 23249 usa disclosures none for both authorspublisher's disclaimer this is a pdf file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication.

this change is similar to what we see in nash cirrhosis with dm not taking insulin but does not confer an increased risk for readmissions as seen in a prospective study 83.hepatic encephalopathy--with decompensation of cirrhosis come multiple microbiome changes.

vls3mixture of multiple probiotic strains given daily has been proven to reduce the severity of cirrhosis and reduce he-relatedacharya and bajajpage 8admissions in cirrhotics of alcoholic nash and hepatitis c related etiologies though the exact microbiome changes were not noted in this study as well91 lactobacillus gg lgg use in a rct for cirrhotics who were diagnosed to have mhe showed those randomized to lgg reduced dysbiosis through an increased relative abundances of autochthonous taxa and a reduced relative abundances of potentially pathogenic taxa enterobacteriaceae and porphyromonadaceae along with reduction in endotoxemia92.spontaneous bacterial peritonitis sbp--bacterial translocation and sibo are integral to sbp onset in cirrhosis and hence dysbiosis plays an important role here.

to further aseess the interplay tetri et al in a multicenter randomized trial studied the effect of obeticholic acid ba derivative that activates fxr in nash patients and noted improvement in the histological features of nash based on the nafld activity score on liver biopsies56..alcoholic liver diseaseald spans the spectrum of cld from steatosis steatohepatitis liver fibrosis and eventually cirrhosis to more acute manifestations like acute alcoholic hepatitis.

kakiyama et al showed that chronic alcoholics had a higherconcentration of intestinal secondary bas and also primary bas with a higher secondary to primary ba ratio 73. the same study noted that there was an increase in bacteria from firmicutes and a reduction in phyla bacteroidetes on comparison to the non-ald cirrhosis subjects.

once cirrhosis sets in the microbial composition and function alterationsacharya and bajajpage 9worsen and contribute to complications such as he aclf and can be a predictor of readmissions and mortality.acknowledgmentsgrant support cx10076 va merit review and niddk dk089713 both to jsbreferencesscaglione s kliethermes s cao g et al.

