found no association between culturable gut bacteria and sensitization to food including milk egg peanut and hazelnut .pyrosequencing technology can identify approximately 80 more bacteria in the gut than those identified by conventional culture-based methods revealing the high complexity and diversity of the gut microbiota.recent evidence suggests that gut dysbiosis precedes fa and influences during early life affected the subsequent development of allergic disease .

found that an increased enterobacteriaceaebacteroidaceae ratio and low ruminococcaceae clostridia class abundance in the context of low gut microbiota richness in early infancy are associated with subsequent food sensitization suggesting that early gut dysbiosis contributes to subsequent development of fa .

here we present an overview on the potential role of gut microbiota as the target of intervention against food allergy.keywords cow's milk allergy diet immune tolerance dysbiosis probiotics short chain fatty acids butyrateintroductionduring the last several decades a changing patterns in the epidemiology of food allergy fa have been observed with an increased prevalence severity of clinical manifestations and risk of persistence until later ages .

the persistence of oral tolerance to peanut leap-on study showed that the absence of reactivity is maintained in these subjects .the gut microbiota could be defined as the trillions of microbes that collectively inhabit the gut lumen  and increasing evidence shows that altered patterns of microbial exposure dysbiosis early in life can lead to fa development by negatively influencing immune system development .

recent studies have reported the efficacy of intervention in the gut microbiota against fa.here we review the current understanding of the potential role of gut microbiota as potential target against fa.importance of microbial exposure for the development of immune toleranceimmune tolerance is the state of unresponsiveness of the immune system to substances or tissues that have the potential to induce an immune response.

furthermore the gut microbiota stimulates dcs in the peyer's patches to secrete transforming growthfactor tgf-b c-x-c motif chemokine ligand 13 and b-cell activating protein which leads to iga production and class switching .figure 1. immune tolerance network in the intestinal lumen interaction between microbiome and the gut immune system in early-life.

the immune tolerance network is mainly composed by the well-modulated activity of different components gut microbiota without gut microbiota it is not possible to achieve oral tolerance dietary factors mainly dietary peptides as amino acids are unable to drive immune tolerance epithelial cells dendritic cells and regulatory t cells.

these results strongly suggest that acting on gut microbiota composition and function can have long-term protective effects in children with fa.conclusionsour understanding of the role of gut microbiota in the development of fa continues to evolve.

modification in the gut microbiota composition dysbiosis early in life is a critical factor affecting the development of food allergy.

many environmental factors including caesarean delivery lack of breast milk drugs antiseptic agents and a low-fiberhigh-fat diet can induce gut microbiota dysbiosis and have been associated with the occurrence of food allergy.

short-chain fatty acids are crucial metabolic products of gut microbiota responsible for many protective effects against food allergy.

current evidence suggests that the gut microbiota and its metabolites mainly short chain fatty acids together with to exposure to dietary factors in early life critically influence the establishment of immune tolerance to food antigens  figure .

a low level of microbial diversity with reduced clostridiales and increased bacteroidales have been also observed in the gut microbiota of allergic patients .cross-sectional studies comparing the intestinal microbial composition of food allergies in healthy subjects have also been performed.

konya t. infant gut microbiota and food sensitization associations in the first year of life.clin.

alterations in the gut microbiotas of children with food sensitization in early life.pediatr.

