dmb treatment significantly reduced plasma tmao levels not only in mice fed a wd but also in mice fed a nd.effects of wd and dmb on cardiac functionechocardiography showed that there were no differences in lv mass cardiac systolic and diastolic function across four groups before wd feeding figure 3. at the end of the feeding protocol lv mass was slightly increased in mice fed a wd compared with mice fed a nd but the difference did not reach statistical significance figure 3a.

2014. dmb treatment reversed wd-induced changes in protein levels of tnf-a il-1b and il-10 in the hearts of mice fed a wd whereas it did not alter protein levels of these inflammatory cytokines in mice fed a nd.effects of wd and dmb on blood pressure and heart ratethe mean blood pressure tended to be higher in mice fed a wd compared with mice fed a nd after 8 weeks of wd feeding but there was no statistically significant difference between twogroups figure 6a.

no difference in heart rate was observed among the four groups figure 6b.discussionthe major findings of this study are as follows 1 compared with mice fed a nd mice fed a wd for 8 weeks develop obesity and dyslipidemia and have higher plasma tmao levels 2 treatment with dmb an inhibitor of tma formation prevents wd-induced increases in plasma tmao levels without effects on body weight and dyslipidemia 3 mice fed a wd for 8 weeks exhibit cardiac dysfunction which is prevented by treatment with dmb 4 mice fed a wd for 8 weeks have interstitial fibrosis and inflammation in the heart which are prevented by treatment with dmb.

we observed significant increase in interstitial fibrosis in mice fed a wd when compared with mice fed a nd figure 4. of note wd-induced increase in interstitial fibrosis in mice was prevented by treatment with dmb which had no effect on interstitial fibrosis in mice fed a nd.effects of wd and dmb on expression of inflammatory cytokines in the heartsto further investigate the molecular mechanism by which elevated tmao levels induce cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis in wd-induced obesity we measured the expression of inflammatory cytokines in the hearts which has been demonstrated to be associated with cardiac fibrosis and dysfunction sun et al.

it was unlikely that there were significant differences in the levels of metabolic parameters before wd feeding so we did not measure the baseline levels of metabolic parameters.after wd feeding mice fed a wd gained significantly more body weight than mice fed a nd after 6 weeks of wd feeding and this trend continued throughout the dietary protocol figure 1a.

collectively these findings clearly demonstrate that wd-induces increases in circulating tmao levels independently contribute to cardiac dysfunction in wd-induced obesity.increased cardiac fibrosis has been suggested to account for cardiac dysfunction in mice fed a wd carbone et al.

there were no differences in plasma glucose levels across all four groups figure 1d.effects of wd and dmb on plasma tmao levelsas shown in figure 2 mice fed a wd for 8 weeks exhibited markedly increased plasma tmao levels as compared to mice fed a nd.

2016. our data showed that mice fed a wd for 8 weeks exhibited cardiac systolic and diastolic dysfunction as evidenced by decrease in lvef and increases in lvict lvirt and mpi compared with mice fed a nd.

these findings indicate that elevated circulating tmao levels in mice fed a wd induce cardiac inflammation probably by shifting the cytokine profile from anti- to pro-inflammatory cytokines leading to cardiac fibrosis and dysfunction.one limitation of this study should be acknowledged.

further studies are needed to address this issue by analyzing gut microbiota.in conclusion the present study demonstrates that consumption of a wd increases gut microbiota-dependent metabolite tmao levels in the circulation which lead to cardiac inflammation and fibrosis contributing to cardiac dysfunction in mice.

no difference in cardiac output figure 3c was observed among the four groups.effects of wd and dmb on cardiac fibrosisincreased fibrosis in extracellular tissues has been shown to impair cardiac systolic and diastolic function in animal model of wd-induced obesity carbone et al.

an 8 week dmb treatment beginning at the start of wd feeding did not alter any of these parameters in mice fed either a wd or a nd.

daily food intake was significantly less 4.3 - 0.2 vs.5.5 - 0.3 gday p  0.05 but daily caloric intake was significantlyhigher 19.8 - 1.2 vs. 15.1 - 0.9 kalday p  0.05 in mice fed a wd compared with mice fed a nd.

at the end of the feeding protocol the levels of plasma triglyceride and cholesterol were increased in mice fed a wd as compared to mice fed a nd figures 1bc.

dmb treatment prevented wd-induced changes in lvef lvict lvirt and mpi in mice fed a wd but did not alter these parameters in mice fed a nd.

