2016. biagi e. nylund l. candela m. ostan r. bucci l. pini e. nikkila j. monti d. satokari r. franceschi c. brigidi p. de vos w. 2010. biagi e. franceschi c. rampelli s. severgnini m. ostan r. turroni s. consolandi c. quercia s. scurti m. monti d. capri m. brigidi p. candela m. 2016. bischoff s.c. 2016. boyle r.j. robins-browne r.m.

a dietary regimen low in calories without malnutrition and also up-regulation of par- ticular genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism  moreover gut microbiota could affect the host's aging by modulating its general gene expression profile and micrornas may play a crucial role in these processes an important point in terms of anti-aging medicine is that cross- feeding interactions take place between the gut bifidobacteria and butyrate-producing colon bacteria such as faecalibacterium praus- nitzii and roseburia the short-chain fatty acid butyrate is an essential metabolite produced in the colon since it is a preferred energy source for colon epithelial cells contributing to the maintenance of the gut barrier functions and demonstrating immunomodulatory anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer capabil- ities  it can also exert its beneficial metabolic effects via prevention of metabolic endo- toxemia enhanced mitochondrial activity and activation of gut gluconeogenesis moreover butyrate is sug- gested to play an important role in aging and age-related diseases due to its role in modulating epigenetic processes by inhibition of histone deacetylase activity  recently evidence has been obtained on the therapeutic potential of butyrate in immune diseases cancer and neurological disorders  as well as in type 2 diabetes gut microbiota in healthspan-promoting interventionsdietary interventionsalterations in the composition of the gut microbiota are revealed in various healthspan-promoting interventions.

2016. kulecka m. paziewska a. zeber-lubecka n. ambrozkiewicz f. kopczynski m. kuklinska u. pysniak k. gajewska m. mikula m. ostrowski j.

o'connor e.m. cusack s. harris h.m. coakley m. lakshminarayanan b. o'sullivan o. fitzgerald g.f. deane j. o'connor m. harnedy n. o'connor k. o'mahony d. van sinderen d. wallace m. brennan l. stanton c. marchesi j.r. fitzgerald a.p.

brown e.m. schroeter k. allen-vercoe e. 2013. pistollato f. sumalla cano s. elio i. masias vergara m. giampieri f. battino m. 2016. pope j.l.

2009. rampelli s. candela m. turroni s. biagi e. collino s. franceschi c. o'toole p.w.

a healthy gut micro- biome plays a key role in the control of metabolism resistance to infection and inflammation preventing against autoimmunity and cancer and also in regulating the brain-gut axis  moreover gut microbiota was shown to be able to influence the risk of gastrointestinal pathologies such as colorectal cancer inflammatory bowel disease and irritable bowel syndrome and some extra-intestinal disorders including those affecting the liver and the respiratory tract bronchial asthma allergy cystic fibro- sis etc  the alteration in number and composition of the populations of bifidobacterium genus species of which are normal inhabitants of a healthy human intestinal tract is seemingly the most frequent feature of these diseases and probiotics containing bifidobacterium species show the powerful potential to prevent and treat these and other diseases  recently microbiota-targeted approach was proposed as a promising therapeutic mode in treating age-associated metabolic and neurodegenerative disorders in this review recent evidence that microbiome-targeted interventions can have a therapeutic potential not only for particular age-related diseases but also for slowing down the aging process per se and for promot- ing human healthspan and longevity is summarized and discussed.early-life microbial programming of adult health and diseasethere is convincing findings that adverse environmental expo- sures early in life may 'program' the life-long health and disease risk  over the last years emerging evidence has been obtained that gut microbiota plays an important role in devel- opmental programming of adult health and disease.

the adult-like intestinal microbial community is established over the first 3-5 years of life and it remains relatively stable during the rest of the life but may be changed depending on lifestyle diet bacterial infections antibiotic or surgical interventions etc  the early microbial colonization of the gut can influence the subsequent symbiotic host-bacterial interactions and affect the occurrence of diseases in later life such as metabolic disorders including obesity and type 2 diabeteschronic intestinal inflammation autoimmune diseases allergy irritable bowel syndrome allergic gastroenteritis and necrotizing enterocolitis  this process is referred to as 'microbial programming' age-related changes in the intestinal microbial compositionan important point in this context is that composition of the intestinal microbiota substantially changes with aging and related disease outcomes the differences between the gut microbiota in young and old adults are revealed by using both cell culture-dependent and independent approaches  aging-associated alterations in gut physiology i.e.

such inflammatory state might make the host more sensitive to gut bacteria and vice versa since alterations in the composition of intestinal microbiota are associated with the progression of various pathological conditions in older adults.the age-related changes in the gut microbiota compositioninclude a decline in microbiota diversity a decrease in saccharolytic bacteria and an increase in proteolytic bacteria  decreased abundance of core dominant species and increased abundance of subdominant species an increase of certain proteobacteria a reduction of bifidobacterial counts and also a decrease of the ratio of firmicutes to bacteroides fb  for example in the vaginally delivered breast-fed infants the bifidobacteria numbers decrease throughout the life course from 90 of the total colon microbiota following birth to less than 5 in the colon of adult individuals and these numbers are even smaller in elderly persons or in patients with certain diseases including inflammatory bowel disease antibiotic-associated diarrhea irritable bowel syndrome allergies obesity and regressive autism the pronounced changes in gut microbiota occur through the transition from adulthood to old age.

therefore the gut microbiota composition can be a criterion for the metabolic health a schematic representation of major age-associated changes inhuman intestinal microbiota composition is given in the role of gut microbiota in the host agingthe evidence was obtained that microbiome composition may affect the rate of aging  no chronological threshold or age at which the microbiota composition harshly changes has been identified rather these changes proceed gradually with time  the rate of age-related deterioration of a mutu- alistic interaction between the host and intestinal microbiota isstrongly influenced by particular factors such as age-associated alterations in lifestyle nutrition frailty and inflammation  certain variants of gut microbiome were shown to be predictors of exceptional human longevity.

remarkably asyn aggregates known to be substantially implicated in the pathogenesis of pd are found in both myenteric and submucosal plexuses of the enteric ner- vous system before they appear in the brain indicating that these proteinopathies may spread from gut to brain in a 'prion-like' manner  since complaints of constipation in patients with pd begin approximately ten years before the start of the impairment of motor functions and since these constipation complaints can be treated with antibiotics it is assumed that this disease originates in the gut in a recent research with mice overexpressing asyn convincing evidence was obtained that gut microbiota is key player in motor deficits microglia acti- vation and asyn pathology in this study antibiotic supplementation ameliorated whereas microbial re- colonization promoted pathological conditions in adult animals and oral administration of specific microbial metabolites to germ- free mice promoted the motor symptoms and neuroinflammation.

backhed f. nieuwdorp m. 2015. hayashi h. sakamoto m. kitahara m. benno y.

gennuso m. prelle a. zanetti o. lussignoli g. mirabile d. bellandi d. gentile s. belotti g. villani d. harach t. bolmont t. padovani a. boccardi m. frisoni g.b.

perna s. allieri f. castellazzi a.m. 2015. sanchez b. delgado s. blanco-miguez a. lourenc o a. gueimonde m. margolles a.

zhang c. li s. yang l. huang p. li w. wang s. zhao g. zhang m. pang x. yan z. liu y. zhao l. 2013. zhang x. zheng x. yuan y.

