The Italian nobility mummies exhibited a higher bacterial diversity as compared to the Inca mummies when using 16S ribosomal rRNA gene amplicon sequencing but both groups showed bacterial and fungal taxa when using shotgun metagenomic sequencing that may resemble both the thanatomicrobiome and extant human gut microbiomes.

Contigs were uploaded to Metagenomic Rapid Annotations using Subsystems Technology MG-RAST and annotated using the KEGG database with a minimum identity of 80 and an e-value of 10 x 10-5.In the context of enzymes that are associated with diet and metabolism genes encoding for CAZymes involved in the breakdown of complex carbohydrates  identified in the pre-IncaInca and Italian nobility mummies were further compared to those of modern Amazonians and European gut metagenomes.

Mummy FI9 DNA was previously prepared in a DNA library following Illumina MiSeq DNA library preparation protocol using the MiSeq reagent kit V2 Illumina Inc. San Diego CA USA 2 x 150 bp for paired-end reads on a MiSeq following the manufacturer's guidelines .16S ribosomal RNA Gene Sequence AnalysesPaired-end fastq files were joined using the QIIME pipeline using joinpairedends.py.

Briefly OTUs were picked using the pickopenreferenceotus.py workflow followed by taxonomic classification using the summarizetaxathroughplots.py script.Shotgun Metagenome Sequence ProcessingDNA preparation for metagenome sequencing was also performed at MRDNA under strict procedures to eliminate cross-contamination with modern DNA including working in areas that are sterilized before and after every use using DNAaway as well as UV-radiation to eliminate cross-contamination with modern samples.

Alpha diversity between the pre-IncaInca and Italian nobility mummies was as compared using the comparealphadiversity.py script with default parameters including a nonparametric two sample t-test and using Bonferroni correction.

In the present study the gut microbiota genes associated with metabolism and putative resistome of Inca and Italian nobility mummies were characterized by using high-throughput sequencing.

Classification was performed at the order level with a minimum identity cutoff of 80 and e-value of 10 x 10-5.Characterization of the Gut Microbial Communities Using Shotgun MetagenomicsThe gut microbial communities in the pre-IncaInca and Italian nobility mummies were also characterized using shotgun metagenomics generating 146081692 reads for mummy FI9 16805260 reads for mummy FI3 16537474 reads for mummy FI12 16570556 reads for mummy NASD3 17687976 reads for mummy NASD14 18959490 reads for mummy NASD22 16847766 reads for mummy NASD27 and 14265734 reads for mummy NASD29.

The higher bacterial alpha diversity using 16S rRNA high-throughput sequencing in the Italian nobility mummies is intriguing as it suggests that differences in dietary habits plant- vs. animal-based may support a previous study that an animal-based affects bacterial diversity of the human gut .

All of the measures indicate a higher alpha diversity within the Italian nobility mummies compared to the pre-IncaInca mummies nonparametric two sample t-test Bonferroni adjusted p  0.01.The gut microbiota of the pre-IncaInca and Italian nobility mummies are significantly different ANOSIM p  0.014 with data clustering according to culture as shown with both the heatmap Figure A and the Procrustes plot Supplementary Figure S3.

For instance the Ascomycota 76.7 and Firmicutes 14.26 contributed the largest number of CAZyme genes in the pre-IncaInca gut metagenomes whereas the Proteobacteria 55.3 and Actinobacteria 41.2 contributed the largest number of CAZyme genes in the Italian nobility gut metagenomes.

