This might be achieved through cross-talk between gut bacteria epi- thelial cells lining the gut colono- cytes and immune cells 2.

4 show that butyrate instructs colonocytes to consume oxygen through the b-oxidation metabolic pathway and consequently pro- tects the host against the expansion of po- tentially pathogenic bacteria that can lead to inflammatory bowel diseases.Colonocytes are exposed to numerous microbial antigens molecules that activate immune cells and metabolites.

They demonstrate that butyrate activates the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-g PPAR-g in colonocytes which in turn repressed theColonocyte metabolism determines gut healthOn treatment with antibiotics colonocytes exhibit altered metabolism which changes the environment of the gut lumen and the types of bacteria that can thrive.expression of NOS2 and reduced luminal nitrate levels see the figure.Immune cells also respond to butyrate through G protein-coupled receptors 6.

How and why do both nitrate and oxygen increase upon streptomycin treatment This study un- equivocally demonstrates that Escherichia coli a surrogate marker for dysbiosis re- quires nitrate for energy production and thus proliferation.

Dysbiosis-inducing bacteria are often fac- ultative anaerobes which can survive with or without oxygen.

Colono-cytes consume oxygen to b-oxidize butyr- ate which contributes to luminal hypoxia by limiting oxygen diffusion into the gut lumen 7.

Additionally immune cells such as regulatory T cells T  that suppress inflammation are decreased on antibiotic treatment and during intestinal inflammation altered gut barrier function or dysbiosis 10.

Therefore regulating host-derived nitrate and oxygen are key to symbiosis.

Recent discoveries suggest that obligate anaerobes also prevent expansion of facul- tative anaerobes by limiting host produc- tion of nitrate and oxygen 8.

treated mice with the antibiotic streptomycin which alters the microbiota composition decreases buty- rate concentration and increases nitrate and oxygen in the lumen.

