the sex ratio differed between cases 23 male 6 female and controls 13 male 16 female pchi2  0.014. constipation was more frequent in patients 2029 than controls 429 pchi2  0.014 nicotine use was more frequent in controls 829 than patients 029 pchi2  0.008 and caffeine consumption was more frequent in controls 2329 than in patients 829 0006-8993c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.pchi2  0.0002. alcohol consumption yesno and eating fer- mented milk products did not differ between patients and controls.

our study in conjunc- tion with the already published studies shows that a large scale well controlled study including control groups taking dopaminer- gic drugs and drug naive pd patients is needed to obtain detailed robust data about changes in the gut microbiota in pd.

since a previous large study explicitly mentioned that comt-inhibitors had an influence on bacterial counts  we performed an analysis without the four patients taking comt- inhibitors which did not substantially change the results .comparison to previous studiesfour previous studies that are in principle comparable addressed differences in the microbiota between pd patients andcontrols  .

we did not include another recently published study in the comparison because the bacterial nomen- clature used is not compatible with our study .roc analysisto explore the potential usefulness of microbiota analysis as a biomarker for pd we performed a roc analysis.

the main weakness of our study is the low number of participants and the imbalanced gender distribu-table 1comparison of p-values of bacteria associated with pd in this study or in previous studies.

significant and suggestive p-values 0.1 in bold print.bacteriacasecontrolsexconstipationalcohollactobacillaceae0.073---barnesiellaceae0.012---enterococcaceae0.0340.0970.0480.0004as a biomarker of pd the study needs to include at least two inde- pendent case as well as control groups.methods and materialssubjects29 pd cases and 29 controls were included in this study.

this study explores whether pd patients n  29 have gut microbiota differences com- pared to control subjects n  29 which might support a role of the gut microbiota in the pd pathophysiology.resultsdemographics and clinical datatable a.1 contains detailed demographic and clinical data.

a significant increase of lactobacillaceae in pd patients is in accordance with three previous studies while the fourth study provides no informa- tion on lactobacillaceae  .

in our study pd patients did not report probiotic use or other dietary habits explaining the difference in lactobacillaceae abundance.

to allow replication and assess the potential of gut microbiota compositionparticipants.clinical datacases n  40 and controls n  42 from our clinic patients were initially contacted and informed about the study by a letter asking for their participation.

we thank all patients and controls who contributed to this study and katja cloppenborg-schmidt from the institute for experimental medi- cine christian-albrechts-university of kiel germany for technical assistance.appendix a. supplementary datasupplementary data associated with this article can be found in the online version at .references .

patients with restless legs syndrome or drug naive patients.

the aim of this study was to determine whether parkinson disease is associated with qualitative or quantitative changes in the gut microbiome.we analyzed the gut microbiome in 29 pd cases and 29 age-matched controls by next-generation- sequencing of the 16s rrna gene and compared diversity indices and bacterial abundances between cases and controls.

barnesiellaceae and enterococcacea were also more abundant in cases in this study but not in other studies.

therefore we limit the comparison to bacterial families showing significant dif- ferences between cases and controls in at least one study .

