a recent study assessing the relationships between thegut-associated bacterial microbiome and cardiac disease in hu- mans found greater proportions of sequence reads classified as phyla bacteroidetes firmicutes and fusobacteria in patients with cardiac disease than in patients identified as healthy con- trols while sequence reads identified as proteobacteria were re- duced in cardiac disease patients cui et al.

while notkrynak et al.3figure 1. gut-associated bacterial taxa indicative of cardiac disease state n  4 gorillas with and n  4 gorillas without cardiac disease as diagnosed by ultrasound indicator species analysis conducted excluding taxa representing 1 of the microbiome in at least one animal relative proportions of significant indicator taxa are displayed a  0.05. classification reported as 100 identification.directly comparable due to differing laboratory methodologies our gorilla dataset did not reveal similar patterns in relative pro- portions of reads across these four phyla.

future studies with larger sample sizes and broader sampling across institutions could investi- gate additional factors such as diet medication age and genetic relationships between individuals on the association between gut-associated bacterial microbiome and cardiac disease in the species.although our current sample sizes are relatively small n  8 and should be confirmed with broader sampling in fu- ture studies indicator species analyses revealed that otus from the phyla proteobacteria otu 184 genus ruminobacter bac- teroidetes otu 119 spirochaetes otu 6 genus treponema and firmicutes otu 188 family mogibacteriaceae were significant indicators of gorilla cardiac disease while other otus of the phyla bacteroidetes firmicutes tenericutes and spirochaetes were significant indicators of gorillas without cardiac disease fig.

this raises the ques- tion of if and how gut-microbial composition and cardiac disease will be associated in non-human primates.as is the case in humans cardiac disease is a leadingcause of mortality in zoo-housed great apes munson and montali  varki et al.

in this study we tested the hy- pothesis that the bacterial gut-microbiome composition is as- sociated with cardiac disease in zoo-housed western lowland gorillas.materials and methodswe assessed associations between gut-microbiome composition and cardiac disease in zoo-housed western lowland gorillas us- ing high-throughput sequencing of the 16s rrna gene region of bacteria from fecal samples collected over a 4-week period from eight male socially housed western lowland gorillas at zoo at- lanta.

we found an average of 22.6 of sequence reads classified as fir- micutes in gorillas with cardiac disease and 25.8 for gorillas without cardiac disease.

for example although cardiac disease ap- pears common in both humans and captive populations of non- human primates the pathology of human and primate hearttable 1. permanova assessment of gut bacterial community com- position in zoo-housed western lowland gorillas gorilla gorilla gorilla.tdf sums of sqs mean sqsfpdisease appear to differ varki et al.

the gut microbiome is associated with cardiac disease in humans and similarly the gut microbiome may be associated with cardiac diseases in close relatives of humans such as gorillas.

we assessed the relationship between cardiac disease and gut bacterial composition in eight zoo-housed male western lowland gorillas n  4 with and n  4 without cardiac disease utilizing 16s rrna gene analysis on the illumina miseq sequencing platform.

our results suggest that further investigations between diet and cardiac disease could improve the management and health of zoo-housed populations of this endangered species.keywords gut microbiome illumina miseq captive management gorilla gorilla gorilla diet heart disease zoointroductiongut-microbiome composition is associated with multiple hu- man health concerns including obesity zhang et al.

cardiac disease status was determined by means of ultrasound during routine veterinary procedures murphy et al.

to test for differ-ences in bacterial community composition between treatment groups gorillas with and without cardiac disease over time four sample collection weeks and the interactions between these predictor variables across individual gorillas i.e.

we used indica- tor species analyses roberts  to determine which bacterial taxa contribute to the microbiome differences between gorillas with and without cardiac disease a  0.05. indicator species analysis was conducted on the bacterial community excluding taxa found to be 1 maximum relative read abundance in at least one sample.results and discussioncardiac disease was significantly associated with microbiome composition in zoo-housed western lowland gorillas per- manova table .

further as- sessment of how environmental factors including diet influ- ence the relative abundance of treponema and microbial com- munity function between wild and zoo-housed western lowland gorillas will be a critical area of research to improve human care of the species.our results indicate that associations likely exist between cardiac disease and the gut microbiome of zoo-housed western lowland gorillas.

have been reported to constitute up to 27.4 of the microbiome in wild western lowland gorillas bittar et al.

