beginning at 2 mo of age more than 80 of the mice spontaneously develop an inflammatory demyelinating disease that recapitulates features of early human ms the disease course is often relapsing-remitting affects varying parts of the brain and spinal cord with lesions featuring round-cell infiltrates and large confluent areas of de- myelination with axonal degeneration and responds to b cell- depleting therapy 6. most importantly spontaneous disease critically depends on an intact commensal microbiome as germ- free rr mice remain healthy 7.we reasoned that if the gut microbiota is a determinant factorcontributing to the severity and course of human ms transplanta- tion of human fecal microbial communities from ms twins should result in a higher frequency of spontaneous eae than the transfer of fecal material from healthy twins.

a phylogenetic alpha diversity of fecal microbiota in healthy twins hd black n  34 and ms twins ms green n  34. b pcoa of weighted unifrac community distances for fecal microbiota of healthy twins black n  34 and ms twins green n  34.fig.

germ-free rr sjlj mice were gavaged with fecal material from healthy twins and were treated weekly with either isotype control antibodies n  10 or neutralizing anti-il-10 antibodies n  11. data were pooled from two independent experiments.fecal material from healthy twins fig.

however spontaneous disease promptly follows exposure of germ- free mice to spf-derived fecal material 7. taken together these observations indicate that the encephalitogenic immune response observed in these mice is mediated by the intestinal microbiota.translation of these experimental observations into human ms poses considerable practical challenges.

while the genera adlercreutzia and tannerella were more abundant in the feces of mice transplanted with the healthy twin fecal material fewer bacteria of the genera ruminococcus were present in these mice.

consistent with our results sutterella has previously been associated with better out- comes in patients with inflammatory bowel disease 16 as well as with resistance to eae development in male tnfr2-- mice 17. the gut flora may also affect cns autoimmune responses by changing the metabolic environment of the gastrointestinal tract to produce metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids and aryl hydrocarbon receptor ahr ligands which are known to affect microglia and astrocytes 18-20. to identify potential metabolic pathways that are altered in recipient mice we performed shotgun metagenomic sequencing on total stool dna.

c pcoa of weighted unifrac community distances comparing fecal microbiota of human donors purple n  8 and mouse recipients gray n  47. d pcoa of weighted unifrac community distances for fecal microbiota of mice transplanted with microbiota from healthy n  23 or ms n  24 twins.

2e.increased incidence of spontaneous eae in rr mice colonized with microbiota from ms-affected twins.

remarkably rr mice trans- planted with ms patient-derived microbiota developed sponta- neous eae at a higher frequency than animals colonized withintestinal bacteria from healthy twins fig.

the most significant difference however was a reduced abundance of the genus sutterella in mice colonized with microbiota from the ms twins compared with recipients offig.

germ-free rr sjlj mice were gavaged with fecal material from healthy hd n  18 or ms ms n  20 twins using in total five mz twin pairs.

additional studies are required to validate these findings as well as to identify similar associations in a larger cohort of human subjects.reduced il-10 production in rr mice colonized with microbiota from ms-affected twins.

second we transplanted fecal samples from ms-affected and healthy twins into germ-free mice.

2013 gut microbiota from twins discordant for obesity modulatemetabolism in mice.

we studied their gut microbiota in two tiers first intestinal microbial pro- files of ms twins and healthy twins were compared by 16s ri- bosomal rna rrna amplicon and metagenomic shotgun sequencing.

