pca and pcoa analyses revealed that the gut microbiota in the dss group deviated from thebaseline structure and the hqd group did not return to the level of the control group figure 2d and 2e.

samples of the control group indicated by a samples of the dss group by b and samples of the dsshqd group by c. hqd huangqin decoction.orders of microflora.

furthermore the results in figure 5a-5c show that the relative abundance of bacteroides odoribacter and prevotellaceae uncultured in the dss group was markedly higher than in the control group and there was no statistical difference compared with the dsshqd group.

moreover the relative abundance of lactobacillus decreased in dss- induced colitis which is in accordance with previous studies 29. a significant increase however was found in the hqd group compared with that in the dss group.

in our study mice with dss-induced colitis showed no significant distinction compared with mice from the hqd treated group and only slight symptoms compared with the abdss group.

the relative abundance of lactococcus was higher in the dsshqd group than in the dss group whereas desulfovibrio and helicobacter were decreased.

the mice in the hqd group experienced less weight loss compared with the dss group mice at 7-9 days figure 1b.

compared with the control group the levels of tnf-a il-6 il-1b and cox-2 were significantly increased in the colon of the dss group.

s24-7norank was found at significantly lower levels in the dss group compared with that in the control group.

at 5-6 days the mice in the abdss group exhibited significant weight loss compared with the dss group mice figure 6b.

although gradual weight loss was observed in the abdsshqd group there was no obvious difference compared with the dss group.

as shown by our results the relative abundance of desulfovibrio increased significantly in the dss group but decreased significantly in the hqd group.

mice in control group and dss group consumed the same volume of water as controls.

in the dss group the predominant intestinal flora including deferribacteres porphyromonadaceae bacteroidaceae enterobacteriales and rhodospirillales played an important role in the active period of colitis.

in this study we aim to investigate changes in the microbiota when dextran sulphate sodium dss-induced colitis is ameliorated by hqd.resultshqd ameliorates colitis and regulates cytokine expression levels in the colon of mice with dss- induced colitiscolitis was induced in mice by administration of 3 dss in drinking water for 7 days figure 1a.

