baseline bacteroidetes abundance significantly corre- lated with a the increase in postprandial fat oxidation in men n  7 p  0.03 but b not in women n  7 p  0.68. the incr- ease in fat oxidation is expressed as dweek 12 - week 0 calculated from the relative contribution of fat oxidation to total energy expenditure .relation between changes in microbiota composition and fat oxidation following egcgres supplementationstrikingly baseline bacteroidetes abundance was significantly correlated with the egcgres-induced increase in postprandial fat oxidation area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve auc r  0.855 p  0.01 in men.

b  - 0.057 p  0.84. moreover the bacteroidetesfirmicutes ratio was significantly correlated with postprandial fat oxidation r  0.813 p  0.03. the abundance of firmicutes was not related to changes in fat oxidation r  - 0.191 p  0.68. other bacterial groups showed no significant association with fat oxidation data not shown.

briefly fat oxidation expressed as the percentage of energy expenditure was increased in the egcgres group as compared with pla during fasting p  0.03 and postprandial conditions after consumption of a high-fat mixed meal 2.6 mj 61 energy fat p  0.02. in line skeletal muscle mitochondrial oxidative capacity assessed using ex vivo high-resolution respirometry was increased after egcgres supplementation versus pla p  0.01.figure 1. correlation between baseline bacteroidetes abun- dance and the egcgres-induced increase in postprandial fat oxidation.

in fact it has been proposed earlier that metabolic health status might determine the effect of polyphenol supplementation on host metabolism.bacteroidetes abun- dance appears to be related to markers of impaired metabolic health.moreover bacteroidetes abundance was related to low fecal short-chain fatty acid concentrationswhich may stimulate fat oxidation in overweight humans.noteworthy in the present study a higher abundance of bacteroidetes in men was paralleled by a more unhealthy metabolic profile increased fasting glucose and inflammatory markers as compared with women which might support this notion.changes in microbial composition after pharmacological inter-ventions have been related to changes in host physiology.inline polyphenol supplementation in rodents reduced adipose tissue mass and ectopic fat accumulation insulin resistance and inflammation and these improvements were related to changes in microbiota composition.in the present study however we did not find significant correlations between the changes in gut microbiota composition and other metabolic parameters beside fat oxidation after egcgres supplementation.

this correlation remained significant after adjustment for mean fat oxidation dependent variable dweek 12 - week 0 fat oxidation auc independent variables bacteroidetes abundanceweek 0 std.

likewise no significant relationship was found between changes in gut microbiota composition and skeletal muscle mitochondrial oxidative capacity.in women no significant associations were observed between changes in gut microbiota composition and egcgres-induced effects on fasting and postprandial fat oxidation for baseline bacteroidetes and postprandial fat oxidation.discussiondietary polyphenols have been associated with a variety of health benefits related to chronic metabolic and inflammatory diseases such as obesity diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.

second we examined whether changes in microbiota composition may underlie the egcgres-induced improvement in lipid oxidation and mitochondrial oxidative capacity in humans that we have previously found.materials and methodsstudy designin this randomized double-blind pla-controlled study which was a substudy of a larger study designed to investigate the effects of poly- phenol supplementation on insulin sensitivity fat oxidation and skeletal muscle oxidative capacitysubjects received a combination of egcg and1department of human biology maastricht university medical center maastricht the netherlands and 2department of medical microbiology nutrim school of nutrition and translational research in metabolism maastricht university medical center maastricht the netherlands.

prausnitizii abundance as compared with pla p  0.10 3. however these changes were not observed in women 4. the abundance of firmicutes actinobacteria g-proteobacteria andmuciniphila phylum verrucomicrobiae sulfate-reducing bac- teria acetogenic bacteria and the archeon m. smithii were not significantly affected by the intervention neither in men 3 nor in women 4.fat oxidation and mitochondrial oxidative capacitythe effects of egcgres supplementation on fat oxidation and mitochondrial oxidative capacity have been reported previously for the total group of participants.

j appl microbiol 2004 97 1166-1177.gagen ej denman se padmanabha j zadbuke s al jassim r morrison m et al.

in line with our findings polyphenols seem to have antimicrobial characteristicsmost likely because of their chelating properties on iron which is an important oligo-element for heme-utilizing bacteria.in contrast to most previous studies reviewed in duenas et al.and cardona et al.

in line supplementation of the polyphenols epigallocatechin-3- gallate egcg and resveratrol res has been shown to improve markers of insulin sensitivity inflammation and fat oxidation in humans.although these effects have largely been attributed to direct effects on peripheral organs importantly however our gut microbes may have an important role in the conversion of polyphenols to bioactive compounds.furthermore polyphenolsmay modify the gut microbial composition thereby acting as prebiotics.until now studies that have examined the effects of polyphenols on gut microbiota composition and assessed the involvement of the intestinal microbiota in effects on peripheral metabolism are scarce.here we aimed to investigate the effects of combined egcg and res supplementation for 12 weeks on gut microbiota composition in humans.

serial dilutions of plasmid constructs containing the target sequences were used to create calibration curves for quantification.fat oxidation and ex vivo mitochondrial oxidative capacity as described elsewherea high-fat mixed meal test 2.6 mj 61.2 energy fat was performed to assess whole-body energy expenditure and fatoxidation before t  0 min and for 4 h after ingestion of the high-fat mixed meal test by means of indirect calorimetry using an open-circuit ventilated hood system omnical maastricht university maastricht thenetherlands.

regression analysis was performed to assess relations between baseline abundances or intervention-induced changes dweek 12 - week 0 in the abundance of microbial taxa and changes in fatoxidation and muscle mitochondrial oxidative capacity in the egcgres group men n  7 women n  7. microbial abundances and egcgres- induced changes in microbial abundances were used as independent variable and changes in fat oxidation and mitochondrial oxidative capacity as dependent variables.

b  0.865 p  0.03 meanweek 0 week 12 fat oxidation auc std.

the egcgres-induced reduction in the abundance of bacteroidetes and f. prausnitzii in men was however not related to the observed changes in fat oxidation und oxidative capacity following egcgres supplementation as compared with pla.

