symptoms included gastroesophageal reflux disease patient 1 2 and 4 chronic constipation patient 1 2 3and 4 intermittent diarrhea patient 2 3 4 and 5 and abdominal painbloating patient 1 3 and 4.relative bacterial abundance at the phylum levelinflammationinfectionthree of five patients showed inflammatory biomarkers in their stool analyses.

the als death is due to respi- ratory failure typically occurring two to 5 years from diagnosis forshew and bromberg 2003 miller et al.

we have demonstrated gut dysbiosis and increased intestinal permeability in the sod1g93a als mouse model wu et al.

bacterial lipopolysaccharides lps glycolipids found in the outer membrane of gram-negative bacteria are pro-inflammatory and have found to be increased in the serum of als patients zhang et al.

2009. indeed increased inflammatory cytokine il-17 and il-23 have been reported in serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with als rentzos et al.

2010. we have demonstrated increased serum il-17 in the sod1g93a als mice compared to the wild-type mice wu et al.

our study showed the dysbiosis was correlated with intestinal inflammation and increased intestinal permeability in als wu et al.

patients 2 and 3 presented with bulbar-onset dis- ease and went on to develop definite als forshew and bromberg 2003. patients 4 and 5 had limb-onset definite als patient 5 also had celiac disease.

jr follows patients 1 2 and 5. patients 3 and 4 were assessed by release of their medical records and direct email communication patient 4 or email commu- nication via a first-hand relative patient 3 when als progression made direct communication difficult.

2017. in als patients patient 4 had low butyrate and total scfa levels in the stool samples and patient 5 had borderline low of total scfas.

the complex interplay of gas- trointestinal - central nervous system cns communica- tion involves autonomic and enteric nervous systemsneuroendocrine and immune systems forsyth et al.

2011 hsiao et al.

2013 sampson et al.

we have shown that using the bacterial product butyrate a short chain fatty acid scfa improves gut integrity and microbial homeostasis and prolongs lifespan of sod1g93a mice zhang et al.

firmicutesbacteroidetes fb ratio was used as an indicator of dysbiosis tamboli et al.

