As expected much fewer b7-integrin deficient TH17 cells were detected in SI compared to wild-type TH17 cells C. Consequently mice that received b7-integrin deficient TH17 cells had more fat mass and bigger adipocytes compared to the ones that received wild-type TH17 cells D F. They also exhibited higher fasting glucose levels G. Serum insulin levels were similar in both mice and mice with b7-integrin deficient TH17 cells exhibited more severe glucose intolerance and insulin resistance H J.

Nonetheless when compared to mice that received Treg cells only mice that received IL17-deficient TH17 cells showed a significant improvement in weight control and glucose toler- ance A and E. These data indicate that the beneficial effects of gut-tropic TH17 cells are mainly mediated by IL17 but additional factors are also involved.Analysis of gut microbiota revealed that mice having IL17-deficient TH17 cells had significantly fewer Bacter- oidetes and more Firmicutes than mice having wild-type TH17 cells suggesting that IL17 is critical for the effects of SI TH17 cells in promoting expansion of commensal mi- crobes linked with leanness G. In the gut IL17 enhances protective immunity and regulates commensal bacteria by strengthening epithelial barrier function and inducing antimicrobial peptide production.Paneth cells in the crypts of SI serve as an important source of antimicro- bial peptides.

The epididymal fat mass was also higher in VAD mice C. FurthermoreVAD mice showed significantly higher fasting serum glucose and insulin levels as well as exacerbated glucose intolerance and insulin resistance D G. Obesity induces infil- tration of macrophages into VAT and their phenotypic switch from an M2- into an M1-polarized state.We found that the percentage and the number of VAT M2 macrophages were lower in VAD mice H. These data suggest that reduction of SI TH17 cells correlates with the severity of obesity and metabolic disorders and imply that enhancement of SI TH17 cells in obese mice may show a beneficial effect.Adoptive Transfer of Gut-Tropic T-Helper 17 Cells Improves Obesity and Metabolic SyndromeTo see whether the restoration of SI TH17 cells might lessen the weight gain and obesity-associated metabolic syndrome we directly tested the role of TH17 cells in HFD mice using an adoptive T cell transfer method.

In addition unlike wild-type TH17 cells b7-integrin deficient TH17 cells failed to reverse the fat accumulation in the liver K. Collectively these data demonstrate that gut homing is necessary for the transferred TH17 cells to elicit beneficial effects on host metabolism.Gut-Tropic T-Helper 17 Cells Control Obesity and Metabolic Disorders via Interleukin 17IL17 is the major effector cytokine of TH17 cells.

Notably IL17-deficient TH17 cells were not as effective as wild-type TH17 cells in improving obesity and associated metabolic syndrome A F. Compared to the transfer of wild-type TH17 cells the transfer of IL17- deficient TH17 cells resulted in less weight loss more epidid- ymal fat mass and higher fasting glucose and insulin levels as well as more severe glucose intolerance and insulin resistance.

Therefore the dramatic reduction of the R3 subset together with the functional alteration of APCs in HFD mice likely contributes to the decrease of the SI TH17 population.A Further Reduction of Small Intestine T-Helper 17 Cells in Obese Mice by Vitamin A Depletion Correlates With Deterioration of Metabolic DisordersIL17 inhibits adipogenesis and regulates glucose meta- bolism in mice.In addition IL17 controls intestinal barrier function disruption of which is linked to development of obesity and insulin resistance.Therefore we hypothe- sized that reduction of intestinal TH17 cells may contribute to HFD-induced metabolic disorders and examined if further reduction of SI TH17 cells below the level found in HFD mice would worsen the HFD-induced obesity.

The mice that received the fecal bacteria of TH17Treg-transferred HFD mice showed less weight gain less fat mass and lower fasting serum glucose levels compared to mice that received the fecal bacteria from Treg- transferred HFD mice Supplementary Figure 5A C. Serum insulin levels and glucose tolerance test did not show sig- nificant differences between the 2 groups whereas insulin sensitivity seemed slightly better in mice that received the fecal bacteria from TH17Treg-transferred mice Supplementary Figure 5D F. These results support a notion that gut-tropic TH17 cells promote the expansion of gut microbiota that is beneficial for metabolic homeostasis.Gut-Homing Property of the Transferred T-Helper 17 Cells Is Critical for Improving Obesity and Metabolic SyndromeTo examine whether the transferred TH17 cells indeed migrated to the gut we analyzed T cells in the recipient mice and found a preferential expansion of TH17 cells in SI A and B.

By visualizing Paneth cell granules with Ulex europaeus agglutinin-1 staining we observed that mice that received IL17-deficient TH17 cells had markedly less gran- ular contents compared to mice that received wild-type TH17 cells H. We also found that expression of antimicrobial peptides such as b-defensin3 and Reg3g was significantly lower in SI of mice that received IL17-deficient TH17 cells I.

Despite the reduction of total TH17 cells HFD did not change the propor- tion of GM-CSFth or T-betth TH17 cells which are considered pathogenic.- Similarly to our study Garidou et al reported an increase of TH1 and a decrease of TH17 populations in SI of mice fed a short-term 10 or 30 days HFD causing early insulin resistance without obesity induction.

In addition we found that co-transfer of gut-tropic TH17 cells along with Treg cells dramatically changed gut microbiota and attenuated obesity and metabolic disorders indicating that intestinal TH17 cells play an important role in keeping the metabolic homeostasis.

