the pathogenesis of this dysmotility is multifactorial including autonomic neu- ropathy inflammatory mediators dysbiosis and neuropeptides.disruption of intestinal barrier translocation and liver immunology the last standdysbiosis increased intestinal permeability induced by disruption of the intestinal barrier and overwhelming of the defense mechanisms leads to bacterial translocation  .

in cir- rhotic patients treatment with nsbb has been shown to increase intestinal transit reduce intestinal bacterial over- growth decrease intestinal permeability and reduce bac- terial translocation  .antibioticsdespite pre-clinical models having shown that rifaximin treatment improves microbiota composition and function clinical trials have not shown significant differences in those endpoints probably due to these studies have been carried out in patients with advanced cirrhosis and therefore the microbiota reflects the cirrhotic status rather than the effect of rifaximin  .

disturbance of this balance can lead to increased intestinal permeability and result in disease.this review intends to integrate and summarize the current knowledge about the role that the gut microbiota plays in the pathogenesis of chronic liver diseases and portal hypertension and provides a glimpse of its clinical and therapeutics perspectives.intestinal barrier the forefront of the defenseonly a small part of the intestinal luminal content reaches the portal circulation since a highly specialized barrier limits direct interaction between this content the underly- ing lamina propria and the immune system.

the intestinal epithelial barrier is composed of a mucus lining an epithelial monolayer of specialized cells and the intercellular junc- tions that seal the space between them and control traf- ficking across the intestinal mucosa.

the apical junctional proteins claudins occludins and zonula occludens known as tight junctions and adherens junctions regulate paracellular transport and seal the space between the epithelial cells.some hepatotoxic compounds such as alcohol can directly affect the intestinal epithelial tight junctions impairing the intestinal barrier and inducing translocation and endotoxemia -.

acetaldehyde an oxidative metabolite that is generated by intestinal metabolism of alcohol increases intestinal permeability by disrupting integrity and expression of epithelial tight junction mole- cules.

bacterial overgrowth dysbiosis and altered intestinal permeability promote bacterial translocation from the intestinal lumen to the mesenteric lymph nodes and gut-associated lymphoid tissue.

in addition intestinal bacterial overgrowth and changes in the composition of intestinal bacterial flora can promote bacterial translocation defined as the migra- tion of bacteria or bacterial products from the gut to the extra-intestinal space  fig.

due to dysbiosis impairment of the intestinal barrier and altered immunity status bacterial products can reach the liver through the portal vein where they are recognized by specific receptors activate the immune system and lead to a proinflammatory response.

the gut microbiota also plays a critical role as a modulator of bile acid metabolism which can also influence intestinal permeability and portal hypertension through the farne- soid-x receptor.

further studies targeting intestinal microbiota and its vijay h. shah 1 division of gastroenterology and hepatology mayo clinic 200 first st sw rochester mn usa2 departamento de gastroenterologia escuela de medicina pontificia universidad catolica de chile santiago chilepossible hemodynamic and metabolic effects are needed.

intestinal bacteria can be critically influenced by environmental factors such as dietary modifications alcohol con- sumption or certain drugs proton pump inhibitors or probiotics among others  .

dysbiosis defined as the imbalance between protective and harmful bacteria and the alteration of intestinal barrier may also influence the degree of hepatic steatosis inflammation and fibrosis through multiple interactions with the host's immune system and other cell types .the term gut-liver axis has been coined to highlight the close anatomical and functional relationship between both organs.

although a highly specialized epithelial barrier regulates transport across the intestinal mucosa a wide variety of gut- derived antigens may reach the liver through the portal vein.

therefore the intestinal bar- rier the microbiota the liver and the immune system must establish complex interactions to maintain home- ostasis.

