there were no significant differences in firmicutes amounts between the passive water and activegrouptaxamaximumminimummedianinterquartilerangewater groups p  0.171 passive water and passive fos groups p  0.247 active water and active fos groups p  0.067 or active fos and passive fos groups p  0.329. however there was a significant difference between the median firmicutes counts for the passive water 103 and active fos groups 104 p  0.009.bacterial counts were also quantified for samples from the gi tracts of the litter sires n  4  and the dams of each treatment group and the buccal water dam with no litter n  5 .

these significant differences for bacteroides p-value 0.003 and bifidobacteriumgrouptaxamaximumminimummedianinterquartilerangep-value  0.006 median counts in the control and treatment samples were also evident at pnd21 despite a large difference in sample size control n  3 treatment n  14.wilcoxon rank sum tests found no significant difference between samples from the two control dams and samples from the treatment dams n  4. this lack of significance was maintained when the f3 dam who had no litter and received no treatment was included .discussionin this experiment we specifically focused on bifidobacterium firmicutes bacteroides and bacteroidetes phyla frequently studied in animal models due to their presence and hypothesized importance in the human gut.

wilcoxon rank sum tests were performed in rstudio version 0.98.1103 to compare variation in bifidobacterium bacteroides and bacteroidetes quantity in the combined totality of the treatment groups active fos passive fos active water and passive water versus the fecal pellet samples from non-handled mice housed in the same facility for both pup and dam samples.

all samples for the treatment dams contained 101 bifidobacterium.fecal pellet samplesfecal pellet samples from non-handled pups and dams were measured for bifidobacterium bacteroides bacteroidetes and firmicutes log10 cfu equivalentsng of dna as a control for pups for dams.

plates were run at 50c for 2 min 95c for 10 min and then 45 cycles of 95c for 15 s and 60c for 1 min.statistical analysisthe kruskal-wallis test was performed in rstudio version 0.98.1103 to compare variation in bifidobacterium firmicutes bacteroides and bacteroidetes quantity between treatment groups active fructooligosaccharide fos passive fos active water and passive water.

while the significant difference in firmicutes between the passive water pups and active fos pups suggests administration of fos was able to increase the amount of firmicutes all of the treatment groups still had a median amount 102-103 below the median amount of the control group.

all cages were clear plastic 10.5 inches by 6.5 inches by 5.0 inches.experimental manipulationsdams were randomly assigned to the following experimental groups passive water passive fructooligosaccharide fos active water active fos buccal water and buccal fos.

therefore while some variation may be expected due to differences in sample collection it is unlikely to reach the magnitude of difference between the median bifidobacteria from the control pups and the treatment pups.while non-exposure to bacteria is an unlikely explanation the stress of handlingcommon to all treatment groups may have contributed to the changes across the treatment group gut microbiota.

the statistically significant differences in quantities of bacteroides bacteroides and bifidobacterium between the control and treatment groups suggest a factor common to all four treatment groups may have affected these phyla of gut microbiota.lack of initial exposure to bifidobacterium bacteroides and bacteroidetes and differences between voided fecal pellets and gi tract fecal samples may explain the differences in bacterial quantities between our handled and non-handled animals however we think these are unlikely explanations.

since the sample sizes were very unequal for non-handled control n  7 versus treatment n  21 pups wilcoxon tests were also performed to compare the quantity of bifidobacterium bacteroides and bacteroidetes in the combinedtreatment groups against the fecal pellet samples from pups on pnd14 and pnd21.

wilcoxon rank sum tests demonstrated significant differences in the medians of the control and treatment samples for bacteroides control median 104iqr  101 treatment median 103 iqr  102 p-value  0.03 and bifidobacteriumcontrol median 102 iqr  101 treatment median  101 iqr  101 p-value 0.03 on pnd14 but a non-significant difference for bacteroidetes p-value  0.057 .

the wilcoxon rank sum test revealed significant differences between counts for all bacterial taxa bifidobacterium p value  0.001 bacteroidetes p value 0.008 bacteroides p value  0.001 in the treatment groups and bacterial counts for the fecal pellets collected from pups .comparisons by post-natal day also revealed significant differences between non- handled and handled pups.

there was a significant difference between the median amount of firmicutes in the pups provided water passively and the pups actively provided with fos.

while both the fos sires and dams appear to be lacking bifidobacteria one of the fos pups had the highest count of bifidobacteria in the treatment groups 101. therefore non-exposure to bifidobacteria is unlikely to explain our results.

b. infantis is capable of metabolizing hmo as a sole carbon source and b. infantis bifidobacterium longum and bifidobacterium breve affect stress and anxiety behaviors      .

