programmable transcriptional and post- transcriptional regulators coupled with improved mod- elling techniques to predict the effects of microbiome manipulations in situ will enable strategies to better con- trol engineered functions in complex communities and sustain enhanced n2o mitigation in fields.microbiome-based mitigation approaches should work in diverse environmental and climatic conditions with comparable or even better mitigation effects than con- ventional physicochemical approaches and should be economically competitive and socially responsible.

1. toolbox for currently used n2o mitigation strategies based on physicochemical and plant community technologies and emerging n2o mitigation strategies based on microbiome biotechnologies.1228 h.-w. hu j.-z.

2016 providing new means to innovate current mitigation tools by reducing agrochemicals inputs while maintaining soil health and mitigation performance under various conditions.

research priorities to achieve this vision are to characterize diverse microbiome components and their interactions inte- grate microbiome-based knowledge of n2o sourcesand sinks develop system-level approaches for micro- biome analysis and prediction optimize practical solu- tions to add to the climate change mitigation toolbox and apply microbiome-based mitigation tools with next- generation site-specific precision agriculture which can sustain enhanced food production while simultaneously decreasing n2o emissions box 1. this will require conceptual and technological advances in diverse fields of research including multi-omics techniques systems biology microbial ecology synthetic biology data analytics science and precision agriculture.

harnessing microbiome-based biotechnologies for sustainable mitigation of nitrous oxide emissionshang-wei hu1 ji-zheng he1 and brajesh k. singh231faculty of veterinary and agricultural sciences theuniversity of melbourne parkville vic 3010 australia.

2hawkesbury institute for the environment western sydney university penrith nsw 2751 australia.3global centre for land-based innovation westernsydney university penrith nsw 2751 australia.summaryachieving the sustainable development goal of cli- mate change mitigation within this century will require adoption of new innovative technologies to control emissions of nitrous oxide n2o an impor- tant greenhouse gas leading to global warming.

2015. as a consequence mitigation tools devel- oped and utilized are focused towards either manipula- tion of abundancestructureactivities of n2o-relevant microbiomes or reducing the amount of n resources available to microbial n2o formation hu et al.

microbial biotechnology published by john wiley  sons ltd and society for applied microbiology.this is an open access article under the terms of the license which permits use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.agrochemicals in particular has negative biological and environmental impacts resulting in the accumulation of undesired residues in fields and food loss of beneficial microbes and impacts on the evolutionary association between plant and soil microbiota singh and trivedi 2017.plant-based mitigation approaches are targeting at improving crop n-use efficiency thus reducing n acces- sible to microbiomes through plant breeding cultivar selection or genetic engineering techniques and utiliz- ing plant physiological traits such as plant-exuded nitrifi- cationdenitrification inhibitors or specialized signalling molecules for the selectioninhibition of a specific micro- biome that benefits reduced n2o formation and enhanced n2o reduction fig.

soil microbiomes for climate change mitigation.

microbial biotechnologies have shown great promise in improved n2o mitigation effects through the transplantation of foreign microbial cocktails denitri- fiers harbouring n2o reductase into ecologically com- petitive soil environments itakura et al.

2017 which might open up promising microbiome-engi- neering strategies that could improve n2o mitigation by utilizing naturally evolved microbiome communication channels.in situ microbiome-engineering approachesapart from mediating n2o productionreduction through harnessing signalling mechanisms it is becoming possi- ble to directly engineer the genomes and metabolicmicrobial biotechnology for n2o mitigation1229pathways of native microbiomes in a predictable manner fig.

2016. after introducing engi- neered mges into the environment we need significant advances in tools to reliably monitor the engineeringbox 1 research and innovation priorities to harness microbiomes to reduce n2o emissions.a core set of research priorities is outlined to specifically accelerate the integration and translation of new agricultural microbiome-manipulation approaches into practical n2o mitigation tools.

an integrative understanding of how microbiomes modulate n2o emissions as a whole will generate system-level knowledge that can greatly enhance our capacity to harness these microbiome components to optimize climate change mitigation tools.

big data analytics technologies.development of practical microbiome-based solutions to enhance climate change mitigation.

coordinated community efforts will be necessary to consolidate and rapidly translate new microbiome knowledge into practical solutions.combining microbiome-based climate change mitigation solutions with next-generation precision agriculture.

