the highly abundant fraction of the microbiome of all vegetables 1 abundance was dominated by proteobacteria 75 followed by bacteriodetes 19 and actinobacteria verrucomicrobia and firmicutes each with 2.the influence of plant genotype and processing pathway on the vegetable microbi- omes.

our results shed first light on the microbiome of edible plants and open the door to harnessing the brassica microbiome for plant disease resistance and human health.the plant microbiome has been intensively studied for more than a centurybut recently developed omics tech- nologies provide much deeper insights into the plant-associated microbial diversity.

the values indicating higher abundances of the taxa at the respective processing pathway are highlighted in bold.the microbiome of brassica vegetables as a source for myrosinase activity.

in the second step myrosinase activity of cell-free e. cloacae ks50 was demonstrated in triplicate i myrosinase activity of 2.343 u ml-1 in god-pod coupled enzyme assay ii growth on selective agar plates and iii myrosinase activity of 16.583 u ml-1 calculated by degraded sinigrin using hplc.

percentage distribution of the most abundant orders was highly similar for processing equivalents of each vegetable type.alpha-diversity metrices were used to observe differences in otu richness among the 14 vegetable sam- ples supplementary figure s1a.

a variety of taxa like pseudomonas klebsiella serratia agrobacterium azospirillum burkholderia and representatives of rhizobiaceae described for their plant beneficial effects were found in the vegetable sam- ples differences between the processing equivalents were not significant results not shown.table 1. significant differences in relative abundances between traditionally and industrially processed equivalents of each vegetable type.

among them s. plymuthica f20 was most fre- quent 96.74 followed by p. fragi w31 3.09 p. azotoformans ru40 0.13 p. protegens f37 0.03 and p. fluorescens f2 0.01. comparing vegetable genotypes horseradish showed the highest antagonistic potential 16.3 of sequences were assigned to verticillium-antagonistic isolates followed by cauliflower 12.9 broccolifigure 3. significant co-occurrence relationships among the brassica vegetable microbiomes.

strains which were able to suppress plant pathogens were isolated from naturally processed vegetables and represent a substantial part 4.1 of all vegetable microbiomes.

between-sample differences of the microbiota within traditionally tp and industrially ip processed vegetables purchased at a local farmers market and a supermarket respectively were analyzed to study relation- ships among the vegetable samples based on phylogenetic composition.

microbiomes derived from white cabbage cauliflower and broccoli clustered close together along all three coordinates separated from the remaining vegetables.a strong cultivar-specific impact of food processing on the microbiome was observed when the equivalents of each vegetable type were compared fig.

the dense part is except for bacteriodetes almost exclusively represented by otus assigned to taxa with low abundance in the vegetable core microbiome fig.

b microbiome variations derived from the vegetable genotype.

the myrosinase-active fraction of the microbiome suggested to afford chemo-protection for humans was investigated to evince poten- tial health promoting functions of the vegetable consumption.

special tasks in the vegetable microbiome might be attributed to isolated s. plymuthica f20 since the amount of sequences in the amplicon library was particularly high 42000 hits.

our results indicate the plant genotype to be the main driver of the microbiome composition of all plant parts and plant-associated bacteria to improve the health benefits of the vegetable consumption.

