twenty different bacteroides species were identified and the abundance of eight of them b. acidifaciens b. caccae b. fragilis b. massiliensis b. nordii b. salyersiae b. thetaiotaomicron b. uniformis was increased on day 4 compared to baseline supplementary fig.

recent stud- ies show that dietary interventions with polyphenol rich extracts and foods including dealcoholized red wine polyphenols cocoa-derived flavanols quercetin and grape anthocyanins modulate the human gut microbiota by decreasing the abundance of firmicutes and increasing bifidobacteria lactobacillus and verrucomicrobia- which is also a key difference in the gut microbiota found in obese and lean individuals .center for human nutrition david geffen school of medicine department of medicine university of california los angeles california ca usa.

urine mda was signifi- cantly decreased by 40 in 6-hour urine collected at day 4 compared to baseline urine p 0.01 and returned to baseline levels at day 17 fig.

products of fibercomplex carbohydrate metabolism are short chain fatty acids which have been shown to play an important role in the cardiovascular health benefits of fiber consumption.the only other human study investigating the effect of juice based diet on changes in the gut microbiota was published by remely et al.. they observed changes in the stool microbiome in participants following a traditional program in an austrian monastery including a small amount of cereal vegetable fruit and herbal tea.

a significant increase in the pro- portion of these bacteroides species b. ovatus b. acidifaciens and b. xylanisolvens was also observed in another human intervention study in individuals with metabolic syndrome who included the prebiotic resistant starch in their diet.

growing evidence is demonstrating the role of the microbiota in the health benefits of dietary fiber consumption.in the human intestine the gut microbiota is an important contributor to human health and has been impli- cated in the development of obesity and obesity-related diseases such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease-.

since the microbiota changes mostly returned to baseline levels it appears unlikely that changes in the well-being were related to the gut microbiota.

gut microbiota signatures predict host and microbiota responses to dietary interventions in obese individuals.

increased gut microbiota diversity and abundance of faecalibacterium prausnitzii and akkermansia after fasting a pilot study.

secondary outcomes of the study were to determine the effect of the 3-day juice based diet on change in weight and body composition and biomarkers of oxidation urine malondial- dehyde and vasodilation plasma and urine nitric oxide.resultsthirty participants were screened.

difference to baseline is indicated p 0.05.figure 2. effect of juice based diet on fecal microbiota phylum comparing baseline day 0 after the juice intervention day 4 and after two weeks of customary diet day 17. values are mean- sem n 20. difference to baseline is indicated by p 0.05.plasma antioxidant capacity and urine lipid peroxidation.

impact of dietary resistant starch type 4 on human gut microbiota and immunometabolic functions.

the distribution of 16s rdna genes at the phylum level was composed of firmicutes  bacteroidetes  proteobacteria  verrucomicrobia  actinobacteria 52 - 4 41 - 4 2.3 - 1 2.3 - 1 and 5 - 4 respectively.

both plasma and urine no were significantly increased 3-fold for plasma and 5-fold for urine at 4 days compared to baseline p 1.0e-06 fig.

urine malondialdehyde concentration was determined in form of thiobarbituric acid tba reactive substances by deproteinization and derivatization with tba according to the method of korchazhkina et al.. in brief 0.6 ml urine was mixed with 0.4 ml of water and 3 ml of h3po4 1vv and vortexed.

