Lille CNRS Inserm CHU Lille Institut Pasteur de Lille U1019 - UMR 8204 - CIIL - Center for Infection and Immunity of Lille F-59000 Lille France 2Biomedical Research Center Espoir pour la Sante BP 226 Saint-Louis Senegal 3Univ.

Lille CNRS Inserm CHU Lille Institut Pasteur de Lille U1019-UMR 8204-CIIL-Center for Infection and Immunity of Lille F-59000 Lille France.

Lille Inserm CHU Lille U995 - LIRIC - Lille Inflammation Research International Center F-59000 Lille FranceCorrespondence to Emmanuel Hermann.

However clinical design to improve growth might be detrimental since fat gain or catch-up growth can lead to amplify the risk for later obesity or diabetes.

Gut bacteria that prevent growth impairments transmitted by microbiota from malnourished children.

Numerous socio- economic and environmental insults including infections and feeding regime can interact in a framework in which growth of children could not be fully achieved.

By using these scores they have inferred that an unknown standard biological procedure governs the development of microbial colonization maturity over time in healthy newborns which was disrupted in acutely-malnourished children.The work published by Blanton et al in Science in February 2016 11 extends the issue of the co-development of microbial immaturity and child's undernutrition by addressing the biological effects involved in growth faltering.

They also demonstrated elegantly that when both groups of recipient mice were housed together coprophagic colonization of the microbial community harbored by the control mouse into the malnourished mouse residing in the same cage restored a normal growth phenotype in the later.

One of the main aspects pointed out by this work is the possibility to identify taxa that promote energy and metabolic input necessary for the optimal growth of children during the first 1000 days of life a critical window of therapeutic opportunity to influence child's development and prevent risk of diseases.

Therefore an approach integrating maternal and newborn care for growth outcome by focusing also on microbiota emanating from mothers should also be of great interest in the field of microbiota-therapy.

