statistical significance was set at a value of p  0.05.resultsclinical data of the asthmatic group are shown in symptoms suggestive of gastro-oesophageal reflux were sig- nificantly more frequent among asthmatics 25.55 whenbetween h. pylori igg levels and crowding index among asthmatics compared to healthy control 8.90 p  0.006. our data reported higher median level of serum ige in asthmat- ics 69.74 iul compared to healthy controls 30.70 iul p  0.001. h. pylori igg seropositivity were found in 2390 25.6 of asthmatic cases compared to 4090 44.4 of controls with a high significant difference between the two groups p  0.008. medians iq of h. pylori igg were 19.6 uml 15---57.8 and 34 uml 20.8---89.6 p  0.001 inasthmatics and healthy controls respectively.

moreover when we compared between asthmatics regarding h. pylori igg seropositivity we detected higher titres among low social class children p  0.001 high environmental tobacco smok- ing exposure p  0.018 and lower ige levels p  0.007 as well as less antibiotic intake among h. pylori igg seropos- itive asthmatics 78.26 in comparison with seronegative ones 95.5 p  0.038 however the study did not report significant statistical differences between h. pylori igg seropositive and seronegative asthmatics as regards age sex breastfeeding duration and timing of wean- ing p  0.005. we found a significant positive associationdiscussionh.

it affects the human gut microbiota --- including h. pylori --- with disturbance of the immune system.several studies included the number of courses of antibiotics in their analysis the highest risk for asthmawheezing was found in children exposed to more than four courses of antibiotics in the first year of life.interestingly the relation between h. pylori serum igg titre and asthma severity revealed a statistical significant inverse relationship between h. pylori serum igg titre andasthma severity.

pylori may be of importance in the induction of regu- latory t cells which could effectively reduce the possibility of allergic asthma.inverse associations between h. pylori especially caga strains with asthma and related allergic disorders were reported especially involving younger indi- viduals and with early life disease onset.therefore we conducted this study to assess frequency of h. pylori seropositivity among asthmatic children com- pared to healthy controls.

thus these findings represent further evidence for the role of infection with h. pylori in the pathogenesis of asthma.previous studies about the association between h. pylori status and asthma risk generate conflicting findings.these studies were conducted in adults mostly small-scale and additionally did not address the modifying roles of age.

sim- ilarly zevit et al.found an inverse association of h. pylori with asthma especially early-onset asthma.environmental tobacco smoke ets exposure among chil- dren carries a lot of hazards it affects the immune system and predisposes to asthma and the gut microbiota and increases the risk of h. pylori infection.

in addition smoking increases mucus production as much as seven-fold decrease ciliary movement beat fre- quency and transport increase white blood cells production mainly eosinophils and increase mucosal permeability to allergens.as socioeconomic status plays an important role in h. pylori infectioncurrent data documented higher fre- quency of seropositive h. pylori igg asthmatics among low social class compared to high social class.

data which reported more distribution of asthmatics among high social class 66.70 and more distribution of h. pylori igg seropositive asth- matics among low social class 86.95. similarly among egyptian children h. pylori prevalence was highest in chil- dren attending school in socially-deprived areas.two studies explained the observations that devel- oped countries show higher prevalence of asthma than developing countries according to the ''hygiene hypothe- sis'' which postulates that childhood development in an overly hygienic environment reduces microbial exposure and promotes atopic immune responses and the risk of asthma.

in addi- tion another explanation for ''hygiene hypothesis'' is the ''antigenic competition'' which states that the develop- ment of strong immune responses against antigens from microbial agents could inhibit responses to 'weak' antigens such as auto-antigens and allergens.owing to the role of household crowding in h. pylori infection the current results found that crowding index was higher among h. pylori igg seropositive asthmat- ics compared to seronegative ones.

studies about the role and duration of breastfeeding in h. pylori infec- tion were variable pearce et al.reported that increased duration of exclusive breastfeeding in infancy may have a long-term protective effect against chronic h. pylori infection this could be due to maternal antibodies the lactoferrin and other protective factors in the human milk.

moreover regulatory cytokine il-10 and cd103cd11b- dendritic cells are necessary to successfully protect against asthma in h. pylori-infected mice.in conclusion h. pylori seropositivity protects against childhood asthma and inversely correlates to its clinical and functional severity.financial supportnone.conflict of interestnone.ethical disclosuresconfidentiality of data.

h. pylori is a bacterium which colonises the gastric mucosa of approximately half the world's pop- ulation and is a main cause of peptic ulcer disease and gastric adenocarcinoma.

the relation between h. pylori igg seropositivity in asthma clinical and functional severity was also studied.methodsstudy populationthis cross-sectional study was performed during the period from march 2014 till december 2015. ninety asthmatic children 52 boys 38 girls aged 1---17 years mean sd7.05 3.58 years were randomly recruited from the paedi- atric chest clinic children's hospital ain shams university.

by comparing asthma subgroups subdivided according to asthma severity we found statistical decrease in median h. pylori igg titre with increase asthma severity p  0.042 envi- ronmental tobacco smoking exposure etse was higher among asthmatics 64.40 compared to healthy controls 35.55 p  0.001. our study found that in the first year of life there was a statistically significant higher antibiotic intake among asthmatics in comparison to healthy con- trols p  0.001 with 90 of asthmatic children exposed to more than four courses of antibiotics.

these results demonstrated a significant negative associa- tion between h. pylori infection and asthma.

