the results showed a clear difference in microbiota composition between the two groups of recipient mice at the genus level as evidenced by an increase in bacteroides and decrease in clostridum and lactobacillus in mice colonized with microbiota from helminth-infected donors figure 2a and b. a clear distinction in the relative abundance of the most dominant species in the recipient mice was also detected between mice that were colonized with control microbiota and microbiota from helminth-infected mice figure 2c.

f. relative abundance of the top 10 genera in each samplesu et al.page 17showed high similarity in the gut microbiota of helminth-infected mice with and without deworming treatment.su et al.page 18figure 2. colonization of recipient mice with microbiota from h. polygyrus-infected or control mice reproduces the microbial composition of the donorthe results are 16s rrna gene sequence data from fecal pellets of recipient mice that are colonized with microbiota from control cont-f and h. polygyrus-infected hp-f donor mice.

e f and g. qpcr analysis of fecal bacteroides sfb and lactobacillus level in donor mice normal and h. polygyrus- infected mice and in the recipient mice that are colonized with cont-f and hp-f.su et al.page 19figure 3. colonization of mice with microbiota from h. polygyrus-infected mice results in exacerbated c .rodentium infectiona.

our results are consistent with another studysu et al.page 9that showed increased abundance of the bacteroidesprevotella group in h. polygyrus infected c57bl6 mice 42. however our results showing a decrease in lactobacillaceae in balbc mice contrast with a study indicating that h. polygyrus infection increased the abundance of lactobacillaceae in c57bl6 mice 25. this discrepancy may be related to differences in model system host genetic background particularly since c57bl6 mice are more susceptible to h. polygyrus 43 or the type of sample analyzed.how exactly worm infection influences microbiota composition remains to be investigated.

the protocol was approved by the sub- committee on research animal care of massachusetts general hospital animal welfare assurance number a3596-01.antibiotic treatment and microbiota transfer protocolbalbc recipient mice were pretreated with a cocktail of antibiotics kanamycin 0.4 mgml gentamicin 0.035 mgml colistin 850 uml metronidazole 0.215 mgml vancomycin0.045 mgml sigma aldrich st. louis mo in drinking water for 1 week 28. one weekafter antibiotic treatment recipient mice were gavaged 3 times a week with a fecal slurry of stool pellets and cecal contents from the control control-microbiota or h. polygyrus- infected hp-microbiota donor mice.

e. fecal c. rodentium output in mice colonized with microbiota from uninfected control or h. polygyrus-infected stat 6 ko mice stat6ko hp-f. f. body weight changes of mice colonized with stat6ko-f or stat6ko hp-f with and without c. rodentium infection.

g h and i qpcr analysis of fecal bacteroides sfb and lactobacillus level in stat 6 ko mice with and without h. polygyrus-infection.su et al.page 20figure 4. colonization of mice with microbiota from h. polygyrus-infected mice exacerbates c. rodentium-induced colitisa.

p  0.05.su et al.page 23figure 6. colonization of mice with microbiota from helminth infected donor mice results in down-regulation of c. rodentium-induced colonic anti-microbial responsescolon tissues were collected from mice colonized with cont-f and hp-f with and withoutc.

polygyrus infection significantly alters micobiome composition in balbc micewe recently showed that h. polygyrus infection worsened the course of a concurrent infection with c. rodentium with significantly increased and prolonged bacterial output 11 22 26. to determine whether this effect might be caused by helminth-inducedalterations in the gut microbiota we used bacterial 16s rrna gene sequencing to compare the stool microbiome composition of control and helminth-infected mice in two independent experiments consisting of 3 mice per group.

our next set of experiments directly tested the impact of the worms on the gut microbiota by deworming some of the infected mice using ourpublished methods which can effectively clear the worms 27 and comparing the gutmicrobiome composition of helminth-infected mice with and without worm present in the gut.

balbc mice whose gut flora had been depleted by means of a previously reported antibiotic regimen 28 were colonized with microbiota mixture of cecal colonic and fecal contents from either control or h. polygyrus-infected mice.

the recipient mice received 3 microbiota transfers over the course of a week.we first confirmed that the microbiota of the recipient mice reproduced the gut flora of their donors.

to determine the role of the helminth-induced th2 response in modifying the microbiota we infected th2-deficient stat 6 ko mice with h. polygyrus collected the microbiota from both infected and uninfected stat 6 ko donors and transferred to the antibiotic-pretreated wild-type recipient mice which were then infected with c. rodentium.

the cd4cd25 cell population was effectively depleted as evidenced by our facs analysis of the mln data not shown.the cd4cd25 cell depletion and il-10 neutralization did not affect fecal citrobacter output in mice that were colonized with control microbiota figure 8a but it significantly reduced fecal citrobacter output in mice that were colonized with microbiota from helminth- infected donors figure 8b.

c. relative abundance of the top 15 species in each sample from the recipient mice that were colonized with hp-f and cont-f. d. the relative abundance of the top 10 genera in each sample from the hp-f- colonized recipient mice and from helminth-infected donor hp.

