along with methanotrophic bacteria supplementary results in the deep biofilms suggest a much larger potential for methane cycling in the deep communities.in summer the deep communities were in contact with well oxygenated water at the time of sampling however oxygen profiles indicated near-zero oxygen concentrations 2.9 of air equilibrium overlying the biofilms in spring supplementary fig.

s4 consistent with the global distribution of cold-dwelling ecotypes of cyanobacteria.similar to antarctic lake communitiespotentially nitrogen-fixingcyanobacteria of the order nostocales were rare in the deep biofilms 0.01  of bacterial reads but abundant in the moat communities 6.2  supplementary fig.

as a resultof this taxonomic distribution the picrust analysis of the cdna reads predicted a greater percentage of the nitrogenase nifh gene in the moat microbiome supplementary table s3.eukaryote and bacteria otu chao1 richness estimates for the deep mat microbiome were high relative to the moat biofilms fig.

compared to the moat biofilms there were more bacterial taxa normally associated with anaerobic conditions in the deep biofilms including sulfate-reducing delta-proteobacteria chloro- flexi ws3 gn04 spirochaetes clostridia denitrifying genus thiobacillus supplementary fig.

asterisks indicate significant differences between deep vs. moat samples t-test p  0.05. the pcoa and taxonomic results shown are for the rrna analysis rdna results are given in supplementary fig.

a location of ward hunt lake red star relative to the north pole white cross the base map is the international bathymetric chart of the arctic ocean ibcao of the intergovernmental oceanographic commission ioc version 3.0 released in the public domain on 8 june 2012b ward hunt lake in mid-july 2015 showing the littoral open water zone moat and multi- year ice over the deeper waters of the lake c shallow biofilm over the rocks in the moat zone d sample of the deep biofilm in a mini-glew sediment core 38 mm diameter from 10 m depth and e schematic diagram of the biofilm color zonation description in supplementary resultsthe rdna otus supplementary table s2.

in 2014 an extensive benthic biofilm was discovered in this deep perennially ice-covered zone of whl supplementaryvideo 1 and was sampled the following year.we hypothesized that the deep biofilm communities of whl would have a lower alpha-diversity than the moat biofilms because they would be dominated by microbial specialists that were adapted to a low solar energy regime caused by the thick perennial ice combined with low nutrient conditions in this oligotrophic lake.

we found a high proportion of active otus in both communities with the rrna otus accounting for 72-88  of1departement de biologie  centre d'etudes nordiques cen universite laval quebec qc g1v 0a6 canada 2departement de biochimie de microbiologie et de bio- informatique  centre d'etudes nordiques cen universite laval quebec qc g1v 0a6 canada 3institut de biologie integrative et des systemes ibis universite laval quebec qc g1v 0a6 canada 4takuvik unite mixte internationale umi 3376 universite laval canada  centre national de la recherche scientifique france quebec qc giv 0a6 canada and 5centre eau terre environnement institut national de la recherche scientifique inrs centre d'etudes nordiques cen quebec qc g1k 9a9 canada correspondence warwick f. vincent received 5 march 2017 revised 7 june 2017 accepted 9 june 2017microbiomes in the changing arcticv mohit et al.2a180degb90degwx0degcde005 mm102030fig.

this analysis of the whl deep microbiome revealed a phylogenetic composition that differed markedly from the moat biofilms fig.

cyanobacteria were the most abundant bacteria in both deep and moat communities in whl fig.

and supplementary fig.

s1 and net relatedness indices supplementary fig.

but differences in the cyanobacterial assemblages were observed between the two habitats supplementary fig.

leptolyngbya supplementary fig.

at a finer taxonomic scale many of the abundant otus were found to be closely related to antarctic cyanobacteria supplementary fig.

