a. only 211 paired normal tissues that were positive for b. fragilis had tumors that were below the cut-off value while similarly 315 paired normal tissues that were positive for homd had tumors below the homd cut-off value.

heterogeneity analysis includes estimates of i2 percentage of variation reflecting true heterogeneity t2 random-effects between study variance and p-value from cochran's q test for heterogeneitythan the percentages observed for paired normals and tumors for each feature by fisher's exact test healthy biopsy vs. paired normal p  0.0001 for biofilms p  0.01 for homd p  0.01 for b. fragilis healthy biopsy vs. tumor p  0.0001 for all three features.

a. while a similar percentage of paired normals were biofilm positive 44 p  0.721 by fisher's exact test compared to tumors the prevalence of homd and b. fragilis in paired normal tissues was approximately half of that found in tumors significantly so for homd homd 24 vs. 48 p  0.009 b. fragilis 17 vs. 38 p 0.254 respectively fig.

as previously reported for the usa cohort the biofilm status of paired normal tissues from mal1 and mal2 largely matched the biofilm status of the tumors from the same individual and therefore were called concordant pairs only 221 mal1 and 323 mal2 patients had discordant biofilm scores between their tumor and normal tissues all 5 of which were cases in which the tumor was biofilm positive but the paired normal tissue was negative.

s5.the above analysis was then expanded to include all available 16s rrna gene sequencing data sets on crc samples including two additional studies involving crc versus healthy biopsy samples five studies on crc versus paired normal tis- sueand four stool-based studies.in total eight data sets were analyzed for differences between crc and healthy biopsies andor stool and eight data sets were analyzed for differences between crc and paired normal tissue.

f. nucleatum has gained increasing notoriety in recent years as a potential pathogen in a number of clinical diseases including gastro-intestinal disorders cardiovascular disease adverse pregnancy outcomes respiratory tract infections and oropharyngeal infections where it was firstdiscovered.mechanistically f. nucleatum is a ubiquitous oral bacterium that is both highly adherent and invasive a property attributed to virulence proteins including the adhesion and invasion protein fada and the galactose-inhibitable adhesion protein fap2.-more recently secreted or surface fada was found to bind to e-cadherin and induce wntb-catenin signaling in the colons of mice where f. nucleatum accelerated tumorigen- esis.immune mechanisms including myeloid cell infiltration the balance between foxp3hi and foxp3lo treg populations and checkpoint molecule tigit blockade may modulate f. nucleatum- associated carcinogenesis.-however fusobacterium are enriched in only a subset of tumors and are present at a much lower abundance in paired normal tissue.-similarly enrichment of fusobacterium in biofilms occurs in only a subset of tumors and is often undetectable in paired normal tissuesfindings that our additional cohort of malaysian patients and meta-analyses upheld.

importantly the enrichment of b. fragilis was paralleled by depletion of several other bacteroides members which is consistent with reports by others of an overall loss of phylum bacteroidetesand more specifically the genus bacteroides.the selective enrichment of b. fragilis may therefore suggest a growth advantage of b. fragilis over other bacteroides species during tumorigenesis and further highlights the importance of species- level resolution.our meta-analysis also revealed a robust enrichment of f. nucleatum and other oral species in crc compared to both paired normal and healthy biopsy tissues.

microbiome profiling with 16s rrna gene sequencing was applied to tumor crc and paired normal tissues normal from crc patients for all three cohorts as well as healthy biopsies healthy bx for usa and mal1.

for usa and mal1 crc samples were compared to both paired normal as well as healthy biopsies whereas for mal2 only crc and paired normal tissues were examined fig.

high-throughput next-generation sequencing of the v3-v4 hypervariable region of the 16s rrna gene was performed using 319 f 5'-actcctacgggaggcagcag-3' and 806 r 5'-ggactachvgggtwtctaat-3' universal primers containing a linker sequence required for illumina miseq 300 bp paired-end sequencing and a 12-bp heterogeneity-spacer index sequence.for the mal2 cohort a total of 46 samples including paired tumor normal colon tissue samples from 19 crc patients two unpaired tumors from crc patients and biological replicates of three mal1 paired tumor normal samples were evaluated.

in contrast to the tumors paired normal tissue contained mostly single features 51 single 17 two and 0 three features with the majority of those harboring more than one feature also having tumors with more than one feature 811. the healthy biopsies contained only single features 6 biofilm only 3 homd only and were otherwise absent of any dysbiosis 91 no features.

samples were screened in a randomized blinded fashion.16s rrna gene illumina library generation and sequencingfor the mal1 cohort a total of 54 samples were evaluated for sequencing including paired left-right biopsies from six healthy patients paired tumor normal samples from 20 crc patients and an additional two unpaired tumors from two crc patients.

conversely several bacteroides species b.vulgatus b. dorei and b. stercoris as well as faecalibacterium prausnitzii were consistently depleted in crc compared to healthy biopsies and paired normal tissues supplementary fig.

we defined enrichment of b. fragilis as tumors with b. fragilis relative abundance 2 of overall sequences and enrichment of homd as tumors having homd bacteria present at 10 of overall sequences these cut off points excluded 90 of healthy biopsies.

b. when tumors were analyzed according to their anatomical location right-sided tumors not unexpectedly displayed more biofilm-related categories while the predominant phenotype of left-sided tumors reflected the co- occurrence of b. fragilis and homd supplementary fig.

