In comparing fungal microbiomes of mice and their corresponding chows we observed that 80 of fungal taxa in mice fed the standard diet were not present in the standard chow and 90 of fungal taxa in mice fed the high-fat diet were not present in the high-fat chow.

Overall the results of this study provide evidence that fungi and interkingdom interactions are disrupted by high-fat diet thus supporting the inclusion of fungal community analyses in studies that seek to discover new connections between intestinal microbiomes and metabolic health.RESULTSMice fed a high-fat diet harbor gut fungal and bacterial communities that differ from those in mice fed standard chow.

In addition we find that interking- dom structural and functional relationships exist between fungi and bacteria within the gut and that these are perturbed by high-fat diet.KEYWORDS fungal-bacterial interactions fungi high-fat diet microbiome obesitymerging evidence demonstrates that diet both independently and in conjunction with body composition modulates gut microbial community structure  .

Comparison of taxonomic count data and KEGG modules between fecal samples collected from mice on a high-fat diet and those collected from mice on a normal diet was performed using the Mann-Whitney U test with false discovery rate FDR correction for multiple testing.

Mice fed a high-fat diet had significantly different abundances of 19 bacterial and 6 fun- gal taxa than did mice fed standard chow with high-fat diet causing similar magni- tudes of change in overall fungal and bacterial microbiome structures.

In our study mice fed a high-fat diet had increased relative abundance of the fungus Aspergillus terreus a fungus that produces the cholesterol- reducing agent lovastatin  and this correlated with increases in bacterial genes involved in carbon energy metabolism methanogenesis acetyl-CoA synthesis and reductive acetyl-CoA pathways implying a compensatory response to exposure to high-fat diet.

S9.DISCUSSIONIn this study ingestion of a high-fat diet by mice resulted in major shifts in both gut bacterial and gut fungal community structures.

saturated versus unsat- urated that are more typically consumed by human populations.In lean mice fed a standard chow we observed that the fungal species S. cerevisiae was significantly more abundant than in obese mice fed a high-fat diet.

These results along with the results that we report here support the idea that gut fungal communities could contribute to metabolic health.The high-fat diet provided to the mice in this study contained 60 calories from fat compared to 18 for standard chow.

In a recent study rats receiving A. terreus as a dietary supplement along with a high-fat diet had reduced hepatic steatosis compared to those fed a high-fat diet alone  further supporting a role for A. terreus in modulation of metabolism.

