Five proteins cytidylate kinase trigger factor 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase transporter and undecaprenyl-diphosphatase had a higher abundance in the high-salt diet group than those in the low-salt group while two proteins acetylglutamate kinase and PBSX phage manganese-containing catalase were over-expressed in the low-salt diet group than in the high-salt group.

In colon contents 17 microbial proteins were common in the low- and the high-salt diet groups.Five proteins had a higher abundance in the high-salt diet group than those in the LSD group Supplementary Table S3 including cytidylate kinase trigger factor 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase transporter and undecaprenyl-diphosphatase which were secreted by different gut bacteria including Atopobium parvulum Anaerococcus prevotii Lactobacillus brevis Anaerostipes hadrus and Streptococcus agalactiae.

After feeding for 8 weeks Faecalibaculum became the predominant genus 30.18 and followed by Bacteroidales S24-7 group 26.86 Rikenellaceae RC9 gut group 7.31 Lachnospiraceae 4.86 Ruminococcaceae 3.79 and Lachnospiraceae NK4A136 group 3.66.

In the BLSD group Bacteroidales S24-7 group was the most abundant 18.84 and followed by Faecalibaculum 12.90 Bifidobacterium 9.62 Erysipelotrichaceae 9.14 Akkermansia 8.46 and Rikenellaceae RC9 gut group 4.28.

HSD high-salt diet group after feeding LSD low-salt diet group after feeding.The results suggested that the high-salt diet may have an inhibitory effect on pancreatic secretion by inhibiting the secretion of trypsin thus leading to lower protein digestion and absorption efficiency compared to the LSD groups.

However less has been known about alterations in gut microbiota protein digestion and absorption in response to a high-salt diet.The purpose of this study was to demonstrate how a high-salt diet affected the composition of gut microbiota and the extent of protein digestion and absorption.

Bacteroidales S24-7 group was a predominant genus in each group which had the highest abundance 45.40 and was followed by LachnospiraceaeNK4A136 group 8.47 Lactobacillus 6.95 Alistipes4.76 Ruminococcaceae UCG-014 4.20 and Akkermansia 3.46.

After 2 weeks adaptation the mice were randomly assigned to a high-salt diet group or a low-salt diet group.

Bacterial OTUs rich in the low-salt diet group green bars and the high-salt diet group red bars.

In other words the high-salt diet might cause the reduction in gut microbial diversity.Hierarchical clustering analysis of fecal bacteria on the OTU level declared that the low-salt diet group showed a great intra-group variation among samples .

