It revealed that many commensal organisms in grass carp including three species of Lactococcus L. raffinolactis L. lactis and L. garvieae as well as many members of Streptococcus Bacillus Lactobacillus and Enterococcus are potential probiotics in grass carp as they are closely related to the known strains used in microecologics and consistent with other characterized probiotics .Interestingly all the predicted bacterial species belong to the class Bacilli.

However in order to evaluate the utility for potential probiotics in grass carp according to close relations between known probiotics and these putative AMP-producing bacteria we constructed a phylogenetic tree Figure  using microbiota from annotated top abundant species in class Bacilli top bacterial hits in the NCBI by searching from our predicted AMP sequences and those commonly-used commercial probiotics in microecologics.Three Lactococcus spp.

Our present strategy to identify the potential AMPs in fish GI microbiota is an alternative way to overcome the deficiency of antibiotics.In this study we identified five AMPs pediocin lactococcin 972 subtilosin A and aureocin-like bacteriocins in the GI of grass carp.

In summary based on our phylogenetic tree Figure  we speculate that these bacteria closely related to some known probiotics are promising candidates for novel AMPs or applicable probiotics in the grass carp such as L. garvieae S. agalactiae G. morbillorum and L. sakei.

Meanwhile since antibiotic abuse in aquaculture has caused many problems such as pathogen resistance and food contamination we are trying to screen new bacterial species with a high efficacy of AMP production as potential probiotics to combat aquatic pathogens.In this research we sequenced the whole metagenome of the GI microbiota in grass carp and a high-throughput homologous search was performed to predict AMPs.

Commercial probiotics are green top abundant bacteria of class Bacilli in grass carp GI are red and the putative strains producing our predicted AMPs are blue.DiscussionIn commercial aquaculture the stressful conditions fish are exposed to usually result in a decrease in production and increase the risk of infectious diseases.

These AMPs synthesized in the ribosomes of bacteria are also called bacteriocins which normally present antibacterial activity towards closely-related strains although it has been reported that a broad range of antimicrobial activity occurs in some bacteriocins .

An alternative way for applying bacteriocins is to deliver some AMP-producing microbiota directly through prophylactic administration of probiotics as long as they can stably survive in the intestine and maintain physiological homeostasis.The rapid advancement of next-generation sequencing NGS has accelerated our pace of identifying novel probiotics in fish GI.

In addition the phylogenetic relationship of some genera in grass carp GI microbiota putative AMP-producing strains and commonly used probiotics for microecologics were described.

Exploiting antimicrobial-producing resources to shape the host-associated microbiota along with high-throughput sequencing may elucidate the roles of different strains for host defense.This is the first big-data-based study looking for AMPs and AMP-producing bacteria in the GI metagenome of grass carp.

