no significant differences in the structure of kogiid gut microbiomes were detected based on sex anosim p  0.18 or carcass condition p  0.36 table .the high degree of host-specificity exhibited by kogiid gut microbiomes was also observed across more dis-tantly related host species including other toothed whales and baleen whales as cluster plots based on microbial community similarity grouped all individuals by host species fig.

as such kogiid whales appear to represent a more fertile microbial habitat compared to other toothed whale species possibly related to the unique colonic sac that enlarges the large intestine of kogiid whales e.g.

despite these shared dominant phyla several bacterial phyla distinguished kogiid micro- biomes from those in baleen whales actinobacteria and synergistetes were common in kogiid hosts 6-15 and 2-4 respectively while rare in baleen hosts 2 and 0.2 respectively while spirochaetes were common members of baleen whale microbiomes 3-8 and extremely rare in kogiid hosts 0.03.diversity of cetacean gut microbiomes.

error bars represent -1 standard deviation.in these two kogiid hosts was comprised of 115 otus that accounted for most of the sequence reads recovered from k. breviceps 95.6 and k. sima 94.0 table .the 25 most common otus in kogiid microbiomes were examined in further detail to compare their rel- ative abundances between kogiid hosts and presence in the microbiomes of other toothed and baleen whales table .

broader comparisons of diversity including previously characterized cetacean gut microbiomes revealed that kogiid whales hosted microbial com- munities with significantly p  0.05 higher diversity than those occurring in other toothed whales bottlenose dolphins  52 - 18 otus beluga whales  84 - 8 post hoc tukey's hsd tests fig.

as a result distinct microbial community structure was detected between kogiid species as well as among kogiid microbial communities and previously characterized gut microbiomes of other toothed and baleen whales.

in total five phyla exhibited differential abundances between hosts including significantly p  0.05 higher relative abundances of bacteroidetes verrucomicrobia and lentisphaerae in k. breviceps and actinobacteria and cyanobacteria in k. sima table .comparative analysis with other toothed and baleen whale species revealed that the dominance of the bacterial phyla firmicutes and bacteroidetes in kogiid microbiomes was more characteristic of baleen whales than those of other toothed whales fig.

the vast majority 84 to 91 of the gut microbiomes in baleen whale hosts hump- back whales right whales and sei whales were comprised of firmicutes and bacteroidetes whereas non-kogiid toothed whale hosts were dominated by proteobacteria 60 in bottlenose dolphins and actinobacteria 66 in beluga whales fig.

for comparative analyses previously characterized cetacean gut microbiome datasets were downloaded for bottlenose dolphins tursiops truncatus beluga whales delphinapterus leucas hump- back whales megaptera novaeangliae right whales eubalaena glacialis and sei whales balaenoptera borealis table .

for example the most abundant otu in both kogiid hosts otu1 was unique to kogiid microbiomes unclassified below the phylum level bacteroidetes and exhibited over 9 sequence divergence from the most closely related bacterium a symbiont characterized from elephant elephas maximus feces table .the few symbiont otus shared between gut communities of kogiid and other cetacean hosts were generally in very low abundance in one or both hosts with notable exceptions.

kogiid gut microbiomes exhibited unique structure and composition and a high-degree of host-specificity thus highlighting the importance of host identity in structuring cetacean microbiomes.the diversity of gut microbial communities in kogiid whales was unexpectedly high as previous investiga- tions of toothed whale gut microbiomes revealed low levels of phylum- and otu-level diversity.

our objectives were to provide the first characterization of kogiid gut microbiomes and to determine their host-specificity by comparing microbiome diversity and structure between kogiid species and across other toothed odontocete and baleen mysticete whale hosts.

firmicutes otu8 were common in k. breviceps 3.8 and 2.6 respectively and k. sima 1.3 and 1.0 with the former symbiont a dominant member of beluga whale microbiomes 65.3 and the latter symbiont a domi- nant member of humpback whale microbiomes 14.5.discussioncharacterization of gut microbiomes in pygmy k. breviceps and dwarf k. sima sperm whales revealed diverse and host-specific microbial communities inhabiting kogiid whales.

current species-level resolution of kogiid whales recognizes two species based on mor- phology and molecular evidence- although at-sea identification remains challenging.

similarly a single otu dominated the microbial communities of bottlenose dolphins 67 and beluga whales 74 while the most abundant otu accounted for less than a quarter of the microbiome in k. breviceps 23 and k. sima 15. in contrast kogiid gut microbiomes did not differ significantly in richness diversity and dominance compared to the gut microbial communities inhabiting three baleen whale species post hoc tukey's hsd tests fig.

