to evaluate whether longitudinal levels of the top diversity metabolite pre- dicted mets status we ran independent linear regression models each for shannon diversity the metabolite trend determined using empirical bayes predictions as above the diet score and metabolitediet-associated otus taxa to predict mets status adjusting for age sex and family relatedness.longitudinal metabolite association with mets mediated by shannon diversity the diet score and specific taxa.

neuroglobin expressed in neurons and some endocrine tissues acts to protect cells against hypoxia and oxidative stress.overall increased abundances otustaxa of the actinomycetaceae family and the genera eubacterium and ruminococcus were associated with reduced hippurate and the diet and increased mets risk and increased abun- dances of otus of the order clostridiales and the species faecalibacterium prausnitzii were associated with increased hippurate and diet score and reduced mets risk.the actinomycetaceae family are typical commensals present within the oral cavity.

shannon diversity the diet score and metabolite- and diet-associated otustaxa were investigated for their association with mets status cross-sectionally.abbreviations mets metabolic syndrome na not applicable.related metabolites and be affected by diet.

abbreviations mets metabolic syndrome otu operational taxonomic unit na not applicable.cross-sectionally 0.2080.081 p  0.013 and longitudinally 0.4780.078 p  9.53 x 10-8 and associations for top variables were in the same direction as in the much larger whole group analysis supplementary table  except for hdl-cholesterol.discussionhere we have identified hippurate through its relationship with microbiome diversity as a potential modulator of mets independently of diet.

openreceived 18 may 2017accepted 25 september 2017 published xx xx xxxxhippurate as a metabolomic marker of gut microbiome diversity modulation by diet and relationship to metabolic syndrometess pallister1 matthew a. jackson 1 tiphaine c. martin1 jonas zierer 12 amy jennings3 robert p. mohney4 alexander macgregor3 claire j. steves1 aedin cassidy3 tim d. spector1  cristina menni1reduced gut microbiome diversity is associated with multiple disorders including metabolic syndrome mets features though metabolomic markers have not been investigated.

many of the above metabolites are food-derived therefore merging microbiome and metabolomics approaches with studies which capture habitual intake is the logical next step for improving our understanding of the complex interplay between diet the microbiome and metabolic disease.to date there are relatively few short-term human dietary intervention studies incorporating the microbiome and metabolome.

a shows the associations between mets with shannon diversity the hippurate trend and otustaxa significantly associated with hippurate the diet score and mets represented as betas with ses all variables have been standardized.

the aim of this analysis was to determine how much of the variance in the metabolite trend and mets was accounted for by the mets association with shannon diversity the diet score or specific otustaxa.

in the second part the relationship between longitudinal levels of the diversity metabolite marker diet diversity and associated otustaxa with the risk of mets was explored.part 1 metabolomics associations with diversity relationship to food intake and associations with microbiome otustaxa.

the hippurate diet score was mod- erately heritable a 0.3782 0.3024 0.4485 e 0.6218 0.5515 0.6976. we confirmed the same directional effects for other diversity metrics for hippurate and the diet score supplementary table .otu and collapsed taxa associations with hippurate.

though higher abundances of one clostridiales otu were associated with increased coffee intake.relationship of diversity the hippurate trend and diet to mets and its components.

longitudinal hippurate trajectories were significantly associated with shannon diversity independently of diet and covariates in a subsample of 1032 individuals 15.7361.96 p  4.95 x 10-15 moreover the hippurate trend accounted for 6.5 of the variance in shannon diversity.figure shows the results of the analysis for associations between diversity the hippurate trend and mets.

61.1 of the effect of the hippurate trend on mets was accounted for by the association between shannon diversity and mets.

five collapsed taxa and 3 of the otus that were associated with both diet and hippurate were associated with mets including the actinomycetaceae family and actinomycetales order and actinomyces genus within actinomycetaceae the eubacterium and ruminococcus genera plus one otu which were positively associated and otus assigned to the order clostridiales and faecalibacterium prausnitzii that were inversely associated.

the percentage variance in the metabolite trend and mets that was accounted for by the mets association with these associated otustaxa is shown in fig.

