the gut microbiota directly inhibits the growth andor colonization of incoming pathogens by competing for limited nutrients and occupying the potential intestinal habitat 4. furthermore the resident gut microbiota protects the host against pathogen coloni- zation through its involvement in mucus production enhancement of epithelial cell barrier function the release of antimicrobial peptides and the production of immunoglobulins 56. likewise metabolites generated by the gut microbiota are essential for the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis 7. short-chain fatty acids scfas the end products of anaerobic bacterial fermentation of dietary fiber regulate anti-inflammatory immune re- sponses and enhance epithelial cell barrier function 78. gut dysbiosis results in the alteration of the intestinal metabolic profile causing perturbation of gut immune homeostasis 9. thus the composition of the gut micro- biota is strongly associated with host physiology and perturbations of the gut microbial communities lead to the development of various gi disorders including inflammatory bowel disease ibd 1011. here we review the recent advances in the field focusing on host- microbial cross-talk in ibd.ibd-associated dysbiosis in the gutdecreased beneficial bacteriait has been extensively reported that the abundance of beneficial commensal bacteria in ibd patients both ulcerative colitis uc and crohn's disease cd is re- duced.

cohort studies have shown that elemental diet has an impact on the composition of the gut microbiota and induces mucosal healing and clinical remission of cd 9697. mounting evidence suggests that a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides disaccharides monosaccharides and polyols fodmaps can effectively reduce gi symptoms in patients with irritable bowel syndrome by altering microbial compo- sition and luminal metabolism 98. in this context pilot studies have demonstrated that a low-fodmaps diet can significantly ameliorate gut dysfunction in some ibd patients 9899.collectively recent technological advances have pro-vided evidence that gut dysbiosis is one of the triggers andor mediators of progression of intestinal inflammation in ibd.

for example microbiota-produced butyrate induces the development of regulatory t cells 2425 and its administration re- stores intestinal homeostasis in rats by suppressing il- 17 production in th17 cells suggesting butyrate plays a critical role in the regulation of tregth17 balance 26. in addition to f. prausnitzii accumulating evidence indicates that the abundance of other butyrate-producing bacteria in the human gut such as roseburia hominis r. hominis and eubacterium rectale e. rectale which belong to phylum firmicutes is reduced in ibd patients compared to control subjects 1421. perhaps not sur- prisingly the intestinal levels of the other scfas in- cluding acetate and propionate are also known to be perturbed in ibd patients due to gut dysbiosis.

several studies using meta-genomics analysis have demonstrated that members of the phylum firmicutes are less abundant in patients with uc or cd 12-14. among firmicutes clostridium clusters xiva and iv are largely underrepresented in the gut of ibd patients 15-17. clostridium cluster xiva comprises species belonging to the clostridium ruminococcus lachnospira roseburia eubacterium  coprococcus  dorea and butyrivibrio genera.

for instance fecal microbiota transplantation fmt which aims to restore normal gut microbial composition and function appears to be an effective treatment for ibd 9192. it has been shown that fmt can be effective for the treatment of cdi in ibd patients resulting in the normalization of altered microbial composition and metabolic function and elimination of c. difficile 9394. indeed microbial a-diversity and richness in ibd patients treated with fmt increase and become similar to those of healthy donors95.

gut 63 1275-1283.barcenilla a. s. e. pryde j. c. martin s. h. duncan c. s. stewart c. henderson and h. j. flint.

faecalibacterium prausnitzii f. prausnitzii which be- longs to clostridium cluster iv is well known to be less abundant in ileal biopsy and fecal samples isolated from cd 141518-20 and uc patients compared to healthy subjects 21. notably the most significant reduction in the abundance of f. prausnitzii is observed in patients with active ibd rather than those in remission19 and patients with recurrent ibd 18 suggestingthat f. prausnitzii plays anti-inflammatory roles in thegut.

recent reports indicate that the abundance of campylobacter concisus c. concisus and campylobacter jejuni c. jejuni in intestinal biopsies or fecal samples isolated from ibd patients is higher than those of non-ibd controls 71- 73. others have reported that c. concisus and c. jejuni infections are closely linked to ibd flare-ups 74. for instance the invasive ratio of c. concisus strains isolated from patients with chronic intestinal disease was 500- fold higher than those from patients with acute intestinal disease or healthy subjects 75. additionally attachment of c. concisus and c. jejuni to intestinal epithelial cells prompts il-8 secretion.

plos one 6 e25417.gradel k. o. h. l. nielsen h. c. schonheyder t. ejlertsen b. kristensen and h. nielsen.

the involvement of the gut microbiota in the maintenance of the gut ecosystem is two-fold it educates host immune cells and protects the host from pathogens.

in this review we will discuss the recent advances in the field focusing on host-microbial cross-talk in ibd.immune network 20171711-12keywords gut microbiota dysbiosis pathobiont inflammatory bowel diseaseintroductionin recently years technological advances in microbio- logical research such as next generation sequencing improved anaerobic culture methods high-throughput analysis of luminal metabolites and wider availability of gnotobiotic gb mouse models have revolutionized our understanding of the functional impact gut microbiotahas on host physiology and disease.

for instance the gut microbiota plays key roles in the maturation and differentiation of th17 cells regulatory t treg cells innate lymphoid cells and immunoglobulin a-producing b cells 1-3. additionally the resident gut microbiota is crucial for the protection of the host against pathogenicreceived on november 17 2016. revised on january 19 2017. accepted on january 27 2017.this is an open access article distributed under the terms of the creative commons attribution non-commercial license i orglicensesby-nc4.0 which permits unrestricted non-commercial use distribution and reproduction in any medium provided the original work is properly cited.corresponding author.

in ibd the abundance of these beneficial bacteria is reduced thereby resulting in im- paired gut function table i.bacteroides make up the predominant portion of the gut microbiota and play a major role in metabolic activities 39. one member of this genus bacteroides fragilis b. fragilis has been shown to have a beneficial effect on the host immune system.

gut dysbiosis in patients with ibd is defined as a reduction of beneficial commensal bacteria and an enrichment of potentially harmful commensal bacteria pathobionts.

dialister invisus d. invisus  is capable of generating both acetate and propionate 27 and the abundance of this bacterium is reduced in patients with cd 15. the most abundant bacterial families represented in the human gut microbiota are ruminococcaceae and lachnospiraceae phylum firmicutes class clostridia.

