these data show that the urinary tract environment is optimal for expression of both proteases and that their elevated expression in urine is dependent on the fsr quorum-sensing system.spre has proteolytic activity in urine but not in rich medium expression of gele but not spre correlated with protease activity on protease indicator plates as dspre which expresses gele hadcaseinolytic activity equivalent to wt while the mutants thatlacked gele dgele dgs lost all detectable activity fig.

also similar to biofilm formation in cauti biofilm formed in fg-urine is dependent on the fg-binding activity of ebpa.these data show that a source of peptides can enhance growth in urine and that not only does fg provide a critical substrate for attachment that it can also serve as a key nutrient to support the growth of e. faecalis biofilm in the catheterized bladder.the molecular details of how e. faecalis processes fg and the biochemical pathways by which fg supports growth are unknown.

therapy directed against host proteases have also shown efficacy as a serine protease inhibitor serpinb1 acted to restore tissue homeostasis by regulating the innate immune response to protect lungs from damage by infection with pseudomonas aeruginosa in a murine model.interestingly mutants of e. faecalis lacking the intra- membrane protease eep also showed reduced kidney dissemina- tion in the murine cauti model.this protease is involved in maturation of an enterococcal pheromone ccf10 involved in cell-to-cell communication and dna transfer and its activity is sensitive to chemical inhibition.this suggests that by expanding the repertory of targeted proteases from the secreted proteases to include various cell-associated proteases the efficacy of protease inhibitor therapy in cauti can be improved.short-term urinary catheterization increases the risk of devel- oping a uti and other complications up to 80 and prolonged catheterization can increase the risk to 100.-the commensal gram-positive bacterium e. faecalis has a remarkable ability to adapt to the uti environment by forming biofilm on catheters which provides it with a conduit for ascension through the catheter lumen into the bladder.biofilms can be particularly challenging from an infection control standpoint as they are often refractory to antibiotics and the host immune system.

these data show that unlike standard culture conditions spre con- tributes to proteolytic activity under conditions more representa- tive of the urinary tract ut environment.in urine spre can be activated by a gele- independent mechanism under standard growth conditions in bhi the processing of the spre zymogen to the active enzyme requires the protease activityof gele.the observation above shows that spre is active in urinein the absence of gele suggesting an alternative activation mechanism in this environment.

b. these observations suggest that while maturation of active spre in bhi medium requires gele that the spre zymogen can be activated independently from gele in urine.enterococcal secreted proteases are required for processing fg since fg can promote the growth of e. faecalis og1rf in urine in vitro we examined whether the enterococcal-secreted pro-teases had the ability to cleave fg.

since completely blocking fg deposition on catheters is likely to prove challenging we have instead focused on developing therapies to block enterococci from binding to fg.in this study we capitalized on the prior observation that fg can enhance growth under conditions representative of cauti environment and the observation made here that expression of the secreted proteases gele and spre are highly up-regulated upon exposure to fg-urine to examine how fg is processed by these proteases to enhance biofilm formation and growth.

d. for cellular association these data show that consistent with fg processing behavior gele is required in artificial medium but that gele and spre are functionally redundant under conditions more representative of the bladder environment.host and enterococcal proteases promote fg-dependent growth the contribution of secreted proteases to the ability of fg to enhance enterococcal growth was then examined.

the fact that both proteases had activity against fg can explain why they were functionally redundant in urine and that the loss of both was required for attenuation in cauti consistent with our prior observation that disruption of gele alone did not result in reduced virulence in cauti.the presence of a host protease with activity against fg can also explain why the dgs mutant had enhanced growth in fg-urinein vitro despite its lack of both gele and spre.

this suggests that the ability of e. faecalis to consume fg as a growth substrate will be dependent on secreted proteases.in this work we examined the role of secreted proteases in thea 107106105104103102101b 108107106105104103wtdgele dspredgslodability of e. faecalis to grow and form biofilm in an optimized model of cauti biofilm in vitro and for biofilm formation and pathogenesis in a murine model of cauti.

however the enterococcal-secreted proteases are required for optimal biofilm formation in fg-urine although unlike fg-tsbg gele and spre are functionally redundant in the fg-urine assay.chemical inhibition of proteases improves outcome in murine cautisince the data presented above show that secreted enterococcal proteases enhance cauti pathogenesis we investigated whether treatment with several commonly used protease inhibitors could alter the course of pathogenesis in the murine cauti model.

takentogether these data show that i the enterococcal secreted proteases are required for processing fg ii while gele is the dominant protease responsible for processing in a standard medium both gele and spre contribute to processing in conditions more representative of the bladder ecology and iii there is a low level of a trypsin-like protease activity present in normal urine.enterococcal proteases promote cellular association of fg cleavage productsto examine the fate of the cleavage products of fg we developed an assay to detect the association of fg with enterococcal cells.

a gele- and gele strains expressing spre were constructed by complementing the indicated mutants with a plasmid expressing ha-tagged spre pspre or gele and ha-tagged spre pgs.

several unexpected results including that i gele and spre are functionally redundant for cauti pathogenesis ii there is a gele-independent pathway for activation of spre in the urinary tract and iii spre can support cauti pathogenesis independent of gele.

f indicating that host proteolytic activity present in normal urine can sufficiently process fg or bsa to promote enterococcal growth.both spre and gele are required for optimal biofilm formation in fg-urinenext we compared the panel of protease mutants for their ability to form biofilm in the standard tsbg and in the optimized fg- urine assay.

however consistent with the data presented here a requirement for gele to activate spre under most in vitro conditionsmeans that the loss of gele is epistatic on spre activity.

