Current BiologyDispatchesHost-Microbe Interactions Winning the Colonization LotteryBrian P. Lazzaroand Gabriel M. FoxCornell Institute of Host-Microbe Interactions and Disease Department of Entomology Cornell University Ithaca NY USACorrespondence Stochastic bottlenecks during bacterial colonization of animal hosts lead to reduced genetic diversity in the resulting microbiota and at low-inoculation doses can result in hosts that remain uncolonized.

At higher bacterial inoculations most or all hosts become colonized and genetic diversity from the inoculum is retained in most individual hosts .

melanogaster hosts even when the inoculation dose is as few as 10 bacterial cells whereas CS and HS strains successfully colonized only 50-70 of hosts at inoculation doses of millions of cells.

Bacterial strains vary in their colonization efficiency and resistance to displacement.The importance of microbial associations for the growth and development of eukaryotic hosts is no longer in question.

fit this to a 'lottery model' wherein a few lucky winners out of a large number of participants reap large rewards.The lottery model of colonization means that some individual hosts may remain uncolonized even though they have ingested millions of bacteria.

are made possible because both studies make use of small inexpensive and easily manipulated model hosts where each individual worm or fly represents an independent play of the colonization lottery.

Stochasticity during bacterial colonization of animal hosts.Because of stochastic bottlenecks animal hosts that are inoculated with few bacteria become colonized by a single dominant strain or may entirely fail to become colonized.

Animal hosts that are inoculated at a high bacterial dose are more likely to become colonized by a mosaic of strains.

Empirical extension of the base lottery model to include direct and indirect interactions among microbes and between the host and potential colonists will require years of additional experimentation.Nevertheless an element of randomness in bacterial colonization of eukaryotic hosts is likely to prove to be a universal rule.

Lazzaro unpublished data.It is important to appreciate that bottlenecks in the colonization of the gut or any other body compartment may have diverse mechanistic bases for example relating to the physics of how bacteria are introduced to hosts the structural properties of the host or microbe immunological interactions and resistance or elements of microbial ecology.

