Wald test with paired design implemented in DESeq2 was used for the analysis of differential abundance of OTUs present in 50 of the samples in 13 out of the 25 fecal samples and grouped at genus level .RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONColonization of GF mice produces bi-phasic glucose intoleranceSeveral studies using colonization of GF mice have focused on medium-long term effect of microbiota colonization 14e28 days up to 12e15 weeks on host adiposity and glucose metabolism e. Here we evaluated the effect of microbiotaehost interaction on adiposity and glucose metabolism during a period of 28 days after colonization using Swiss Webster mice as a model of mild obesity on chow diet in order to study the effect of microbiota on metabolism in obesity to avoid the pro-inflammatory effect of high fat diets .We colonized adult GF mice conventionalized mice CONV-D by oral gavage with cecum content of age- and sex-matched CONV-R mice and analyzed adiposity and glucose metabolism at five different time- points of colonization 1 3 7 14 and 28 days.

Similar to fasting glucose levels we found that glucose tolerance was impaired during the early phase and the delayed phase compared to GF mice with the most pronounced attenuation observed 1 day post-colonization and normalization of glucose tolerance similar to GF mice levels around 7 days post colo- nization H and I.

We referred these mice as conventional re- derived CONV-RD.As shown before  antibiotic treatment reduced body weight and body fat which was fully recovered 28 days after re-colonization A and B. CONV-RD mice did not show an early phase of impaired fasting glucose levels upon re-colonization while fasting glucose gradually reached CONV-R mice levels over time C. Insulin levels showed a peak of increase one day after re-colonization D but did not affect fasting glucose levels.

Original ArticleHostemicrobiota interaction induces bi-phasic inflammation and glucose intolerance in miceAntonio Molinaro  Robert Caesar  Louise Manneras Holm  Valentina Tremaroli  Patrice D. Cani  Fredrik Backhed ABSTRACTObjective Gut microbiota modulates adiposity and glucose metabolism in humans and mice.

Here we investigated how colonization of germ- free GF mice affects kinetics of adiposity and glucose metabolism.Methods Adiposity and glucose metabolism were evaluated at different time points in ex-GF and antibiotic treated mice after colonization with gut microbiota from a conventionally raised CONV-R mouse.

Importantly re-colonization of antibiotic treated mice displays only the delayed phase of glucose impairment and adiposity suggesting that the early phase may be unique to colonization of the immature GF mice gut.Conclusions Our results provide new insights on hostemicrobiota interaction during colonization of GF mice and the resulting effects on adiposity and glucose metabolism in a time resolved fashion.c 2017 The Authors.

Received August 16 2017  Revision received August 28 2017  Accepted August 28 2017  Available online 21 September 2017 system the development of a gut microbiota also influences the regulation of host metabolic genes in the intestine thus indicating a possible link between gut microbiota the immune system and metabolism .Although it is known that colonization of GF mice affects glucose metabolism and adiposity there is limited knowledge about how the development of microbiota and its interaction with the host affects adiposity and glucose metabolism in a time-resolved fashion .

Briefly insulin and glucose tolerance tests were performed by injecting insulin 0.75 Ukg body weight or glucose 2 gkg body weight respectively intraperi- toneally after a 4 h fast.

Tail blood samples were collected at 0 15 30 60 90 and 120 min and blood glucose levels were determined using a glucose meter Accu Check Aviva Roche.

Interestingly we observed two separate phases of increased fasting glucose levels F. A first phase was observed within the first 3 days after colonization early phase after which around 7 days post coloniza- tion the levels of fasting glucose decreased and returned to those observed in GF mice.

