for instance blockade of the th1 and th17 cell pathways by targeting the shared anti-p40 subunit of il-12il-23 with the monoclonal antibody ustekinumab is rapidly advancing through clinical trials as a novel treatment for moderate-to-severe cd 101 102. ilcs have also received increasing attention as novel targets for the treatment of inflammatory diseases given some of their analogous signaling pathways with t cells 103. clinical investigation on how specific subsets of ilcs respond to approved monoclonal antibody therapies that target cytokinecytokine receptor pathways or novel small molecules targeting transcriptional regulators will extend and refine the paradigm of ilc involvement in provoking and resolving inflammatory disease in the intestine and in extraintestinal tissues 104-106.in parallel to therapeutic strategies of directly modulating host immune-factors recent approaches have utilized mechanistic understanding of intestinal microbiota or microbiota- derived products for the development of novel treatments 107-109. among others proposed and emerging therapies include modification of diet 81 110 more targeted antibiotics to preserve microbiota integrity 111 supplementation of immunoregulatory metabolites administration of live biotherapeutic products 112 and fecal microbiota transplant therapy fmt 113-116. although fmt studies have reported promising results in pre-clinical and clinical-settings for infectious diseases such as c. difficile preliminary clinical trials of fmt for ibd have revealed limited efficacy 114 117. to date no microbiota-based or microbiota-derived medical products have been approved by governmental regulatory agencies for the prevention or treatment of inflammatory disease.among other challenges faced 107 a prerequisite for translational development includes distinguishing the temporal and kinetic influences of the microbiota on the host immune system 118. animal studies emphasize that the functions of several immune cell types arise during a critical 'window of opportunity' in infancy 118. for example a subset of rorgt tregs arise in the colon early after birth and prior to weaning 119-121.additionally germ free mice display increased frequencies of invariant natural killer t inkt cells in the colon which predisposes the mice to environmentally triggered colitis 122. hyper-responsive inkt responses in gf mice are reversible through administration of a normal microbiota or b. fagilis-derived antigens but only during the first two weeks of life 122. nevertheless many beneficial influences of the microbiota and microbiota- derived biomolecules on immune cell subsets are age-independent 118 and conceivablygrigg and sonnenbergpage 10represent the most appropriate treatment options for reversing immune defects present in adulthood.conclusionsinterrogation of host-microbiota interactions in the intestine has revealed unexpected and novel insights for human health and disease.

germ-free animals display a variety of intestinal immune defects including impaired development of gut-associated lymphoid tissues lower amounts of secreted immunoglobulin and also reduced intraepithelial cd8 t cells 5.additionally evidence has supported the notion of the gut microbiota as having a strong influence over the development of the immune system outside of the intestine 6. in germ- free mice splenic cd4 t helper th cells are skewed towards the th2 cell subset and promote enhanced allergic responses and type 2 immunity 6. germ-free mice also have decreased total numbers of peripheral cd4 t cells including both th17 cells 7 and regulatory t cell treg compartments 8 9. conversely the intestinal immune system also actively shapes the composition and compartmentalization of the microbiota through various mechanisms 10-13. overall these observations demonstrate that the colonizing microbiota and host immune system have a complex dynamic and reciprocal dialogue.members of the microbiota are recognized by the innate immune system through their conserved pathogen-associated molecular patterns referred to herein as microbe-associated molecular patterns mamps 14 to encompass such ligands in normally non-pathogenic organisms of the microbiota.

it is clear that the gut microbiota has a strong influence on the shape and quality of the immune system and correspondingly the immune system guides the composition and localization of the microbiota.

commensal bacteria are the most well-defined member of the microbiota and amongst the various body surfaces where commensal bacteria reside the gastrointestinal gi tract contains the highest densities which are estimated to range between 1011 to 1014 cells per gram of luminal content 3. this enormous cellular and genetic component of the human body is now well recognized to provide indispensible functions in digestion nutrition status and protection against invasive pathogens 4.the mammalian immune system is also significantly enriched in the gi tract and engages in a complex dialogue with the microbiota in order to maintain a state of homeostasis that iscorrespondence gregory f. sonnenbergrigg and sonnenbergpage 2mutually beneficial.

despite the complexity of ibd's etiology the host-microbiota interactions that drive disease pathogenesis are becoming better understood through studies in human ibd patients and animal models of intestinal damage and inflammation.genetic analyses have identified loss-of-function mutations and polymorphisms in key immune tolerance-related genes and immune response elements that can lead to early-onset ibd or increase disease-susceptibility in adulthood 21 22. many primary immunodeficiencies first manifest in the gi tract 24. for example individuals with loss-of- function mutations in il-10il-10r signaling present with very early-onset ibd due to their incapacity to regulate inflammatory immune responses to commensal bacteria in the gi tract 25-27. indeed several other primary immune-deficiencies such as combined t and b-cell deficiencies are linked to early-onset gastrointestinal disorders 24 and many more are continually being identified through whole exome sequencing 28. genome-wide association studies gwas have also identified a number of polymorphisms that are associated with an increased susceptibility to developing ibd in early-life or adulthood 21 22. the susceptibility loci include genes and gene-pathways involved in intestinal barrier function innate immune recognition adaptive immunity and cellular homeostasis 21. for example genetic alterations in nod2 an intracellular prr for bacterial peptidoglycans confer increased susceptibility to developing cd in adulthood 29 30. to extend the genetic evidence many of the identified genetic alterations found in ibd patients can phenocopy aspects of human disease when experimentally induced in animal models 31.this supports the concept that diverse impairments of hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cell signaling pathways underlie abnormal host-microbiota interactions.environmental and lifestyle risk factors also play a role in disease development 23 as evidenced by modest disease concordance between monozygotic twins who develop uc and cd in adulthood 32. for example diet is implicated to play causative and preventative roles in ibd through various mechanisms 33. of note short- and long-term dietary patterns can modify the composition of the gut microbiota 34-36. diet's link to ibd among other environmental risk factors that alter the gut microbiota such as antibiotic use has motivated investigation of associations between microbial 'dysbiosis' and intestinal inflammation.

alterations in the gut microbiota are also associated with several chronic inflammatory diseases outside of the intestine 5. while causal relationships have not yet been demonstrated these observations provoke the theory that disrupted host-microbiota interactions in the gut arising from genetic or environmental perturbations may underlie or impact the course of systemic autoimmune diseases.several research efforts in animal models have illuminated how the gut microbiota can have a causative or protective role in autoimmune disease outside of the intestine.

while these have already been proposed and demonstrated as ways in which infectious pathogens such as viruses may lead to chronic autoimmune disease in humans 59 less research has elucidated mechanisms in which resident or transient microbiota can have similar roles in systemic inflammatory diseases.in certain contexts gut microbiota can exert an 'adjuvant' effect in the priming of autoreactive adaptive immune responses.

lastly the microbiota has also been observed to promote its own compartmentalization within the intestinal lumen as well as provide protection to the host from pathogens 96 97. recent identification of the 'gut-vascular barrier' system in the small intestine 98 which restricts dissemination of gut bacteria should provide a new therapeutic framework for constraining disease manifestations due to bacterial translocation across the intestinal epithelium.grigg and sonnenbergpage 95 manipulation of intestinal microbiota and host-microbiota interactions to treat inflammatory diseases.established immunosuppressive medicines such as glucocorticoids still represent effective front-line therapies to treat inflammatory disease 99 but have clear disadvantages as a long-term treatment option.

2017 january 15 1982 564-571. doi10.4049jimmunol.1601621.host-microbiota interactions shape local and systemic inflammatory diseasesjohn b. grigg and gregory f. sonnenbergjoan and sanford i. weill department of medicine gastroenterology division weill cornell medicine new york new york usadepartment of microbiology  immunology weill cornell medicine new york new york usathe jill roberts institute for research in inflammatory bowel disease weill cornell medicine new york new york usaabstractrecent advances in understanding how the mammalian immune system and intestinal microbiota functionally interact have yielded novel insights for human health and disease.

modern technologies to quantitatively measure specific members and functional characteristics of the microbiota in the gastrointestinal tract along with fundamental and emerging concepts in the field of immunology have revealed numerous ways in which host-microbiota interactions proceed beneficially neutrally or detrimentally for mammalian hosts.

lastly we discuss translational therapies stemming from research on host-microbiota interactions that could be utilized for the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases.introductionthe human body hosts a remarkable variety 1 and quantity 2 of microorganisms collectively referred to as the microbiota.

the microbiota encompasses archaea bacteria eukarya and viruses which form a complex ecosystem thought to have co-evolved with mammalian hosts over time.

for example the requirement for microbiota in the proper development of the immune system was first demonstrated in animals reared in microorganism-free environments known as germ-free.

despite this ability to directly respond to microbiota-derived signals several features of the immune system act in cooperation with the intestinal barrier to protect the body from opportunistic pathogens and to limit the immune system from over-reacting to beneficial microbiota in the gut fig.

such features include the following a thick mucus lining the lumen of the gut epithelial cells which physically excludes most microorganisms 15 secreted iga which recognizes and binds microbe-specific epitopes and facilitates their removal 16 and secreted anti-microbial peptides amps that directly neutralize micro- organisms 17 18. in addition to their pathogen-protective effects these features help to maintain sequestration of the microbiota thus reducing the likelihood of the mammalian immune system mounting an over-reactive response to commensal bacteria.

