4 microbiota may influence intestinal innate lymphoid cell ilc homeostasis through epigenomic modifications 4142.woo and alenghatpage 16figure 2. microbiota-dependent regulation of epigenomic pathways in intestinal epithelial cells the microbiota provide signals to the intestinal epithelium that contribute to effective intestinal barrier function.

the mechanisms by which the microbiota influence uhrf1 hdacs and other epigenomic modifiers in t cells are only starting to be uncovered and represent an exciting new area of research.epigenomic pathways directed by the microbiota maintain intestinal epithelial barrier functionin addition to immune cells increasing data is emerging that support epigenomics as a potent mechanism by which the microbiota impacts intestinal epithelial cells iecs.

trillions of commensal microbes reside in the intestinal tract and are critical in modulating local and systemic immune responses 45. close association between the microbiota and the single layer of intestinal epithelial cells iecs that line the intestine are also necessary to regulate essential biological processes such as metabolism nutrient uptake neuronal development and angiogenesis 6- 8 epigenomic modifications are central mechanisms involved in directing transcriptional response to environmental cues and thus represent a potentially significant interface by which the microbiota can dynamically interact with the host genome.

recently the microbial-derived short chain fatty acids sfcas that are produced by commensal bacteria such as clostridia and bifidobacteria from fermentation of carbohydrates and fiber have emerged as central players mediating crosstalk between the microbiota and host 1819. in particularwoo and alenghatpage 3propionate acetate and butyrate the three most abundant scfas in the intestinal lumen have received increasing attention in the field due to their potential beneficial impact on host physiology including reduced inflammation and enhanced epithelial barrier function although these effects have varied between studies 320-24. germ-free mice express little to no scfas indicating that production of these metabolites is dependent on the microbiota 25. although their mechanism of action is not fully understood scfas are thought to modulate host cellular processes through 1 direct inhibition of hdac activity andor 2 activation of g-protein-coupled-receptors gpcrs 25-27. hdacs remove acetyl residues from histone or non-histone proteins and the eighteen known mammalian hdacs are classified into four classes based on sequence homology.

these epigenomic changes corresponded with increased expression of il-6 and ifnb1 and enhanced priming of natural killer cells in conventionally-housed mice relative to germ-free mice 30. microbiota-induced increase in colonic hdac3 expression and increased histone deacetylation on the il12b promoter in intestinal macrophages were found to be important in the il-10-mediated inhibition of il-12 expression and intestinal inflammation 31. global histone acetylation was also shown to be increased in intestinal macrophages in response to microbial-derived butyrate corresponding with decreased expression of il-6 and il-12 32. these genes among others were also downregulated in macrophages from antibiotic-treated mice and exhibited impaired interferon signaling and anti-viral function compared to conventionally-housed mice 33. recent work also demonstrated a novel role for butyrate in facilitating colitis-protective m2 macrophage polarization in vivo as well as reducing tnf-a and il-1b production to suppress inflammation 34. moreover in vitro experiments on bone marrow-derived macrophages indicated that m0 to m2 differentiation was induced by butyrate potentially through inhibition of hdacs and enhanced histone h3k9 acetylation and il-4stat4 signaling 34. importantly decreased gene expression in response to butyrate is not consistent with the generally expected outcome of hdac inhibition and increased histone acetylationwoo and alenghatpage 4indicating that butyrate is possibly functioning through other mechanisms in addition to hdacs or that butyrate-induced increased histone acetylation at specific genes mediates decreased gene expression.

1.similar to ilcs invariant natural killer t cells inkts respond to signals from the microbiota produce effector cytokines and activate adaptive immune cells 56. colonic lamina propia and lungs of germ-free mice were found to contain greater numbers of inkt cells leading to increased susceptibility to intestinal and pulmonary disease compared to microbiota-replete mice 57. microbiota colonization in neonatal mice resulted in decreased dna methylation of the cxc16 gene reduced expression of cxcl16 less inkt accumulation and improved barrier function fig.

given that the most critical period for microbiota colonization and establishment occurs during the first few years of life this data provokes the idea that early exposure to the microbiota may mediate essential epigenomic regulation in immune cells that could prevent or predispose to disease later in life.microbiota-derived signals epigenetically regulate t cell differentiationperipheral tregs are generated from naive cd4 cells programmed to express the lineage- defining transcription factor forkhead box p3 foxp3 58. interestingly intestinal colonization by butyrate-producing clostridium species or oral administration of butyrate was found to directly promote histone h3 acetylation of the foxp3 gene promoter and intronic enhancers conserved non-coding sequence cns 1 and cns3 in peripheral cd4 t cells fig.

iecs line the intestinal lumen and are directly exposed to the microbiota secrete antimicrobial peptides and produce cytokines that regulate immune cell recruitment and function 6566. studies comparing germ-free mice to microbiota-replete mice demonstrated that the microbiota and even single commensal bacterial species significantly influence gene expression in iecs fig.

other class i hdacs hdac1 and hdac2 were also found to be essential for maintaining iec lineages barrier function and protection from damage- induced colitis albeit these effects were not studied in the relation to microbiota dependence 81-83. collectively these studies highlight that regulation of epigenetic modifying enzymes such as hdacs represents a new mechanistic link for future investigation into how the microbiota may directly trigger epigenomic regulation in iecs.microbial-derived metabolites shape the epigenomics of the mammalian nervous systemincreasing evidence highlight the importance of gut microbiota in the development and function of both the enteric nervous system ens and central nervous system cns 84. cells of the ens that innervate the intestine respond to microbiota-derived signals as germ- free mice display decreased enteric neurons overall neuron excitability and gut motility 8586. scfas are known to regulate hormone and neurotransmitter production as well as colonic motility 87-89. further in vitro treatment of an enteric glial cell line with butyrate resulted in increased h3k9 acetylation 90 supporting the hypothesis that butyrate induces epigenetic modifications in the ens.

there is also increasing appreciation for bidirectional communication between gut microbiota and the cns as dysbiosis has been implicated in altered stress autism pain and memory 7. scfas can cross the blood-brain barrier and therefore represent a mechanism by which the intestinal microbiota may also influence the cns.

although further studies are needed to test how epigenomic pathways mediate crosstalk between the microbiota the cns and ens these recent findings suggest that intersection of the microbiota and host epigenomics represents a potentially profound level of regulation in the nervous system.conclusion and perspectivescollectively recent work has revealed substantial ties between the microbiota and epigenomic regulation in mammalian cells.

pubmed 26030851woo and alenghatpage 14woo and alenghatpage 15figure 1. epigenomic regulation of immune homeostasis by the intestinal microbiotathe intestinal microbiota and microbiota-derived metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids scfas regulate the epigenome of various hematopoietic cell types.

1 neonatal exposure to a complex microbiota establishes cpg methylation patterning in intestinal stem cells that are linked to stem cell renewal and iecdifferentiation 76. short chain fatty acids scfas are taken up as energy by superficial colonocytes lining intestinal crypts and thus prevent diffusion to the stem cell niche where these metabolites inhibit stem cell proliferation 79.

further we discuss interesting links that suggest that the scope of our understanding of epigenomic regulation in the host-microbiota relationship is still in its infancy.introductionenvironmental factors have been implicated in driving development and pathogenesis of many chronic human diseases with complex multifactorial etiologies such as asthma allergy inflammatory bowel disease diabetes and cancer 1-3. alterations in the diversity of the microbiota dysbiosis have been widely associated with many of these chronic human conditions highlighting that the microbiota and microbiota-derived signals act as environmental cues that influence host physiology.

please note that during the production process errors may be discovered which could affect the content and all legal disclaimers that apply to the journal pertain.woo and alenghatpage 2how underlying epigenomic pathways are regulated by the intestinal microbiota could aid in identifying potential therapeutic targets to prevent and treat health conditions associated with an altered host-microbiota relationship.

