In this review we focus on the relationship between gut microbiota composition and host pathophysiology and on how shaping the microbiota can be beneficial to promote host health and combat metabolic disorders.DeReGULATiOn OF THe GUT MiCROBiOTA AnD THe MeTABOLiC SYnDROMeMicrobiota Compositional Changes in Metabolic DisordersThe gut microbiota is sensitive to external cues that can reshape it to new stable compositions resulting sometimes in a deranged or dysbiotic gut flora.

Cell 2014 159514-29. doZarrinpar A Chaix A Yooseph S Panda S. Diet and feeding pattern affect the diurnal dynamics of the gut microbiome.

Nutr Res 2017 4186-96. doMoya-Perez A Neef A Sanz Y. Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum CECT 7765 reduces obesity-associated inflammation by restoring the lympho- cyte-macrophage balance and gut microbiota structure in high-fat diet-fed mice.

From the first observation that obese individuals have a distinct gut microflora compared to lean people  and the following efforts to elucidate the function of this altered microbiota  the past 10 years have seen a growing body of evidence on the impact of the gut microflora on the host.

These metabolic traits are often clustered in metabolic syndrome patients  it is therefore relevant but challenging to distinguish the implication of the gut microbiota with each of these pathologies separately.Germ-free mice are extensively used as a model for study- ing the importance of the dysbiotic gut flora.

In addition it was suggested that the brown adipose tissue can also intervene into the gut microbiota-liver regulation of BA pool since changes in cholesterol metabolism due to the brown adipose tissue activity during cold exposure can increase BAs biosynthesis and drive compositional changes in the gut microbiota .Short chain fatty acids SCFAs derive from bacterial fermen- tation of dietary fibers.

Changes in gut microbiota control inflammation in obese mice through a mechanism involving GLP-2-driven improvement of gut permeability.

A catalog of the mouse gut metagenome.

A metagenome-wide associ- ation study of gut microbiota in type 2 diabetes.

Clin Nutr 2015 34501-7. doRamirez-Farias C Slezak K Fuller Z Duncan A Holtrop G Louis P. Effect of inulin on the human gut microbiota stimulation of Bifidobacterium adolescentis and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii.

