substantial data document the multiple factors that influence this host response to infection such as host genetics alterations in the microbiome and vari- ous mechanisms of host immunosuppression  .

furthermore bacterial production of pathogen-associated molecular patterns such as lipopolysaccharide enables stimulation of both superfi- cial and cytoplasmic receptors to initiate host signaling.bacterial targeting of specific components of innate immuni- ty has a major impact on the pathogenesis of infection with complex and often redundant signaling pathways for immune cellular recruitment.

nonetheless based on the data accrued from analyses of p. aeruginosa and k. pneumoniae it is evidentthat the acquisition of antimicrobial resistance and genes that foster proliferation in the setting of innate immunity also pro- mote positive selection of these bacterial populations.host factorssources of infection - colonization and the microbiomea major question underlying the diagnosis and management of ventilator-associated pneumonias and sepsis is how and when host colonization with mdr pathogens becomes active infec- tion with a pathological immune response.

the pathological effects of immune signaling on host susceptibility to infection is also well appreciated as illustrated in the setting of bacterial superinfection post influenza .

therapeutic strategies to control appar- ently excessive immune activation in the human lung by coun- teracting the interleukin 1 cascade have been used in patients with underlying immune diseases and infection such as chronic granulomatous disease or severe sepsis with features of macro- phage activation syndrome  .the future of therapeutic strategies precision medicineseveral advances in the field of medicine will probably have a major impact on the treatment of critically ill patients with mdr infections.

doi 10.1093infdisjiw405clinicians to use therapies targeting pathological immune responses.table 1. characteristics of multidrug-resistant pathogens commonly isolated in the icuabbreviations - none  low  medium  high  very high icu intensive care unit mrsa methicillin resistant s. aureus unk unknown y yes.bacterial factorspathogen-specific immune signaling in the airwaycritical care reports refer to ventilator-associated pneumonias as a single entity assuming common pathogenesis and a homo- geneous host population.

the most obvious phenotypic marker is antimicrobial resistance but these strains must also harbor genes that facilitate proliferation despite a local antimicrobial milieu consisting of antimicrobial peptides lactoferrin mucociliary clearance phagocytic clearance and the cytokine responses of the t cells recruited in response to infection.status of the host immune systemalthough there are occasional icu patients without serious un- derlying illnesses most have significant impairment in innate immune clearance mechanisms.

the journal of infectious diseases supplemen t articl ehost-pathogen interface progress in understanding the pathogenesis of infection due to multidrug-resistant bacteria in the intensive care unitdanielle ahn and alice princedepartment of pediatrics columbia university medical center new yorkthe diverse responses of critically ill patients to infection with multi-drug resistant mdr bacteria are determined by many complex factors.

reducing healthcare-associated infection such as ventilator-associated pneumonia and catheter-related blood- stream infection has become a major objective for hospital regulatory organizations to improve patient outcome and re- duce the financial burden -.

it is perhaps the best-studied airway pathogen in part because of its association with airway infection in cystic fibrosis and the con- certed research effort to understand the pathogenesis of pulmo- nary infection associated with cftr mutations 4. with its large genome and tremendous metabolic flexibility p. aerugino- sa efficiently adapts to the human airway scavenges iron through its expression of siderophores to support growth and rapidly adapts to microenvironments throughout the lung in- cluding areas with low oxygenation .

this indicates that therapeutic strategies to assist the host clear these organ- isms would be useful.it is also evident that an excessive proinflammatory response to s. aureus infection is injurious associated with respiratory failure and sepsis.

long-standing debilitating ill- nesses poor nutrition or a major disruption in their normal microbiome all contribute to increased susceptibility to serious infection through suppression of the immune system  .

exactly how these po- tent immunomodulators change susceptibility to pneumonia and sepsis remains to be established.a theme common to several articles presented in this supple- ment is the importance of the regulation of the inflammatory responses activated by airway infection and how this may differ depending on the nature of both the host and the specific path- ogen.

technolo- gies in the rapid characterization of the host phenotype in severe infection have also advanced with improvements in focused rna-sequencing arrays   and whole-exome sequencing .for therapeutics the motivation for the discovery of novel antimicrobials is outweighed by the high economic burden of drug development and likelihood of rapid bacterial adaptation .

equally important is the variability in the host immune response whether due to genetic or iatrogenic factors including the presence of major comorbidities treatment with immunomodulatory therapy and disruption of the microbiome.

