siga can inhibit pathogenic bacteria colonization by interfering with epithelial binding targeting them for removal through t-dependent mechanisms    .secretory-iga has been shown to coat 40-80 of small intestinal commensal bacteria in mice   24-74 of anaerobic bacteria in human feces and 20 of commensal bacteria within the rumen of calves   potentially indicating siga-coating of bacteria may also be fundamental to governing commensal microbiota composition    .

we hypothesized that siga-tagged bacteria would differ from total bacteria thus supporting a potential host-derived mechanism in commensal bacterial selection.

rumen transplant has demonstrated that the mature rumen microbiome is resilient to exogenous bacteria   indicating strong host mechanisms work to retain specific bacteria while eliminating others.

we expected that siga-tagged bacteria would differ from total bacteria.

quench buffer was then removed and beads were re-suspended in 100 ul sterile 1 pbs ph 7.4 and stored at 4c.isolating siga tagged bacteriato isolate siga-tagged bacteria from non-tagged bacteria the prepared anti-secretory iga conjugated beads were used.

one limitation of the study is that not all samples were successfully amplified leaving n 5 for rumen siga-tagged bacteria and n 6 for saliva siga-tagged bacteria however it is expected that this challenge could be overcome with further optimization.oral secretion vs. whole rumen microbial compositionthe development and implementation of massive parallel sequencing has increased viability of studying the complex host- microbial interactions in ruminants getting us one step closer to being able to use the rumen microbiome in phenotypic selection criteria.

after discarding samples with below threshold quality scores and low reads per sample resulted in n 5 for rumen siga-tagged bacteria and n 6 for oral secretion siga-tagged bacteria.

based on the nmds plot community composition was only similar between siga-tagged bacteria from saliva and the rumen and  anosim p  0.05. the high degree of similarity in community composition between siga-tagged saliva and siga-tagged rumen microbiota may indicate a commensal bacteria selective mechanism as these siga-tagged microbiota are retained within the rumen.

when mice lacking a functional adaptive immune system are colonized with single species of bacteria they display an increased innate immune response in comparison to mice with functional iga  .this suggests the role of iga is to mediate immune tolerance and homeostasis allowing the host to detect new bacteria while ignoring the presence of those previously encountered  .

the fact that siga binds many native rumen bacteria and these 'tagged' bacteria remain detectable within the rumen may indicate salivary siga is acting as a selection tool for commensal colonization in a healthy state.whole rumen vs. saliva siga-tagged microbial compositioninterestingly the siga-tagged oral secretion microbiota more closely resembled whole rumen microbial composition vs. whole oral secretion due to enrichment and depletion of specificbacteria.

the unclassified genera of lachnospiraceae unclassified family of clostridiales and an unclassified class of firmicutes were all enriched proportionally in the salivary siga-tagged microbiota vs. oral secretion resulting in them becoming statistically similar to whole rumen p  0.05. other bacteria including phylum firmicutes genus streptococcus rothia unclassified genus of neisseriaceae unclassified family of lactobacillales unclassified genus of moraxellaceae genus moraxella caulobacter and methylobacterium were depleted in salivary siga-tagged microbiota vs. oral secretion causing the microbial composition to have an increased resemblance to whole rumen microbiota p  0.05. an unclassified genus of flavobacteriaceae also became non-detectable in salivary iga-tagged microbiota vs. oral secretion further increasing its similarity to whole rumen samples p  0.05. vast differences in microbial composition between siga-tagged bacteria in the saliva with that of oral secretion further indicate the siga is targeting rumen microbiota over saliva microbiota.

   melanie tuplin and department of agricultural food and nutritional science university of alberta edmonton ab canadaedited byjoerg graf university of connecticut usareviewed bydavid r. yanez-ruiz consejo superior de investigacionescientificas csic spain suzanne lynn ishaqmontana state university usashengguo zhao institute of animal sciences caaschinacorrespondence benjamin p. willing specialty section this article was submitted to microbial symbiosesa section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 22 november 2016accepted 25 april 2017published 12 may 2017citation fouhse jm smiegielski l tuplin m guan ll and willing bp 2017 host immune selection of rumen bacteria through salivary secretory iga.

however the role salivary siga plays in commensal bacteria selection in ruminants remains elusive.

the main objectives of this study were to develop an immuno-affinity benchtop method to isolate siga-tagged microbiota and to determine if salivary siga preferentially binds selected bacteria.

composition of siga-tagged oral secretion microbiota was more similar to whole rumen microbiota than whole oral secretion due to enrichment of rumen bacteria lachnospiraceae and depletion of oral taxa streptococcus rothia neisseriaceae and lactobacillales.

