this comparison indicated that in contrast with the gut microbiome oral bacteria may be more influenced by additive genetic effects oral microbiome a  19 falconer's  0.25 gut microbiome a  12 fal- coner's  0.14 p  2e-5 while the gut microbiome exhibits higher influence of shared environmental factors gut micro- biome c  29 oral microbiome c  8 p  4.1e-51.

these reports largely focused on the gut microbiome have shown heritable microbiome traits involved in food metabolic functions such as methanogenesis and fermentation  and host loci associated with the abundance of specific gut taxa such as bifidobacterium and akkermansia  .evidence of host genetic control of the human oral microbiome using high-throughput sequencing approaches has been scarcer especially in the context of oral health and disease.cfigure 6. genetic and environmental deter- minants of the oral microbiome in connec- tion to oral healtha and b wilcoxon rank-sum tests identified taxadistinguishing caries-positive versus caries-nega- tive individuals p  0.05 in enamel a and dentin b as shown by log2 fold changes of transformed data.

we thus tested the extent to which host genotype shaped oral microbiomefigure 2. oral microbiome composition of twins discordant for oral cariesa-d principal coordinates ordination plots show that caries phenotype in dentin a and b and enamel c and d does not drive plaque microbiome composition in mz a and c and dizygotic b and d twins as demonstrated by permanova p  0.9 r2  0.01. no no cariespresence yes caries presence.composition in this twin cohort independent of caries state.

caries experience in each participant was initially reduced to a whole-mouth score and three classifications were utilized no evidence of current or previous caries experience evidence of current caries affecting the enamel layer only on one or more tooth surfaces evidence of previous or current caries experience that has progressed through the enamel layer to involve the dentin on one or more tooth surfaces including restorations or tooth extractions due to caries.

to determine the combined and relative effects of host genotype and environment on oral microbiome composition and caries pheno- types we profiled the supragingival plaque micro- biome of 485 dizygotic and monozygotic twins aged 5-11. oral microbiome similarity always increased with shared host genotype regardless of caries state.

on the contrary we show that taxa possibly playing a role in caries pathology are mainly modulated by shared and unique environmental forces and that the heritable fraction of the oral microbiome is not signifi- cantly associated with oral disease.these data also show that some taxa associated with health and disease also covaried with age and sugar consumption patterns and exhibited distinct ecological interactions.

minusand plus signs next to each taxon name indicate taxa associated with caries-negative and caries- positive states respectively other taxa following a decreasing trend can be seen in figure s6a.previous twin-based studies on the heritability of oral microbes have relied on culture-based and array-based checkerboard hy- bridization approaches and contrary to our results they have suggested that the abundance of the cariogenic s. mutans and specific pathogenic attributes such as acid production in dental plaque and saliva are highly heritable traits  .the data presented herein show no evidence that potentially cariogenic streptococci and other taxa likely associated with caries are significantly driven by genetic factors.

the presence of dental caries was assessed using two categories based on disease progression caries confined to the outer enamel layer enamel and caries involving both the enamel and the deeper dentinal layer caries progressing to dentin.

thus while the human oral microbiome composition is influ- enced by host genetic background potentially cario- genic taxa are likely not controlled by genetic factors.introductionalthough there has been a tremendous expansion in human mi- crobiome research with hundreds of projects underway globally  the oral microbiome has not received the same level of attention as its gut counterpart.

subsequently based on heritability calculations we explored the extent to which oral bacterial taxa potentially associated with oral health and disease in this cohort are genetically or environmentally driven.resultsthe microbiome profiles in plaque swabs from 485 dz n  280 and mz n  205 twins between 5 and 11 years old mean age  7.8 - 1.43 years revealed an oral bacterial community composed of 297 operational taxonomic units otus clustered at 97 16s rrna gene sequence similarity average number of sequence reads per subject 22000 - 10800. otus across all samples were mainly assigned to even proportions of three main phyla--firmicutes 39.9 - 14.5 proteobacteria32.4 - 14 and fusobacteria 9.2 - 5.7--and followed in abundance by actinobacteria 9.8 - 6.8 and bac- teroidetes 8.4 - 4.8. spirochaetes and other minorfigure 1. taxonomic distribution of the oral microbiome of twin childrena and b the barplot a and inset-stacked bar plotb show the relative abundances of main otus  1 in abundance and phyla respectively.

moreover twin studies have shown that the gut microbiome similarity increases with host genetic background that some gut taxa are driven by additive genetic effects and that the abundance of specific gut taxa is linked to genes associated with immune and metabolic functions in the host .

these data contrast with results presented for the gut microbiome   where highly heritable taxa tended to co-occur more often.the low connectivity of highly heritable taxa is in contrast with otus showing a higher portion of their variability explained by shared environmental factors which tended to be highly con- nected hubs.

we did not see the same trend at the enamel level or along pcoa.1 p  0.1. this observation indicates that caries that have pro- gressed through dentin may have a compositional effect on the plaque microbiome that is not standard across twins that is the taxa involved are not the same for every twin pair.

these observations along with the significant variation in heritability estimates for individual taxa and the increased influence of unique environmental forces over time raise questions about how heritable and environmen- tally derived fractions of the microbiome influence disease.for instance p. pallens the taxon most strongly driven by additive genetic factors has not previously been reported to be associated with caries.

the microbial ecology of dental caries may be highly individualized rather than defined by health and disease ecotypes or single-microbe etiology across populations.the role that taxa modulated by genetic and environmental forces play in disease prevalence should be further assessed based on personalized functional surveys of the microbiome metagenomics metatranscriptomics and metabolomics and the host genome genome-wide association studies.

