hfhs-fed b6 mice became obese p  0.01 and developed insulin resistance and glucose intolerance after 8 weeks figure 1a and s1a-c. in addition to differences in diet responsiveness the strains varied in both absolute levels of insulin and change in insulin levels over time suggesting a significant divergence in insulin sensitivity among the strains figure s1b.to assess whole-body glucose homeostasis and more directly evaluate the underlying role of the pancreatic islets in the control of plasma insulin we measured plasma glucose and insulin during an oral glucose tolerance test ogtt.

some of the families differentially represented in the transplanted animals overlap with taxa that are significantly correlated with metabolic phenotypes in the founder strains figure 2. notably b6b6 mice exhibited higher levels of clostridiaceae p  0.01 which is positively associated with insulin secretion in the founder strains figure 2 whereas b6cast mice had higher levels of bacteroidaceae p  0.01 which is negatively associated with body weight and insulin secretion figure 2. these results are concordant with the metabolic phenotypes observed in the transplanted mice and suggest that the distinct microbial gut communities influence metabolic changes evoked by hfhs feeding including insulin secretionwe characterized the functional potential of transplanted communities by sequencing and analyzing their metagenomes.

they also suggest that the differential responses to prolonged hfhs diet consumption between b6 and cast mice could be mediated at least in part by differences in microbial ba metabolism.kreznar et al.page 9gut microbiota influences insulin secretionthe most dramatic phenotype difference we observed between b6b6 and b6cast mice was in insulin secretion where b6cast mice had a blunted insulin response during the ogtt figure 3e.

a dietary treatment of 16 weeks allows robust development of metabolic phenotypes associated with consumption of hfhs diet.recipient mice recapitulated microbial and metabolic phenotypes observed in the respective donor strains figure 3 and 4. b6b6 mice gained 25 more weight had larger epididymal fat pad mass and showed greater hepatic triglyceride accumulation than b6cast mice figure 3. additionally ogtt revealed that while the plasma glucose levels resulting from an orally administered bolus of glucose did not significantly differ between the two groups of transplanted mice figure 3e the insulin responses were dramatically different figure 3f.

consistent with this b6b6 mice had significantly higher levels of secondary ba as well as hydrophobic ba species than b6cast mice figure 5b-c and s6c-d both of which are elevated in humans and mice with insulin resistance ryan et al.

these results suggest that the effectiveness of insulin to maintain euglycemia was greater in the mice receiving the cast microbiota than in mice receiving the b6 microbiota figure 3e-f.16s rrna gene profiling of the donor cecal inoculum and transplant recipient fecal samples show that recipient mice were successfully colonized with the donor's microbiota.

to determine whether the differential insulin response during the ogtt in the b6b6 vs. b6cast mice resulted from altered insulin secretion we performed ex vivo insulin secretion assays on isolated islets.

data are mean - sem n 6-7 for transplant recipients and n 5 for cr mice.kreznar et al.page 25figure 6. cast and b6 microbiomes differentially regulate insulin secretion and fxr expression in pancreatic isletsa total islet insulin content and glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in response to low glucose 3.3 mm low glucose plus kcl 40 mm high glucose 16.7 and high glucose plus glp-1 100 mm from islets isolated from b6b6 and b6cast mice.

changes in plasma insulin may reflect altered insulin secretion from b-cells peripheral insulin resistance reduced insulin clearance or any combination thereof.

bacteroidaceae p  0.01 figure 2a and s3c.we transplanted cecal microbiota from either conventionally-raised b6 b6-cr or cast cast-cr donor mice into 9-week-old b6-gf recipient mice to yield b6b6 or b6cast mice respectively.

the ba composition of b6b6 mice closely resembled that of b6-cr donor mice whereas b6cast exhibited a ba profile that was intermediate between cast-cr and b6-cr mice figure 5a.

2010. despite the high abundance of bacteroidaceae in b6cast mice we did not observe complete protection from diet-induced metabolic disease that we observed in cast-cr mice suggesting that hostkreznar et al.page 11factors or taxa that failed to colonize transplanted mice e.g.

2006. we detected higher levels of lca and dca in the feces and plasma of b6b6 mice relative to b6cast mice figure 5b and s6c-d along with increased expression of fxr in pancreatic islets from b6b6 mice figure 6b.

the glucose challenge evoked a much larger insulin response in b6b6 mice than in b6cast mice.

islets were harvested from b6-gf mice 1 month after successful colonization with either cast-cr or b6-cr cecum-derived microbiota figure s5.the isolated islets partially recapitulated the reduced insulin secretion observed in the cast-colonized mice in vivo figure 3e.

