sows were fed a standard gestation and lactation diet.the experiment was repeated on 3 replicates with 3 different batches of sows that farrowed in april 2014 september 2014 and january 2015. fecal samples were collected from sows during farrowing sows originating from the conventional system n  6 6 and 6 and from the enriched system n  6 8 and 7 in batch 1 2 and 3 respectively.

microbiota of sows from the enriched system contained significantly more prevotella parabacteroides cf231 phascolarctobacterium fibrobacter anaerovibrio and yrc22 and significantly less lactobacillus bulleidia lach- nospira dorea ruminococcus and oscillospira than microbiota of sows from the conven- tional system.

the firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio was 0.96 in the microbiota of sows kept in the enriched pens and this increased to 1.66 in the microbiota of sows kept in the conven- tional system.

the microbiota of 1- and 4-day-old piglets differed from the microbiota of sows and sows therefore did not represent the most important source for their colonization in early days of life.accepted december 28 2016 published january 13 2017copyright c 2017 kubasova et al.

in pig production the cleaning procedures applied in the farrowing unit prior to entrance of the sows decrease the occurrence of environmental microbiota.despite this it is difficult to predict to what extent the sows are responsible for the develop- ment of microbiota in piglets.

the experimental protocol was approved by the local ethics committee for animal experiments in rennes comite' rennais d'ethique en matiere d'expe'rimentation animale france and the french ministry of higher education and research agreement n 02805.02. all sampled animals were returned back to the commercial production at the end of the experiment.animals and experimental designlarge-white x landrace sows were divided into 2 independent farrow-to-finish units with identical management strategies but differing in the housing environment for gestating sows.

fecal samples were col- lected from piglets on day 1 of life in the first replicate 13 piglets of the 6 sows from the con- ventional system and 11 piglets of the 6 sows from the enriched system.

fecal samples werealso collected from 4-day-old piglets n  9 13 and 16 piglets of sows the conventional system and 9 15 and 14 piglets of sows from the enriched pens in batch 1 2 and 3 respectively.

the second cluster was therefore weakly enriched for sows kept under conventional conditions.altogether 36 different genera were found in microbiota of at least 90 of sows i.e.

this analysis showed that 13 genera were differently abundant 6 being more abundant in the microbiota of sows kept under conventional conditions and 7 being more abundant in micro- biota of sows kept under enriched conditions with straw bedding.

we also noticed that all genera being of a higher abundance in sows from conventional conditions belonged to the phylum firmicutes whilst genera of higher abundance in microbiota in sows kept under enriched conditions belonged mainly to the phyla bacteroidetes or fibrobacteres.

the firmicutes to bacteroidetes ratio in microbiota from sows from conventional conditions was 1.66 whilst this ratio decreased to 0.96 in microbiota of sows kept under enriched conditions with straw bedding.a lower number of differently represented genera was recorded in 1- and 4-day-old piglets.

streptococcus was more frequent in microbiota of 1-day-old piglets from sows housed in con- ventional conditions and escherichia was more abundant in microbiota of 1-day-old piglets from sows housed in the enriched production system.

veillonella and pasteurella were more frequent in microbiota of 4-day-old piglets from sows housed in the conventional production system .discussionin this study we analyzed the fecal microbiota composition in sows kept under 2 different pro- duction systems during gestation and in their piglets.

smaller spots-microbiota of sows kept under conventional conditions with slatted floor or of piglets delivered by these sows.

