This is an extreme example although it should be noted that the intesti nal microbiota has powerful modulatory effects on the toxicity of many environmental and pharmaceutical xenobiotics and heavy metals1819.Maternal support of fetal immune development Molecular transfer of nutrients and microbial molecules during early life immune development.

These signals contribute to immune development in the offspring and have effects on processes including the expansion of innate immune populations in the intestine the development of intestinal epithelial cells mucus development the expression of antimicrobial peptides and the secretion of antibodies into the intestinal lumen.

Mammals have evolved to provide protection in early postnatal life by means of nutritional and immune support through lactation.

In this Review we examine the relative roles of nutrition and microbial metabolites in maternofetal molecu lar exchange and discuss how these shape healthy immune system development.

Nutrition was originally shown to be a vital determinant of fetal growth and development from farm animal experiments that date from the first half of the last century7 and from studies on humans liv ing in the tragic conditions of malnutrition in Europe at the end of the Second World War6.There is abundant evidence that nutritional and other molecular events in fetal and neonatal life lay a foundation for future health that includes effects on immune system function.

The developing immune system of the fetus is shaped markedly by the in utero environment.

In utero malnutrition impairs immune function through both direct and indirect mechanisms FIG.

In addition maternal malnutrition leads to stress responses in the mother and fetus that directly affect placental function and fetal immune development.

One of the major neuroendocrine systems that controls among other things reactions to stress the immune system digestion and emotions.

These effects are probably due to epigenetic programming which is discussed further below.Therefore it is clear that maternal nutrition is vital for the healthy development of the infant immune sys tem.

