however much less is known about the effects of dietary fibers on the gut microbiota and it has not been established a direct effect of the supplementation of these compounds on the re-establishment of specific gut commensals.

selective and specific modulation of the rat gut microbiota was observed with enhancement andor reduction of various gut commensals during treatments with these molecules.

2016. apple-derived pectin modulates gut microbiota improves gut barrier function and attenuates metabolic endotoxemia in rats with diet-induced obesity.

2015. probiotic bifidobacterium longum alters gut luminal metabolism through modification of the gut microbial community.

pilar francino fundacion para el fomento de la investigacion sanitaria y biomedica de la comunitat valenciana fisabio universitat de valencia spaincorrespondence francesca turroni specialty section this article was submitted to microbial symbiosesa section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 08 may 2017accepted 28 august 2017published 12 september 2017citationferrario c statello r carnevali lmancabelli l milani c mangifesta m duranti s lugli ga jimenez b lodge s viappiani a alessandri g dall'asta m del rio d sgoifo a van sinderen d ventura m and turroni f 2017 how to feedthe mammalian gut microbiota bacterial and metabolic modulationby dietary fibers.

parma italy 4 division of computational and systems medicine department of surgery and cancer imperial college london london united kingdom 5 department of food and drug university of parma parma italy 6 apc microbiome institute and school of microbiology national university of ireland cork irelandthe composition of the gut microbiota of mammals is greatly influenced by diet.

therefore evaluation of different food ingredients that may promote changes in the gut microbiota composition is an attractive approach to treat microbiota disturbances.

this study represents a first attempt to modulate selectively the abundance andor metabolic activity of various members of the gut microbiota by means of dietary fiber.keywords diet microbiota dietary fibers rat model acetate succinateintroductionthe term microbiota is defined as the community of commensal symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms present in a specific environment  .

since 2009 different metagenomic projects have shed light on the microbiota composition of humans from various geographical locations     by assessing hundreds of samples from skin mouth and gut.

it is believed that diet modulates the composition of the gut microbiota    .

in particular dietary carbohydrates that transit through the git are able to influence the composition and stability of the gut microbiota    .

maturation andregulation of host immunity and gut functions  .the term prebiotic refers to compounds and in particular to indigestible i.e.

non-digestible by the host carbohydrates that are able to stimulate growth andor metabolism of selected beneficial gut bacteria such as members of the genera bifidobacterium and lactobacillus        .

such dietary compounds through their ability to modulate the gut microbiota are purported to reduce the prevalence and duration of infectious and antibiotic-associated diarrhea and the inflammation and symptoms associated with inflammatory bowel disease exert protective effects to prevent colon cancer enhance the bioavailability and uptake of minerals reduce risk factors for cardiovascular disease and prevent obesity    .

thus the use of prebiotics is considered an important approach to manipulate the gut microbiota in order to prevent or treat unbalanced git conditions  .

