Relatively simplified biomarkers for selected diseases may be looked for and calculated by complex computa- tional methods based on parameters such as microbial diversity of the microbiota predominance or absence of specific species of bacteria levels of defined metabolites and other.Words have an extraordinary power  Some like pathogen or pathogenicity may obscure the right inter- pretation of biological processes and other words may facilitate the clarification of complex developments  We claim that the introduction of certain terms to the world of Medicine may greatly improve our understand- ing of both health and disease.

these changes happen not only in obese individuals bad or diseased microbiome but also in women in their third trimester good or healthy microbiome  .Interestingly an adverse outcome of influenza and a suboptimal immunogenicity of the flu vaccine are influ- enced by these conditions in humans and experimental animals Fig.

Switching roles from defenders to attackers S. lugdunensis or C. striatum may cause serious infections  .

S. aureus cohabitating other body sites for example the lungs may increase the virulence of other microbes in the vicinity .

Escherichia coli a major member of the gut microbiota may cause life-threatening infections.

Conversely probiotic strains of the same bac- terium may prevent recurrence of bladder infections in women or the development of rampant cholera infec- tion in experimental settings .

Many other microbes acting as endogenous or exogenous pathobionts may appear to act as independent aggressors but their ability to trigger disease is actually orchestrated and regulated by members of the microbiomemicrobiota.

Consequently when trying to understand holobionts in health and disease we may apply novel methods developed by social and economic scientists .

While there may be one or more pathobionts playing a central role in the former case there is a concurrent perturbation of the microbiota which can either precede or follow the intro- duction of the pathobionts into the holobiont system.

The currently consolidating idea that interactive co-evolution of the host with its micro- biota is an important driving force for evolution may predict future elucidations in the mechanisms of a holobiont becoming sick  In recent years the major roles played by environmental factors in the development of these diseases of holobionts have begun to be deciphered.

