and the few popular paradigms such as the heavily cited histone deacetylation in human colonocytes by microbially derived butyrate 7 probably still need to be refined.challenges  potential directions for integrative human microbiome  epigenetic researchnow combining human epigenetic and microbiome research is surely easier said than done.

a reductionist approach is advised to explore both epigenetic controlling of the human microbiome and how human microbiome and metabolome can modulate human epigenetic regulation.10.4155fsoa-2017-0046future sci.

editorialfor reprint orders please contact human epigenetics and microbiome the potential for a revolution in both research areas by integrative studies...the extent to which epigenetic mechanisms modulate healthy or commensal microbes is virtually unknown let alone how thoseprocesses are influenced and what influence they can have on their surrounding environment.first draft submitted 10 april 2017 accepted for publication 13 april 2017 publishedonline 9 june 2017keywords epigenetics  health and disease  microbiomefranck carbonerodepartment of food science a simple pubmed search confirms the intuitive thinking that human epigenetics and human microbiome research have received consid- erable attention in the recent years 13082 and 28446 hits respectively.

it is already known that the dynamic nature of human epigenetics is a sig- nificant hurdle for clinical translation of basic research and the human microbiome which is both personalized and dynamic is probably an additional significant confounder.so why try to correlate epigenetics  microbiomefirst as we reported last year 1 the extent to which epigenetic mechanisms modulate healthy or commensal microbes is virtually unknown let alone how those processes are influenced and what influence they can have on their surrounding environment.

while this approach should arguably reduce confounding factors it would have to be primarily applied to animal mod- els since human colonic biopsy sampling is relatively uncommon and may not even allow for studying both microbiome and host epigenetics.there has also been extensive research into chemical compounds that could serve as epigenetic drugs 15. in that context metabolomics the study of all metabolites resulting from microbial metabo- lism found across the human body 16 should defi- nitely be considered more often.

it makes per- fect sense that the host-associated microbiome may be the ultimate environmental trigger for epigenetic processes because of its spatial location and ability to convert environmen- tal and diet-derived compounds before they reach human cells.

thismeans that potentially any association with health and disease that have been suggested in the recent years 23 may have to be revis- ited through the microbiome epigenome perspective 4. understandably investiga- tors in microbiome research tend to consider microbes' metabolic properties as relatively stable as illustrated by the popular use of bioinformatics algorithms phylogenetic investigation of communities by recon- struction of unobserved states picrust that supposedly infer metabolic properties based on taxonomic based on phylogenetic markers profiles 5. while the inherent limitations of such an approach are gener- ally well discussed the fact that epigenetic regulation of gene expression in the vast majority of human microbiome members is unknown represents another major limita- tion that has so far been ignored.

since gut microbiome and gut and urine metabolome appear to correlate well enough that the urine metabolome can be used as a proxy 18 it is possible that stool andor urine would actually be the appropriate parameter to combine with host epigenetics profiling-based studies.conclusionto summarize there is interest and rationale to consider the human microbiome as a novel and crucial para- meter in clinical epigenetic research.

to view a copy of this license visit commons.orglicensesby4.0referencescureau n aljahdali n vo n carbonero f. epigenetic mechanisms in microbial members of the human microbiome current knowledge and perspectives.

mycoplasma cg- and gatc-specific dna methyltransferases selectively and efficiently methylate the host genome and alter the epigenetic landscape in human cells.

from such a baseline it would then become possible to start hypothesis-based studies.while linking host epigenetic profiles with gut microbiome profiles has been attempted in a few pre- vious studies 1314 this kind of approach should prob- ably be limited to cases where a relatively clear-cut segregation power has been identified in either the epi-...epigenetic drugs may readily be produced in situ by specific microbes and molecules of inter-est may actually be degraded or inactivated by microbial activity.genetic or the microbiome profile.

novel pharmaceutical approaches by natural compound- derived epigenetic regulators epigenetic readers writers and erasers as therapeutic targets.

second human microbiome is remarkably personal- ized 6 thereby its influence on host epigen- etic processes will be too.

finally there is still little understanding on how human microbiome modulates host epi-university of arkansas fayetteville usaauthor for correspondence tel.

subsequently it would appear that a more realis- tic approach would be to first determine baseline knowledge from different models.from the microbiome members' perspective there is already some knowledge about genomic fine-tuning in the model human gut symbiont escherichia coli due to environmental conditions inside vs outside digestive tract 1112. it is very likely that epigenetics actually play an even greater role into maximizing microbial populations' fitness to the ever-changing gut micro ecosystems.

