To determine whether increased secretory response to 5-HT seen in GF mice was due to an increase in 5-HT 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptor expression we compared mRNA and protein expression in GF and HM mice Fig.

We hypothesized that the increase in secretory re- sponse to exogenously applied 5-HT in GF mice was due to increased 5-HT receptor expression in GF mice.

The 5-HT3B subunit is a major determinant of 5-HT receptor function 5 14 and our data show an increase in 5-HT3B receptor subunit in GF mice which correlates with increased secretory response to 5-HT in GF mice.

Change in short-circuit current in response to cumulative concentration of 5-HT in the presence of TTX A change in short-circuit current in response to cumulative concentration of 5-HT in the presence of TTX and ondansetron B and change in short-circuit current in response to cumulative concentration of 5-HT in the presence of TTX and GR-113808 C in GF and HM mice.

Since we observed an increase in 5-HT3 but not 5-HT4 receptor expression in GF mice we next wanted to determine the role of 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptors in differential secretory response to 5-HT in GF and HM mice using specific 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 receptor antagonists Fig.

A change in short-circuit current in response to cumulative concentration of 5-HT and 5-HT in the presence of ondansetron in GF mice.

D change in short-circuit current in response to cumulative concentration of 5-HT and 5-HT in the presence of GR-113808 in GF mice.

We found that both GF and HM mice showed increased iIsc in response to exogenously applied 5-HT in a concentration-dependent manner suggesting that 5-HT medi- ates the secretory response irrespective of microbial coloniza- tion.

Swiss Webster germ-free GF breeders used to produce the GF and the humanized HM ex-GF colonized with human gut microbiota mice in this study were obtained from Taconic Farms Germantown NY and maintained in gnotobiotic isolators in the Mayo Clinic gnotobiotic facility.

To further determine whether the increased secretory response in GF mice can be attributed to increased expression of 5-HT3 receptors we used a 5-HT3 receptor-specific agonist 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine hy- drochloride 100 uM which evoked a significantly higheriIsc in GF compared with HM mice 86.6 - 18.1 vs. 32.0 -5.6 uAcm2 n  5 unpaired t-test P  0.05 Fig.

