statistical analysis was performed using the non-parametric friedman test in combinationwith dunn's multiple comparison test prism v graphpad software inc. san diego.resultsthe b acterial metabolite n -butyrate downregulates expression of innate response receptors as well as the cystine-glutamate transporter xct in primary human pbmoin comparison to pbmo lpmo express low levels of the innate response receptors cd11b cd14 and cd16 2-4. accordingly low expression of these receptors has been observed in normal mucosa in situ when compared to inflamed mucosa of patients suffering from inflammatory bowel disease 38-42. in order to determine a potential regulation of the expression of these receptors by the bacterial metabolite n-butyrate in pbmo peripheral blood mononuclear cells pbmc were exposed to this compound at concentrations of 1 and 0.5 mm respectively for 24 h. subsequent flow cytometric analysis of pbmo identified as cd45th lineage- cd33th hla-drth cells within the pbmc population revealed a dose-dependent downregulation of cd11b cd14 and cd16 in the presence of n-butyrate while the expression of hla-dr a receptor highly expressed on lpmo 43 44 was upregulated fig.

note that the analysis was confined to annexin v-negative pbmo in order to avoid potential confounding effects due to n-butyrate- induced apoptosis or apoptosis due to prolonged cul- ture 45. the number of annexin v-positive pbmo was on average 12.4 - 7.4 1 mm n-butyrate and 13.6 - 5.6 0.5 mm n-butyrate respectively higher following n-butyrate treatment when compared to medium control fig.

s2a and b. this suggests that butyrate mediates the downregulation of these receptors by directly affecting monocytes.given its hdac inhibitory activity n-butyrate is capable of modulating gene expression for example through acetyla- tion-induced alteration of the chromatin structure or transcription factor activity 46 47. in order to determine whether downregulation of surface expression of cd11b cd14 and cd16 on pbmo by n-butyrate is associated with decreased expression levels of the corresponding genes transcript levels of these genes were determined in untreated vs. n-butyrate treated pbmo by qpcr.

peripheral blood monocytes pbmo were enriched by plastic adherence for 2 h. alternatively pbmo were purified by negative selection using magnetic beads macs miltenyi biotec gmbh bergisch-gladbach germany.n-butyrate treatment of pbmcpbmopbmc or pbmo enriched by plastic adherence were cultured in rpmi 1640 thermo fisher scientific waltham ma10fcs sigma st.-louis mo2 glutaminethermo fisher scientificantibiotics thermo fisher scientific in the presence or absence of n-butyrate 0.5 mm 1 mm sigma for 4 h andor 24 h. subsequently cells were lysed and subject to western blotting or gene expression analysis.

2c.cd16 gene expression in human pbmo is regulated by the transcription factor pu.1the participation of pu.1 in the transcriptional regulation of cd11b and cd14 in myeloid cells has been shown for cell lines and murine models 48 50 55. to explore the contribution of pu.1 to the expression of these genes as well as cd16 and xct in primary human pbmo sirna- mediated pu.1 gene knock-down was performed in the latterfigure 1. n-butyrate downregulates expression of innate response receptors as well as the cysteine-glutamate transporter xct in primary human pbmo.

n-butyrate is detectable in the gut lumen in high concentrations 11-24 mm 24 25. while serving as the main energy source for intestinal epithelial cells 26 27 it also appears to be able to access the underlying mucosal tissue as well as the blood circulation since it is detectable in portal vein blood at higher concentrations than in peripheral blood 28. importantly n-butyrate has recently been implicated in the modulation of the intestinal immune cell compart- ment 29-31 through induction of regulatory t cells.to explore the effect of n-butyrate on expression levels of cd14 cd11b and cd16 as well as xct pbmo were exposed to this short chain fatty acid.

1b of n-butyrate exposure when compared to the untreated control.the b acte rial metabolite n -butyrate downregulates the expression of the transcription factor pu.1 in human pbmothe promoterenhancer region of the gene encoding human cd11b has been shown to contain consensus sequences for the transcription factor pu.1 which is constitutively expressed in myeloid cells 48 49. in addition cd14 gene expression is regulated by the transcription factor klf4 which has also been demonstrated to be a target of pu.1 50. importantly expression of pu.1 was shown to be downregulated by histone hdac inhibitors including n-butyrate in murine macrophage cell lines 32 33 and murine bone marrow stem cells 51. in order to determine whether n-butyrate is able to modulate the constitutive pu.1 expression in primary human pbmo the latter cell population was exposed for 24 h to this short chain fatty acid.

62 reported that n-butyrate treatment of patients suffering from ulcerative colitis resulted in reduced nf-kb activation in lamina propria macrophages which correlated with amelioration of intestinal inflammation.here we addressed the question whether n-butyrate contributes to another important feature of intestinal immune homeostasis namely the low expression of innate immune response receptors cd11b cd14 cd16 as well as xct the light chain of the cystineglutamate trans- porter as observed on human lpmo 2 4 12. while lowexpression of innate response receptors impairs recogni- tion of microbial products and hence the initiation of an innate immune response low xct expression on lpmo restricts the up-take of cystine and the production of cysteine by this cell type and thereby contributes to the reduced cysteine-dependent proliferative response of lamina propria t lymphocytes to antigen receptor stimulation 12 63 64.we demonstrate that n-butyrate is able to downregulate surface expression of the innate response receptors cd14 cd16 and cd11b in human pbmo.

ol overlay magnification x40.myeloid cells 12 correlates with a decrease in n-butyrate producing bacteria 66 as well as diminished mucosal n- butyrate uptake and oxidation in inflammatory bowel disease when compared to healthy conditions 67.acting as an hdac inhibitor n-butyrate may affect gene expression by enhancing acetylation of histones and other nuclear as well as cytoplasmic or mitochondrial pro- teins 68. an increase in histone acetylation has mostly been associated with enhanced gene transcription due to chromatin decondensation facilitating binding of transcrip- tion factors and co-activators 69. however hdac inhibitors have also been observed to repress gene expres- sion as it is the case in this study 30 70. the molecular mechanisms underlying this repressive activity are less well understood it has been demonstrated that the recruitment of the rna polymerase ii to core promoter regions of suppressed genes is reduced in the presence of hdac inhibitors 30 33. furthermore transcriptional repression of oncogenes by hdac inhibitors has been shown to becaused by inhibition of rna polymerase ii mediated transcription elongation 71. importantly the binding of transcription factors to gene regulatory elements can be inhibited 70 while that of transcriptional suppressor complexes can be enhanced in the presence of hdac inhibitors 72.here we demonstrate for the first time that the transcription factor pu.1 is downregulated by n-butyrate treatment in primary human pbmo.

112205-215.smythies l. e. m. sellers r. h. clements m. mosteller-barnum g. meng w. h. benjamin j. m. orenstein and p. d. smith.

1494-108.hazenbos w. l. j. e. gessner f. m. hofhuis h. kuipers d. meyer i. a. heijnen r. e. schmidt m. sandor p. j. capel m. daeron et al.

172-8.ginhoux f. m. greter m. leboeuf s. nandi p. see s. gokhan m. f. mehler s. j. conway l. g. ng e. r. stanley et al.

note that complete co-localization of the pu.1 signal with the nucleic acid stain hoechst33342 in pbmo under all experimental conditions indicates a constitutive nuclear localization of this transcription factor in these cells which is in agreement with previous results 54.compatible with a regulation of pu.1 expression on the level of gene expression pu.1 gene symbol spi1 mrna levels were reduced in n-butyrate treated versus untreated pbmo after 4 h of culture fig.

right panel pu.1 expression measured as fluorescence intensity in annexin v- untreated pbmo medium was set to 100. pu.1 expression levels in n-butyrate 1 mm 0.5 mm treated pbmo was calculated as  expression of untreated control.

pbmo were cultured in the absence or presence of different concentrations of n-butyrate 1 mm0.5 mm for 24 h. apoptosis of pbmo was detected by annexin v staining and subsequent flow cytometric analysis.

