mixtures of hmos were investigated in intestinal epithelial cells and in preterm pigs n112 fed if supplemented without con or with a mixture of four hmos 4-hmo or n25 hmos 25-hmo 5-10 gl given for 5 or 11 days.

diarrhea and reduced absorption of water might shorten the contact time between the hmos and the epithelium and bacteria and the increased intestinal transit may have reduced the ability of hmos to exert prebiotic and decoy effects.the trend toward higher scfa levels in the colon of 4-hmo pigs relative to con pigs in experiment 3 suggests that the hmos were subject to colonic fermentation at least at 11 days after preterm birth.

there are individual variations in the relative abundance of specific hmos as the in vivo synthesis of hmos is dependent on the mother's genotype for fucosyltransferases reflected in specific blood group determinants and secretor status.

both single hmos and mixtures of hmos may have important functions that are central for maturation and immuno- logic capacity of the git.

it is unknown however if the effects of hmos are similar between normal infants and preterm infants which have an immature git with a highly unstable bacterial colonization.with recent advances in synthetic chemistry a wide range of pure oligosaccharides structurally identical to hmos are now becoming available in amounts relevant for in vivo investigations.

n3.when stimulating cells with individual hmos only the acidic hmos induced il-6 and il-8 secretion both pb.05 at levels similar to that induced by lps.

co- stimulation of lps and acidic hmos further elevated il-8 secretion compared with corresponding hmos alone both pb.05 or lps alone pb.05.

the protective effects of hmos may differ depending on the gut development and degree of bacterial coloniza- tion and specific hmos may work in concert to exert their immune modulating effects.

in these studies oligosaccharide profiling of pooled hmos revealed that one specific isomer disialyllacto-n-tetraose dslnt was responsible for the nec-protective role of hmos.

a beneficial effects of hmos with well-controlled expression of inflammatory genes maturation of gut functions regulated enterocyte proliferation and moderate scfa production and some systemic uptake of hmos.

here we show how hmos may have beneficial effects in the developing intestine a although such benefits may easily be overshadowed by detrimental effects of formula feeding b.species-specific differences related to the presence of endogenousoligosaccharides may affect the potential effects of adding hmos to if.

of biology university of copenhagen universitetsparken 15 2100 copenhagen denmarkreceived 12 november 2015 received in revised form 27 september 2016 accepted 5 october 2016abstracthuman milk oligosaccharides hmos may mediate prebiotic and anti-inflammatory effects in newborns.

all hmos were found in urine and feces of hmo-treated pigs and short-chain fatty acids in the colon were higher in hmo vs. con pigs pb.05.

however the hmos had limited effects on nec and diarrhea when supplemented to if.

longer-term exposure to hmos may be required to improve the immature intestinal function in formula-fed preterm neonates.c 2016 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.keywords human milk oligosaccharides necrotizing enterocolitis gut health preterm pigs gastrointestinal developmentintroductionpremature infants are born with an immature gastrointestinal tract git and are immunodeficient for a period after birth.

