hindawibiomed research internationalvolume 2017 article id 7585989 8 pages research articlehuman gut microbiota associated with obesity in chinese children and adolescentsya-ping hou12 qing-qing he3 hai-mei ouyang4 hai-shan peng12 qun wang3 jie li3 xiao-fei lv4 yi-nan zheng4 shao-chuan li3 hai-liang liu3 and ai-hua yin121 medical genetic centre guangdong women and children hospital guangzhou guangdong 510010 china 2maternal and children metabolic-genetic key laboratory guangdong women and children hospital guangzhou guangdong 510010 china3capitalbio genomics co. ltd. dongguan 532808 china4department of pediatrics guangdong women and children hospital guangzhou guangdong 510010 china correspondence should be addressed to hai-liang liu and ai-hua yin received 5 june 2017 revised 4 september 2017 accepted 27 september 2017 published 29 october 2017academic editor koichiro wadacopyright c 2017 ya-ping hou et al.

to our knowledge bifidobacterium and lactobacillus might be used as indicators of healthy conditions among obese children and adolescents as well as a kind of prebiotic and probiotic supplement in the diet to be an auxiliary treatment in obesity.conclusionin summary from the present study we learned that the gut microbiota composition was significantly different between obese children and the healthy cohort which included bac- teria categories of enterococcus blautia sutterella klebsiella and collinsella which were enriched in obese children while bacteroides parabacteroides anaerotruncus and coprobacil- lus were enriched in healthy controls.

however to which extent and through which mechanism the gut microbiota contributes to obesity development have not yet been elucidated.in this present study we recruited 87 obese children and adolescents as the case group and 56 healthy children and adolescents as the control group to analyze the community composition of gut microbiota between them and to further reveal potential microbial functional characteristics of obese children.method and materialscohort in this study.

we recommend that bifidobacterium and lactobacillus might be used as indicators of healthy conditions among obese children as well as a kind of prebiotic and probiotic supplement in the diet to be an auxiliary treatment for obesity.introductionobesity isa condition mainly caused by an alteration in ener- gy intake shifting towards positive energy balance which can be influenced by genetic and environmental factors the prevalence of obesity is increasing at an epidemic rate globally with more than one billion adults overweight and at least 300 million of them clinically obese morbid obesity is known to be accompanied by serious health conditions including hypertension type 2 diabetes cardiovascular dis- eases stroke and venous thromboembolism a large number of diverse microbial species reside in the distal gastrointestinal tract and gut microbiota dysbiosis results in the imbalance of the composition and function of these intestinal microbes to date many studies demon- strate that gut microbes play a great role in disease rangingfrom localized gastroenterologic disorders to neurologic respiratory hepatic and cardiovascular illness and metabolic related syndromes in particular the fundamental role of gut microbiota in regulation and pathogenesis of metabolic disorders has attracted interest of more and more researchers in recent years.

dietary modulation of gut microbiota contributes to alleviation of both genetic and simple obesity in children ebiomedicine vol.

for the aspect of obesity the research team of jeffrey gordon learned that differences of gut microbial communities were associated with obesity and that obesity would lead to reducing the diversity of microorganisms .

harris a. kassis g. major and c. j. chou is the gut micro- biota a new factor contributing to obesity and its metabolic disorders journal of obesity vol.

we evaluated the 16s rrna gene the enterotypes and quantity of the gut microbiota among obese children and the control cohort and learned the differences of the gut microbiota during the process of weight reduction in obese children.

here we recruited 87 obese children and adolescents as a case group and 56 healthy children and adolescents as a control groupfigure 1 composition comparison of fecal microbiota between theobese and control group.

finally we recommend that bifidobacterium and lactobacillus might be used as indicators of healthy conditions among obese children and adolescents as well as a kind of prebiotic and probiotic supplement in the diet to be an auxiliary treatment for obesity.ethical approvalthis study was approved by the ethics committee of guang- dong women and children hospital guangzhou guang- dong 510010 china.disclosureya-ping hou and qing-qing he are co-first authors.conflicts of interestthe authors declare no conflicts of interest.authors' contributionsall authors have materially participated in the research andor the article preparation.

to investigate the gut microbiota differences of obese children compared with the control healthy cohort to result in further understanding of the mechanism of obesity development.

dysbiosis is a form of altered gut metagenome and collected microbial activities and in combination with classic genetic and environmental factors it may promote the development of metabolic disorders 1. to deeply understand obesity and the metabolic mechanism related to gut microbiota would make an improvement in the treatment of obesity.gut microbiota dysbiosis in obese children.

impact of diet in shaping gut microbiota revealed by a comparative study in children from europe and rural africa proceedings of the national acadamy of sciences of the united states of america vol.

our results might enrich the research between gut microbiota and obesity and further provide a clinical basis for therapy for obesity.

recently proposed mechanisms about how the gut microbiota contributes to obesity including the microbiota of obese subjects had higher capacity to harvest energy from the diet providing substrates that canactivate lipogenic pathways and in addition influence the activity of lipoprotein lipase interfering in the accumulation of triglycerides in the adipose tissue the gut microbiota has been proposed as another environmental factor involved in the onset of obesity.

