there is evidence that obesity measured by bmi is not an accurate measure of adiposity in ra ra patients are prone to a higher ratio of fat to muscle mass so- called sarcopaenic obesity but debate continues about wheth- er sarcopenia is a cause or an effect of ra.

furthermore a review of the function of the oral microbiota in ra suggests that patients with arthritis have a higher prevalence of severe pd and tooth decay than healthy controls and that the severity of pd correlates with ra disease activity -.

additionally treatment of pd results in a reduction of disease activity in ra -.dna of porphyromonas gingivalis p. gingivalis prevotella intermedia p. intermedia and tannerella forsythia t. forsythia which are common in the oral flora have been detected in the synovial fluid of patients with ra.

exposure to p. gingivalis has been indirectly assessed serologically in both clinical ra and in subjects considered to be at-risk for ra development i.e.

the specific time point in the development of ra that smoking acts upon to increase risk is unknown however in the pro- spective sera project smoking was associated with rf pos- itivity in subjects enriched with hla-se but no ra symp- toms suggesting that smoking may act early in immune dys- regulation  .

furthermore recent data showing decreased responsiveness to therapy in patients with established ra who are smokers suggests a relationship between disease development and smoking even after the onset of symptomatic ra although the specific mechanisms of these relationships need further exploration .although occupational exposure has also been implicated in the lung-ra connection the cumulative data remains con- troversial.

an association between occupational silica expo- sure  was described only for seropositive ra by theclin rheumatol 2017 362645-26532647epidemiologic investigation of ra eira study .

in patients who present with polyarticular symmetric arthritis of the hands and positive rf suggestive of ra clinical and serologic findings can help distinguish between hcv and underlying ra.

there is conflicting evidence regard- ing the relationship between the severity of the initial gastro- intestinal infection and the likelihood of later developing rea where patients reporting more severe symptoms of acute en- teric illness are typically more likely to report subsequent new onset of rheumatologic symptoms as compared with those with milder or no gastrointestinal symptoms.potential for microbial manipulation antibiosis diet fecal microbiota tranplant and future strategiesseveral compounds with antibiotic properties have shown ef- ficacy in the treatment of inflammatory arthritis including minocycline in ra and sulfasalazine in ra and spa.

in a small pilot study of ra patients using probiotics as an adjunct to standard treatment an im- provement was observed in disability scores haq but not in acr20 response .microbial ecosystem therapeutics and fecal microbiota transplant fmt have not yet been tested in ra but could potentially be useful especially in spa given that ileocolonic inflammation in as may be modulated by the microbiota as discussed.

an accumulating body of evidence sup- ports the notion that an altered microbiome is a factor in the initiation and perpetuation of inflammatory arthritis including rheumatoid arthritis ra and spondyloarthritis spa.

high titers of antibodies against p. gingivalis p. intermedia and t. forsythia have also been detected in the serum and synovial fluid of ra patients .

this is of particular interest in ra as these patients are primed for developing antibodies to self-citrullinated proteins through a well-established association with the production of anti- citrullinated protein antibodies acpa .

formation of these antibodies is associated with pd in ra patients  and cross-reactivity of antibodies to p. gingivalis-derived eno- lase with human enolase has also been demonstrated.

hence in susceptible individuals p. gingivalis-citrullinated a-enolase peptides may impair tolerance to self-citrullinated proteins and elicit an autoimmune response.whether this association between the oral microbiota and ra directly impacts pathogenesis is a matter of intense re- search.

