The presence of fungi inside the closed habitat houses or any types of man-made buildings was corre- lated with the amount of the water relative humidity RH present in the environment The environmental relative moldiness index ERMI increases with elevated amounts of water The most abundant genera in common households were Alternaria Cladosporium and Epicoccum whereas Aspergillus and Penicillium were predominant in water-damaged building Similarly in this study measured RH 32 to 55 the most abun- dant fungal genera were Epiccocum Alternaria Pleos- porales and Cryptococcus which could be comparedwith the previous observations for common households.

The ILMAH was primarily commissioned to measure physiological psychological and immunological characteristics of human inhabiting in isolation but it was also available for other studies such as examining its microbiological aspects.

The internal transcribed spacer region-based iTag Illumina sequencing was employed to measure the community structure and fluctuation of the mycobiome over time in various locations.

Viable fungal families like Davidiellaceae Teratosphaeriaceae Pleosporales and Pleosporaceae were shown to increase during the occupation time.Conclusions The results of this study revealed that the overall fungal diversity in the closed habitat changed during human presence therefore it is crucial to properly maintain a closed habitat to preserve it from deteriorating and keep it safe for its inhabitants.

On a genus level Epiccocum Alternaria Pleosporales Davidiella and Cryptococcus showed increased abundance over the occupation time.Keywords Closed habitat Surface Mycobiome Succession Correspondence 1Biotechnology and Planetary Protection Group Jet Propulsion Laboratory California Institute of Technology 4800 Oak Grove Dr. MS 89-2 Pasadena CA 91109 USAFull list of author information is available at the end of the articlec The Authors.

The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver applies to the data made available in this article unless otherwise stated.BackgroundPlanning future space explorations involving potential hu- man missions to Mars would require constructing a safe closed habitat .

The environmentally controlled ILMAH is an easily accessible system that enables samples to be collected and analyzed at multiple times at relatively low cost.

The bacteriome of the ILMAH was recently reported  as in the case of most of the studies reporting on bacterial microbiomes .

The molecular fungal diver- sity of Japanese Experimental Module--Kibo on the ISS revealed abundance of fungi associated with astronauts but succession of viable fungal population in their habitat was not addressed .

The skin fungal microbiota of 10 Japanese astronauts showed temporal changes before dur- ing and after their stay on the ISS.

