here we tested the hypothesis that the abundance of archaea on human skin is influenced by human age and skin physiology by quantitative pcr of 51 different skin samples taken from human subjects of various age.

our results reveal that archaea are more abundant in human subjects either older than 60 years or younger than 12 years as compared to middle-aged human subjects.

amplicon sequencing of selected samples revealed the prevalence of specific eury- and mainly thaumarchaeal taxa represented by a core archaeome of the human skin.the human skin is our primary interface to the external environment.

by comparing 71 human subjects from urban and rural regions of shanghai in china a significantly more diverse microbial community was found on the skin of adult humans 25-35 years old relative to adolescents 12-19 years old and elderly 50-60 years old which was explained by the acclimation of the bacterial communities to changes with age in skin conditions such as skin moisture or sebum levels.the human skin microbiome consists of bacteria archaea eukaryotes and viruses.

these issues in addition to the difficulties in cultivating archaea and microorganisms from skin have led to an underestimation of the presence of skin archaea and their role in human skin health and disease is still a mystery.first indications of a possibly larger role of skin-associated archaea arose from studying the microbiome in well-controlled cleanroom facilities that are predominantly influenced by human skin microbiota .

thus we conclude that there exists causality between age and the percent archaea on human skin.ftir hyperspectral imaging allows a dna-independent detection and chemistry understand- ing of archaea in human skin-wipe samples.

until now the presence of archaea on human skin has been largely overlooked in human microbiome research.

halococcus signatures have already been reported to be present in human gut samples  and halalkalicoccus has been placed in context with human skin microbiome due to the frequent appearance in cleanrooms that are populated by skin micro- organisms.

our study provides evidence that specific eury- and mainly thaumarchaeal taxa are associated with human skin represented by a core archaeome of the human skin.

in particular the amount of archaeal 16s rrna genes was significantly higher in human subjects older than 60 years and younger than 12 years compared to middle-aged human beings.

gastroenterology 140 1713-1719 2011.oh j. conlan s. polley e. c. segre j. a.  kong h. h. shifts in human skin and nares microbiota of healthy children and adults.genome med 4 77 2012.giacomoni p. u. mammone t.  teri m. gender-linked differences in human skin.

openreceived 19 january 2017accepted 10 may 2017 published xx xx xxxxhuman age and skin physiology shape diversity and abundance of archaea on skinchristine moissl-eichinger12 alexander j. probst3 giovanni birarda 47 anna auerbach5 kaisa koskinen12 peter wolf6  hoi-ying n. holman7the human skin microbiome acts as an important barrier protecting our body from pathogens and other environmental influences.

recent investigations have provided evidence that archaea are a constant but highly variable component of the human skin microbiome yet factors that determine their abundance changes are unknown.

the baby's microbiome changes rapidly within the first months devel- ops further in the following years and reaches an adult microbiome composition at sexual maturity .the effect of sex on the human microbiome was found to substantially influence the microbial community composition of skin most likely due to different steroid productions .

so far only a few studies reported the occasional detection of archaea on human skin- thaumarchaeota have been detected in a study of palms of two individuals whereas three different phylotypes of archaea two methanogens and one halophilic archaeon appeared marginally in a large subset of bacterial sequences obtained from samples of 60 navels.

