onthe other hand a c. parvum infection in immunocompetent individuals provokes acute diarrhea as the major symptom which can be severe in infants under five the most frequent population affected by a symptomatic infection.

since a complete lack of th1 cyto- kines in mice guarantees a lethal outcome during a t. gondii infection and frequently leads to the same effect during a c. parvum infection the main role of th2 cytokines is probably to modulate the strong th1 cytokine response .what is known about the effect of intestinal microbiota on the capacity or incapacity of these two intracellular in- testinal parasites to survive and persist intestinal bacteria compete very efficiently for space and nutrients in the gut which apparently is the first defense mechanism against pathogen colonization.

hence intestinal bacteria perhaps carry out a similar function during infection with this parasite as that observed in the process of a t. gondii infection .interestingly the absence of intestinal commensal bacte- ria impeded the development of ileitis after a t. gondii infec- tion in wild type mice  supporting the idea that intestinal microbiota contributes to the development of immunopathology in the gut.

hence the elimination of some factors that contribute to the development of the th1 response diminishes the negative effects of the immunopathology during a t. gon- dii intestinal infection .significant changes take place in the composition of the microbiota during a t. gondii infection.

this in turn leads to colonization and persistence of infection .the metabolism and composition of bacteria in the mi- crobiota is affected not only by infection with bacteria nematodes and protozoa but also by aspects of our modernfigure 1. potential therapeutic benefits of the protozoa-microbiota-immunity relationship.

in- testinal microbes can protect against infection by pathogenic bacteria viruses fungi and parasites.

although the mechanisms governing the interaction between intestinal mi- crobiota and protozoa are poorly understood it is known that the composition of the in- testinal bacterial populations modulates the progression of protozoan infection and the outcome of parasitic disease.

most reports on the complex interactions between intestinal bacteria protozoa and the immune system emphasize the protective role of the microbiota against protozoan infection.

the empty ecological niche left by this change has been occupied by other commensal or pathogenic intestinal protozoa .globally the most prevalent pathogenic protozoa are in order of frequency of infection blastocystis spp 2e70 giardia duodenalis 5e20 the entamoeba histolyticae.

whereas the prevalence of infection in mexico of cryptosporidium is around 3 recent studies in devel- oped countries have found that there might be slight differ- ences in the frequency of intestinal parasitic infections depending on sociodemographic and cultural characteristics of particular communities .in general intestinal parasitic infections due to protozoa represent a key component of the burden of infectious dis- ease worldwide constituting an important public health problem in most underdeveloped countries.

since the composition of the intestinal bacterial pop- ulation modulates the progression of protozoan the regula- tion of different components of the microbiota could be used to prevent or attenuate intestinal protozoan infection and ultimate outcome of parasitic disease.

in mexico the prevalence of this parasite has gradual raised to its current level of about 60 .the increased prevalence of blastocystis today is linked to clear changes in the composition of the microbiota in the human host and coincides with the decrease in the prevalence of helminth infection and morbidity in mexico a change that began in 1995 when the massive deworming program for schoolchildren was launched.

blastocystis infection was previously considered as an opportunistic dis- ease associated with human immunodeficiency or occa- sionally found in patients suffering from irritable bowel syndrome ibs or chronic inflammatory bowel disease ibd .

parvum is localized in the small intestine t. gondii is able to invade extra-intestinal organs the cns and other tissues muscles .after parasites transmigrate into the intestinal lumen neutrophils recruited to the site of infection transport them to other villi .

following t. gondii dissemination in the intestine and its infection of neutrophils and other phago- cytic cells such as dendritic cells it can invade the lamina propria and eventually reach the nervous system and muscular tissue.

