s3b and s3c.lang et al.page 10similarly to apcmin mice these findings were rather unexpected as cytoplasmic hur is considered to be active and studies using ms-444 report of a retention of hur in the nucleus upon ms-444 treatment 21 35. however ms-444 is known to inhibit hur dimerization21 and retention of its monomeric form of formerly active hur due to an inhibition of reimport may explain cytoplasmic hur increase upon ms-444 treatment in vivo.hur inhibition alters cytokine response and eosinophil count in aomdss micegross examination of aomdss-treated intestines revealed no difference in inflammation upon ms-444 treatment except for a slight decrease in lymphoid follicles data not shown.

in that context ms-444 has been shown to inhibit myosin light- chain kinase mlck in vitro 43. in our study no obviously dilated jejuni nor compacted feces in the cecum of apcmin mice were found as characteristic for smooth muscle-specific mlck knockout mice as a result of gut dysmotility 44. also smooth muscle layer thickness within the jejunum and weight gain as a measure for muscle wasting was not different between sham- and ms-444-treated apcmin mice supplementary fig.

ms-444 administration decreased the number of apoptotic cellstumor fov in the large bowel of aomdss mice a and b but not in small bowel tumors of apcmin mice p 0.333 c and d. representative images of tunel-positive cells green of control toplang et al.page 27and ms-444-treated bottom mice are shown.

currently we cannot specify the cell types upon which ms-444 is acting but assume that its block of apoptosis is a major contributor to the increase in tumor burden.in contrast to aomdss mice ms-444 treatment in apcmin mice led to a 25 reduction in small intestinal tumors without a change in tumor size or invasiveness fig.

a direct relationship between decreased il18 levels and increased prevotellaceae abundance or other microbes still needs to be determined.hur is not only implicated in mrna stability regulation of thousands of mrnas but has been shown by photoactivatable ribonucleoside enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation par-clip to bind also to intronic sequences suggesting hur to be involved in splicing as shown in hela and hek293 cells 53 54. furthermore par-clip revealed mirna-binding sites in close proximity to hur-binding sites 53-55. whether ms-444 administration affects intronic binding and potential splicing functions of hur or regulation of mirna expression is yet to be determined.in summary systemic administration of ms-444 alters the profile of inflammatory mediators proliferation and apoptosis in the two mouse models investigated being favorable in apcmin mice and deleterious in aomdss mice for intestinal tumor progression see also summary fig.

in this context intestinal specific deletion of hur in colorectal cancer models was reported to reduce small intestinal proliferation and resulted in a 3- and 2-fold decrease in tumor burden in apcmin mice and aomdss mice respectively 18. in contrast however myeloid cell-specific deletion of hur exacerbated chemically induced colitis and cac while myeloid cell-specific hur overexpression protected mice from cac 19. postnatal deletion leads to atrophy of hematopoietic organs loss of intestinal villi enterocolitis and death 16.these data are indicative of a cell-type-specific influence of hur activity on physiologic and pathologic processes complicating the extrapolation of these results for clinical translation using a systemic inhibitor.

measurements were carried out in duplicates.lang et al.page 6intestinal microbiota analysisfecal pellets were sampled from aomdss-treated mice one day before the aom injection and the day before colonoscopy from apcmin mice one day before colonoscopy from individual mice.

postnatal global deletion of hur s leads to massive cell apoptosis in the small intestine 16 and aomdss treatment in mice conditionally deleted for intestinal epithelial hur huriko also results in increased apoptosis compared with hurff mice 18. to investigate the effect of hur inhibition on apoptosis terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dutp nick end labeling tunel staining was performed and the number of apoptotic cells was assessed in tumors of aomdss and apcmin mice.

ihc analysis of c-myc expression in large bowel tumors of aomdss mice b small intestinal tumors of apcmin mice c and ki-67 expression in small intestinal crypts of aomdss mice d was performed.

3e.hur inhibition attenuates tumorigenesis in apcmin micehere we treated 5- to 6-week-old female and male apcmin mice with ms-444 similar to aomdss mice fig.

s2b.ms-444 increases cytoplasmic hur levels in polyps of apcmin mice and in an acute colitis modelanalysis of hur subcellular distribution in small bowel tumors of apcmin mice revealed an increased cytoplasmic abundance upon ms-444 treatment in apcmin tumors as shown by ihc supplementary fig.

the effect of ms-444 treatment in apcmin mice was also visible in a principal coordinates analysis pcoa which shows how different microbiota composition is between samples beta diversity but not in aomdss mice fig.

such discrepancy was also observed in mice as the low molecular weight hur inhibitor ms-444 increased tumor burden in the aomdss colitis model but reduced number of tumors in apcmin mice.

uponms-444 the number of eosinophils was significantly reduced upon ms-444 in aomdss- treated mice d top but not in apcmin mice e top.

in contrast in an acute colitis model in which c57bl6j mice 5 each group received a 3 dss solution for 5 days and biweekly injections of 10 or 25 mgkg ms-444 after aom injection hur shifted from the nucleus to the cytoplasm with increasing ms-444 concentrations supplementary fig.

