through simulations and real data examples we showed that our approach had better per- formance than the single-end or paired-end approach in quan- tifying the microbial diversity and taxonomic abundance due to the full use of the information in the paired-end reads.based on the size of 16s amplicons and the length of the paired-end reads we could have overlapping or nonoverlap- ping paired-end reads.

to integrate information from both paired-end and single- end reads we propose hybrid-denovo a pipeline that combines paired-end and single-end reads in order to retain the advan- tages of de novo otu-picking while maximizing the ability to de- tect rare taxa.methodshybrid-denovo first constructs an otu backbone using only paired-end reads.

for example sequencing of the v4 region 252 nt 515f806r primers produces overlapping paired-end reads while sequencing of the v3-v5 region 694 nt f357r926 primers results in nonoverlapping paired-end reads using illu- mina miseq 250 bp x 2. as qiime and mothur currently do not support de novo otu-picking based on nonoverlapping paired- end reads the main advantage of our pipeline lies in the abil- ity to process nonoverlapping paired-end reads.

however our pipeline could also be applied to overlapping paired-end reads by using pandaseq  to stitch the paired-end reads together.it is noted that some existing pipelines could also process a mix- ture of paired-end and single-end reads with different capac- ities.

gigascience 7 2018 1-7doi 10.1093gigasciencegix129advance access publication date 15 december 2017 technical notete ch n i c a l n o t ehybrid-denovo a de novo otu-picking pipeline integrating single-end and paired-end 16s sequence tagsxianfeng chen stephen johnson patricio jeraldo junwen wang nicholas chia jean-pierre a kocherand jun chen1department of health sciences research and center for individualized medicine and 2department of surgery mayo clinic 200 1st st sw rochester mn 55905 usacorrespondence address jun chen department of health sciences research and center for individualized medicine mayo clinic 200 1st st sw rochester mn 55905. tel 1-507-293-2832 fax 1-507-284-0745 e-mail abstractbackground illumina paired-end sequencing has been increasingly popular for 16s rrna gene-based microbiota profiling.

results to have both the higher phylogenetic resolution provided by paired-end reads and the higher sequence coverage by single-end reads we propose a novel otu-picking pipelinehybrid-denovo that can process a hybrid of single-end and paired-end reads.

using high-quality paired-end reads as a gold standard we show that hybrid-denovo achieved the highest correlation with the gold standard and performed better than the approaches based on paired-end or single-end reads in terms of quantifying the microbial diversity and taxonomic abundances.

conclusions hybrid-denovo utilizes both paired-end and single-end 16s sequencing reads and is recommended for 16s rrna gene targeted paired-end sequencing data.keywords microbiome otu picking 16s rrnaintroductionthe microbiome plays an important role in global ecology nutrient cycling and disease .

for the paired-end approach genera with low abundance exhibited a lower corre- lation indicating the decreased quantification accuracy due to loss of paired-end reads.we also compared hybrid-denovo with mothur and qiime the 2 predominant pipelines for 16s data based on the gold standard data set.

however the reverse read r2 often has significant low base quality and a large proportion of r2s will be discarded after quality control resulting in a mixture of paired-end and single-end reads.

a typical 16s analysis pipeline usually processes either paired-end orsingle-end reads but not a mixture.

as a result rare taxa may not be detectable with the paired-end approach or low taxonomic resolution will result in a single-end approach.

by applying our method to a rheumatoid arthritis ra data set we demonstrated that hybrid-denovo captured more microbial diversity and identified more ra-associated taxa than a paired-end or single-end approach.

reference-based approaches can get around this limitation but rely on a preexisting set of otu representatives that may or may not be appropriate for a particular dataset .to perform a de novo approach one of the challenges pre- sented by illumina paired-end reads is that the reverse read r2 often has a much lower base quality than the forward read r1.

we are then left with a smaller set of high-fidelity paired-end reads r1- r2 and a deeper set of single-end reads r1.

