p  0.05 vs control animals.enhanced glp-1 secretion enhanced insulin secretion improved glucose tolerance and reduced feeding.when examining the direct effect of a secretagogue on glp-1 secretion it is important to demonstrate the effect using a treatment concentration within the physiological range.

media with vehicle served as a control for baseline secretion and forskolin was used as a positive control for glp-1 secretion data not shown.

p  0.05 was considered significant.resultsh2s donors stimulate glp-1 secretion in vitroto determine the direct effect of h2s on glp-1 secretion glutag cells were treated with an h2s donor nahs or gyy4137 or with vehicle media for 2 hours.

all h2s donors used did not reduce cell viability as shown by the neutral red assay 1c.p38 mapk is involved in h2s-stimulated glp-1 secretion in vitroto determine potential intracellular mechanisms in-volved in the enhanced glp-1 secretion by h2s we treated glutag cells with the most effective dose of nahs 10 mm for 10 minutes and examined the phosphory- lation of p38 mapk and akt by western blot.

no secretion in- hibition was observed at higher doses of the inhibitor 100 to 1000 nm data not shown.table 1.antibodies usedantigenspecies raisedpeptideproteinsequencename ofin monoclonaldilutionabbreviation rrid research resource identifier.figure 1. effects of h2s on glp-1 secretion and cell viability in glutag cells.

the prebiotic treatment group had a 1.50 6 0.03-fold increase of colonic content h2s 0.81 mmolg compared with control p  0.05 3c.chondroitin sulfate prebiotic diet improves oral glucose clearance enhances glp-1 response and reduces feedingto determine if the chondroitin sulfate-induced in-crease in srb and h2s coincided with incretin and metabolic changes glucose tolerance glp-1 secretion insulin secretion and food consumption were examined.

indeed endocrine cell priming has been described in other cells such as b-cells and ghrelin cells along with increased glp-1 secretion we observed improved insulin secretion improved glucose toleranceand reduced food consumption in the chondroitin sul- fate animals.

hydrogen sulfide and sulfate prebiotic stimulates the secretion of glp-1 and improves glycemia in male micejennifer pichette1 nancy fynn-sackey1 and jeffrey gagnon11laurentian university department of biology sudbury ontario p3e 2c6 canadarecently the gastrointestinal microbiome and its metabolites has emerged as a potential regulator of host metabolism.

we hypothesized that h2s can directly regulate glp-1 secretion.

we demonstrated that h2s donors nahs and gyy4137 directly stimulate glp-1 secretion in murine l-cells glutag and that this occurs through p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase without affecting cell viability.

these animals also had enhanced glp-1 and insulin secretion improved oral glucose tolerance and re- duced food consumption.

these results indicate that h2s plays a stimulatory role in glp-1 secretion and that sulfate prebiotics can enhance glp-1 release and its downstream metabolic actions.

indole an end product of bacterial tryptophan break- down stimulates glp-1 secretion in acute treatments in vitro .

glp-1 secretion food consumption and glucose tolerance were then examined in mice with enhanced srb and h2s levels.materials and methodsanimalsexperiments were performed following the guidelines out- lined by the canadian council on animal care guide to the care and use of experimental animals animal protocols were approved by the laurentian university animal care committee.

sodium hydrosulfide nahs increased glp-1 secretion p  0.05 one-way anova with the highest dose of nahs 10 mm causing a 1.98 6 0.2-fold increase a. gyy4137 also caused a significant increase of glp-1 levels p  0.05 one-way anova with the highest dose of gyy4137 100 mm producing a 2.2 6 0.21-fold increase of glp-1 .

