in the context of iron metabolism this redox reaction is essential for iron absorption since non-heme iron is usually in the form of feiii which cannot be absorbed by enterocytes until it has been reduced to feii.the ferric-reducing activity of l. fermentum was measured through its incubation with feiii and ferrozine by monitoring the formation of the feii complex with the chelator feiifz3 through the appearance and increase of its characteristic uv-vis band at 562 nm.

in a second experiment a 25 lm concentration of each reducing molecule was used.in vitro experiment on iron internalization in enterocyte cellsusing a 0.2 lm minisart rc filter and the total iron concentration feii and feiii measured by icp-oes.statistical analysisthe ferric-reducing activity of hpla versus la p-mph and the mixture la  p-mph and the in vitro experiment on iron internal- ization in enterocyte cells were conducted in triplicates.

the results showed that hpla exhibits high ferric-reducing activity only at low ph.ferric-reducing activity of l. fermentum after hpla additionthe ferric-reducing capacity of l. fermentum was measured as indicated above after incubation for 6 and 24 h. hpla 3.6 lm was added to the supernatant obtained after centrifugation of the 6 h culture and the ferric-reducing activity of the resulting mixture was measured.

related studies report that low molecular weight fractions exhibiting ferric-reducing activity in human milk enhance iron absorption in newborns  .hpla contains two chemical moieties with potential reducing feiii activity the terminal lactic acid and the phenol group.

the feiii reduction is referred to the concentration of feiii a or the reducing molecules b. error bars - sd.feiii um400300200100012367therefore hpla exhibits extraordinary ferric-reducing activity and increases enterocyte iron uptake.

in this ferrireduction hpla gets oxidized to 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate which would get back to hpla via the corresponding lactobacillus hydroxyacid dehydrogenase that way explaining the apparent regeneration of the ferric-reducing activity already mentioned.once hpla was identified as the molecule responsible for the ferric-reducing activity of l. fermentum a study of its ability to reduce feiii to feii as a function of ph was carried out.

when the experiment was done in excess of feiii towards the reducing molecules the ferric-reducing activity vs. time revealed that hpla seems to reduce feiii first by the la moiety and then by p-mph a. feiii reduction versus time shows that the reduction by hpla follows the same pattern as la in the initial steps.

adequate iron levels in the blood are partially maintained by recycling the iron released upon the degradation of iron-containing proteins especially hemoglobin.heme-iron present in hemoglobin and myoglobin has high bioavailability  however the majority of iron in food 90 is in non-heme forms either as free iron or bound to low molecular-weight biomolecules  .

the concentra- tion of total iron feii and feiii of the solutions was measured at two different times 30 and 300 min by icp-oes to evaluate the amount of iron internalized into the cells.the first conclusion drawn from these data is that l. fermentum and its supernatant liquid significantly increased iron absorption by enterocytes.

the results clearly indicate that the capacity of hpla to reduce feiii is double than that of la and of p-mph and is close to the capacity of the mixture of both b. therefore the combination of both chemical moieties lactic acid and phenol makes hpla an extraordinary feiii reduc- ing molecule.an in vitro experiment of iron uptake by enterocytes in the pres- ence of hpla was performed to test whether hpla could be related to the effect on iron absorption by probiotic bacteria .

we have demonstrated that the increase of iron absorption in the presence of probiotic bacteria is related to the ferric-reducing activity of excreted molecules.these results are a huge step towards solving the enigma of why probiotic bacteria increase iron absorption.

this molecule efficiently reduces feiii to feii at acidic ph.from the results described here we propose that the increase of iron absorption in humans due to the presence of probiotic bacte- ria in gut flora could be related not only to the decrease of ph caused by these lactic acid bacteria  but also to the ferric-reducing activity of the excreted hpla.

the ferric-reducing activity of hpla 3.6 lm in the medium grown was used as control.ferric-reducing activity of hpla versus lactic acid lap-methylphenol p-mph and the mixture p-methylphenol and lactic acid la  p-mphtwo different experimental conditions were assayed excess and deficiency of feiii with respect to the reducing molecules.

to get insight into the mechanism of the ferric-reducing activity of hpla we compared the hpla ability to reduce feiii at acidic ph with that of its pure chemical moieties namely lactic acid la and p-methylphenol p-mph and the mixture of bothwith l. fermentum and enterocytes with the supernatant the excreted molecules reduce iron concentrations to less than half those of the controls.

likewise the addition of hpla to the 6 h culture medium gives rise to a ferric-reducing activity close to that of the 24 h culture medium indicating that hpla is continuously excreted during the bacterial growth from 6 to 24 h and that this molecule is responsible for the ferric-reducing activ- ity of l. fermentum.interestingly hpla seems to be a specific reductant of feiii.

