microbiome 2017 5148doi 10.1186s40168-017-0368-1identifying predictive features of clostridium difficile infection recurrence before during and after primary antibiotic treatmentsepideh pakpour123 amit bhanvadia46 roger zhu56 abhimanyu amarnani6 sean m. gibbons123 thomas gurry123 eric j. alm123 and laura a. martello6backgroundclostridium difficile infection cdi is an urgent public health priority worldwide -and despite progress in in- fection control and innovative options for treatment of cdi until recently there has been a steady and considerable ele- vation in its incidence as well as its reported severity of ill- ness - known factors associated with cdi include hospitalization advanced age antibiotic prescription and gastrointestinal surgery in addition to those less agreed upon such as proton pump inhibitor therapy -.standard management of cdi involves the administration of antibiotic therapy such as metronidazole and vanco- mycin  but 22.4 and 14.2 of patients have been ob- served to have no response to metronidazole and vancomycin respectively 6. of the remaining patients with positive responses to antibiotic therapy 30 have shown cdi relapses   .

we hypothesize that patients who did not show recurrence were able to recover towards an invasion-resistant community configuration  com- pared to patients who showed infection recurrence but the exact configuration of this invasion-resistant state re- mains unclear.

microbial relationships be- tween disease severity index infection recurrence and other collected metadata were evaluated by spearman correlation with a false discovery rate fdr correction.overall microbial community diversity a-diversity was measured using the shannon entropy significant difference in a-diversity between groups pa- tients with and without recurrence was determined using the mann-whitney u test.

exclusion cri- teria for participation included history of inflammatory bowel disease crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis and total or subtotal colectomy.a total of 31 individuals experiencing their first episode of cdi median age 64.0 years interquartile range 60.0- 73.0 51.6 female were enrolled between march 2014 and april 2015. participants were followed at regular intervals beginning at the time of diagnosis before the administration of antibiotics treatment pre-treatment n  31 2 days after the start of antibiotics treatment post-treatment n  31 7 days after the start of antibiotics treatment or at the time of discharge whichever was earlier pre-discharge n  18 followed by the fourth stool samples collected 2 weeks after the start of antibiotics 4 days after treatment completion post-discharge n  9. severity of cdis were assessed early in the course of the disease to adapt medical management using the university of pittsburgh medical center upmc index version 2 where a upmc score lower than 2 indicated moderate cdi and a score equal or greater than 2 indicated severe cdi.

treatment failure and recurrence of clostridium difficile infection following treatment with vancomycin or metronidazole a systematic review of the evidence.

age sex bmi pre-cdi antibiotic therapy ppi as determined by fdr-corrected spearman correlations.our results surprisingly showed larger difference be- tween patients with and without recurrence before treatment compared to after treatment.

the discriminatory power of otus genera and families were calculated as the area under the roc curve auc in each case.resultsthis longitudinal study enrolled 31 patients experiencing their first episode of clostridium difficile infection cdi seven of whom met the criteria of severe or com- plicated disease upmc score  2  the patient population was mostly of afro-caribbean descent and 54.8 of them were taking proton pump inhibitors additional file 16s rrna gene analyses at the pre- treatment level revealed random clustering of moder- ately infected patients with both healthy individuals and those with severe disease fig.

however gut micro- bial communities in patients with severe infection were significantly dissimilar when compared to healthy indi- viduals permanova p value  0.004. over the course of antibiotic treatment gut microbial community structures in infected patients moderate and severe be- came gradually more similar to each other with greater distance from controls fig.

singleton reads were removed from the data- set and chimeras were eliminated using the uparse-otu algorithm  closed reference otu picking was employed by aligning unique reads to the greengenes otu database at 99 identity may 2013 release using the usearch algorithm  4. representative se- quences for each otu were aligned using pynast with a minimum alignment overlap of 75 bp  and a phylogen- etic tree was built using fasttree 2.0 of the 89 col- lected stool samples a total of 6754571 high-quality sequence reads were identified representing 6160 otus for downstream analyses.

spe- cific questions included 1 are there any associations between severity of cdi microbial or demographic fea- tures and cdi recurrence and 2 can we use microbial or demographic features at the time of diagnosis or after treatment to predict cdi recurrence the meta-analysis was done between our dataset and a recently published dataset with similar sample collection dna extraction primer selection and sequencing methods.

-d. at the phylum level before treatment pa- tients with recurrence had lower abundance of bacteroi- detes than subjects without recurrence fig.

gut microbiome predictors of treatment response and recurrence in primary clostridium difficile infection.

follow-up data confirmed infection recurrence in 32 of patients with no significant relationship with disease severity index or any other metadata variable e.g.

which also aimed to find microbial fingerprints predicting the risk of recurrence after success- ful treatment in patients with primary cdi more infor- mation on both studies can be found in table .sequence data and sample metadata shared by the ori- ginal authors were downloaded from the ncbi sequence read archive sra accession number srp087648.

more specific- ally when we compared microbial diversity and commu- nity structure of patients with and without recurrence 16s rrna gene data demonstrated a significant differ- ence at the pre-treatment stage in a-diversity measured by shannon's entropy between these groups of patients mann-whitney u test p value  0.026 fig.

