during the peak of the alexandrium bloom the relative abundances of proteobacteria and bacteroidetes weresignificantly t-test p  0.01 greater than during the dinophysis bloom while the relative abundances of 'unassigned' sequences were significantly t-test p  0.001 lower b. at the order level 'unassigned' 41 flavobacteriales 18 and sar11 clade 13 account for 72 of the differences seen between the two bloom communities simper average dissimilarity  22.36 c. the relative abundances of flavobacteriales and the sar11 clade were significantly t-test p  0.01 greater during the alexandrium bloom compared to during the dinophysis bloom c. at the genus level the ns5 marine group 11 and an uncultured bacterium rhodobacteracea 11 were the dominant sequences during the peak of the alexandrium bloom while the peak of the dinophysis bloom was dominated by 'unassigned' sequences 21 .phytoplankton and bacterial assemblages differed across sizefractions 0.2 mm vs. 20 mm during the peak of the alexandrium 9 may and dinophysis 27 june blooms .

identification of unique microbiomes associated with harmful algal blooms caused by alexandrium fundyense and dinophysis acuminatatheresa k. hattenrath-lehmann christopher j. goblerstony brook university school of marine and atmospheric sciences southampton ny 11968 usaa r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 30 january 2017received in revised form 13 july 2017 accepted 14 july 2017available online 24 july 2017keywords alexandrium bacteria dinophysis habmicrobiome microbial sequencinga b s t r a c tbiotic interactions dominate plankton communities yet the microbial consortia associated with harmful algal blooms habs have not been well-described.

in addition none of these studies has used experimental approaches to understand the factors driving changes in planktonic commu- nities associated with habs and the bacterial assemblages associated with the dsp-producing dinoflagellate dinophysis have yet to be described.here high-throughput amplicon sequencing was used to assessbacterial 16s and phytoplankton assemblages 18s associated with the harmful algae alexandrium fundyense and dinophysis acuminata during successive toxic blooms in northport bay ny usa.

select sample dates were used to compare phytoplankton and bacterial assemblages in the 0.2 and 20 mm size fractions at the peaks of both the alexandrium 9 may and dinophysis 27 juneblooms to compare free-living and particle-associated bacterial assemblages.cultures and culturing conditionslocally isolated cultures alexandrium fundyense npb8 north- port bay ny and dinophysis acuminata meetinghouse creek ny were used for this study  .

the red and blue boxes represent the dates included in the peaks of the alexandrium and dinophysis blooms respectively.22.8 1.4 0c and 23.4 0.3 during the peak of the dinophysis bloom 21 june-6 july.

in contrast to alexandrium during the peak of the dinophysis bloom dinophysis represented the majority of algal sequences 24-70 .

the peak of the dinophysis bloom 27 june was dominated by dinophyceae 90 specifically dinophysis acuminata 70 in both the 0.2 and 20 mm size fractions a and b. the relative abundances of proteobacteria and bacteroidetes shifted from 44 to 53 and 28 to 17 in the 0.2 and 20 mm size fractions respectively c. at the order-level the major drivers of differences simper between the size fractions were the rickettsiales flavobacteriales and rhodobacterales which shifted from 3 to 13 22 to 13 and 15 to 7 in the 0.2 and 20 mm size fractions respectively d.filtrate experiments using natural communitiesthe addition of alexandrium filtrate significantly altered both bacterial and phytoplankton assemblages of northport bay .

the addition of dinophysis filtrate caused no significant changes in the relative abundances among bacterial or phytoplankton sequences at any level of classification.bacterial assemblages associated with culturesthe relative abundances of bacterial sequences differed between size fractions in both alexandrium and dinophysis cultures .

further while the microbiome of dinophysis prey in culture may alter the bacterial communities given the high similarity of the bacterial communities in the two size fractions in culture  it would seem the prey do not appreciably contribute to dinophysis microbiomes.

the single exception to this was bacteria from the dinophysis experiment dinoadd where the control and filtrate treatment grouped closely to each other and were not significantly different  supporting the hypothesis that dinophysis has weaker control of bacterial communities compared to alexandrium.

regardless bacterial communities do seem to play a significant role in dinophysis survival as the addition of antibiotics was found to be lethal to dinophysis cultures .

at the genus-level field- based samples including experiments were more closely related to one another than both cultures with the dinophysis culture being more similar to the field samples than the alexandrium culture a finding likely related to the presence of antibiotics in alexandrium but not in dinophysis cultures .

here high-throughput amplicon sequencing of ribosomal genes was used to quantify the dynamics of bacterial 16s and phytoplankton assemblages 18s associated with blooms and cultures of two harmful algae alexandrium fundyense and dinophysis acuminata.

while flavobacteria also dominated dinophysis-associated communities the relative abundance of alteromonadales bacteria strongly co-varied with dinophysis abundances during blooms and ulvibacter spp.

the presence of alexandrium in field samples and in experiments significantly altered the relative abundances of bacterial and phytoplankton by both suppressing and promoting different taxa while this effect was weaker in dinophysis.

