data analyses were performed using spss statistical package for the social sciences 13.0 software spss inc. usa.resultsgut histological analysish  e staining showed no significant injury in the gut of zebrafish when exposed to 1000 mgl imz for 21 days a b. however the results of ab-pas staining of the gut indicated that the secretion of mucin in the gut decreased when the zebrafish was exposed to 1000 mg l imz for 21 days c d.effects of imz exposure on the structure of gut microbiota detected by quantitative real-time pcr and 16s rrna gene sequencingat the phylum level the abundance of bacteroidetes was sig- nificantly reduced after exposure to 1000 mgl imz a. ad- ditionally the relative abundance of proteobacteria also tended to de- crease a. to further determine the changes in gut microbiota composition we used high-throughput sequencing of 16s rrna.

while the composition of fusobacteria and firmicutes increased after imz exposure and the former increased from 1.46 to 32.61 the latter increased from 4.97 to 13.64 and the abundance of bacteroidetes was decreased from 5.89 to 4.05 respectively b. based on principal analysis it was observed that the com- ponents of the gut microbiota in zebrafish were shifted by high con- centration of imz exposure c. in addition the shannon diversity indexes also suggested that the bacterial diversity of the gut microbiota was affected by imz d.in addition at genus level the composition of gut microbiota of zebrafish also changed significantly after 1000 mgl imz exposure e. the abundances of 29 types of microorganisms including rhodobacter alistipes bacteroides shewanella stenotrophomonas bra- dyrhizobium brevundimonas bosea aeromonas acinetobacter and my- coplasma were changed significantly in the gut after imz exposure for 21 days.effects of imz exposure on metabolism in the liver as detected by gc msafter exposure to 1000 mgl imz for 21 days hepatic metabolomics was analyzed by gcms based technology.

a relative abundance of proteobacteria firmicutes bacteroidetes verrucomicrobia and actinobacteria in zebrafish gut after exposure to imz 21 days b composition profiles of gut microbiota at the phylum level in the control group and imz-1000-treated groups c unifrac principal component analysis pcoa estimates of gut microbiota of the control and imz-1000-treated groups d shannon indexes of gut microbiota of the control and imz-1000-treated groups e heat map of specimens showing the relative abundance of the main identified bacteria at the genus taxonomic level of the control and imz groups.

globular and mucous cells exert an important protective effect on the barrier function of microbes.in this study it was observed that exposure to 1000 mgl imz for 21 days not only influenced gut mucin secretion but also induced gut microbiota dysbiosis in adult zebrafish indicating that the gut and gut microbiota were also the potential targets of imz.

these results indicated that imz can influence both the gut function and composition of gut microbiota in adult zebrafish.the gut and liver have a common embryonic origin - the foregutintestinal lymphocytes originate from the developing liver and these two organs are associated with anatomical and biological functions .

in zebrafish the gut microbiota plays some critical roles in the nutrition development metabolism and immunity of the host  corresponding author at college of biotechnology and bioengineering zhejiang university of technology 18 chaowang road hangzhou china.e-mail address y. jin.received 19 july 2017 received in revised form 20 august 2017 accepted 29 august 20171532-0456c2017elsevierinc.allrightsreserved.. generally the composition of gut microbiota is relative stable but it could be influenced by diet medicineantibiotics age and even pesticide and other environmental pollutants  .

in all experi- ments the fish were anesthetized on ice before dissection.histopathological observationafter 21 days of exposure with 1000 mgl imz a portion of the middle gut was fixed in 10 formalin at 4 degc for 24 h. subsequently the fixed gut tissues were dehydrated in gradient ethanol hyalinized in xylene and embedded in paraffin wax at 56 degc.

some previous studies reported that the gut microbiota could interfere with the host energy metabolism   indicated that gut microbiota was tightly related to the metabolism of the host.

imazalil exposure induces gut microbiota dysbiosis and hepatic metabolism disorder in zebrafishcuiyuan jin ting luo zhihong zhu zihong pan jiajing yang wenchao wang zhengwei fu yuanxiang jincollege of biotechnology and bioengineering zhejiang university of technology hangzhou 310032 chinaa r t i c l e i n f o keywordsimazalilgut microbiota metabolism zebrafisha b s t r a c t the fungicide imazalil imz is used extensively to preserve freshness prevent decay and control fungal infec- tions in fruits vegetables or other plants.

here male adult zebrafish were exposed to 100 and 1000 mgl imz for 1 7 21 days and the gut microbiota and hepatic metabolism were evaluated.

exposure to a high concentration of imz for 21 days decreased mucin secretion in the gut.

sequencing of the v3-v4 region of the bacterial 16s rrna gene revealed a significant increase in the diversity of gut microbiota in male zebrafish.

at the phylum level the composition of proteobacteria and bacteroidetes was decreased while those fusobacteria and firmicutes increased in the gut after exposure to 1000 mgl imz for 21 days.

these results indicated that exposure to imz could cause gut microbiota dysbiosis and metabolic dis- orders in adult zebrafish.introductionin the past few decades fungicides have been widely used in agri- culture and industry for economic benefit.

as a fungicide imz may can influence the composition of gut microbiota however no related study was reported.

