thus whereas the edss score improved in the hvlp diet patients this parameter declined in wd patients with a significant difference being observed between the two groups p  0.001. notably the overall number ofdisease relapses during the 12 months follow-up period wasunmodified in the hvlp diet patients but increased signifi- cantly in the wd patients vs. enrollment p  0.04. clinical relapses were observed during the 12 months follow-up period in 910 wd patients but only in 310 of the hvlp diet patients p  0.0005 the difference between the two groups in relapse rate at the 12 months follow-up visit was statistically significant p  0.03. these results are shown in .discussiondiet plays an essential role in shaping the composition of the gut microbiome  and the gut microbiota modulates the status of the immune response .

moreover the taxa namelycoprococcus eutactus p  0.3 ruminococcus lactaris p  0.03 and a sequence of an as-yet unclassified lachnospiraceae strain p  0.03 roseburia intestinalis p  0.03 and a hungatella- related unknown lachnospiraceae member p  0.04 appeared to be more abundant in hvlp table s1 in supplementary material.notably although being suggestive of a role for the different dietary regimens in the changes in the microbiota composition as baseline samples were not collected it is not possible to definitely state that such changes are the direct consequence of the dietary regimens.immune parametersimmune parameters were analyzed in all the individuals at enroll- ment i.e.

results showed in hvlp diet alone the presence of significantly positive correlations between lachnospiraceae and both cd14il-10 and cd14tgfb monocytesrsp  0.77 p  0.008 and rsp  0.73 p  0.01 respectivelyas well as between lachnospiraceae and cd4cd25foxp3 t lymphocytes rsp  0.68 p  0.02.lachnospiraceae were negatively correlatedwithboth cd14 il-10 and cd14tgfb monocytes rsp  -0.09 p  0.8 and rsp  -0.48 p  0.1 respectively and positively correlated with cd4cd25foxp3 t lymphocytes rsp  0.02 p  0.9 in wd none of these correlations was statistically significant inthis group of patients.modulation of disease activityclinical parameters were evaluated during the 12 months fol- low-up period as well as at the end of the protocol interesting differences emerged.

statistical significance is presented p  0.05.the bold values are statistically significant p values.t lymphocytes were reduced p  0.04 and p  0.001 respec- tively and 2 cd14pd-l1 monocytes were augmented p  0.009  .

in this pilot study we verified this hypothesis by analyz- ing immune indexes clinical parameters and gut microbiota in two groups of ms patients who at the time of recruitment were already following two distinct dietary regimes a western diet wd and a high-vegetablelow-protein diet hvlp diet.materials and methods individuals enrolled in the studypatients with a diagnosis of relapsing-remitting rr ms that are followed by the multiple sclerosis rehabilitation unit of the don carlo gnocchi foundation in milan italy were enrolled in this pilot trial on a voluntary basis between may and october of 2016. notably this unit offers dietary advices to patients thatare provided by a staff of professional nutritionists.

since butyrate upregulates treg cell populations these results suggest a mechanism by which gut microbiome alterations would predispose individuals to developing ms.as diet plays an essential role in shaping the gut microbiome  and a high-fiber intake has been linked to health benefits as a consequence of the effect of fiber on the gut microbiota possibly resulting in the modulation of the immune response we hypothesized that ms disease activity could be affected by dietary patterns.

in ms in particular changes in the composition of the microbiota were suggested to influence disease activity and in the eae murine model of ms tampering with microbiota can trigger or prevent disease development.

to better define whether in ms different dietary regimens can modify the microbiota if this results in a modulation of immune profiles and ultimately whether diet-associated changes in the composition of the microbiota influence disease activity we analyzed these parameters in two groups of ms patients who were following different diets.

finally although not reaching statistical significance possibly because of the small number of enrolled patients a clear prevalence of anti-inflammatorymonocytes was seen in the hvlp diet individuals in whom higher percentages of cd14tgfb monocytes were detected p  0.09 .correlation between lachnospiraceaeand anti-inflammatory immune celllachnospiraceae the family of bacteria whose abundance was observed to characterize the microbiota of ms diet patients were recently described to be associated with the preferential generation of an anti-inflammatory milieu.

we observed that the use of a hvlp diet in ms patients was linked to anabundance of lachnospiraceae bacteria in the gut microbiota.

results showed that in the hvlp diet group compared to the wd group 1 lachnospiraceae family was significantly more abundant 2 il-17-producing t cd4 lymphocytes p  0.04 and pd-1 expressing t cd4 lymphocytes p  0.0004 were significantly decreased and 3 pd-l1 expressing monocytes p  0.009 were significantly increased.

in the hvlp diet group positive correlations between lachnospiraceae and both cd14il-10 and cd14tgfbmonocytes rsp  0.707 p  0.05 and rsp  0.73 p  0.04 respectively as well as between lachnospiraceae and cd4cd25 foxp3 t lymphocytes rsp  0.68 p  0.02 were observed.

thus whereas the microbiota was demonstrated to be different when breastfed and formula-fed neonates were com- pared in adults dietary changes result in modifications of the gut microbiota.

diet gut microbiota and immune responses.nat immunol 2011 125-9. dosun m he c cong y liu z. regulatory immune cells in regulation of intestinal inflammatory response to microbiota.

j clin microbiol 2010 484279-82. dotremlett h fadrosh dw faruqi aa hart j roalstad s graves j et al.

