dss treatment significantly decreased the family of rikenellaceae control  18 dss  2 and increased the gram-negative bacteroides genus control  9 dss  58 on day 3 of treatment both belonging to the bacteriodetes phylum.

in turn dss treatment decreased the gram-positive firmicutes genus candidatus arthromitus also known as seg- mented filamentous bacteria sfb control  0.2 dss  0.004 and the firmicutes order of clostridiales control  39 dss  5 .

this led to slight differences in dss intake figure a in  ranging from 14.1 to 21.3 mg dss per gram body weight in the individual mice but it has previously been shown that dss load only acts in a straight dose-dependent manner in a criti- cal load above 30 mg per gram body weight .

were inversely correlated to colonic muc1 expression in control and dss treated mice on day 1 following dss treatment with a positive correlation in dss treated mice.

the bacteriodetes family has pre- viously been linked to dss treatment  and thus it is not unrealistic that dss increases the chance of lpstlr-receptor interaction leading to tolerogenic cell responses.in our study an acute effect of dss was reflected in fold changes of hp and il1a in colon on day 3 of treatment and this effect was more pronounced in mice also treated with ampicillin.

two groups received ampicillin in the drinking water from arrival 1 gl ampivet vet 250 mgml boehringer ingelheim germany and were then during week five either simultaneously treated with dss or with dss and a diet containing added lipopolysac- charide rodent diet d12070602 40.8 mgkg lps brogaarden denmark.

interestingly for the two groups treated with dss and ampicillin with or without lps there was a negative correlation between treg cells and relative counts of the lachnospiraceae family 25 days post-treatment .no clinical effect of low-dose dss in the absence of microbiota suppressionclinically the dss-only treated mice were statistically indistinguishable from the control mice with only small perturbations in food and water intake mildly resembling the pattern of the ampicillin-treated groups immediately following treatment cessation figure d in .

mice treated with dss alone did not exhibit any clinical signs and were similar to control mice in weight and food and water intake.some mice were simultaneously treated with ampicillin and others were in addition to dss treated with lps in the diet.

in turn muc1 in colon was only significantly upregulated in dss mice simultaneously treated with ampicillin on day 1 post-treatment whereas dss treatment alone or supplementation with lps did not produce a muc1 upregulation.

our study further showed that dss treatment pro- motes gram-negative phyla especially bacteriodetes which correlated with treg cells in the mln and mrna transcripts of the barrier-related retnlb relmb on day 3 of dss treatment.

p-values of similarity anosim between treatment groups control vs dss day 3 r  0.987 p  0.010 a and r  0.850 p  0.011 b. control vs dss day 1 pt.

two groups received ampicillin 1gl in the drinking water from arrival and were then co-treated during week five with either dss or with dss and diet containing added lipo- polysaccharide lps 40.8 mgkg lps.

figure a. average dss load mgg bw calcu- lated from cage level water intake per mouse in cage in the different treatment groups during treatment in week 5 day 32-39. ampicillin in the water increased the water intake and thereby dss load in groups co-treated with ampicillin.

balbc mice were treated with a low dose of dextran sulfate sodium dss with or without ampicillin and lipopolysaccharide lps to clar- ify the importance of microbial antigens and interaction between microbial-associated pat- terns and toll-like receptors.

regulatory t cells were acutely increased in mesenteric lymph nodes mln and spleen during dss treatment regardless of simultaneous ampicillin treatment.

