after 72 h all evaluated antioxidant genes were upregulated by a. marginale infection whereas some of these genes were down-regulated byrickettsii.the results of the stimulus of bme26 cells with heat-killed microorganisms m. luteus e. cloacae andcerevisiae showed that the expression of most pro- oxidant genes was upregulated and the expression of many antioxidant genes was down-regulated.

the global analysis of gene expression of bme26 cells in re- sponse to r. rickettsii challenge showed that most antioxidant genes were downregulated along infection compared with a. marginale while all pro-oxidant genes were upregulated in at least one point post- infection fig.

abbreviation nd not detected by qpcrsilencing of genes involved with antioxidant defence affects infection of bme26 cells by a. marginale.quantification of h2o2 in bme26 cells infected with a. marginalesince genes involved with redox metabolism are modu- lated by a. marginale infection fig  the quantity of h2o2 was evaluated in bme26 infected at 1 6 24 and 72 h fig.

a previous study showed that antioxidant genes of r. rickettsii are upregulated in the midgut of its tick vector during the acquisition of the blood meal in addition antioxi- dants genes of r. rickettsii are also upregulated in endothelial cells exposed to an oxidative environment upregulation of antioxidant genes might pro- tect this bacterium against ros which may explain its significant growth rate in bme26 cells.the microbicidal role of ros produced by profes- sional phagocytes in innate immunity of vertebrates is well known in addition it has been established that duox is involved in remodelling the intestinal microflora and elimination of unwanted microbes for the maintenance of the gut-microbe homeostasis of the fruit fly drosophila melanogaster another study demonstrated the involvement of ros in mosquitoimmunity which is important for the control of both bacteria and plasmodium however only a few studies have evaluated the role of ros in microbial colonization in ticks.

this disease causes significant economic losses due to temporary infertility abortion increased mortality and high costs of treatment we have previously reported significant differences in the tran- scriptional expression profile of genes encoding compo- nents of tick immune signaling pathways toll imd jnk and jak-stat in non-infected bme26 cells derived from r. microplus embryos in comparison to cells har- boring either a. marginale or rickettsia rickettsii the causative agent of rocky mountain spotted fever most of the analyzed genes were downregulated by a. marginale infection suggesting that this pathogen might manipulate the tick immune system favouring bacterial survival and colonization.

differently from other microbial stimuli a. marginale infection upregulated the majority of antioxidant genes while most of the pro- oxidant genes were downregulated.

anaplasms marginale infection downregu- lated the expression of pro-oxidants genes and upregulated antioxidant genes.

a p-value lower than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.resultsredox balance genes are differentially expressed in bme26 cells upon microbial stimulifirst we evaluated a. marginale and r. rickettsii growth in bme26 cells and the cell viability along infection table the infection ratios with rickettsiae were based on the kinetics of growth previously standardized by our research group.

.anaplasma marginale infection is limited by the simultaneous silencing of rmcat rmgpx rmtrxr or by rmoxr1 in bme26 cellsas a. marginale triggered an antioxidant profile in bme26 cells the effect of the simultaneous silencing of three antioxidant genes in tick cells rmcat rmgpx and rmtrxr on infection was determined.

the upregulation of the vast majority of pro-oxi- dant genes and downregulation or non-modulation of most antioxidant genes was observed along the 72 h of stimula- tion.

on the other hand heat- killed microorganisms upregulated most of the pro- oxidant genes and downregulated pro-oxidant genes.

marginale exposure triggers the downregulation of pro-oxidant genes and the upregulation of antioxidant genes suggesting that this pathogen might manipulate the oxidative response of bme26 cells to favour bacterial sur- vival towards a more reduced intracellular environment.

their expression levels were analyzed individually cq values and in combination geometric mean of cq values for our experimental conditions the best reference for qpcr normalization in bme26 cells was the geometric mean of the cq values of mdh gdh cypor and 40srps3a regarding both cq variation and primer efficiency.rnai gene-silencing assayto verify the importance of an antioxidant response of bme26 cells on a. marginale infection the encod- ing genes of catalase genbank cv451339 gpx genbank cv440147 trxr genbank cv451339 and oxr1 genbank mf503617 were silenced using rna-mediated interference rnai.

dur- ing a. marginale infection most of the pro-oxidant genes were downregulated except for rmnos which was upregulated at 6 and 72 h post-infection.

in fact the expression of antioxidant genes was upregulated as early as six h post-infection with a. marginale and their expression increased at 72 h. however future studies such as the measure of the activity of antioxidant enzymes should be performed to corroborate this hypothesis.to date few studies have described the involvement of antioxidant defence in the response of ticks to pathogen infection.

