A wide diversity of cells and tissues including cardiac tissue gastric parietal cells brain cells smooth muscle cells T and B lympho- cytes and dendritic cells express H2R which can exhibit constitutive or spontaneous activity .

The different characteristics associated with each of the HRs are summarised in .Histamine 1 receptorA broad range of cell types including T and B lympho- cytes monocytes dendritic cells endothelial cells airway and vascular smooth muscle cells hepatocytes neurons and chondrocytes express H1R .

Furthermore these animals display increased insulin and leptin levels associated with late-onset obesity partially mediated by an abnormally increased appetite .Histamine 4 receptorThe most recently described histamine receptor H4R shares some molecular pharmacological and signal trans- duction features with H3R but the expression pattern is different to H3R as it is found on keratinocytes Langer- hans cells dendritic cells neutrophils mast cells baso- phils and lymphocytes .

Mast cells basophils gastric enterochromaf- fin-like cells and histaminergic neurons are the best- described cellular sources of histamine.

Epithelial cells and immune cells express histamine receptors.

Recently H2R was shown toregulate invariant natural killer T cell iNKT cell activity and loss of H2R signalling on iNKT cells resulted in exaggerated inflammatory responses within the lung  SCID mice was associated with more severe colitis and TH17 responses within the gut compared to mice that received wild-type T cells .

In addition to mammalian cells bacteria can also secrete histamine and the influence of microbiota-derived histamine on host immunological processes is only beginning to be described.

Importantly SCFA promote dendritic cell regulatory activity resulting in the induction of regulatory lymphocytes and IL-10-secreting T cells.

Drugs targeting H3R and H4R are currently being evaluated.Immune regulation by histamineInnate and adaptive immune cells throughout the body can produce histamine by decarboxylation of the amino acid L-histidine by the enzyme histidine decarboxylase HDC .

Other cells suchHistamine-secreting bacteria Barcik et al.

