mcs are located at hostenvironment interfaces like skin airways and gastro- intestinal gi and urogenital tracts populate connective tissues in association with blood and lymphatic vessels and nerves and are absent in avascular tissues such as mineralized bone cartilage and cornea .it is believed that the role of mcs in physiologic and patholog- ical processes extends far beyond the allergy processes they are involved in wound healing in chronic inflammation tumor growth and angiogenesis and may be considered a component of the immune system .mcs release a broad array of preformed mediators and signaling molecules in the surrounding microenvironment affecting the functional profile of different resident tissue cells including fibrob- lasts smooth muscle cells endothelial cells epithelial cells and corresponding author.e-mail address f. girolamo.nerve fibers.

joanette y. prince m. rossor m. saxena s. snyder h.m. sperling r. varghese m. wang h. wortmann m. dua t. 2016. research priorities to reduce the global burden of dementia by 2025. lancet neurol.

named series bbi and the microbiomeimmunoregulatory effect of mast cells influenced by microbes in neurodegenerative diseasesfrancesco girolamo  cristiana coppola  domenico ribatti a department of basic medical sciences neurosciences and sense organs university of bari italyb national cancer institute ''giovanni paolo ii bari italya r t i c l e i n f oarticle historyreceived 20 february 2017received in revised form 17 may 2017 accepted 30 june 2017available online 1 july 2017keywordsalzheimer's disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis blood-brain barrierepilepsy mast cell microbiotamultiple sclerosis neurodegeneration neuroinflammation parkinson's diseasea b s t r a c t when related to central nervous system cns health and disease brain mast cells mcs can be a source of either beneficial or deleterious signals acting on neural cells.

we review this new information contributing to a greater understanding of mc-microbiota-neural cells interactions modulating the brain behavior and neurodegenerative processes.c 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.introductionmast cells mcs originate from progenitor cells in the bone marrow which move through the circulation and become mature mcs after homing to different organs under the influence of the local microenvironment .

like dendritic cells dc and macrophages mast cells are atypical antigen presenting cells apcs able to internalize gut bacteria to process their antigens and together with dc to elicit t lymphocyte maturation.

chronic functional bowel syndrome is characterized by dysbiosis an alteration of fecal microbial composition in the form of reduced species diversity and bacterial overgrowth of harmful pathobionts reduced intestinal motility gut barrier dys- function all epidemiologically linked to neuroinflammation cogni- tive impairment and dementia .mcs and commensalssome bacterial strains have a modulatory effect on immune sys- tem cells of the gut increasing competence of innate immunity activating dendritic cells and stimulating t-reg lymphocytes nk cells and mcs .

the activation of mog-specific t cells in the gut associated lymphoid tissue galt is necessary for the development of eae these pathogenic t cells select and promote the expansion of the autoimmune b cells producing anti-mog anti- bodies only in the presence of the autoantigen mog  .

magpantay l. tse s. mahanian m. weitzman r. tong j. nguyen c. cho t. koo p. sayre j. martinez-maza o. rosenthal m.j. wiedau-pazos m. 2010. il-17a is increased in the serum and in spinal cord cd8 and mast cells of als patients.

tuncel n. tuncel m. oncu e.m. sahinturk v. celik m. 2010. vasoactive intestinal peptide vip treatment of parkinsonian rats increases thalamic gamma-aminobutyric acid gaba levels and alters the release of nerve growth factor ngf by mast cells.

.pietrzak a. wierzbicki m. wiktorska m. brzezin' ska-blaszczyk e. 2011. surface tlr2 and tlr4 expression on mature rat mast cells can be affected by some bacterial components and proinflammatory cytokines.

bertalan m. borruel n. casellas f. fernandez l. gautier l. hansen t. hattori m. hayashi t. kleerebezem m.kurokawa k. leclerc m. levenez f. manichanh c. nielsen h.b.

gallo a. conte m. rosato c. ciniglio appiani m. de vincentiis m. 2016. parkinson's disease autoimmunity and neuroinflammation.

.dubreuil p. letard s. ciufolini m. gros l. humbert m. casteran n. borge l. hajem b. lermet a. sippl w. voisset e. arock m. auclair c. leventhal p.s.

.marin b. couratier p. arcuti s. copetti m. fontana a. nicol m. raymondeau m. logroscino g. preux p.m. 2016. stratification of als patients' survival a population-based study.

cohen m. bahar halpern k. baruch k. deczkowska a. lorenzo-vivas e. itzkovitz s. elinav e. sieweke m. h. schwartz m. amit i.

