In the conventional adenoma category in HIS versus control the MUC1 positivity rate was lower whereas both high  MUC2 positivity and high  MUC5AC positivity were less frequent.

In the case of whole MUC5AC positivity a significant difference was observed between the HIS and con- trol groups 100 versus 86.1 P b .05 although degrees of positivity did not differ between HIS and control.In the C-adenoma category there were no differences in the positive rates for MUCs 2 4 5AC or 6 between the HIS and control groups  and degrees of positivity between HIS and control were also similar for MUCs 4 and 6.

In the case of degree of positivity for MUC2 however speci- mens exhibiting high  positivity were more frequent than those classed as low  in the HIS group although the reverse was true in control and the rates for degrees of positivity were significantly different between HIS and control in whole low high  HIS versus control was 09 versus 18 P b .001 and left-side large intestine 09 versus 40 P b .005.In our analysis of the association between MUCs expres- sions and immunohistochemical findings for anti-TP antibody MUCs 2 4 5AC and 6 did not show any such association .

In the hyperplasiaserrated polyp category in HIS ver- sus control the MUC5AC positivity rate was lower whereas high  MUC4 positivity was more frequent.

For MUC2 however specimens exhibiting a high  degree of positivity were observed only in the HIS group and the rates for degree of positivity were significantly different be- tween HIS and non-HIS for the whole large intestine low high  HIS versus control was 204 versus 280 P b .05.

As regard MUC5AC expression in the HIS group specimens exhibiting high  positivity were observed in 70.6 of left-side large intestine but in 0 of the right P b .005.In the HPSP category there were no differences in the pos- itive rates for MUCs 1 2 4 or 6 between the HIS and control groups  and the degrees of positivity were also sim- ilar between HIS and control for MUCs 1 2 and 6.

In the C- adenomas category MUC1 positivity was much lower in HIS than in control although MUC1 positivity may be related to the malignant potential of lesions .

In the specimens without polyps or adenocarcinoma category high  MUC2 positivity was more frequent in HIS than in control.

In the adenocarcinoma category high  MUC2 positivity was more frequent in HIS than in control.

Among the above mucins only MUC1 positivity was significantly associated with an absence of the so-called fringe formation an ab- sence of spiral organisms within mucus and an absence of strong immunopositive materials within the ep- ithelial layer and within the subepithelial layer.

