dna is capable of activating type i ifn for both s. aureus and s. pneumoniae tlr9 mediates ifn re- sponses associated with s. aureus and sting mediates ifn responses to s. pneumoniae   .

colonization studies with s. aureus in influenza virus-infected mice showed that influenza increases the ability of s. aureus to persist in the nasopharynx and this was diminished in the absence of type iii ifn signaling figure .

both type i and iii ifn signaling were similarly found to inhibit clearance of s. aureus from the nasopharynx in the context of superinfection .effects of type iii ifn on the nasal microbiomeinfluenza is able to alter the mouse nasal microbiome via a type iii ifn-stat1-dependent mechanism.

ifn signaling affects both susceptibility to subsequent streptococcus pneumoniae and staphylococcus aureus infection as well as the intensity of the immune responses associated with pulmonary damage.

studies have shown that influ- enza increases the susceptibility to s. aureus or s. pneumoniae infection and that type i and iii ifns play a major role in this observation -.type i and iii ifn signaling influence the nasal microbiome and colonization densityupper airway tract colonization with gram-positive organisms is a major risk factor for subsequent aspiration and pneumonia.

antecedent influenza virus infection has been shown to increase colonization and aspiration of s. aureus and s. pneumoniae into the airway from the nasopharynx     and has been linked to multiple consequences of the ifn cascade.

these studies suggested that ifn-dependent expres- sion of antimicrobial peptides in the nasopharyx was associated with the selective changes in the nasopharyngeal flora andfigure 1. influence of type i and iii interferon ifn signaling on the pathogenesis of staphylococcus aureus and streptococcus pneumoniae infection after influenza.

staphylococcus aureus activates type i ifn signaling in mice and humans through the xr repeated sequences of protein a. j clin invest 2009 1191931-9.iverson ar boyd kl mcauley jl plano lr hart me mccullers ja.

type i ifns exerted their effect by decreasing production of the major macrophage chemokine ccl2 an observation that was demonstrated directly in vitro with purified ifn-b preventing production of ccl2 by macro- phages in response to infection .conclusionssecondary infections resulting from s. aureus and s. pneumo- niae are a major complication of influenza virus infection.

a major component of effective viral clearance especially in re- sponse to influenza is the participation of type i and iii ifns which are increasingly appreciated for their diverse roles in host defenses against bacterial as well as viral infections -.type i and iii ifn signaling and their roles in infection the complexity and redundancies of the ifn family suggestcorrespondence d. parker department of pediatrics columbia university 650 w 168th st black bldg 427 new york ny 10032 .tthhee jjoouurrnnaall ooff iinnffeeccttiioouussddiisseeaasseessrr 2017215s1s58-63c the author 20167. published by oxford university press for the infectious diseases society of america.

different strains of s. aureus use discrete mechanisms of ifn signaling.

hepatology 2014 591262-72.parker d prince a. staphylococcus aureus induces type i ifn signaling in den- dritic cells via tlr9.

influenza staphylococcus aureus streptococcus pneumoniae type i interferon type iii interferon superinfection pneumonia.it has been shown throughout history that bacterial infection contributes significantly to overall mortality associated with major influenza epidemics.

aureus alone .influenza increases the susceptibility to subsequent bacterial infection by many mechanisms.

mice that lack il-27 signaling were protected from the pathology associated with both s. aureus and s. pneumoniae infection after influenza  .

