specifically during the coupled feeding run each sbr cycle was characterized by an initial feed phase 10 min 0.25 l a reaction phase 348 min and a withdrawal phase of the mixed liquor 2 min 0.25 l. in the uncoupled feeding runs the structure of each cycle consisted of an initial phase of carbon feeding 10 min 0.21 l a first reaction phase during which the external carbon source was consumed 140 min a withdrawal phase of the mixed liquor 2 min 0.25 l a nitrogen feeding phase 5 min 0.04 l and a second reaction phase 203 min which differentiated from the first reaction phase for the absence of the external organic substrate.

indeed in the coupled feeding condition nitrogen was available for most of the sbr cycle and it was mainly consumed during the feast phase suggesting the simultaneous occurrence of microbial growth and pha storage while the remainder fraction was used during the famine phase for the growth of pha-storing microorganisms along with polymer consumption b. in the uncoupled feeding strategy in order to sustain microbial growth only during the famine phase nitrogen was added after the end of the feast phase at minute 152 from the beginning of the cycle and upon addition it was fairly quickly consumed during the famine phase in concomitance to pha consumption b. this behaviour clearly suggests that both nitrogen uptake and microbial growth occurred mostly during the famine phase using the stored polymer as intracellular carbon source providing a further indication of the strong selective pressure established in the sbr towards the enrichment of pha- storing microorganisms.

profile of dissolved oxygen do and volatile fatty acids vfa concentrations a pha and ammonium concentrations b.this residual nitrogen consumed during the first part of the feast phase probably resulted in a little microbial growth also during the feast phase hence diverting a little fraction of available vfa away from pha storage.

3. length of the feast phase a and the maximum pha concentration b as a function of the applied nitrogen feeding strategy.b shows the pha concentration measured in correspon- dence to the end of the feast phase.

the main aim of a controlled nitrogen dosage in different moments of the sbr cycle is to favour pha storage during the feast phase under nitrogen lacking conditions and microbial growth in the famine phase in the presence of nitrogen.

profile of dissolved oxygen do and volatile fatty acids vfa concentrations a pha and ammonium concentrations b.respectively clearly suggesting its storage during the feast phase and its consumption throughout the course of the famine phase as represented in figs.

notably in spite of a very similar length of the feast phase the pha production reached a value of 1300 64 mgcod l-1 when nitrogen was separately supplied at the beginning of the famine phase corresponding to a more than doubled value with respect to that 611 44 mgcod l-1 obtained with the coupled feeding strategy.

more specifically in the coupled feeding run nitrogen was nearly completely consumed only by the end of the sbr cycle whereas in the uncoupled feeding run in which it was fed after the beginning of the famine phase resulting in a shorter period for its consumption before the end of the cycle a nitrogen limitation established only in the feast phase leading to the higher pha production.

this was likely a consequence of a rather short famine phase which was not long enough to allow for the establishment of an effective ff regime and differently from the other two runs at the moment of nitrogen supply at minutes 152 and therefore during the feast phase the external substrate was still present in the medium leading microorganisms to barely produce any pha and grow as much as the conditions let them.

however in the sbr run at the highest cn ratio 22.3 cmol nmol-1 after eight days of operation due to the high duration of the feast phase the withdrawal phase was moved to the end of cycle at minute 358 in order to prevent removal of unconsumed acids along with the reactor mixed liquor.

the difference between pha concentration measured at the moment of substrate depletion and that measured incorrespondence to the beginning of the cycle corresponded to the amount of polymer stored during the feast phase dpha.

by taking into account the concentration of both the biomass and the stored polymer it was possible to determine the specific storage rate rpha mcodpha gcodxa-1 h-1 referred to the feast phase as well as the percentage of intracellular polymer contained in the biomass pha wt wt-1 according tophapha 14 vsswhere t represents the length of the feast phase.results and discussionsbr performance with coupled or uncoupled carbon and nitrogen feedingtwo runs of the sequencing batch reactor sbr were performed with very similar operating conditions except for the moment corresponding to the nitrogen supply.

as for the pha concentration it reached its peak value at the end of the feast phase about 0.46 gcod l-1 and 1.46 gcod l-1 for the coupled and uncoupled feeding respectively whereas the lowest concen- tration was observed at the end of cycle about 0.10 gcod l-1 and0.50 gcod l-1 for the coupled and uncoupled feedingrphadpha14 xa - tfig 1. sbr performance with simultaneous coupled carbon and nitrogen feeding strategy during a typical cycle.

in the last case the fraction of the feast phase with respect to the overall cycle length exceeded the threshold value 25 reported in the literature to allow the selection of microorganisms with good pha storage ability .fig.

on the other hand pha-storing microorganisms converted vfa into intracellular pha during the feast phase and managed to thrive during the remainder of the sbr cycle by using this product as carbon and energy source.

