the sharp difference in the diversity metrics between sediment and water with the exception of headwater-derived sediment shows that in contrast to the sediment the water column is not a stable environment.due to its movement from the source to the sink of theriver the water column at any given point is constantly chang- ing its composition of bacterial species.

the dominant bacterial phyla in both sediment and water were the proteobacteria followed by bacteroidetes and actinobacteria in the water column and by chloroflexi and acidobacteria in the sediment.

the sediment samples were retrieved at a depth between 4 and 8 cm avoiding the upper layer of the sediment that is in contact with the water column.

a total of 28 different officially described bacterial phyla and four candi- date divisions were detected in the sequence set in both the sediment and water samples.proteobacteria are commonly found in surveys of river and freshwater microbial communities and were the most dominant phylum in both sediment and water samples in the present study fig.

4. while they covered between 52 and 82 of the total number of reads in the water communities the sediment samples generally exhibited lower abundance values for this group 35-40 and were more evenly popu- lated by a higher number of different phyla.while less abundant in the river sediment members of the class betaproteobacteria clearly dominated the water-derived communities 35-72 of the sequences and were by far the most dominant phylogenetic group followed by the alpha- and gamma- classes.

3. semilogarithmic preston plots of the otu abundance distribution of a the sediment and b the water samples.members of six of the gp subgroups were encountered in the 40 most abundant genera of the sediment samples suggesting their functional significance in this type of environment.as indicators of bacterial phototrophic activity the most abundant microorganisms were rhodobacter alphaproteo-bacteria and chlorophyta green algae.

the diverse group of cyanobacteria and chloroplasts contributed from 0.07 to 2 of the total reads in water and sediment samples.a subset of 29 bacterial otus was present in all the water and sediment samples data not shown.

differences in community composi- tion between distinct sampling sites were observed as were possible functions of subgroups of the resident microbiota.the sediment samples for example contained many otus that were not present in the water column while the latter shared most of its bacterial species with the sediment.

using 454-pyrosequencing of the 16s gene the present study analyzed the microbial diversity of the planktonic and sediment populations in a tropical river in northeastern brazil that is exposed to severe pollution.

six water and six sediment samples were analysed.

previous at- tempts to assess the community structure and composition of river ecosystems were limited due to the selective bias intro- duced by the available methodology culture based tech- niques or the limited coverage offered by molecular tech- niques such as dgge denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis or gene library construction followed by sanger sequencing 4131730455054. the recent devel- opment of economically accessible high-throughput sequenc- ing techniques has provided a far more complete inventory of the microbial communities present in lotic ecosystems with sampling depths orders of magnitudes higher than those used in previous studies.by using these new techniques an emerging set of studies of geographically distinct river ecosystems has expanded our knowledge of lotic 792242 and sediment 23 communi- ties as well as their physiological functions.

the high degree of pollution in the jaboatao river has direct im- plications on the public health given the alarmingly high numbers of hospitalizations caused by waterborne pathogens in the area 19. along the river's course two paper mills dis- charge their effluents containing a large number of highly toxic compounds many of which do not occur naturally 44. the aim of the present study was to increase knowledge about lotic biodiversity by studying the microbiota of both the sediment and the water column of a tropical river in a progres- sively urbanized region in brazil.

the orp was also measured in the sediment immedi- ately prior to sampling.

therefore the probe was inserted approximately 6 cm into the sediment.

300 ml of each water sample or 0.5 g of each well-mixed sediment sample were subjected to the extraction method with the powersoil dna extraction kit mo bio carlsbad ca usa.

