see discussions stats and author profiles for this publication at impact of low and high doses of marbofloxacin on the selection of resistant enterobacteriaceae in the commensal gut flora of ....article in foodborne pathogens and disease  january 2017doi 10.1089fpd.2016.2176citations0reads878 authors including 17 publications 30 citations 10 publications 14 citations 392 publications 7303 citations 123 publications 2504 citations some of the authors of this publication are also working on these related projectsassessment of the advantage of crossbreeding between dairy breeds phd thesis 2 years postdoc position in statistics for the pigletdetect project foodborne pathogens and diseasevolume 14 number 3 2017a mary ann liebert inc. doi 10.1089fpd.2016.2176original articleimpact of low and high doses of marbofloxacin on the selection of resistant enterobacteriaceae in the commensal gut flora of young cattle discussion of data from 2 study populationsguillaume lhermie1-3 ve'ronique dupouy3 farid el garch1 nadine ravinet2 pierre-louis toutain3 alain bousquet-me'lou3 henri seegers2 and se'bastien assie'2abstractin the context of requested decrease of antimicrobial use in veterinary medicine our objective was to assess the impact of two doses of marbofloxacin administered on young bulls ybs and veal calves vcs treated for bovine respiratory disease on the total population of enterobacteriaceae in gut flora and on the emergence of resistant enterobacteriaceae.

a fivefold decrease of marbofloxacin regimen did not affect the selection of resistances among commensal bacteria.keywords fluoroquinolone cattle antimicrobial resistance enterobacteriaceae decreased doseintroductionelection of resistant pathogenic and commensal bacteria secondary to veterinary antimicrobial use and transfer via the food chain or the environment of resistance genes between animals exposed to antibiotics and humans represent a potential hazard for human health singer et al.

in the next few hours calves from the group low n  16 were administered a single intramuscular injection of 2 mgkg marbofloxacin and calves from the group high n  12 were administered a single intramuscular injection of 10 mgkg marbofloxacin.

2011.even if enterobacteriaceae represent a low percentage of the total digestive flora in ruminants they constitute a po- tential reservoir of resistance genes potentially transferred from animals to humans aarestrup and wegener 1999bywater 2004 wooldridge 2012. enterobacteriaceae rep- resent a frequent carcass contaminant at slaughter ramos et al.

as an example the annual monitoring of resistance to antimicrobials in veteri- nary medicine conducted in france by the national food safety agency highlights that for third-generation cephalo- sporins the resistance level of escherichia coli from diges- tive tract is fivefold higher in young compared with adult cattle anses 2014.the aim of our study was to assess the impact of two doses of marbofloxacin administered on young bulls ybs and veal calves vcs on the total population of enterobacteriaceae in gut flora and on the emergence of resistant enterobac- teriaceae.materials and methodsexperiment 1 on ybsanimals and antimicrobial treatments.

for analysis 100 ll of 12 dilution of the aliquot was spread in triplicate on mac- conkey agar by using a spiral plater interscience allowing a dilution range from 100 to 2.10-2. to select strains with decreased susceptibility ds-enterobacteriaceae to marbo- floxacin with an minimum inhibitory concentration mic comprising between 0.12 and 4 lgml or resistant r- enterobacteriaceae with an mic 4 lgml fecal sam- ples were also plated on macconkey agar containing 0.12 or 4 lgml of marbofloxacin respectively based on the marbo- floxacin mic distribution already reported meunier et al.

the calves recruited were also enrolled in a study assessing the impact of marbofloxacin dosage in an experi- mental lung infection model lhermie et al.

2014. indeed previous studies reported the coselection of plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance genes with b- lactams use leading to a decrease in susceptibility of e. coli but not clinical resistance to fluoroquinolones nordmann and poirel 2005 vien et al.

the number of ciprofloxacin-resistant iso- lates increased significantly from d0 to d5 in the two treated groups over time  p  0.05. in the control group a significant increase of two log10 of the average number of ciprofloxacin- resistant isolates was also observed between d2 and d5  p  0.05. at d5 only 3 out of 5 calves were collected in the control group one calf died between d3 and d5 and one calf could not be sampled.discussionwe aimed at assessing the impact of a decreased marbo- floxacin regimen on selection of fluoroquinolone-resistant enterobacteriaceae in young cattle.

at d3 a transient significant decrease in total enterobacteriaceae count was observed between both treatment and control group  p  0.05. this decrease was higher in group high -2 log10 than in group low -1 log10.

each yb was sampled at least one time before the treatment of the first yb included in the pen.d day ybs young bulls.table 2. descriptive table of the number of calves sampled from day -4 -3 to day 5 according to their treatment group d0 being the day of treatmentnumbers are not constant over time in the different groups because some animals were treated at various times and could not be collected according to the apparition of signs of bovine respiratory disease and one died in the control group.group 1 out of 14 ybs in the low group yield ds-en- terobacteriaceae.after treatment ds-enterobacteriaceae were isolated in at least 2 successive samples in 2 out of 14 yb of each treated group.

total count of ciprofloxacin- resistant enterobacteriaceae slightly increased by one log10 between d0 and d5 in both treatment groups.one study reported that a threefold increase in fluoro- quinolone dose did not lead to measurable differences in the probability of selection of resistant bacteria in the human gut flora fantin et al.

similar results were observed on enterobacteriaceae in an experimental model using rats treated with different doses of cefquinome vasseur et al.

marbofloxacin dosage regimen was recently reevaluated for treatment of gram-negative infections by using updated pharmacokinetic- pharmacodynamic requirements leading to a current labeled dose of 10 mgkg given in a single injection in addition to the first approval at the recommended dose of 2 mgkg during 31global drug development ve'toquinol sa lure france.2bioepar oniris inra nantes france.3toxalim universite' de toulouse inpt envt inp-purpan ups toulouse france.1to 5 d valle et al.

a similar decrease after a single administration of 10 mgkg of marbofloxacin was reported in sheep el garch et al.

