compared with our former study the tmao level in chinese atherosclerosis patients was similar to the control group but was deceased in strokepatients 2.92 mmoll 2.68 mmoll and 1.91 mmoll respectively illustrating that in our study the tmao level of the healthy controls was relatively normal and comparable whereas the tmao level was significantlyfigure 4. transplantation of the ckd patient microbiota induces an increased tmao level and dysbiosis of the gut microbiota in antibiotic-treated mice.

interestingly in the framingham heart study tmao was a predicative marker of ckd at 8 years of follow-up that was not related to the baseline gfr suggesting that tmao may be a surrogate marker for the gfr and have nephrotoxic properties.in accordance with the alteration in tmao severe dysbiosis of the gut microbial community was observed in the ckd patients.

reported that the tmao levels were signifi- cantly elevated in ckd patients indicating that tmao also played a role as a risk factor in these patients.

thus we could assume that the elevated tmao levels are caused by the dysbiosis of gut microbiota and impaired renal functions in chinese ckd patients.recently we reported that the tmao level in chinese atherosclerosis patients was similar to the levelobserved in the control group but was deceased in stroke patients which was different from data reported from studies in the usa .

in the present study we evaluated the gut microbial com- munity and the tmao levels in chinese ckd patients and explored the underlying explanations through the animal experiment.resultsckd patients showed worse clinical manifestations and significantly elevated tmao concen- trations compared to the healthy participants.

to investigate the clinical conditions and plasma tmao concentrations of the ckd patients we collected basic clinical indices and measured tmao concen- trations for analysis.

the fasting blood tmao concentration was 30.33 - 27.35 mmoll in the ckd patients and only 2.08 - 1.89 mmoll in the healthy controls mann-whitney u test p  0.001. the tmao concentrations between the high gfr group and the low gfr group were significantly different 17.58 - 18.45 mmoll and 40.23 - 38.10 mmoll respectively fig.

the low gfr group showed significantly higher tmao concentra- tions than the high gfr group which showed significantly higher tmao concentrations than the control group.obvious dysbiosis of the gut microbiota in ckd patients including reduced bacterial a-diver- sity and biased community constitutions.

furthermore the low gfr group showed increased adlercreutzia which was positively correlated to the tmao level spearman analysis p 0.002 r  0.528 but the abundance of adlercreutzia was relatively low 0.00005. these results indicated that the difference of microbial composi- tion between the low gfr group and the high gfr group was not significant.transplantation of the ckd patient microbiota induced an increased tmao level and dysbiosis of the gut microbiota in antibiotic-treated mice.

in con- clusion the fmt from ckd patients led to increased tmao levels and the dysbiosis of gut microbiota in mice receiving this.discussionckd has become an important public health problem and our study provides new information about the tmao levels and gut microbiome in chinese ckd patients.

reported that the tmao levels in ckd 3-4 and ckd 5 patients and controls in sweden were73.5 mml 14.6 mml and 5.8 mml respectively and that the renal functions were a major determinant of the tmao level.

a comparison of the data from two studies showed that the tmao levels of the healthy group werefigure 1. ckd patients showed significantly elevated plasma tmao concentrations.

this result provided direct evidence for the first time that the increased tmao levels in ckd patients were partially promoted by gut microbiome dysbiosis additionally the results indicated an essential role for the gut microbiota in tmao generation and metabolism in ckd patients as previously reported.

studies employing poorly orally absorbed antibiotics coupled with the dietary intake of isotope-labelled phosphatidylcholine directly demonstrated an obligatory role for gut microbes in tmao generation in humans.in addition to the causative role in tmao production the perturbed gut microbiota in ckd patients pro- vided more information on the probable effect on host physiology.

besides the low gfr group showed increased adlercreutzia which was positively correlated to the tmao level spearman analysis p 0.002 r  0.528 but the abundance of adlercreutzia was relatively low 0.00005. these results indicated that the difference of microbial composi- tion between the low gfr group and the high gfr group may be involved in the tmao separation between the two groups.

