the phylogenetic trees of control and pre-treated samples depicting the shifts in microbial communities at species level was shown in a.betaproteobacterial members that accounted for 1.3 and 2.6 of control and pretreated samples comprised 32 and 62 reads respectively  g. out of 32 sequences of control sample otu9 comprise 30 reads which showed 100 sequence similarity with dechlorosoma suillum ps nr 074103.1. in pretreated sample 41 reads representing otu6 showed 95 sequence similarity with propionivibrio dicarboxylicus cremal1t nr 026477.1 16 sequences representing otu10 belonged to comamonas terrigena lmg 1253t aj430342.1 and remaining sequences showed 16s rrna gene sequence similarities ranging from 97 to 100 with genera pando- raea comamonas ideonella and azospira.sequences of control 147 5.8 and pretreated 173 7.3 samples has also showed similarity to the class gammaproteobacteria h. 126 sequences of otu5 in control sample and 164 sequences of otu4 in pretreated sample showed 100 sequence similarity with pseudomonas sp.

keeping this in view combined pretreatment with acid-shock and iodopropane was used which would suppress the methanogenic metabolic process and thus enhance h2 production  .hydrogen productionbiohydrogen production profiles were plotted for both pretreated and control operations with function of cycle operation a. initially no difference in h2 production was observed in both bioreactors however after 15th cycle of operation onwards increment in h2 production was seen in the pretreated system.

similarly in pretreated sample all the other sequences belonged to genera paludibacter niabella bac- teroidetes bacterium oral taxon clone anaerobic bacterium anduncultured bacterium clones .about 30.2 of control sample reads accounting for 761 reads and 46 of reads in pretreated sample accounting for 1083 sequences belonged to alphaproteobactera  f. in control sample 95.3 of alphaproteobacterial sequences belonging to otu1 725 reads shared 100 sequence similarity with novosphingobium capsulatum rig1 gq891714.1.

sequences of remaining four otus of pretreated were phylogenetically related to genera enterobacter citrobacter leclercia and tolumonas b.three otus comprising 40 sequences 1.6 in control sample while two otus comprising 16 sequences 0.7 in pretreated sample belonged to deltaproteobacteria.

pt-otu represents otu from pre-treated sample with number of sequences in the parenthesis.essex 6. nine otus comprising 1246 sequences 49.4 in control sample and three otus comprising 755 sequences 32 in pretreated sample belonged to class epsilonproteobacteria of phylum proteobacteria.

impact of selectively enriched microbial communities on long-term fermentative biohydrogen productionkanniah goud kotakonda arunasri dileep kumar yeruva k. vamshi krishna shikha dahiyavenkata mohan bioengineering and environmental sciences lab eeff department csir-indian institute of chemical technology hyderabad 500007 indiah i g h l i g h t s vfa and h2 production enhanced with enriched inoculum compared to control.selective enrichment enhanced acetogenic bacteria.alphaproteobacteria  bacteroidetesimplicated for hydrolysis process.clostridia rhodocyclales burkholderiales entrerobacteria were enriched.selective enrichment facilitated in increasing 3 times more h2 production.g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c ta r t i c l e i n f o article historyreceived 12 january 2017received in revised form 23 march 2017 accepted 24 march 2017available online 27 march 2017keywords pyrosequence analysis microbial dynamics acid-shockbiohydrogen production volatile fatty acids vfaa b s t r a c t the effect of selectively enriched inoculum for biohydrogen production and shifts in microbial commu- nities was observed using anaerobic sequencing batch reactor ansbr.

these results imply that ai pretreated inoculum application enhances vfa production partic- ularly in acetic acid composition which further leads to high h2 production in the reactor.in both untreated control and ai pretreated sample the maincontributors for h2 production through acetogenesis process belonged to genus clostridium of phylum firmicutes and genus pseudomonas of class gammaproteobacteria.

after alignment of the sequences clustering was done to get the operational taxo- nomic units otus using mothur   with sequence distances set at 0.03. based on the cluster analysis shannon diversity index   chao1 richness   abundance-based coverage using the abundance coverage estimator ace   and the rarefaction curves were derived with dis- tance set at 0.03. both the control and pre-treated sequence data sets were compared by using ribosomal data base project rdp online web tool  comparisoncomp.jsp to reveal the differences in the sequences at various taxa level .

differences in  number of otus were compared between control sample and pretreated sample a-h and it is apparent that otus belonging to firmicutes significantly increased in pretreated sample a. however comparing the  number of sequences of control and pre-treated sample revealed that reads belonging to alphaproteobacteria gammaproteobacteria bacteroidetes and fir- micutes increased in their number while sequences belonging to other taxa were decreased b. phylogenetic trees were made for the otus of control and pre-treated samples belonging to firmi- cutes  bacteroidetes  alphaproteobacteria a gammaproteobacteria b and epsilonproteobacteria c. rarefaction curve figure.

otu7 with 37 sequences and otu11 with 15 sequences of control showed 97 sequence similarity to desulfovibrio desulfuricans subsp.

out of 32 sequences of control sample otu9 comprised of 30 sequences which showed 100 sequence similarity with azospira suillum strain ps formally dechlorosoma suillum strain ps nr 074103.1 belonging to betaproteobacteria.

apart from this sequences belong- ing to kozakia baliensis acetobacteriaceae member which would involve in acetic acid fermentation was also enriched in pre- treated sample a. thus the enhanced acetic acid production in pre-treated sample may be due to the contribution of the enriched acetobacteriaceae members.

various pretreatment strategies employed and studied for h2 and methane production processes using differ- ent wastes was reported  .the present study deals with assessing the microbial dynamics and h2 production in reactors operating with the combined pretreated inoculum acid-shock and iodopropane ai compared to untreated control inoculum.

pre-treated mixed inoculum exhibited maximum h2 production rate which is almost three times higher compared to the control operation.substrate degradationuntreated inoculum showed relatively higher substrate degra- dation efficiency ncod 58 - 4 1.10 - 0.8 kg codrm3-day com- pared to combined ai pretreated inoculum ncod 55.4 1.8 kg codrm3-day b. however ai pre-treated inoculum showed9.83 molkg codr while control sample showed only 3.91 molkg codr specific hydrogen yield c.acid metabolites and redox conditionsh2 production during dark-fermentation is generally associated with metabolic conversion of organic substrates to acid metabolic intermediates in the form of short chain fatty acids or volatile fatty acids vfa .

vfa profile enumerates the changes occurring during the fermentation process d. com- paratively higher vfa production was observed with pretreated inoculum compared to control which correlated well with the h2 production pattern.

