.caporaso jg kuczynski j stombaugh j bittinger k bushman fd costello ek fierer n pena ag goodrich jk gordon ji huttley ga kelley st knights d koenig je ley re lozupone ca mcdonald d muegge bd pirrung m reeder j sevinsky jr turnbaugh pj walters wa widmann j yatsunenko t zaneveld j knight r. 2010. qiime allows analysis of high-throughput community sequencing data.

of these several proteins involved in butyrate metabolism were significantly altered as verified with the post hoc kruskal-nemenyi test  including butyrate kinase baseline versus hrs p  0.001 hrs versus lrs p  0.01 and enoyl coenzyme a enoyl-coa hydratase lrs versus baseline p  0.0001 lrs versus hrs p  0.003. a targeted quantification of butyrate in the samples revealed trends for increased butyrate accumulation in the hrs diet and to a lesser extent in the lrs diet although this was highly variable between individuals data not shown.

in general in the hrs diet we see a highly significant increase in fatty acyls hrs 20.3 lrs 1.9 baseline 1.9 and sterol lipids hrs 25.6 lrs 0.4 baseline 1.1 and simultaneously an increase of faecalibac- terium hrs 1.4 lrs and baseline 0.0 based on all significant features from the opls-da results and .the multiomics data are summarized here in one overview model  to illustrate the main effects of the resistant starch diet on the gut microbiome and functions that they carry out.

.qin j li y cai z li s zhu j zhang f liang s zhang w guan y shen d peng y zhang d jie z wu w qin y xue w li j han l lu d wu p dai y sun x li z tang a zhong s li x chen w xu r wang m feng q gong m yu j zhang y zhang m hansen t sanchez g raes j falony g okuda s almeida m lechatelier e renault p pons n batto jm zhang z chen h yang r zheng w li s yang h. 2012. a metagenome-wide association study of gut microbiota in type 2 diabetes.

similarities edges within and between species proteins and metabolites circles squares and triangles respectively across participants and time points including only nodes significantly higher red or lower blue in hrs than baseline two-sided t test p  0.05. b opls-da plot of all data features metabolites 5552 proteome 57397 otus 1107 for baseline blue negative x axis versus hrs red positive x axis p 8.3 x 10-6 cv-anova r2ycum 0.96 q2cum 0.88. c opls-da plot for hrs red negative x axis versus lrs green positive x axis p 0.026 cv-anova r2ycum 0.883 q2cum 0.534.high or low degrees of rs fig.

for the rarefied otu data the correlation coefficients were averaged and visualized using the same color code as applied to the proteome data and the treemap polygon sizes correspond to the average counts of otus for all samples to visualize their relative amounts in the entire data set.multiomics integrative analyses.

pairs of data sets were assembled by matching participants from each individual data set 16s proteomics and metabolomics to provide maximum overlapping data sets 16s plus proteomics proteomics plus metabolomics and metabolomics plus 16s.

in order to evaluate the metabolomics data set with respect to the impact of the different diets on the human gut microbiome all valid classification models of the opls-da were merged to examine the most discriminating features among the baseline hrs and lrs diets.in order to identify significant features of the metabolomics data set a lipidomics-msms approach was applied using an acquity ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography system waters gmbh eschborn germany coupled to a bruker maxis ultrahigh-resolution-time of flight mass spectrometer uhr-tof-ms bruker daltonik gmbh bremen germany as previously described in the work of witting et al.

the mass signals were assigned to molecular formulas using netcalc  network tolerance 0.2 ppm netcalc tolerance 0.2 ppm and searched against the kegg  kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes hmdb  human metabolome database and lipid maps  databases using homo sapiens as a reference organism using the mass- trix web server   with a maximum error of 1 ppm.for multivariate data analysis mva samples had been divided into 3 main groups baseline blue g1 hrs red g2 and lrs green g3 since orthogonal partial least-squares discriminant analysis opls-da revealed no significant changes between the lrs diets at day 28 and day 56 as well as between the hrs diets at day 28 and day 56. different opls-da classification models were designed to evaluate the effect of resistant starch on the gut microbiome which are listed in .

in order to study the three combined data sets two different opls-da models were built the baseline diet to the hrs diet and the hrs diet to the lrs diet.

red arrowsframes increased in hrs blue frames decreased in hrs black arrows not detected or not increased in hrs over baseline green arrowsframes increased in lrs.

this resulted in a total of 57397 proteins that were quantitatively identified human 1103 microbes 56294. spectrum counts sc of protein were normalized as described below  normalized sci j  1 k  1mnsckx scik  1where n is the number of proteins m is the number of ms runs and j k and i are index values for each specific ms run protein and spectral count respectively.the metaproteome data were functionally analyzed by using cluster of orthologous groups cog for microbial proteins and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes kegg pathway terms using cog software r 3.1.3 and python 2.7.6.metabolomics.

.gao z yin j zhang j ward re martin rj lefevre m cefalu wt ye j.

.jansson j willing b lucio m fekete a dicksved j halfvarson j tysk c schmitt-kopplin p. 2009. metabolomics reveals metabolic biomarkers of crohn's disease.

there was a high correlation between the 16s data and the proteome data with respect to operational taxonomic unit otu and protein abundance  with more proteins detected for the more abundant community members.

