The altered gut microbiota may be a sign of a modern diet-associated obesity among children in developing areas.Keywords gut microbiota 16S rRNA gene sequencing Firmicutes Bacteroidetes Prevotella high-fat diet obesity PhilippinesINTRODUCTIONGlobalization has affected people's eating habits leading many of them to consume high-fat and high-calorie foods  .

The fat energy intake ratio of the 40 Leyte children was fitted to the CAP coordinate by the 'ordisurf' function and regression splines are displayed.the Prevotella-type gut microbial community of native Africans .To deepened our insight about the association of gut microbes with dietary nutrients we analyzed total correlation among the abundance of fecal bacterial species and macronutrients consumption and created its association map .

The correlation between altered gut microbiota and high BMI suggests that high-fat diet- associated obesity is present among Filipino children on Leyte island.DISCUSSIONVariations in the gut bacterial community of Leyte children co- clustered with those of other Asian children.

We can see then that the Prevotella-depleted high FB gut microbiota corresponding to P-enterotype is the result of evolutionary adaptation of gut microbial community to high-fat and high-calorie modern diets.Although we found the correlation between obesity and enterotype in this study it is yet to be answered whether the altered gut microbiota is a cause of obesity or just a consequence of altered dietary habit.

The latter include traditional low-fat diets with a high content of plant polysaccharides or meat-free vegetarian diets   .The Asian Microbiome Project AMP aims to investigate the link between different traditional diets gut microbiota and Asians' health.

The different preponderance of microbiota types in the two cities on Leyte island suggests the existence of a regional factor affecting gut microbial composition.

The trade-off between Prevotella and Bacteroides is common among the human gut microbiota variation explaining two of the three enterotypes  .

The high FB gut microbial community consisting of these species might accelerate a modern-diet associated obesity.

The previous paper described that Prevotella-rich gut microbiota of Burkina Faso children produced a higher level of short chain fatty acids than Firmicutes-rich microbiota of Italian children suggesting efficient energy harvest from calorie-less indigestible dietary fibers  .

Since childhood obesity can lead to a variety of adverse health outcomes and associate with life style-related diseases in adulthood AMP will keep an eye on gut microbiota of Asian children especially in urbanizing regions.ETHICS STATEMENTThe ethics committee of the Faculty of Agriculture of Kyushu University The NUS Institutional Review Board Written informed consent was obtained from the parentsguardians of all participants.AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONSConceived and designed the experiments JN KS JT and Y-KL.

