however epidemiologic studies on the relationship between endotoxin exposure and respiratory health have reported conflicting associations with one recent analy- sis of three large european asthma birth cohorts finding a protective effect of endotoxin expo- sure in the spanish cohort no effect of endotoxin exposure in the german cohort and a harmful effect of endotoxin exposure in the dutch cohort despite similar approaches to envi- ronmental assessment and outcome definition .

this allowed us to identify the dif- ferential abundance of microbes with greater power.to determine the extent to which endotoxin can serve as a proxy for 16s rdna copy num- ber or the richness and evenness of microbial communities as determined by 16s rdna sequencing spearman correlation was calculated between these measures.in order to determine the proportion of a worker's microbiome that is attributable to his work environment we used sourcetracker  a bayesian community-wide microbial source tracking algorithm to estimate the proportion of the oral nasal and skin microbiome attrib- uted to the work microbiome of each participant before and after a standard 8-hour work shift in the dirty location of the cage wash area.

workers involved in the direct care of animals including washing dirty cages have been shown to be at the highest risk for developing laboratory animal related allergy or asthma likely due to the magnitude of their workplace exposures .the purpose of this study was first to determine whether traditional methods of measuring microbial exposure using endotoxin can serve as a reasonable surrogate for sequencing-based measures of microbial exposure historically the vast majority of occupational studies rely on endotoxin measurement and it is important to understand whether future studies relying on sequencing of microbial dna can be extrapolated to settings with high endotoxin levels.

endotoxin from escheria coli elicited a robust cyto- kine response in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells while endotoxin from bacteroides dorei inhibited the ability of escheria coli endotoxin to stimulate a cytokine response .

prior studies have identified high levels of endotoxin as well as mouse allergen in this work environment  and found a correlation between endotoxin exposure and respiratory symptoms that is independent of allergen exposure .

we hope to address these shortcomings in future work but our study raises important questions about how work-related microbial exposures may alter colonization patterns of the human microbiome.in summary we demonstrate that the microbial structure of academic animal care facilities varies significantly by location rather than by individual facility these differences are not well approximated with measurement of endotoxin levels limiting our ability to extrapolate from prior occupational studies relying only on endotoxin for exposure assessment.

10 participants working in the dirty cage wash areas of the four facilities had human microbiome samples collected before and after their work shift during their work shift each wore personal air samplers to obtain measures of their work microbiome.

facility 1 vs. facility 2 vs. facility 3 vs facility 4 r2  0.14 p  0.59.in order to determine the extent to which endotoxin levels can serve as a proxy for other measures of the microbial environment we calculated the spearman correlation between endotoxin levels and other microbial measures.

we found a modest correlation between mea- sured endotoxin and 16s rdna copy number spearman r  0.54 p  0.09. similarly correla- tion between measured endotoxin levels and various measures of alpha diversity was modest as follows spearman r  0.47 p  0.14 for observed otus spearman r  0.46 p  0.15 for the chao 1 index spearman r  0.67 p  0.02 for the shannon index spearman r  0.59p  0.06 for the inverse simpson index.

notably correlation between measured endotoxin and mouse allergen levels was low spearman r  0.35 p  0.30microbial community composition measured by 16s rdna sequencing shows significant differences between locations despite no differences in measured endotoxin levels.

the change in the proportion of the worker's micro- biome when comparing post- vs. pre- shift samples did not reach statistical significancep  0.14 for the oral microbiome p  0.41 for the nasal microbiome and p  0.23 for the skin microbiome.of note there were no significant differences in community structure of the environmental microbiome in the dirty cage wash areas as measured by area samplers vs. personal samplers worn by the participants r2  0.05 p  0.95 see for relative abundance of major phyla in area vs. personal samplers.discussionwe have demonstrated that in this study unsurprisingly endotoxin is not a reliable proxy for measures of microbial load assessed with quantitative pcr and endotoxin is not a reliable proxy for microbial diversity as measured by 16s amplicon sequencing.

there is one study in settled dust from homes that has compared bacterial load using qpcr against measurement of endotoxin and found at best a moderate correlation between qpcr and endotoxin  this is consistent with our findings.

the most widely used assay for endotoxin is the limulus amebocyte lysate assay  an assay based on the principal that endotoxin initiates an enzymatic clotting cascade in blood of atlantic horseshoe crabs.

sourcetracker was used to identify the contribution of the work microbiome to the human microbiome.resultsmedian endotoxin levels ranged from undetectable to 1.0 eum3.

we hypothesized that 1 measures of airborne endotoxin found only in gram-negative bacteria is not a surrogate for bacterial copy number measured using real-time polymerase chain reaction of the 16s rrna gene or qpcr nor is it a surrogate for bacterial identity and community structure measured with amplicon sequencing of the 16s rrna gene 2 similar to the human microbiome locations with specific functions in each animal care facility analogous to a body site is a stronger pre- dictor of microbial community structure than facility identity analogous to an individual per- son 3 a proportion of the human microbiome in animal care workers can be traced to their work microbiome.materials and methodsenvironmental sample collectionfour academic research mouse facilities participated in this study.

