mice 6 per group received daily treatment with the antibiotics as noted above and fecal specimens were collected prior to treatment on day 3 of treatment and at 2- to 5-day intervals after the final antibiotic dose for analysis of the intestinal microbiota and stool metabolites.impact of antibiotic treatment on enterococci and facultative gram-negative bacillito quantify the burden of c. difficile fresh stool samples were collected on days 1 3 and 7 after the administration of spores.

reported that treatment of mice with the broad-spectrum antibiotic cefoperazone resulted in elevation of sugar alcohols and primary bile acids and decreases in secondary bile acids and scfas 20. moreover c. difficile was able to exploit these metabolic changes to colonize the intestinal tract including use of the primary bile acid taurocholate for germination and sugar alcohols and other carbon sources for growth 20. finally we previously reported that clindamycin or piperacillintazobactam treatment resulted in alteration of a wide range of fecal bacterial metabolites including intermediates in carbohydrate or protein metabolism that increased pentitols gamma-glutamyl amino acids and inositol metabolites or decreased pentoses dipeptides with treatment 9.a number of the compounds that increased or decreased by 10-fold in concentration during antibiotic treatment demonstrated normalization within 6 to 12 days concurrent with recovery of colonization resistance figure 3. thus these compounds could potentially serve as biomarkers or mediators of colonization resistance.

we used a mouse model to compare the effects of tigecycline versus other commonly used antibiotics on colonization resistance to c. difficile and on the metabolic functions of the intestinal microbiota.methods--to assess in vivo colonization resistance to c. difficile mice were challenged with oral c. difficile spores 1 7 or 12 days after completion of 3 days of treatment with subcutaneous saline tigecycline ceftriaxone piperacillin-tazobactam or linezolid.

5 7-8. finally tigecycline inhibits protein synthesis and has been shown to inhibit c. difficile toxin production and sporulation in mice 8.in addition to providing colonization resistance the intestinal microbiota provide a number of metabolic functions that benefit the host 9-10. in mice we demonstrated that recovery of colonization resistance to c. difficile after clindamycin or piperacillintazobactam treatment coincided with restoration of pretreatment levels of several fecal bacterial metabolites 9. here we used the same mouse model to test the hypothesis that tigecycline causes less alteration of fecal bacterial metabolites and colonization resistance to c. difficile compared to other broad-spectrum antibiotics.

at 9 days after the last antibiotic dose none of the treatment groups developed overgrowth of c. difficile after challenge by oral gavage data not shown.effect of treatment on enterococci and facultative gram-negative bacilli by cultureas shown in figure 2a in comparison to controls tigecycline promoted overgrowth of enterococci during treatment with recovery to levels not significantly different from controls by 6 days after the last antibiotic dose.

first tigecycline has potent activity against c. difficile and is excreted in significant concentrations in bile median fecal concentration in human volunteers 5.6 mgkg on day 8 of administration 4. in a human gut model tigecycline inhibited growth and toxin production by c. difficile 5. in mice tigecycline inhibited establishment of colonization but did not reduce concentrations of c. difficile once high-density colonization was established 6-7. second there is some evidence that tigecycline may cause relatively limited disruption of the indigenous microbiota of the colon with sparing of bacteroides spp.

mice 3 per group at each time point were challenged with 104 colony-forming units of non- toxigenic clostridium difficile spores by orogastric gavage 2 or 7 days following treatment with 3 days of daily subcutaneous tigecycline a linezolid b piperacillintazobactam c or ceftriaxone d. concentrations of c. difficile in feces were measured by quantitative cultures 1 black bars 3 grey bars or 7 white bars days following challenge.

in comparison to controls linezolid piperacillin tazobactam and ceftriaxone resulted in significantly reduced levels of enterococci during treatment p  0.01 with a subsequent rebound after discontinuation of treatment to concentrations significantly higher than controls p  0.01. as shown in figure 2b piperacillintazobactam and ceftriaxone suppressed levels of facultative gram-negative bacilli during treatment p  0.001 whereas tigecycline and linezolid promoted overgrowth p  0.01.fecal metabolite analysisfive-hundred fifteen compounds were identified in the fecal samples.

each of the antibiotics resulted in 10-fold increases in 20 or more compounds during treatment day 3 and on day 2 after treatment but fewer than 10 compounds remained elevated 10-fold by day 12 after treatment.

2017 january 18 21 1-20. doi10.20411pai.v2i1.159.impact of tigecycline versus other antibiotics on the fecal metabolome and on colonization resistance to clostridium difficile in micerobin l.p. jump12 david kraft1 kelly hurless1 alex polinkovsky1 and curtis j. donskey121department of medicine infectious diseases division case western reserve university school of medicine cleveland oh2geriatric research education and clinical center cleveland veterans affairs medical center cleveland ohabstractbackground--the glycylcycline antibiotic tigecycline may have a relatively low propensity to promote clostridium difficile infection in part because it causes less disruption of the indigenous intestinal microbiota than other broad-spectrum antibiotics.

cleveland oh 44106 216 791-3800 esupplementary materialssupplementary table 1 can be downloaded here in excel format.jump et al.page 2keywordstigecycline clostridium difficile ceftriaxone piperacillintazobactam linezolid metabolomics colonization resistanceintroductionantimicrobial therapy plays a central role in the pathogenesis of clostridium difficile infection cdi.

nearly all antibiotics have been associated with the development of cdi but clindamycin cephalosporins penicillins and fluoroquinolones are generally considered the agents that pose the greatest risk 1. several recent studies suggest that antibiotics with inhibitory activity against c. difficile eg piperacillintazobactam might be less likely than non-inhibitory antibiotics to promote cdi 1-3. however the potential to prevent cdi through selective prescription of agents with inhibitory activity against c. difficile may be limited if these agents also disrupt the indigenous microbiota of the colon.

difficile strainthe c. difficile strain studied was atcc 43593 a nontoxigenic strain from the american type culture collection atcc.

do piperacillintazobactam and other antibiotics with inhibitory activity against clostridium difficile reduce the risk for acquisition of c. difficile colonization bmc infect dis.

levels of bacterial metabolites in fecal specimens of mice treated with the same antibiotics were analyzed using non- targeted metabolic profiling by gas chromatograph gcmass spectrometry ms and ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem ms uplc-msms.results--all of the antibiotics disrupted colonization resistance to c. difficile when challenge occurred 2 days after treatment.

