these differences were evident in the firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio of the polgamutmut mice which was atypical when compared with the polga micefigure 1. mean -sd weights for sedentary polga mice n  7 sedentary and exercised polgamutmut mice n  7 and 5 respectively at 4 7 and 11 months.figure 2. respiratory chain deficiency in sedentary polga mice a sedentary polgamutmut mice b and exercised polgamutmut mice c colon showing a transverse section through the crypts.

group averages at phylum a1 and a2 and genus b1 and b2 for polgamutmut and polga mice respectively.figure 4. mean percentage change in bacteroidetes and firmicutes between 4 and 11 months for polgamutmut sedentary sed n  5 and exercise exe n  7 and polga mice n  5 at 4 months.firmicutesbacteroidetes ratio supplementary figure 1. there was a significant difference between the polgamutmut mice and polga at 4 months p  .03 and there were significant within group changes between months 4 and 11 for sedentary and exercise polgamutmut mice p  .04 and .04 respectively.

at the genus level the polga mice had higher relative abundance of bacteroides and lower levels of lactobacillus and helicobacter .effect of agingto investigate the effect of the accelerated aging due to mito- chondrial dysfunction in the polgamutmut we compared sedentary polgamutmut mice n  15 vs sedentary polga mice n  21 bacterial profiles at 4 7 and 11 months while removing the exercise polgamutmut mice.

there were significant changes in lactobacillus helicobacter and alistipes over time between the polga and polgamutmut mice p  0.05. changes in lactobacillus helicobacter alistipes and allobaculum over time are presented in supplementary figure 3a.effect of exerciseto evaluate whether exercise was able to modulate the effects of mitochondrial dysfunction on the gut microbiome composition the sedentary polgamutmut mice n  15 were compared with thefigure 5. microbiome for sedentary polgamutmut n  15 and polga mice polga n  21. a principle co-ordinate analysis pcoa of unweighted unifrac analysis.

bacterial profiles of sedentary polgamutmut mice were significantly different from the sedentary polga mice with increases in lactobacillus and mycoplasma and decreases in alistipes odoribacter anaeroplasma rikenella parabacteroides and allobaculum in the polgamutmut mice.

all p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons with the fdr algorithm .resultspolg mice and wild-type characteristicsa total of 57 samples from months 4 7 and 11 were included in the 16s rrna gene based analysis subdivided into three separate groups polgamutmut exercised mice n  7 mean weight 30 - 3 g at 4 months polgamutmut sedentary mice n  5 mean weight 29 - 1 g at 4 months and sedentary polga mice n  7 mean weight 30 - 1 g at 4 months.

both polgamutmut groups and polga mice were well matched at baseline for weight with no significant differ- ences p  0.05. mice in all three groups increased weight between months 4 and 7. however between months 7 and 11 both polgamut mut mouse groups began to lose weight  confirming previ- ously published data .respiratory chain deficiency in colonic cryptsdual coxsdh histochemistry was performed on colonic epithelial sections from polga n  7 and both polgamutmut mouse groups sedentary n  5 and exercised n  7 at 11 months.

there was no significant difference in the proportion of cox deficient crypts between the sedentary mean 78 - 6 and exercised mean 77 - 13 polgamutmut micep  0.05.bacterial profilesbacteroidetes was the most dominant phylum with the major- ity of mice having at least 50 relative abundance in both the polgamutmut and polga groups .

a-diversity analysis showed temporal significance p  .01 with an increased number of otus in the polga mice compared with the polgamutmut mice overall demonstrating that bac- terial diversity increased in polga mice but decreased over time in the polgamutmut mice .

notably the shannon diver- sity index a measurement reflecting the number of different bacterial species and how evenly these are distributed in the sample was not significant within and between polga and polgamutmut mice at any time point p  0.05. comparing the relative abundance between polga and polgamutmut mice demonstrated significant differences p  .05 between eight taxa at genus level .

denotes a significant difference between polgamutmut and polga mice using kruskal-wallis p  .05.exercised polgamutmut mice n  21. the weighted and unweighted unifrac analysis demonstrated that there was no significant differ- ence between exercise and sedentary mice p  0.284 r-squared 0.031 and 0.076 r-squared  0.059 respectively  weighted unifrac supplementary figure 4a however the bray curtis dissimilarity accounts for the abundance of otus was sig- nificant p  .02 r-squared  0.073 supplementary figure 4b.

within exercise and sedentary polgamutmut mice there were changes in the temporal distribution of bacteroides helicobacter and lactobacillus from 4 to 11 months supplementary figure 5. there was a significant increase in the relative abundance of bacteroides p .03 and reductions in both helicobacter and lactobacillius overtime in the exercise group although the latter two were not signifi- cant p  0.05 supplementary figure 5. exercise elicited significant changes in mucispirillum and desulfovibrio over time p  0.05 supplementary figure 3b.discussionin this study we have confirmed that polgamutmut mice display evi- dence of age-related mitochondrial dysfunction in colonic epithelial crypts making them a robust model of accelerated aging .

whether mitochondrial dysfunction directly causes the reductions in allobaculum is unclear however reductions in a primary energy source such as butyrate through reductions in allobaculum may be contributing to reduced colonic epithelia crypt cell proliferation and increased apoptosis previously reported in polgamutmut mice .in addition in the polgamutmut mouse small intestine mtdnamutations were associated with reduced lipid absorption and altered stem progenitor cell cycling .

twelve polgamutmut mice were randomly divided into a sedentary and exercise group at 4 months.

mitochondrial enzyme activity was assessed in colonic epithelial crypts at 11 months for polgamutmut and polga mice.

