mean percent of substantial individual bacterial groups positive for bacteria for each person was nearly the same over time with 72 74 76 72 at the control days accordingly.the patterns in distribution of single bacterial groups over the stool cylinder differed depending on the species but remained the same in the mucus close transient zone and in the center of the fecal cylinder regardless of humic acids supplementation.discussionof the essential bacterial groups observed in our study was due to suppression of bacteroides and probably further resulted from the fact that essential bacterial groups are already normally maximal promoted by the host and their growth cannot be endlessly boosted.aside of the numeric impact on the microbiome we do not know which clinical effects humic acids promoted since all test persons were healthy and all except one tolerated activominr without negative or apparent positive health effects.however reduced diversity and concentrations of colonic microbiota were demonstrated in ibd9 ibs and nongastroenterological diseases such as obesity diabetes rheumatism and multiple sclerosis1013.

the con- centrations of pioneer groups of bifidobacteriaceae  enterobacteriaceae and clostridium difficile increased but the observed differences were statistically not significant.conclusionhumic acids have a profound effect on healthy colonic microbiome and may be potentially interesting sub- stances for the development of drugs that control the innate colonic microbiome.key words fluorescence in situ hybridization colonic microbiota colonic bioreactor humic acids healthy volunteers oral supplementationc the authors 2017. published by baishideng publishing group inc. all rights reserved.introductionall great ancient cultures were based on agriculture for which soil quality and prevention of its exhaustion were absolutely critical.

the concentrations of most bacterial groups within essential 2 of 3 pioneer 3 of 4 and individual substantial groups 19 of 28 increased in rates of 20 to 60. in most cases the increase was observed already at day 10 and continued to day 45. in groups with comparatively low initial mean concentrations ebac1790 cdif198 chis150 eram997 lab158 veil223 an increase could be higher than 70 and up to 96 but thecontribution of these groups to the overall bacterial numbers was relatively low.

they are obviously essential for colonic biofermentation.all other bacterial groups are individual present only in some of the subjects in substantial concentrations mean  0.1 x 109ml or marginal concentrations mean  0.1 x 109ml.four fish probes including bif153 bifidobac teriaceae cdif198 clostridium difficile ebac1790 enterobacteriaceae and clit135 clostridium litu seburense represent individual bacterial groups with pioneer function which are found prevalent in newborns after antibiotic treatment and convalescence patients but are seldom found in low concentration in healthy persons.statistical analysisdifferences between groups were evaluated using the twosided tstudent u test.

humic acids and colonic microbiomeone fish probes representing different bacterial groups were used.resultsthe sum concentration of colonic microbiota in- creased from 20 at day 10 to 30 by day 31 and remained stable until day 45 32 of humic acid supplementation p  0.001. the increase in the concentrations in each person was due to growth of preexisting groups.

although the effects on single microbial groups were multidirectional the sum concentrations of all colonic microbiota increased 20 to 30. the increase occurred in the preexisting microbial groups without changes in the bacterial diversity of the microbiome.applicationsthe main message of our study is that humic acids may be an interesting substrate for the development of defined drugs which deliberately control colonic fermentation in conditions where it is suppressed post-antibiotics convalescence or altered metabolic disorders inflammation obesity etc.

bacteria in the table 1 are arranged to sets of essential individual pioneer individual substantial and individual marginal bio fermenting groups.the mean microbial concentration after 45 d of supplementation of humic acids increased 14 in the essential groups p  0.01 28 ns in the individual pioneer groups and 41 p  0.002 in the individual substantial groups.

concentrations of 24 of the 35 substantial groups increased from 20 to 96. two bacterial groups detected with bac303 bacteroides  and myc657 mycolic acid-containing actinomycetes  fish probes decreased p  0.05. the others remained unaffected.

the fprau probe is described in 66.the fish probes were arranged in table 1 to four functional groups described previously essential bacteria individual pioneer bacteria individual substantial and individual marginal or accidental bacteria7.bacteria detected with erec mainly roseburia bac303 bacteroides fprau faecalibacterium prausnitzii probes are always present in healthy human subjects and together contribute about half of the colonic microbiome.

humic acids and colonic microbiomethe response to humic acids of single bacterial groups was principally the same as in all functional sets of substantial bacteria.

humic acids and colonic microbiomethe ratio of positivenegative individual groups change more than 5.humic acid supplementation did not affect microbial diversity.

even apparent effects of humic acids on the quality of soil and its microbiome remain vague and general as to ancient times and are up to now not disclosed in specific verifiable details8.our data first demonstrate that the humic acids are indeed global fertilizers of microbial growth as proposed by traditional view and lead to an increase of more than 30 in the mean concentrations of the colonic microbiome p  0.001. the promotion of microbial growth involved 24 of 35 investigated substantial bacterial groups.

the increase in concentrations of the pioneer groups was lower 28 and statistically not significant indicating that host stress and convalescence of the colonic microbiome are not present.

telephone 49-30-450514003fax 49-30-450514933received october 4 2015peer-review started october 7 2015first decision october 28 2015revised november 13 2016accepted january 3 2017article in press january 3 2017published online february 7 2017abstractaimto test the effects of humic acids on innate microbial communities of the colon.methodswe followed the effects of oral supplementation with humic acids activominr on concentrations and composition of colonic microbiome in 14 healthy volunteers for 45 d. 3 x 800 mg activominr were taken orally for 10 d followed by 3 x 400 mg for 35 d. colonic microbiota were investigated using multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization fish of carnoy fixated and paraffin embedded stool cylinders.

humic acids and colonic microbiomeand diversity of the human colonic microbiome.

