shenlinbaizhu san recovers gut microbiota diversity inuc rats 38 and the proportion of bacilli and cocci in patients with intestinal flora disorder 39. in spleen-deficient mice shenlinbaizhu san can stimulate the proliferation of lactoba- cillus bifidobacteria and bacteroides and suppress es- cherichia coli and enterococcus 46. it is reported that sijunzi tang can recover gut microbiota diversity in spleen-deficiency animal models 40-41. these controversial and contradictory results in bacterial variation induced by sijunzi tang are discussed in later sessions.used for curing gastroenteritis both buzhongyiqi tang and lizhong tang can recover the diversity of gut microbiota in rats with qi-deficiency 42 while buzhongyiqi tang can promote lactobacillus bifidobacterium enterococcus and bacillus subtilis in mice with intestinal flora disorder 43. other indications of buzhongyiqi tang include bacillary dys- entery archoptosis and descensus uteri and lizhong tang hastable 2 impact of qi-invigorating decoctions on gut microbiomemacrocephalae rhizoma poria and glycyrrhizae radix et rhizomagalactose to cause aging modellactobacillus bifidobacteriacontinuedtraditional decoction and nano-tcm gin- km mice with intestinal flora lactobacillus bifidobacteriaseng radix et rhizoma atractylodis macro- disorder caused by lincomycin enterococcus48cephalae rhizoma poria and glycyrrhizae radix et rhizomahydrochloridenano-tcm had better effect and less dosage required compared with the traditional liquid extract of sijunzi tang.modified sijunzi tang codonopsis radix male sprague-dawley rats with bifidobacteria escherichia49atractylodis macrocephalae rhizoma poria glycyrrhizae radix et rhizoma hericium erinaceus citri reticulatae pericarpium and xylo-oligosaccharide in the ratio of 6  3  3  1  2  1  2spleen-deficiency caused by rhei coliradix et rhizoma and rifampicinpolysaccharide of sijunzi tang codonopsis male balbc mice with spleen- radix atractylodis macrocephalae rhizoma deficiency caused by sennaebe the ratio ofbifidobacterium and50poria and glycyrrhizae radix et rhizomafolium and irregular dietsescherichia colioptimistic curative effects in treatment of hepatitis 42. an- other prescription that has similar clinical indication to lizhong tang in diarrhea and liver diseases is qihuang oral liquid which can be used to treat autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus sle as well 44. the oral liquid is reported to promote bifidobacterium lactobacillus and bacteroidetes and suppress escherichia coli and entero- coccus in patients with liver cirrhosis 44. the stimulation of probiotics and decrease in the intestinal endotoxin may reduce liver damage and improve patient's condition 45.mechanism of qi-invigorating tcms on gut microbiotathe results shown in tables 1 and 2 have demonstrated that most qi-invigorating tcms have promoting effects on probiotic intestinal bacteria like lactobacilli and bifidobacterium.

a better understanding of the role of qi-invigorating tcms in modulating microbial composition and the association between intestinal microbiota and diseases would help reveal the clinical consequences of microbiota alteration and explore opportunities to harness this symbiotic relationship to improve public health.key words gut microbiota traditional chinese medicine qiclc number q5 r965 document code a article id 2095-6975201704-0241-14introductionthe adult human gastrointestinal tract is colonized by about 1014 microorganisms consisting of at least 160 species per individual 1 which are dominated by bacteroides prevotella and ruminococcus 2. amazingly it is estimated that the gut microbiota contains 150-fold more genes than the hu- man genome 3. given their vital impact on nutritional metabolic physiological and immunological processes intes- tinal flora is also referred to as the ''forgotten organ 4. un- der normal physiological conditions those microbes can di- gest food and harvest energy prevent pathogens from invad- ing the organs or tissues and enhance immunity 5. it is indi- cated that the strong evolutionary force has driven the estab- lishment of intestinal flora as indispensable human symbionts because not only its digestive function benefits the human host but the microbiota can also take in energy sources to nourish itself thereby producing a great variety of metabo- lites with potential impacts on human health 4. additionallyreceived on 21-may-2016research funding this work was supported by the national natural science foundation of china nos.

experimental study on the effect of radix codonopsis and poria on intestinal flora in mice j. chin j clin pharmacol 2011 272142-145.wang g. study on adjustment mechanism of codonopsis radix polysaccharide on intestinal flora disturbance in mice d. jiamusi jiamusi university 2010.song my kim bs kim h. influence of panax ginseng on obesity and gut microbiota in obese middle-aged korean women j. j gins res 2014 382 106-115.yoshikawa k shimada m kuwahara t et al.

how- ever these drugs have been found to alter the genomic taxo- nomic and functional capacity of human intestinal flora with rapid or even persistent effects 60. in addition clinical uses of broad-spectrum antibiotics reduce gut microbiota diversity increase chances for horizontal gene transfer and enable in- trusion of pathogens through depletion of natural niches 60. for example lincomycin treated mice have shown distur-bance in intestinal flora severe damage to the intestinal mu- cosa and bacterial translocation to liver 29 33 43. qi-invigorating tcms such as sijunzi tang qiweibaizhu san and buzhongyiqi tang can be used to adjust such intestinal flora imbalance caused by antibiotic treatment 33 43 48. si- junzi tang can promote probiotics such as lactobacillus and bifidobacteria suppress the growth of enterococcus acceler- ate the recovery of intestinal mucosa and reduce liver bacte- rial dislocation 48. mice with intestinal flora disorder caused by a mixture of lincomycin hydrochloride cefradine and ampicillin sodium and treated with qiweibaizhu san are ob- served with a significant increase in bifidobacteria lactic acid bacteria and total gut bacteria and yeast 33. the amount of mildew decreases in gut and escherichia coli is restored to normal level 33. buzhongyiqi tang shows enhancing effects on lactobacillus bifidobacterium enterococcus and bacil- lus subtilis in mice with intestinal flora dysbiosis induced by lincomycin hydrochloride and ampicillin sodium 43. the injury of intestinal mucosa in model mice can be healed and goblet cells are increased 43. generally speaking qi-invigorating tcms may be a practical strategy in prevention of antibiotics associated bowel injuries and disturbances of the intestinal homeostasis 61.qi-invigorating tcms and agingage-related intestinal flora alterations are associated with immunosenescence and inflammageing.

qi-invigorating tcms are mostly relevant to intestinal flora because they are often administrated orally used to treat diseases with gut mi- crobial dysbiosis 8. since those tcms inevitably interact with gut microbiota when passing through the gastrointestinal tract many researchers have investigated metabolites of qi-invigorating tcms by intestinal flora and realized that indeed these metabolites have important pharmacological activities and play various roles in the disease treatment 8. on the other hand qi-invigorating tcms also have an impact on the quantity or abundance of gut microbiota 9.in this article we will briefly review the interaction be- tween gut microbiota and qi-invigorating tcms from two aspects the metabolism of qi-invigorating tcm by intestinal flora and the change of local microflora after tcm treatment.

pi-deficiency and gastrointestinal microbiota j. world chin j digestol 2012 2034 3287-3291.yang xd zhang j wang w. effect and mechanism of shenlinbaizhu powder on intestinal protection in mouse with spleen deficiency syndrome j. j mudanjiang med univ 2009 305 9-11.yang f wang f shen dk et al.

clinical study of changfukang decoction on chronic diarrhea caused by intestinal flora disor- der j. jiangxi j tradit chin med 2003 34252 11-13.sun j wang j hu jp et al.

however the gut microbiota can transform ast into cycloastragenol a highly bioavailable triterpenoid sapogenin that has significant telomerase activating and antioxidant activities making it an ideal functional food and anti-aging drug 10. glycyrrhizin which also has the same problem of low bioavailability can be metabolized by intestinal flora into glycyrrhetinic acid that is easily absorbed 11. liquiritin another main component in glycyrrhiza can be metabolized by hydrolysis hydrogenation methylation deoxygenation and acetylation under microbiota metabolism with the major pathway being the conversion of liquiritigenin 12.alternation of gut microbiota after treatment with qi-invigorating tcmsimpact of qi-invigorating herbs on gut microbiotathe interaction between qi-invigorating tcms and gut microbiota has been highlighted by pharmacognostic scientists.

intestinal microbiota diet and health j. brit j nutr 2014 1113 387-402.arumugam m raes j pelletier e et al.

the gut microbiota and host health a new clinical frontier j. gut 2016 652 330-339.lata j jurankova j kopacova m et al.

influence of sijunzi decoc- tion on intestinal flora diversity in spleen-deficiency rats j. chin j anim vet sci 2013 4412 2029-2035.peng y jin j wu cf et al.

the impact of the gut microbiota on human health an integrative view j. cell 2012 1486 1258-1270.leong pk wong hs chen j et al.

red ginseng and semen coicis can improve the structure of gut microbiota and relieve the symptoms of ulcerative colitis j. j ethnopharmacol 2015 162 7-13.ding s. the effect of nine kinds of spleen and stomach of chi- nese herbal medicine on three kinds of typical probiotics in vi- tro and ulcerative colitis rats d. baoding agricultural uni- versity of hebei 2013.hu y lin fl zou ql et al.

fermented rhizoma atrac- tylodis macrocephalae alleviates high fat diet-induced obesity in association with regulation of intestinal permeability and microbiota in rats j. sci rep-uk 2014 5 8391.yan wl wang ss ren x. experimental study of astractylodes on intestinal microflora in mice j. shandong j tradit chin med 2011 306 417-419.wang r zhou g wang m et al.

enterotypes of the human gut microbiome j. nature 2011 4737346 174-180.qin j li r raes j et al.

