clin microbiol rev 23299-323stressmann fa rogers gb marsh p lilley ak daniels tw carroll mp et al 2011 does bacterial density in cystic fibrosis sputum increase prior to pulmonary exacerbation j cyst fibros 10357-365prevaes sm de winter-de groot km janssens hm de steenhuijsen piters wa tramper-stranders ga wyllie al et al 2016 development of the nasopharyngeal microbiota in infants with cystic fibrosis.

however a switch to the moraxella - and corynebacterium - dolosigranulum-dominated profiles already cited as potential beneficial bacterial strains was demonstrated in a significantly earlier stage in children born by vaginal delivery compared to the children born by c-section suggesting that the increased risk of short- and long-term respiratory morbidity frequently reported in children born by c-section might be due at least in part to the impact of this mode of delivery on the urt microbiota composition  .regarding the type of feeding it has been evidenced that breastfeeding can be significantly more effective in condition- ing the development of a protective nasopharyngeal microbiota than formula feeding.

in a prospective study car- ried out in children whose nasopharyngeal secretions were examined at 1.5 6 12 and 24 months of age biesbroek et al.

j infect dis 1951661-1670bogaert d van belkum a sluijter m luijendijk a de groot r rumke hc et al 2004 colonisation by streptococcus pneumoniae and staphylococcus aureus in healthy children.

plos one 10e0122765biesbroek g tsivtsivadze e sanders ea montijn r veenhoven rh keijser bj et al 2014 early respiratory microbiota composi- tion determines bacterial succession patterns and respiratory health in children.

bmc immunol 182marchisio p santagati m scillato m baggi e fattizzo m rosazza c et al 2015 streptococcus salivarius 24smb administered by nasal spray for the prevention of acute otitis media in otitis-prone children.

lancet respir med 4 627-635zemanick et wagner bd robertson ce stevens mj szefler sj accurso fj et al 2015 assessment of airway microbiota and in- flammation in cystic fibrosis using multiple sampling methods.

found that moraxella was the most common genus dom- inating 21 and 38 of all nasopharyngeal microbiota collect- ed in healthy children and in children with respiratory disease respectively .

the same authors evidenced that increased presence of haemophilus could be detected during summer months whereas moraxella-dominated microbiota were more com- mon during winter.nasopharyngeal microbiota in otherwise healthy children with respiratory infectionupper respiratory infections uris and lower respiratory in- fections lris are extremely frequent in children particularly in the first years of life.

monitored a group of children between 6 weeks and 6 months of age and reported that dolosigranulum abundance was negatively associated with the number of uris from which the children suffered in that period .

reported a strict association between streptococcus- haemophilus- and moraxella-dominated mi- crobiota and the risk of uri whereas the opposite was evi- denced in subjects with corynebacterium- and alloiococcus- dominated microbiota .similar findings were reported when respiratory microbiota was studied in children with aom the most common bacte- rial disease in infants and young children .

further variations between cf children and healthy children are associated with antibiotic use .

pneumoniae and h. influenzae was not common suggest- ing that moraxella or corynebacteriumdolosigranulum might have a potential protective effect and reduce the risk of colonisation by pathobionts.partially overlapping findings have been reported by teo et al.

theo et al.

bosch et al.

