nomenclature of samples 12 processed by enzymatic lysis 34 processed by sonification 13 processed immediately after sampling 24 processed after a storage period of 24 h at room temperature.

thetable 1comparison of dna extraction methods and sequencing results.samplesmethodstorage time hdna ngtotal good quality reads 103 readsdistribution of good quality reads method e enzymatic lysis s lysis by sonification.table 2impact of sample processing on the ascertained relative abundance of bacterial species in the metagenome of throat swabs.a r2 for the comparison of the abundance of individual species between samples processed immediately or 24 h later.b r2 for the comparison of the abundance of individual species between first and second aliquots recovered consecutively by sonication within one minutedominant organism ralstonia pickettii is known to survive autoclav- ing and to escape sterile filtration which may explain why it was the major contaminant of our 'sterile' water  the agar gel with amies medium was contaminated with r. picket- tii and inhabitants of the normal flora of human upper airways and skin this finding is somewhat at odds with the statement on quality control of the manufacturer of the transystem that 'all media contain less than two nonviable cells per 10 high power micro- scopic fields'  .comparison of dna extraction methodsisolation by biochemical lysis yielded more dna from the throat swabs 273 197 ng than isolation by sonification 76 59 ng .

in case of the mechanical lysis the cells had first been removed from the swab tip by sonication aliquotfollowed by intense squeezing aliquot 2. both aliquots gave the same quantitative profiles of the bacterial metagenomes the correlation coefficients r2 varied between 0.816 and 0.993 mean 0.958 impact of storage period on metagenome data setsthe storage of the throat swabs in the agar gel for 24 h at room temperature affected the metagenome profile.

swab tips were inserted into agar gel withamies medium of the 108c transystem copan italia brescia which according to the manufacturer and the literature  is an adequate transport system for aerobic and anaerobic bacteria and maintains 100 survival of most test bacteria for at least 24 h. half of the samples were processed immediately and the other half was stored in the dark at room temperature and processed 24 h after sampling.

when we comparedthe data sets obtained from the swabs that had been either pro- cessed immediately t  0 h or after storage t  24 h the yield of total dna had decreased during the storage period by 30-95 in seven of the eight pairs.

composition of bacterial communities in two samples of autoclaved deionized water used for the set-up of solutions in the laboratory and in an agar gel with amies medium classified as sterile by the manufacturer.extraction to final data output a shipping time of less than 4 h at 4 c is recommended  but this request is often not manageable in environments with poor infrastructure and logistics but even in the context of collaborative field studies or multicenter clinical trials the shipping time to the core laboratory may take more than 24 h. we wanted to test the impact of storage and processing on the outcome of metagenome analysis.

dna was isolated by sonification or enzymatic lysis either immediately or after 24 h storage in agar gel amies transport medium at room temperature.

the bars indicate the normalized difference d between the number n of reads of samples processed immediately t  0 h or after a storage period of 24 h at room temperature in agar gel with amies medium d  n0 h - n24 hn0 h. correspondingly a value of d  0 indicates no change positive values indicate death and negative values growth of bacteria.

our findings make us suspicious that this 'consolidated' knowledge reflects more in vitro storage artefacts than the real world.recommendations to generate unbiased airway metagenome datathe results of our methodology-driven study can be trans- formed into some common sense recommendations for future metagenome studiesspecimens should be immediately processed after sampling or frozen promptly at -80 c.intermittent storage in traditional transport medium agar gelamies should be avoided.

conversely storage of samples for 24 h produced severely distorted metagenomes.

the reader may note that values around 0 are more an exception than the rule implicating that the storage for 24 h had strongly distorted the composition of the bac- terial communities.

thirty-seven of the 48 most abundant species could not be detected anymore after 24 h storage time in at least one of the eight samples.

when we compared the relative abundance of bacterial species in the corre- sponding 0 h and 24 h metagenomes the linear regression of whole data sets showed correlation coefficients r2 varying from 0.188 to 0.982 differentiates the storage-induced changes of abundance by species.

this is still true for archaea moulds fungi and viruses but the encyclopedia of completely sequenced bacterial genomes particularly pathogens has substan- tially increased during the last five years so that at least the bacterial communities in habitats of medical inter- est can be satisfactorily covered by an aligned whole metagenome shotgun sequence.value and significance of a metagenome analysis sensitively depend on adequate sampling and processing for example on the amount and microbial composition of available template  particularly in case of minute start- ing material of less than one nanogram of dna  the metagenome data output is moreover sen- sitively influenced by the employed dna extraction method  the proto- col for library preparation  and the applied sequencing technology if the site of sampling is distant from the laboratory the collected spec- imen is typically stored in preservation medium and then shipped to the institution which is capable to process the sample from dna 0168-1656c 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.fig.

this curated data set was then used for the identification of taxa dna viruses bacteria archaea moulds and fungi.resultshuman airway bacterial metagenomes shows typical human airway bacterial metagenomes of healthy subjects that are dominated by rothia prevotella strep- tococci and fusobacteria.

