the relative proportion of firmicutes was significantly lower in the wd group compared to control p  0.0049. birth weight had no effect on the relative proportions of either phylum.discussionthis was a pilot study investigating the gut microbiota in an established guinea pig model of metabolic syndrome.

diversity analysis was performed using the r package vegan version 2.3-2 differential abundance analysis was performed using the r package aldex2 version 1.4.0 and all additional analysis was performed in base r version 3.2.2. utilized scripts are provided in and demultiplexed reads are available in the ncbi sequence read archive bioproject idnotes.a nbw normal birth weight or 90 g.b lbw low birth weight or 85 g.c ns not significant.d alb albumin.e alp alkaline phosphatase.f alt alanine aminotransferase.g ba bile acids.h bun blood urea nitrogen.i tbil total bilirubin.values are represented as mean - the standard error of the mean.

these results describe the git microbiota in a guinea pig model of lbw and wd associated metabolic syndrome and highlight several wd specific git alterations associated with human metabolic disease.how to cite this article al et al.

the fecal microbiota of normal birth weight nbw and lbw young guinea pig offspring weaned onto either a control diet cd or wd was determined with 16s rrna gene next generation sequencing at young adulthood following the early rapid growth phase after weaning.

diet but not birth weight was a significant factor where wd groups had higher albumin alanine aminotransferase and cholesterol than cd groups p  0.031 p  0.011 p  0.0001 respectively.

similarly this bacterial group may be outcompeted in our wd group but act as a marker of health in the cd animals.when analyzing the data at the phylum level it was observed that the guinea pig fecal microbiota is dominated by bacteroidetes and firmicutes in all diet and birth weight groups similar to other rodent reports  .

diet and birth weight did not have any effect on the relative proportion of bacteroidetes but the proportion of firmicutes was decreased in the wd group compared to the cd group.

functional metagenomics or reporting changes in particular genera and species are likely to provide more insight .alanine aminotransferase is one of the most commonly used markers in screening for liver disease and levels were elevated in our wd fed animals independent of birth weight .

the gastrointestinal tract git microbiota is essential to metabolic health and the prevalence of the western diet wd high in fat and sugar is increasing with evidence highlighting a negative interaction between the git and wd resulting in liver dysfunction.

open access impact of birth weight and postnatal diet on the gut microbiota of young adult guinea pigskait al ousseynou sarr kristyn dunlop gregory b. gloorgregor reid jeremy burton and timothy r.h. regnault1 department of microbiology and immunology university of western ontario london ontario canada2 canadian centre for human microbiome and probiotic research london ontario canada3 lawson health research institute london ontario canada4 department of physiology and pharmacology university of western ontario london ontario canada5 department of obstetrics and gynaecology university of western ontario london ontario canada6 children's health research institute london ontario canada7 department of biochemistry university of western ontario london ontario canada8 department of surgery division of urology university of western ontario london ontario canadaabstractbackground.

additionally an adverse in utero environment such as placental insufficiency resulting in low birth weight lbw offspring contributes to an increased risk of metabolic diseases such as fatty liver infiltration and liver dysfunction in later life.

2017 impact of birth weight and postnatal diet on the gut microbiota of young adult guinea pigs.

this is referred to as the ''thrifty hypothesis'' whereby low birth weight lbw offspring experience permanent changes in their metabolic function in utero which are determinant in later postnatal life when challenged with nutrient excess .

the model utilizes a combination of uterine artery ablation to induce lbw offspring with a postnatal diet high in total fat and sugar and produces a non-overweight phenotype with impaired vascular function increased visceral adiposity and liver fibrosis with fatty infiltration of the liver hallmarks of metabolic disease    .in the current study birth weight was not significantly associated with an altered git microbiota.

the in utero environment resulting in low birth weight and metabolic disease at young adulthood appeared to have no impact upon the git microbiota contrary to other reports in rats .

