red initially visibly clean eggs before disinfection light green initially visibly dirty eggs before disinfection orange initially visibly clean eggs after 1. fumigation light blue initially visibly dirty eggs after 1. fumigation and chlorine wash purple initially visibly clean eggs after 2. fumigation dark blue initially visibly dirty eggs after 2. fumigation brown initially visibly clean eggs after spray disinfection yellow initially visibly clean eggs after spray disinfection.

for each group of eggs initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty respectively at each of the four sampling points the two samples with highest dna quality score were submitted to 16s rrna sequencing.to evaluate within group diversity of egg sam- ples from the same disinfection time two additional samples were included for the initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty egg groups before disin- fection respectively as well as two samples from each group after the final disinfection step figures and 16s rrna amplicon library preparationbacterial v3-4 16s rrna sequencing libraries were prepared by a custom protocol based on an illumina protocol.

fumigation43 10216 102virocid sprayed321only visibly dirty eggs were washed in chlorine solution.the average cfu per sample of visibly dirty eggs was significantly higher p  0.05 than average cfu per sample of visibly clean eggs.mg-rast server as broiler egg microbiome  .resultsthe cfu for eggshell sampled at four different time pointsthe average cfu of eggshell samples obtained before disinfection after the chlorine wash only for initially visibly dirty eggs and first fumigation step after the second fumigation step and after spray disinfection is presented in table .

in total the disinfection procedure reduced the bacterial load per sample with an average of 104 and 106 cfu for the initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty eggs respectively.microbiome analysethe eggshell microbiome was characterized by 16s rrna gene sequencing for samples of eggs in the ini- tially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty groups respectively before and after disinfection procedures.the 25 most abundant bacteria found using method1 in all samples is presented in figure .

bd before disinfection ad1 after 1. disinfection ad2 after 2. disinfection ad3 after 3 disinfection c sample from initially visibly clean eggs d sample from initially visibly dirty eggs.table 3. alfa diversity of merged samples of visibly clean and visibly dirty eggs at different disinfection levels.chao11 to 23disinfectiononly one sample passed the quality check in mg-rast.eggs respectively but after final disinfection the mi- crobial communities from the two groups were consid- erably more similar figure .after quality control of sequences using the second bioinformatics approach see materials and methods the resulting dataset consisted of 3011262 high-quality sequences that were uploaded to mg-rast.

rarefaction curves for 87 2023 of the individual samples approached a plateau stage indicating that the sampling of the community and sequencing cover- age was sufficiently deep to detect a nearly maximum numbers of otus supplementary figure .the total eggshell microbiome of initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty eggs sampled before and after disinfection consisted of seven phyla firmicutes 63.0 actinobacteria 17.2 proteobacteria 6.9bacteroidetes 4.4 tenericutes 3.1 fusobacteria 3.0 and cyanobacteria 2.3. firmicutes was the dominant phylumin most sample groups except ad1-c and varied from 18.8 to 100.0 figure  a. al- though phyla distribution in individual samples within the groups was quite variable firmicutes remained the most dominant figure  a. in both pooled and in- dividual sample an increase of bacteroidetes and a de- crease of actinobacteria abundances after the final dis- infection procedure in both initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty egg groups were detected.when considering the three main phyla at the fam- ily level a decrease of clostridiaceae and an increase3908olsen et al.figure 4. identification of samples with similar microbial communities using multivariate statistics pca.

grey dots represent official taxonomic units out and the 5 otus with most influence on the pca have been assigned a genus name.of lactobacillaceae within the firmicutes phylum in initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty eggs after the final disinfection procedure can be seen in both pooled and individual samples figure b and figure b. a decrease of kineosporiaceae actinobac- teria and an increase in bacteroidaceae bacteroidetes in both sample groups was also found figure a and figure a. the abundance of changes of other families was less noticeable and varied between initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty eggs.

in conclusion the in- vestigated disinfection procedure is effective in reduc- ing the bacterial load and by adding a chlorine wash for initially visibly dirty eggs the microbiome of ini- tially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty eggs had a highly similar microflora after the final disinfection step.key words disinfection hatching eggs microbiome cfu2017 poultry science 963901-3911 introductionunder natural conditions avian eggs are equipped with a diverse microflora of commensal strains board .

there was a significantly higher load of bacteria on initially visibly dirty egg before dis- infection but after the first disinfection step using chlo- rine and fumigation the bacterial load per sample from the initially visibly dirty eggs group was comparable with the bacterial load per sample of initially visibly clean eggs.

hereafter they were fumigated together with the initially visibly clean eggs mostly nest eggs.the first round of fumigation reduced average the cfu for initially visibly clean eggs to approximately103 cfu per sample while the average cfu of the eggshell for initially visibly dirty eggs was reduced to an aver- age for 102 cfu per sample after the combined effect of chlorine washing plus fumigation table .

in the present study the process of chlorine washing and fumigation combined was able to reduce cfu per sample to a level comparable to samples of ini- tially visibly clean egg after fumigation.the second fumigation reduced the average cfu with2.5 times for initially visibly clean egg samples and 1.25 times for initially visibly dirty egg samples table .

after an initial wash in chlorine of the initially visibly dirty eggs the cfu of the eggshell of initially visibly dirty and visibly clean eggs respectively were not significantly different.

the study included a group of visibly clean and a group of visibly dirty eggs.

the disin- fection procedure reduced the bacterial load from more than 104 cfu initially visibly clean eggs and 105 cfu initially visibly dirty eggs to less than 10 cfu per sam- ple after disinfection for both groups of eggs.

the micro- biome of both initially visibly clean and initially visibly dirty eggs had the highest abundances of the phyla fir- micutes proteobacteria and bacteroidetes.

