it is important to acknowledge that the baseline microbiome varies among normal individuals and that colonization by certain bacteria appears to be conferring either a protective or deleterious effect on subsequent viral infection described in .however contrary to the gastrointestinal tract or skin niches it is only recently that the respiratory tract microbiome has been studied.although more than 7000 articles were associated with the microbiome keyword in pubmed with a slight part focusing on respiratory tract microbiome only a small proportion focused on microbiome disturbance in viral infections especially in respiratory tract infections .impact of the respiratory microbiota on viral infection pathogenesisafter a first period focusing on the characterization of the composition and the physiological variations of the healthy respiratory microbiome most recent studies have focused on changes induced during a so- called pathological situation infectious or not.

bacterial microbiota could have a direct effect on viral infection enhancing virion liberation or virion adherence to a new host cell or an indirect effect on immune response to viral response to infection activating toll-like receptors tlr leading to cellular activation of dendritic cells bt lymphocytes and monocytes via interleukin il secretion.

the lps-induced response reduces tissue damage associated with viral infection and thereby improves the survival of infected animals 37. however these data are still debated while it is well- known that excessive inflammation following influenza virus infection is responsible for the most severe disease cytokine storm process immunosuppressive treatments have been found to be ineffective against influenza in clinical trials 38. similarly to sepsis the timing of immunomodulatory intervention is likely to be critical for successful influenza management 39.similarly activation of tlr-2 -6 and -9 by synthetic agonists nasally administered reduce parainfluenza virus titers.

studies focusing on the microbiome associated with transcriptomic analyses of the host response and deep characterization of the pathogen would lead to a better understanding of viral pathogenesis and open avenues for biomarker development and innovative therapeutics.keywords respiratory tract viral infections respiratory microbiome 16s whole genome sequencing ngsintroductionburden of acute respiratory infections ariacute respiratory infections aris are the most common type of acute infection worldwide in both adults and children and are mainly caused by viruses including respiratory syncytial virus rsv human rhinovirus hrv influenza virus iv or metapneumovirus hmpv.

for example it has been well established that pneumococcus super infection following iv infection dramatically increases the lethality of influenza in a mouse model and in humans 910.however how the whole respiratory microbiota is associated with influenza severity is still largely unexplored 111213. the respiratory microbiota could impact ari outcome through bacteriome- bacteriome or bacteriome-virome interactions .

this exacerbation was associated with overexpression of tlr gene pathways and genes implicated in neutrophil response during rsv infection 21. in this study infants with np microbiota dominated by staphylococcus aureus showed a limited immune response and experienced mild rsv infection.

some insights about causation were provided by a large prospective longitudinal study following the np microbiota of infants at 2 6 and 12 months and during ari 22. the authors were able to show that early np colonization with moraxella or streptococcus was associated with an earlier first episode of upper or lower respiratory tract infection respectively.in addition there have been numerous studies describing the association between moraxella respiratory tract colonization and increased severity of rsv infection with rsv being reciprocally able to strongly alter the respiratory microbiome of the host 22232433. during winter co-infections combining rsv and moraxella are not uncommon because these two pathogens co-circulate during the coldest seasons.

in europe lower respiratory tract infection is the eighth leading cause of disease in both adults and children 1. aris account for an estimated 40 of all healthcare-associated infections in pediatric long-term care facilities 2. most ofthese viral infections could lead to very severe forms of respiratory diseases.

for example it is estimated that 33.8 million new episodes of rsv-associated acute respiratory infection occurred worldwide in children younger than 5 years of age during the 2005 epidemics with at least 10 of these children necessitating hospital admission 3.attempts to prevent respiratory viral infections are currently limited to vulnerable high-risk groups such as immunocompromised patients the elderly or young children and include optimized vaccination reduced exposure and prophylactic treatment.

unfortunately only few studies have compared baseline healthy pre-infection microbiome and post-infection modified microbiome in acute infections as it is very difficult to get human samples before viral infection except in challenge studies 78. animal studies provide some insight into the mechanisms yet their respiratory microbiome is very different to the human microbiome and in addition while there are lots of studies describing bacteria-virus interactions between defined pathogens only a few studies have analyzed trans-kingdom interactions within the respiratory microbiota.

the presence of these species was associated with severe anatomical consequences leading to very poor clinical outcomes for the infected hosts respiratory distress or even death.bacterial microbiota may also promote viral infection andor pathogenesis by a direct effect on epithelial cells.

tlr3 as other tlr is implicated in viral genome detection and immunity and so is responsible for host response to infection via immunological pathways such as the nf-kb pathway.

such co-infections are described as being associated with more frequent otitis media and it is suggested that viral infection increases the incidence of bacterial super infection.for the time being published studies have only partially explored the complex mechanisms associating the microbiome with the immune response to ari.

this approach is very promising especially in viral infection management where treatments are very limited 3536.respiratory microbiome a therapeutic targetseveral studies suggest that the respiratory microbiome may be a promising target for ari prophylaxis and treatment.

furthermore due to the implication of host immunity in the protection against but also in the development of infectious viral disease the study of the cellular response to the transcriptomic infection is not to be neglected.

