as such prenatal factors which impact the maternal microbiome also influence the newborn's microbiome reviewed in6.the neonatal microbiome follows a general developmental process although significant inter-individual variation is prominent131516.

this process is thought tosilverman et al.page 3occur either through epigenetic epithelial andor immune system changes or by providing a niche for specific microbial colonization that influences long-term health outcomes11.however exactly how the microbiome is established and the impacts of prenatal and postnatal exposures have on the development of the microbiome is only starting to be elucidated but offers great promise in predicting preventing and treating a variety of diseases.the neonatal gi tract rapidly becomes colonized with microbiota.

the microbiome of neonates and infants is rapidly changing but stabilizes into an adultlike microbiome by 3 years of age1622.

a multitude of factors such as the maternal microbiome mode of delivery diet and antibiotic exposure influence this process6.moreover murine models suggest that not only is the fetus exposed to the maternal gi microbiome prior to delivery but that colonization of mice during gestation has direct effects on the development of the offspring's immune system23.

moreover studies have suggested a link between the caesarian-section-associated microbiome and long-term outcomes such as asthma29 gastroenteritis celiac disease30 and diabetes2732.silverman et al.page 4infant diet also contributes to the development and composition of the microbiome.

pubmed 24386174morrow al lagomarcino aj schibler kr et al.

2017 march  461 61-76. doi10.1016j.gtc.2016.09.010.impact of antibiotics on necrotizing enterocolitis and antibiotic- associated diarrheamichael a. silverman1 liza konnikova2 and jeffrey s. gerber31division of infectious diseases the children's hospital of philadelphia philadelphia pa 19104 and department of pediatrics perelman school of medicine university of pennsylvania philadelphia pa 191042department of pediatric and newborn medicine brigham and women's hospital boston ma 02115 and department of pediatrics harvard medical school boston ma 021153center for pediatric clinical effectiveness division of infectious diseases the children's hospital of philadelphia philadelphia pa 19104 and department of pediatrics perelman school of medicine university of pennsylvania philadelphia pa 19104 summaryantibiotics induce changes or dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiome.

probiotics or other microbiota-targeted therapies may provide effective strategies to prevent and treat nec and aad.keywordsantibiotics microbiome necrotizing enterocolitis antibiotic-associated diarrhea clostridium difficile probioticscorresponding author michael a. silverman equal contributorspublisher's disclaimer this is a pdf file of an unedited manuscript that has been accepted for publication.

in either case they work in conjunction with the host's immune system to resolve infections.antibiotics and the microbiomethe intestinal microbiome is a complex ecosystem in which there is tremendous interdependence and cross talk between microbial species and between the microbes and their host.

vancomycin and gram- positive organisms their effects on the microbiome go beyond just those clinically targeted microbes.

for example removing certain species of bacteria opens niches for other microbes to expand which in turn can result in microbiome disruptions or microbial dysbiosis such as when treatment with the gram-positive microbe-targeted antibiotic vancomycin leads to loss of some gram-negative taxa3.

the route of exposure also matters as parenteral antibiotic treatment can impact the intestinal microbiome via biliary excretion of antibiotic into the intestinal lumen4.

newborn's initial microbiota is acquired by vertical transmission of the maternal microbiome during delivery13-16 although there is evidence for17-19 and against20 low level microbial colonization of the placenta in utero.

in the first month facultative anaerobic microbes from the enterobacteriaceae family a large group of gram-negative bacteria that includes pathogens such as e. coli along with non-pathogenic bacteria dominates the neonatal microbiome.

one way to monitor the development of the microbiome is to utilize microbial ecology concepts such as alpha diversity which describes the number and distribution of species present in a given individual21.

