median percent abundances of bacterial taxa in the gut from anakinra- and itf-2357-treated animals.pthe highlights in the krv column represent significant differences compared with uninfected rats the highlights in the anakinra and itf-2357 columns represent significant differences versus the uninfected control the highlights in the krv plus anakinra or krv plus itf-2357 represent significant differences compared with krv.614the levels of significance for these comparisons are indicated in .entry represents a higher-order group of taxa that could not be assigned to finer levels of taxonomic resolution.

we used this animal to test the hypothesis that intervention with agents that block innate immunity and diabetes is associated with a shift in the gut micro- biota.

together the data suggest that itf-2357 and anakinra differentially influence the innate immune sys- tem and the intestinal microbiota and highlight the potential use of the gut microbiome as a surrogate means of assessing anti-inflammatory immune effects in type 1 diabetes.introductiontype 1 diabetes t1d is a proinflammatory disorder that leads to the specific destruction of insulin producing beta cells.

the period of time between seroconversion and diabetes provides an opportunity for disease prevention.the intestinal microbiota plays an essential role in gut development metabolism and immunity reviewed in refs.

2008 45572161109-13. pmidvaarala o atkinson ma neu j. the perfect storm for type 1 diabetes the complex interplay between intestinal microbiota gut permeability and mucosal immunity.

indeed activation of the innate immune system with tlr ago- nists such as the viral mimic polyinosinic polycytidylic acid poly ic or cpg dna followed by infection with krv substantially exacerbates diabetes  .

we present data indicating that in addition to altering the innate immune system intervention with anakinra and itf-2357 differentially modulates the gut bacterial structure as reflected by shifts in the overall gut bacte- rial microbiomes and bacterial diversity and alterations in the abundance of individual bacte- rial taxa most notably those of the bacteroidetes phylum.

owing to the interdependence between the immune system and the gut microbiota   we postulate that the differential effect exerted by anakinra and itf-2357 on the gut microbiome might be associated at least in part with dif- ferent effects they have on the immune system.

likewise whether anakinra- and itf-2357-induced alterations in the abun- dance of gut bacteria can be used as a biomarker of therapy outcome awaits further investigation.in conclusion we show that two different anti-inflammatory drugs that modulate innate immunity and the gut microbiome and innate immunity in diabetes-susceptible animals.

the lew1.wr1 rat develops autoimmunity following infection with the parvovirus kilham rat virus krv via mechanisms linked with activation of proinflammatory pathways and alterations in the gut bacterial composition.

lastly principal component analysis implied that itf-2357 and anakinra induce distinct gut micro- biomes compared with those from untreated animals or rats provided krv only.

in this analysis infection with krv was not significantly associated with alterations in the fecal microbiome compositionp  0.18 whereas drug treatment p  0.003 and the krvdrug interaction p  0.03 were significantly linked with the gut bacterial composition .

lew1.wr1 rats were left untreated were injected with krv were treated with krv plus anakinra or itf-2357 itf beginning on the day of infection or treated with anakinra or itf-2357 only as indicated in the figure.

similar to our previously published pcr findings   the high- throughput data from the current study indicate that krv increases the abundances of bifido- bacterium and clostridium compared with the uninfected control animals and therapies with itf-2357 and anakinra reduce the level of these genera compared with rats administered krv only data not shown however the differences seen using the present highthroughput approach were not statistically significant probably due to the considerable differences in the size of the data sets associated with these surveys as well as the different statistical approaches used for data analysis.finally itf-2357 and anakinra modulated the abundances of more than 20 taxa in the intestine of uninfected animals of which 11 overlapped between the two agents.

ryan4 miranda e. kroehl4 daniel n. frank23 danny zipris11 barbara davis center for childhood diabetes university of colorado denver aurora colorado united states of america 2 division of infectious diseases university of colorado school of medicine aurora colorado united states of america 3 university of colorado microbiome research consortium mirc aurora colorado united states of america 4 department of biostatistics and informatics colorado school of public health and university of colorado denver aurora colorado united states of america open accesscitation needell jc dinarello ca ir d robertson ce ryan sm kroehl me et al.

