cortex hydrolysis and subsequent cortex expansion allowstable 1 differences between the resistance profiles of bacillus spores and vegetative cells against adverse environmental and gastrointestinal tract conditionsconditionvegetative cellssporesreferencesextreme ph inactivated with variable kinetics depending on the specific nutrients composition and strains usednot inactivated between 1.0 and 5.0 in gastric medium clavel et al.stomach acidhighly sensitivetrigger germinationciffo et al.

in a consensus opinion published in 2014 the expert panel re- inforced the importance of viability of probiotic microor- ganisms by defining them as ''live microorganisms that when administered in adequate amounts confer a health benefit on the host'' hill et al.

strategies that have been used include sub-lethal stresses nguyen et al.

use of protectants riaz and masud  drying technology broeckx et al.

encapsulating materials opara  huq et al.

and immobilisation techniques mitropoulou et al.

germination in the gut including the fate of ingested bacillus spores and the ratio of vegetative cells and spores in the different gut sections across different hosts the length of time that the bacillus persist in the gut after their withdrawal from the diet and the influence of git physiology and bacillus strain.while the life cycle of pathogenic bacillus in human git has been extensively researched hutchison et al.

narula et al.

the spores protect the bacterium by attaining a highly defensive state that is resistant to environmentalconditions such as extreme temperature radiation ph pressure and toxic chemical agents that would harm the vegetative form pedraza-reyes et al.

the unique and intrinsic composition of bacillus spores provides high tolerance to the acidic conditions in the stomach upon ingestion as described in table .the spore will germinate in the presence of germinants nutrients or non-nutrients swick et al.

no effect on sporeduc le et al.bile saltshighly sensitive 1 mmol-1 bacteriocidal on vcno effect on sporeshyronimuset al.

modest inhibition of germinationduc le et al.

intestinal conditionssuitable growth environment in the absence of intestinal microbiota exerting competitive pressuresuitable growth environment in the absence of intestinal microbiota exerting competitive pressureceuppens et al.

studies have shown that spores lacking dpa have signifi- cantly increased water and decreased heat and h2o2 resistance balassa et al.

it has been shown that the spores administered by the intra- gastric route to mice could not germinate and on the other hand ingested spores that did not germinate prior to reaching the large intestine remained metabolically dor- mant during the rest of the transit table  spinosa et al.

