However the maximum GOS contents were usually obtainedat low lactose conversions 80.When a high lactose conversion is reached most of the GOS formed before has been hydrolyzed as well which is the situation in the cases of b- galactosidases from A. oryzaeand B. circulansTherefore a unique kinetic of GOS formation just like the ones of Bgal1-3 and Maxilact LG 5000 is another key in the production of low- lactose milk highly enriched with GOS.Further study of Bgal1-3 will focus on solving its crystal structure which may enrich our knowledge of the structural basis of this uncommon property.Figure 2.

The low secretion efficiency of INU1A indicates that this signal peptide from the yeast K. marxious does not work well in the Bgal1-3 secretion process which is very different from the efficient secretion of human a-antitrypsin from S. cerevisiae directed by the same signal peptide.Signal peptide HFBI has a similar length and sequence features to those of apre which may explain their similar secretion efficiencies .The most efficient signal peptide for Bgal1-3 secretion was W1 a synthetic signal peptide based on proposed signal design rules.It contains a positively charged N-terminus of three R followed by a three-residue spacer from the AOX1 promoter AIP a hydrophobic core of 11 repeated L and a C-terminus comprising the preregion of a-factor SSALA.

This study successfully constructed a recombinant strain for the production of the b-galactosidase Bgal1-3 a promising catalyst in the preparation of low-lactose and GOS-enriched milk.ASSOCIATED CONTENTS Supporting InformationThe Supporting Information is available free of charge on the at DOI .Kinetics of GOS formation in No2 A and No3 milkB catalyzed by Bgal1-3 DNA alignment of the original sequence and the optimized sequence of bgal1-3 cell growth of recombinant strains with different signal peptides cell growth of recombinant strains containing different copy numbers of the bgal1-3 gene TLC analysis of GOS formation in No1 milk catalyzed by the b- galactosidase Bgal1-3 secreted from Pichia pastoris primers used in this study AUTHOR INFORMATIONCorresponding AuthorsE-mail X.B..E-mail  Tel.

With the remarkable advantages of very high cell density and secretion ability P. pastoris may be a suitable host for the expression of b- galactosidases.In our previous work a high GOS yield of 57.1 was obtained by the b-galactosidase Bgal1-3 showing that this enzyme has strong transglycosylation activity.Therefore its potential in the preparation of GOS-enriched milk was evaluated in this work.

2017 65 10757-10766pubs.acs.orgJAFCImproving the Secretion Yield of the b-Galactosidase Bgal1-3 in Pichia pastoris for Use as a Potential Catalyst in the Production of Prebiotic-Enriched MilkLichuang CaoGuanghui RenZongmin QinXin HuangWei KongZhijun Wang Weiqu LiangXiaogang Biand Yuhuan LiuSchool of Life Sciences Institute of Aquatic Economic Animals and Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory for Aquatic Economic Animals National Engineering Center for Marine Biotechnology of South China Sea Sun Yat-Sen University Guangzhou Guangdong 510275 P. R. ChinaDongguan Agricultural Research Center Dongguan Guangdong 523086 P. R. ChinaSSThe Third Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University Guangzhou Guangdong 510630 P. R. China INTRODUCTIONThe human-gut microbiome is a large complex ecosystemwhich contains trillions of microbial cells.

The results showed that the GOS compositions of the two products were similar with trisaccharides tetrasaccharides and pentasacchar- idesas as the main components C. These results showed the great potential of Bgal1-3 in producing GOS- enriched and low-lactose milk.Although half a century has passed since the observation ofoligosaccharide formation during lactose hydrolysisthere are only a few reports on the preparation of low-lactose milk highly enriched with GOS which are mentioned above.-Possibly the lactose concentration of milk is low about 4.5-5.0 wv so that the reaction is more prone to hydrolysis than transglycosylation.

The results showed that both the kinetics of GOS formation and the lactose conversion profiles were similar to those of Bgal1-3expressed in E. coli .In conclusion 7.2-9.5 gL GOS was formed in the milk treated with the b-galactosidase Bgal1-3 at a lactose conversion of 90-95 giving rise to a promising product in the dairy market.

Thus P. pastoris X33 was used as the host for the secretion of Bgal1-3 in this work.

To further improve the secretion yield of Bgal1-3 in P. pastoris plasmids containing two copies and three copies of the bgal1-3 gene were constructed in head-to-tail orientations .

When high lactose conversions were reached most of the GOS formed before had been hydrolyzed as well.For example the maximum GOS concentrations of about 7.6 and 4.5 gL were obtained at lactose conversions of 40-50 with b-galactosidases from Bacillus circulans and Aspergillus oryzae.

