the patient has not responded to conventional treatments and has a terminal or life-threatening medical condition 20.track 2stool could be obtained for fmt from stool banks that would be regulated in the same manner as human cell-tissue establishments with some additional oversight 21. this would include registering annually with the fda and complying with rules for donor screening and testing and good manufacturing practices 21. donor screening and testing would include a medical history and physical examination to exclude those with diseases linked to the gastrointestinal microbiota and tests for all relevant communicable diseases.

in response to dissatisfaction among providers and patients in july 2013 fda stated that it would not enforce ind requirements for fmt used to treat cdi unresponsive to therapy allowing physicians and stool banks to operate without an ind.most recently in march 2016 the fda published draft guidance 10 stating that it would require stool banks to submit an ind to obtain and distribute stool to physicians.

in evaluating alternatives we considered whether a framework would ensure the safety and effectiveness of the transferred material but also whether it would provide adequate information to patients about benefits and risks ensure access for patients who need the procedure encourage research and development of microbiota-based therapies and support public health objectives to reduce the burden of antibiotic resistance.

under the proposed fda guidance stool banks would be nonexistent or would have to operate under an ind.

fda would need to change its position and determine that microbiota derived from stool is a tissue not a drug or biological product 13. the framework could be implemented through new guidance or by issuing formal regulations 18 19 and no statutory changes would be required.

physicians performing fmt for cdi would be able to do so based on their scope of practice using clinical judgment and the relevant standard of care 20. an ind would be required for indications other than cdi unless the use meets the legal requirements for clinical innovation i.e.

the stool bank in turn would be required to submit safety data to the fda and safety and outcomes data to a national registry 22. unless operating under an ind stool banks would only be able to provide fecal material for physicians using it to treat cdi not responding to standard therapy.track 3this applies to modified stool-based products i.e.

the ind would not be enforced for physicians collecting and screening donor stool and performing the procedure or for entities such as hospital laboratories that collect and prepare fmt products solely under the direction of licensed health care providers 10 for use by the provider's patients.

this would allow for a continuing supply of stool for patient treatment outside of obtaining stool from a known donor or stool bank.by requiring stool banks to obtain an ind the guidance appears to call for more research in the form of blinded randomized clinical trials moving away from the current fda position that allows more widespread access to patients with cdi.

although data would be collected under the proposed ind requirement there are no requirements for such data collection under fda's current enforcement discretion policy.our proposed framework has a potential downside.

this assumes that patients would prefer an fmt to a more traditional fda-approved treatment.

cost and insurance coverage are likely to play a role in that decision.the proposed framework would be relatively easy to implement.

the scheme would serve as a useful starting point for regulation of other types of mt.supplementary materialrefer to web version on pubmed central for supplementary material.acknowledgmentsthis work was supported by the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases r21ai119633.

registries-studiesfmt-registryhoffmann et al.page 5proposed three-track regulatory schemetrack 1when performed by a physician with stool acquired from someone known to the physician or to the patient fmt would be regulated as the practice of medicine subject primarily to state regulation.

stool banks would be required to have their physician users report adverse events and data on outcomes to the stool bank.

