significant differ- ences among the means were determined using dun- can's multiple-range test at p  0.05. mdv as well as se incidence data were expressed as positivetotal chickens  and the percent recovery of se was com- pared using the chi-squared test of independence test- ing all possible combinations to determine the signifi- cance p  0.001 for these studies zar .resultsthis study addressed 3 major concerns a whether in ovo administration of floramaxqr -b11 mixed with md vaccine would negatively impact vaccine efficacy in white leghorn 15i5x71 chickens experiment 1 b the effect of in ovo administration on hatchability and microbiota composition experiment 2 and c the im- pact on salmonella infections and morphometric anal- ysis in broiler chickens experiment 3. experiment 1 consisted of 3 independent replicates to determine if there was any difference when birds were vaccinated in ovo with hvt only or with hvt  floramaxqr -b11 fol- lowed by challenge with vmdv or vvmdv.

interestingly chickens that received the probiotic showed a significant reduction in the in- cidence and total se cfu numbers recovered from cct when compared with saline control chickens table .the results of the effect of in ovo application of floramaxqr -b11 on morphometric analysis of the gas- trointestinal tract of hatching broiler chickens of ex- periment 3 are summarized in table .

therefore earlier administration of probiotics to embryos can have a profound impact on growth and overall health of the birds.in summary the results of the present study sug- gest in ovo administration of floramaxqr -b11 does not negatively affect hvt vaccine efficacy or hatchability of the chickens but improves bw and intestinal in- tegrity during the first 7 d of life while decreasing se intestinal load in broiler chickens.

r. bielke b. m. hargisand g. tellezdepartment of poultry science university of arkansas fayetteville 72701 usda agricultural research service avian disease and oncology laboratory east lansing mi 48823 pacific vet group-usa inc. 2135 creek view drive fayetteville ar 72704 ssdepartment of veterinary medicine national autonomous university of mexico mexico city 04510 and department of animal sciences the ohio state university columbus 44691abstract three experiments were conducted to evaluate the effect of in ovo administration of floramaxqr -b11 fm on marek's disease md her- pesvirus of turkeys hvt vaccine protective effi- cacy hatchability microbiota composition morphome- tric analysis and salmonella enteritidis se infection in chickens.

further increase in bw was associated with higher villi surface area in the ileum in chickens that received the probiotic as well as a significant reduction in the se incidence in experiment 3. these results suggest that in ovo admin- istration of fm does not negatively impact the ability of hvt to protect against md or hatchability of chick- ens but improves bw during the first 7 d of life and decreases se recovery in chickens.key words in ovo marek's disease vaccine probiotic salmonella enteritidis hatchability2017 poultry science 962074-2082 introductionbacterial communities living and colonizing in the gastrointestinal tract of animals outnumber total so- matic cells of metazoans by an estimated 10-fold neish .

.under commercial conditions millions of chickens and turkeys hatch in a hostile environment and are exposed for several h to heat stress and potential2074effects of in ovo administration of floramaxqr -b112075pathogenic bacteria in the hatcheries.

in day-old chickens and turkeys no or very few infiltrating lymphocytes are seen in the primary bronchi region fagerland and arp  smialek et al.

during the following wk the number of igg iga or igm producing cells continues to increase however the bronchial-associated lymphoid tissue balt is not mature until chickens are 6 to 8 wk old bienenstock  bienenstock and mcdermott  de geus .

howarth and wang .floramaxqr -b11 is a defined lactic acid bacte- ria lab probiotic culture that has demonstrated an accelerated development of normal microflora in chickens and turkeys.

the objectives of experiment 1 were to eval- uate the effect of this probiotic on hvt marek's vac- cine virus stability and incidence of disease in white leghorn 15i5x71 chickens in 3 independent trials.

the aims of experiment 2 were to evaluate the effect of in ovo application of this probiotic on hatchability and microbial composition in the gastrointestinal tract of hatching broiler chickens in 3 independent trials.

maternal-antibody-negative white leghorn 15i5x71 chickens were used in these ex- periments bacon et al.

in trials 1 and 2 chickens were challenged with the mdv strain 583 a virulent v strain.

in trial 3 chickens were challenged with mdv strains md5 or 612 both very virulent vv.

chickens were considered md positive if periph- eral nerve enlargements tumors or both were present at necropsy.

