several mutations in the nod2 gene were detected so that this intra- cellular receptor for bacterial muramyl-dipeptide was the first susceptibility gene in ileal cd and about 30 of patients who suffer from ileal cd carry this mutation .however cd is related to many other genetic defects that also lead to impaired paneth cell function  and to paneth cell necroptosis .

nuclear b-catenin binds to the transcription factors t-cell factor 4 tcf-4 or tcf7l2 and lymphoid enhancer factor and enables target gene transcription such as the antibacterial defensin genes alpha 5 and 6 defa5 and defa6 the genes for hd5 and hd6  .previously our group could show that in ileal cd there is a link between the reduced expression of paneth cell a-defensinshd5 and hd6 and the wnt transcription factor tcf-4 tcf7l2.

but the potential mecha- nisms of reduced wnt delivery from monocytes still remain unknown.conclusionhere in this review we emphasized the important role of ileal defensins of the paneth cell in host defense mechanisms of the small intestine.

the canonical wnt pathway is activated when wnt ligands released from epithelial cells paneth cells or mesenchymal cells bind to the cell surface receptor frizzled .

consequently a compromised antibacterial defensedue to reduced a-defensin expression or secretion explains many features of ileal cd even though the mechanisms are complex and vary in term of pathways and origin.wnt signaling in ileal cdthe wnt signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in the gut mucosal homeostasis and therefore in the intestinal epithelium.

further examples are the autophagy gene autophagy-related16-like1atg16l1thatplaysanimportantrole in cd pathogenesis by affecting paneth cell granule exocytosis in patients with an ileal phenotype  or the transcription factor x-box binding protein 1 xbp1 of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response activated during an inflammation.

the kcnn4 encoded protein plays a pivotal role in paneth cell secretion and showed reduced expression levels in nod2-mutated ileal cd patients .

furthermore in the mucosa of ileal cd patients adherent bacteria are present  probably caused by compromised antimicrobials paneth cell function.

this is a direct consequence of the various paneth cell defects leading to a reduced a-defensin expression in ileal cd.

reduced paneth cell alpha-defensins in ileal crohn's disease.

am j gastroenterol 2010 105 2209-17. doiwehkamp j wang g kubler i. the paneth cell a-defensin deficiency of ileal crohn's disease is linked to wnttcf-4.

in summary different lines of investigations led by us but also now numerous other groups support and reconfirm the proposed classifica- tion of this disease entity as paneth's disease.keywords paneth cell crohn's disease defensins wnt signaling monocytesintroductionin approximately 70 of crohn's disease cd patients the small intestine is affected the remainder have colonic disease only .

wnt is an important element keeping intestinal epithelial stem cells in a proliferating status enabling stem cell maintenance  and provoking the differentiation and maturation process of paneth cells thereby regulating the expression of the alpha-defensins hd5 and hd6 .

nat cell biol 2005 7381-6. doifarin hf van es jh clevers h. redundant sources of wnt regulate intestinal stem cells and promote formation of paneth cells.

tcf-1-mediated wnt signaling regulates paneth cell innate immune defense effectors hd-5 and -6 implications for crohn's disease.

