cc sbo and rc represent caecal microbiota control soya bean oligosaccharide and rectal microbiota control respectivelythe rate of l-try degradation and fermentation parameters were significantly different between bacterial sources p  .05. indole concentrations rate of l-try degradation and ph values of the culture medium fermented by caecal microbiota were significantly higher than those by rectal microbiota of broilers p  .05. in con- trast the concentrations of skatole and acetate were significantly higher in the rectal microbiota fermentation broth mfb than in the caecal mfb p  .05. skatole and indole concentrations the rate of l-try degradation and ph values were significantly lower in inulin and sbo groups than those in control groups.

the skatole con- centrations were significant lower in the inulin and sbo group than control group in retal microbiota groups p  .05 but no difference in caecal microbiota groups.table 2 in vitro effects of inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide on l-tryptophan l-try metabolism and fermentation parameters by caecal and rectal microbiota of broilersbacterial source x oligosaccharidepropionate and butyrate were undetectable in vitro fermentation samples.cc sbo and rc represent caecal microbiota control soya bean oligosaccharide and rectal microbiota control respectively.means in a column within treatment without a common superscript letter a-e or x-y differ p  .05.  microbial community  pcrdgge profile analysischanges in the dgge profile were clearly observed between fermen- tative samples figure 2. most of predominant dgge bands e.g.

fermentation by caecal microbiotaa fermentation by rectal microbiota b. numbers 1-1 1-2 1-3 4-1 4-2 4-3 2-1 2-2 2-3 5-1 5-2 5-3 and 3-1 3-2 3-3 6-1 6-2 6-3 represent fermentation of l-tryptophan l-try without and with inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide sbo respectivelytable 3 sequencing results of 16s rdna cloneabands a1 a4 a6 a11 a15 a18 a19 a20 a25 a27 a28 were on the gel of caecal microbiota fermentation bands b6 b9 b12 b16 b20 b23 b30 were on the gel of rectal microbiota fermentation.bsbo represents soya bean oligosaccharide.higher than that in the rectal mfb p  .05 table 4. the population of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria in the inulin groups and total bacteria in both oligosaccharide groups was significantly higher than that in the control p  .05. there was a significant interaction between the bacterial source and oligosaccharide p  .05. the largest lactobacilli population 9.78 log10copies ml appeared in the cc  inulin group followed by that in the cc  sbo group 9.03 and cc group 8.76 p  .05. the smallest bifidobacteria population 8.16 was recorded in the rc group which was significantly lower than that in the other groups p  .05. whereas the highest bifidobacteria population was observed in cc  inulin group which did not differ from that in the cc  sbo and the rc  inulin group p  .05. the largest population of total bacteria was in the cc  inulin group which was significantly larger than that in the rc group p  .05. however there were no dif- ferences among treatment means p  .05 for e. coli population in the fermentation samples.4  discussion  in vitro effects of inulin and soya bean oligosaccharides on l-try metabolism by intestinal microbiota of broilersin the current study gp was significantly enhanced by the addition of inulin or sbo.

oligosaccharides have been shown to regulate the gut microbiota composition by promoting the growth ofbacterial source x oligosaccharidetable 4 in vitro effects of inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide on the intestinal microbial populations in broilerscc sbo and rc represent caecal microbiota control soya bean oligosaccharide and rectal microbiota control respectively.means in a column within treatment without a common superscript letter a-d or x-y differ p  .05.beneficial microbiota such as bifidobacteria and lactobacillus and in- hibiting the growth of e. coli and clostridium abdelqader et al.

the results showed that concentrations of skatole and acetic acid were signifi- cantly lower in caecal microbiota fermentation broth mfb than those in rectal mfb p  .05. addition of inulin or sbo significantly decreased the concentrations of indole and skatole and rate of l-try degradation p  .05. inulin groups had lower indole than sbo groups p  .05. pcr-dgge analysis revealed that addition of inulin or sbo de- creased the microbiota richness p  .05 but no significant differences in shannon index p  .05. four distinct bands were detected in inulin and sbo groups which were related to two of bacteroides one of firmicutes and bifidobacteria.

skatole and fermentation parametersthe effects of inulin and sbo on l-try metabolism and fermenta- tion parameters in vitro by caecal and rectal microbiota of broil- ers are shown in table 2. the production of skatole and indole12010080604020003691215182124incubation time hrccccinulinccsborcrcinulinrcsbofigure 1 in vitro cumulative gas production gp curves of inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide sbo using intestinal microbiotaof broilers as inoculum.

treatments were as follows caecal microbiota control cc cc  inulin cc  sbo rectal microbiota control rc rc  inu- lin and rc  sbo.

gp by cae- cal microbiota was significantly higher than that by rectal microbiota which was both after 24 hr of incubation in broilers p  .05. soya bean oligosaccharide groups had a higher cumulative gp than inu- lin p  .05 and the cc  sbo group had the highest gp 98.18 ml.

lanes 1-1 1-2 1-32-1 2-2 2-3 and 3-1 3-2 3-3 represent fermentation of l-tryptophanl-try without and with inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide sbo by caecal microbiota respectively a lanes 4-14-2 4-3 5-1 5-2 5-3 and 6-1 6-2 6-3represent fermentation of l-try without and with inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide by rectal microbiota respectively b. the numbers next to dgge bands i.e.

cc sbo and rc represent caecal microbiota control soya bean oligosaccharide and rectal microbiota control respectively.

received 27 june 2017  accepted 19 september 2017doi 10.1111jpn.12830original ar ticle in vitro effects of inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide on skatole production and the intestinal microbiota in broilersh.

q. yang college of animal science and veterinary medicine shenyang agricultural university shenyang china.email funding informationnational natural science foundation of china grantaward number 31372328summarythe experiment was conducted to investigate the in vitro effects of inulin and soya bean oligosaccharide sbo on the metabolism of l- tryptophan l-t ry to skatole pro- duction and the intestinal microbiota in broilers.

uncultured b. uniformis t and e. aero- genes may be responsible for degradation of l-try to skatole.keywords in vitro fermentation intestinal microbiota of broiler inulin l-tryptophan skatole soya bean oligosaccharide1  introduction odour emission from chicken excreta is a serious problem in intensive chicken production and consequently strategies to mitigate emissions are urgently needed yang yin liu  liu 2016. it is clear that the odour compounds are produced mainly by the microbial degradation of several substrates in the large intestine of animals deng et al.

2016. nonetheless the information is scanty regarding the in vitro effects of inulin and sbo on skatole by intestinal microbiota of broilers.

in order to further analyse the effects of inulin and sbo on l-try metabolism to skatole and possible microbial mechanism we used an in vitro system by the microbiota from caecum and rectum of broilers in this study.2  materials and methods  experimental materials birds and designinulin and sbo were extracted from jerusalem artichoke and soya bean molasses by the methods of hu jin and wang 2007 and zhang zhang and wang 2009 respectively.

