y-axis denotes fold changes compared to leto group.cholesterol concentration significantly increased in the metformin group p  0.028 and metsb group p  0.006. there was no difference between the metformin group and metsb group statistically.the total bile acid concentration in liver tissue significantly decreased in both the metfor- min and metsb groups p  0.033 and p  0.022 respectively although there was no statistical difference between groups p  0.510. fecal total bile acid concentration tended to increase in contrast to liver tissue.

total bile acid increased in the metformin group p  0.021 and metsb p  0.023 but there was no significant difference between these groups p  0.105.shift of intestinal microbiota contributes to bile acid excretionthe taxanomical summary of each group by phylum and family level are in .the most abundant phylum was bacteroidetes 69.99 - 4.87 followed by firmicutes28.17 - 4.99. there were no significant differences between groups.

for instance expression cyp7a1 was higher in both metformin and metsb groups compared to oletf group but the difference was more pronounced in metsb group 1.73-fold higher than metformin group.

the metsb group showed 0.49 times down-regulated expression of hmgcoa compared to the leto group while the oletf and metformin groups were up-regulated compared to the leto group.

our study showed increased hepatic cyp7a1 in the metsb group while the metformin group rather showed decreased expression of cyp7a1 compared to the control group.

intestinal bacteria related to bile acid biosynthesis were increased in metsb group compared to metformin group although there was no statistical difference.relative abundance of intestinal microbial community after 12 weeks of drug intervention shown at the phylum level and family level.

fxr regulates hepatic bile acid content by repressing bile acid uptake and de novo synthesis while increasing bile acid secretion from the hepatocytes .

for group comparison we used cdna from four randomly selected rats from each group pooled together.

statistical calculations were performed using spss spss inc.released 2007. spss for windows version 16.0. chicago spss inc..resultsimpact of co-administration of metformin and sb on serum total cholesterol glucose and insulin tolerances and other clinical parametersthe level of serum total cholesterol in rats exposed to metformin and sb combination metsb group but not metformin alone was significantly lower compared to the oletf group  .

not surprisingly fasting glucose significantly decreased in both metformin group and metsb group.

combination treatment of metformin and sb increased hepatic cyp7a1 and ldlr expression while the metformin group maintained a level similar to the placebo group.

expression of cyp7a1 increased 1.1 times compared to the leto group while oletf and metformin group changed 0.48- and 0.25-fold respectively.

ldlr of metsb group was 1.15 times higher than the leto group.

increase of hepatic fxr nr1h4 expression was 3.46 times as much in the metsb group compared to the metformin group 2.25-fold change compared to the leto group.principal component analysis pca analyses of 84 gene sets of related to insulin resistance and fatty liver.

although there was no statistical difference between groups the relative composition of lactobacillus and bacteroides in metsb group was higher than metformin group while clostridium and enterobacter were few.

