fp  0.05 vs dss-treated nlrp3-- mice group.nlrp3 inflammasome inhibition may be mainly responsible for the anti- inflammatory effect of ter against dss-induced colitisthe dss-induced mice colitis model was used to further elucidate the key role of nlrp3 inflammasome in ter protective effectsby comparing wt mice and nlrp3-- mice.

in contrast mice deficient for nlrp3 were less sensitive to dss-induced acute colitis and ter treatment exerted little protective effect on dss- induced intestinal inflammation in nlrp3-- mice.

we found that oral administration of dss in nlrp3-- mice induced a less severe colitis than wt mice and produced lower levels of mpo and il-1b in colonic tissues which suggested the important roleof nlrp3 inflammasome in dss-induced colitis.

theseresults may suggest that nlrp3 inflammasome play an importantrole or at least play a partial role in ter-mediated colitis alleviation.we further compared the activity of nlrp3 inflammasome in colon samples of wt and nlrp3-- mice by western blotting.

however we found that nlrp3-- mice were significantlyprotected from dss-induced colitis showing a less severity of symptoms including reduced dai scores and colon shortening compared with wt mice .

mpo activity and il-1b level in colon of nlrp3-- mice also showed a significant inhibitoryeffect compared with those in the wt mice in response to dss.

however high levels of caspase-1 asc and il-1b were observed in the colon of wt mice receiving dss but not in thoseof nlrp3-- mice.

furthermore dss-increased caspase-1 asc and il-1b levels in the colon were significantly decreased by ter treatment in wt mice but did not in nlrp3-- mice.

our find- ings indicated that the nlrp3 inflammasome may play a critical role on dss-induced colitis and its inhibition contributes to the anti-inflammatory effect of ter.ter decreases plasmatic lps concentrations and optimizes the number of e. coli and lactobacillus in mice fecesto analyze whether ter could re-balance the composition of the commensal microbiota representative bacteria in the feces of ter-treated mice were investigated by qrt-pcr.

as shown in  there is an undetectable level of nlrp3 protein in colon tissues of nlrp3-- mice.

these data suggested that ter might protect against dss-induced colitis by suppressing nlrp3 inflammasome activation.to further verify the conclusion from our in vivo and in vitro study we made more exploration in nlrp3-- mice.

meanwhileter did not significantly protect the development of dss- induced colitis in nlrp3-- mice suggesting that nlrp3 inflammasome may be involved in the preventive effect of ter on dss-induced colitis.

we compared the activity of nlrp3 inflammasome in colon samples of wt and nlrp3-- mice as well.

all experimen- tal protocols were guided in accordance with the approval of the institutional animal care and use committee of our universityunder the approved protocol number scxxk ji-2016-0003.establishment of dss-induced mice colitis model and treatmentacute colitis was induced by feeding mice with 2.5 wv dss which was dissolved in drinking water continuously for 7 days.

to assess chemoprevention effect of ter on dss-induced acute colitis in c57bl6 mice the mice were treated with indicated dose of ter 14 days before dss treatment once per day.

