2004lactobacillus group-r50-caccgctacacatggag-30results and discussioncoccidial symptoms and growth performancemean body weight and mean daily weight gain dg after coccidial infection were similar between groups table 2. feed conversion ratio fcr was similar in the control and probiotic administration groups between days 28 to 36 but between days 36 and 49 it seemed improved in the probiotic administration group 2.04 compared with the control group 2.63. lesion scores of the small intestine and cecum at day 36 were not affected by treatment fig.

the asterisks indicate signifi- cant differences p  0.05 between the groups while the dagger indicates a tendency toward a difference p  0.1 between the groups by t-test analyses.administration may contribute to reduce or even pre- vent coccidiosis in broilers.pathological study of the intestinevillous height villous heightcrypt depth vc ratio of jejunum and ileum and crypt depth of cecum are shown at figure 4. villous height of jejunum at day36 tended to be higher p  0.08 in the probiotic administration group compared with the control group and villous height in the ileum was signifi- cantly higher in the probiotic administration group than in the control group fig.

the asterisks indicate significant differences p  0.05 between the groups while the dagger indicates a tendency toward a differencep  0.1 between the groups by t-test or mann-whitney u-test analyses.dietary ba administration because lesion score was improved and oocyst numbers of e. tenella were reduced in the cecum figs 1 2. conversely ba administration did not produce a significant improve- ment in growth as measured by daily weight gain but fcr seemed to improve between days 36 and 49 in chicks that received the probiotic table 2. how- ever the statistical analyses were not obtained about the fcr parameters further studies associated with growth performance are needed.microbiological study of the intestinal digestathe numbers of lactobacillus groups in ileal and cecal digesta were similar between groups at day 36fig.

at day 36 the numbers of e. coli in ileal digesta were lower in the probiotic administration group than in the control group and they also tended to be lower p  0.056 in the cecal digesta of the pro- biotic administration group compared with the control group fig.

the present study suggests that ba administration suppressed c. perfrin- gens colonization in the intestine in vivo which led tosequencing in the cecal digesta is shown in figure 3. dietary probiotic administration clearly modulated the composition of cecal microbiota in chicks at day36.

open squares control group close circles bacillus amyloliquefa- ciens strain toa5001 ba probiotic group.some previous studies reported that probiotic strains of bacillus produce an antimicrobial factor and this factor inhibits the colonization of gram-posi- tive pathogens such as bacillus cereus campylobacter coli campylobacter jejuni clostridium difficile c. perfrin- gens listeria monocytogenes micrococcus luteus staphylo- coccus aureus and streptococcus pneumoniae in vitro teo  tan 2005 khochamit et al.

1984. it is well known that coccidia- induced mucogenesis promotes secondary coloniza- tion by c. perfringens hafez 2008. the use of ba as a probiotic may thus reduce the severity of coccidial infection through inhibiting the associated c. perfrin- gens colonization of the intestine.in this study we evaluated the effect of dietary administration of ba on c. perfringens colonization in the gut of coccidia-infected chicks.

they were equally divided according to body weight n  18group into two groups namely non-treated control group c and probiotic administration p group.

1b while lesion score of the cecum was significantly lower in the probiotic administration group than in the control group fig.

2015. in this study the immune status was not evaluated but immunomodulation may have occurred as a result oftable 2 body weight daily weight gain and feed conversion ratioitemage daysncppooled set test p-value221100cpcp342321100cpcpfigure 1 intestinal lesion scores at day 36 and day 49 in broilers with or without probiotic administration.

a lesion score of small intestine at day 36. b lesion score of small intestine at day 49. c lesion score of cecum at day 36. d lesion score of cecum at day 49. c control group p probiotic administration group.

at day 49 the numbers of lactobacillus groups were higher in the probiotic administration group than in the control group in the ileal digesta but in the cecal digesta there was no difference between groups fig.

the detection rate of c. perfringens was similar between groups in the ileal and cecal digesta at day 36 whereas it was lower in the probiotic administration group com- pared with the control group in both ileal and cecal digesta at day 49 fig.

4a whereas at day 49 it tended to be higher p  0.053 in the probiotic administration group compared with the control group fig.

2007. for example in a previous study conducted in our laboratory a diet- ary probiotic mixture containing bacillus mesentericus clostridium butyricum and streptococcus faecalis adminis- tration was effective in preventing coccidial infection in broilers hayakawa et al.

