pneumonia 2017 93doi 10.1186s41479-017-0027-0pneumoniaincreased risk of pneumonia in residents living near poultry farms does the upper respiratory tract microbiota play a rolelidwien a. m. smit1 gert jan boender2 wouter a. a. de steenhuijsen piters3 thomas j. hagenaars2elisabeth g. w. huijskens45 john w. a. rossen56 marion koopmans7 gonnie nodelijk28 elisabeth a. m. sanders39 joris yzermans10 debby bogaert3 and dick heederik1backgroundcommunity-acquired pneumonia cap is among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in adults worldwide and the burden is markedly higher among the oldest adults -environmental risk factors such as active and passive smoking household air pollution due to biomass fuel use and outdoor air pollution have correspondence 1institute for risk assessment sciences iras division environmental epidemiology utrecht university po box 80178 3508 td utrecht the netherlandsfull list of author information is available at the end of the articlebeen shown to increase the susceptibility to lower re- spiratory tract infections including cap -in a rural population in the south of the netherlands we previously studied environmental risk factors of cap using electronic gp medical records of 70142 adult pa- tients seen during 2009 in this study we observed an increased risk of cap in adults living at a distance of 1 km or less from a poultry farm although poultry farms can be a source of zoonotic pathogens such as avian influenza or chlamydia psittaci a study of zoo- notic infections in hospitalized cap patients in a nearbyc the authors.

no significant differences were ob- served between the parameter values estimated for these partial datasets implying that both subpopulations show similar excess risks at close proximity from poultry farms see additional file oropharyngeal microbiota analysisthe oropharyngeal microbiota composition of 100 adult hospitalized cap patients living 1 km and 26 patients living 1 km to one or more poultry farms was studied to explore the hypothesis that the association between cap and living near poultry farms is mediated through a direct effect on microbial community composition in- cluding pathogen colonization within the respiratory tract fig.

table shows characteristics of the 26 cap patients who lived within 1 km of one or more poultry farms and 100 patients who lived at 1 km.

pneumoniae in particular.we performed a sensitivity analysis in which we com- pared the microbiota profiles of 98 cap patients living1.15 km and 28 patients living 1.15 km to one or more poultry farms based on the spatial kernel analysis results.

in patients who--compared to the primaryanalysis--were now considered exposed living be- tween 1.0 and 1.15 km from a poultry farm the relative abundance of s. pneumoniae was below the 10th per- centile which attenuated the difference in the micro- biota composition between the two groups overall microbiota comparison permanova p  0.23 mean relative abundance of s. pneumoniae mann-whitney u- test p  0.14 over-representation of the s. pneumoniae cluster near poultry farms fisher's exact p  0.095.discussionin this study we found that living near poultry farms is associated with an 11 increase in risk of cap for each poultry farm within a distance of 1.15 km.

the excess cap risk is approximately equal to 0.001 per person year per poultry farm within 1.15 km which compares to a total background risk of 0.009 per person year 0.0010.009  11 increase in risk.

although there is some evidence that trans- mission of farm-related bacteria may take place throughair--for example in pig and veal calf farmers and their family members nasal colonization by livestock- associated methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus la-mrsa occurs frequently --we did not find evi- dence of zoonotic infections explaining the increased risk of cap around poultry farms around 40 of the cap patients also had copd.

in total 993 patients 702 70142 adults and 22122406 children were diagnosed with cap in 2009. two alternative models were used a distance-independent model with one estimable param- eter namely a constant per-individual probability of gp- reported pneumonia and a model with a distance- dependent risk component three additional estimable parameters added to a constant background risk.

the abundance of s. pneumoniae in relation to living in the vicinity of poultrylivestock farms needs to be reassessed in future studies.kernel analysis confirmed the excess risk of cap in the vicinity of poultry farms as identified earlier using regression analysis in addition it indicated that the excess risk has a sharp bound at around 1.15 km.

it has been demonstrated that copd patients living near livestock farms are more likely to use inhaled corticoste- roids and report respiratory symptoms than patients liv- ing further away from farms suggesting an increased risk of exacerbations  dickson et al.

fish- er's exact tests were exploited to compare the proportion of patients living 1 km from a poultry farm over all pa- tients in the cluster of interest versus that proportion in the other clusters.resultsspatial kernel analysisthe data was analyzed using spatial kernel models to characterize the association between living in the vicinity of poultry farms and cap.

permanova p  0.075. this overall difference in bac- terial community composition was related to a higher abundance of s. pneumoniae mean relative abundance 34.9 versus 22.5 mann-whitney u-test p  0.058 q 0.541 and a lower abundance of lactobacillus 1.4table 1 characteristics of 126 cap patients by the presence of a poultry farm within 1 km of the home addressachi-square test fisher's exact test or t-test.

theadvantage of the kernel analysis compared to earlier ana- lyses is that instead of regressing cap occurrence to distance-to-the-nearest-farm it models the distance- dependent per-farm contribution to the risk of cap.

the presence of animal farms around the home address was assessed using a geographic information system arcgis 9.3.1. esri redlands california united states as described earlier statistical analysisstatistical analyses of oropharyngeal microbiota data were performed in r version 3.2.2. the study visualized the association between the vicinity of poultry farms and the overall bacterial community composition by non- metric multidimensional scaling nmds of the bray- curtis dissimilarity metric and assessed its statistical sig- nificance by permutation analysis of variance differentially abundant bacterial community members that might be related to changes in the overall micro- biota composition were detected by mann-whitney u- tests comparing patients living 1 km versus 1 km from poultry farms.

buse of antibiotics 2 weeks before admissioncopd chronic obstructive pulmonary disease na not available icsimmunocompromized status psi pneumonia severity indexversus 3.8 p  0.049 q  0.541 in patients living at1 km compared to 1 km from a poultry farm.these findings were verified using an unsupervised clustering approach showing a total of seven microbiota clusters in our study cohort six of which were charac- terized by either rothia s. pneumoniae gemellales neisseria actinomyces or lactobacillus predominance.

