stool iga content was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.results we found that iga levels were significantly higher in stool samples from asd patients than from healthy children p  0.05 student's t test.conclusions this finding may suggest the presence of gut immune abnormalities in asd patients.

in the present study we found that iga levels were significantly higher in stool samples from asd patients than from healthy children we believe our finding may suggest the presence of gut immune abnormalities in asd patients.

asd patients were recruited from the departments of psychology and speech therapy at shenzhen children's hospital from july to december 2015. inclusion criteria were boys or girls younger than 14 years of age having a diagnosis of asd according to the criteria of the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders 5th edition and classified as requiring very substantial support.

a recent study showed that fmt treatment of patients of asd affected with intestinal dysfunction can not only improve gi dysfunction but also improve the core symptoms of asd .

in the present study we found that iga levels were significantly higher in the stools of asd patients than in those of healthy children which may reflect increased levels of iga-related microbes in these patients.

research support american recovery and reinvestment act research support n. i. h. extramural research support non-u.s. gov't.

however alleviating gastrointestinal gi problems which are prevalent in asd patients can significantly improve the core symptoms of autism.

previous studies have associated gi disorders in asd patients with abnormal gut microbiota although few disease- related microorganisms have been identified.

considering that the gut microbiome affects the intestinal immune system and the patient's behavior and that immunoglobulin a iga is the main antibody secreted by intestinal immune cells we investigated stool iga content as a means of understanding the gut immune status of asd patients.

the iga level in gut can be used as factor to know the gene x environment interactions and diagnose of asds.methods we enrolled 43 asd patients and 31 gender- and age-matched healthy children.

gastrointestinal gi disturbances are commonly reported by asd patients  and problems such as abdominal pain diarrhea and constipation can aggravate the core symptoms  .

a recent study showed that fecal microbiota transfer improved both the gi symptoms and core symptoms of asd patients .

to date there have been no studies of intestinal iga levels in asd patients.

in the present study we used enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay elisa to measure iga levels in the stools of 43 children with asds and 31 healthy children to determine whether iga could be a potential biomarker for asds.materials and methodsstudy subjectswe enrolled 43 asd patients and 31 typically developing td children for this study.

absorbance at 450 nm od 450 nm was measured on a microplate reader.statistical analysisiga levels in stool samples from asd patients and td children were compared using student's t test.

