as in previous studies infected mice had significant weight loss and shedding of oocysts in stool supplementary figure 1.lcn2 is significantly upregulated by cryptosporidiosiswe have previously shown that protein deficiency alone is capa- ble of disrupting intestinal epithelial tight junctions 18 and elevating fecal biomarkers of inflammation 23. as shown in figure 1 c. parvum infection with protein deficiency further increases myeloperoxidase and significantly increased lcn2 compared with protein deficiency alone.urinary metabolic alterations induced by c. parvum infectionthe urinary metabolic profiles of control and infected mice were compared at 6 7 and 13 days postinfection using an orthog- onal partial least squares-discriminant analysis opls-da approach to assess the biochemical response to c. parvum exposure.

n  46 at day 6 n  56 at day 7 and n  46 at day 13 post infection uninfectedinfected.svs were found to be differentially abundant between infected and uninfected groups at any time point and these 26 svsstratified infected and uninfected groups independent of time supplementary figure 2. at all time points infection slightly reduced a-diversity consistent across a variety of a-diversity metrics figure 3 supplementary figure 2. considering all svs that met filtering criteria see methods b-diversity calcu- lations and nonmetric multidimensional scaling led to delinea- tion of infected and uninfected samples figure 4.microbial-metabolic interactions in response to malnutrition unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis hca of the metabolites identified to contribute to the c. parvum infection at days 6 7 and 13 is shown in figure 5 upper-right quadrant.8070uninfected infected60506713days post-infectionfigure 3. alpha diversity of infected and uninfected fecal microbiota.

the inconsistencies in specific taxonomic shifts across these experiments imply that c. parvum infection does not induce a specific alteration of the microbiota or that the effect cannot be identified using taxonomic analyses.a previous murine study found that cryptosporidiosis induced by c. parvum was enhanced in germ-free immuno- deficient mice relative to immunodeficient mice harboring the altered schaedler flora a model microbiota composed of 8 bacterial species 32. this finding indicates that c. parvum colonization is affected by interactions between the intestinal microbiota and the parasite or host even with a reduced micro- biota.

j proteome res 2008 73948-56.wang y utzinger j saric j et al.

stool supernatant was assayed for total protein bca lcn2 rd systems and mpomaintained on a protein-deficient diet infected with c. parvum 15 17 18 24. a protein-malnourished state was necessary for the infection to establish as c. parvum infections could not be sustained in nourished mice.

science 2013 339548-54.mayneris-perxachs j bolick dt leng j et al.

int j parasitol 2010 40695-703.saric j li jv wang y et al.

j proteome res 2009 85442-50.li jv wang y saric j et al.

consistent with our observations the study of murine c. parvum infection by ras et al.

c. parvum growth is also inhibited to a greater extent in mature mice compared to freshly weaned mice a finding originally thought to be due to increasing diversity of the gut microbiota with age 33. the protein-deficient model in our study results in lower alpha diversity than age-matched mice on other diets reinforcing that the result shown in harp et al.

other notable changes in the urinary metabolic profiles included a decrease in sucrose ace- tate and alanine at 6 andor 7 days postinfection which was not observed after 13 days of infection.effects of protein deficiency and cryptosporidium on gut resident microbiotawe have recently shown that protein deficiency retards theaging-induced diversification of the fecal microbiome relative to a defined nourished diet 23. although cryptosporidiosis0.30.20.10.0-0.1-0.2nmds of bray-curtis dissimilarity-0.4-0.20.0nmds10.2uninfected infecteddays post infection 6713caused major changes in urinary metabolites there was sur- prisingly little effect of c. parvum infection on the bacterial composition of the feces.

unlike nourished equivalents protein-malnourished mice were unable to rapidly clear cryptosporidium and continue to have detectable organisms in the stool for more than 7 days 17 18.a previous study found strong effects of c. parvum on the murine microbiota although the authors acknowledge that small treatment group size across multiple experiments may have amplified differences between uninfected and infected groups 19. studies in children and rodents have indicated that undernutrition results in both compositional and func- tional modulations in the resident gut microbiota 19. in a study examining the effect of various diets on the mouse microbiota and metabolome we observed that mice fed a low-protein diet retained a fecal microbiota more similar in composition to newly weaned mice than those on any other diet 20-22. in the current study we examined the effects of cryptosporidiosis on the fecal microbiome and urinary meta- bolic phenotypes of mice on the same protein-deficient diets.

protein deficient dpd vs dpd  crypto p  .029. abbreviations crypto c. parvum lcn2 lipocalin-2.metabolitic alterations of cryptosporidium independent of microbiota changes  jid 2017216 1 july  65increased compared to the uninfected controls figure 2. at 13 days of infection opls-da model q2y  0.71 p  .001 dma and tmao excretion remained higher in the infected mice compared with the control mice but the excretion of the other choline-related metabolites was comparable.

c. parvum-infected samples at 6 days appear on the left whereas all 13-day postinfected sam- ples are located on the right with some 7-day infected samples clustering with either 6- or 13-day infected samples.

j proteome res 2009 83899-911.wang y xiao sh xue j singer bh utzinger j holmes e. systems metabolic effects of a necator americanus infection in syrian hamster.

