In addition the expression of HDAC1-4 genes in the cortex were measured to evaluate whether B-GOSs via acetate affects epigenetic processes.Finally plasma and brain acetate cortical GluN subunit levels and ACC and HDAC1-4 mRNAs were evaluated in glyceryl triacetate fed rats to further examine the potential involvement of acetate in NMDAR modulation.Experimental proceduresAnimalsAdult male Sprague Dawley rats 250-300 g were housed 3rats cage in standard laboratory conditions 2171 1C lights on 0700- 1900 h with free access to water and standard laboratory chow.

All rats were humanely culled 24 h after behavioural testing.Blood and tissue collectionOn completion of all experiments rats were culled and the trunk blood collected in sterile 2 ml heparin-coated Eppendorf tubes.

Faecal pellets were also collected from all rats that had been subjected to the ASST and frozen at -80 1C prior to DNA extraction.Western blottingOne hemisphere of the frontal cortex from each group of rats was homogenised in RIPA buffer Sigma-Aldrich UK and run on western blots as previously described .

C. High concentrations of HA-966 applied to neurons at similar current intensities used for inhibition of NMDA responses does not affect neuronal activity in the cortex compared to controls -3 nA n  17.Effect of B-GOS on ASST performance body weights fluid intake and faecal Bifidobacterium Spp.The administration of B-GOSs improved IDED set shifting in the ASST paradigm whereas rats provided with BFS per- formed worse than rats provided with normal drinking water A.

Post hoc analy- sis with Bonferroni correction revealed that B-GOSs -fed rats required fewer trials to reach criterion in the ED discrimina- tion task compared to controls p 0.003 whereas the BFS supplemented rats required significantly more trials to reach criteria in the ED phase compared to both control p 0.048403020100125WaterBFSB-GOSSDCDR1IDR2EDR3Discrimination Phaseand B-GOSs po0.001 animals.

Increased cortical neuronal responses to NMDA and improved attentional set-shifting performance in rats following prebioticB-GOSs ingestionBenjamin Gronier Helene M. Savignac Mathieu Di Miceli Sherif M. Idriss George Tzortzis Daniel AnthonyPhilip W.J.

The current investigation examined the functional correlates of these changes in B-GOSs-fed rats by measuring cortical neuronal responses to NMDA using in vivo NMDA micro-iontophoresis electrophysiology and performance in the attentional set-shifting task.

Adult male rats were supplemented with B-GOSs in the drinking water 3 weeks prior to in vivo iontophoresis or behavioural testing.

Cortical neuronal responses to NMDA iontophoresis were greater  30 in B-GOSs adminis- tered rats compared to non-supplemented controls.

Burnet.attentional set-shifting task B-GOSs -fed rats shifted from an intra-dimensional to an extra- dimensional set in fewer trials than controls thereby indicating greater cognitive flexibility.

