demonstrated that the rumen of muskoxen ovibos moschatus reached minimal temperatures of 31.4c 35.7cevaluate the effect of pequi oil supplementation and incubation temperature on ch4 production and the ruminal microbiota in a rusitec rumen simulation technique system.materials and methodsthe donor cow was cared for in accordance with the guidelines of the german animal welfare act approved by the lower saxony state office for consumer protection and food safety laves approval number az 33.4-42505-04-13a373.experimental design and treatmentsin vitro ruminal fermentation was conducted using a rusitec unit to evaluate the effect of incubation temperature and dietary fatty acids from pequi caryocar brasiliense on the rumen microbiota and methane production.

previous batch culture incubations in our research group indicated that pequi caryocar brasiliense oil used at 1 vv can reduce ch4 production by up to 74 unpublished data.microbial activity in the rumen is known to be affected by dietary additives   but information related to the effect of rumen temperature andor incubation temperature on methane production is scarce.

when incubation temperature was returned to 39c on d 22 ch4 production was still lower p  0.01 than the initial 39c incubation period day 8-14. dm disappearance was greater p  0.01 during the 8-14 days incubation period and was diminished when the temperature was reduced to 35c and through to the end of the experiment .there was a tendency p 0.10 toward lower ph at 35c compared to the last period at 39c 6.76 vs. 6.78 and pequi oil supplementation decreased p 0.03 ph compared to the control 6.74 vs. 6.78. the redox potential was not affected by pequi oil addition but was lower p  0.01 during the 22-28 days period 39c compared to other time periods.

in terms of methanogens overall there were three genera identified all with a relative abundance of less than 0.1 methanobrevibacter 0.09 methanomicrobium 0.01 and methanosphaera 0.0008. however in the original rumen solid sample methanobrevibacter comprised 14.6 of the total microbial population.effect of pequi oil sample typeand incubation temperature on archaeal and bacterial diversity and microbiota structurethere was greater archaeal and bacterial diversity and richness in the sam samples compared with the lam samples based on the alpha-diversity metrics listed in p  0.05. alpha-diversity analysis also suggested that a temperature effect was present only in the lam samples as lam samples incubated at 39c had a higher shannon diversity value and greater phylogenetic diversity p  0.01. the addition of pequi oil had no effect on any of the diversity or richness metrics for either lam or sam samples.

 edited byantonio faciola university of nevada renounited statesreviewed bymatias jose aguerre clemson university united statesclaudia arndt environmental defense fundunited statescorrespondence alexandre v. chaves  present addressdevin b. holman national animal disease center agricultural research service - united states department of agriculture ames ia united statesspecialty section this article was submitted to systems microbiologya section of the journal frontiers in microbiologyreceived 19 march 2017accepted 29 may 2017published 28 june 2017citationduarte ac holman db alexander tw kiri k breves g and chaves av 2017 incubation temperature but not pequi oil supplementation affects methane production and the ruminal microbiota in a rumen simulation technique rusitec system.front.

in justification for this experiment the reduction of the rumen temperature in vivo could be similarly achieved through the introduction of a specific device into the rumen which could adjust rumen temperature.

this would allow for further evaluation of decreased rumen temperature on rumen fermentation and production parameters.high-throughput sequencing of the archaeal and bacterial16s rrna gene revealed that the addition of pequi oil to the rusitec system did not alter the ruminal microbiota.

the two treatments consisted of a control diet con no pequi oil inclusion and a diet supplemented with pequi oil 1.5 mlday which increased the dietary fat content to 6 dm-basis.plant componentpequi oil was selected to supplement the diets because of its high proportion of unsaturated fatty acids   which have been reported to be effective in reducing ch4 production without compromising diet digestibility and hence milk production in dairy cattle  .substrate and rumen inoculumthe substrate consisted of hayconcentrate 66.733.3 ww .

the lack of effect of pequi oil could be related to the relatively small concentration of pequi oil used in relationto the total volume of the fermenter 1.5 ml pequi oil820 ml fermenter.

following the initial 24 h incubation period the bag with the rumen digesta rumen solids was replaced with a nylon bag containing the substrate and after 48 hours the bags were replaced each day.

after an incubation step at 60c for 10 min nh3 concentration was determined photometrically at 546 nm in a spectrometer du 640 beckman coulter gmbh krefeld germany using a nh4cl standard solution 5 mm.dna extraction and illumina sequencing of the archaeal and bacterial 16s rrna gene16s rrna gene sequencing was used to analyze the archaeal and bacterial communities of the original rumen fluid and digesta rumen solids as well as the lam liquid-associated microbes and sam solid-associated microbes samples taken at the end of every experimental period day 14 21 and 28. total genomic dna was extracted from each sample using a qiaamp fast dna stool mini kit qiagen according to manufacturer's instructions with a lysis temperature of 80c.

the aim of this study was to evaluate the combined effect of pequi oil high in unsaturated fatty acids and incubation temperature on fermentation characteristics and microbial communities using the rumen simulation technique.

ruminal cooling was often rapid -6.24cmin dropping to 27.6c within a few minutes.we hypothesized that the inclusion of pequi oil and a 4c decrease in rumen incubation temperature for 7 days would reduce ch4 emissions and alter the ruminal microbial community.

the acetatepropionate ratio was decreased p 0.04 with the addition of pequi oil following the adaptation period day 1-7. ammonia production was also lower p  0.01 at the 35c day 15-22 incubation temperature compared to 39c but was not affected by pequi oil supplementation.rumen microbiota in the rusitec systemthere was a total of 1400917 16s rrna gene sequences with an average length of 262 bp following quality filtering.

only 20 otus were differentially abundant between the pequi oil 13 otus and control 7 otus samples supplementary table s3.discussionone of the strategies for lowering enteric methane emissions in ruminants has been the supplementation of diets with fatty acids due to their ability to decrease available organic matter fermented in the rumen reduce methanogen activity and protozoal populations  .

