kcnq4 is a crucial channel required at the end of the mechanoelectrical trans- duction cycle 41. absence of kcnq4 may result in deafness and thus dfna3 gene analysis may contribute to an early indication of pediatric cochlear implantation 42. the same is true for usher gene analyses 43 allowing an early indication of ci application to prepare for communication skills in cases of expected blind deafness 44. gene mutations of cyp1b1 and ltbp2 are associated with congenital glaucomas 45 mutations of myoc optn and wdr36 are associated with primary glaucomas allowing genetic analyses to better predict disease probability 45 46. the genomics of neovascular retinal diseases including the genes htra1 and arms2 may contribute to an early diagnosis.

kit braf and nras may be instrumental to identify individual biomarkers for the application of imatinib and related tkis for the treatment of c-kit-mutated metastases 11 12. vemu- rafenib is another tki that may be applied in braf-v600e-mutated and braf-v600k-mu- tated malignant melanomas 13. erlotinib and gefitinib can be used in specific epidermal growth factor receptor egfr mutation-positive bronchial carcinomas 14 because the tyrosine kinase part of the egfr may be mutated in 10 of the caucasian and in 30 of the asian population 15. in the presence of these tumor markers tumor control rate may be increased to 90 accompanied by an increase in the survival time to 27 months 16-19. interestingly efficacy may be enhanced by an additional fgfr fibroblast growth factor receptor by influencing the rate of apoptosis.

this includes the specific hedgehog protein encoded by the tcth1 gene as a biomarker and the smoothened protein the relevant biomarker gene is the smo gene 25. in the presence of mutations a hedgehog protein inhi- bition using small molecules may be indicated 26-29. despite highly complex omex- dependent biomarker-based prediction methods targeted tumor therapies may fail.

moreover animal experiments introducing the normal gene sequence into retinal ganglion cells and clinical trials provided convincing evidence of an effective gene therapy 51. furthermore for cases of pediatric retinal degeneration with an rpe65 gene mutation a genomics-based gene therapy has been developed.

ten percent of caucasian females possess a cyp2d6 gene defect resulting in a reduced drug efficacy 4. this result may be strongly influenced by the gene source.

genetic alterations may induce tyrosine kinase deformations being a molecular key mech- anism of the transformation of normal cells into malignant cells 6. thus tyrosine kinaseinhibitorstkis may be useful tools for a targeted tumor therapy.

the basic prereq- uisite however is the presence of the untruncated receptor and of the wild-type egfrk-ras protein a g-protein which is cross talking with the egfr which quite frequently is not the case 20-23. thus the challenge consists in the identification of patients with truncated egfr and mutated egfrk-ras proteins as biomarkers to exclude these patients from an inappropriate antibody treatment 24. as a result treatment costs may be reduced because the expensive treatment may be restricted to the biomarker-selected patients.

as an example the antibody trastuzumab herceptin may be useful for the treatment of breast tumors carrying her2 gene expression errors 7. imatinib inhibits a different tyrosine kinase i.e.

in contrast to conventional chemotherapy with a 5 clinical response rate in biomarker-positive gastrointestinal stromal tumors imatinib may increase the response rate up to 50 9 10. in malignant mucosal melanomas multiple gene sequencing e.g.

egfr gene alterations 30 or spontaneous mutations of proto-oncogenes may also influence the therapeutic activity of gefitinib and erlotinib 31 32. biomarker-based treatment indi- vidualization exists also for nononcological therapy.

targeted gene capture and next-gener- ation sequencing technologies play an increasing role in sensorineural hearing loss 36. they may support the indication for very early pediatric cochlear implants.

in cases of a pediatric auditory neuropathy the otof gene may be instrumental because otof encodes the hair cell protein otoferlin.

it resulted in an increase in the child's quality of life 52 53. using gene correction a similar breakthrough in genomics-based gene therapy is expected for duchenne muscular dystrophy 54-56. presently genome analytical methods for application in ophthalmology are being further developed 57 58.disclosure statementthe author denies any conflict of interest that influences or biases his work.references 1 friedrich b heitz u kroemer k bieber t dietel m ertl g gethmann cf hallek m hecker m joerden jc koller k lengauer t loffler m lohse mj oberender p propping p puhler a stingl g taupitz j zenner hp indi- vidualized medicine.

gene ther 201320274-282.seto jt ramos jn muir l chamberlain js odom gl gene replacement therapies for duchenne muscular dystrophy using adeno-associated viral vectors.

curr gene ther 201212161-178.zernant j schubert c im km burke t brown cm fishman ga tsang sh gouras p dean m allikmets r analysis of the abca4 gene by next-generation sequencing.

